14-05-2020||Lucknow||UP to offer industrial townships to firms exiting China and coming to state||Industrial development minister Satish Mahana on Thursday said the state was working on a multi-pronged strategy to turn the Covid-19 adversity into an opportunity to boost industrial growth.“To attract foreign companies looking to shift their manufacturing base from China to India, more specifically to Uttar Pradesh, the UP government will offer them their own industrial townships where their people will live with all the facilities,” said Mahana.He said that the state government has identified 100 to 300 acres of land in different parts of the state for such industrial townships. “For instance, if Japan wishes, it can have a township—a Japan away from Japan--where their people can have residential colonies, complexes and schools etc,” Mahana said to reporters here.He was referring to the UP government’s preparations for aiding Japanese, South Korean and US companies, which wish to shift their manufacturing base from China and come to UP.Mahana said his department was doing meticulous homework and it had prepared a note on all the things that India imports from China--from electrical machinery, nuclear reactors, builders, to man-made filament, footwear and fabrics etc.“From April 2019 to January 2020, India imported different categories of goods worth US $57.93 billion. Now, the country is looking to make ‘local’ the motto as PM Modi has said and we are trying to bring as much as possible of this to UP,” said Mahana.“UP’s industrial revival is returning on track and will soon speed up,” he said.Mahana said that after making a helpdesk for US, Japanese and South Korean companies, the state government would tell them that 150-acre land is available near Auraiyya and 100 acres in the Kanpur-Unnao industrial area.UP TOO MULLING ‘SWADESHI’ ONLYMahana said after the union home ministry’s announcement that the para-military forces’ canteens would now sell only ‘swadeshi’ goods to the staff, his department would ask various departments concerned in UP to have only India brands and no foreign multi-national brands at the UP government’s canteens.‘UP WAS FIRST’ The minister said that the state government was the first to take welfare decisions related to migrants, ration distribution, sustenance allowances when the Covid-19 lockdown came into force.And now, when PM Modi had talked about ‘life and livelihood both’, the UP government will take the lead in industrial revival, he said.“Our strategy for industrial revival and growth is three-pronged. One, to revive and revitalise the existing industries. Two, to give an impetus to industries in the pipeline (such as for those MoUs were signed at global investors’ summit and groundbreaking ceremony). A total of 370 companies, who had signed MoUs have done bhumi-pujan, while 150 had started commercial production. Third to have new companies, whether Indian or foreign, come to UP.” INFRA, AGRI BASE, WATER RESOURCESThe minister said UP had good infrastructure, agricultural base, and good surface and underground water resources for industries.He talked about the new steps that the state government took for promoting logistics parks and warehousing in UP.“We are now offering land to them at only 1.5 times of the industrial rates instead of very high commercial rates. It’s an irresistible offer,” he said.CAPITAL INVESTMENT-BASED INCENTIVESMahana said concessions that the state government would offer to new industries/investments might be capital investment-based instead of GST based.“Quite often, the concessions/incentives based on GST rates lead to confusion and anomalies because different kinds of industries have different GST rates. So instead, the concessions/incentive in UP might become based on the total capital invested.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-to-offer-industrial-townships-to-firms-exiting-china-and-coming-to-state/story-jeBKodxUMUkyv4AkqDxlFM.html
14-05-2020||Chandigarh||Patiala man held for concocting car-jacking, Rs 10 lakh robbery||Police have arrested a 55-year-old road contractor, Daleep Singh Dhillon, for cheating after he concocted a car-jacking and robbery incident on Zirakpura-Rajpura road on Wednesday night. Dhillon had lodged the false complaint to get even with his friend, Surinder Pal Singh, who had left him stranded on the roadside while returning from Rajpura, police say.Rajpura DSP Akashdeep Singh Aulakh said, “Both of them had gone together from Patiala to Zirakpur in a Scorpio SUV (PB-12-Z-0046) that Surinder owns. While returning, they drank, and entered into an argument over a money matter. Surinder stopped the car and left Dhillon stranded in the dead of the night, around 1.30am. Dhillon then concocted the story of the carjacking of his Innova and Rs 10 lakh robbery.” The DSP added that in his complaint, Dhillon mentioned the registration number of Surinder’s Scorpio as that of belonging to the miscreants. Aulakh added Dhillon was caught while he was trying to hide the Innova that he had complained, was snatched from him. A case has been registered under Sections 420 (cheating), 182 (false information), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the IPC and under the Disaster Management Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/patiala-man-held-for-concocting-car-jacking-rs-10-lakh-robbery/story-1V0gC0UfzVDNilfdyU42PJ.html
14-05-2020||Chandigarh||Former Haryana MLA arrested in liquor theft case||A former two-time MLA and the Jannayak Janta Party’s candidate from Kalayat constituency in last assembly election, Satvinder Singh Rana, has been arrested in Chandigarh on the charges of liquor theft from a sealed godown in Panipat’s Samalkha.Panipat superintendent of police (SP) Manisha Chaudhary said the former Rajaund legislator was arrested from MLAs hostel in Chandigarh’s Sector 3 on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday by a team led by deputy superintendent of police (DSP) (crime) Rajesh Phogat.She said he was nabbed for his involvement in a liquor theft case and produced in a Panipat court on Thursday, which sent him in two-day police remand.As per police officials associated with the investigation, Rana was arrested on the disclosure of the people arrested in connection with this case earlier.“They said Rana is one of the partners in the godown, which the excise department had in 2016 sealed for stocking liquor illegally,” an official, who was not authorised to speak with media, said.The action was taken on an April 28 complaint by assistant excise and taxation officer Rajesh Rohila about the theft of 4,500 cases of liquor worth Rs 85 lakh from the sealed warehouse.Acting on the complaint, the Panipat police had on May 11 arrested six people, who gave away the name of Rana.In 2018, a theft was also reported at the same godown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/former-haryana-mla-arrested-in-liquor-theft-case/story-9pIrTNByIyfEGCa0C4rrSJ.html
14-05-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s Covid recovery rate rises to 24.33% from 20.55% after change in testing protocol||The city’s coronavirus recovery rate has improved to 24.33% from 20.55% in the past 15 days. As per the data released by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), the number of patients discharged on May 1 was 1,567, which shot up to 3,791 as on May 13. The civic body has attributed the rise in the recovery rate to its revised testing and discharge policy. According to civic officials, mild and moderate patients do not need to be tested before discharge from the hospital anymore. Additional municipal commissioner (health) Suresh Kakani said, “This is one of the reasons but with our rigorous screening and testing method, we are identifying Covid positive patients at an early stage, which is helping in their speedy recovery. X-rays and CT scans have also helped in the early detection of coronavirus patients. Recently, we have started to administer the Itolizumab drug and the results have been encouraging.”On May 8, BMC had revised its discharge policy. Mild, very mild and pre-symptomatic cases will be sent to hospitals for regular temperature checks and pulse oximetry monitoring. The patient will be discharged after 10 days of the onset of the symptom and if fever is not developed for three days. Earlier, patients have had to test negative twice prior to discharge. At the time of discharge, the patient will be advised to follow home isolation for seven days. Dr Avinash Bhondwe, health expert and president of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Maharashtra, said, “These are recovered patients not cured. In fact, change in the policy was made to make more beds available, considering a future outbreak.”When asked about the impact of this policy, Bhondwe said, “There is one risk; the civic authority has to follow up with every discharged patient every day for the next seven days. If it fails to do so then the chances of the infection spreading is high.”Meanwhile, the state has a recovery rate of 21.39% from 16.33%, with 5,547 patients having been cured and discharged until May 13, as compared to the 1,879 patients who had been discharged until May 1. According to the state health department data, the recovery rate is highest in cities such as Mumbai and Pune, which also have the highest number of cases in the state. Of the total 5,547 patients who have recovered in Maharashtra, 3,959 are from Mumbai and Pune alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-covid-recovery-rate-rises-to-24-33-from-20-55-after-change-in-testing-protocol/story-7g0dYdImNi6bTP9TaiLUTI.html
14-05-2020||City||Ghaziabad CMO asks private hospitals to restart emergency services, Covid cases jump to 169||The chief medical officer (CMO) of Ghaziabad has written to 110 private hospitals and also to the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Ghaziabad, urging them to immediate restart emergency services. This came after he and other officials attended a video conference with Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday. Officials of the health department said restarting emergency services would take the load off the government hospitals that are presently taking up non-Covid emergency services at MMG Hospital and the Women’s Hospital in Ghaziabad.“We have asked all 110 private hospitals to restart emergency services with immediate effect as their nodal officers have been provided training under the Infection Prevention and Control Protocol (IPC). This will take the load off government hospitals and also help non-Covid patients. The nodal officers of private hospitals have been asked to further train their staff and resume emergency services,” CMO Dr NK Gupta said.He said while operating emergency services, the doctors and staff attending to patients are required to use N95 masks and full PPE kits.“If they do not resume emergency services, action can be initiated against hospitals. Private hospitals that are empanelled under the Ayushman Bharat Yojna, the Union government’s free health care scheme, will also get a rebate of 50% on purchase of masks and PPE kits. The rest will be borne by the district industries department through which the purchase will be made,” Gupta said.The office-bearers of IMA, Ghaziabad, said most of the 110 hospitals have resumed services after they were given the IPC training.“The rest of the hospitals will start their services by the end of the week. On our part, we are also taking up training of staff and more sessions will be conducted soon. We will try to have every precaution in place when patients are brought to the emergency and tests of those undergoing surgeries will also be taken up as per protocol,” Dr VB Jindal, president, IMA, Ghaziabad, said.“We have also requested the chief minister to allow us restart OPD services. For this, the government can come up with a protocol,” Dr Jindal said.Amit Mohan Prasad, principal secretary (health), Uttar Pradesh, Thursday said Adityanath has decided to extend the registration of all nursing homes by a period of six months.“The decision has been taken after a video conferencing the CM had with IMA and UP Nursing Home Association. Their representatives had also assured Adityanath that they will immediately restart emergency services,” Prasad said..Meanwhile, the number of cases in Ghaziabad on Thursday — as per state control room for integrated disease surveillance program, directorate of health services, UP —stood at 169, with the district recording 24 cases since Wednesday — highest single day spike for the district so far.The office of district magistrate, Ajay Shankar Pandey, had not released daily figures of cases till late Thursday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-cmo-asks-private-hospitals-to-restart-emergency-services-covid-cases-jump-to-169/story-MEZyNgBnxNxUm7szbWcx3O.html
14-05-2020||Chandigarh||Will issue e-passes within 30 minutes for interstate travel: Haryana to Delhi HC||Following an undertaking given by the Haryana government that e-passes for inter-state movement of all persons engaged in providing essential services, including medical professionals, will be issued within 30 minutes of the receipt of application, the Delhi High Court on Thursday disposed of a public interest litigation (PIL). Each e-pass will be valid for the entire duration of the lockdown and can be used for multiple visits, the state government told the HC.The PIL had sought court directions to stop Haryana government from restricting interstate movement of medical professionals. “The aforesaid undertakings are taken on record and the Haryana government is held bound by the same. In the event of breach of any of the undertakings, the petitioner shall be at liberty to file appropriate legal proceedings against the officials of the state government in accordance with the law,” said a Delhi HC bench comprising Justice Manmohan and Justice Sanjeev Narula.Haryana’s additional advocate general Anil Grover gave a slew of undertakings in the court on Thursday.The undertakings included allowing free movement of trucks carrying essential and non-essential goods between Delhi and Haryana (except in containment zones).“Trucks transiting through Haryana will also be allowed. The Delhi-Haryana border will be kept open and manned by security personnel. Movement of essential service providers as mentioned in orders issued by the central government, including private doctors, nurses, paramedics, sanitation workers, staff of Delhi Police, Delhi Transport Corporation, Delhi Jal Board, municipal corporations, high courts and trial courts among others, will be allowed on production of e-passes. These commuters will not be quarantined unless they test positive for Covid-19 or are found to have come in contact with Covid-19 patient,” Grover said.The state government had taken a stand that since about 56% of the coronavirus cases in the national capital region (NCR) districts — Gurugram, Faridabad, Jhajjar and Sonepat — had Delhi link, it will allow back and forth movement of medical professionals from Delhi only on production of movement passes.Taking up the PIL, the HC had on May 8 said that orders of the Sonepat district magistrate restraining the movement of doctors, nurses, court officials and trucks from Delhi to Sonepat constituted an infringement of the constitutional provisions.The ministry of home affairs (MHA) had on May 11 asked the states to ensure that interstate movement of medical professionals, nurses, paramedics was facilitated. The directions came after the issue of restrictions being imposed by some states, including Haryana, was flagged during a meeting between the cabinet secretary and the state governments on Sunday.“Ensuring unhindered movement of medical professionals is essential for meeting public health requirements and saving human lives,” union home secretary Ajay Bhalla had said to the state governments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/will-issue-e-passes-within-30-minutes-for-interstate-travel-haryana-to-delhi-hc/story-7oURPZFYPfjoyCVMIFCaKN.html
14-05-2020||Chandigarh||Curfew relaxations: Was MHA rulebook followed, high court asks Chandigarh administration||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday gave the Chandigarh administration a day to apprise it of whether relaxations given by it were in line with the Union ministry of home affairs’ (MHA) guidelines.“..Prima-facie certain conflict/dichotomy between the orders passed by the Chandigarh administration and ministry of home affairs guidelines are observed…,” the bench of chief justice RS Jha and justice Arun Palli observed, giving UT’s senior standing counsel Pankaj Jain one day to examine issues raised in the petition with regards to violation of MHA guidelines and inform the high court on Friday. The court was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by advocate Pankaj Chandgothia, who has sought quashing of UT’s May 3 order relaxing the curfew up to May 17. UT had imposed the curfew on March 23 and ended it on May 3 at a time when the city was seeing a spike in the number of Covid-19 cases and was retained in the Centre’s red zone list. The total number of cases have since reached close to 200, with more than 50% being reported post May 3. City’s first case was reported on March 18.Jain reasoned that now with the passage of time more relaxations were being granted. However, the court was not convinced with his argument. The court also sought to know about the guidelines from additional solicitor general, Satya Pal Jain, who elaborated these, and informed the court that it may examine whether there is a violation, but MHA guidelines issued under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, cannot be diluted in any manner and are to be enforced strictly.THE PETITIONThe court was told that the MHA guidelines expressly prohibited opening of all market complexes, but UT adopted its own definition and allowed market complexes on the central roads of each sector to resume business. MHA has only allowed standalone shops and neighbourhood shops in colonies, and all malls and market complexes had to remain closed, the court was told.The ministry’s guidelines also prohibit inter-state movement, except for emergency purposes, but UT has allowed entry of all.It also misconstrued the definition of containment zone. As per MHA guidelines, containment zone will be a residential colony, municipal ward or police station, town, etc. However, UT has six containment zones with ambiguous boundaries, Chandgothia informed the court, adding that till May 3, the entire city was a containment zone. He also questioned why all categories of shops were allowed to be opened even as the city fell in the red zone and why shops were open during a wide window of 10am to 6pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/curfew-relaxations-was-mha-rulebook-followed-high-court-asks-chandigarh-administration/story-DOTvo2hGe3WAgdXDuJ7A2N.html
14-05-2020||Mumbai||Shift patients to CCCs in other wards if required, says civic chief as BMC starts increasing bed capacity||On Thursday, the city recorded a new highest single-day count of Covid-19 positive cases, as 991 individuals tested positive for the novel coronavirus, taking the total number of cases in Mumbai to 16,738, according to data from the Maharashtra health department. Mumbai also recorded 25 deaths on Thursday, taking the toll to 621. According to data from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), Mumbai recorded 998 new cases on Thursday, of which 364 are of patients who tested positive in various private laboratories on May 11 and May 12. Explaining the difference in BMC and state figures, a civic official said, “There may be a different cutoff time at which entries must have been taken from the portal.”Of the 25 deaths (18 men and seven women), 16 victims had co-morbidities. Fourteen deaths were of people above 60 years; 10 victims were between the ages of 40 and 60, and one person below 40 years succumbed to the virus. Mumbai’s mortality is now at 3.7%.Dharavi on Thursday recorded 33 new Covid-19 patients, and two deaths, taking the total number of positive cases for the area to 1,061, alongside 49 deaths. Seven additional deaths were also recorded in Dharavi the same day, of patients who died on different dates, but were reported as Covid-19 patients to the respective ward office on Thursday.Scaling beds at quarantine facilities for high-risk contactsWith a renewed focus on shifting high-risk contacts of Covid-19 patients to institutional quarantine facilities, especially those living in slums and congested pockets, BMC is now looking to scale the availability of quarantine beds in category-1 Covid care centres (CCC-1). At present, BMC has a total of over 23,100 CCC-1 beds across 260 odd facilities, of which 10,237 beds are occupied. On Saturday, municipal commissioner IS Chahal directed all ward officers to intensify tracing of high-risk contacts in Mumbai up to 10 persons per Covid-positive patient, up from the present average of three. He also directed officers to improve coordination with adjoining wards to use their CCC1 facilities, if any ward is nearing its full capacity for quarantine beds.Wards with large slum populations and numerous cluster cases in containment areas have been moving hundreds of high-risk contacts to institutional quarantine facilities.In Dharavi, 35% of the total cases reported were among high-risk contacts of positive patients. A senior civic official said, “One of the ways forward is large-scale institutional quarantining of contacts who live in slums and congested areas. Beyond containing the area, high-risk people also need to be shifted out to ensure minimum spread of the virus. Such areas have small homes, single rooms shared by four to five people, community toilets.” Wards such as the G North (Dharavi, Dadar, Mahim), has over 2,450 CCC1 beds, of which 718 are presently occupied. BMC has traced 6,496 high-risk contacts of 1,036 cases in Dharavi, as of Wednesday, and institutionally quarantined 5,857 residents through the course of one month.“Our focus is to scale up beds capacity in existing facilities, as it is faster. We already have a setup of doctors, nurses, and arrangements for food. In my ward, I have identified Mahim Nature Park which will accommodate at least 650 odd beds,” said Dighavkar.E ward has used 378 beds as of Tuesday, nearing its total CCC-1 bed capacity. A civic official from the ward said, “Our doubling rate has gone up to 14 days (as of Tuesday), from eight or nine days. Now the cases per day are coming down to 15 -30. The situation is improving due to contact tracing measures.” Makarand Dagadkhair, assistant commissioner from E ward, said on Tuesday, “Around 80% of the cases are from pockets with community toilets, slums, and chawls. We are still increasing our contact tracing efforts, door-to-door screening, and containment policy.”In H East ward (Bandra East), which has around 800 CCC1 beds, 90% of them are occupied by high-risk contacts. However, assistant commissioner of the H/E ward, Ashok Khairnar said, “I’m scaling up beds at CCC1 to reach 1,100 in the next two days. We have already identified the locations.”M East ward, which has the large slum pockets of Govandi and Mankhurd, has the highest number of CCC1 beds among the 24 wards. The institutional quarantine facilities have 4,000 beds, of which only around 750 are currently occupied.Scaling beds for mild-symptomatic and asymptomatic patients In a press release on Thursday, BMC said it is also scaling up bed capacity for CCC-2 centres, where patients who are asymptomatic or show mild symptoms, are quarantined. CCC-2 bed capacity has been expanded to 34,329 across 241 facilities. BMC hopes to decongest hospitals by scaling up these facilities.Many CCC-2 have been upgraded to have oxygen outlets and ICU facilities. This includes the Mithaghar school in Mulund which has 10 ICU beds and NSCI dome at Worli with 70 ICU beds. The CCC-2 at MMRDA grounds in Bandra Kurla Complex will have 1000 beds and the Nesco exhibition centre at Goregaon will be equipped with 1,240 beds.Beds for non-Covid patients BMC has freed up 7,500 beds to treat patients suffering from illnesses other than Covid-19, across tertiary and peripheral municipal hospitals of the city. A total of 3,539 beds have been made available at Sion hospital (1,278 beds); KEM Hospital (1,711 beds), and Cooper Hospital (550 beds).Mumbai’s 18 peripheral hospitals have a total of 3,076 beds and 28 maternity homes have 899 beds for non-Covid patients. Those with illnesses not related to the coronavirus, who have difficulty accessing healthcare, can get help via BMC’s helpline 1916.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/shift-patients-to-cccs-in-other-wards-if-required-says-civic-chief-as-bmc-starts-increasing-bed-capacity/story-HkNuEQOVLnV1esDpess2yO.html
14-05-2020||Mumbai||Researchers at IISER develop low-cost ventilator||Researchers at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), Pune, have developed a low-cost mechanical ventilator —a hybrid version of a ventilator developed in US and Italy — to bridge the demand-supply gap owing to the Covid-19 outbreak.Developing cheap ventilators is important as per a recent paper by the Centre for Disease Dynamics, Economics and Policy that has estimated that India has approximately 1.9 million hospitals beds, 95,000 ICU beds and 48,000 ventilators. Most beds and ventilators are concentrated in Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Telangana and Kerala.“Critical Covid patients need a ventilator that is slightly more advanced in terms of features and usability,” said Umakant D Rapol, associate professor, physics department, IISER. “We have kept the ventilator simple yet efficient by incorporating design requirements and almost all functionalities that a doctor requires to treat patients,” he addedStating that the prototype costs between Rs 30,000-40,000, Sunil Nair, associate professor, physics department, IISER, said the ventilator has been tested for about half a million cycles in the laboratory. The advanced full-fledged version of the ventilator — it is a microprocessor-based system — will be ready in two weeks following which the team will collaborate with clinicians for evaluation and mass production.The idea to develop the ventilator was an offshoot of another project initiated by the institute’s international office. “When we were asked to help in designing and development of a mechanical ventilator, known as the Bharucha ventilator in which we are still involved, we realised that it was a very basic machine that would not suffice for the use of Covid-19 patients,” said Nair. “We also got to know about a couple of open-source ventilators that were released — Mechanical Ventilator Milano and another one by the University of Florida. This got us thinking about how we could implement the ventilators in the Indian context.” Having zeroed in on the two designs, the team comprising professors, a technical officer along with two former students pursuing their studies in Canada and Denmark started building the prototype on April 2. “We ended up designing a hybrid version, which meets most of the specifications of the US and Italian models, with our materials. It was difficult to obtain many components due to the lockdown,” said Rapol. “The ventilator can be locally manufactured without relying on imported components,” he added. Essentially, the prototype comprises three primary modes of operation such as continuous positive airway pressure with different parameters (breaths per minute, for instance) delivered to the patient that can be chosen by the operator from the front screen.Working on compressed air from the hospital or a dedicated compressor that provides clean air, the ventilator is also equipped with an additional self-assisted mode — the machine supports breathing which is initiated by the patient based on appropriate upper or lower air pressure triggers that are set by the operator. Researchers said one can remotely control and monitor the parameters of both the ventilator and the patient. One can also use a single computer to interact with many similar ventilators in a hospital, and monitor various parameters on a mobile phone. Tarun Souradeep, professor and chair physics at the institute, said, “Building this low-cost ventilator is a good initiative since they have used their capabilities of building instruments, which is rare in science departments because experimentalists are largely used to running expensive instruments that are purchased for laboratories.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/researchers-at-iiser-develop-low-cost-ventilator/story-fI1UQsQAuNslAlqE8IYbeP.html
14-05-2020||City||Gurugram tally reaches 170, vegetable vendor among new cases||Gurugram: Four new coronavirus (Covid-19) cases were reported on Thursday in Gurugram, taking the tally to 170. As many as 103 persons have been admitted in different hospitals and 67 have recovered in the district.According to the district health bulletin, two cases from Palam Vihar and one case each from sectors 53 and 57 were reported. Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, the chief medical officer of Gurugram, said, “A vegetable seller from Sector 53, who had links with Delhi’s Azadpur mandi has tested positive for Covid-19. In addition, a bank employee living in Sector 57, who was in contact with a colleague who had tested positive earlier this week, is among the latest cases. Also, two people from Palam Vihar, who came in contact with a critical Covid-19 patient, have also tested positive for the Sars-Cov-2.” Till now, the district health department has taken samples of at least 9,040 people, out of which 8,660 have tested negative for Sars-Cov-2 virus. Test results are awaited for 210 samples and 54 people are under surveillance at the quarantine facility in Gurugram’s Sector 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-tally-reaches-170-vegetable-vendor-among-new-cases/story-Lk8yeGwT9x9t4ZN0q98j4L.html
14-05-2020||Mumbai||BEST union threatens stir, asks staff to stay home if management fails to enure safety amid Covid-19||A union of the Brihanmumbai Electricity Supply and Transport (BEST) workers, BEST Sanyukta Kamgar Kruti Samiti (BSKKS), has given a call to the employees to stay home from Monday and not report for duties if the list of demands by the union is not accepted by the administration. This was decided after three more personnel tested positive by taking the toll of infected staff to 98 on Thursday. Worker’s union leader Shashank Rao said, BEST drivers and conductors are frontline workers during the Covid-19 crisis. Union has been repeatedly demanding protection for workers who were exposed” to the virus and alleged that the administration has done precious little. “We have waited for long and now we want all workers to be safe and stay home from Monday if the management fails to give us facilities for a safe working environment,’’ he said.BEST general manager Surendrakumar Bagde said he had not received a complaint from any worker and the undertaking was providing protection and medical care to all workers besides special allowances at work.As per BSKKS, BEST administration should provide proper quarantine and hospitalisation facilities with proper food, water, medicines, being arranged by the undertaking.BSKKS demands include comprehensive medical insurance of ₹1 crore for employee and their family members, mandatory health check-up of all employees and, a separate dedicated hospital for BEST staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/best-union-threatens-stir-asks-staff-to-stay-home-if-management-fails-to-enure-safety-amid-covid-19/story-HSS4b1xoPRIPSFZhmOv85H.html
14-05-2020||Mumbai||Public spat within BJP over legislative Council polls continues||Amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, public spat within the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over nomination of candidates to the Legislative Council has continued. After senior party leader Eknath Khadse’s allegations that the state leadership betrayed him and other Other Backward Class (OBC) leaders, which was followed by a rebuttal by party state unit chief Chandrakant Patil, another BJP leader, Ram Shinde, has expressed unhappiness about the way candidates were nominated.Shinde, former BJP minister and a ‘Dhangar’ or shepherd community leader, took to micro-blogging platform Twitter on Wednesday to taunt Patil and his former colleague Pankaja Munde. He tweeted, “In the backdrop of the legislative Council polls, BJP state chief Chandrakant Patil tweeted: Aspirants and leaders desiring legislative Council nomination will understand and learn. Pankaja Munde seems to have studied this quickly in two days (That’s why Ramesh Karad got nomination). Others and I could not manage it.”Shinde’s jibe was aimed at state BJP’s last minute decision to switch one of the four candidates wherein the party dropped Dr Ajit Gopchade and gave Karad, considered close to Munde, a ticket instead. The move has raised several eyebrows within the party. As opposed to Munde, Shinde is considered to be close to former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. On Thursday, Shinde said, “I was keen on nomination to legislative Council, and as I have tweeted, I failed to study well while Munde managed to get a nomination for Karad.” He indicated that Munde used pressure tactics to get the ticket as she had earlier tweeted that she was learning to start from zero again, as a signal to party leadership.Munde did not comment on the issue.BJP state unit chief Chandrakant Patil has made it clear that the Central leadership was opposed to giving council poll tickets to anyone who had lost state Assembly polls. Both Munde and Shinde had lost in the Assembly polls held in October.Earlier, Khadse had slammed Fadnavis for side-lining OBC leaders like himself and stabbing him in the back. Patil had then retorted saying Khadse had forgotten the many opportunities that the party gave him, including chance to contest Assembly polls seven times, two term MP nomination to his daughter-in-law, an MLC nomination to his son earlier, nomination to his daughter to contest 2019 Assembly polls etc.Thackeray, 8 others declared elected unopposed, to take oath on MondayChief minister Uddhav Thackeray and eight others were announced as unopposed elected members of the legislative Council on Thursday. The nine members will take oath at Vidhan Bhavan on Monday. Besides Thackeray, Shiv Sena leader and deputy chairman of the legislative Council Neelam Gorhe; BJP’s Ramesh Karad, Gopichand Padalkar, Pravin Datke, Ranjitsinh Mohite Patil; NCP’s Shashikant Shinde and Amol Mitkari; and Congress’s Rajesh Rathod have been elected as members in 78-member upper house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/public-spat-within-bjp-over-legislative-council-polls-continues/story-JLC0WUJO21nIncm3rVLPdP.html
14-05-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Five wards in Mumbai cross 1,000-case mark||Five of the 24 administrative wards in the city have reported more than 1,000 positive cases of Covid-19, according to figures from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) as of Wednesday.The wards include G-North (Dharavi, Dadar, Mahim), which has the most number of cases at 1,316, followed by G-South (Worli, Prabhadevi) with 1,206 cases, E (Byculla, Mumbai Central) with 1,085 cases, K-West (Andheri W, Oshiwara) with 1,026 cases and F-North (Wadala, Matunga, Antop Hill ) with 1,008 cases.The average growth rate for new cases as of Tuesday in all 24 wards is 6.7%. However, T ward which includes Mulund has the highest growth rate at 18.5%, followed by R-North ward that covers Dahisar and parts of Borivli, where the growth rate is 11.9%, and B ward that covers Dongri and Masjid Bunder has a 9.9% growth rate. T, R-North and B ward take less than eight days for the cases to double.Although their growth rate is highest, the four wards have seen the lowest number of cases in the city.The growth rate for the five wards that have the highest number of cases is 6.6% for G-North, 4.4% for G-South, 6.9% for E, 6.2% for K-W and 8% for F-N ward. Further, nine wards have the doubling rate between 8-10 days, while the remaining wards have doubling rate of 10 days or more.Excluding the top five wards that have more than 1,000 cases, in seven wards, the number of cases is more than 500. The wards include L (Kurla; 942), H-E (Bandra E, Santacruz East; 859), M-E (Mankhurd, Deonar; 771), K-E (Andheri East, Saki Naka; 744), D (Malabar Hill, Grant Road, Chowpatty; 563), FS (Parel, Sewri; 557), MW (Chembur; 511). The remaining wards have less than 500 cases.According to the BMC’s data, as of Tuesday, 1,27,000 tests have been conducted, wherein 11.60% have tested positive. More than 15,000 patients have been screened in 321 fever clinics across the city where swabs of 4,584 citizens were taken, of which 392 tested positive.Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner of G-North ward which covers Dharavi, said, “We have been screening more people in Dharavi. We have also remapped the containment zones, and are also engaging with community leaders to curtail the movement of residents. So far, 734 of the total 1,028 patients from Dharavi are treated here only. Of the 1,316 patients, 393 have been discharged. We have a recovery rate of 29%.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-five-wards-in-mumbai-cross-1-000-case-mark/story-9VOJSblHv47rPsCKUbcVcM.html
14-05-2020||City||35-year-old man arrested for killing live-in partner||A 35-year-old man was arrested on Thursday for allegedly killing his live-in partner in Swarn Nagri area in Greater Noida. The police said the suspect, identified as Sumit (single name), who worked at a paying guest facility in Delhi, confessed to killing the victim, Pinki Kumari, 32, after they had an argument. The victim wanted to start her own business and had asked Sumit to finance it which led to an argument between the two, they added.According to the police, Kumari, who was from Motihari in Bihar, lived in a rented flat with the suspect and his six-year-old son for the past six months. Sumit and Kumari had both separated from their spouses. Rajesh Kumar Singh, deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said on Thursday afternoon, the police nabbed Sumit near Chuharpur underpass while he was on a motorcycle. “During questioning, the suspect revealed that the woman wanted to run her own PG facility in her home town and wanted ₹5 Lakh from him. This led to an argument between them on Saturday and the suspect strangled her to death. He then fled with his son to his home town in Faridabad, Haryana,” he said.The police said Kumari’s body was recovered on Tuesday evening after local residents informed them about the foul smell coming from the flat in Swarn Nagri. “The body had started tp decay. The woman’s family members informed about the incident. We registered a case and launched a search for the suspect who was on the run,” said Sujeet Upadhyaya, station house officer, Sector Beta 2 police station.The police said Sumit was arrested from Greater Noida on Thursday. “It appears the suspect was on his way to destroy evidence. He has been booked under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code. He was produced before the court and sent to judicial custody,” Upadhyaya said.Amit Kumar, victim’s brother-in-law, said her family is inconsolable. “The family members are unable to come to Greater Noida from Bihar due to the lockdown,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/35-year-old-man-arrested-for-killing-live-in-partner/story-dFqCPPvnMkYEbOJz0QvOoL.html
14-05-2020||Gurugram||Confusion reigns as both MCG, developer hire sanitation staff for DLF areas||The residents of DLF 1, 2 and 3 have been wondering these days about who is really responsible for sanitation in their areas. The municipal corporation of Gurugram (MCG) and the area developer may not have an answer yet.On Monday, around 60 workers from a private firm hired by the MCG came for work at DLF Phase 1 but were allegedly turned away by the security guards in the area.According to DLF, they have outsourced the sanitation related works to a firm which has engaged over 200 workers for the three colonies.The three colonies have been in the process of being taken over by the MCG for maintenance since February 2016 On May 5 this year the MCG had awarded a contract to a private firm for undertaking sanitation work in the three colonies. However, as per DLF officials, they received no communication from the MCG on this matter and it was allegedly only when the workers were asked to go back on Monday that the MCG alerted the DLF regarding the matter.DLF officials said they are checking with the MCG on whether the private firm has been hired on a long-term basis for sanitation works or only temporarily to keep the areas clean in light of the coronavirus outbreak.“We received a letter from the MCG on May 11 from which we understood they too are engaging sanitation workers in DLF Phases 1, 2 and 3 to sanitise the area in a special drive to curb the spread of Covid-19. We had not not received any communication from the authorities related to taking over the three colonies before Monday, and are continuing our maintenance services as before,” said Shekhar Basu, director, DLF Estate.As per the MCG’s contract with the private firm, a copy of which is with the Hindustan Times, there is no mention of the time period for which the contract has been awarded. The contract mentions that a total of 268 workers are required to maintain sanitation operations and a monthly expenditure of around Rs 50 lakh is estimated for it.“The firm has been awarded the contract for a one-year period, after which, depending on their work, their performance will be reviewed and a decision on renewing the contract for another year will be taken,” said Bijendra Sharma, senior sanitary inspector.MCG officials, meanwhile, said that they decided to take over sanitation in the three colonies as they wanted to ensure the streets are clean, sanitised, and disinfected properly to prevent a Sars-Cov-2 outbreak here.After Monday’s communication, officials said the workers hired by the MCG returned to the localities and continued with their sanitisation works.RS Rathee, councillor of ward 34, said that the private firm hired by the MCG has initiated work in the three colonies as of Tuesday and the local resident welfare associations (RWA) of each colony are coordinating with them to get the work carried out.“The workers in the private firm hired by the MCG were unfamiliar with the surroundings. Hence I and the RWAs coordinated with them and explained to them the layout of each of the colonies. To control the Covid-19 pandemic, we want to ensure that all sanitation aspects are covered,” said Rathee.“There was confusion among residents regarding this development. Initially, the firm hired by the MCG had no clue about the areas. We subsequently briefed them and have been guiding them across the three colonies to ensure they are properly sanitised,” said Dhruv Bansal, official spokesperson of DLF Qutub Enclave RWA.As of now, both DLF and MCG are undertaking sanitation works in the three colonies, each with limited staff.In February 2016, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had announced that the three colonies, along with Sushant Lok 1 and Palam Vihar, would be taken over by the MCG.Subsequently, the developers of Sushant Lok 1 and Palam Vihar decided to pay the money required to fix civic deficiencies in their respective colonies while DLF decided to fix the deficiencies in their three colonies themselves before handing over.MCG took over Sushant Lok 1 and Palam Vihar in March last year.MCG’s deficiency assessment report in 2017 stated that ₹14.12 crore was required to fix civic deficiencies in DLF Phase 1, ₹9.43 crore for DLF Phase 2 and ₹11.89 crore for DLF Phase 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-jurisdiction-for-maintenance-in-dlf-1-2-and-3-unclear-as-mcg-sends-sanitation-workers-without-communication/story-DCRQiHZ0A6U0C8CGPI5q5M.html
14-05-2020||Mumbai||Four companies of CAPF arrive in state||A day after request by the Maharashtra government, the Centre has approved the deployment of 20 companies of Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) in the state. Four companies have already arrived and were being deployed in four cities. Sanjay Kumar, additional chief secretary, home, confirmed the development. The four companies, with 100 personnel each, have been deployed in Pune, Nashik, Aurangbad and Amravati, and will assist the state police. Companies arriving in the subsequent phase were expected to be deployed in Mumbai, especially in the containment zones. The state government on Wednesday had requested the ministry of home affairs for the additional force to relieve the state police from excessive workload.Meanwhile, principal secretary (home) Amitabh Gupta, resumed office after he was exonerated in the probe initiated for giving a letter to the Wadhawans to travel to Mahabaleshwar during the lockdown. “He was on leave during the probe and has now joined the office as he has been exonerated. The decision was taken based on a report by the probe committee. He was on leave and hence resumed his post after coming out clean,” said a senior home department officer. Gupta was sent on compulsory leave and the probe was conducted by Manoj Saunik, additional chief secretary, finance. The report stated that Gupta exceeded his jurisdiction and warned him to be cautious in future. Accused in the Yes Bank fraud case, Dheeraj and Kapil Wadhawan had travelled to Mahabaleshwar from Khadala, based on the permit issued by Gupta.45-year-old constable dies, wife recoveringA 45-year-old constable, who tested positive for Covid-19 on May 2, died on Thursday morning. The constable was posted at the Shivaji Nagar police station. His wife, who too tested positive, is being treated. The constable has an 18-year-old son and a minor daughter, both tested negative for the virus.The constable, a resident of Navi Mumbai, was frequently on patrolling duty and started showing symptoms on April 30. He was admitted to a hospital in Kalamboli, where his condition worsened. “He did not have health issues. He was very good at his work and had a jovial nature,” said Sudarshan Paithankar, senior police inspector, Shivaji Nagar police station.1,001 cases of Covid-19 in state police, nine deaths including six from MumbaiA total of 1,001 police personnel have been infected with Covid-19, of which 894 were constables and 107 were officers. About 142 of them have recovered, while the rest were under treatment. A total of nine police personnel — six from Mumbai and one each from Pune, Solapur and Nashik rural, have succumbed to the disease. All deceased were from the constabulary, including two who were promoted to assistant sub-inspector. In 1,001 cases, about 484 were from Mumbai Police, including 70 who recovered and six died. 87 FIRs, maximum in SoBo for lockdown violationA total of 87 first information reports (FIRs) were registered on Wednesday against 179 people including 100 arrests for lockdown violations. For the first time since the lockdown, a maximum of 26 FIRs was from south Mumbai followed by 24 from western region and 17 from central. A maximum of 54 FIRs was for unnecessary use of vehicles, including 21 from south Mumbai. Another 18 FIRs were for not wearing masks and 12 for gathering in one place and three against open shops. 40 booked for religious meet Over 40 people were booked for gathering for a religious activity, outside two flats at a building, in Dongri on Wednesday. When Dongri police received the information, they reached the spot and dispersed the crowd. On Wednesday, a Dongri beat Marshal-2 came to know about the incident from the control room. Accordingly, the constable reached the Banatawala building in Dongri. The flat owners Nadeem Batliwala and Shabbir Rizvi had organized the meet. The duo and around 40 others have been booked for lockdown violation. Sandeep Bhagadikar, senior police inspector, Dongri police station confirmed the incident. Gutkha worth Rs 1.30 crore seized in a week The Mumbai Police crime branch arrested seven wholesale suppliers in a week for allegedly illegally supplying gutkha and other tobacco products in the city. Gutkha products worth Rs 1.30 crore have been seized from the suppliers. Interrogation revealed that the suppliers were getting the products from Amravati in Maharashtra and Surat in Gujarat. The crime branch has sent police teams to Amravati to nab the main supplier in the state and another team will visit Surat. As tobacco products are not being sold in the market, the suppliers were selling it at four times over the actual price. To evade being caught at police checkpoints, the suppliers had been using stickers for essential goods on their trucks. (With inputs from Vijay Kumar Yadav, Faisal Tandel, Jayprakash S Naidu, Pratik Salunke and Manish K Pathak)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/four-companies-of-capf-arrive-in-state/story-ZvGYLOIqKX6Ls3X6Ua9eBO.html
14-05-2020||City||15,000 migrants got jobs or left city, says Greater Noida authority as those seeking free meals reduce||The Greater Noida authority said at least 15,000 migrant labourers have left the city or joined work as the number of those seeking free meals provided by the administration has reduced.As compared to 45,000 people being fed earlier, the authority now supplies food to about 30,000 migrant workers daily.“The others have either left for their home towns or started work at construction sites that resumed operations after the lockdown norms were relaxed on May 4,” Narendra Bhooshan, chief executive officer, Greater Noida authority, said.Since the nationwide lockdown started on May 25, the Greater Noida authority started serving food to migrant daily wage earners who were left jobless as construction sites and factories shut down. The authority had set up four kitchens -- two each in Greater Noida East and Greater Noida West -- to serve two meals daily to migrants and others.)n May 4, after the lockdown norms were eased to allow construction sites and factories to resume operations, these enterprises took back some of the jobless migrant workers. So far, the authority has allowed 524 factories and 137 construction sites to resume operations. The factories have engaged 27,704 workers and the construction sites have employed 15,527 workers, the Noida authority officials said.Officials said that the number of needy people, who avail of the free food has decreased rapidly over the past few days.“Most migrant workers want to leave the city as and when they get an opportunity and transport facilities. The work at all factories is yet to resume due to restrictions still in place. We feel that a majority of workers have left for their home towns,” Pankaj Singh, president, Greater Noida industry association, said.Construction sites are yet to start full-fledged work due to some riders in place when permission was granted by the authority.“We started work with the workers available at the site. But we are yet to sufficient number of workers, construction material and the required skilled labour to resume full-fledged operations,” RK Arora, president, National Real Estate Development Council (Uttar Pradesh), a builders’ group, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/15-000-migrants-got-jobs-or-left-city-says-greater-noida-authority-as-those-seeking-free-meals-reduce/story-LWhmDrDDlK4Wu6mcSiOoAP.html
14-05-2020||Lucknow||Prayagraj: Four of a family found dead, police claim breakthrough||The bodies of four members of a family including three women were found at their residence with their throats slashed in Preetam Nagar locality under Dhumnaganj police station on Thursday evening. Few hours later, police claimed to have cracked the murder case and said aged couple’s son gave the contract to kill his kin to some persons for Rs 8 lakh.Police officials rushed to the scene with dog squad and field unit. The CCTV footages in the vicinity were scanned to identify the culprits, police said. Reports said bodies of Tulsidas Kesarwani 65, his wife Kiran, 60, daughter Niharika 32 and daughter-in-law Priyanka 31 were found at their residence by Tulsidas’s son Atish around 3 pm. Atish runs an electrical appliances shop on the first floor of the residence and he left around 1.30 pm to the market for some work. He told the police when he returned at 3 pm lights were off on the ground floor and was shocked to find the body of his father lying in pool of blood near the counter of the shop. Bodies of his mother and sister were on the other side of the counter, he said. Atish told police he rushed upstairs where he found the body of his wife lying in one of the rooms .ADG Zone Prem Prakash and other senior officials including SSP Satyarth Anirudh Pankaj reached the spot. Prakash said locals were questioned and CCTV footages in the area were scanned to identify suspects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/prayagraj-four-of-a-family-found-dead-police-claim-breakthrough/story-jQmsSbvzKHj9I2IPI1HJxO.html
14-05-2020||City||Education department connects with students, parents for monitoring remote learning||Gurugram: The school education department of Gurugram is carrying out a survey to map the progress of students in government schools under the remote learning initiatives being run during the lockdown. As part of the monitoring process, the department has directed officers and workers at various levels to interact with students and parents and record their feedback.The education department said it has been sharing notes and assignments with students via WhatsApp for over a month now amid the nationwide lockdown imposed in March to contain the spread of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease. Lessons are also being transmitted via the NCERT’s Swayamprabha channel and the three Haryana EDUSAT channels.As part of the survey, which began last week, different education officers starting from the school principal to block-level officers are required to reach out to different stakeholders and find out whether students are facing any hurdles in remote learning. All school principals are required to call a minimum of 20 students each daily and take feedback. Similarly, block education officers are required to record feedback from teachers, students and school heads over the same. Block resource persons have also been given lists of different students for the monitoring process. All officers are required to share the feedback recorded daily via email.Schools heads and principals have been asked to gather the progress made by students by seeking details from parents. A template of four questions has been shared by the department for the purpose, seeking details about the role of teachers in disseminating timetables, lessons and assignments. Further, parents are asked if they are providing adequate time and a supportive environment to the student for watching lessons being broadcasted. Lastly, students and parents are asked to share their grievances and inputs, if any.Ravinder Alawadhi, deputy director, SCERT, said the aim of the exercise us to familiarise students with remote learning while at home during the lockdown and monitor their progress, especially those students who do not have access to technology. According to a state government report, around 70% of government school students from classes 2 to 12 in the district have been connected via Whatsapp as part of the online learning campaign, leaving out a significant chunk of students.“Some students were not even aware that online studies are taking place during the lockdown. The message regarding remote classes could not be conveyed to them in the absence of public announcements. In order to fill the lacuna, the department decided to involve officers at different levels who have been asked to reach out to all stakeholders and apprise them about learning programmes being transmitted on TV,” said Alawadhi, who is overseeing the monitoring process in Gurugram, Faridabad, Nuh, Rewari, Palwal, and Mahendragarh.He added that details such as timetables of classes, transmission channels, and the program being telecast were being shared with students to help them participate. “From what we have gathered so far, more and more students are getting to know about remote learning since the past week. We have driven home the point that studies will happen remotely for now,” said Alawadhi.While the education department has not specified any closing date for the survey, Alwadhi said that it would be carried out till the percentage of students not accessing remote classes is covered up and all issues are resolved “There are certain communications gaps that we need to work on. Teachers and other officers are required to share a daily report but some teachers are still learning the ropes. The output and reporting need to be improved,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/education-department-connects-with-students-parents-for-monitoring-remote-learning/story-76v0qm0xwQ69CZpCttex4I.html
14-05-2020||Gurugram||Industry owners asked to fill up questionnaire regarding Covid-19 guidelines||The Haryana government is sending a 17-point questionnaire to the city-based industry owners to understand the status of operations and whether they are following the norms laid down by the ministry of home affairs(MHA) amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. The owners have to fill up the questionnaire and submit it to the Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) within two days of receiving it.A team of three officials has been visiting the industrial units daily since Tuesday to get the questions answered. “Our team asks company to fill up the questionnaire in their presence and complete the formality instantly. If the company opts to submit it on the next day, our team hands them over the questionnaire. Our team has to cover the entire industrial zone in two days. The team has visited over 2,000 industrial units and we have received affidavits from 50 companies so far,” said Sunil Paliwal, estate manager, HSIIDC. The questionnaire includes points of concerns mentioned in the standard operating procedure (SOP) of the industry and commerce department, Haryana, released on April 19 for the resumption of industrial and commercial units.Information regarding mandatory installation of CCTV cameras, wearing of masks, daily sanitisation, on-floor marking of social distancing, number of employees who have joined the duty, number of employees for whom approval has been taken, the travelling details of the employees, thermal screening, use of tobacco products such as guthka etc, medical insurance details of the employees make up the questionnaire.“Our objective is to create a data bank of industrial units. The affidavit we are collecting from the industry owners will help us to assess the exact operational status of every industrial unit in the aftermath of the resumption order by the government,” said Paliwal.The Haryana government is also trying to figure out current condition of industries that have been badly hit by the lockdown.“We will be able to know how many employees/workers joined duties in their respective units. This will help us to assess the exact number of working employees and the absentees,” said Paliwal.There are around 10,000 industrial units in the district, engaging 12 lakh employees.Deepak Main, a Sector 37-based industry owner, said, “We welcome the initiative and are fully cooperating. Most of the industries have been granted permission by the government but labour shortage is a big problem. We are following Covid-19 guidelines. However, there is one thing that is missing in the questionnaire. The government should also ask us about the loss we had to face during the lockdown and plan relief accordingly.”This exercise of handing out a questionnaire to industry owners is a part of the mandatory inspection that is supposed to be carried out by the local authorities. The SOP of the industry and commerce department, Haryana government, states that the industrial units will be inspected by a team of government officials within five days of resumption of operations. The objective is to keep an eye on the employees and employers so as to ensure that the MHA guidelines are being followed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/industry-owners-asked-to-fill-up-questionnaire-regarding-covid-19-guidelines/story-LOpAfWwbeZQYqQpV1NyUdL.html
14-05-2020||City||Buses ferry migrant workers from border area of Morta in Ghaziabad||Thousands of migrant workers who arrived in the border area of Morta, Ghaziabad, looking for a way back to their home towns, were Thursday allowed to board a UP State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) buses to their respective villages. Many living in shelter homes were also put on buses back to home. The mammoth gathering of workers, however, was uncontrollable and social distancing was largely flouted.The officials of UPSRTC said there was a need for about 155 buses to ferry all the migrant workers who arrived at Morta.“The buses are being sent on a regular basis. About 109 buses were dispatched on May 12 and more are being sent again on Thursday. We are trying to ensure that workers occupy only 30 of the 52 available seats on ordinary and Janrath buses. However, everyone wanted to board the buses. But officials at the spot tried hard to maintain social distancing,” AK Singh, regional manager of UPSRTC, said.He said separate arrangements were being made for migrant workers who were staying at shelter homes.“Each migrant who arrived in Morta on Thursday was properly screened by the health department and their identification noted down before they were allowed to board buses to different areas in eastern Uttar Pradesh and bordering areas of Bihar and Madhya Pradesh,” Singh said.As a result, majority of roads in Ghaziabad did not see the migrant worker exodus as seen over the previous days when groups had set out on foot with their families for the long trek back home.Twenty-five year-old Kavita, who is eight months pregnant, has been staying on the road with her family. However, when her family heard about buses from Morta, they rushed to the spot.“I going on eight months and have been staying on the road with my family. We are construction workers and our shanty near Raj Nagar was blown away by the squall three days ago. On Thursday, I heard that buses were going from Morta and so I arrived here with my husband and three-year-old son. We have no money left and need to return to our village in Damoh, Madhya Pradesh. The bus will drop us near the border and from there we will make further arrangements to reach home,” she said.“There is huge crowd and everyone is trying to get on the buses. My husband asked me to wait and not to move into the crowd as I could get hurt,” Kavita said.Most of the workers who arrived in Morta on Thursday were mostly from Delhi, Hayrana, Ghaziabad and Noida. “As soon as we heard that buses are leaving, we paid ₹500 per person and reached here by taxi from Gurugram on Wednesday night. However, there was a heavy rush and social distancing was hardly there. Everyone was trying to force their way onto buses and police could not control them. Still, we stood in long queues for our turn,” Dharmendra Kumar, who hails from Ghazipur in Uttar Pradesh, said. He used to work with a medical company in Manesar, Gurugram, and had arrived in Morta with 12 others.“We have tried our best to control the huge gathering of workers and accommodate them on buses to their home towns,” said Shailendra Singh, additional district magistrate (city), who was present in Morta to make the transport arrangements.“A number of trains are coming to UP from different states and the chief secretary has also written to Delhi to start four trains each day from Delhi to UP. It has also been decided that trains will also ply from Ghaziabad and Noida to areas in UP and Bihar. It is likely that the trains will start from Friday. The entire cost of the trains will be borne by the UP government and migrant workers will not be charged a fare,” Awanish Awasthi, additional chief secretary, Uttar Pradesh, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/buses-ferry-migrant-workers-from-border-area-of-morta-in-ghaziabad/story-A00i3FT1Koch9eaJqF9guL.html
14-05-2020||Gurugram||NGT stays non-forestry activities by CISF in Aravallis||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) on Thursday prevented the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) from carrying out any further non-forestry activities on 260 acres of forest land in Sohna’s Mandawar village. The CISF had, in October 2019, begun pre-construction activities in the area for setting up a paramilitary camp, leading to objections by the forest department. In response to a petition filed by Ram Avtar Yadav, the former sarpanch of the Manesar panchayat, the NGT had sought a report in the matter from the district forest officer (DFO), Gurugram. The report, submitted before the Tribunal in March, stated, “The CISF started works of site clearance and pruning of trees... without taking prior permission from the Divisional Forest Officer as mandated under general Section 4 of the Punjab Land Preservation Act, 1900.” The DFO’s report also states that the land is protected on at least two other counts, by virtue of the ministry of environment, forest and climate change’s (MoEFCC) Aravalli notification of 1992, and the Aravalli Plantation Project, both of which require clearances from the Central government (under the Forest Conservation Act, 1980) to allow non-forestry activities. “In view of above, it is necessary to ensure that no non-forest activity is allowed in the forest area without following the due process of law,” the NGT stated in its May 13 order.According to official documents, the Mandawar gram panchayat has sold at least 260 acres of protected Aravalli land to the CISF for setting up a paramilitary camp. A copy of the registry papers, dated September 22, 2019, are with Hindustan Times. They reveal that the land was sold at a cost of ₹104.29 crore, following a resolution passed by the panchayat on September 9. Jai Kumar, DFO, Gurugram, declined to comment on the matter. However, a senior forest department official directly overseeing the matter, said, “The NGT’s order is very clear. We had already registered a Forest Offence Report (FOR) against the user agency last year. We will not be allowing any further activities on site until permissions are obtained.” The transfer of land for development of public utilities has also sparked concern among environmentalists, who say the area forms a part of a wildlife corridor between Gurugram’s Damdama lake and Roz ka Gujjar (both leopard habitats), extending to Sariska in Rajasthan. Hemendra Singh, spokesperson, CISF, did not respond to calls and messages seeking comment on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/ngt-stays-non-forestry-activities-by-cisf-in-aravallis/story-3GgxmK46ZRyVhzCTRJqRsK.html
14-05-2020||Gurugram||First come, first served, says admin as migrants disallowed from boarding trains to Bihar||A group of 40-50 migrants, who had registered themselves on the e-Disha portal to return to their home towns in Bihar, were unable to board relief trains, after they were denied entry into the Tau Devi Lal Stadium, where they were asked to gather by the district administration through an SMS.  The workers who could not board the train on Thursday were allowed to enter the Tau Devi Lal Stadium at 5pm, given food and told by the administration that they would be sent to Bihar on Friday.Officials at the District Development Panchayat Office (DDPO), the nodal authority to register migrants’ details on the portal, said the facility is being run on a ‘first come, first served’ basis. They said that the train was able to accommodate only 1,200 people, against an expected 1,600, but assured that all those who have registered on the portal would be sent home.Railways officials denied that a train with lower-than-expected capacity was sent to the Gurugram railway station. “The train to Khagaria had a capacity of 1,600 passengers, but 1,200 had boarded the train as proper social distance was maintained,” said a senior Gurugram Railways official, on the condition of anonymity.Officials said that trains were sent to Bihar on Wednesday and Thursday, carrying 2,800 passengers in total, with another scheduled for departure on Friday. So far, around 100,000 migrants from Bihar have registered with the state government for returning to their home towns. Discussing the situation at the Tau Devi Lal Stadium on Thursday morning, district development panchayat officer Narender Sarwan said, “Entry was not given to those people who had come at 5am because the capacity of people who could be sent home had reached the maximum number. How can we take 2,000 people when the capacity of the train is 1,200? We will make sure that those who have been left behind will also go to their home towns.”Manoj Kumar, who had come to Gurugram in March in search of a livelihood, was spotted crying when he was not allowed to enter the stadium. “I came to the stadium at 5am, but I was not allowed to go inside it despite having received a message to board the train on Thursday,” said Kumar.After the doors of the stadium closed, the migrants took shelter on a non-motorised track near the Medanta underpass.Sajjan Kumar, who had accompanied Manoj Kumar, was also denied entry into the stadium. “I don’t have any place to go now. After I had received the SMS to come to Tau Devi Lal Stadium, I left the room in Bhim Nagar. Now, I don’t have any place to go,” said Sajjan Kumar.District administration officials said they check the credentials and body temperature of each person before they are allowed to board the train. The temperature of migrant workers is checked before they board the train, said a district administration official.Railway officials said that two trains left from Gurugram on Thursday — one to Khagaria in Bihar and the other to Maharaja Chhatrasal Station Chhatarpur in Madhya Pradesh.Sunil Sachdeva, the chief ticket inspector, said, “No fare was charged from the migrant workers who had boarded the train and everyone will get meals during the trip.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/first-come-first-served-says-admin-as-migrants-disallowed-from-boarding-trains-to-bihar/story-Brqs1qouWn4JjWFxuGnEiM.html
14-05-2020||Gurugram||Three more arrested in Naurangpur village murder case||A day after the arrest of a suspected sharpshooter of a gang for allegedly ordering the murder of a rival gangster in Naurangpur village near Kherki Daula, the police on Thursday said that they have nabbed three more men in relation to the case. According to the police, the men are associates of the suspected sharpshooter. The arrested men were identified as Deepak Kumar, 20, a native of Bhiwani; Manish Singh, 25,from Jhajjar, and Somveer Singh alias Dinesh, from Hisar. The police said that the men were nabbed on Wednesday around 9pm from IFFCO Chowk after they received a tip-off.On Wednesday, the police had said that they arrested Dhiraj Yadav, the suspected sharpshooter, who is allegedly a part of Ashok Rathi gang. He allegedly had rivalry with the victim, identified as one Manjeet Yadav. The police had said that Dhiraj and his associates hatched a conspiracy to kill Manjeet as he had control over newspaper distribution and the supply of security guards and domestic helpers to condominiums in the Kherki Daula area. Although Dhiraj wanted to take over the business, Manjeet would not let anyone enter his jurisdiction.Subhash Boken, spokesperson, city police, said, “Deepak, Manish and Somveer are associates of Dhiraj who asked them to kill Manjeet. Dhiraj was the one who provided weapons and a car to them. As planned, the three men shot dead Manjeet on Monday evening at a park in Naurangpur village.” He said that the arrested men were sent to police custody for two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/three-more-arrested-in-naurangpur-village-murder-case/story-WP4ofltFyreaf6JjNqyamI.html
14-05-2020||City||Nabha man dies after he jumps quarantine||A 45-year-old man died at his residence at Hiana Kalan village in Nabha sub-division of Patiala district hours after he fled a quarantine centre in the village.Harpal Singh, a combine operator, was quarantined at the village school on May 1 after he returned from harvest work in Sangrur. Harpal was to complete his quarantine period on Thursday, but he escaped from the centre before the doctors could give him clearance to go home.Deceased’s mother Mohinder Kaur said Harpal had called up his son and complained of vomiting. “My grandson brought him home. His health deteriorated and he died after some time. I don’t know what happened at the school.”However, the health department failed to conduct Covid-19 test on the deceased. Senior medical officer Hans Raj said Harpal was a drug addict and was undergoing de-addiction treatment.Civil surgeon Harish Malhotra said, “He had been asymptomatic during his quarantine period. He was a drug addict and apparently died under a fit. That’s why doctors did not conduct Covid test on him.”However, SHO Jai Inder Singh Randhawa denied that the deceased was an addict and said the reason behind the death will be ascertained from the postmortem report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nabha-man-dies-after-he-jumps-quarantine/story-t5OT2uIwJgzyjl4soFYfZP.html
14-05-2020||Mumbai||Are all high-risk contacts being screened in Mumbai’s slums?||Discrepancies in the screening of high-risk contacts of Covid-19 patients in some of Mumbai’s most congested areas have become a cause for concern, as they could lead to further spread of infection.At present, 10,237 high-risk contacts of Covid-19 patients have been quarantined at category-one Covid care centres (CCC-1) located in converted hotels, lodges, and schools. However, data from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has brought into question the efforts to screen vulnerable groups from wards like G/N and M/E which have some of the biggest slums in the city.As per the Union Health Ministry’s guidelines, people with comorbid health issues and those above the age of 60, who have come in direct contact with Covid-infected patients, are classified as high-risk contacts. BMC keeps them isolated in CCC-1 to prevent transmission of the virus.In Mumbai, there are 23,100 beds reserved for high-risk contacts in CCC-1 across the 24 wards. At present, only 55% of them are occupied with 10,237 people. In G/N ward, which comprises Dharavi, Dadar, and Mahim with 1,316 Covid-19 cases, has 1,590 beds under CCC-1 but only 412 high-risk patients are quarantined at these centres.Similarly, M/E ward, which includes areas like Govandi and Deonar, has quarantined only 432 high-risk patients while the bed capacity is 4,030 — the highest among the 24 wards. This is despite the ward having the most tuberculosis patients in the city.E (Nagpada) and F/N (Wadala, Sion Koliwada, Worli) wards, with the third and fifth-highest number of Covid cases, have kept only 378 and 356 high-risk contacts in their CCC-1 facilities, respectively. Wards like S (Bhandup, Vikhroli) and R/C (Borivli) on the other hand, which have recorded among the lowest number of cases, have institutionally quarantined the most high-risk contacts — 1,338 and 741, respectively. Health activists have criticised the screening process implemented by BMC. “As people with weak immunity or compromised lungs are most susceptible to Covid-19, it is important to isolate them immediately to break the chain of infection,” said Arun Kumar, from Apnalaya NGO.BMC said that high-risk contacts are screened as soon as someone tests positive for Covid-19. “Often, these high-risk contacts refuse to go to the centre and we have to take help from the police,” said Kiran Dighavkar, G/N ward officer.Predicting a surge in Covid cases by the end of May, BMC is trying to add more beds in CCC-1. “Just because 55% of the beds are vacant, doesn’t mean we aren’t isolating high-risk contacts. We are keeping five times the required beds so that we don’t face any crisis,” said Bharat Marathe, deputy municipal commissioner of Zone 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/are-all-high-risk-contacts-being-screened-in-mumbai-s-slums/story-rGFWk4K6K8puHDzEr2LY5K.html
14-05-2020||City||Coronavirus lockdown: 12 fresh cases take J&K tally to 983||Twelve more people were tested positive for coronavirus in Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday, taking the number of such cases in the Union Territory to 983, officials said.“12 new positive cases of coronavirus were detected in the UT on Thursday,” the officials said. They said while eight cases are from the Kashmir Valley, four are from the Jammu region.The officials said the total number of cases in Jammu and Kashmir has now reached 983.“Of these, 882 are in Kashmir, while 101 are in Jammu region,” they added.The officials said there are 487 active cases in the UT, 445 in Kashmir and 42 in Jammu, while 485 patients have recovered. The UT has witnessed 11 Covid-9 related deaths, nine in Kashmir and two in Jammu. Bandipore, Srinagar and Anantnag are the districts with maximum number of Covid-19 cases in J&K. The Officials attribute the surge in the number of positive cases to more and more testing and arrival of people from different states. A senior doctor, who is part of JK’s Covid-19 team, said that people shouldn’t get scared with this number. “Most of the fresh cases are contacts of already declared positive cases. Our recovery rate is good and death rate is also very low,” he added.He said majority of patients admitted in hospitals are showing mild symptoms of the disease. “Since we are testing more, so the cases have gone up. People should follow the guidelines to contain spread of Covid-19,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-lockdown-12-fresh-cases-take-j-k-tally-to-983/story-4M6ccSVnRtruuG2CHh1feN.html
14-05-2020||Noida||Society staff in Noida Sector 137 go on strike to demand salaries||The staff of a highrise in Sector 137 — Exotica Fresco — were forced to go on a strike for five days after they were not paid their salaries this month. The staff claimed that they had been promised double the pay if they worked during the lockdown, but ultimately not paid anything.Sources said that the housekeeping and maintenance staff and security guards of Exotica Fresco had been on a strike since Sunday, though most of them rejoined duty by Thursday after residents of the society requested them.“We were offered twice the salaries if we stayed here and worked during the lockdown. For the past 4 to 5 months, our salaries have been coming late and even though that is inconvenient, we somehow managed. But they haven’t paid us at all this month. We have responsibilities. I have to send money back home to Bihar. I also have family living in Noida who are dependent on my income,” said a security guard of the society, on condition of anonymity.He said that they have been assured of timely payment earlier, but not paid forcing them to go on a strikeOn Thursday, after much pleading and requests from residents, a section of the staff decided to partially resume their duties.“They do this every month and we have had enough. We would have continued the strike but some residents requested us to call it off. We have been told that we will get half our salaries soon. But if they had to pay only half, why did they offer us twice the money? If we don’t get our salaries soon, we may have to think about quitting altogether,” said a member of the housekeeping staff.The society normally retains more than 100 staff members but the number has been reduced to less than 35 amid the lockdown.“The reduced number of staff means that the existing ones have to put in more hours, without getting paid for it . We had to request them several times to get back to work, even though we absolutely understand their actions. Residents have tried to get in touch with their superiors, but there hasn’t been appropriate response and no one seems to be bothered by their plight,” said a resident of the society.“These people have been working on the front lines as the pandemic raged around us. Two days ago, I saw some of the staff members standing outside the gate with their families, because they desperately needed their wages. The problem is not that we had been left vulnerable because of lack of security or garbage collection. The problem is that these people are risking a lot and are not even being paid for their efforts,” said another resident.The society management, however, denied that the staff had gone on a strike.“There was some tension in the morning but all the staff returned to work promptly. There was a delay last month but the salaries were ultimately paid. And this month double salaries have to come, half of which will be paid by today (Thursday) and the rest by tomorrow ,” said Bhaskar Ojha, the estate manager of the society.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/society-staff-in-noida-sector-137-go-on-strike-to-demand-salaries/story-PcL3zik0ASP9cuEoN32ZwM.html
14-05-2020||Noida||After domestic helps, residents’ bodies want guidelines on movement of guests||With domestic air travel likely to resume soon and some special trains running operations already, local residents’ bodies are waiting for guidelines from the administration on what procedures to follow for guests that come to the district.While the district administration has allowed every resident welfare association (RWA) to take an independent call on the entry of domestic helpers inside the society’s premises with the consensus of the residents, officials are yet to specify norms on the movement of guests especially for those coming from outside the district and the state. “Movement of outsiders, except for those engaged in essential services, is completely barred in the society. A girl who was studying in Agra recently came back to her home here; such cases are fine and should be allowed to come back home, but we have asked all residents to not entertain any guests. In fact, we had a scare a few days ago when a flat owner in the area got his staff to stay here for self-quarantine without informing anyone from the RWA,” said Sanjeev Kumar, president, Sector 51 RWA said.Kumar said in such cases, clear guidelines will go a long way.“We have sanitisers and thermal screeners at the main gate of the sector and each guest is thoroughly screened. The movement of people in and out of the sector is very less right now, but with the relaxations in domestic travel, it may increase soon. We definitely need some guidelines on how to handle the movement of people in such a scenario. We have even raised the issue with senior officials during webinars,” said NP Singh, president, District Development Resident Welfare Association (DDRWA).In case of any kind of long-distance travel, officials have repeatedly advised people to go under self-quarantine for at least 14 days. They have also stressed on travelling only in case of emergency, while local travel is allowed only for essential purposes during the lockdown.“If it is some sort of a family health emergency and people are coming from outside, it is humane to let them return home. However, using a residential area for quarantine is not completely right. Ideally, people coming from outside should opt for institutional quarantine,” said chief executive officer of Greater Noida authority, Narendra Bhooshan, who is also the nodal officer for the district for efforts to control Covid-19 spread. Many residents’ bodies are requesting residents to notify them of any guests that they host in their homes.“Guests are not ideally allowed, and there are certain guidelines already in place for people travelling with necessary passes. Within the district, only people from non-containment zones are allowed to move around, and we request residents to inform us in advance if any outsider is going to stay with them. We also hope that as domestic travel picks up pace, we receive some guidelines from the administration,” said Rajiva Singh, president, Noida Federation of Apartment Owners Associations (NOFAA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/after-domestic-helps-residents-bodies-want-guidelines-on-movement-of-guests/story-TmhaYuiq2zcSeQj3ASLnuK.html
14-05-2020||Gurugram||Realtors welcome govt decisions, seek increased liquidity and easier loans to tide over crisis||Developers in the city, who are struggling to resume construction of real estate projects, on Thursday, hailed the government’s decision to extend timelines for projects registered with the Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA). However, they said more measures are needed to kick-start the realty sector, which has been struggling for the last few years.The lockdown caused by the spread of the coronavirus disease, according to developers, will cause delays in the delivery of projects. They said that revenue has come to a standstill and are apprehensive about the possible cancellation of bookings done in the last six months.Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Wednesday said that states are being advised to invoke a force majeure clause of the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, so that registration and completion dates of these projects can be extended by six to nine months. The statutory compliances under RERA are also to be extended, she had said.In view of the multiple problems faced by the sector, realtors in Gurugram want the government to boost liquidity, ensure easier loan terms, extend the payment of dues on account of EDC/IDC by six to nine months and help in restructuring existing loans. At the national level, the industry said they want more sops and tax rebates for homebuyers, and reduction of home loan rates, so that demand for housing rises.Praveen Jain, the vice-chairman, National Real Estate Development Council (Naredco), said that extension of the deadline of projects for six months is a positive step but cautioned that the industry might spiral if more steps aren’t taken. “The industry is facing fund crunch and this needs to be addressed. We had requested a restructuring of loans and the addition of limits. Also, rescheduling of external development charge (EDC) dues needs to happen,” he said.Real estate industry body CREDAI expressed hope that measures for infusion of liquidity, decartelisation of cement prices and restoration of the supply chain to ease construction at project sites would be announced soon. “A majority of the construction labour wants to go home, while senior executives from Delhi, Faridabad and Noida are not allowed to come to work as borders are sealed. Unless more steps are taken, the labour present on sites will also vanish and we will be in a very bad situation,” said a developer, who preferred anonymity.Developers also called for augmentation of rental housing on a large-scale in metro cities of the country. “The government should come out with a comprehensive policy framework for rental housing. It will help in creating a large pool of rental housing, backed by financial institutions, with the help of an adequate policy framework,” said Pankaj Bansal, director, M3M Group.Despite the difficulties, the developers are optimistic that steps announced by the government, such as the extension of deadline and relief to employees under EPF, will boost sentiment and create a demand.“The buyers of the affordable category will benefit from government steps, as they will have extra money at their disposal. With extra disposable income, these beneficiaries will go for procuring real estate assets,” said Pradeep Aggarwal, chairman, Signature Global, which deals in affordable housing projects.“The Central government is announcing relief package for various industries right now. Once this is over, the state government will also come out with its own measures for the industries,” said Amit Arya, media advisor to the Haryana chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/realtors-welcome-govt-decisions-seek-increased-liquidity-and-easier-loans-to-tide-over-crisis/story-lhONzL8UJUsnYOsSJmLNOI.html
14-05-2020||Mumbai||Prithviraj Chavan suggests govt should borrow gold from religious trusts, faces flak||Former chief minister and senior Congress leader Prithviraj Chavan’s suggestion that the government should borrow gold lying with religious trusts in the country in the wake of financial crunch amid Covid-19 pandemic has stirred controversy as several organisations and temple trusts have strongly opposed the idea. Many blamed Chavan for targeting only Hindu trusts. Chavan had, on Wednesday, tweeted, “Government must immediately appropriate all the gold lying with all the religious trusts in the country, worth at least $1trillion, according to the #WorldGoldCouncil. The gold can be borrowed through gold bonds at a low-interest rate. This is an emergency.” He said that it can be borrowed at the interest rate of 1-2% in the form of a loan. However, some did not like the idea. Tushar Bhosale, joint convenor of Maharashtra BJP’s Spiritual Front, condemned Chavan for the concept coined by him. “If the Congress is so concerned about the financial condition of the country, it should first bring out the money usurped by the Congress leaders from scams during their rule,” he said. Chavan on Thursday said that his idea was not a new one and that the previous Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government had actually introduced the gold monetisation schemes. “The Vajpayee government in 1999 introduced the gold deposit scheme (GDS) as an aftermath of economic sanctions after May 1998 Pokharan Atomic tests. The scheme was targeted at individuals and institutions asking them to deposit gold in the banks. On November 5, 2015, PM Narendra Modi’s government modified the GDS and introduced the gold monetisation scheme which still exists. According to a finance ministry report, 20,547 kg of gold has been mobilised by 2,952 entities between November 2015 and January 2020 under the scheme. Two temples from Maharashtra have deposited their gold with 11 banks,” he said. Chavan said that both the schemes were introduced by BJP governments. Hindu Janjagruti Samiti, a right-wing organisation, alleged it is a deceptive appeal to usurp gold from temples. “The idea commensurates with the Congress’s anti-Hindu policies over the past 70 years. The party looted ₹4.82 lakh crore in the form of scams. Congress leaders should return the public money. The churches in the country own most of the land after the defence and railway ministries. Wakf Board owns nearly 7 lakh acres of land. Will the Congress leaders demand to take over their lands,” Ramesh Shinde, national spokesperson of Samiti said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/chavan-suggests-govt-should-borrow-gold-from-religious-trusts-faces-flak/story-1DBVRv3guaALQGtlw53seO.html
14-05-2020||Gurugram||Health teams to conduct additional 200 tests every week for community surveillance||The Gurugram health department is likely to soon start a systematic community surveillance in order to monitor the spread of Covid-19 at the district level.The monitoring, officials said, will include testing outpatient attendees in identified health facilities and pregnant women for the virus. Every week, 200 samples will be collected in addition to the routine testing done in containment zones and individual cases being reported from different areas of the city. “It is called district level facility-based surveillance for Covid-19. We will be selecting six public and four private healthcare facilities for community surveillance, as per government guidelines,” said Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, chief medical officer. He said that the health facilities will be identified by Friday after which testing will start. As part of the surveillance, the health team will be covering both low and high-risk population groups. In the low-risk group, outpatient attendees, especially those without Influenza like Illness (ILI), and pregnant women will be covered. In the high-risk category, samples of health care workers and hospital staff will be taken.Every week, 100 samples of health care workers will be collected, while 50 samples each of outpatient attendees and pregnant women will be taken adding up to 200 samples. “Every month at least 800 samples will be taken to check the spread of the infection,” said Punia.Nasal and throat swabs will be collected for RT-PCR and blood samples will be collected for ELISA (Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay) for IgG antibodies. As per an order issued by the state health department, the IgG ELISA based testing to detect if a person has antibodies will replace RT-PCR based testing in subsequent rounds for surveillance purpose. Also, pool testing of samples will be done only for surveillance but not for the diagnosis of individual patients. Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary, health department, said,“The Central government has shared its guidelines for community surveillance. But Haryana has already been doing random testing to check spread of the infection. We will now be merging the state and the Central government guidelines and increase the surveillance base.”Dr Preeti Kumar, vice president, Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI), said that community surveillance would aid in identifying areas where cases are high. “Mass testing of population is impossible due to operational issues and other technical factors. Sampling becomes extremely critical by doing proper size estimation. Separate containment strategies can be framed for areas with high number of cases while freeing others from lockdown restrictions.”According to her, testing pregnant women becomes essential as they cannot be denied healthcare services, while those visiting OPDs having no ILI -like symptoms can be silent carriers. “During an epidemic, surveillance and sampling require extra vigilance,” said Kumar. TESTING IN URBAN SLUMSContinuing with its targeted sampling, the district health team is now focusing on urban slums. Surveillance and sample collection exercise was done in urban slums of the city such as Chakkarpur, Tigra and Ghata. In Chakkarpur, 252 people were tested for SARS-CoV-2 antibodies using Rapid Testing Kits (RTK) while 40 samples were taken for RT-PCR test. All the tests turned out to be negative. Likewise, in slums of Tigra, 90 people were tested for antibodies and 60 for RT-PCR. In Ghata, 29 were tested for antibodies and 46 for RT-PCR. Punia said that the exercise in these areas will continue till Sunday. At least 128 samples were also taken from Khandsa Mandi, wholesale market for fruits and vegetable, where 25 vendors have tested positive so far.According to the data shared by the state health department, 441 RT-PCR test and 341 antibody test have been done in the urban slums of the district, that house a population of more than 1 million . Out of which 2,56,866 households have been surveyed by ASHA workers since the beginning of the outbreak and 9,35,372 were screened for ILI and Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI). Data shows, 2992 people were found with ILI, breathlessness, pneumonia and SARI. None of them were found to be Covid-19 positive. While in other districts, like Jhajjar, 72 people in urban slums were tested Covid-19 positive. 16 were found positive in Faridabad, 14 in Panipat and 4 in Sonepat slums.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/health-teams-to-conduct-additional-200-tests-every-week-for-community-surveillance/story-FBAiPx9vNaGMMl5nDb5thL.html
14-05-2020||City||Deshmukh reviews Thane district situation||A total of 3,500 prisoners will be released from prisons across Thane commissionerate, said state home minister Anil Deshmukh on Thursday. After 158 inmates and 26 staff of Arthur Road jail tested positive for Covid-19, the state decided to release prisoners who have been sentenced for more than seven years except those serving sentence for heinous crimes.“The police department will arrange buses for them to reach their hometown,” he said.Deshmukh also asked the police department to watch out for cybercrimes and book people who spread rumors. He said, “There has been an increase in cybercrimes. The police department’s cybercrime cell needs to be extra vigilant to stop such crimes. They should keep a tab on the social networking sites and applications and take action on those spreading rumors.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/deshmukh-reviews-thane-district-situation/story-7mVMQj9bgLCsZcaI0p1ihO.html
14-05-2020||Chandigarh||Dry spell likely after light showers in Punjab and Haryana: IMD||After light spells of rain in some areas of Punjab and Haryana, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted that this will stop from Friday onwards and a spell of dry weather is on the cards. “Western disturbances will have mostly left the region by Friday and dry days are likely to follow. An increase in maximum temperature can be expected however it is still likely to stay below normal,” an IMD official said. On Thursday, 6.2mm of rain was recorded in Hisar while Ludhiana received 8mm of rain till 5.30pm. Chandigarh only recorded traces of rain.Temperature remained on the lower side in Punjab with maximum temperature dropping down to 25.4°C in Amritsar, 13°C below normal. Districts in Haryana which didn’t receive rain saw a jump in temperature. Temperature in Karnal went up from 31.8°C degrees on Wednesday to 38°C on Thursday.Gusty winds were also recorded in the region. Wind speeds went up to 25 km/h at the IMD observatory in Sector 39 in Chandigarh, but no damage was reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dry-spell-likely-after-light-showers-in-punjab-and-haryana-imd/story-rcoxLsWJQwWKD21niPNPNN.html
14-05-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University extends last dates of submission of exam forms||Panjab University (PU) on Thursday extended the last dates for submission of examination forms in the wake of lockdown amid the coronavirus outbreak. The last date for submitting the forms without late fee was in February, after which late fee was imposed. Now, the varsity has extended the submission dates with late fee.PU in a statement said, “It is notified for the information of the public in general and the students in particular that in view of the Covid-19 and the lockdown imposed since March 22, the last dates for submission of examination forms (with late fee) for private, reappear, regular candidates of all the undergraduate (UG), postgraduate (PG) and PG diploma courses have been extended.” Students have been notified to submit the examination form online, it added.The last form submission date of March 16 has been extended to June 1 with late fee of ₹ 6,075. The last date of April 4 has now been extended to June 10 with late fee of ₹11,075. Also, the last date of April 23 has been extended to June 22 with late fee of ₹22,075.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-extends-last-dates-of-submission-of-exam-forms/story-hvWsQMJQfsVCsoC94yxzyK.html
14-05-2020||City||KDMC teachers on Covid survey demand health cover||Around 400 teachers working in Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) schools have been asked to be part of the door-to-door survey for Covid-19. They have to go to containment areas, visit each house and find out if anyone has any symptoms. Highlighting the health concerns, they have demanded a health insurance like those for health workers.“We are not even sure how many days it will take to complete the survey. Only some teachers have received gloves and masks. Others are using their own masks during the survey. Although we are maintaining a safe distance during the survey, we are worried about our health,” said Gulabrao Patil, teacher at a KDMC school, who has been surveying houses for 15 days.The teachers have written to the KDMC.“We need proper safety gear, masks and gloves. A health insurance is a must as we are risking our lives. We conduct a health survey and tell residents about precautionary measures,” said Jitendra Singh Nikumbh, a teacher at KDMC school in Kalyan.KDMC said it will take time to consider the teachers’ demand.“The letter given by the teachers is with the health department and they will have to discuss with authorities before taking a decision. This is a time-taking process,” said Madhvi Pophale, public relations officer, KDMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kdmc-teachers-on-covid-survey-demand-health-cover/story-ypcPpopBlhfK6LhJ6wGNTJ.html
14-05-2020||City||Chaos outside Bathinda rly station as 3,000 turn up to board Shramik Express||Amid allegations of police lathi-charge by migrant workers going back home and utter chaos, around 3,000 of them left the district, in a Shramik Express train to Bihar and in 26 private buses to Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh, on Thursday.The chaos resulted as workers in huge numbers, more than the train’s capacity, turned up at the railway ground, the designated collection point. This was the third Shramik Express from the city, and was to go to Motihari in Bihar without stopping, but workers from other states had also crowded the area around the railway station. Finally, 1,521 migrant workers left on this train.The indications for chaos were there on Wednesday itself, when a large crowd had gathered outside the railway ground, before the administration finally managed to send them to the DAV College and the Government Polytechnic College to spend the night. Even as they were taken to the railway station on Thursday morning, more workers had arrived from other parts of the city. Akhilesh Kumar of Purnea in Bihar, who worked as painter in Bathinda, said, “The police lathi-charged us. I was injured in the leg.” Ankit Kumar, from Gopalganj in Bihar, who missed the train in the chaos, also claimed police lathi-charge.Bathinda SSP Nanak Singh, however, said, “No force was used on workers. They had arrived in numbers that were more than the train’s capacity, so some were sent back.” With workers from Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand left behind, they were sent back in 26 private buses. Bathinda deputy commissioner B Srinivasan said, “Workers arranged these buses themselves and paid for travel. We only issued them travel passes.” The worker Ankit claimed that workers were so desperate to go home that they paid Rs 2,000 each for the bus up to Bihar border and Rs 1,200 each to be dropped at the Uttar Pradesh border. 100th Shramik Express leaves state The 100th Shramik Express from the state, the 39th from Ludhiana since the first train chugged out from Jalandhar on May 5, left the state on Thursday. Its destination was Mau in Uttar Pradesh. To date, 1.35 lakh migrants, including 1.2 lakh adults and 15,000 children, have left for home states. Trains are leaving the state from Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Patiala, Mohali, Amritsar, Ferozepur, Sirhind and Bathinda, with each carrying around 1,200 passengers. Eight trains would depart from Ludhiana on Friday. On Thursday, rain was a major inconvenience for departing workers, assembled at the Guru Nanak Stadium, as seven such trains departed.^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^Strap/BlurbMigrant workers allege police lathi-charge, a charge the department has denied; finally, the train to Bihar leaves with over 1,500, with those from UP and Jharkhand hiring 26 private buses to take them to their state borders||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chaos-outside-bathinda-rly-station-as-3-000-turn-up-to-board-shramik-express/story-HqyA4OovUamA9qCjTL0dzK.html
14-05-2020||Mumbai||Cybercrime plaints on rise during lockdown||The anti-phishing portal of the Maharashtra Cyber Police, which deals with all kinds of cybercrimes, has witnessed a spike in instances of cybercrime with around 200 cases being reported in April and around 150 complaints till May 13.A majority of the complaints are bank-related frauds while there is a spike in government related frauds during lockdown. “Banking frauds are those where fraudsters use phishing or vishing to get people’s bank details and government related frauds are where fraudsters impersonate as government servant or use misleading posts on social media to trick people to transfer money, such as fake accounts for PM CARES fund or government schemes for the poor,” said a police officer from the cyber police department.According to information provided by the Maharashtra cyber department, since June 2019 till May 13, 2020, a total of 1,563 complaints of cybercrime have been received. As per a month wise bar diagram of complaints shared by the department, none of the previous months saw the number of complaints go beyond 150. However, in April this year the number of complainants shot up to 200 and there have been 150 complaints in just 13 days of May.Explaining the action taken on the complaints, Balsing Rajput, superintendent, Maharashtra Cyber, said, “As soon as we receive complaints on the portal from people about fraudulent phone calls or websites or a fake profiles on any social media platforms trying to cheat them, we get in touch with the concerned service provider, social media platform, search engine, intermediaries and alert them about the alleged misuse. It’s their responsibility to take further appropriate action. We also conduct a follow-up to ensure action is being taken from their end.”Of the total 1,563 complaints, a majority of 660 are banking frauds, 548 are other cyber frauds, 98 are lottery frauds, 79 investment frauds, 76 job portals, 69 fake government related frauds, 21 are matrimonial or dating frauds and 12 are impersonating as security forces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cybercrime-plaints-on-rise-during-lockdown/story-hFDbRhfKHioYU4IkHa1qLK.html
14-05-2020||City||250 crowd Sangrur Sewa Kendra for registration as labourers||Over 250 people crowded the local Sewa Kendra on Thursday to register as labourers, with the state government depositing Rs 3,000 in accounts of labourers registered with it during the coronavirus pandemic. Women were also among those who had gathered. All of them, however, were sent back as the Sewa Kendras are not yet offering this service, with only 153 designated works being done.This was the 3rd day since the Sewa Kendra reopened in the district. The district has over 27,000 registered labourers and almost all of them had received Rs 6,000 over the past two months. Registration as a labourer is valid for five years, with the government fee kept at Rs 635. “I have been working as a labourer for years, but was unaware of the benefits of registration,” claimed Kanta Devi, one of those who had queued up. Sewa Kendra district manager Gurjant Singh said, “Over 250 people arrived at the centre to register themselves, but this service is yet to start. We managed to control the situation with the help of the police.”Strap/BlurbTurned away as the state is not offering the service as of now; majority of 27,000-odd registered labourers in the district were given Rs 3,000 a month in accounts as aid due to covid-19 over past two months||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/250-crowd-sangrur-sewa-kendra-for-registration-as-labourers/story-1vvLQI5Q33QqSOdV7UjdvI.html
14-05-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana cases cross 800 mark||Twenty-five more people, including 12 from Faridabad, four from Gurugram, three from Jhajjar, two each from Jind and Karnal and one each from Mahendergarh and Rewari, tested positive for the coronavirus in Haryana on Thursday, taking the total count of those infected by the disease in the state to 818. Most of the Faridabad patients were in contact with infected vegetable sellers having travel history to Delhi, while one new case pertained to an employee of a private company who had recently been to Gujarat. In Karnal, two Nanded-returnees tested positive for Covid-19, taking the district tally to 11. Two vegetable sellers were found infected with the virus in Narwana town of Jind.Son of another infected seller in Bahadurgarh’s Nehru Park area in Jhajjar was tested positive. In Rewari, a 35-year-old man, who had visited AIIMS in Delhi on May 5 to meet his cousin, a TB patient, tested positive for the disease. 10 TEST POSITIVE IN SONEPATThough the health bulletin did not mention their cases, 10 people tested positive for coronavirus in Sonepat on Thursday evening. They included a 36-year-old employee of a local private hospital, two residents of Memarpur village and Rishi Colony, two youths from Raj Mohalla and a 67-year-old man from Khanna Colony. The remaining ones are from other parts of the district. Sonepat civil surgeon BK Rajoura said that most of the cases are contacts of vegetable sellers and few of them have Delhi connection.21 MORE DISCHARGEDMeanwhile, with 21 more patients getting discharged in Haryana, the total number of those cured of Covid in the state reached 439. On Thursday, 10 patients were discharged from Sonepat, four each from Faridabad and Yamunanagar, two from Panipat and one from Palwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-cases-cross-800-mark/story-x3g2ldfc6QumxQW4YEu4fN.html
14-05-2020||Lucknow||Andhra woman, 8 others freed from temporary jail||A woman from Guntur district in Andhra Pradesh, who was lodged in the temporary jail for lockdown violation and allegedly suffered a miscarriage a few days ago, was released on Thursday along with nine others.“We lost our child. This was the first time she participated in the Jamaat,” said her husband Mohammad Rafi. They all left for their native place in Guntur.The woman Rizwana and nine others were arrested on April 3 from Lucknow and put in a quarantine centre, besides being booked for lockdown violation.On May 3, they were shifted to a temporary jail in Shri Ram Swaroop College here. “Since she was pregnant, I asked authorities as to when we would be released. They assured us saying we would be freed in a day or two. But this did not happen,” Rafi said.On May 9, the woman suffered a miscarriage. “We struggled a lot to take her to the hospital, get her examined medically. No one was ready to even touch us,” he added.Tablighi Jamaat Lucknow head Mohammad Anees said, “They had come here for a Jamaat. They suffered a lot. The woman lost her baby. I am happy that they have been released today.”A senior district administration official confirmed they had been released. “There is no complaint of medical negligence,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/andhra-woman-8-others-freed-from-temporary-jail/story-FbJDYtJDMLGLRQCkGpYq1O.html
14-05-2020||City||Thane sees highest one-day spike with 70 new cases||Thane recorded its highest 24-hour spike with 70 new Covid cases and five deaths on Thursday. The city has crossed 900 mark with the total touching 913. The total Covid deaths in Thane are 42.Sandeep Malvi, deputy commissioner of Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC), said, “Thane recorded 70 new cases on Thursday -- the highest one-day increase till date. Two women and three men, who were being treated for Covid, died.”A 28-year-old woman from Azadnagar is the second youngest woman to die after being infected. She was admitted to Thane civil hospital on May 10 and died on May 13. On Wednesday, a 22-year-old Covid positive woman had died.“A 70-year-old woman from Mumbra admitted to Thane civil hospital, a 55-year-old man from Wagale Estate admitted to Horizon Prime Hospital, a 39-year-old man and a 42-year-old man from Lokmanyanagar and Mumbra respectively died after testing positive for Covid. The slum areas of Lokmanyanagar Sawarkarnagar saw the highest increase of 30 cases followed by 19 cases in Wagale Estate.” With the cases increasing in Majiwada-Manpada areas, the TMC has issued orders to seal Waghbil, Kasarvadavli, Patlipada and Balkum from the midnight of May 15 to midnight of May 18. “All meat shops, fruits and vegetable shops and bakery shops in the area will be closed. Home delivery will not be allowed for these four days. Only medical and grocery stores and dairy shops will be open,” said a civic official.One more doctor from Kalwa hospital tests positiveA professor from medicine department has tested positive for Covid-19, taking the total number of infected doctors to six. A nurse and two security guards from the hospital had tested positive earlier. TMT driver dies A 52-year-old driver of Thane Municipal Transport (TMT) living in Bhandup, Mumbai, died at BYL Nair Hospital. TMT officials said the driver was on leave before he got infected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-sees-highest-one-day-spike-with-70-new-cases/story-W3ONPwPpHrWTY4OBcemlHP.html
14-05-2020||City||Breaking wheat-paddy cycle a must to save groundwater: CSSRI study||Breaking the traditional wheat-paddy cycle is the need of the hour to preserve groundwater for the future generations, reveals a research conducted by scientists of the Central Soil Salinity Research Institute (CSSRI), Karnal (Haryana).Asserting that the rice crop alone consumes about 50% of the total irrigation water, the researchers have suggested radical changes in the agricultural use of available water. ‘OPT FOR ROOT ZONE IRRIGATION’With five million hectares under rice cultivation in the country’s Indo-Gangetic plains of north west, including Punjab, Haryana and parts of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, it is the most important production area for India’s two staple cereals -- rice and wheat. The crops in this region are harvested on the cost of natural resources that leads to groundwater depletion and deterioration in soil and environmental quality, the scientists said. They have also advised the farmers to adopt root zone irrigation (RZI) over flood irrigation to save the groundwater. The research has suggested that RZI not only saves about 50% water, but also improves yields up to 20% by eliminating surface water evaporation with similar management practices over flood irrigation.OVER 3FT DECLINE IN GROUNDWATER EVERY YEAR The report also reveals that the decline of about 3-feet every year in the groundwater table between 1973 and 2001 has accelerated by five-fold between 2000 and 2006 in central Punjab and parts of Haryana. Moreover, during 2008-2012, the total freshwater withdrawals in India were about 761 billion cubic metre of which about 90% was used for agriculture. By 2050, the share of water for agricultural use will be less than 50% of the total water from the present share of 70%, the report read.‘MAIZE A GOOD ALTERNATIVE’Director of ICAR-CSSRI, Karnal, PC Sharma, said, “There is an immediate need to break the wheat-paddy cycle to save groundwater for the future generations.” He said that maize could be a better option for both wheat and paddy as it consumes 50% less water, but there is a need of assured marketing of maize such as wheat and paddy to divert farmers. “Both rice and wheat need 20% less nitrogen-based fertilisers under a subsurface drip fertigation (injection of fertilisers) system. It can improve ecosystem’s health and cut the emission of greenhouse gases,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/breaking-wheat-paddy-cycle-a-must-to-save-groundwater-cssri-study/story-Dw2Zperrefw8WecQkrEriM.html
14-05-2020||Lucknow||‘Stop Qaiserbagh from becoming a Dharavi’||‘Stop Qaiserbagh from becoming a Dharavi,’ said corporator Sayyed Yawar Hussain Reshu of JC Bose ward (in which a part of Qaiserbagh falls). He said, “As many as 20 covid positive cases have been reported in Qaiserbagh sabzi mandi area in last five days because no one was able to stop the residents from gathering at the places inside and around the mandi. We require a bit of strictness from the administration and police and we are ready to help them in every way. The chain of corona spread has to be broken or else people living in ghettos would be severely affected.”My only concern is that no one is taking the help of corporators in planning the strategies to counter the spread, corporators could be handy in giving the minutest details about their area, as they are in touch with everyone, said Sayyed Yawar Hussain Reshu. He said that there is a need to persuade the residents to come out and get tested if they acknowledge any symptom for coronavirus. The corporators could also be of help in the distribution of essential commodities and food supplied by community kitchens to the poor residents, said Reshu.Corporator of Nayagaon and part of Qaiserbagh Shafeeq Ur Rehman Chacha said, “I am always ready to help the authorities and reach out to the suspected residents. The area is densely populated and we require aggressive testing. I am happy that the administration has done it now but still, they need to reach out to more residents.”However, municipal commissioner Indramani Tripathi said, “We are taking the help of corporators in the distribution of food and food items to the poor; we are also gathering information about the number of people residing in the locality and those violating the lockdown and keep roaming on the streets. We are also using them for motivating the residents for coming out for test as it is for their benefit only.”District magistrate Abhishek Prakash said, “We have tested more than 400 people from the area and are in process of testing more. District administration along with police is working in coordination to identify, test and quarantine the suspects in the hotspots.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/stop-qaiserbagh-from-becoming-a-dharavi/story-Lm7u0Oo4M1VVIBbqFQ1t8J.html
14-05-2020||City||Short of money, Punjabis evacuated from Dubai refuse to be put in paid quarantine||“Due to lockdown, we had already fallen short of money at Dubai and were fed by others on humanitarian ground for around two months. We were shocked when we were asked to be put in paid quarantine at hotels on landing in our own country,” said Parminder Singh, who was among 178 Punjabis evacuated from United Arab Emirates (UAE) by a special Air India flight from Dubai on Wednesday.After they refused to stay at hotels, all the evacuees, including children and women, had to spend nearly the entire night inside the terminal of Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport here under police watch.The flight arrived at the airport at around 9.15 pm on Wednesday and the evacuees were forced to remain there till 4 am on Thursday. Later, 38 of them belonging to Amritsar were finally put in quarantine at Swami Vivekanand Drug De-Addiction and Rehabilitation Centre while the others were sent to their respective districts.“As we landed at the airport, the government staff gave a proforma to each of us to fill. For 14-day quarantine period, there were options of five various hotels, with charges ranging from Rs 1,000 to Rs 3,800 per head per day,” he said.“None of us had money to pay for hotel charges for 14 days. We did not have money to purchase even our ticket to return through special flights and some NGOs paid for us”, said Parminder, who belongs to the city and was staying at Dubai on work permit.“We had to stay in a closed terminal from 9.15 pm to around 4 am, which was no less than a nightmare for us,” said Harjit Kaur, who also belongs to Amritsar.In some videos shot by the passengers at the airport with their smart phones, chaos like situation prevailed inside, with norms of social distancing given a go by and parents seen purchasing costly milk for their kids.Additional deputy commissioner (ADC) Himanshu Aggarwal, said, “We had made quarantine arrangements in hotels as the Indians evacuated from other countries recently protested against being quarantined in government centres.”Denying chaos at the airport, he added, “For passengers’ facilitation, many of our officers spent hours at the airport to manage the things.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/short-of-money-punjabis-evacuated-from-dubai-refuse-to-be-put-in-paid-quarantine/story-nkVDcj9D1YRixVxCMNjY1O.html
14-05-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University seeks internal assessment of students online||Panjab University (PU) on Thursday directed its teaching departments and affiliated colleges to submit internal assessments of students online.The submission of internal assessments, which is usually completed in April, was delayed this year due to the lockdown amid the coronavirus outbreak. Now, the university has directed the departments and affiliated colleges to submit the internal assessments of undergraduate (UG) and postgraduate (PG) students and also the external practical award of final semesters of 2019-20 academic session online .A notice issued by the university’s controller of examinations read, “Teaching departments and affiliated colleges are requested to submit both the theory practical and internal assessment awards online on PU website.”Through the notice, it has been further clarified that only external practical awards of final semesters of UG and PG courses need to be submitted. Also, the affiliated colleges have been directed not to send hard copy of students’ internal assessments.Moreover, PU has informed that its website will be open for the submission of internal assessments for all semesters of UG and PG courses from June 17 to June 26. But the external practical awards of the final semesters can be submitted till July 2.However, PU senator Dalip Kumar said that the university should prepare practical award guidelines in order to facilitate timely completion of the task. “Norms for the conduct of practicals are to be defined. Besides, timeline and checklist should be prepared by the university in a comprehensive way,” Kumar added.An assistant professor at Sri Guru Gobind Singh College, Sector 26, Inderpal Singh Sidhu, who is also a PU senator, said, “There is a confusion that needs to be sorted as practicals were not completed in the colleges due to the lockdown.” “Now that the practical exams have also not been conducted, we need some mechanism to prepare a list of practical awards of students,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-seeks-internal-assessment-of-students-online/story-r4CLL5t6XJWkOHFTl0oWrO.html
14-05-2020||City||Unable to book train tickets, migrants start out on the arduous journey home on foot||New Delhi:Until Tuesday, 26-year-old Lala Ram Kewat lived at the construction site he worked at. With more than 50 days without a job and his paltry savings dwindling day-by-day, Kewat is now walking 463 kilometres to his village in Jhansi, Uttar Pradesh from his home Delhi’s Inderlok with his wife, two children and some friends.Behind him is a group of young men walking to Bihar’s Katihar. They offer to carry his seven-year-old, who is tired of walking. All these days, since the lockdown began, the young men, all of whom work as labourers, were staying at an under-construction site and were dependent on assistance from the local police for food.Abu Kalan, 19, the youngest in the group, says they could not arrange a train ticket to go home. “We don’t even have an internet-enabled phone. On Wednesday, eight of us walked to the New Delhi railway station to see if we could buy a ticket from the counter but the police refused to let us inside as we did not have valid e-tickets. We cannot live in Delhi anymore without a job,” he said.Starting Tuesday, the government began eight special trains, including three from Delhi, as a step towards restoration of passenger train services in a graded manner. The government had also started special Shramik trains to send stranded migrant workers back home. At least five Shramik trains have left for Madhya Pradesh and Bihar from the national Capital. But to avail of this service too, the passengers must apply online or through the district magistrate’s office for a seat. Government officials helped migrants who were staying in shelter homes but a majority of the migrant workers, however, were staying on their own at their workplaces such as construction sites, among others, who were not able to avail of direct help.Unable to register for Shramik trains or buy tickets online, migrant workers from across the city are starting out on foot back to their villages every night. The booking counters at railway stations are currently shut, which has rendered workers such as Kalan and Kewat helpless in getting a ticket.To avoid heat during the sunlight hours, the workers are covering the distance at night. They spend their days in parks near state highways trying to arrange food from good Samaritans or NGOs. The day is also the time they search for water -- each of them carries at least two bottles.On Thursday, the day temperature was 40 degrees Celsius in the national Capital while the minimum temperature the previous night was 24 degrees Celsius.“It is better to walk at night. It is difficult to walk with children during the day; they will faint. We stayed at the Jasola DDA district park today. The guard was kind enough to allow us to use the bathroom. He understood that we are travelling with our families. The trees in the park provided us with cover from the sun. It will take me at least five nights to reach Jhansi. We will start our journey again in the evening,” Kewat said.According to government officials, only 20% of migrant workers are now housed in state-run shelter homes and school premises. Apart from the government’s 223 shelters for the homeless, 256 school buildings were opened as shelter homes for tens of thousands of migrant workers who were stuck in Delhi.Bipin Rai, member, Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB), which is the nodal agency for arranging shelter for the homeless in the city, said that only about a fifth of the stranded migrants are now remaining at the shelters.“We have been appealing to them to stay back and return to work, as some sectors are opening up. Many have stayed back. Others living in rented rooms or shanties feel they have run out of money and won’t be able to survive longer. Also, there is a belief among most of them that the coronavirus (Covid-19) is an urban disease and that they will be safer in their villages, which they feel have so far not been infected by the virus,” said Rai.Sunil Aledia, a social activist who works for the homeless, said that most migrant workers leaving the city are those who live with their families. “They do not have money left to sustain themselves anymore. The NGOs give them food and rations but they don’t even have gas cylinders or utensils now. The government must find jobs for them if it does not want these thousands of migrant workers to leave.”As migrant workers continue to leave Delhi on foot, they say they have hope across the border. It took Kalan and his friends seven hours to walk the 39 km distance from Nangloi to Badarpur (Delhi’s border with Haryana) on Wednesday night.“Some of our friends found a taxi in Faridabad to cross Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. We hope we also find one. We may die walking to Bihar but we don’t have a choice,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/unable-to-book-train-tickets-migrants-start-out-on-the-arduous-journey-home-on-foot/story-PITPlbCfzJNqmDwCpanfeO.html
14-05-2020||Chandigarh||Most of Covid-19 positive Nanded returnees to be discharged in 2 days||In a big relief for Punjab, almost all the pilgrims who tested positive for Covid-19 after their return from Takht Hazur Sahib in Nanded, Maharashtra, will be discharged from various hospitals in the next two days.The health department has taken the decision under the new discharge policy issued by Union health ministry, which states that if any Covid-19 symptomatic patient undergoing treatment remains asymptomatic for three consecutive days, he or she can be discharged from the hospital without conducting RT-PCR test.“As almost all positive cases among pilgrims have remained asymptomatic ever since they were found positive after their testing between April 27 and April 29, we have decided to discharge them in the coming two days as per the new discharge guidelines,” said Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, health department’s spokesperson for Covid-19.A total of 4,220 pilgrims were brought to Punjab between April 25 and April 30, weeks after they were stuck at the Nanded gurdwara in the wake of the nationwide lockdown due to the Covid-19 outbreak. Of them, 1,225 pilgrims were found positive. However, almost all of them have remained asymptomatic. There were only mild symptoms of flu in a few positive cases found symptomatic, said health department functionaries.‘WILL FOLLOW 7-DAY HOME QUARANTINE’“Once discharged, the positive cases will be asked to strictly follow seven-day home quarantine as per the guidelines of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR),” Dr Bhaskar said.The discharge of pilgrims from hospitals will bring a sharp decline in the number of active cases in the state as out of 1,980 positive cases in Punjab so far, more than 60% were Nanded-returnees.In the past two days, 52 positive cases were discharged from various districts, taking the total tally of cured patients to 223.As per the protocol followed by the health department, the pilgrims were kept at institutional quarantine facilities and tests were done on all of them.Those who tested positive were sent to government hospital isolation wards, whereas those found negative were kept in quarantine facilities for 14 days. In negative cases, re-testing is done if any one develops symptoms.The health authorities have already sent pilgrims lodged in quarantine facilities to their homes as none of them developed any symptom in four-day period. These pilgrims will also follow seven-day home quarantine.The Covid-19 infection among a large number of Nanded-returnees had given rise to a major controversy in Punjab, with opposition parties accusing the state government of not following proper procedures in bringing the pilgrims back.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/most-of-covid-19-positive-nanded-returnees-to-be-discharged-in-2-days/story-Pa4MCIp8X0Esg4eMUZRODO.html
14-05-2020||City||Punjab education department gears up for distribution of books at homes in Mohali||After seeking permission from the Mohali administration, the Punjab school education department is now geared up to distribute books to students at home with the help of schools concerned.While the schools still remain closed, the state education department has divided the district into 8 blocks and appointed nodal officers to ensure that books are distributed while taking all precautions in wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) got the books printed till Class 12, but not all subjects are still available.District education officer (DEO, elementary), Gurpreet Kaur Dhaliwal, said, “Principals or centre heads will be given time slots to collect books. They will be required to get a list of students and collect books while wearing masks and practising social distancing.” Dhaliwal added, “After receiving the books, principals will then call students in lots to collect books. The school heads will only decide if the students have to called class-wise or subject-wise as depending on the strength of the school. Principals will ensure that there is no crowding and that proper social distancing norms are followed.” As of now the books have been supplied to Kharar that covers Mohali and Majri as well. However, not all books are available and supplies are dependent on the availability of books.“In order to ensure that there is no loss of studies, lessons are being shared online and through Whatsapp among the students. In some cases, the books of the outgoing students were also shared with the new students as a stopgap arrangement,” said DEO (secondary) Himmat Singh.However, a government school principal in Mohali requesting anonymity said that the school had not received any official information regarding distribution of books so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-education-department-gears-up-for-distribution-of-books-at-homes-in-mohali/story-JNVnX044UPCtjwuw3Ql6KM.html
14-05-2020||City||46 more test Covid positive in Bihar, tally rises to 999||PATNA Migrant workers to Bihar had an “infection rate” of 4.75%, which was double the state average, and contributed to 36% of the state’s total cases of Sars-CoV-2 that went up to 999, after 46 people tested positive for the virus Thursday.“A total 352 migrant workers had tested positive so far of the 7,500 samples tested randomly among those who reached Bihar after May 4. This meant the “infection rate” among the migrant workers was close to 5%,” said Bihar health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh.A total of 2.36% of the 40,782 Covid-19 samples tested were positive for Sars-CoV-2 till Thursday noon. Till recently, the same figure was 1.7% - 1.8%, said Singh. This meant that the “infection rate” among migrants was more than double the state’s average, leading to a spike in cases during lockdown 3.0.Of the 352 migrants who tested positive recently, 97 had come from Gujarat, 66 from Maharashtra, 22 from West Bengal, 17 from Haryana and 13 from Uttar Pradesh, he added. Besides, some had returned from other states, including Jharkhand, Telangana and Kerala.Singh, however, did not respond to this reporter’s query on Bihar’s Covid-19 testing rate per million population.Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar has already asked health officials to ramp up testing facilities for Covid-19 in the state.Bihar has only six approved government testing laboratories, of which four are in Patna and one each at the medical colleges of Muzaffarpur and Bhagalpur. The laboratory at the Jawahhar Lal Nehru Medical College Hospital, Bhagalpur, which commenced testing on May 3, has temporarily stopped Covid-19 testing because of shortage of cartridges. The laboratory had conducted 350 tests before it ran out of cartridges.“The chief minister wants testing of Covid-19 samples to be increased to at least 10,000 samples (in a day) as against 1,900-2,000 tests being done as of now. He wants the laboratory testing facility to be extended even to districts, and at the same time also ensure that there was no shortage of equipment and drugs across the state,” said Anupam Kumar, secretary of Bihar’s Information and Public Relations Department.Meanwhile, 25 Covid-19 patients were cured and discharged from different facilities during the last 24 hours, taking the total number of recoveries in the state to 411 so far. Seven people infected by the virus had died so far.Nine cases were reported from Purnea, six from Lakhisarai, five from Jehanabad, four from Khagaria, three each from Muzaffarpur, Banka, Nalanda, two from Sheikhpura, Rohtas, Vaishali , Supual, Khagaria and one each from Nawada, Bhojpur and Kishanganj on Thursday.Around 130 people had reported positive on May 12 in what was the biggest single-day spike in cases since March 22, when Bihar reported the first three cases of the fast spreading contagion.As of Thursday, Munger reported 122 cases, followed by Patna (99), Rohtas (77), Nalanda (66), Buxar (59), Begusarai (47), Siwan (38), Kaimur (33), Madhubani (31), Bhagalpur (32), Khagaria (36), Bhojpur (29), Jehanabad (26), West Champran, Nawada (25 each), Gopalganj (24), Aurangabad (18), Darbhanga, Muzaffarpur (16 each), East Champaran (15 each), Purnea (13), Banka (14), Katihar, Arwal, Lakhisarai (12 each), Samastipur, Sheikhpura (11 each), Saran, Saharsa, Kishanganj (10 each), Madhepura, Supaul (9 each), Gaya (8), Sitamarhi (7), Vaishali (6), Araria (4), Sheohar (3) and Jamui (1) till the time of going to the press.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/46-more-test-covid-positive-in-bihar-tally-rises-to-999/story-Cr99LI3NHkK69JlOQowxcN.html
14-05-2020||City||Covid-19: Jalandhar doc, 13 others test positive, Punjab tally 1,997||Fourteen more people, including a doctor from Jalandhar, tested positive for the coronavirus in Punjab on Thursday, taking with the tally of confirmed cases in the state to 19,97.In Patiala, a 34-year-old who returned from Majnu Ka Tilla Gurdwara in New Delhi was tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. He was among those 15 returnees who have been quarantined at a government school in Model Town. The patient belongs to Rajpura town and returned to the district three days ago. The district’s tally of cases now is 102.JALANDHAR 2ND DIST TO CROSS 200 MARKSeven persons, including a doctor, were found infected by the virus in Jalandhar. Six of the patients, aged between 27 and 58, are close contacts of those found positive earlier while one patient has no contact history, health department officials said.The health officials said two cops, including a deputy superintendent of police (DSP) who tested positive in Kapurthala, were also added to the district’s tally. With this, a total of 208 cases, including six deaths, have been reported in Jalandhar which became Punjab’s second district to cross the 200-mark after Amritsar.3 MORE CASES IN LUDHIANAThree new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) were reported in Ludhiana on Thursday, taking the total count in the district to 143.Those infected are a 71-year-old man of Lalto Kalan village, a 50-year-old woman of Bhai Himmat Singh Nagar near Dugri and a 37-year-old resident of Ambedkar Nagar locality. The 50-year-old woman is a wife of a tyre company employee who is among five of his colleagues found infected on Wednesday. The health department collected the sample of a woman, who is teaching at a school in Dugri after her husband, who also works in the tyre factory, was tested positive.The number of infected people in the district has now reached 143.2 NANDED RETURNEES INFECTED IN FARIDKOTTwo women, who returned from Takht Sri Huzur Sahib in Maharashtra’s Nanded recently, tested positive for the coronavirus in Faridkot district on Thursday, taking the tally of those infected in the district to 48.The two women, aged 49 and 60, were among five Huzur Sahib returnees, whose fresh swab samples were sent to the laboratory after results of their previous samples were reported inconclusive. Civil surgeon Dr Rajinder Kumar said they were admitted to the isolation ward of Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital, Faridkot, after they were tested positive. Earlier, they were kept at a quarantine facility.ANOTHER CASE IN RUPNAGARA 33-year-old man from Mahain village in Rupnagar district tested positive for Covid -19 on Thursday. He had returned from Himachal Pradesh recently and was home-quarantined. The health authorities have started his contact tracing.With this, the number of active Covid-19 positive cases in the district reached 56.18 RPF MEN FOUND INFECTED Eighteen more Railway Protection force (RPF) personnel were tested positive for Covid-19 in Ludhiana on Thursday. With this, the total number of RPF men infected with the virus in the city has reached 34.These cases, however, have not been added to Punjab’s tally, health department officials said. Reports of 10 RPF jawans were inconclusive and will be sent for testing again.These personnel came to Ludhiana from Delhi recently and were deployed at the city railway station for controlling crowd.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-jalandhar-doc-13-others-test-positive-punjab-tally-1-997/story-3e6MkISoTZOncokC14u5yN.html
14-05-2020||Lucknow||Allahabad HC notice to UP govt over labour laws relaxation||Allahabad high court on Thursday issued notice to state government on a public interest litigation (PIL) petition challenging the government order for dilution of certain labour laws, including the provisions of the Factories Act, 1948, in the state.On May 8, UP government had issued a notification relaxing the provisions relating to working hours, rest time and overtime among others.The notification exempts the application of the provisions of labour laws retrospectively from April 20 and will remain in force till July 19.The bench comprising chief justice Govind Mathur and justice Siddhartha Varma passed the order on PIL filed by UP Workers’ Front. The petitioner’s contention was that relaxation in labour laws was in violation of fundamental rights of labourers who were weaker section of the society and hence their right must be protected. The court fixed May 18 as next date of hearing in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/allahabad-hc-notice-to-up-govt-over-labour-laws-relaxation/story-jE8EjVdNplgqfU9dcUsZDK.html
14-05-2020||City||Miles to go: Six migrant workers pedalling their way to UP on three bicycles||Six days after beginning their journey on three bicycles from Punjab’s Jalandhar, six migrant workers who are on way to their homes in Uttar Pradesh’s (UP’s) Auraiya, reached Haryana’s Jhajjar on Thursday. The workers had decided to pedal all the way to their native place after being forced by circumstances amid the coronavirus lockdown.They alleged that their factory owners did not pay them their wages for March and since then, they were staying in shelter homes.After covering nearly 425 kilometres with swollen feet, one of the migrant labourers, Saurabh, said they started their journey on March 9 after Punjab government did not list their names among those who left for UP in buses.“We don’t have enough money to hire taxis for going home. We are tired, but the thought of returning home encourages us to pedal more, even in the humid weather. We are hopeful that we will reach our homes in the next three days,” he said.LOCALS PROVIDING FOODThe worker also hailed the locals, saying, “Residents of Haryana and Punjab are so kind-hearted that they provided us food, milk, water bottles and clothes to cover our faces throughout the way.”Another worker, Neeraj Kumar, alleged that the police were creating hurdles in their way. “The police personnel have been asking us to stay in shelter homes. Everyday, our 1-2 hours get wasted in convincing them to let us move ahead,” he said. “Moreover, the governments are working for rich people only. As we didn’t have work for the past 45 days, it is better to spend time with the family rather than remaining stranded in camps,” the migrant worker said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/miles-to-go-six-migrant-workers-pedalling-their-way-to-up-on-three-bicycles/story-bMY4qSziDWaMVfbBNWF2QJ.html
14-05-2020||Chandigarh||THREAT CHARGE- Channi, Tript Bajwa lock horns, accuse each other of lying||Punjab cabinet ministers Charanjit Singh Channi and Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa locked horns on Thursday over the latter’s threat to him after the showdown with chief secretary Karan Avtar Singh.Channi accused his cabinet colleague of lying about the threat he issued whereas Bajwa continued to deny that any such incident took place. Both ministers said they have left it to chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh and Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar to decide the matter even as some Dalit legislators of the party rallied in Channi’s support.The spat between the two ministers, which has exposed the sharp divide in the state council of ministers, is yet another twist in the raging controversy over the state’s excise policy in the Punjab government. Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar said the situation was unfortunate. “Coming after the incident involving the chief secretary, this was totally avoidable. I first had a word with Channi and then phoned Bajwa who I have asked to brief me. Whatever misunderstanding has happened between the two ministers, the party will resolve it,” he said.Bhoa legislator Joginder Pal was the first to talk about the alleged threat on Wednesday, stating that Bajwa threatened Channi with reopening of some old cases if he did not bury the hatchet with the chief secretary. Coming out in the open, Channi, while confirming the MLA’s claim, accused the rural development minister of threatening him with registration of a case. “He talked about registration of case. I told him you get the case registered first because I am not going buckle down under any pressure,” Channi told a television channel, accusing his ministerial colleague of lying.Channi, a Dalit leader, said he had received support from (AAP state unit president) Bhagwant Mann, some Akalis and a number of MLAs and other leaders of Congress who phoned him to express their support. The technical education minister said he spoke to the chief minister and the state Congress president and told them about the threat. “I have left it to them to decide what to do about it,” he said.Bajwa, on the other hand, flatly denied the charge, stating he had not threatened Channi. “I was with (finance minister) Manpreet Badal and Channi on the standoff with the chief secretary. I am still standing with them. The whole is being blown out of proportions. The chief minister and Jakhar can call us both and find out the truth,” the rural development minister said. He said the Bhoa MLA’s statement was part of local politics of their region. The two episodes where charges are being levelled and pressure tactics used by the Congress ministers and leaders on social media and television have left the party leadership red-faced besides giving ammunition to the opposition parties against the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/threat-charge-channi-tript-bajwa-lock-horns-accuse-each-other-of-lying/story-F1mdTI0bQkQAavPmHRR9gN.html
14-05-2020||Patna||Job generation: Industry dept profiles 77,000 migrant workers so far||Facing the challenge of generating employment for the migrant labourers returning home, the state industry department has profiled 77,000 workers till Thursday.The officials collected information about their skills, work experience and the kind of factories they have worked in previously. The data collection started a few weeks back as a part of the state government’s plan of skill mapping to provide suitable employment to the migrants who returned home amid lockdown following Covid outbreak.“We have prepared a data base of 77,000 workers by categorising them sector and block wise and taking their personal details like phone number and home address etc,” said industry minister Shyam Rajak. He said the data base will also have details of where they worked previously, the number of years spent in the factory and area of specialization.A large number of labourers who returned to the state were working in Maharashtra, Gujarat, Karnataka, Punjab , Delhi and Harayana . “The migrants profiled are experienced in multiple fields, including automobile, textile, plastic , laying floor tiles, brick soling and machinery. A good number of them are carpenters while others have worked in steel units. The number of workers profiled will increase in the next few days as the data collection is going on,” Rajak said.Meanwhile, the industry minister and industry department officers Friday will interact with all the district magistrates (DMs) to discuss avenues of job creation at local level. An official said the industry department has started working with the business bodies to encourage them to employ the migrant workers based on their skills so that employment is generated.Meanwhile, the state government has already increased the work hours in factories from 8 to 12 hours for next three months to enhance productivity, boost commercial activity following the contraction in the economy in the lockdown period. There are indications that the state government would further amend labour laws for giving more investors more incentives to set up industry in the state, as like other states like Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh.Previously, Bihar chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar had laid stressed on skill mapping in various districts as a way for providing employment to migrant workers who returned home in last few weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/job-generation-industry-dept-profiles-77-000-migrant-workers-so-far/story-USYRglrybKcYFm6JWyfVfP.html
14-05-2020||Chandigarh||Amarinder responsible for sorry state of affairs: AAP||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) senior leader and leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema on Thursday blamed chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh for the present mess in the state.Taking potshots at Congress ministers and MLAs, Cheema alleged that they were engaged in a typical street-like fight with the administrative top brass of the state. “This is the most the appropriate time for them to speak up for Punjab and Punjabis by exerting pressure on Amarinder to relinquish the charge of the CM,” he told reporters at a press conference. Kotkpura MLA Kultar Singh Sandhwan and several other party leaders were also present.Referring to ongoing spat between the ministers and bureaucrats, he stressed the need for a state-run liquor corporation in Punjab in tune with those set up by the Delhi and Tamil Nadu governments for better management and increase in excise revenue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amarinder-responsible-for-sorry-state-of-affairs-aap/story-91maaUR4DXbmaxBdo7hQtL.html
14-05-2020||Patna||Bihar tweaks discharge policy, makes one –ve follow up test must||The state government Thursday tweaked the discharge policy for Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infected patients on cure, by mandating one negative follow up result in the reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test before releasing all types of patients enrolled at the medical facilities for treatment.“The negative follow-up result is a must in all pre-symptomatic and symptomatic cases of Covid infection,” said principal secretary, health, Sanjay Kumar, adding that a notification to this effect was issued on Thursday.He said that the state’s discharge policy for Covid patients was more stringent than that of the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW). “They recommend the discharge after a few days without negative RT-PCR test, while the revised policy of the state recommends for one negative RT-PCR test,” he said.Earlier, pre-symptomatic and mild symptomatic patients were discharged from the Covid facility after 10-days of symptom onset and no fever in the last three days. Cases with moderate symptoms were also released if the patients’ fever resolved within three days and they maintained oxygen saturation about 95% for next four days without an oxygen support. A negative RT-PCR test was mandatory in severe cases.The amended policy, which has been sent to all the heads of all medical colleges and hospitals along with the administrative bosses of all the districts, is deemed to come into effect immediately. Officials said that additional negative test on positive patients before there release might have its added bearing on the existing resources for clinical testing.The change in release policy assumes considerable significance in view of the recent spike in Covid cases, following the return of migrants from different parts of the country and chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar’s insistence to go for rigorous testing of suspected cases.Officials said that the CM had recently directed the health department officials to ensure clinical testing of around 10,000 persons daily compared to the previous 1,800-2,000 RT-PCR testing. Kumar, during his recent video-conferencing with PM Modi had asked for more testing kits urgently.The number of Covid positive cases had reached 966 (till the filing of this report) on Thursday from just 66 on April 14, in the state. Samples of 42,000 persons were clinically examined for Covid at six out of seven facilities of the state government. Testing at Bhagalpur-based government medical college and hospital has been discontinued due to lack of facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-tweaks-discharge-policy-makes-one-ve-follow-up-test-must/story-cwxhjYV5g6Mysq1wy4PZHI.html
14-05-2020||City||ST buses have ferried 12,000 migrants from Thane district||Since Monday, the Thane police have ferried 12,000 migrants from Thane district in 550 State Transport (ST) buses to Madhya Pradesh border. On Thursday, state home minister Anil Deshmukh flagged off four buses at Rajnouli junction in Bhiwandi.“The police department has done a good job by making the proper list of migrants, arranging the buses and arranging for food packets for them,” said Deshmukh. Around 22 migrants can travel in one bus.According to the Thane police, 127 buses ferried 3,259 migrants from Thane and Bhiwandi on Thursday. From May 10 to May 13, a total of 430 buses took 9,000 migrants from Bhiwandi and Thane. Till May 14, a total of 12,000 migrants had been ferried 550 ST buses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/st-buses-have-ferried-12-000-migrants-from-thane-district/story-0y6O8BGH1Rd0q9oYMxsfeP.html
14-05-2020||City||Elderly in Hisar get a helping hand||To extend a helping hand to senior citizens residing alone here, a local NGO ‘Care for Ours’ has decided to provide free medical facilities to them.A senior oncologist Arun Agrawal, computer educationist Yogendra and Sandeep Beniwal run the NGO. They have provided the phone numbers that they can be contacted on in case of an emergency on various social media platforms and are in the process of launching their website.District social welfare officer DS Saini said that the NGO contacted their department to discuss the cause.He said that there are many senior citizens residing alone in the city.“Due to the lockdown, they are unable to go out to get medicines and other necessities. The organisation will help such persons. They will only charge for the medicines while rest of the facilities will be completely free,” Saini said.Arun Agrawal said, “I personally know many aged persons who are unable to go out of their houses due to the lockdown. Usually when such people need medical help no one comes forward.”“We will be providing pick and drop service in ambulance or any other vehicle in case of an emergency. We have provided our phone numbers online to be contacted for the same,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/elderly-in-hisar-get-a-helping-hand/story-hXsa7ECbdHq3mHxF0Hjh8K.html
14-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s MCM DAV College holds 2-day webinar on e-learning||The internal quality assurance cell and mass communication department of Mehr Chand Mahajan DAV College for Women organised a two-day webinar titled ‘Designing and developing e-learning’ on Thursday. The webinar envisioned to facilitate the faculty in coping with this disruption by exploring the nuances of digital learning. With the participation of over 100 faculty members of the college, the webinar had Archana R Singh, professor at School of Communication Studies, Panjab University; Anu Dua Sehgal, a social media strategist and content creator; and Neha Jindal, assistant professor at Symbiosis International (Deemed) University, Pune, as the resource persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-mcm-dav-college-holds-2-day-webinar-on-e-learning/story-n6SMmqcqMvyY48MBktLxdN.html
14-05-2020||Chandigarh||Two-third Punjab liquor vends stay shut, GoM meets contractors today||Nearly 65% of a total of 5,800 liquor vends in Punjab remained closed on Thursday, a day after chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh announced a relief of ₹760 crore to the contractors for the losses incurred by them during the 45 days of the lockdown period (from March 23 to May 6). A meeting between the liquor contractors and a group of ministers comprising Manpreet Singh Badal (finance), Vijay Inder Singla (education) and Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria (housing and urban development) will be held on Friday to look into the issue. As per reports, the sale of liquor was negligible in various districts. While most vends remained shut in Patiala and south Malwa on Thursday, some traders opened their shops in Sangrur and Jalandhar for a while. In Amritsar, a few vends were open but had no buyers. Of the 350 vends in Bathinda district, only nine opened. Ferozepur deputy excise and taxation commissioner HPS Gotra said all 132 vends of 11 groups remained open. In Ludhiana, liquor contractors kept their vends closed. The district has 750 vends. A delegation of contractors held a meeting with deputy excise and taxation commissioner Pawan Garg and announced to open the vends from Friday.CONTRACTORS’ GROUSEThe vend owners say actual losses are more than that of 45 days and the government should rework the annual quota. The state government had allowed opening of vends from May 7 after having imposed curfew on March 23. Of the 686 groups Punjab is divided for sale of liquor, the government was unable to sell 14% of them due to the lockdown. Deep Malhotra, who has major stakes in liquor business in the Malwa belt said, “Quota should be fixed for the first quarter of the year which could be reviewed later on depending on the situation. Vends are not opening because traders want clarity on all the issues.” A liquor contractor with business interests in Pathankot and Sangrur said, “Besides the lockdown days, we apprehend extra loss of 30% in business due to the closure of taverns (ahatas), marriage palaces, restaurants, clubs, bars, besides an exodus of migrants to their home states.” “Due to the lockdown, the purchasing power of consumers suffered badly and it will have a direct bearing on liquor purchase. The number of opening hours of vends have also been reduced,” said another contractor, asking the government to keep in mind all the factors while framing the excise policy. Earlier, the excise and taxation, and finance departments had suggested not to extend the period of contract for liquor vends beyond March 31, 2021, which was opposite to the contractors’ demand. On Wednesday, CM Amarinder approved the finance department’s recommendation to provide proportionate adjustment of ‘minimum guarantee quota’ for the losses incurred in the 9 days of lockdown in March (2.5% cut from total revenue quota of ₹5,675 crore), which comes out to ₹141 crore. In the current financial year, relaxation of 10% (₹620 crore) was approved of a total of ₹6,200 crore revenue projection.(Inputs from Ludhiana, Patiala, Bathinda, Jalandhar, Sangrur and Amritsar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-third-punjab-liquor-vends-stay-shut-gom-meets-contractors-today/story-vANImi6qEJyyzfCTCzB69J.html
14-05-2020||City||Infected mother gives birth to healthy girl in Rohtak||A 25-year-old coronavirus-infected woman of Jhajjar’s Bahadurgarh has given birth to a healthy baby girl at the Post-graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) in Rohtak.Dr Vandana Bhuriya, professor and spokesman of the gynaecology department at PGIMS, said this is the first baby to be born to a corona-infected patient in Haryana.“The 25-year-old was nine month pregnant when she had tested positive for coronavirus on May 11 during a random sampling. Her family had tested negative for the virus. She is undergoing treatment at PGIMS. She complained of labour pain on May 12 midnight. Following this, doctors took her to emergency ward via green corridor,” she said.“Doctors, nurses and medical staff carried out the delivery wearing PPE kits. The woman has delivered a baby girl through caesarean. Both the mother and the child are stable,” she added. Doctors had collected samples of the baby for Covid-19 test, which tested negative.‘Baby being fed artificial milk’Dr Jagital Dalal, professor of neonatology at PGIMS, said the baby is in neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) and her mother in the general ward of covid patients at PGIMS.“There is no proof to suggest that the virus can be transmitted to the baby through breastfeeding, but as a preventive measure, we have kept the newborn away from her mother. She is being fed artificial milk,” Dr Dalal added. A nurse arranged a WhatsApp video call for the woman to see her baby.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/infected-mother-gives-birth-to-healthy-girl-in-rohtak/story-RtPKAD1kOf10Nxz6odaPqO.html
14-05-2020||City||PSPCL should announce relaxation in bill payment: Lok Insaaf Party||Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) spokesperson Gagandeep Singh, alias Sunny Kainth, held a protest at Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) central zone office on Thursday against the electricity department demanding consumers to pay the bills during the Covid-19 lockdown.He met DPS Grewal, engineer-in-chief, PSPCL central zone, and requested him not to disconnect the connections of defaulters as many are facing financial troubles in such time of crises.“I took the call of meeting the official after I received several complaints from consumers who said that they are being threatened to pay the power bills by some staff members who go for meter-reading and if they failed to do so, their connection would be snapped. I also carried around 1,000 bills of residents who had approached me,” he said.“We collectively need to support each other at this time. Rather than burdening the consumers with penalty, PSPCL should announce further relaxation for the people who are devastated due to lockdown,” he said.A party spokesperson said that DPS Grewal has assured him that power connections will not be cut at this time.“PSPCL has already announced that no connection will be disconnected during the lockdown. However, we urge the consumers to pay the bills on time. Meanwhile, I have not given any assurance regarding the extension of relaxation of penalty on late bill payment which was till May 10,” said DPS Grewal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pspcl-should-announce-relaxation-in-bill-payment-lok-insaaf-party/story-VFofhYZtIwmDCd2aqZt7WO.html
14-05-2020||City||Hisar biologist reinstated as Covid quarantine in-charge||The Hisar-based biologist, who was transferred to anti-malaria unit on May 11, has been reinstated as the quarantine in-charge. Chief medical officer Dr Yogesh Sharma confirmed the development and said, “Earlier, the deputy chief medical officer had ordered to transfer biologist Ramesh Punia to the malaria control unit. The order has now been reversed and Punia has been given charge of Covid-19 quarantine operations.” He maintained that there was no political pressure on the health department.Punia’s transfer had also drawn Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) chief Kumari Selja attention, who, on her official Twitter account, asked Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar to look into the matter.Punia on Thursday released a video on his social media account and thanked CM Khattar and health minister Anil Vij for his reinstatement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hisar-biologist-reinstated-as-covid-quarantine-in-charge/story-n4pb0K33HAnuL9xfa7ycpJ.html
14-05-2020||City||Panvel records 20 new cases, crosses 200 mark||The total number of Covid cases in Panvel has crossed the 200 mark with 20 new cases being reported on Thursday. The total in Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) jurisdiction is 219.Among the new cases are a 47-year-old Mumbai police constable from Kharghar; two of a family of a Covid positive BEST conductor from Kharghar; a 54-year-old BEST conductor from Kalamboli; a 32-year-old APMC tempo driver from Kharghar; a 23-year-old vegetable vendor, from Kharghar; a 37-year-old Mumbai police constable living in Kamothe; a 42-year-old nurse of a Mumbai hospital living in Kalamboli; a 55-year-old policeman from Govandi police station living in Kharghar; and 46-year-old fruit vendor from New Panvel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panvel-records-20-new-cases-crosses-200-mark/story-yB6SKcqon9xxdfb3GhEFEP.html
14-05-2020||Lucknow||4 trains to run daily from New Delhi, no money to be charged from migrant labourers: UP CM Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday said a decision has been taken to run four trains daily from New Delhi to the state and no money will be charged from migrant labourers for the special trains arranged on the state’s request. The chief minister also asked officials to impose a fine of Rs 100 on those who are not wearing masks or covering their faces.  “The CM has decided that no money will be charged from migrant labourers travelling in trains run on the state’s request to the railways. For this, advance payment will be given to the railways. It has also been decided to impose a fine of Rs 100 on those not wearing masks or covering their faces,” Additional Chief Secretary, Home and Information, Awanish Kumar Awasthi told reporters here. “A decision has also been taken to run four trains daily from New Delhi to UP. This might start from Friday. Besides this, trains will also be run from Ghaziabad, Saharanpur and Noida to send migrant labourers to their homes in UP and other states too,” he said. Awasthi said so far 318 trains have brought 3.84 lakh migrant labourers to UP from other states, while 72,637 people, including students, have been brought by roadways buses. He said that a total of 67 trains are scheduled to arrive in the state on Thursday. The maximum number of 49 trains have arrived in Gorakhpur, bringing over 52,000 people, followed by Lucknow where 34 trains have brought back over 40,000 people. He said that from Gujarat 174 trains have come to the state, while from Punjab and Maharashtra 59 and 51 trains arrived, respectively. “The data of all those coming is being collected and they will be given work as per their skills in the days to come. Those who are brought after medical tests are being sent to home quarantine with food packets,” he said, adding that strict directives have been issued by the chief minister that no migrants should come on foot or use two wheelers. “The government is committed to bringing them back,” he said. The chief minister, he said, has directed to increase per day testing capacity for COVID-19 to 10,000 and ensure that ventilators available are active and working, and maximum number of medical staff should be given training for it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/4-trains-to-run-daily-from-new-delhi-no-money-to-be-charged-from-migrant-labourers-up-cm-adityanath/story-zafKpIIqRoYEylCaWFLaRL.html
14-05-2020||City||Navi Mumbai Covid cases nears 1,000 mark||Navi Mumbai is fast approaching the 1,000 mark of Covid 19 cases. With 64 new cases on Thursday, the city’s total tally is 974.A total 53 patients were discharged from hospitals.On Thursday, 13 cases were reported from Nerul, 12 cases were reported from Kopar Khairane and Airoli each, five from Belapur, Vashi, Turbhe and Ghansoli each and seven from Digha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navi-mumbai-covid-cases-nears-1-000-mark/story-af1ZKthNVFKRM0ZNlEYV4H.html
14-05-2020||City||Shops in Ludhiana to open for counter sales from 7am to 6pm||Following directions by the state government, Ludhiana deputy commissioner Pradeep Agrawal has further relaxed the timings for counter sales in shops. Now, shops will remain open for counter from 7am to 6pm. Only those shops, which have already received permission, will be allowed to open. These include shops selling essential goods, electric fans, air conditioners (ACs) and its repair, electricians, supply of books, stationery shops, vehicle repair and supply of spare parts, supply of electrical and sanitary goods, supply of construction material such as cement, bricks, sand, plywood, glass etc, supply of inverters, plumber and carpenter services and supply of hardware and paints.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shops-in-ludhiana-to-open-for-counter-sales-from-7am-to-6pm/story-H4pfg4WGU7MDebA9NwxIKN.html
14-05-2020||City||CBSE asks schools to conduct exams for failed class 9 and 11 students||New Delhi: The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has directed all its affiliated schools to conduct examinations online or offline for the students of classes 9 and 11 who have failed in their previous attempts this year.The decision was taken as a lot of queries from the distressed students and parents were coming to the board.In a notification issued by Sanyam Bhardwaj, CBSE’s controller of examinations, the board said the country was going through a stressful time and the students who had failed in class 9 or 11 would be even more upset than the others. An attempt should be made to relieve them of this stress, he added.The board has taken this decision as a one time measure due to the extraordinary situation that arose because of the Covid-19 pandemic, the notification said. The notification also said that students would be given time to prepare before their examinations are held again.According to the board, opportunities will be extended to students irrespective of whether their exams have been completed, or results have been released. The facility is to be extended irrespective of the number of subjects and attempts.Union HRD Minister Dr. Ramesh Pokhriyal shared this information along with the CBSE notification on Twitter. “In view of the unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19, I have advised all CBSE schools to provide an opportunity to all students, who have failed in 9th and 11th to take online/offline tests,” the minister said.As per the board, all CBSE affiliated schools can conduct the “online/offline/innovative examination” and may decide the promotion of the students on the basis of their performance in the test.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cbse-asks-schools-to-conduct-exams-for-failed-class-9-and-11-students/story-BhrovZou0PludCzQcM7E0I.html
14-05-2020||Lucknow||31 fresh Covid-19 cases in UP, tally rises to 3,789||With 31 fresh infections, the number of coronavirus cases in Uttar Pradesh rose to 3,789 on Thursday, officials here said.There are 1,730 active cases in the state, while 1,973 people have been discharged from hospitals after recovery, Principal Secretary (Health) Amit Mohan Prasad told reporters.The testing capacity in Uttar Pradesh has been increased. As many as 5,833 COVID-19 tests were conducted across the state on Wednesday, which is a record, he said.“We are emphasising on surveillance and over 3 crore people have been surveyed by 73,131 teams in UP. Those having symptoms (of COVID-19) have been given required treatment,” Prasad said.So far, the number of fatalities due to COVID-19 stands at 86.Agra has reported the maximum number of deaths in the state at 24, followed by 14 from Meerut; nine from Moradabad; six from Kanpur Nagar; and four each from Firozabad and Mathura.Three deaths each have been reported from Aligarh and Gautam Buddh Nagar; two each from Ghaziabad and Jhansi; and one each from Sant Kabir Nagar, Hapur, Lalitpur, Allahabad, Etah, Mainpuri, Bijnore, Kanpur Dehat, Amroha, Bareilly, Basti, Bulandshahr, Lucknow, Varanasi and Shravasti. PTI ABN DIV DIV||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/31-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-up-tally-rises-to-3-789/story-h9nPbo8n2hJkvM9RpKxiBK.html
14-05-2020||City||Covid positive woman delivers healthy baby, recovers||A 35-year-old Covid patient, who was admitted to Hiranandani Hospital Vashi, gave birth to a healthy baby girl on May 8. The woman had tested positive in her 36th week of her pregnancy.Dr Manjiri Mehta, department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, said, “At 36 weeks, the patient was due on May 9. But we had to perform a Caesarean Section on May 8. The patient delivered a healthy baby weighing 3kg.”After the delivery, both mother and child were tested. Both tested negative for Covid-19 and were discharged on May 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-positive-woman-delivers-healthy-baby-recovers/story-ISFmcFMuoEuMQrlpXnwyvM.html
14-05-2020||City||100th train carrying migrants departs from Ludhiana railway station||The 100th train carrying migrants in Punjab to their home states departed from the Ludhiana railway station on Thursday. Till date, more than 1.35 lakh migrants, including around 1.20 lakh adults and 15,000 children, have left for Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Manipur, Andhra Pradesh, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh on special Shramik trains from Punjab.The first train carrying migrants had departed from Jalandhar on May 5. A total of seven special trains took 8,400 labourers to their native places on Thursday. Mau (Uttar Pradesh) bound train that departed from Railway Station Ludhiana today was the 100th train from Punjab and 39th from Ludhiana.In a press statement, Vikas Pratap, principal secretary, public works department (building and roads), who is also the state nodal officer for coordination with the railways, informed that the trains are departing from Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Patiala, Ajitgarh (Mohali), Amritsar, Ferozepur, Sirhand and Bathinda on a daily basis and each train carries around 1,200 migrants.He further added that the Punjab government is paying for travel, food, water and pickup service from designated points. He also said that medical screening of all passengers is being done and medical certificates are being issued to the labourers before boarding. Ludhiana deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal said to increase credibility, the district administration is putting a barcode on the medical slip, which is being issued to the passengers. The barcode is scanned when the passenger reaches Guru Nanak Stadium for screening and getting tickets.Meanwhile, rain added to the woes of the migrants undergoing mandatory screening at Guru Nanak Stadium, with many of them seen taking shelter underneath buses to avoid being drenched.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/100th-train-carrying-migrants-departs-from-ludhiana-railway-station/story-JVFYH3bsRLLNwicuHrEhVN.html
14-05-2020||City||Man arrested for raping nine-year-old daughter in Greater Noida||A 30-year-old man was arrested Thursday for allegedly raping his nine-year-old daughter at their home in Greater Noida. The suspect worked at a car washing agency and lived with his wife and daughter.Police said the crime took place on Wednesday night, when the suspect in an inebriated condition sexually assaulted his minor daughter. “The suspect locked up his wife in another room and raped the girl,” Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said.The girl’s mother informed the police and a team from Surajpur police station reached the spot. “However, the suspect had fled the spot y then. The girl was sent for a medical examination, which confirmed rape. Based on a complaint given by her mother, we registered an FIR under Section 376 (rape) and Section 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act,” Chander said.On Thursday the suspect was arrested from Sector 144 area, again in an inebriated condition. Police said the suspect is an alcoholic. “He was produced before a magistrate and sent to judicial custody,” Chander said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-arrested-for-raping-nine-year-old-daughter-in-greater-noida/story-5DyQuJfLY3fMPQkYWD3rJK.html
14-05-2020||City||TMC’s health dept staffer tests positive||Eight employees of Thane Municipal Corporation’s (TMC) health department have been quarantined after their 50-year-old colleague tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday.Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of TMC, said, “A 50-year-old woman clerk of the health department whose office is on the fourth floor of TMC headquarters has tested positive. The department staffers have been working overtime to get daily updates of coronavirus cases, death toll and recovery rate among others. The clerk is a resident of Kalyan and had not reported to work since Friday.”The eight employees, who are the woman’s close contacts, have been home quarantined and the office has been sealed.The number of coronavirus cases in the city has crossed 850 and the health workers in the city are one of the worst-hit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tmc-s-health-dept-staffer-tests-positive/story-mBjTrDXI91oPFHvx0wsvrN.html
14-05-2020||City||KDMC records eighth Covid death||Five days after a 35-year-old man from Kalyan (East) died at Neon Covid hospital, his Covid test report shows he was infected.This is the eighth Covid death in Kalyan-Dombivli.The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) health department said the man had fever and after his health deteriorated, he was admitted to Neon Covid hospital on Kalyan-Shil road. “He was tested for Covid but he died on May 10. We came to know that he went to many hospitals for treatment and by the time he was admitted to Neon, his condition had deteriorated,” said Pratibha Panpatil, epidemic officer, KDMC.“His cremation was performed following all the protocol as it was a suspected Covid case,” said Patil.After his death, KDMC has quarantined 18 of his high-risk contacts, who will be tested.On Thursday, KDMC recorded six new cases of Covid-19, taking the toll to 391.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kdmc-records-eighth-covid-death/story-AaZzpuS0z7yXzpu79TGQSP.html
14-05-2020||City||Mechanism in place for those sneaking into Mohali dist||Mohali’s district magistrate Girish Dayalan has ordered a strong mechanism to be put in place to check unauthorised entry of persons and vehicles from the other states into the district. It has been decided that all such people will be screened to stop the spread of Covid–19.Furthermore, the sarpanches and lambardars of villages in the district are to inform the SDM/ sector officer or chief nodal officer concerned, about such persons, as and when they reach their villages. In case of municipal committees and municipal corporations, it is the municipal councillors or municipal commissioners and the executive officer concerned who are to inform the SDM, sector officer or the nodal officer. As and when such a report is received by these officials, a rapid response team (RRT) of the sector, in which the area falls, will be activated and medical screening of such persons will be done. Civil surgeons will also make sure that RRTs inform the SMO concerned and the district control room about anyone found symptomatic, in which case the person will be tested immediately and the health department’s protocol is to be followed. The supervisory officer of the area and surveillance officer are to ensure from time to time, that all such persons are following the protocol. The data of all such persons who have reached villages, towns or cities by sneaking in through unauthorised entry points must be shared by the chief nodal officer with the district control room or state control room and the civil surgeon who will organise the screening..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mechanism-in-place-for-those-sneaking-into-mohali-dist/story-dVAw5ONQg4jvzhBPA3Q21J.html
14-05-2020||Pune||PMC braces for austerity plan in light of lockdown||Against the background of Covid-19, the Pune municipal commissioner has instructed the civic body to prepare a plan for austerity measures in view of the reduction in income because of the lockdown. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has been asked to restrict expenditure on unnecessary items and new schemes, PMC officials, requesting anonymity, said.The state government recently issued letters to all municipal corporations and warned them to review the budget. According to officials all municipal corporations have been asked to review the ongoing schemes and postpone or scrap the schemes that are not important.Hemant Rasane, PMC standing committee chairman said, “Due to Covid-19, a different situation has been created. It is just the beginning of the financial year and we are observing the situation closely. I have instructed the department heads to give details regarding their expenditure related to Covid-19. If necessary, we will postpone or scrap the schemes.”Municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said that it is expected that all the government agencies will get less revenue. By considering the income side in future, the expenditure should also be managed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-braces-for-austerity-plan-in-light-of-lockdown/story-A0UEaUwfRUUkUUzQvnEGkO.html
14-05-2020||City||Court extends AAP MLA Jarwal’s police custody by 4 days||New Delhi: A Delhi court on Thursday extended the police custody of Prakash Jarwal, AAP MLA from Deoli, and his aide Kapil Nagar, by four days and sent him to custodial interrogation till May 18 after he was arrested on charges of extortion and abetment to suicide of a 52-year-old doctor last month, stating that custodial interrogation is necessary in the case.In a statement issued earlier when police had booked Jarwal, he had said that he was innocent and that he had not he man for eight or 10 months. “I have proved myself innocent in the past and I will do so now too,” Jarwal had said.Duty Metropolitan Magistrate Harshita Mishra said that a lot of investigation work still remains to be done and several material and facts are yet to be ferreted.“……I find considerable merit in the submissions of the Investigating officer (IO). Despite, grant of 4 days police custody initially, a lot of investigative work still remains to be done and several material facts still need to be ferreted out. Recovery of mobile phone of the accused, Jarwal, which is very vital lead, is still to be affected and even the money trail is to be fully established.“Confrontation of the accused persons with other aggrieved persons and Delhi Jal Board (DJB) officials is yet to be done,” the judge said.The police had sought custody of six days contending that Jarwal is not co-operating in the investigation and have been evasive. The investigation officer, Kumar Rajeev, further submitted that a carefully drafted questionnaire had been given to the accused to get their response regarding the material facts of the case.The police submitted that, however, the accused persons had doggedly failed to reply to them. The IO also told the court that several appalling facts have been revealed from the diary of the deceased which was recovered by the police. He said they have widened the scope of investigation.However, countering these submissions, advocates BS Joon, Mohammad Irshad and Ravi Drall , for the accused, informed the court that the FIR has been registered with malice and political vendetta to tarnish the image of the accused. They said that allegations levelled against the duo are “false and fabricated”.The court also said it cannot be “oblivious and unmindful of the fact that investigation is at a nascent stage and denying further police custody as sought, would tantamount to putting road blocks in the way of effective and expeditious investigation, which still has considerable way to go”.“Court cannot, while adjudicating on a police custody application, adopt an entirely accused-centric approach, unmindful of the prevailing public and societal interest, which hangs in balance. Investigation has to proceed fairly and in an unimpeded and unhindered manner.“In light of the above facts and circumstances, I am of the opinion that the police remand of four days is justified,” the court said.Jarwal and Nagar were arrested by the Delhi police on Saturday after a court had issued non-bailable warrant against the duo. A case was registered against the two after the doctor’s son blamed them for his father’s death on April 18. The doctor also supplied water tankers to the Delhi Jal Board. The family had accused Jarwal of extortion, an allegation denied by the MLA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/court-extends-aap-mla-jarwal-s-police-custody-by-4-days/story-dJarUZH66ELiOGtAxGo3OP.html
14-05-2020||Bangalore||Oppn against Karnataka govt’s proposed ordinance on APMC||Opposition parties, including the JDS on Thursday came out against the Karnataka government’s proposal to amend the laws governing the Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMC), claiming that the move would curtail its powers and also affect the farmers’ interests. The state cabinet to meet this evening is likely to clear an ordinance, which according to government sources is aimed at bringing in reforms to facilitate market access for farmers and usher in APMC reforms. Terming as “incorrect” the government’s move to amend APMC Act through an ordinance at a time when the state was fighting COVID-19, JDS Supremo Deve Gowda in a series of tweets said the government should withdraw it as it was being done without consulting the farmer community and discussing in the assembly. Expressing apprehension that farmers will fall prey to exploitation of capitalists and multinational companies if APMC laws were diluted, he said, there will no protection for ryots if this was done. Gowda’s son and former Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy has warned government of agitation if it goes ahead with the ordinance. Describing the step as ‘submission’ to multinational companies, he said, subjecting farmers to such a risk amounts to “breaking our own back bone.” Alleging that the state government was bringing the amendment at the behest of the Centre, Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah said it was against the Constitution as agriculture was the state subject. The move will destroy the agriculture sector, he claimed. The state government is said to have taken the ordinance route to amend the APMC Act following the Centre’s suggestion to adopt its Model Agricultural Produce and Livestock Marketing (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2017. The BJP-ruled Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat have already made amendments to the APMC Act. The proposed amendment to agriculture produce marketing committee laws is aimed at removing restrictions on sale of farm produce and allowing farmers to sell their produce anywhere. Recently, Governor Vajubai Vala had returned the ordinance citing procedural reasons, and had asked the cabinet approve it first. The government had earlier planned to take post-facto approval from the Cabinet for the ordinance. The cabinet is also likely to approve an ordinance to amend labour laws in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/oppn-against-karnataka-govt-s-proposed-ordinance-on-apmc/story-9dSW2irHosU5XMKySM9ArO.html
14-05-2020||City||Covid curfew: Shops in Mohali to open from 7am to 6pm from May 15||Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan on Thursday ordered that in accordance with the revised curfew relaxation hours declared by the state government with effect from May 15, shops and commercial establishments in the district can remain open from 7am to 6pm. However, residents must avoid using vehicles. The timings were earlier 7am to 3pm.Dayalan said the movement of persons will be allowed only to and from workplace from 7am - 7pm on producing ID card issued by the employer. Besides, nobody shall move about unnecessarily for non-essential work. The timings of public dealing in banks will be 9am to 1pm. Four-wheelers will be allowed with a maximum of two passengers besides the driver, while pillion riders on two-wheelers are not permitted. Any violation will invite criminal proceedings under the relevant provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-curfew-shops-in-mohali-to-open-from-7am-to-6pm/story-xBr6vcquswHzbISRv0ZTFM.html
14-05-2020||Gurugram||Online booking, wearing masks must to board Haryana transport buses plying starting tomorrow||Online booking and wearing masks will be must for passengers boarding the Haryana Roadways buses which are to start plying on select routes in the state from Friday, said Transport Minister Mool Chand Sharma. “No passenger will be allowed to board the bus if online booking has not been done. The bus services will be point-to-point on select routes and wearing masks is mandatory. Thermal screening of passengers will also be done,” Sharma told PTI over phone on Thursday. The Haryana government has already sanitised its bus terminals and the ordinary non-air-conditioned buses which will hit roads, he said. To ensure that social distancing is strictly followed, only 30 passengers will be allowed to board the 52-seater buses. In the bus terminuses too, passengers will have to maintain social distancing in the waiting area, he said. The buses will ply from depots in Ambala, Bhiwani, Hisar, Kaithal, Karnal, Narnaul, Panchkula, Rewari, Rohtak and Sirsa and ply on select point-to-point routes. Digitally addressing a press conference on Wednesday, Haryana Chief Minister M L Khattar had announced that public transport will resume operation in the state on an “experimental basis” from Friday, with a limited number of buses plying on select routes. A government spokesman, meanwhile, said the buses, which will ply within Haryana, will not be started in areas severely affected by COVID-19. He said bookings for these buses can only be done through the online portal www.hartrans.gov.in. “The buses will ply from the Haryana State Transport bus stands to the scheduled bus stands. No passenger will be allowed to board or disembark the bus on the way,” he added. He said in a statement that the buses passing through worst-hit COVID-19 affected districts will pass through a bypass or flyovers. Notably, Gurgaon, Faridabad, Sonipat and Jhajjar are among the worst-affected districts in Haryana. He said if the bus movement is not possible on any route due to any reason then passengers will be informed two hours before the scheduled time of departure. The fare paid by the passenger will be refunded, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/online-booking-wearing-masks-must-to-board-haryana-transport-buses-plying-starting-tomorrow/story-J1vi76N6BJmYEV93PUPXDM.html
14-05-2020||Chandigarh||Social security pensions distributed three to six months in advance in HP||Shankaru Devi, aged 90, of Guhan village in Kangra district, was pleasantly surprised to hear a knock at her door and find the postman standing outside despite the curfew, with Rs 4,500 of her pension paid three months in advance.“The pension is my only financial support. I buy medicines and food with the money,” Devi said, referring to the state government’s special relief to 5.69 lakh social security beneficiaries following the Covid-19 lockdown.Advance payment of Rs 217.86 crore, six months in advance for beneficiaries in tribal areas and three months for other zones, has already been released in Himachal Pradesh.Those benefiting from the government drive to disburse advance payments include 3.85 lakh senior citizens granted Rs 154.24 crore; 1.20 lakh widows getting Rs. 40.21 crore and 63,495 persons with disabilities (PwDs) paid Rs 23 crore.A state government spokesperson said distributing funds to beneficiaries, especially in remote areas, had been a challenge because of the lockdown. However, the social justice and empowerment department and Indian postal service department had coordinated well to do the job. “It was indeed a daunting task carried out efficiently by the postal department personnel,” he said.At present, there are 4.75 lakh savings accounts in post offices of social security beneficiaries and 93,768 beneficiaries have bank accounts in the state.About 14,379 social security pensioners have been paid Rs 10.39 crore in advance in the tribal areas of Pangi, Bharmour, Lahaul-Spiti and Kinnaur districts for the next six months.About 4,3026 new pension cases have been approved.Social security pension of widows and PwDs was also increased from Rs 850 per month to Rs1,000 from April 1, 2020.In addition, about 1,11,863 national social security beneficiaries of the state have been given Rs 500 per head under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana by the Central government, for which Rs 5.59 crore was sanctioned to the state. An additional sum of Rs. 500 per head will be released soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/social-security-pensions-distributed-three-to-six-months-in-advance-in-hp/story-2tRBbJ2Eu9GLSt74Uk1lZL.html
14-05-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana Roadways drives out of lockdown, puts operations in first gear from Friday||Fifty-one days after the lockdown, Haryana Roadways buses will restart operations on 29 routes of 10 depots on Friday morning when its fleet of state-run buses will begin plying across select cities.The roadways has kept the size and scale of exiting the lockdown modest. Haryana has 23 depots of the roadways; a fleet of 4,104 buses and 105 bus stands. The roadways staff strength is over 16,000. Under normal circumstances, the roadways buses transport 11 lakh passengers per day, covering 12 lakh km daily.But on Friday, only 29 buses of 10 depots will hit the roads connecting towns such as Ambala Cantt, Karnal, Bhiwani, Jind, Kaithal, Shahbad, Pipli, Panchkula, Charkhi Dadri, Rohtak, Narnaul, Rewari, Hisar, Sirsa, and Fatehabad.STEERING CLEAR OF CORONA-HIT AREASThe buses will not go to Covid-19 affected regions within the states.At least eight buses will come to Panchkula from different regions of the state. Panchkula depot will start the largest service with nine buses that will go up to Rohtak, Bhiwani, Narnaul, Rewari, Hisar and Sirsa, while from Ambala depot buses will ply on six routes.“Dheere-dheere kal se buson ko Haryana ke ander hi chalana shuru karenge (We will begin with running a few number of buses within the state),” Mool Chand Sharma, the state transport minister, who represents Ballabhgarh segment of Faridabad, said.“Meri ek hi vinati hai ki maryada rakhen, bheed naa lagaye aur social distancing kaa vishesh dhayan rakhen (Maintain decorum, avoid assembling in large numbers at one place and maintain social distancing. That’s my request to the people.”According to the transport minister, the state carriage service has incurred massive losses. “Ghata hi ghata hai...kamai toh ek rupaya bhi nahi hai,” said Sharma, who also holds the portfolio of mines and geology.NO STOPPAGE EN ROUTEDirector, state transport, Virender Kumar Dahiya sent a detailed letter to the general managers (GMs) of Ambala, Bhiwani, Hisar, Kaithal, Karnal, Narnaul, Panchkula, Rewari, Rohtak and Sirsa depots, listing the steps to be taken and the dos and don’ts to be followed.While the buses will ply from the state transport bus stands to the scheduled bus stands, passengers will not be allowed to board or disembark the bus on the way.In case the bus is passing through Covid-19 affected districts it will go through a bypass or flyovers. A maximum of 30 passengers will be allowed in the buses. Passengers without masks will not be allowed to board the bus.According to Dahiya, initially, the buses will run on limited routes and within the state.“However,” he said, “the number of buses will be increased or decreased as per the availability of the passengers on particular routes.”ONLINE BOOKING OF TICKETSThe passengers will have to book tickets online and only those with confirmed booking will be allowed to enter the bus stand.Thermal screening of passengers will be done near the bus stand.All GMs will have to ensure thermal scanning of the passengers. “The thermal scanners will be provided by the state headquarters,” Dahiya said.“The seat to be kept vacant in the bus will have X mark with paint.”ROUTE MAPBuses will ply on the following inter-city routes from May 15:Ambala Cantt-KarnalAmbala Cantt-PanchkulaBhiwani-PanchkulaHisar-PanchkulaKaithal-Ambala CanttKarnal-Ambala CanttNarnaul-PanchkulaNarnaul-RewariPanchkula-KarnalPanchkula-RohtakPanchkula-NarnaulRewari-PanchkulaRewari-NarnaulRohtak- Ambala CanttRohtak-PanchkulaSirsa-Panchkula||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-roadways-drives-out-of-lockdown-puts-operations-in-first-gear-from-friday/story-weNKVeS22q6EkIFV2pFADI.html
14-05-2020||City||40-year-old labourer held for raping teen daughter in Ludhiana||A 40-year-old labourer of Chhawni Mohalla was arrested by Division number 4 police for raping his 14-year-old daughter for the past eight months.On Wednesday, the father beat up the victim and her brother for playing outside the house. When her uncle came to console her, she narrated the ordeal to him following which he took her to the police station to lodge a first incident report (FIR).The victim told the police that she had lost her mother in 2018. On September 17, 2019, when she was alone at home, her father raped her. The accused had been forcing her to keep mum by threatening kill her and her younger brother.The accused had been raping her for the past eight months, said the police.Sub-inspector Manju, who is investigating the case, said, “The accused was arrested under Sections 376 (rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 6 of the Protection of Children of Sexual Offences Act (POCSO).”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/40-year-old-labourer-held-for-raping-teen-daughter-in-ludhiana/story-dL5piWwKEznJJMFiew5eVL.html
14-05-2020||Kolkata||Kolkata’s pvt bus owners propose three times hike in fares to ensure social distance||Private bus operators in Kolkata have readied a proposal to raise the minimum fare to Rs 20, which is nearly three times the current Rs 7, as they look to restart services adhering to the social distancing norms.At a meeting of the Joint Council of Bus Syndicates, it was decided that fares will have to go up by Rs 5 for every consecutive stage in order to meet the cost of running the vehicles, its secretary Tapan Banerjee said on Thursday.The Transport Department will be informed of the decision, he said.Transport minister Suvendu Adhikary had on Wednesday held a meeting with private bus operators in the city and districts for restarting services in non-containment areas.The minister asked them to propose hikes in fares which will be viable for them in order to ply the vehicles with 20 passengers so that social distance can be maintained in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic.“It was decided that Rs 20 will be charged per passenger for the first 4 km, Rs 25 for 5 to 8 km, Rs 30 for 9 to 12 km, Rs 35 for 13 to 16 km, Rs 40 for 17 to 25 km and Re 1 for every kilometre after that,” he said.At present, the fares rise by Rs 1-2 every stage.He said these rates would be applicable to Kolkata Metropolitan Area (KMA).For the districts, the proposed fare is Rs 20 for the first 4 km and Rs 1.50 for every kilometre after that for ordinary buses, while for express buses the fares would be Rs 20 for the first 6 km and Rs 2 for every consecutive kilometre of the journey, Banerjee said.For air-conditioned buses, the fare proposed is Rs 50 for the first 6 km and Rs 2.50 for every kilometre after that, he said.Banerjee said that the minister conveyed to them that restarting bus services in non-containment areas of KMA is being actively considered.Private bus operators in the state had not shown much interest in running buses in the green zones with 20 passengers, claiming that it would lead to huge losses.Even doubling of fares for the private buses, which were allowed to ply in intra-district routes in green zones, failed to persuade the owners, who claimed that a 45-seater bus carries on an average 60 to 70 passengers with scope for standing and it would not be enough for meeting the costs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/kolkata-s-pvt-bus-owners-propose-three-times-hike-in-fares-to-ensure-social-distance/story-2fWh8LsgwkRkPnMZJFktgJ.html
14-05-2020||Pune||Pune gets 120 CAPF personnel to relieve burden on cops||With the number of Covid-19 cases rising steadily in Pune, the city is all set to get a column of 120 troops from the Central Armed Police Force (CAPF).CAPF personnel will help the Pune police. They will be deployed in containment zones and restricted areas to ensure that the lockdown is maintained. This is being done so that the fatigued and over-worked police force can get some rest.Mitesh Gatte, deputy commissioner of police, special branch said, “Constables who are 55-years-old and above, have been sent on leave as a precautionary measure. At least 100 policemen were quarantined a few days ago. The column of 120 CAPF personnel will assist the Pune police in bandobast duty.”State home minister Anil Deshmukh sought help from CAPF to boost the police strength in Maharashtra, as the police force was under severe pressure of daily duties and increasing number of policemen testing positive for the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-gets-120-capf-personnel-to-relieve-burden-on-cops/story-qNaM75Y1EG2jBEKfNbQpFO.html
14-05-2020||Chandigarh||Salute the spirit: Father turns author for Kargil War hero||Colonel Virender Nath Thapar (retd) is touching 80 but believes there is one story that needs to be told, and retold, because a nation requires heroes to sustain itself. And so he decided to author a tribute to his soldier son: Vijyant at Kargil: The Biography of a War Hero.The e-book, published by Penguin Random House India, has a nostalgic foreword by then army chief General VP Malik (retd) and will be available online from Friday evening.Captain Vijyant Thapar, a Vir Chakra awardee and fourth generation army officer, was commissioned on December 12, 1998, and joined the 2nd Rajputana Rifles in Gwalior. He was only 22 when he was martyred during the Kargil War in June 1999, having fought bravely in the crucial battles of Tololing and Knoll.Colonel Thapar has co-authored the book that comprises 18 chapters with Neha Dwivedi, a Kargil War martyr’s daughter who is now a Mumbai-based doctor.The book contains a brief overview of the operation by none other than Lt Gen Mohinder Puri (retd), who had commanded 8 Mountain Division that brought the Pakistanis to their knees.PATRIOT AND YOUTH ICONSpeaking about Vijyant and his story, Colonel Thapar says: “Coming generations have a right to such a rich legacy which they can lean on. Vijyant lived and died for the conviction that India is great, an ‘idea’ worth dying for. His life and thoughts must be preserved and passed on to the next generation. This book written by a soldier father on a soldier son, is but a pause for new heroes will emerge from the ashes of Vijyant.”Over the past two decades, Colonel Thapar has written for media publications and has been a motivational speaker at forums, particularly educational institutions, where he shares Capt Vijyant’s inspiring story. “We lost our elder son physically almost 21 years ago but he lives on with us in spirit. He remains a part of the family,” says the proud father, who stays in Noida along with wife Tripta.LOVE FOR THE FORCESThe book is full of anecdotes about Viyant’s early journey to the days in the Indian Military Academy and the experiences that shaped him into a fine officer. Vijyant was nicknamed Robin because of his love for nature.“I admire him now for his high thinking, love for the motherland and the armed forces. He dreamt of serving the country even as a young boy. He had drawn the cockpit controls on his cupboard and would fly high as a kid. His first love was the air force but he eventually joined the infantry like me,” says Colonel Thapar.“During his school days, he never carried the satchel, rather he took pride in the army pithu bag (backpack) with inspirational slogans written all over it,” he recalls.“I have written the story of a remarkable man without any prejudice. His is a story worth telling, and retelling,” he adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/salute-the-spirit-father-turns-author-for-kargil-war-hero/story-nQXv73oBk3xWqejZYoCrNP.html
14-05-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra eyes to extend lockdown in Covid-19 hotspots till May 31||The Maharashtra government on Thursday expressed its intent to extend till May 31 the lockdown in Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), Pune, Solapur, Aurangabad and Malegaon, which have emerged as COVID-19 hotspots in the state, a senior official said on Thursday.The possibility of extending the restrictions at these places was discussed during a meeting chaired by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday.“The government expressed its intent to extend the lockdown in MMR, Pune, Solapur, Aurangabad and Malegaon town in Nashik district till May 31. The state’s view will be conveyed to the Centre in writing,” the official said.“In the rest of the state, the guidelines of the Centre will be implemented when they are announced before the lockdown 3.0 ends on May 17,” he added.Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, Water Resources Minister Jayant Patil, Urban Development Minister Eknath Shinde, Industries Mnister Subhash Desai, Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat and PWD Minister Ashok Chavan attended the meeting chaired by the chief minister.The COVID-19 tally in Maharashtra till Wednesday night stood at 25,922 and the number of fatalities at 975, with Mumbai alone accounting for 15,747 cases and 596 deaths.The nationwide shutdown, which was first enforced on March 24, has been extended twice, on April 14 and May 4. The third phase will end on May 17.In a televised address to the nation on Tuesday, Prime Ministet Narendra Modi said there will be a fourth phase of the lockdown, which will be very different from the earlier three phases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-eyes-to-extend-lockdown-in-covid-19-hotspots-till-may-31/story-YihKKkTsLdeKWvuASjB4OK.html
14-05-2020||Mumbai||NGO seeks HC relief for inmates after Covid-19 spreads in Maharashtra prisons||Concerned by the spurt in Covid-19 cases in Arthur Road prison, an NGO, People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL) recently filed a public interest litigation in the Bombay high court (HC) seeking various reliefs for inmates in prisons across the state. The PIL filed through senior advocate Mihir Desai and advocates Isha Khandelwal and Kritika Agarwal was mentioned before the division bench headed by chief justice Dipankar Datta on Tuesday through video conference and has been posted for detailed hearing on May 19.According to the PIL, “Maharashtra prisons, detention centres, juvenile homes are some of the most overcrowded prisons/detention centres in the country. Covid-19 spreads quickly in closed spaces and given the existing overcrowding and resultant poor conditions in Indian prisons, there was an imminent fear of the spread of Covid-19 among the prisoners and the staff in Maharashtra Prison.”The PIL, while seeking directions to the state to improve health and hygiene facilities for inmates and staff, has also sought to allow phone calls and video conferencing for inmates so that they may speak with family members and lawyers who are in panic after it was reported that many inmates and staff of Arthur Road jail had tested positive for the coronavirus disease. The NGO has also sought a report on the number of inmates across the prisons who fall in the vulnerable category and provision of timely health care for non-infected inmates, among other reliefs.The PIL has sought three main prayers and directions. The first being, “The state should file a report on the number of doctors and health workers available in the prison and quarantine centres with information regarding the capacity and the present occupancy of all the prisons, numbers of inmates tested in each prison and their respective results.” It also sought conduction of weekly external inspection of prisons by health officers and provision of N95 masks and other protective gears to inmates and jail staff.The second direction seeks provision of facilities to prisoners to communicate with their family members and lawyers through phone calls or video conference to convey their health status and also sought provision of minimum monthly sustenance for inmates so that they may purchase food and other daily needs as money orders from their families were not reached due to the lockdown. The PIL states that ever since it was reported that a number of inmates and staff of Arthur Road jail and a few inmates of Satara jail had tested positive, there was widespread panic among family members and lawyers.The last prayer by PUCL seeks directions to the state to submit a report detailing measures taken for prevention and preparedness to control Covid-19 outbreak in prisons and other places of detention. The report should also include details on whether the protocols for the screening of staff and inmates and others entering and leaving the prison were followed and steps taken by the authorities to test existing prisoners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ngo-seeks-hc-relief-for-inmates-after-covid-19-spreads-in-maharashtra-prisons/story-4SPrHgaQ5iFbNoutI6UroL.html
14-05-2020||Chandigarh||Two women test positive in Kangra; state’s tally reaches 71||Two women tested positive for Covid-19 in Kangra district of Himachal Pradesh, taking the state’s tally to 71 on Thursday.The active cases in the state have gone up to 30.One of the patients, The 24-year-old, from Ghurkari village near Kangra, worked in a software company in Mumbai, Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said.She returned home on May 9 along with three others, including two of her family members, and one person from Nadaun of Hamirpur district in a taxi. She was under home quarantine.The woman reported Covid-19 like symptoms on May 12, after which her sample was sent for testing on Wednesday. The patient has become asymptomatic since and has been sent to a Covid-care centre.The village where she lives and the surrounding areas have been declared a containment zone and have been sealed off.The other patient, a 57-year-old woman, is a resident of Sheela Chowk locality of Dharamshala town, who had returned from Delhi two days ago with three other people. The day she arrived, the woman was admitted at Severe Acute Respiratory (SARI) ward at Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College (RPGMC), Tanda, told Prajapati.Earlier in the day two people, a mother and daughter from Paonta Sahib of Sirmaur district had tested positive for the virus.Himachal Pradesh has witnessed a spurt in coronavirus cases since May 4 with a total of 31 people testing positive for Covid-19.One person has died due to the contagion. Till date, the state has recorded a total of 70 cases, including two fatalities.So far, thirty-five people have recovered in the state.Kangra is the worst-hit district with a total of 18 cases, followed by Una with 17 cases and Chamba with 12 cases.Nine cases have been reported in Solan, six in Hamirpur, four in Sirmaur, three in Mandi, and two in Bilaspur.Since people stranded in other states were on their way to Kangra, the most populous district has reported a maximum of 13 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/24-year-old-woman-tests-positive-in-kangra-state-tally-touches-70/story-LIyZU6TpGLKRmhfncrlAzI.html
14-05-2020||Mumbai||HC extends deadline to pay liquor licence fees for hotels, bars and restaurants till June 1||In a reprieve for hotels, bars and restaurants serving foreign liquor, the Bombay high court on Tuesday extended the deadline for paying the annual fees for getting their FL-III licences renewed till June 1.FL-III is a licence needed to serve imported and Indian-made foreign liquor at hotels, bars and restaurants. The order came on a petition filed by Hotel and Restaurant Association Western India, challenging a notification issued under provisions of the Maharashtra Potable Liquor (Periodicity and Fees for Grant, Renewal or Continuance of a Licences) Rules, 1996, by which annual fees for this year for FL-III licences was enhanced by 15℅. In the backdrop of the nationwide lockdown, a circular was issued by the state excise department on March 26, allowing the licence holders to pay the enhanced fees in three instalments - 25% by June 30, 25% by September 30 and the remaining 50% by December 31.After members of the petitioner association sought rollback of the enhanced fees, another circular was issued on April 13, giving them an option of paying at pre-revised rates, on the condition that they shall pay the entire amount by April 30.It was then argued on behalf of the association that as the lockdown had been extended, members have not been able to do any business and therefore the condition to pay the entire licence fees by April 30 operated onerously against them. The court was urged to extend the deadline for paying the fees at the pre-revised rates.Additional government pleader Abbey Patki opposed the prayer. He submitted that the licence holders had been given an option to pay at pre-revised rates in one instalment or at revised rates in three instalments and they did not deserve any further extension.Justice NJ Jamadar, however, noted that in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, businesses have come to a standstill and the members of the association were no exception. “Since the government has graciously permitted the licence holders to pay the fees at pre-revised rates, on account of the exigency of the situation, an extension till June 1, 2020 would not cause any serious prejudice to the state,” said justice Jamadar. Although the judge refused to keep it open for the association to move the court and seek a further extension for payment if the lockdown was extended. Jamadar said it would be unreasonable to grant such liberty to the petitioner body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-extends-deadline-to-pay-liquor-licence-fees-for-hotels-bars-and-restaurants-till-june-1/story-H89yRymZ4jzjsYp47u6SyL.html
14-05-2020||Chandigarh||HP Women’s Commission starts counsellors’ helpline for women in distress||Following reports of increasing incidents of domestic violence across the country during the Covid-19 lockdown, the Himachal Pradesh State Commission for Women has nominated three counsellors to help women in the state. They will be available at the following numbers: 9805520079, 9805520097 and 9736011071.A state government spokesperson said that the commission had also launched a WhatsApp helpline number: 9459886600 for the public in general and for women in distress, with the objective of extending its outreach during the lockdown period. Now the commission can be contacted on the above mentioned number and complaints filed directly. Complaints can also be filed on the commission’s email id shimlahpscw@gmail.com.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hp-women-s-commission-starts-counsellors-helpline-for-women-in-distress/story-dVIfq0Rj3xWrc8EdfjwjFI.html
14-05-2020||Chandigarh||Order on opening govt schools after May 17, says education minister||A decision to open schools will be taken after May 17, the last day of the nationwide lockdown for the Covid-19 pandemic, state education minister Vijay Inder Singla said on Thursday.District administrations and schools, however, have not received any directions. “Government schools will remain closed till May 17 (after which) further course of action will be announced,” Singla said.As of now, parents and students are waiting for more clarity on opening of schools after summer vacation, which ended on May 11.The higher education department had, however, declared that colleges and universities would be closed up to June 15.“We are receiving queries from students and their parents, but we don’t know when the schools will open. We don’t have any directions or orders for clarity,” said Amarjeet Singh, district education officer.Open for administrative workMeanwhile, offices of the district education department and private schools will remain open, but only for administrative work with 33% staff.“Private schools in the district will remain open from 9am to 1pm for non-teaching purpose and distribution of books. However, no teaching activities will be allowed,” said Kumar Amit deputy commissionerSimilarly, the district education officer has also received orders to open its offices with 33% staff for administrative purposes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/order-on-opening-govt-schools-after-may-17-says-education-minister/story-tD3lgvGWkXcSK6Y6LwlGCJ.html
14-05-2020||Pune||‘No work here’, Pune labourers take the highway to home||After lockdown restrictions were eased in some parts of the city, migrant labourers around the city have begun walking back home. In the past week, there has been a heavy displacement of labourers on the highways. On Tuesday, there were reports of a heavy rush on the Katraj to Dehu road bypass highway where hundreds of workers were spotted, around 3-4 private tourist buses were scheduled to take a group of labourers to Rajasthan.“We had applied to go back to our village in Rajasthan and got the required pass, but didn’t have a vehicle. So we, a group of 25 people booked a private bus to go back and accordingly are now going back in this sleeper coach bus. Though it is costly, we just want to go back to our village,” said Bhuralal Mishra one of the workers who was travelling back home with his family of four members. Another migrant worker from Bhopal, Vikas Pande was seen running on the highway. He said there is no work available in the city at the moment.“My contractor who gave us work in a factory has run away and we were living in a shelter house in Kondhwa area. Now me and 4 other workers have started walking towards Mumbai through the bypass highway and will reach our village by any means,” Pande said.Talking about the issue of stranded migrant workers in the district and arrangements of transport to send them back, Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram said all stranded migrant labourers who want to go back to their states from Pune district will be sent by proper travel arrangements.“We are working round the clock to help them out. Once we get permission from the respective state and if the number is large we make arrangements for a train to send the stranded people back. I request all not to walk riskily through highways and travel with proper permissions, transport mode and by taking all the precautionary measures,” Ram said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/no-work-here-pune-labourers-take-the-highway-to-home/story-FwqxWgg73pUKdpyyFcmwNI.html
14-05-2020||Chandigarh||Illegal liquor distillery busted in Patiala, Congress sarpanch, MLA’s aide booked||An illegal distillery-cum-liquor-bottling plant was busted in Ghanaur, Patiala, the home district of Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh. A Congress sarpanch and an MLA’s aide have been booked. A similar illegal distillery was busted in Khanna in April. Khanpur Khurd sarpanch Amrik Singh, who is also an aide of Congress MLA Madan Lal Jalalpur; and Dipesh Kumar of Rajpura, who is a confident of Congress MLA Hardial Singh Kamboj have been booked. Others named in the FIR are Harpreet Singh, Bacchi, and Amit Kumar, a resident of Uttar Pradesh.Amrik’s wife is a Zila Parishad member, affiliated with the Congress. Jalalpur admitted that he and MLA Kamboj and knew Dipesh but said they were unaware of his illegal dealings. The factory was raided after the matter came into the notice of top officials of the Punjab government.HAD NO KNOWLEDGE OF THE DISTILLARY: CONGRESS MLAJalalpur, a Congress MLA from Ghanaur, said, “It is true that Amrik was a trusterd aide but I have nothing to do with his illegal business. I was unaware that he was running an illegal distillery.”“I have always condemned liquor smuggling and had asked officials to look into two factories in Patiala several times,” said the MLA.1,000 CASES SOLD PER DAY The distillery, which was being run in a cold store, was operating at full capacity since the lockdown. The accused were bottling liquor in Royal Stag, Masti Malta, Lajawab Sofia and Raseela Santra bottles, which are sought after liquor brands in the region.The distillery was using ethyl alcohol (ENA), which is used to manufacture sanitisers. The accused were diluting the chemical to make liquor and were selling around 1,000 cases of liquor a day. ENA has around 70% liquor content, and becomes fit for consumption if it is diluted to 43%.Authorities found bottling machinery, empty bottles, around 35 drums of ENA, holograms, labels of different brands and boxes. One person was arrested on the spot.LIQUOR SOLD IN PUNJAB, HARYANAThe liquor was being sold in Punjab and Haryana. An excise official said the accused had made a significant profit. “As per a conservative estimate, the accused had earned Rs 100 crore, in the last five months. The setup suggests that had been operating for at least one year”, said an excise official, requesting anonymity.A FIR under Sections 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery), 471 (using as genuine a forged), 188 (disobeying public official’s order) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), sections of the Excise Act, and section 5 of the Disaster Management Act has been registered against accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/illegal-liquor-distillery-busted-in-patiala-congress-sarpanch-mla-s-aide-booked/story-1zFPLNk6o3a8AcJ9Z6CdwL.html
14-05-2020||Pune||Students stranded in Pune go home via private buses||Calling it a failure of the state government to make necessary travel arrangements for stranded students in the city, the Maharashtra Navnirman Vidyarthi Sena (MNVS) organised private tourist buses to transport students back to their hometowns in Maharashtra.On Wednesday morning at least 54 students boarded buses to Satara and Ahmednagar.Pooja Madane, one of the MPSC student from Phaltan who was residing at Karvenagar with her friends said, “It was becoming difficult for us to fulfill our daily needs due to the restrictions in place. Here the daily basic necessities like food and vegetables are not affordable.”“I come from a farmers family and our financial condition is not stable. So I decided to return back home to Phaltan,” said Madane.Another 24-year-old MPSC student Omkar Chaudhary from Satara, who was residing in Gokhalenagar, said, “It was becoming difficult for me and my friends to pay rent from past two months. Finally, when two days back we got permission I planned to return back home.”Kalpesh Yadav, city president, Maharashtra Navnirman Vidyarthi Sena, said, “Till now we have sent seven buses to Jalgaon, Satara, Nashik and Ahmednagar. Earlier we sent students by Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) buses, but yesterday (Tuesday) they told us they cannot provide us with more buses, so today we decided to send students by private tourist buses.”As of now, the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) has not yet started their services in the state due to the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/students-stranded-in-pune-go-home-via-private-buses/story-mf6c5M6mbPNXGE3dG4oFWP.html
14-05-2020||Bangalore||Special train reaches Bengaluru from Delhi, passengers to undergo 14-day quarantine||Around 1,000 passengers arrived here from Delhi on Thursday on board the first train to Karnataka since limited rail services resumed in the country amidst the lockdown, officials said.Soon after arrival at the Bengaluru City Railway station, the passengers were screened for COVID-19 on the station premises itself, the officials said.There were some complaints from the passengers, about services inside the train, alleged lack of prior information about quarantining them and the absence of a proper catalogue of hotels.Earlier, the train that left Delhi on Tuesday at 9.30 pm and scheduled to arrive at 6.40 am on Thursday was delayed by 40 minutes.According to a senior railway official, the Bengaluru civic agency along with the Karnataka Health Department had set up 10 health check-up counters to screen the passengers.The passengers were disembarked coach-wise as Railway Protection Force personnel kept a strict vigil on them.“It’s heartening that everyone is maintaining discipline and seated inside. No chaos,” the South Western Railway public relations officer said.Once they came out of the platform, they were directed to board the buses ready to take them to the hotels and other institutions, which have been converted into quarantine centres, the officials said.Around 15 buses of Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC), a subsidiary of the state government, were deployed at the railway station to take these passengers to the quarantine centres.Elaborate arrangements were made to receive the passengers.As many as 4,200 rooms were booked in 42 hotels around the Majestic Railway Station.“We have reserved 90 hotels in and around the railway station. These are for institutional quarantine. The passengers willing to stay in these hotels will have to bear the cost. Separate arrangements have been made for those who don’t wish to stay in hotels,” Deputy Commissioner of Bengaluru Urban district G N Shivamurthy said in a video message.He made it clear that everyone coming to the city will have to compulsorily remain quarantined for 14 days and undergo COVID-19 tests.General public was not allowed to enter the railway station area.The arriving passengers had some complaints, including on quarantining.One of them complained she was not informed about quarantining them.“I came here to see my daughter who is unwell. After reaching here, I am told I will have to spend time in quarantine. The Railways should have informed that we will be quarantined,” she said.The woman alleged there were no proper arrangements in the train and that there was no availability of drinking water. The wash and the entire bogie was untidy, she said.Another passenger said neither the Railways nor the state administration provided a proper catalogue of hotels, which have been turned into quarantine rooms.“When we are paying for the service, we should be provided with catalogue of hotels to select,” the passenger stated.PTI GMS SA SS PTI PTI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/special-train-reaches-bengaluru-from-delhi-passengers-to-undergo-14-day-quarantine/story-a7Tx4K69sty76JsGUESL5J.html
14-05-2020||Delhi||Markets should open on Odd-Even basis; schools should remain closed, says Kejriwal citing public opinion||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said, the public suggested that market and market complexes should be opened on an odd-even basis while schools, barbershops, spas, salons, cinema halls, and swimming pools should remain closed. Kejriwal had sought suggestions on the relaxation of lockdown, about the tenure and gravity of the relaxation, on the sectors that should get the relaxation, and whether the public transport system should begin.Delhi government has received an overwhelming response from the public with over 5 lakh suggestions through messages, e-mails and calls on lockdown relaxations. “We had sought suggestions from people and we have received more than 5 lakh suggestions. Based on these suggestions, we will send a proposal to the Centre,” said CM Kejriwal.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“We have received a lot of suggestions from many market associations and most of them have said market and market complexes should be opened. They said they can be opened on an odd-even basis, half shops one day and the remaining half shops on the other day,” he said further.“Most have suggested that schools and educational institutes should stay closed till summer vacations,” he added.On the issue of allowing public transport to function, he said that the people have opined that taxis and auto-rickshaws should operate with the rule that one passenger should be allowed to sit in an auto-rickshaw and maximum two passengers to sit inside a cab and after every trip, the vehicles must be disinfected.“People have also suggested that buses be allowed to function with fewer passengers whilst maintaining social distancing. Some people have also said that metro services must resume partially and people have also suggested how metro services can resume partially,” he added.With regard to the opening of hotels and restaurants, Kejriwal said that many people said that hotels must remain closed while restaurants should remain open for take-out and home delivery only. “Most people also said that hotels should stay closed however restaurants should be opened for take-away and home delivery. People should not be allowed to eat in restaurants, however, there is almost a consensus that barbershops, spas, salons, cinema halls, and swimming pools should not open,” Kejriwal said. “Most people have also asked for stringent action to be taken against those who do not wear masks while venturing out. Wearing of masks must be made mandatory. People have also requested that visiting parks must be allowed for walks as it is good for the immunity,” he stated. Kejriwal is set to meet the State Disaster Management Authority and Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal at 4 pm today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/markets-should-open-on-odd-even-basis-schools-should-remain-closed-says-kejriwal-citing-public-opinion/story-Rby2hUYJwPBoOWAAfbCW2N.html
14-05-2020||Chandigarh||Liquor vends in Jalandhar closed, owners seek tax rebate||Even as authorities allowed liquor vends to open in the district with a few conditions, vends were closed only after a few hours on Thursday.The vends’ shutters were pulled down as vend owners were uncertain that they will be given tax relaxations. The vend owners contended that they had incurred huge losses during the lockdown. The government has formed a panel to assess liquor vendor’s losses during lockdown. The owners have sought relaxations such as reducing the licence fee and slashing VAT. They said the vends were unlikely to make profit given the slide in the economy and the possibility of restrictions being extended by few weeks.NO CLARITY, SAY VENDORS“There is no clarity whether and how the government will compensate us. We opened the vends but later closed them, considering the tepid response from people and confusion over government’s move,” said a vendor.An excise taxation officer, on request of anonymity, said most vendors closed their units in the morning. “Now, around 15% are operating but they too are receiving lukewarm response from public as they are selling only one bottle a person, that, too, at higher rates,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/liquor-vends-in-jalandhar-closed-seek-tax-rebate/story-xNXLWYgdy9CDuB8s9AKa9N.html
14-05-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai traffic police collect Rs 9 crore from Covid-19 lockdown violators||Mumbai traffic police collected Rs 9 crore by issuing challans to those violating lockdown norms in the city since the travel restrictions came into force in March, an official said.He also informed that nearly 18 people lost their lives in road accidents in Mumbai from March 23 to May 12.The police collected Rs 9 crore by issuing challans to those violating lockdown norms from March 20 to May 13, he said.Nearly 73,735 two-wheeler riders were penalised for not wearing helmet, 36,248 people were fined for disobeying public order, 11,611 for failing to produce valid licence and over 6,354 for driving without a licence, the official said, adding that 2,09,188 challans were generated.He said nearly 3,37,136 people have been penalised so far for various offences by the traffic police department amid the lockdown.The official also said that 18 people were killed in as many accidents between March 23 and May 12, while 38 people were seriously injured in 28 accidents during the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-traffic-police-collect-rs-9-crore-from-covid-19-lockdown-violators/story-vyyt35dkNvAk99rnkaQI1M.html
14-05-2020||Delhi||Different eco activities to be allowed in Delhi from Monday based on Centre’s decision: Arvind Kejriwal||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said different economic activities will be allowed in the city from Monday based on decisions taken by the Centre on lockdown relaxation. Addressing an online media briefing, he said that most people suggested that schools, colleges, spa, swimming pools and malls should not be opened post May 17, and there should be just limited operation of metro services. “We have to work hard to open up the economy,” he said, adding that people suggested strict action against those not wearing mask and violating social-distancing norms. The chief minister said that the government received good suggestions from people on lockdown relaxations post May 17. “We also got suggestions from market associations and most of them advocated opening of markets on odd-even basis,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/different-eco-activities-to-be-allowed-in-delhi-from-monday-based-on-centre-s-decision-arvind-kejriwal/story-hxLgbFwcquNAsc1dxIYoDL.html
14-05-2020||Delhi||472 Covid-19 cases in Delhi in 24 hours, tally rises to 8,470||Delhi recorded 472 cases of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, which pushed its tally to over 8,000 on Thursday.“472 Covid-19 positive cases have been reported in Delhi in the last 24 hours. Total number of positive cases in Delhi stands at 8,470, including 3,045 recovered and 115 deaths,” the government of Delhi said in a release on Thursday.It also said that 187 people recovered from the disease in the last 24 hours, but no death was reported in the said period.Giving break-up of the age group, the Delhi government release said that people less than 50 years of age are in majority - 5,921 people (out of 8,470) in this age group have Covid-19. Those above the age of 60 are numbered 1,247.However, the highest fatality rate is among those who are above the age of 60. While 4.73 per cent of these people succumb to the disease, the rate decreases to a minuscule 0.37 per cent in those below the age of 50.Delhi had registered the highest single-day increase of Covid-19 fatalities for the second consecutive day on Wednesday.Delhi reported 13 Covid-19 deaths on Tuesday. Even with the sudden spike in deaths, Delhi’s mortality rate continues to be just above one per cent, against the national average of 3.1 per cent.On Wednesday, Delhi recorded 359 new cases of Covid-19.Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Thursday that a meeting will be held at 4 pm today on the lifting of coronavirus lockdown. He said that the government has received over 5 lakh suggestions by the public.A meeting between Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and State Disaster Management Authority will be held today wherein the suggestions will be discussed and a proposal will be drafted for the Centre, the chief minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/472-covid-19-cases-in-delhi-in-24-hours-tally-stands-at-8-470/story-LGrN04fCuXPlduMKICrgNP.html
14-05-2020||Lucknow||UP CM asks private hospitals, nursing homes to start non-Covid services||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has asked the doctors of private hospitals and nursing homes in the state to provide non-Covid health services in coordination with the administrations of their respective districts, officials said on Thursday.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe chief minister directed the health department to give immediate permission to private hospitals and nursing homes that are following the coronavirus protocol to start operations and all medical activities. In a video conference with members of the Indian Medical Association on Wednesday night, he stressed that before starting the emergency and other services all medical institutions should provide training to their staff on how to safeguard themselves from the novel virus. There should also be availability of PPE kits, N95 masks, sanitizers and other such essential equipment in private hospitals, Adityanath said. He said all registered hospitals and nursing homes under the Ayushman Bharat policy should be provided PPE kits at subsidised rates and directed the Principal Secretary, Medical Health, to extend the registration of such hospitals for six months, officials said.Also read: Migrant influx pushes up Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan, govt fears spread in rural areas He directed that private hospitals need to necessarily check community spread and ensure proper screening of those reaching for emergency services and immediately inform the district administration in case of any Covid-19 positive case. Besides, he also instructed that private hospitals be sanitized twice in 24 hours and doctors and other staff be regularly tested.  “The Indian Medical Association is contributing in this fight against coronavirus. We would be able to win this fight better with the help of private doctors. It is necessary to provide better and qualitative medical services to people,” the chief minister said. “The people have acknowledged and respected the contribution of doctors, paramedics, nurses and other staff in this fight against coronavirus,” he said. There are 26 coronavirus testing labs functioning in the state and efforts are on to increase this number. The state government is trying to bring the best technology available to fight coronavirus, the chief minister added. Asking private hospitals, nursing homes and others to run emergency services as per the guidelines of the state government, Adityanath called for taking all precautions to check infection and maintain social distancing. The CM said private hospitals and nursing homes have a major role in providing medical facilities to the people and that they need to implement corona protocol and ensure that the patients suffering from other diseases do not have to suffer, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-cm-asks-private-hospitals-nursing-homes-to-start-non-covid-services/story-s6G3T1bvmDKIizDZ1S4PCJ.html
14-05-2020||Ranchi||With 4 Covid-19 positive cases in Giridih, Jharkhand tally goes up to 181||Four more persons tested positive for novel coronavirus in Giridih in the state on Wednesday taking the total number of Covid-19 cases in Jharkhand to 181, according to state health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe state on Wednesday had reported four new cases of the infection, two each from Ranchi and Koderma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/with-4-covid-19-positive-cases-in-giridih-jharkhand-tally-goes-up-to-181/story-M0TP1nWM9ojFgBjOM4ekNJ.html
14-05-2020||Lucknow||Set up land bank for new industries: Yogi||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has directed the state’s industrial development and revenue departments to set up a ‘land bank’ for making land available for new industries.Insisting that giving a push to industry was needed to restore economic activities in the state, the chief minister said appropriate amendments to sectoral policies should be made to simplify them.Presiding over a high level meeting to review the lockdown situation and arrival of migrants, he asked officials to formulate an action plan to provide jobs to migrant labourers.He reiterated that arrangements should be made to provide vehicles to migrant labourers found walking on road or rail tracks anywhere in Uttar Pradesh.He said respective state governments should be informed about residents of other states who wanted to go back to their homes. Yogi Adityanath said all those coming back to UP should be screened and quarantined.He also ordered arrangements for medical treatment of migrants who are not found in good health. He also said the capacity of quarantine centres should be increased in view of the arrival of a large number of migrant labourers.Social distancing should be followed while carrying out business at branches of banks, ‘mandis’ and shops, he said.He said there should be regular communication with members of monitoring and vigilance committees. He said all nursing homes should follow protocol while providing medical and health facilities.NOW, UP TO BRING MIGRANTS BACK FROM NORTH-EASTLucknow: After bringing back 3.26 lakh migrant workers by 268 special trains from the western, south and central regions of the country, Uttar Pradesh has now decided to transport those from the state who are stuck in the North-East.Additional chief secretary, Home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi on Wednesday said a train will ferry migrants from Tripura on Thursday. Later, migrant workers stuck in other North-Eastern states will be brought by train to UP, he said.Awasthi also said 188 more trains were being run to ferry migrant workers from Gujarat, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Punjab, Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan, Odisha and Goa. Till Wednesday morning, 43 trains brought 44,574 migrant workers to Gorakhpur, 33,894 migrants arrived in Lucknow on 29 trains and 14 trains brought 17,162 migrants to Prayagraj. Besides, 18,358 migrants were transported by 15 trains to Jaunpur, 7,183 by six trains to Bareilly, 11,362 by nine trains to Ballia, 10,730 migrants by nine trains to Pratapgarh, 8,533 by seven trains to Kanpur, 9,103 by seven trains to Rae Bareli, 11,002 by 10 trains to Varanasi and 4,833 by four trains to Agra.Migrants were arriving at 45 Railway stations across Uttar Pradesh, he said.The buses run by UPSRTC had ferried 72,000 migrants from neighbouring states as well as from the state’s border to various districts. A total four lakh migrants were ferried by train and bus to UP, he said.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has already directed the district magistrate to increase the capacity of quarantine facilities in the respective districts in view of the arrival of a large number of migrants.The DMs were also told to screen the migrants before sending them to institutional or home quarantine, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/set-up-land-bank-for-new-industries-yogi/story-aoW6lF2chI9aXBHFgkWizN.html
14-05-2020||Lucknow||UP: BJP deploys cadre to help migrants||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has decided to assist the government in providing relief to them. The BJP has identified about 150 such points across the state, which are mostly being taken by migrants to return to their villages.At these points, the party has deployed its cadre who has started distributing food, water, masks and sanitisers to the harassed migrants.“At many places the migrants were seen travelling barefoot and the party cadres under the direction of UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh and UP BJP general secretary (organisation) Sunil Bansal, are also providing them footwear,” said Manish Dixit of the BJP.Meanwhile, BJP MPs in UP have targeted Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and UPCC chief Ajay Kumar ‘Lallu’ on twitter over Priyanka’s missive to UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath suggesting ways to deal with migrant labourer issue.“Thanks for the advice but chief minister Yogi Adityanath is already active on all these issues. It is nice to know that those who robbed the poor are now giving advice,” tweeted BJP MP Satyadev Pachauri.“It would be still better if Priyanka also gave some advice to chief ministers of party -ruled states in Punjab, Chattisgarh and Maharashtra too where it shares power with Shiv Sena. The governments there are unable to tackle the issue of migrant labourers,” said BJP’s Kannauj MP Subrat Pathak.“CM Yogi Adityanath, a three-term MP doesn’t need advice from a leader whose sole claim to fame is her lineage,” said Farrukhabad MP Mukesh Rajput.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-bjp-deploys-cadre-to-help-migrants/story-ADUL140z5gztqgsG4dCZhK.html
14-05-2020||Lucknow||How UP plans to create jobs for economic recovery||The Uttar Pradesh government faces the challenge of giving jobs to the unemployed following the Covid-19 pandemic as more and more migrant labourers continue to arrive in Uttar Pradesh, which has over 33 lakh registered jobless people.Although UP has seen no upward trend in the number of registered unemployed during the lockdown, there are indications that more people will opt to register themselves when restrictions are eased and more migrant workers arrive in the state.“Our figures of the total unemployed persons has remained static at about 33.90 lakh registrations up to now. In fact, this figure has shown a bit of a decline from 33.93 lakh in February 2020 (before the lockdown) to 33.91 lakh during lockdown-3 (May), as the registrations lapse in three years, if not renewed,” said a senior officer.“Most people do not register while others opting to register online do so using cyber cafes that have remained closed (since the lockdown). The total number of registered unemployed persons may go up when restrictions ease in the coming weeks,” the officer said.The number of job seekers is bound to increase in the post-lockdown scenario as about 10 lakh migrant labourers have already arrived and an equal number are expected to reach the state by May-end.The state government is exploring all options to give a push to the economy and create more jobs for both skilled and unskilled workers. “Yes, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has asked for an action plan to create 20 lakh new jobs. We are working on the strategy and about 10 lakh jobs have been already identified. The exercise to identify more new jobs is underway,” chief secretary RK Tiwari said.As the fourth phase of the lockdown with changes in accordance with the Centre’s directives will begin on May 18, the chief minister has been holding discussions and viewing presentations with his ministers and senior officers to give a final shape to the state government’s future course of action.“We need to turn challenges into opportunities,” Yogi Adityanath said at a meeting convened to discuss measures to give a push to the industry sector.It was at one such high-level meeting that Yogi Adityanath asked senior officers to work out an action plan for creation of additional jobs.He said there were about 90 lakh Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) and if every unit employed one more person, about 90 lakh additional jobs will be created in the state.After implementing a coronavirus action plan and enforcing the lockdown to check the spread of the coronavirus, the state government has begun working on lockdown exit plans, a strategy to push economic activities and ways to provide gainful employment to the people.Loan melas are being organised across the state from May 12 to May 20. Rules have been relaxed and made transparent to set up new industrial units in the state. Construction activities have started on major projects, including expressways, and directives have been issued to allot mining leases to ensure availability of construction material, generate employment and revenue. Hardware shops outside hotspots have been allowed to open and more such activities, like allowing retail business, may be witnessed in the coming weeks. The state government also proposes to utilise the National Skill Development Mission, the National Rural Livelihoods Mission, the One District One Product (ODOP) scheme and the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Scheme and other such government schemes to provide jobs to the people. Already 119 sugar mills, 12000 brick kilns and 2500 cold storages have been functioning during the lockdown providing more than 28 lakh jobs. The state government has been pushing for opening of all the industrial units situated outside hotspots to ensure that all those employed there are not rendered jobless.The state government says the industrial units resuming operations have been able to give work to 2.12 lakh workers. Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) are reportedly giving work to 16.40 lakh people by now while 23.60 lakh were being given work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Scheme (MGNRES). It seems Uttar Pradesh will, however, have to traverse a long way to economic recovery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/how-up-plans-to-create-jobs-for-economic-recovery/story-2Y9vY2JMwbtgVFn9p7ACfK.html
14-05-2020||Lucknow||Migrants protest, take to streets in Moradabad||Hundreds of migrant workers flouted the lockdown and took to the streets with their belongings, in Moradabad, on Wednesday, demanding that they be sent home to Bihar. Seeing a large number of migrant workers coming out of the Galshaheed area — a hotspot — administration officials swung into action and rushed additional city magistrate Rajesh Kumar to the spot to pacify them.The Moradabad police stopped the workers and made them sit on the road maintaining a safe distance and assured them that their demands would be met.“We have no money or food. All we want is to go back home,” said Ishtiyaq, a migrant labourer.The migrant workers, mostly associated with the brass industry and hotels, said that they were rendered jobless after the lockdown was imposed and had been demanding the district administration to make arrangements to send them back home. The district administration officials told them that they were awaiting a nod from the Bihar government and would make travel arrangements for them once the permission was granted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/migrants-protest-take-to-streets-in-moradabad/story-8oHMifI9l6FCBT5gtrH7dP.html
14-05-2020||Bangalore||Lockdown 3.0: Special train from Delhi arrives in Bengaluru||A special train, carrying passengers from Delhi arrived at Bengaluru city railway station on Thursday morning.All the passengers were thermally screened after they de-boarded the train. Amid the coronavirus lockdown, the Ministry of Railways has decided to start issuing waiting list ticket from May 22 for journeys not only on its presently operational special trains but also for those to be notified in due course of time.As per the Railway Board order, there will be a cap on the waiting list ticket in these trains. The Railways has capped waiting list ticket limit up to 100 for AC 3 tier, 50 for AC 2 tier, 100 for Chair Cars, 20 each for First AC and Executive Class and 200 for sleeper class.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/lockdown-3-0-special-train-from-delhi-arrives-at-bengaluru-today/story-ESYVXrnPUQgn2hOPYAeuDP.html
14-05-2020||Lucknow||UP: Covid cases in rural areas a cause for concern||Reports of Covid-19 cases from the state’s rural hinterland has caused concern among state health department experts and officers.Principal secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said preliminary reports from districts indicated that fresh Covid cases were reported after the arrival of migrant workers from various states. The health department directed chief medical officers to conduct random tests to find out whether coronavirus was spreading in these areas, he said.A majority of the fresh cases are being reported from districts with a large rural population, including Sant Kabir Nagar, Basti, Banda, Gonda, Bahraich, Jalaun, Siddharth Nagar, Farrukhabad, Jhansi, Bijnor, Sambhal, Pratapgarh, Mainpuri and Hathras. Till mid-March, a majority of these districts were free from the coronavirus.A health department officer said the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) is conducting random tests to study the spread of the Sars-Cov-2 infection among people residing in the rural areas of the state.The respective districts’ administration have been directed to implement the Covid protocol strictly in view of the arrival of a large number of migrant workers.Officials have also been told to conduct thermal screening of the migrants and send the samples of those with symptoms for tests. The remaining migrants will be sent to 21 days’ home quarantine. If the sample tests positive, the infected migrant will be admitted in the isolation ward of a hospital. Even if the test is negative, the migrant will be admitted in a quarantine facility. After nine days, his sample will be sent for another test. If the second report is also negative, the migrant will be sent to home quarantine, he said.Meanwhile, the recovery rate of infected patients has boosted the health department’s morale. The tally of active Covid patients in the state was 1,744 whereas 1,902 patients had been discharged from hospital after recovery, the principal secretary said.Till the first week of April, the maximum Covid cases were from the urban hubs of Noida, Ghaziabad, Agra, Meerut, Kanpur and Lucknow. Cases were also reported from the manufacturing centres of Firozabad, Varanasi, Moradabad, Aligarh, Mathura, Hapur and Saharanpur.To check the spread of the disease, the health department identified hot spots in the urban areas, from where the maximum cases were reported. Soon, containment measures were put in place in the districts and towns. The strategy paid dividends as the health department managed to check a spike in cases in most places, expect Agra, Meerut and Kanpur.After the start of the third phase of the lockdown on May 4, the state government permitted the start of economic activity in districts categorised as orange or green.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/covid-cases-in-rural-areas-a-cause-for-concern/story-igkWY2Y881wIV6AsmVZdIO.html
14-05-2020||Bangalore||Bengaluru: Returnees to be quarantined at hotels, institutional facilities||Several buses on Thursday were seen parked outside Bengaluru city railway station to transport passengers to hotels or institutional quarantine facilities.Earlier today, a special train, carrying passengers from Delhi arrived at Bengaluru city railway station.All passengers were thermally screened after they deboarded the train. The Indian Railways had partially resumed its passenger train operations from Tuesday after over one and a half months of halt owing to the Covid-19 lockdown in the country.Initially, the Railways is running 15 pairs of trains and booking for these trains started on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/bengaluru-returnees-to-be-quarantined-at-hotels-institutional-facilities/story-SdePXBCnDrJHWvM2dvsivN.html
14-05-2020||Lucknow||Allahabad HC allows laptop to jailed law student for exam||The Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court has permitted a law student detained in a murder case, to use laptop in jail for quiz examination. He had approached the court for the same facility in view of completing his law course. Due to Covid-19 outbreak, the university has decided to take online quiz examinations for internal assessment. Hearing the plea in chamber, moved by student Tarun Singh through his mother, justice Dinesh Kumar Singh on Friday provided that someone from the petitioner’s side would hand over a laptop with charger to the office of the senior superintendent of district jail, Lucknow and the latter would ensure the internet facility to the petitioner only for appearing in the online quiz examination scheduled to be held from May 8. After the online quiz examination was over, the laptop would be taken from the petitioner and be kept in the office of the senior superintendent and he would be given the same again for appearing in the second and third online quiz examinations, the court ordered. The university would re-schedule Friday’s quiz examination for the petitioner and it would inform the petitioner accordingly, it ordered. The court directed the senior superintendent to ensure that the petitioner did not misuse the facility and used the laptop for quiz examinations from May 9 to16 and for rescheduled quiz examination of May 8. It further directed state counsel Ran Vijay Singh to communicate this order to the senior superintendent of district jail, Lucknow. MANOJ KUMAR SINGH||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/allahabad-hc-allows-laptop-to-jailed-law-student-for-exam/story-iMyyOZUnXXcYYYE16o1ePI.html
14-05-2020||Patna||I fear for Nitish govt losing trust of migrant workers: Chirag Paswan||Lok Janshakti Party chief Chirag Paswan on Wednesday said there is perceptible anger among migrant workers from Bihar who are stuck in far-off places and the Nitish Kumar government must bring them back at the earliest, lest it may lose their trust.Paswan accused the Bihar government of dragging its feet on the issue of migrants while states like the BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh have started bringing its people back by bus-loads.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageHe further said with the Centre running special trains, there was no scope for “excuses” in the name of adherence to the lockdown rules.“I speak as a responsible ally (of the ruling NDA in Bihar)...I can see a lot of anger among migrant workers when I watch their ordeal in videos posted on social media. I fear that they might lose confidence in our government,” Paswan told a news channel. The LJP chief, who took over the reins of the party from his father and Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan less than a year ago, had a couple of days ago alleged that the state government’s response to the migrant crisis was “delayed” and “inadequate” and cryptically remarked that his party “supported” the ruling dispensation in Bihar but was “not its part”.After the election to Lok Sabha of Pashupati Kumar Paras, who was the state minister for fisheries, the LJP has been left without any representation in the state government.The LJP chief’s regular attacks are causing embarrassment for the NDA government in the state, which is scheduled to see elections by the end of this year.Paswan had earlier in the day shot off a fresh letter to Nitish Kumar drawing his attention towards the plight of migrants from Jamui parliamentary constituency who were spread across almost every state in the country.The LJP chief said he expected the state government to “ascertain the number of migrants still stuck elsewhere as early as possible” and thereafter get down to bringing them back by trains or other modes of transport.“No action was taken in Bihar, where the government kept pleading adherence to the lockdown, while the Uttar Pradesh government had begun the process of bringing migrants back by buses. Much time has been lost, there must not be any more dithering,” he added. Thanking Railway Minister Piyush Goyal for “promising that as many trains as needed will be run for Bihar”, Paswan pointed out “now it is the job of the state government to find out as quickly as possible how many of its natives were stuck in which places and place requisitions for bringing them back”.He reiterated that identification of the states migrants was getting hindered by “a tedious process of registration, which required people to get their details entered online, without realising that they were hardly computer literate”.Highlighting the plight of migrants in states like Gujarat and Maharashtra, the LJP chief said “they are living in miserable conditions as 10 people are cramped in a tiny room. Social distancing is simply not possible under such circumstances. The Bihar government must come to their rescue”.Paswan, who had rankled JD(U) leaders a couple of months ago when he repeatedly highlighted its failures during his party’s state-wide “Bihar First Bihari First” tour, which had to be curtailed because of the coronavirus outbreak, also said the state government must ensure that once the migrants were back “blame does not fall on them for worsening of the pandemic”.“In my letter to the chief minister, I have called for ‘saghan parikshan’ (intensive medical tests) of all migrants. Thermal screening, which is taking place, is not enough. The state government must ramp up its medical infrastructure to meet the challenge,” he added.The LJP chief also said Kumar had claimed that soon after becoming the chief minister 15 years ago, “he would be bringing the state’s economy back on track so that those forced to migrate in search of livelihood could return”.“The current crisis throws an opportunity for Nitish Kumar. There are lessons to draw from the adjoining Uttar Pradesh where Yogi Adityanath has been doing a fabulous job by not only taking the lead in bringing the migrants back but also rehabilitating them economically,” Paswan added.There was no immediate reaction from other NDA constituents on the charge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/i-fear-for-nitish-govt-losing-trust-of-migrant-workers-chirag-paswan/story-MMz5NF5uMsUpqPmdcUgjFL.html
14-05-2020||Lucknow||Can’t poor in the country avail of Vande Bharat Mission, says Akhilesh Yadav||Hours after six migrant workers were killed in an accident on Muzaffarnagar-Saharanpur highway, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav expressed grief on the deaths and asked why can’t the poor people of the country avail of the ‘Vande Bharat Mission’.“Deep grief over the painful death of migrant labourers in the Muzaffarnagar bus accident in Uttar Pradesh. Tribute! First train and now bus accident, why the lives of workers are so cheap. Can’t poor people of the country avail of the ‘Vande Bharat Mission’? It is not correct to fly so high that ground realities are ignored,” Yadav tweeted (translated from Hindi).Under Vande Bharat Mission, India began phased repatriation of its citizens stranded abroad from May 7 amid lockdown. Six migrant workers were walking along the Muzaffarnagar-Saharanpur highway when a speeding bus crushed them on late Wednesday night. Three more workers were injured in the accident.According to the police, the migrant workers who lost their lives belonged to Gopalganj, Bihar and were returning to their native place during the lockdown on foot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/can-t-poor-in-the-country-avail-of-vande-bharat-mission-says-akhilesh-yadav/story-C9WF11nEVGMT7JWdFP85nO.html
14-05-2020||Patna||Bihar reports 7th Covid-19 death; 20-day-old boy among 74 fresh cases||The death toll due to the novel coronavirus increased to seven in Bihar on Wednesday after a 56-year-old woman died of the disease, while 74 people, including a 20-day-old boy, tested Covid-19 positive, taking the state’s tally to 953, an official said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe woman and the infant, the youngest coronavirus patient in the state so far, are from Patna district, which has 99 confirmed cases of the infection, according to Principal Secretary for Health Sanjay Kumar. He said the woman, a resident of Alamganj locality in the city, breathed her last at a hospital following a cardiopulmonary arrest. “She was suffering from multiple ailments like cancer of the gall bladder, acute renal failure, obstructive jaundice, haemorrhoids with active bleeding and sepsis,” Kumar said.She tested Covid-19 positive on May 10, he said, adding that she had no travel and no contact history.The boy is a resident of Belchhi block in rural Patna, which is emerging as yet another hotspot. Besides the child, a 49-year-old Belchhi resident tested positive on the day. Barh block in the district also accounted for two cases while one person tested positive in Khusroopur.In Patna city, four people two of them personnel of the Bihar Military Police’s 14th Battalion tested positive. The remaining two were residents of Agamkuan and Raja Bazar localities, situated far apart.Among the BMP personnel was a 27-year-old woman. Altogether 21 personnel of the battalion stationed at the Khajpura locality, which constitutes roughly half of the cases in Patna district, have tested positive till date.The state home department has issued a notification announcing that it is closing down one of its offices situated inside the Patel Bhawan for sanitisation in view of one of its staff members coming in contact with a Covid-19 positive person. The Bhawan also houses the police headquarters.Other districts from where cases were reported on Wednesday included Nawada, Begusarai, Bhojpur, Munger, Bhagalpur, Siwan, Banka, Buxar, Supaul, Muzaffarpur, Rohtas, Khagaria, Gopalganj, Madhubani, Lakhisarai, East Champaran and Kaimur.All 38 districts in the state have reported Covid-19 cases and Munger tops the list with a tally of 122. Significant numbers of cases have also been reported from Rohtas (75), Nalanda (63) and Buxar (59).Patna district accounts for two deaths, followed by one death each in Munger, Vaishali, East Champaran, Sitamarhi and Rohtas. Barring a 70-year-old victim from Rohtas, all were under 60 years of age and had co-morbidities.The state reported its first two cases on March 22 and the three-digit-mark was breached four weeks later.Much of the recent spurt has been attributed to the return of migrants from other parts of the country by special trains running every day. Nearly 1.5 lakh people have come back to Bihar.The state health department has put the number of migrants testing positive for the novel coronavirus between May 4 and May 12 at 190.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-reports-7th-covid-19-death-20-day-old-boy-among-74-fresh-cases/story-C7dVBGIuBrvRpBw47w2tNL.html
14-05-2020||Chandigarh||Four more test positive in Ludhiana, count climbs to 145||Four new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) were reported here on Thursday. The patients are a 31-year-old man of Railway Colony, a 71-year-old man of Lalto Kalan village, a 50-year-old woman of Bhai Himmat Singh Nagar near Dugri and a 37-year-old resident of Ambedkar Nagar. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga confirmed the new cases. He said reports of three positive patients had been received from Government Medical College (GMC) of Patiala, and one from Dayanand Medical College and Hospital.None of the patients had returned from Nanded. The count of coronavirus-infected patients in the district has now reached 145. Two Covid-19 pilgrims, have again tested positive, said Dr Bagga. Earlier, on Wednesday, five factory workers were found Covid-19 positive. These include a 57-year-old employee of Dugri Phase-2, a 37-year-old employee Kailash Nagar Doraha, a 41-year-old employee of Sunil Park Jassian Road Habowal Kalan, a 42-year-old employee Gurpal Nagar Ward 71 and a 25-year-old employee of Kadon village in Payal subdivision. All patients were asymptomatic. All of them were sharing the admin block of the Hindustan Tyre factory at Focal Point with a 64-year-old manager, who was found positive on May 6, and was undergoing treatment at the Christian Medical College and Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/four-more-test-positive-in-ludhiana-count-climbs-to-145/story-xtVwHRgcuN2pBYDnw00zaL.html
14-05-2020||Chandigarh||Motorcycle-borne men gun down shop owner, injure father in Ludhiana||Two motorcycle-borne men shot dead a mobile phone shop owner, Girish Manocha, 29, and critically injured his father, Joginderpal Manocha, 60, at their house in Janta Colony on Rahon Road on Wednesday night.Joginderpal took a bullet to his neck and is undergoing treatment at the Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, where his condition is stated to be critical. As per information, Joginderpal’s cousin Rajinder was behind the attack. A monetary dispute is said to be the reason behind the crime. Police say the accused, who is now on the run, had allegedly hired contract killers and instructed them to kill Joginderpal and both his sons Girish Manocha and Munish Manocha.As per information, two masked men knocked on the door of the Manochas’ residence on late Wednesday night. As soon as Joginderpal opened the door, the accused opened fire on him.He took two bullets and fell down on the floor. Girish, who was standing behind his father, tried to run to his room but the assailants shot him on his back. He succumbed to the bullet wounds at the hospital. Girish had got married only six months ago.Munish, who was in his room at the time, luckily escaped unhurt.ASSAILANTS MADE WHATSAPP CALL TO ACCUSEDAssistant commissioner of police (ACP, North) Gurbinder Singh said that while fleeing, the assailants made a WhatsApp call to Rajinder. One of the assailants has been identified as Monu of Chhawni Mohalla. Police have booked the accused and the two assailants for murder. “A total of five bullets were fired, out of which four shells have been recovered. Both the assailants were possessing pistols,” he added.“As per information, Rajinder and Joginderpal had a monetary dispute. How much money was involved will be ascertained after the arrest of Rajinder,” said the ACP. Joginderpal had reportedly transferred the ownership of a house in Chhawni Mohalla in Rajinder’s name and also given him a Hyundai Creta car. After Joginderpal stopped paying instalments of the car, a dispute erupted between them.MAIN ACCUSED HAS CRIMINAL BACKGROUNDPolice say Rajinder already has a criminal background. In 2009, he had allegedly poured acid on a woman but a settlement was brokered in the case. The victim’s son had then started working at Joginderpal’s house and also started staying there.Rajinder had also attacked Munish with a sharp-edged weapon earlier and this case is still under trial in the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/motorcycle-borne-men-gun-down-shop-owner-injure-father-in-ludhiana/story-t5m6ipCp17rrgRMANXxaBI.html
14-05-2020||Patna||Patna HC seeks reply on petition alleging poor condition of quarantine centres in Bihar||The Patna High Court has sought a reply from the Bihar government on a petition alleging poor condition of quarantine centres in the state where migrant workers have been mandated to stay for three weeks upon their return from other parts of the country.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageA Division Bench headed by Chief Justice Sanjay Karol on Wednesday asked the state’s secretary for Disaster Management Department to file an affidavit in response to the petition filed by Rajiv Ranjan Pandey, a resident of Saran district.A preliminary objection was raised by Additional Solicitor General of India S D Sanjay who contended that the Centre “has already taken proper action and as such no interference is warranted”.Appearing on behalf of the state government, Additional Advocate General P N Shahi said he “shall have to ascertain the factual aspect and respond accordingly”.The petitioner had appended a couple of newspaper reports to buttress his point that there was “no check on the movement of persons housed at the quarantine centres” and that the quality of food served to the inmates was “not of the desired level”.The court directed the state government to file its reply by May 18, noting with concern that Bihar has the “highest population density” in the country and “any mismanagement” at the quarantine centres could lead to a substantial increase in the spread of Covid-19 in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/patna-hc-seeks-reply-on-petition-alleging-poor-condition-of-quarantine-centres-in-bihar/story-2LojGdZemKTeWS68IgSPvL.html
14-05-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana CM Khattar hits out at opposition, says crop procurement going smoothly||Haryana Chief Minister M L Khattar on Wednesday slammed the opposition parties on farmers’ issues, saying they were unnecessarily raising eyebrows when crop procurement was going on smoothly.Crop procurement was going on smoothly, he asserted at a news briefing in the evening held through video-conferencing.“They are unnecessarily raising eyebrows,” he said when asked about the opposition’s claims of mismanagement in wheat and mustard procurement.The chief minister said e-procurement had been done by linking the entire procurement process with ‘Meri Fasal, Mera Byora’ portal which has also brought absolute transparency in the process.He added that payments were being transferred to the farmers’ accounts in five-six days.The chief minister said during the lockdown period, the state government launched a new ‘Mera Paani, Mera Virasat’ scheme aimed to conserve water.He said the opposition’s criticism to this scheme was not justified as water was a meagre resource and its requirement for judicious use has to be factored for agricultural purpose, drinking water and industrial use.Notably, the Congress has said that under the scheme, farmers in several blocks will not be allowed to sow (water-guzzling) paddy and the state government cannot thrust upon them its choice to grow alternate crops like maize and cotton.However, Khattar said that water levels have depleted below 40 metres in many blocks, adding, “We must conserve water for future generations.” He said alternative crops, including maize and pulses, would be procured at the Minimum Support Price.Khattar said under the ‘Mukhya Mantri Parivar Samridhi Yojna’ (MMPSY), financial assistance is being given to 16 lakh poor families.On migrant labourers, he said the state government had made arrangements to send them back to their home states.“We have so far sent nearly 1.25 lakh migrants back to their native places,” he said, adding that as the state government has gradually restarted economic activities, many among the migrants who are still in the state have expressed willingness to stay.The chief minister said the state government was stopping those who were crossing into Haryana on foot or other means and they were being kept at relief camps, where all arrangements were being made to provide food and shelter to them.Further arrangements for sending these migrant labourers to their home states in a phased manner will be made, he added.Khattar said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has pitched for the use of products manufactured in the country and has also said the novel coronavirus outbreak has taught us the importance of local manufacturing, local market and local supply chain.“There was a time when there used to be a craze for foreign things, but today we will have to reverse it,” he said.On contributions received in the ‘Haryana Corona Relief Fund’, Khattar said so far out of total donations of 216.17 crore, Rs 41 crore has been used on medicines, Rs 17.88 crore for labourers working in unorganised sectors, Rs 10 crore has been kept in reserve for giving ex-gratia, while Rs 1.94 crore has been paid towards sending labourers in trains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-cm-khattar-hits-out-at-opposition-says-crop-procurement-going-smoothly/story-StEkWXUuDuqKnBhO9fSq8K.html
14-05-2020||Delhi||5 lakh suggestions received, policy soon on easing lockdown curbs, says Delhi minister||Delhi health minister Satyendra Jain said on Thursday that the state government has got around five lakh suggestions from the public on Covid-19 and they will be formulating a policy soon.“Chief Minister had sought suggestions from the public, we got around 5 lakh suggestions. A policy is being formulated and you will get to know about it in 2-3 days,” said Jain.Whatever is open, will remain open keeping in mind social distancing, he said on the government’s plan for the next phase of nationwide lockdown.Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had on Tuesday sought views from the people of Delhi on how to ease the curbs when the third phase of lockdown ends on May 17. He had stressed that opening up the city completely was not possible as this stage given the number of new Covid-19 cases every day.News agency PTI reported, quoting a government official, that 4,76,000 WhatsApp messages, 10,700 emails, 39,000 calls apart from 22,700 responses on Change.Org have been received from people. Most people favouring resumption of economic activities, PTI further reported.Kejriwal, who was addressing a press conference digitally on Tueaday, had said that his government is also engaging with experts and doctors to get a holistic view on services that could resume and those that would have to shut after May 17.“I want to know from the people of Delhi whether or not relaxations should be offered. Lockdown can’t be lifted altogether. To what extent should we offer relaxations? In which areas? Should buses or the Metro be allowed to operate? Should autos and cabs be allowed? Should schools, markets, industrial areas be opened? We need your ideas on what all should remain under lockdown and what should be reopened,” Kejriwal said.The appeal to citizens from the CM came a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked all chief ministers to submit lockdown exit plans for their respective states by May 15.During the Prime Minister’s video conference with all chief ministers on Monday, the Delhi CM had appealed to Modi to categorise only the containment zones, not all the 11 revenue districts of the city, as “red zones”.Delhi had 78 containment zones as on Tuesday where relaxations such as opening of standalone shops and industries, movement of people in private vehicles, entry of self-employed persons such as electricians and plumbers is not allowed. These activities are allowed in the rest of the city - which has been otherwise categorised as a red zone by the Centre.With 20 more deaths from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) reported on Wednesday, Delhi registered the highest single-day increase of Covid-19 fatalities for the second consecutive day. The death toll from the pandemic in the national capital stands at 106.Delhi reported 13 Covid-19 deaths on Tuesday.On Wednesday, Delhi recorded 359 new cases of Covid-19, taking the city’s tally to just two short of 8,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/5-lakh-suggestions-received-policy-soon-on-easing-lockdown-curbs-says-delhi-minister/story-fyWpNP4Wfw0lGaEfUv3nCM.html
14-05-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana govt asks DCs to issue e-passes for inter-state movement of employees engaged in essential services||Chandigarh: The Haryana government has directed deputy commissioners to promptly issue inter-state movement passes electronically to all those employees engaged in providing essential services.The e-passes will be issued on the request of the employer.The government has already allowed inter-state movement of medical professionals, including nurses and paramedics and sanitation workers, by issuing e-passes on priority during the lockdown.HARYANA’S STAND IN COURTStating that about 56% of the coronavirus cases in the national capital region (NCR) districts — Gurugram, Faridabad, Jhajjar and Sonepat — had Delhi connections, the Haryana government had on Tuesday told the Delhi high court that it will allow back and forth movement of medical professionals from Delhi only on production of movement passes.Hearing a public interest litigation, the court had on May 8 said that orders of the Sonepat district magistrate (DM) restraining the movement of doctors, nurses, court officials and trucks from Delhi to Sonepat constituted an infringement of the constitutional provisions. The ministry of home affairs (MHA) had on May 11 asked the states to ensure that inter-state movement of medical professionals, nurses, paramedics was facilitated. The directions came after the issue of restrictions being imposed by some states, including Haryana, was flagged during a meeting between the cabinet secretary and state governments on Sunday. “Ensuring unhindered movement of medical professionals is essential for meeting public health requirements and saving precious human lives,” Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla said in his communication to the state governments.Haryana’s additional advocate general Anil Grover had told the court on Tuesday that in furtherance of May 11 directions of the MHA, the state government has evolved a procedure of e-passes, which will be given to medical professionals without any hassle.E-PASSES CAN’T BE FORGEDIn response to a query on why e-passes were being sought by Haryana instead of identity cards issued by central or Delhi governments or hospitals, the AAG had told the court that while identity cards can be forged, e-passes issued by state government cannot be forged as they bear a bar code. He emphasised that e-passes were being issued within minutes of letters or phone calls being received from officials of the central government or hospitals. MATTER COMES UP FOR HEARING TODAYThe court, however, asked the Centre to convince the state government not to press for movement passes and resolve the issue. The matter comes up for hearing on Thursday (May 14).The movement restriction orders are not Delhi-centric, the AAG had told the court, adding that they applied to inter-district travel within Haryana as well as to and fro movement of commuters to Uttar Pradesh. Similar notifications restricting the movement (as the one issued on April 30 by the Sonepat DM) have been issued by the district magistrates of Faridabad, Gurugram and Jhajjar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-govt-asks-dcs-to-issue-e-passes-for-inter-state-movement-of-employees-engaged-in-essential-services/story-9r1vWzT8hu0AWTSOjaFAVO.html
14-05-2020||Jaipur||66 more Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan, state tally reaches 4,394||More than 65 Covid-19 cases have been reported from Rajasthan, taking the total number of coronavirus cases in the state to 4,394, according to the state Health Department on Thursday.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe tally is inclusive of 1,697 patients who are active coronavirus patients while 2,575 patients have recovered from the infection.With one new death due to Covid-19 reported, the death toll in the state stands at 122.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/66-more-covid-19-cases-in-rajasthan-state-tally-reaches-4-394/story-2t1RMkZ7dj1uMYKOd13uJI.html
14-05-2020||Chandigarh||Two more test positive in Sirmaur, Himachal’s tally reaches 69||A woman and her minor daughter tested positive for Covid-19 in Sirmaur district of Himachal Pradesh on Thursday, taking the state’s tally to 69. There are, now, 28 active cases in the district.The newly diagnosed patients, a 30-year-old woman and her seven-year-old daughter of Paonta Sahib, returned from Delhi on April 4, said Sirmaur deputy commissioner Raj Krishan Pruthi. They were asymptomatic and their sample was collected randomly. He said since they had come from a red zone, their samples were sent for testing to the Central Research Institute (CRI), Kasauli, which came out positive.The patients are being shifted to a Covid-19 treatment facility. Ward no 4, in Paonta Sahib, where they reside has been declared a containment zone.709 PEOPLE ARRIVED IN THE DISTRICT Pruthi said a total of 709 people have returned to Himachal from outside the state since April 26, out of which around 550 have tested positive for Covid-19. Samples of those remaining are also being sent for testing.Himachal Pradesh has witnessed a spurt of coronavirus cases since May 4 with 29 people testing positive for Covid-19. One person has died due to the contagion. So far, the state has recorded a total of 69 cases including two fatalities.Thirty-five people have recovered in the state. Una is the worst-hit district with 17 cases, followed by Kangra with 16 cases and Chamba with 12 cases.Nine cases have been reported from Solan, six in Hamirpur, four in Sirmaur, three in Mandi, and two in Bilaspur.Since the people stranded in other states have started returning, Kangra, the most populous district has reported 11 cases.The state government has paced up the testing for Covid-19 in its four facilities. Around 800-1,000 samples are being tested daily against the earlier capacity of 300-450.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-more-test-positive-in-sirmaur-himachal-s-tally-reaches-69/story-hfshdVZvBY3DEhSy14u0mK.html
14-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi hospital director replaced within days of data discrepancy in Covid-19 deaths||The Delhi government removed Dr JC Passey from the position of Medical Director of Lok Nayak hospital on Wednesday. Dr Suresh Kumar from the department of medicine in the hospital has been appointed as the new head of the hospital.The order comes less than a week after Lok Nayak hospital came into focus for reporting around 47 deaths till May 6, when the government had reported only five deaths from the hospital and just 66 across the city. The issue of discrepancy in the deaths reported by Delhi’s official health bulletin and hospital records were highlighted after that.The three-member death audit committee is now working on clearing the backlog.Just four designated Covid-19 hospitals from the city have reported around 173 deaths, but the city’s total toll on Delhi health bulletin on Wednesday was 106.“The Centre had earlier this month sought clarification about why he was appointed as a director above the age of 62. This has nothing to do with the Covid-19 deaths,” said an official from the Delhi government.On May 4, the central government had sought clarification from the Delhi government over the appointment of Dr Passey on an administrative post as he is above the age of 62. The health ministry in 2018 had mandated that doctors above the age of 62 not be given administrative position but instead work in clinical departments till retirement at the age of 65.Dr Passey was a special appointment of the Delhi government in March-end for the management of Covid-19 at Lok Nayak hospital, which is the biggest Covid-19 hospital in the city and caters to only people with the viral infection.With 20 more deaths from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) reported on Wednesday, Delhi registered the highest single-day increase of Covid-19 fatalities for the second consecutive day.Delhi reported 13 Covid-19 deaths on Tuesday. But even with the sudden spike in deaths, Delhi’s mortality rate continues to be just above one per cent, against the national average of 3.1 per cent.On Wednesday, Delhi recorded 359 new cases of Covid-19, taking the city’s tally to just two short of 8,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-hospital-director-replaced-within-days-of-data-discrepancy-in-covid-19-deaths/story-dHRHoVGkif2rVulvNkR7FN.html
14-05-2020||Viral||This Gurudwara in Kolkata is feeding thousands amid crisis||Behala Gurudwara Prabandhak Committee in collaboration with the Indian Humanitarian Association is serving 4,500 persons each day since last 50 days of lockdown.Gurudwara Prabandhak Committee is preparing lunch and dinner in their temporary community kitchen where women are also actively participating in preparing pure vegetables food that could be distributed to the needy people.“After the city administration set up temporary shelters for the homeless and poor during the lock down. They reached out to me and asked if food could be provided and we started working in to it,” Behala Gurudwara Prabandhak Committee’s General Secretary Satnam Singh Ahluwalia told ANI.“Now not only in Kolkata but this effort of providing meals has reached to South 24 pargana, Satragachi and many other pocket areas. We are working with our group to make sure that thousands of people don’t go hungry and sleep without food,” he added.Gurudwara Committee and IHA has volunteered for each area. They work on the information provided to them and supply rations and meals accordingly to the people “At this hour of crisis people should come together to help each others and I am ready to serve more if needed,” said Ahluwalia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/it-s-viral/this-gurudwara-in-kolkata-is-feeding-thousands-amid-crisis/story-FPL3OY1kIs6sgMbtUFrBiN.html
14-05-2020||Delhi||Two Delhi court judges self isolate after recording statement of Covid-19 patient||Two judges of a Delhi court have gone into self quarantine at home for 14 days after one of them came in contact with a Covid-19 positive patient, a circular issued by Saket District Court has said.According to the circular, the Metropolitan Magistrate posted at Tis Hazari District Court came in contact with a Covid-19 patient on May 6, who was produced before him for recording his statement.Following this, his wife, who is also a judge, isolated herself for 14 days following the government guidelines.A letter issued by District Judge Girish Kathpalia directed all the judicial officers and staff at the Tis Hazari Court to not come to the courts unless they are deputed on emergency duty.The circular also said that those suffering from co- morbidities like diabetes, hypertension, etc. should immediately inform the district judge or the branch head so that they are not assigned duties. “Those judicial officers, administrative officers and staff officials who are suffering with any symptom of Covid-19, like ever, cough or breathing difficulty etc or any other medical complication shall immediately inform the District Judge or the respective Branch Incharges in writing, so that they be not deputed on emergency duty that requires their personal presence in the courts complex,” the circular said.Another court staffer posted at Saket District Courts complex had tested positive for Covid-19 on May 9, according to a circular issued on Sunday. The junior judicial assistant had last visited the office on May 4 for some official work. He came in contact with a stenographer at the court who has also been directed to self quarantine for 14 days. Prior to this a judge and his entire family had gone into quarantine in Mansarover Garden.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/two-delhi-court-judges-self-isolate-after-recording-statement-of-covid-19-patient/story-Fnzk6mby45IPe3mpDcelbL.html
14-05-2020||Lucknow||Autopsy of corona positive man: Post mortem house closed for a day||The post mortem house will be closed for a day because the coronavirus test report of a deceased labourer whose post mortem examination was conducted on Tuesday came positive on Wednesday.As soon as the report arrived the health and administrative officials were on their toes as his post mortem examination was conducted even before the report came. The officials said that the labourer Vinod Kumar Upadhyaya , 42, was found dead on in a train from Maharashtra and the GRP officials got the body to the post mortem house in the night. He was a native of Ayodhya. Two doctors were called from Civil Hospital for the post mortem examination.“The post mortem examination was conducted on the directive of the chief medical officer of Lucknow and the report was positive for coronavirus today. In such a situation all doctors have been asked to stay in quarantine and the post mortem house will be closed for a day for sanitization,” said Dr Sudhir Singh, spokesperson KGMU, where the post mortem house is located.All staff in the post mortem house will also be tested for coronavirus. The GRP staff who brought the body are already in quarantine as they follow a protocol in such cases.Chief medical officer Dr Narendra Agrawal said, “The post mortem was conducted considering the man as coronavirus positive. All staff was in PPE kits and protective gear and there was no need to close the post mortem house.”A medical team in Civil Hospital has also been sent into quarantine as a 20-year-old girl tested positive here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/autopsy-of-corona-man-post-mortem-house-closed-for-a-day/story-IbmhkNdHvyBh50ne542ouK.html
14-05-2020||Kolkata||Mamata unhappy with central package as money will directly reach beneficiaries: BJP||West Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh on Wednesday claimed that state Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is criticising the economic package of Centre as money will directly reach the beneficiaries.Banerjee herself had sought a special package of Rs 10 lakh crore for states to fight Covid-19 and the Centre came up with a Rs 20 lakh crore package, but she still is unhappy, Ghosh said.“The true beneficiaries of the package - common people - will get the amount directly online without any intermediaries. This perhaps makes her angry as her government is not getting it,” he said.In her first reaction to the 15 measures of the economic package announced by Centre on Wednesday, Banerjee termed it as a “big zero” and said it provided nothing as far as public spending, money transfer to states, MSME and unorganized sector are concerned.The Centre is transferring money of several central projects directly to the beneficiaries as, Ghosh alleged, the Trinamool Congress government had never provided any account for expenses made from central funds.“The Centre will now be channelising money from the PM to DM for different projects so that it reaches the intended people. If possible, it will be done in case of midday meal scheme also in future to stop misuse of funds and prevent her party men from getting cut money,” the BJP MP said.He said the central package will help 45 lakh beneficiaries with seed money to start projects.He alleged that the Mamata Banerjee government is not bearing 15 per cent of train fare of the migrant labourers returning to the state causing economic hardship on them.“You (CM) are forcing the poor labourers to pay train fare from their pockets. Is that fair? You arranged two trains to bring back pilgrims of a particular community and only eight trains to bring around 12,000 of the 3 lakh stranded migrant labourers,” Ghosh said.Asked about her allegations that BJP was spreading “communal virus” in districts even during a crisis like Covid-19, he said, “Mamata Banerjee herself is fanning communalism. Her party men are inciting violence in different areas, to divert attention from her failure to contain Covid- 19, and collapse of the PDS and healthcare systems.” The TMC’s nine-year rule is dotted with incidents of communal and political violence engineered by her party men for political gains, Ghosh alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/mamata-unhappy-with-central-package-as-money-will-directly-reach-beneficiaries-bjp/story-Sh8FvpJ7JZQBgNM2Xp9dVK.html
14-05-2020||City||Covid lockdown: Creative professionals in Ludhiana down, but not out||The lockdown due to the spread of Covid-19 pandemic has changed the ground reality entirely for creative professionals in Ludhiana, with many of them finding that talent has no takers in the prevailing situation.However, they have not lost hope and are waiting for the situation to normalise.“I always believed that having a regular job provides one financial security, but this lockdown has taught me this is truly not the case. Now, I have been working on creating more YouTube content to eventually turn the platform into my regular source of income,” said 23-year-old Harmanpreet Kaur, who, like many other artistes, is also waiting for post lockdown days.Harmanpreet, who has acted in various short movies, said the company, she had been working for, had not paid her for the past two months, and had asked her to work without any incentive.“Even after several requests, the company didn’t release my salary and asked me to work without pay during lockdown, which I turned down. I also approached my contacts for some acting assignments, but there is no work at all. Now, I’m spending most of my time creating content for YouTube and Instagram. My goal is to gain more followers, so that I can get my channel monetised soon,” said Harmanpreet, who is now creating beauty videos for online audiences.Like Harmanpreet, several other independent artistes have been forced to be dependent on their families.Thirty two-year-old Puneet Dharni, a Dugri-based photographer, said there was no demand for photography at present.“People just need essential items. Photography and paintings are of no value. Even the industries, which were our major clients, are struggling to somehow pay salaries to their employees. There is hardly any work for product photographers,” said Puneet.“But, I am paying salary to all my eight team members, including photographers, videographers and designers, from my personal savings,” he added.“They are my team members and I can’t ditch them at this time. I have somehow managed to pay them for March and April, but I have no idea how I will manage to pay them for May,” he added.Similarly, Rupa Arora, who runs a painting academy near Pakhowal Road, said she had been reaching out to architects for work, but in vain.“Conducting an exhibition of my paintings just after the lockdown will not be possible due to the social distancing rule. I have been contacting architects if they have any painting jobs for interiors,” said Arora.Arora, whose specialises in mixed media art, said she had been spending time creating abstract art for bringing positivity in her life during this difficult time.“Instead of artwork on the pandemic, I’m focusing on light art. Creating abstract art always makes me happy. These days, I’m practising a new form of mixed media with metal relief and coffee colours. I hope this pandemic ends soon and artists like me can share their works with the world,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-lockdown-creative-professionals-in-ludhiana-down-but-not-out/story-02qakZYo2WST34EHLfsMHN.html
14-05-2020||Chandigarh||Two held with 400 gram opium in Mohali||Police arrested two men with 400 gram opium on the Ambala Chandigarh road at Lelhi chowk in Lalru, on Wednesday. The accused have been identified as Manpreet Singh and Gurvinder Singh, both residents of Banur.They were arrested when their truck was stopped for checking by a police patrolling party. The accused were produced before a court and sent to one-day police custody. A case has been registered under NDPS Act at Lalru police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-held-with-400-gram-opium-in-mohali/story-O4XtBdeaV9kzZuj0LCHj4J.html
14-05-2020||City||₹20-lakh cr central package evokes mixed response from Punjab industry||The state’s industry has given a mixed response to the Rs 20-lakh crore economic package, the details of which were announced by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman at a press conference on Wednesday.Welcoming the change in definition of the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisations (FICO) chairman KK Seth and president Gurmeet Singh Kular said special relief was still missing. Under the new definition, units with an investment of less than Rs 1 crore will be under the micro category; previously, this ceiling was Rs 25 lakh.All Industries and Trade Forum (AITF) claimed that now the majority of the benefits will be availed by bigger players and micro units wouldn’t benefit. President of the Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU) Upkar Singh Ahuja and general secretary Pankaj Sharma said, “The announcement of Rs 3 lakh crore for providing collateral-free loans is mere eyewash. A similar scheme is already there and it has not worked.”CICU, however, welcomed the decision to invite tenders of up to Rs 200 crore domestically.AITF national president Badish Jindal said, “Change in the definition of MSMEs will destroy the future of the tiny sector. The labour benefits announced are only linked to the Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO), while only 10% of India’s workforce is under it.”Jindal added, “The main concern of the industry was salaries to workers, interest on bank loans, interest-free loans for starting businesses, lower taxation rates, exemption from direct taxes etc. Unfortunately, the government has again failed to deliver.”PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry (PHDCCI) state mentor and former chairman RS Sachdeva said there was no immediate relief for the industry. “We were expecting relief with regard to labour wages, and interest part of our term loans, which the government said will be postponed for three months. There is nothing of any benefit to industry right now,” he said, expressing dissatisfaction.In Jalandhar, Rajesh Kharbanda, MD, Nivia Sports, said, “Reduction is service tax was a long-term demand, which has been met. Some of the steps will improve liquidity and help restart operations.”(With inputs from Jalandhar and Chandigarh)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rs-20-lakh-cr-central-package-evokes-mixed-response-from-punjab-industry/story-U8hkyhDfHITM61VG09LThL.html
14-05-2020||Chandigarh||Hiccups on Day 1 as Panjab University reopens offices||As Panjab University reopened its offices after they were shut down amid the Covid-19 lockdown, various disruptions in functioning were reported, on Wednesday.All employees attending work were to be screened at the administrative block and Aruna Ranjit hall of the university.However, a university staffer said, “I arrived at 10.30am and entered the administrative block without getting being screened. Others entered without screening as well.”“Later, we were called out because fogging had to be carried out, following which we were screened at around 11am,” he said.PU opened its offices after getting the Chandigarh administration’s nod. But, no public dealing will be done and employees will attend on 33% rotation.However, as offices resumed functioning, more than the permissible number of employees allowed showed up, and there was confusion on how to follow the rotation.A security guard at the university said that many staffers were sent back because of this.President of Panjab University Staff (non-teaching) Association (PUSA) Deepak Kashik said, “Some employees had to be sent back on the first day, but now, we have now made the rosters for rotation of employees. We have made every effort to maintain social distancing in offices.”As no public dealing is allowed, checking was conducted at gate number two to ensure no unauthorised person enters the offices.PU registrar Karamjeet Singh said, “We have made all arrangements to ensure smooth functioning of offices. I have told staffers and to come forward with any problem they face. We expect functioning to be smoother in the coming days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hiccups-on-day-1-as-panjab-university-reopens-offices/story-KcqvUqcdlI4XVDJgGSEg8J.html
14-05-2020||City||Two Ludhiana MC employees suspended for demanding money from migrant workers||Two Ludhiana municipal corporation employees were suspended on Wednesday for demanding money from migrant workers for letting them into a bus ferrying them to the railway station for boarding Shramik special trains.MC commissioner Kanwalpreet Kaur Brar took action against the duo after a video of the employees demanding money from migrants was widely circulated on the social media on Tuesday. The duo — Jaspal, a clerk deputed in property tax branch of Zone C, and Sukhpreet singh, peon at the office of first appellate authority — admitted that they had taken ₹200 each from some migrant labourers on Tuesday, said the MC chief, adding that therefore, they had been suspended. She also warned other MC employees of strict action if caught indulging in corrupt practices.The civic body is responsible for ferrying migrant workers from pick-up points to the railway station in buses. Earlier on Tuesday, around 250 migrant labourers staging a protest had blocked the Ludhiana-Delhi National Highway near Kakowal Road, accusing the police and MC employees of not making adequate arrangements for ferrying them to the railway station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-ludhiana-mc-employees-suspended-for-demanding-money-from-migrant-workers/story-ggyfvnMPGbapOPXDuxrPfI.html
14-05-2020||City||Fee payment: BJP leader raises slogans against pvt schools in Ludhiana||BJP leader Vineet Pal Singh Monga sat on a dharna outside the deputy commissioner’s office on Wednesday and raised slogans against private schools asking parents to submit the quarterly fee online.“In the wake of the coronavirus outbreak, parents are facing a tough time financially and several private schools are pressuring parents to pay the quarterly fee, annual charges and transportation fee. Despite the orders by the state education department not to charge any fee till the lockdown is lifted, several schools have asked parents to pay online fee,” he said.Monga said, “I have written to the chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and education minister Vijay Inder Singla to take action against the schools for defying the orders.”He also suggested the authorities to ask the private schools to charge monthly fee instead of quarterly fee and no capitation and transportation charges from the parents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fee-payment-bjp-leader-raises-slogans-against-pvt-schools-in-ludhiana/story-mfkttfe8SORuER9vw6B5NM.html
14-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh seeks Centre’s nod on home quarantine of foreign returnees||After several Chandigarh residents put forth the request, the UT administration is seeking permission from the Centre for home quarantining those who return from abroad.So far, the UT administration has been putting them up in private hotels as per Centre’s guidelines. But UT adviser Manoj Parida told HT that he has asked the Centre for permission to allow home quarantine of foreign returnees in Chandigarh, since people are well educated here and houses are large enough to follow self-isolation protocols.“If the Centre agrees, we will allow home quarantine with detail protocol,” he said.Parida also said the Centre frames policies based on conditions across the country. Some states have opened doors to foreign returnees of all economic stratas such as plumbers, electricians etc, but isolating them in their small homes may not be advisable, he said.“But since the situation is different in this city, we are optimistic about the Centre’s nod on this,” said Parida.Seeking the demand, advocate Jaspreet Singh from Sector 8, who is expecting her daughter from Canada soon, said, “We are more apprehensive about the safety of single girls and women quarantined in hotels. When we are ready to follow all protocols for home isolation of our kids, it is unfair to forcefully put them up in hotels.”Another parent from Sector 2, Sanjiv Bindra said that before lockdown, several foreign returnees were successfully quarantined in houses here. Similar care and self isolation is possible now too, he said.Meanwhile, the UT administration is also considering the relocation of discharged positive cases from containment zones to other safe places to prevent a relapse.Parida said there were chances of catching the infection after being discharged. “Till the time the city’s containment zones are not free from the infection, all discharged patients from these areas may be kept in dharamshalas or community centres as part of our overall strategy to contain the virus,” he said, adding that a final decision on this would soon be taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-seeks-centre-s-nod-on-home-quarantine-of-foreign-returnees/story-iiJqdcOxpGoJ6wkTdvi71H.html
14-05-2020||City||Pained by joblessness, migrants in Ludhiana protest to be sent back home||Stranded in Ludhiana amid uneployment, over 200 migrants from Bihar took out a protest march on Wednesday.Demanding that the administration send them back home as they had no money or food here, the protesters marched from railway station to the office of the deputy commissioner and then to the Durga Mata Temple near Jagraon Bridge.The workers said they had run out of money and had no support from their employers or administration for ration. “I registered on the Punjab helpline portal around 10 days ago to travel back home through Shramik Special trains, but have not received the date of boarding information yet,” said Mukesh Kumar, a native of Katihar in Bihar.Kumar said he had also applied for ration on the helpline number, but received nothing, adding that the administration should immediately make arrangements to send them to their home states.Another migrant, Shahnawaz, who hails from Bettiah, said he had made several rounds of the railway station and Guru Nanak stadium, but no one was guiding him about the special trains. “I received a confirmation message after applying for the trains a week ago, but have no information on when I can leave,” he said.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP-3) Gurpreet Kaur Purewal explained the procedure for the special trains to the protesters, who then left the spot.Earlier on Tuesday, migrants had blocked the Ludhiana-Delhi National Highway near Kakowal Road demanding to be sent back their states.Meanwhile, according to the administration, around seven lakh migrants from Ludhiana have registered on the Punjab helpline portal. So far, on an average, five trains are running daily carrying around 6,000 passengers.On Wednesday, five trains with around 6,000 passengers left the Ludhiana railway station for Hardoi, Fatehpur, Unnao, Gorakhpur and Gonda.Deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal said the frequency of trains will be increased, which will help cater to many more migrants. As many as seven trains will run on Thursday and eight trains on Friday, he added. “The nodal officers of the state are coordinating with governments of Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and other states, and they are being requested to increase the number of trains. We are also asking them to allow migrants to come by road, and accordingly we will also allow bus services,” Agrawal said. He appealed to the migrants not to believe in rumours, and patiently wait for information about their date of boarding. “The train and bus services are allowed only after getting approval from the respective districts where they want to travel. So, they should not travel without permission,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pained-by-joblessness-migrants-in-ludhiana-protest-to-be-sent-back-home/story-yvRnwt5sO5fwmZIjiFybuJ.html
14-05-2020||Chandigarh||After fear, uncertainty, homecoming sweet for foreign returnees in Chandigarh||As foreign returnees begin arriving home, they bring tales of despair and suffering with them, brought on by the Covid pandemic and the hardships posed due to consequent shutdown of cities across the world.For the 20-year-old from Attawa village in Sector 42, who arrived on Tuesday night with four other passengers, uncertainty has interrupted his dreams for his future, but he is glad to return home. He had to borrow money to pay for his flight from Singapore, where he was studying. Before reaching Chandigarh, he had to stay at a Delhi hotel for three nights, where a PGIMER doctor returning from Dhaka paid for his stay as he had no money even for a meal.Upon reaching here, he said he was kept for day at Hotel Mountview in Sector 10 on Wednesday which charged ₹5,000 per night. However, it was waived off after intervention by Shashank Anand, the deputy inspector general of police (DIG, traffic) and nodal officer, before he was shifted to a more modest accommodation at Panchayat Bhawan in Sector 36. “Amid the pandemic I see no future, but I am happy to come back to my mother and sister,” said the Attawa youth who lost his father some time ago. He had flown to Singapore in November last year for a six-month diploma course, but the pandemic changed everything.Among the five who returned to Chandigarh were three other students from Singapore, including a class eight student studying in a boarding school here, who arrived in the first batch of returnees. The Attawa youth said he had planned for an internship after studies and wished to stay there longer. “But due to corona, Singapore placed stringent restrictions, and that was that. To stay afloat I worked some odd jobs illegally but it wasn’t sufficient to pay even for accommodation,” he said.“Gurdwaras proved saviours with their free meal service and I was elated when the Indian government announced they would fetch those who wanted to come back. But the flight ticket was almost double the usual fare, so I had to borrow money from a friend in Mohali. I requested the government officials to subsidise air-tickets for those who can’t afford it as there are several students like me facing such hardships on foreign shores,” he addedThe PGIMER doctor who arrived in Chandigarh on Tuesday night was on a sabbatical in Dhaka for two years. After his visa expired in the first week of April, he tried every which way to come home. Although he was staying in safe place, he said the sense of uncertainty about when he would reach home brought on anxiety.“I was worried about my family. My kids were alone at home most of the time as my wife, who is also a medical professional had to go on duty,” he said. Relieved to be back, he says he will have to wait out the quarantine period before he goes home. Even though he feels fine, but he will readily undergo the test and follow all protocols, he added.Patience was a great virtue at such times, he said, adding the he appreciated efforts made by the government. “I could see government agencies working tirelessly to push a system in place for their handling the crisis,” he added.As per UT officials, all foreign returnees will undergo medical tests and stay in quarantine for 14 days before they can go home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/after-fear-uncertainty-homecoming-sweet-for-foreign-returnees-in-chandigarh/story-UleUKUu4aeu90PDWK1zV0I.html
14-05-2020||City||Migrants workers at APMC take up risky ride to reach home||After Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) market in Vashi shut on Monday till May 17, migrant workers from Bangladesh, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh have started going back to their hometown on their own, without waiting for special trains and busses. While Navi Mumbai police commissioner Sanjay Kumar requested them to avoid unsafe journey and wait for special trains, the migrants said that they want to return home at any cost as they were not certain about their livelihood.Sunder Lala, 35, a migrant from Bengal, said, “Earlier there used to be ample of work and we made good money. Since the first lockdown, things have changed and with a reduced number of trucks the work too has reduced.”“I want to go back to my home town now even if it is a risky ride,” said Lala, who stays at Sanpada along with four others from his hometown.The migrants are in rush to claim a seat in overcrowded trucks even if they have to pay between ₹3,000 and ₹5,000 each. They are seen travelling in a risky situation with no masks and overcrowded trucks, but nothing is stopping them to take up this risky ride.“The infection, as well as uncertainty, is increasing here with every passing day. I tried to register myself for Shramik special train, but it seems it will take longer and we cannot wait long. Hence we have decided to go back via truck, van auto whatever option we get,” said Bindesar Rai, 40, from Uttar Pradesh. Rai stays with his wife and 11-year-old daughter in Nerul.Navi Mumbai, police commissioner, Sanjay Kumar said, “Everyone will be sent back to their home safely. I again urge everyone who is talking risky ride to register themselves and opt for safe travel via trains and buses started by the government.”“Most of the state governments have given permission, so more trains and buses will be rolled out. Patience is key, those stranded should wait rather than risking their and their family lives,” said Kumar.Many have exhausted their savings for getting a ride back to home and don’t want to return back soon.“We came here for a better prospect but, there is a lot of uncertainty now. I will be leaving for my home town in Uttar Pradesh in a day,” said Swayambhu Vibhuti, 32, he stays with his friends and brother at Sanpada.Narendra Patil, Mathadi Kamgar leader, APMC said, “ We did assure everyone that work will start after May 17, once the market reopens. While few were convinced others are scared of the virus and reasoned that they want to go back and will come back once the situation improves.”More than 75 people connected with the market, including traders, wholesalers, mathadi workers and members of APMC, have tested positive for Covid-19 since the outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/migrants-workers-at-apmc-take-up-risky-ride-to-reach-home/story-Q3E8Zn7HTWjLqrpbsOzqQI.html
14-05-2020||City||Property tax: Ludhiana MC offices reopened to accept payments||With the last date to avail 10% rebate on payment of property tax approaching, the municipal corporation (MC) has decided to reopen its zonal suvidha kendras for collection of property tax and water-sewer charges from Thursday onwards. As part of a one-time settlement scheme, residents can avail of rebate on property tax due since 2013-14 up to May 31, while the last date for rebate on water-sewer charges was May 11. Suvidha kendras will remain open from 9am to 1:30pm on all weekdays. Visitors must wear mask or handkerchiefs and maintain social distancing while visiting these offices. Tax can also be paid online at http://mcludhiana.gov.in/.MC commissioner Kanwalpreet Kaur Brar said MC had stopped public dealing due to the Covid-19 outbreak from March 23 onwards. “For the benefit of city residents, special counters have been set up in all MC offices in its four zones. Residents should clear their pending property tax and water and sewerage dues before May 31,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/property-tax-ludhiana-mc-offices-reopened-to-accept-payments/story-AkADOCKz1cgsSUf37iwqFM.html
14-05-2020||Mumbai||Post department dedicates postal cover to migrants||India Post, Mumbai, paid a tribute to migrant workers on Wednesday by releasing a special postal cover dedicated to them.The official release of the postal cover took place at the Mumbai General Post Office (GPO) and the special covers were released by five workers from different sectors, said a GPO official.“This special cover is a tribute to those migrant workers whose grit, tenacity and labour have a big hand in building the city and making our lives smooth and seamless. Whether it is the taxi and auto drivers, the jewellery artisans of Zaveri Bazar, the construction building workers or the Bollywood technicians, most of whom hail from different areas of Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal and Odisha. It is their silent contribution that has made Mumbai the financial powerhouse to the world,” said Swati Pandey, postmaster general, India Post, Mumbai and head of Mumbai GPO.The chief postmaster general, Maharashtra and Goa, Harish Chandra Agrawal was also present at the release. “At this point in time, when the world is fighting against Covid-19, we are witnessing a very sad state of migrant workers who are struggling to get back home. They indeed are the most poignant victims of the circumstance. This special cover is an attempt to keep their struggles and contributions recorded in the history of India,” added Pandey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/post-department-dedicates-postal-cover-to-migrants/story-Qz0xPRsgwVn80s1tmNaLLI.html
14-05-2020||Chandigarh||HC allows termination of 22-week pregnancy of Chandigarh woman||The Punjab and Haryana high court (HC) on Wednesday allowed termination of 22-week pregnancy of a Chandigarh woman as the foetus was diagnosed with a severe congenital anomaly.The termination of pregnancy was allowed after a panel of doctors at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) opined for the same. The woman had on May 8 approached HC seeking permission for the termination of pregnancy. Following this, the matter was sent by HC for examination by a panel of PGIMER.The Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, 1971, does not permit termination of pregnancy beyond 20 weeks. The law allows termination of pregnancy by a registered medical practitioner, where the duration of the pregnancy does not exceed 12 weeks. If the duration is up to 20 weeks, the pregnancy can be terminated on doctors’ opinion that continuance of the pregnancy would involve a risk to the life of the pregnant woman or can cause grave injury to her physical or mental health. It can also be terminated, if there is a substantial risk to newborn. The PGIMER panel had found that foetus had a severe congenital anomaly with poor prognosis and was not compatible with normal life. The foetus was found affected with Arnold Chiari malformation [type II], a structural defect which leads to underdeveloped brain and a distorted spine.The medical board of PGIMER had also said that there was also possibility of live birth if abortion was performed since it was being performed after 22 weeks. Hence, in such cases injection of ultrasound guided potassium chloride into the fetal heart is advised prior to abortion, to prevent a live birth, the panel had suggested. “In view of the said medical report, this court has no choice but to accept the request of the petitioner, which is also recommended by the permanent medical board,” said a bench of justice Nirmaljit Kaur while allowing the termination of pregnancy with the directions that all necessary facilities for undertaking the procedure be afforded to the patient.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-allows-termination-of-22-week-pregnancy-of-chandigarh-woman/story-a0oaSFmQURsfvrBNykfRDK.html
14-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s GMCH-32 postpones summer break amid Covid-19 outbreak||In view of the Covid-19 outbreak in the country and rise in number of corona positive cases in the city, Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, has postponed its summer vacation. The decision has been taken under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, as a precautionary measure against the spread of the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-s-gmch-32-postpones-summer-break-amid-covid-19-outbreak/story-OqUXnCeC1vi4Bn7Kd6KtUO.html
14-05-2020||Mumbai||BMC issues new guidelines, no Covid test during discharge for those with mild symptoms||The newly appointed municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal issued new testing protocol on Wednesday wherein patients who have mild symptoms of Covid-19 do not require testing at the time of discharge, further adding that testing is mandatory only for discharging the patients who were critical. In case of asymptomatic patients, the laboratories have been directed to test only those identified by fever clinics or outpatient sections of private and government hospitals.Further, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has said that no emergency surgery can be denied to patients by the doctors for want of Covid-19 testing. The BMC chief has also allowed home testing only in emergency cases. BMC, in a circular, said that it is issuing revised guidelines of testing by superseding all earlier circulars in light of the government of India and the state government issuing their revised discharge policy as per the categorisation of patients.In a circular issued on Wednesday, BMC stated, “Testing of mild/very mild /pre-symptomatic cases shall not be required before the discharge if there are no symptoms seen on seventh, eighth and ninth days consecutively. In case of moderate symptomatic patients, testing shall not be required if the patient recovered clinically. Testing is required once before discharge in cases of critical patients and immune-compromised patients when they have no symptoms for three days.”In the context of not denying urgent surgeries, the BMC circular has stated, “Only if there is a strong suspicion of Covid-19 in persons requiring elective surgery or surgery which can wait for 48 hours, a doctor can ask for Covid-19 test. No emergency surgeries should be denied to the patient for want of Covid-19 test.”BMC has also asked laboratories to not inform the patients about test results without informing the civic body. The laboratories have been asked to report all positive cases immediately, within one hour of results so that contact-tracing may be initiated at the earliest. For patients on regular haemodialysis, BMC has said that the test should not be asked as a routine before every procedure (dialysis). Contrary to the earlier directions by BMC last week, standard operating procedure issued by Chahal stated that only symptomatic patients who are tested have to be institutionally quarantined. Further, tests for all symptomatic patients can be done only if they have been referred by a registered medical practitioner. The circular mentions that pregnant women, even if asymptomatic, should be tested. The circular read, “Asymptomatic pregnant women should be tested in the facilities where they are expected to deliver .” Dr Sanjay Pattiwar, a public health consultant, said, “The revised guidelines will be helpful as the resources for testing and the infrastructure required are limited. However, considering the density and the parameters of Mumbai, I feel the Central government can also think of having specially dedicated testing for Mumbai in order to flatten the curve.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-issues-new-guidelines-no-covid-test-during-discharge-for-those-with-mild-symptoms/story-eYBm8QYSeqNsunVz8Lo5EI.html
14-05-2020||City||Wife, paramour land in net for Ambala man’s murder||Three days after a man’s body was found near Dhorkada village of Ambala, police arrested his wife and her paramour for murder on Wednesday.The body of the victim, Ravi Kumar, a resident of Ambala, was found with throat slit on May 10, following which his wife, Dimple, had lodged a complaint and a murder case was registered the next day. CIA-1 in-charge Kewal Singh said, “We have arrested Dimple and one Sukhwinder Singh, a resident of Churuni Jantan of Kurukshetra district. It is learnt that both were having an affair after which they murdered Ravi.”Singh said the police had recovered a wire, a pillow, a mobile phone and a motorcycle as well. “The accused were produced before a court and remanded in three-day police custody,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/wife-paramour-land-in-net-for-ambala-man-s-murder/story-IvY1qEZcnqv7L2galuBTQK.html
14-05-2020||City||Man booked for stealing landlord’s ₹5 lakh, gold jewellery in Mohali||A man was booked for stealing ₹5 lakh, gold jewellery and a mobile phone from his landlord in Sadarpura Colony, Lalru, on Wednesday.The accused has been identified as Dharmedra Giri, a native of Pipra in Bihar.The complaint, Chanderkala, said the accused was staying on rent at her house for the last year.She said Giri committed the theft on April 20. Explaining the delay in lodging the complaint, she said the accused had assured he would return the stolen items, when they had spoken over the phone.But, when he failed to do so and switched off his phone, she lodged the complaint. Police have booked Giri for theft at Lalru police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-booked-for-stealing-landlord-s-5-lakh-gold-jewellery-in-mohali/story-WkRKiVZY9PWH0FWIcQpX2M.html
14-05-2020||Chandigarh||50% Covid-19 patients admitted to Chandigarh’s PGIMER in 13-39 age group||Individuals belonging to the young and productive age group of 13-39 years account for half of the cumulative 138 coronavirus cases which are undergoing treatment at or have been discharged from the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER). Following these are those in age group of 40-59 years who account for 28.2% of the cumulative cases. “More number of young patients can be linked to their greater mobility, or moving out of their houses, than other age groups. The young population also mixes up with their peers more than family too. However, it is also observed that most of them are asymptomatic,” said Dr GD Puri, dean (academics), PGIMER.However, scientifically it needs more investigation to say something concrete about it, he stressed. Also, among the affected, 54% are females, but there is no concrete proof to suggest that females are more vulnerable. “Most of the productive individuals belong to the young age group, who move outdoors for professional and family commitments,” said Dr Jagat Ram, director, PGIMER.Dr Sonu Goel, public health expert at PGIMER, said, “The productive age group is the most affected because they travel for work-related things and are more exposed to the virus, which is a national trend.”Compared to other countries, India has a far greater population of those in the age group of 15-60 years. As per 2011 Census data, 29.5% of Indians belong to the 0-15 age group, 62.5% to the 15-59 age group and 8% are aged 60 years and above.HOWEVER, FATALITY RATE HIGH AMONG OLDAs per the information, the fatality rate of cases at PGIMER so far, which stands at 6.5%, has been observed more in the older age group (more than 60 years old).“People in the old age groups should be more protected because chances of fatality are more in them,” Dr Goel said.Experts say quarantining or isolating the contagiously ill people is being done to contain the spread, but the government should think about implementing reverse quarantine for hotspots like Bapu Dham Colony.“Under reverse quarantine, a person who is vulnerable, say old age group, with imminent danger of his contracting the infection from other sick people is kept away until the danger passes,” Dr Goel said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/50-covid-19-patients-admitted-to-chandigarh-s-pgimer-in-13-39-age-group/story-XPHCmyvEcSC0PvzrBl6MfL.html
14-05-2020||City||Five staffers of Ludhiana tyre factory that reopened after relaxations found positive||Five more male employees of a tyre manufacturing factory in Ludhiana’s Focal Point area tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday, taking the district count to 141.Ludhiana civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the samples of the five men were taken after their 64-year-old manager was found positive on May 6. On May 8, three other male employees had also tested positive.The employees and the manager had resumed work at factory on May 1 after the state government relaxed the curfew restrictions for the industrial sector.The tyre factory has been sealed to contain further spread of the virus.The manager is admitted at Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH), Ludhiana, where he remains on ventilator support. A resident of Kabir Nagar, he suffers from hypertension, diabetes and asthma, and had complained of breathlessness, following which he was sampled at the civil hospital and later shifted to CMCH.His wife and son had also tested positive, but are asymptomatic.The employees testing positive on Wednesday are residents of Doraha, Payal, Miller Gunj, Dugri and Haibowal. They are aged 37, 25, 57 , 42, 41, respectively.The other three employees are from Khanna, Dugri and New Sunder Nagar.The factory owners were also tested, and were found negative. SHARED OFFICE SPACEAccording to the health authorities, the manager had been visiting the factory despite suffering from cough and fever.Many of the eight employees found positive share an air-conditioned (AC) room, and as part of daily work, exchanged various documents and files, which may have resulted in them picking up the infection, said a health department official, whose team is tracking the manager’s primary and secondary contacts.TRIO HAD VISITED PRIVATE HOSPITALThe three employees found positive on May 8 had also visited Mohandai Oswal Hospital at Focal Point for a medical check-up on May 7. But, did not disclose that they had been sampled by the health department for Covid-19 testing. This caused anxious moments at the hospital, as news of their results spread.The hospital authorities maintained that they had returned from the OPD after medical check-up.Deputy commissioner (DC) Pradeep Kumar Agrawal said a total of 4,421 samples had been collected in the district, of which reports of 4,048 samples were negative and 141 positive. As many as 13 patients have recovered and been discharged from hospital, while six patients have succumbed to the disease.JAMMU MAN CREMATEDThe 65-year-old Covid-19 patient from Jammu, who died at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) on May 9, was cremated at Ramgarhia Crematorium near Dholewal Military Complex on Wednesday.His cremation was carried out in the presence of two relatives. The patient, who hailed from RS Pura area in Jammu, had visited the hospital on May 1 and during treatment was found positive for Covid-19 on May 4.TWO DMCH WARD BOYS POSITIVE: 160 EMPLOYEES QUARANTINEDAfter two ward boys tested positive in the past one week, DMCH authorities have asked 160 employees to remain under home quarantine for 14 days.Hospital’s Covid in-charge Dr Ashwani Chaudhary said the employees were quarantined as a preventive measure.Sources said besides the patient from Jammu, the staff had come in contact with three Ludhiana patients from Khanna, Rajpura and Faridkot, who were scheduled to undergo surgeries at the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-staffers-of-ludhiana-tyre-factory-that-reopened-after-relaxations-found-positive/story-uBVEWULCEYRs79lt3DIx0J.html
14-05-2020||City||Mohali couple, daughter recover, active Covid-19 cases 44||A Nayagaon couple and their 45-day-old daughter recovered from Covid-19 and were discharged from the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, on Wednesday.With this, the number of active Covid-19 cases in Mohali district came down to 44.Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said the number of patients to have recovered from the disease had risen to 58. Meanwhile, with no fresh case reported, the number of confirmed cases stands at 105.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-couple-daughter-recover-active-covid-19-cases-44/story-CX9fd5OHCXeDSJzBtO4c7L.html
14-05-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai may have 45,000 to 46,000 cases by May-end, projects BMC chief||The city’s newly elected Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) chief IS Chahal speaks to HT on the plan to curb the spread of Covid-19 in Mumbai. Excerpts:What is your assessment of Mumbai’s performance in managing the pandemic so far?We are putting in our best. Standard operating procedures are already in place. Ward officers are the backbone of the system. I sat with them for a good 10 hours. People have worked hard and should get due credit for the work they did in the past 50 days. I have told my officers that if Mumbai has 14,000+ cases, and active cases are only around 11,000+, there is no need to feel demoralised. Look at our testing. Maharashtra has carried out 2.30 lakh tests, of which 1.25 lakh are from Mumbai only, which is 33% of the testing in the country. Mumbai has carried out 9,000 tests per million, compared to Delhi’s 4,000 tests per million. These things have not happened automatically. Of course, there are some bottle necks, which we are trying to resolve.What are the bottlenecks you have identified?We started from contact-tracing. How do you identify contacts and quarantine them? In slums, how do you quarantine high-risk contacts? We have deliberated on how to increase the ratio of contacts traced from 1:3 to 1:10. That is, for every one positive patient, trace up to 10 high-risk contacts, instead of the current average of three. We are deliberating on how to make contact-tracing more accurate.Equally important is filing data on the ICMR website. When I joined, it showed only 54% contact-tracing, when we had done 98%. In the past five days, the contact-tracing went to 76%, just by updating the official data. When the Centre sees this, they underestimate Mumbai’s work, [that too] just because the data is not updated. There will be no compromise on data filing.Will you replan the way containment zones are monitored?Yes. I am rationalising the number of containment zones. A population of 5,000 to 6,000 is apt for one containment zone. However, in Mumbai, every building is one containment zone. The so-called 2,800 containment zones in Mumbai looks frightful. But 1,153 are standalone buildings, with one Covid-19 case. The number of containment zones, 2800, which is rising rapidly everyday, scares people. Manning these containment zones is also a waste of police manpower. When I joined on Friday, I saw 250 zones were created in a single day on Thursday. When I went into the details, I found that 50 cases have led to 50 containment zones. One containment zone for one case. This has led to panic. I have drafted a proforma for management committees of these buildings. While health workers can go there, take out comorbid people and disinfect the building, the society will have to ensure no one goes in and out of the building. Self-management of containment zones is necessary. It will reduce the number of containment zones by half.What about the testing protocol?I have announced a new testing policy. There were a lot of ambiguities. For example, if there is an elective surgery, should you do a Covid-19 test or not? When should a pregnant woman get a Covid-19 test done? If someone is going through dialysis, what is the procedure?What other changes will be made?I am making standard operating procedures for everything. We have 307 flu clinics (fever clinics) and we want to impose ‘military-type’ discipline there. I have drafted a format which says when you [the doctor at the clinic] recommend someone’s test, you will have to certify that he is symptomatic, and that he has not been given any treatment, any paracetamol. It is not your business to prescribe treatment. You have to certify that you are following ICMR guidelines while prescribing tests. If anyone is found violating this, their licence will be cancelled. Tomorrow no one can accuse us and say we were trying to curb a patient’s symptoms by giving medicines. I have issued vertical orders for tasks given to all officers. Everyone should know who should do what. If a municipal commissioner is in-charge of Mumbai and all its aspects, a ward officer can be in-charge of his ward in the same way.What is the worst-case scenario expected for Mumbai?I am projecting 23,000-odd active cases in Mumbai by May 21-23. This month, the total may reach 45,000-46,000 cases. When I joined last Friday, the doubling rate was eight days. As of Tuesday evening, it has become 10.9 days, so almost 11 days. I have 14,900 cases, but active cases are 11,500 after deleting cases of discharges and deaths. That is how we are calculating the cases for Mumbai.Is Mumbai prepared to handle it?At least 60-65% of those quarantined are in our Covid Care Centres (CCC), where we have 35,000 beds. The remaining 40% are in health centres and hospitals [(dedicated Covid health centres (DCHC), and dedicated Covid hospitals (DCH)]. The capacity of our DCHC and DCH is 4,200 beds. Presently, 400 beds are vacant.The BMC has planned that 200 beds will be added from the government’s side daily. We are also going for jumbo ICUs now at SevenHills hospital, BKC grounds, JJ Hospital and St George hospital. Private hospitals have promised me they will create additional beds for Mumbai. With all this, Mumbai can jump to 8,000 beds very fast, and be ahead of the Covid-19 outbreak’s pace.Moreover, I am trying to enhance beds at CCCs as well. Today I am visiting NCSI dome, where we are establishing a 50-bed ICU, which can be scaled up to 200 beds. Similarly, beds at the BKC grounds are reaching 1,000. At BKC grounds, I plan to put 300 ICU beds and make it into a DCHC. When will Mumbai flatten the curve?The lockdown is a very good decision. Our cases are 14,000+, and our doubling rate is 10 days. This rate will remain only if Mumbai gets 1,400 cases in one day, but instead we are getting 600 to 700 cases. So Mumbai may touch the doubling rate of 14 in 3-4 days. The moment that happens, even if it happens in seven days, by May 20 or 21, Mumbai can compete with the 14-day cycle, due to the new discharge policy of the Government of India. If some patients can get discharged on the 7th or 8th day or the 10th day and the doubling rate is touching 14, it will show a downward curve. In another scenario, some of these patients will still take a maximum of 14 days to be discharged and because the doubling rate is projected to be 14, another person will come to occupy the same bed in 14 days. Bed management will stabilise. By May 31, the doubling rate can go up to 17 or 18 and the battle is almost won.How long can the lockdown practically last?I am very open to kickstarting the economy of the city, but we have to be very wise while doing it. Yesterday, I opened the entire diamond market of Mumbai. In the diamond market, where there is very limited labour and specialised labour, and there are ₹5,000-crore exports waiting to happen, opening up the market can be beneficial. Next, I will look at Nariman Point. But none of these can happen at the cost of spreading Covid-19. If I feel something is going to spread Covid-19, like opening a wine shop with long queues, then I am not going to change that till the end of May.Do you think there will be a situation where you may have to take a stance contradictory to the state or Centre, like it happened with opening of liquor shops? I have already discussed this with the chief minister and chief secretary of Maharashtra. I have said I will take the government into confidence before taking any decision for Mumbai. Once we announce a decision on BMC level, it shall not be changed. What is your assessment of Dharavi?When I was in Dharavi, I asked the ward officer to show me a map of Dharavi, and show me in colours where all the virus has spread. I was surprised to see there are no Covid-19 cases in 80% of Dharavi. There has to be a difference between a containment zone in Dharavi and in a posh 30-storey building in the rest of the city. They cannot have the same parameters. How challenging is this posting?I was monitoring Covid-19 at state level for the past 50 days. I got associated with Covid-19 [management work] on March 21, when the Maharashtra government announced the lockdown. The chief minister made me in-charge of monitoring the entire state, my Google drives are filled with 34 collectors and 27 municipal commissioner’s data, monitoring their contact-tracing efforts, containment zones and hospital categories. I was doing all of this for the entire state. In April, I made the hospital management plan – CCCs, DCHCs, and DCHs for the state. When I joined the BMC, I was already 45 days into the fight.How prepared is Mumbai to handle the monsoon?Every week, once or twice I am going to inspect the nullahs and Mithi river. At Mithi, instead of eight hours, dredging is happening for 16 hours. The road work was suffering due to lack of labour. We now have a software that will estimate how much cement is needed for any stretch of road. I have asked them to use the software and make payments, so dozens of people don’t have to stand on the road taking measurements for work to commence. The work will speed up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/boosting-bed-capacity-to-handle-covid-spread-bmc-chief/story-yWFPsXkbO0UhSujxbk9ytM.html
14-05-2020||City||10 lakh food packets and counting, Radha Soami Satsang Beas doing its bit for Chandigarh tricity’s needy||Far away from the limelight, an army of workers of a religious sect has been cooking tonnes of food for thousands of homeless and poor in the tricity ever since the lockdown began on March 24. Headquartered at Beas (Punjab), the Radha Soami Satsang Beas, a spiritual organisation based on the teachings of all religions, has given as many as 10 lakh food packets to the local administrations of Mohali, Chandigarh and Panchkula for further distribution.Food is prepared at three centres of the sect – in Mohali, Chandigarh and Panchkula - twice a day.At the Mohali centre in Sector 76, around 100 followers prepare 12,000 food packets a day. A follower said, “We get all the ration from our headquarters in Beas and by Wednesday, we have given around 5 lakh packets to the administration. The packets were also given to migrant workers leaving for their native places in trains. Now since most of the migrant workers have left the district, we will be reducing the number of packets to 50% from May 18.”Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu had also visited the Mohali centre and applauded the selfless service of the followers.Mohali sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Jagdeep Sehgal said, “Whenever we need it, we just tell them and they deliver hygienic food in no time.”Similarly at the Chandigarh centre in Sector 27, around 5,000 food packets are prepared by 70 workers every day. “Within seven weeks, the centre has prepared and given around 2.35 lakh food packets to us to date, which is not an easy thing to do,” said SDM (south), Chandigarh, Manish Lohan.The Panchkula centre in Saket, where around 5,400 packets are prepared every day, has contributed 2.53 lakh food packets to date. Panchkula SDM Dheeraj Chahal said, “Around 150 workers at the centre have been fulfilling our requirement since day one.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/10-lakh-food-packets-and-counting-radha-soami-satsang-beas-doing-its-bit-for-chandigarh-tricity-s-needy/story-MVqhom2P5GfOqpy9XqY6NP.html
14-05-2020||Mumbai||Maha sees biggest 1-day spike of 1,495 cases, tally passes 25K||Maharashtra on Wednesday registered its highest single-day jump in coronavirus cases and deaths with 1,495 new infections and 54 more deaths, taking the tally past 25,000 to 25,922 and toll to 975.The country’s worst-affected city, Mumbai, breached the 15,000 mark with 800 new cases, taking its count to 15,747.According to the data provided by the state health department, of the deaths recorded on Wednesday, 40 were in Mumbai, six in Pune, two each in Jalgaon, Solapur and Aurangabad, and one each in Vasai-Virar and Ratnagiri. The health department said it has not added Mumbai’s 220 patients from May 7 to the total due to the absence of reconciliation on the portal of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).More than 50% of the state’s Covid-19 cases have come in this month alone. The first case was on March 9. From May 1 to May 13, Maharashtra has clocked 13,820 cases, 53.31% of the total.According to the state health department, 422 patients recovered from Covid-19 on Wednesday, taking the total number of recoveries to 5,547. The state has, so far, conducted 2,30,857 tests, of which 2.03,439 have tested negative. Meanwhile, the Covid-19 count in other hotspots is Pune city: 2,830; Thane city: 1,122; Navi Mumbai 1,018; Malegaon: 617 and Aurangabad: 586. Meanwhile, to ease the pressure off the state police who are enforcing the lockdown, the state government has asked for 20 companies of the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) from the Centre. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had last week indicated that the state could seek additional forces from the Centre to give a break to the state police force in phases. Several police officers and personnel have been affected by coronavirus infections, while police personnel are under a lot of strain.“Many Maharashtra police personnel have tested positive for the virus and need time to rest and recuperate,” he said, adding that May 25 is Eid and the state would need an augmented security presence to ensure law and order is not disturbed. “We’ve hence asked for 20 CAPF companies to be deployed urgently to help the police,” said state home minister Anil Deshmukh.The state government is now also looking at providing supplementary treatment of Ayurvedic, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha, and Homeopathy (AYUSH) medicines along with allopathy treatment for Covid-19 patients, who are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms. The state medical education and drugs department issued a government resolution to form a task force on AYUSH for Covid-19 under Dr TP Lahane, director of medical education and research.The nine-member panel, which also has former city mayor Dr Shubha Raul, will prepare guidelines for a treatment protocol, said Dr Kuldeep Raj Kohli, director of Ayush Maharashtra and joint chairman of the task force.“The objective is to how best we can use Ayush in Maharashtra during this Covid-19 outbreak. The task forces would prepare a treatment protocol for people who are quarantined, are asymptomatic, or have mild symptoms. It would need clearance from the state’s Covid task force. People now are taking different types of medicine. At least they would get a guideline. People would then take medicines that the task force has asked to be taken,” Kohli said. He added that no form of allopathy treatment would be stopped for patients. Ayush treatment, if approved, would be complementary.A state health department official said that other states such as Gujarat have tried Ayurvedic medicine on asymptomatic patients in Ahmedabad. Similarly, a small group of patients may be given medicines prescribed by the task force as a trial to see the duration of recovery.Meanwhile, as numbers continue to soar in Aurangabad city, state health minister Rajesh Tope and district’s guardian minister Subhash Desai individually took stock of the preparedness. Tope has set up a task force to tackle the rising number of cases. The city has 586 cases and 18 deaths. The doubling rate in the city stands at eight days, which the civic body has brought down from 4.5 days earlier this month. Malegaon, in Nashik district, is another hotspot in the state where cases have seen a surge. Tope visited Malegaon on Wednesday to take stock of the situation and preparedness.Aurangabad, which is a hotspot, has 12 containment zones with 55 localities. Desai, who inspected the preparedness in the city, said, “There AMC (Aurangabad Municipal Corporation) has kept 4,000 beds available. Therefore, in case there is a spike, later on, there is no fear of any shortage of hospital beds. Besides, district medical college has kept 450 beds to treat severe and critical cases. The arrangements are so far adequate. We have planned in such a manner that around 50 beds will be available for patients.”Desai added that the industries department, which he heads, has allowed a 5,702 sq m industrial facility in the city to be converted into a 250-bed Covid-Care Centre in a month’s time.Maharashtra has, so far, tested 2,30,857 samples at both government and private-testing facilities. According to the data provided by the medical education department, the percentage of people found positive has increased from 7% earlier this month to 12% on May 13. Health department officials are attributing this increase to an increasing number of tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-sees-biggest-1-day-spike-of-1-495-cases-tally-passes-25k/story-FWFzrvsCAdOg3PCU1AwRLP.html
14-05-2020||City||15-year-old boy stabbed to death in clash between families in Kharar village||A 15-year-old boy died on Tuesday following a clash between two families in Khanpur village in Kharar. The victim, a student of Class 10, whose identity is being concealed as he is a minor, was living in Channalo village in Kurali with his mother after she had separated from her husband.Police said the victim’s two cousins (both sisters) of Khanpur had eloped with two boys staying in a house in their neighbourhood. The girls had returned home, following which the victim and other relatives went to the boys’ house to confront them on May 8. Arguments snowballed into a clash, following which the victim’s relatives fled, but he was caught, beaten up, and stabbed by a member of the other family with a sharp-edged weapon.The victim was taken to the Kurali civil hospital from where he was referred to the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Chandigarh, where he died during treatment on May 12.Kharar (city) station house officer Baghwant Singh said a murder case under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code was registered against Sukhwinder Singh alias Sukha, Lucky alias Lakwinder Singh, Gurpreet Singh alias Vicky, Manpreet Singh alias Ladi along with 6 unknown residents of Khanpur.Earlier on May 8, two residents of Khanpur who were at the spot and got injured amid the stone pelting during the clash, had given in writing to the police that they had struck a compromise with the girls’ family. It was only after the boy’s death that a murder case was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/15-year-old-boy-stabbed-to-death-in-clash-between-families-in-kharar-village/story-Mpeuur08Dl5Xf3DnhTZ7eN.html
14-05-2020||Chandigarh||64% samples tested for Covid-19 at Chandigarh’s PGIMER are from Punjab, Haryana||In Chandigarh’s main Covid-19 testing centre at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), 64% samples are from the neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana. With even the other two testing centres, at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, and the Institute of Microbial Technology (IMTECH), under pressure, delivery of results, even those of pregnant women, are getting delayed, it has been learnt.As of now, the PGIMER is testing the highest number of samples in a day in the city, having dealt with 6,678 from March 7 to May 11. In comparison, IMTECH has tested 1,831 samples till May 6 (started from the third week of April) and 1,200 have been tested at GMCH from March 25 to May 11.PGIMER data reveals that of 6,678 samples, the highest number (2,898) came from Punjab, followed by Chandigarh (2,401) and Haryana (1,364).“The institute is catering to not only the tricity (Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula), but also some other districts of Punjab, such as Jalandhar and Rupnagar, on request. In Haryana, we cater to Ambala and Yamunanagar as well,” says Dr Mini P Singh, nodal officer, Covid-19 laboratory services, PGIMER.Admitting to the “pressure” this puts on the existing infrastructure, she says the lab remains closed for only two to three hours a day. “We are providing training to adjoining states. We have already trained 11 officials from laboratories in the northern region and currently nine more are undergoing training. We hope the adjoining states will soon gear up for more testing,” says Dr Singh.Manuj Tripathi, who is the IMTECH official spokesperson, says though their laboratory receives samples from Chandigarh, Punjab and Haryana, the institute does not maintain area-wise data.A GMCH official, not wishing to be named, says 40 to 55 samples are received daily, almost all of them from Chandigarh. “Ours is a small lab and we test only samples from the city and very few from other states. So far, we have tested 1,200 samples.”Meanwhile, a Government Multi Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, official, not wishing to be named, claimed reports of samples of pregnant women “sent to the IMTECH laboratory” are being received after 48 hours. Recently, three women were tested Covid-19 positive after they delivered babies, exposing several staff and other women to risk. “The reports are received after 48 hours. We want these should be sent within six to seven hours,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/64-samples-tested-for-covid-19-at-chandigarh-s-pgimer-are-from-punjab-haryana/story-A5HNS3raxudhO6FP8L4y7K.html
14-05-2020||Chandigarh||PGIMER begins using TB machine for quicker Covid testing||The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) started using tuberculosis machine - GeneXpert - for quicker diagnosis of coronavirus disease (Covid) on Wednesday.The GeneXpert was launched in PGIMER in 2016 to diagnose multi-drug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) for speedy detection of TB.Dr Arunaloke Chakrabarti, head, medical microbiology, said, “The GeneXpert testing is a very sensitive and quick procedure. We get results within 45 minutes and can hand over report to the patient within an hour.”The polymerase chain reaction (PCR) testing system generates results in 6-7 hours.Chakrabarti said, “But the major problem is of the availability of cartridges. We only have 300 and are trying to get 1,000 more. One cartridge is used for one patient. So, we will use this test only in cases that are too critical and need quick intervention. For instance, in a case of a patient with severe head injury, who cannot wait for seven hours and needs immediate surgery.”Dr Chakrabarti said that the lab will work 24x7 to tend to emergency cases as and when they come.MENTORING OTHER STATES FOR LABSDr Mini P Singh, nodal officer, Covid-19 laboratory services, PGIMER, said, “The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has appointed the PGIMER as mentor institute for some states to approve new laboratories to start polymerase chain reaction (PCR) testing system and GeneXpert.”The PGIMER has been allocated Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Chandigarh, and Uttarakhand.Singh said, “We have recently approved a laboratory in Ambala and one at PGIMER to start the GeneXpert test for Covid-19. Similarly, labs in General Hospital and Command Hospital, both in Panchkula, have been approved to start PCR testing. The Punjab Biotechnology Incubator and National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research, Mohali, have also approached us expressing interest in starting Covid testing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgimer-begins-using-tb-machine-for-quicker-covid-testing/story-u66QGcSx7XIRcLoNbUajwI.html
14-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn halts migrant registration after rush from other districts||The UT administration stopped registration for Shramik special trains after around 5,000 migrants from Punjab and Haryana thronged the Inter State Bus Terminal (ISBT) in Sector 43, Chandigarh, with valid passes, leading to chaos on Wednesday.Police had to resort to lathicharge to bring the situation under control.“The online portal for registration was meant for migrants living in Chandigarh. However, it did not seek any valid identity proof from those applying. Sensing an opportunity, migrants from across the region applied on the portal and secured passes,” said a police official, who was on duty at the bus stand.Police said the migrants reached the bus stand at 5am for screening and boarding the bus to the railway station.Yashpal Garg, UT social welfare secretary, said, “People who reached the bus stand from other districts are now advised not to enter Chandigarh because their journey will be arranged by authorities of their respective districts.”He said the online registration had been suspended and only migrants with registration numbers will be allowed.“For the past four days, trains were carrying around 1,180 passengers in each round, but today 1,488 people were accommodated in a train as the number of migrants went beyond the prescribed limit. As the migrants included women and children, they were allowed to travel,” said a police official, requesting anonymity as he was not authorised to talk to media.With the UT administration refusing people having valid registration to board trains and asking them to return, panicked gripped the migrants, who then did not follow the social-distancing norms and rushed towards the counters.A senior police official said, “We had no option, but to use mild force to control the crowd.”Meanwhile, migrants claimed that the administration had intimated them about the details of their journeys. “We were only asked to show confirmation of registration and we did. But instead of being taken to the train, we were thrashed,” said Sonu, one of the migrants, who wanted to return to Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-admn-halts-migrant-registration-after-rush-from-other-districts/story-8aoTroi3MBPSjM0gx9ictL.html
14-05-2020||Chandigarh||Rs 20-lakh cr package evokes mixed response from Punjab industry||The state’s industry has given a mixed response to the Rs 20-lakh crore economic package, the details of which were announced by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman at a press conference on Wednesday. Welcoming the change in definition of the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisations (FICO) chairman KK Seth and president Gurmeet Singh Kular said special relief was still missing. Under the new definition, units with an investment of less than Rs 1 crore will be under the micro category; previously, this ceiling was Rs 25 lakh.All Industries and Trade Forum (AITF) claimed that now the majority of the benefits would be availed by bigger players and micro units wouldn’t benefit. President of the Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU) Upkar Singh Ahuja and general secreary Pankaj Sharma said, “The announcement of Rs 3 lakh crore for providing collateral-free loans is mere eyewash. A similar scheme is already there and it has not worked” The CICU, however, welcomed the decision to invite tenders of up to Rs 200 crore domestically.AITF national president Badish Jindal said, “Change in the definition of MSMEs will destroy the future of the tiny sector. The labour benefits announced are only linked to the Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO), while only 10% of India’s workforce is under it.”Jindal added, “The main concern of the industry was salaries to workers, interest on bank loans, interest-free loans for starting businesses, lower taxation rates, exemption from direct taxes etc. Unfortunately, the government has again failed to deliver.”PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry (PHDCCI) state mentor and former chairman RS Sachdeva said there was no immediate relief for the industry. “We were expecting relief with regard to labour wages, and interest part of our term loans, which the government said will be postponed for three months. There is nothing of any benefit to industry right now,” he said, expressing dissatisfaction.In Jalandhar, Rajesh Kharbanda, MD, Nivia Sports, said, “Reduction is service tax was a long-term demand, which has been met. Some of the steps will improve liquidity and help restart operations.”— With inputs from Jalandhar and Chandigarh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rs-20-lakh-cr-package-evokes-mixed-response-from-punjab-industry/story-6kgYzD8A23lAuGE9TLZvRP.html
14-05-2020||Noida||GB Nagar gets one more Covid-19 testing and plasma therapy centre||Gautam Budh Nagar district got its third Covid-19 testing centre on Wednesday with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) approving the Super Speciality Paediatric Hospital & Post Graduate Teaching Institute (SSPHPGTI) in Sector 30. The apex Indian body for biomedical research also permitted the hospital to administer plasma therapy on trial basis to Covid-19 patients.The Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida and National Institute of Biologicals in Noida are the other two testing centers, while GIMS also has approval to administer plasma therapy.Plasma therapy involves treating the patient with the plasma of a compatible patient who recovered from Covid-19. The antibodies present in the plasma is expected to help the patient fight off the infection.Sharda Hospital in Greater Noida and Jaypee Hospital in Noida’s sector 128 await the final nod from the state authorities to use their molecular labs for Covid-19 testing.With more testing centers coming up in the district, it is expected that it will reduce the time to test samples. Recently, the NIB sent over 100 samples to the GIMS lab following a technical snag. GIMS also faced the similar problem few days back following which many results were returned “inconclusive”.“The laboratory has been approved for Covid– 19 testing by ICMR and as per recommendations of King George’s Medical University (KGMU, in Lucknow) after remote assessment of the laboratory quality and facility. External Quality Result Validation with National Institute of Biologicals, Noida was also done with control samples before commencement of the facility,” informed the SSPHPGTI authorities.The hospital has also started a Covid Plasma Registry which will work as a plasma reserve of all blood groups, to serve as the nodal centre for anybody who needs plasma at national level, informed Dr DK Gupta, director, SSPHPGTI. Six more casesGB Nagar recorded six more Covid-19 cases on Wednesday taking the total to 236 in the district.The new patients include a 34-year-old man from the Sector 66, he contracted infection through the earlier cases in the area. Recently, a 62-year-old man had died from the area. A 51-year-old man from sector 5 and a 24-year-old man from sector 8 of Noida were also found positive for the infection. Officials are suspecting that the patient from sector 5 is part of the Ceasefire trail as four persons including a domestic help of an employee of fire safety solutions company Ceasefire, who was found positive earlier.The cluster of JJ Colony in Sector 8, 9 and 10 is the most problematic cluster for the officials to contain the Covid-19 spread in the district. Around 54 persons have been found positive for the deadly virus from the JJ Colony of sectors 8, 9 and 10 till now.A 30-year-old male doctor working in a private hospital and a resident of Jewar and a 30-year-old woman from sector 76 of Noida were also found positive. Their source of infection is yet to be identified. The woman lives with her husband in a residential society and her source of infection is yet to be identified as she has not been going out since the lockdown was announced.A 22-year-old man from sector 22 was also found positive and he is expected to have contracted the infection from the two elderly couple who were found positive earlier. The 60-year-old husband of the woman had died on Monday night.Two patients were discharged from the Sharda Hospital including a 25-year-old Afghan national from Greater Noida and a 42-year-old man from the sector 8 of Noida. By Wednesday night, the health department collected a total of 4376 samples. Currently, there are 90 active Covid-19 cases in the district. Around 501 persons are under institutional quarantine while positive 143 patients have been discharged after completing the treatment successfully.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gb-nagar-one-more-covid-19-testing-and-plasma-therapy-centre/story-BcXej62qgykH6IRxNdelIJ.html
14-05-2020||Noida||Noida: Police couple donates blood to Covid-19 patient on dialysis||With most hospitals facing a shortage of blood, as donors are staying away due to the ongoing lockdown, a deputy superintendent of police (DSP) and her husband, the station house officer (SHO) of the Knowledge Park police station, came forward to donate blood to a 53-year-old woman diagnosed with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and in need of dialysis.The 53-year-old has been undergoing treatment at Sharda Hospital in Greater Noida and needed a dialysis -- a process of removing excess water and toxins from the blood in people whose kidneys can no longer perform these functions naturally-- after she developed kidney issues.The woman needed blood for dialysis and the hospital staff were finding it tough to arrange it as their blood banks are running dry and donor numbers have decreased. As the hospital falls under the jurisdiction of the Knowledge Park police station, SHO Baljeet Singh, 38, came to know of the crisis and he decided to volunteer.The patient’s blood group was O+ and the SHO’s was also O+. The DSP’s blood group was A+. Initially, the relatives of the woman were reluctant to come forward to give blood as she had Covid-19 but after the SHO and his wife came forward, they, too, did so at a later stage.His wife Rajni, 44, posted as DSP in Meerut, was also in town when Singh decided to donate blood. She, too, volunteered and gave blood. Doctors said the woman patient has almost recovered from the Covid-19 and is expected to be discharged soon. “I had come to know that the hospital needed blood for the woman and I decided to volunteer. I am happy that my wife also volunteered for the cause. Blood banks have been facing a shortage following the lockdown. We are happy that the woman is recovering. Every person should come forward in this crisis to help one another,” Baljeet Singh said.Rotary Noida Blood Bank has been trying to encourage volunteers to come forward and donate blood. “We have been appealing to our volunteers and others to come forward and donate blood. We are following the scientific and the safest way to collect blood and donors need not be scared. We recently organised two blood donation camps in the district and many had attended these camps,” Sudhir Walia, trustee, Rotary Noida Blood Bank, said.“We were arranging blood for the patient when the SHO came to know about the matter. He and his wife donated blood. We need more such officers and people to come forward to help out patients. The woman has recovered and will be discharged soon. She has been undergoing treatment for Covid-19 and dialysis for around 20 days,” Dr Ajit Kumar, joint registrar and media spokesperson, Sharda University, Greater Noida, said.Indian medical Association said the administration should encourage and appreciate people who are coming out to donate blood. “It is important that people are encouraged to donate blood as there is a health crisis in the country. If we will appreciate the work of such volunteers, then it will motivate others. The administration should provide pickup and drop facilities to donors to encourage people,” Dr NK Sharma, president, IMA (Noida) said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-police-couple-donates-blood-to-covid-19-patient-on-dialysis/story-nZWVgoNbNJXfzriTGEu7gO.html
14-05-2020||Noida||Residents demand vendors supplying essential goods be tested for Covid-19||Residents of various housing societies in Noida have demanded that the administration conduct Covid-19 tests on all security guards, sanitation employees, vendors supplying essential goods and others who move in and out of housing societies on an urgent basis. Earlier, the administration had announced that it will conduct tests of persons supplying essential services and goods to residents, but officials said lack of sufficient Covid-19 testing kits has stalled the process. Gautam Budh Nagar district residents’ welfare association (DDRWA), a residents’ group, had also written to the Uttar Pradesh government and Narendra Bhooshan, the in-charge of district to handle Covid-19 outbreak, demanding these tests. Residents also put forth their demands during a webinar attended by Bhooshan on Tuesday. In the one-hour long webinar, at least 40 people from Noida and Greater Noida interacted with officials.“We demanded that the administration conduct the Covid-19 tests on all those who are daily on the ground, either cleaning or collecting garbage or supplying essential goods to each household. These people daily interact with residents and it is necessary to ensure that they are infection-free,” NP Singh, president, DDRWA, said.There are at least 900 vendors in Noida and 700 in Greater Noida supplying vegetables, fruits, medicines and groceries to households. There are 33 hot spots where vendors are delivering services at doorstep and in the remaining areas, essential services are being delivered at society gates, officials said.“Apart from vendors, the security guards manning housing societies should also be tested. It is not only important for their safety but also for that of residents who interact with them,” Sanjeev Kumar,Sector 51 RWA general secretary, said.There are at least 5,000 sanitation employees in Noida and about 1,000 in Greater Noida engaged in collecting garbage, sweeping and cleaning parks and roads.“The administration must test the sanitation employees because they touch all common areas while cleaning or collecting garbage,” Lokesh Sharma, a resident of Knowledge Park-4, Greater Noida, said.However, to conduct tests of all such people is not possible for the administration.“We will follow laid down guidelines on conducting tests as there is a clear protocol on how to go about it. The vendors or the firms that engage such people can get their employees tested at health department facilities and if anyone is symptomatic, then a Covid-19 test can done. We cannot test all of them at one go due to limited number of testing kits available,” Bhooshan, who is also the chief executive officer of the Greater Noida authority, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/residents-demand-vendors-supplying-essential-goods-be-tested-for-covid/story-PHFqAZXvYAkE4lqBhnjglO.html
14-05-2020||Mumbai||2,500 asymptomatic patients in Mumbai to be discharged to free up beds||The 35,009 beds in Mumbai that were reserved for asymptomatic Covid-19 patients will now be kept for symptomatic patients only. The 2,500-odd asymptomatic patients who are kept under observation at Covid care centres (CCC) will be discharged soon as per the new policy of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).As per the earlier guidelines issued by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), high-risk contacts of Covid patients with comorbidities were shifted to CCC-1, while asymptomatic patients who did not require critical care were sent to CCC-2. Serious patients with fever and low oxygen saturation were sent to dedicated Covid hospitals (DCH).However, according to the new rules, all asymptomatic patients will be discharged from CCC-2 and will be kept under home quarantine. This will free up beds at CCC-2 for patients showing mild symptoms and those who do not require critical care.“It is up to the doctors to decide who is mildly, moderately, and severely infected. Normally, patients who just have a cough and cold with no other complications would be kept in CCC-2 while patients with fever and low oxygen saturation with breathing problems would be shifted to hospitals,” said Dr Pramod Ingale, former dean of Lokmanya Tilak Municipal General Hospital, also known as Sion hospital. Dr Daksha Shah, deputy health officer also confirmed the new development.At present, 2,425 asymptomatic patients have been kept under observation in converted CCC-2 in 138 schools, 15 buildings, 19 hospitals, 40 halls, and several gymkhanas and hotels. If they do not develop any symptoms, they will be discharged and all the 35,009 beds that were reserved for asymptomatic patients will be saved for the treatment of mild symptomatic patients.“Our main priority is symptomatic patients, so we will reserve all these beds for them. If they develop complications, then we will shift them to dedicated hospitals. We are also in the process of increasing the number of Covid beds in hospitals,” said Dr Ramesh Bharmal, director of major civic-run hospitals and current dean of Sion hospital.The plan to discharge these asymptomatic patients has raised concerns among health activists. They have opined that if asymptomatic patients are discharged in red zones like Dharavi, Worli, Govandi, and Kandivli, the virus may spread further as social distancing is an uphill task in these congested areas.“Most people in Mumbai stay in one-bedroom houses and many others in slums where social distancing is a myth. Just being a carrier of the virus doesn’t mean that the asymptomatic patient can’t spread it to others. It is impossible to maintain safety in congested areas with common toilets,” said Dr Ravikant Singh, a health activist.When HT asked ward officers about this safety aspect of the discharge plan, they said that there is no clarification on the matter so far. “We are not in favour of this new rule. We have segregated the patients after days of fieldwork. Now, if we release them, we will be back to square one,” said a ward officer, on condition of anonymity.However, as per BMC officials, asymptomatic patients from slums will be given alternative accommodation. “During discharge, all these patients’ profiles are being checked. If anyone is found to be staying in slums, congested areas, or with family members with high-risk comorbidities, we will make alternative arrangements. Patients can even request the doctor in-charge for a separate accommodation after discharge,” said Dr Gautam Bhansali from Bombay Hospital, who is part of BMC’s Covid team.Highest CCC-2 bed count in these five wardsAn analysis of the data shows that the G/N ward, comprising Dharavi, Dadar, and Mahim, has a maximum number of asymptomatic patients kept under CCC-2 facilities. Among the 24 BMC wards, this area has recorded 1,230 cases — highest in the city. It is followed by G/S ward which has 13 CCC-2 centres with 5,868-bed facilities. The ward has 272 asymptomatic patients and they are kept under observation at the National Sports Club of India, Worli, which has 500 beds. This ward has recorded the second-highest number of Covid cases in the city.E ward, has 2,917 beds of which 221 are occupied by asymptomatic patients. Out of this, 123 are admitted to a Nagpada maternity home. This ward comprises areas like Byculla, Mumbai Central, and Nagpada, with 1,046 Covid cases. L ward has six centres with 2,899-bed capacity, however, only 180 of them are occupied. In the fifth position, H/E ward has 164 asymptomatic patients undergoing treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2-500-asymptomatic-patients-in-mumbai-to-be-discharged-to-free-up-beds/story-WX2UiSaksorCrOq8iTxPRK.html
14-05-2020||Noida||UPSRTC to charge Rs 10,000 for taxi rides from Delhi airport to Noida, Ghaziabad||The Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) will facilitate those wanting to travel from India Gandhi International Airport to Noida and Ghaziabad -- but at an exorbitantly heavy cost. Be ready to shell out as much as Rs10,000 for a taxi ride from the Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA) to any destination within a 250km radius. While scores of people are stranded at different places and struggling to reach home due to the outbreak of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the minimum cost of booking a taxi of the UPSRTC will be Rs 10,000 for sedans and Rs 12,000 for an SUV. Any additional distance, beyond the 250km, will incur additional charges. If your pockets don’t run so deep, the corporation’s buses will ply you, for a minimum of Rs 1,000 per seat in non air-conditioned bus and for Rs 1,320 per seat in air-conditioned bus for a distance of up to 100km.UPSRTC managing director Raj Shekhar, on May 9, issued a letter to the corporation’s regional managers in Noida and Ghaziabad, informing them that they will facilitate the travel of residents -- brought back from foreign countries under the Vande Bharat Mission -- from Delhi airport to Noida and Ghaziabad and other nearby areas. “The corporation will provide buses and taxis at the airport. Those people who would be cleared by the Delhi government to travel and have no symptoms of Covid-19, can avail of this service,” the letter said.The letter adds that booking a taxi for up to 250 km from the airport would cost Rs 10,000. “Each additional kilometre would cost Rs 40. Booking an SUV would cost Rs 12,000 for first 250km and Rs 50 for each additional kilometre,” it said. Besides the driver, only two persons can sit in the taxi,” it further stated.A single seat in a non air-conditioned bus would cost Rs 1,000 and a seat in an air-conditioned bus would cost Rs 1,320 for 100km. The charges would double for any distance 101-200km. The buses will accommodate a maximum of 26 persons, in order to maintain social distancing. At present, all people brought back from foreign countries are kept in 14-day quarantine in Delhi. Once they complete the quarantine period, the transport department would facilitate their travel to Noida, Ghaziabad and other cities.AK Singh, regional manager, UPSRTC, Ghaziabad, said he has received the letter. “At present, we engage our buses to ferry passengers from Delhi airport to different hotels and quarantine centres in Delhi. We have received the order from the headquarters to ferry returnees in buses and taxis. They will be transported as per the directions of the Delhi government and Ghaziabad administration,” he said. Singh did not comment on the high fare structure, except to say that it was decided by the headquarters. “We have received information that stranded people are sometimes fleeced by truck drivers and others promising lifts. Such commuting is also unsafe while the government initiative is safe,” he said.Anurag Yadav, assistant regional manager, UPSRTC, Noida, said until now some UPSRTC buses have ferried migrant people from Noida to other districts of Uttar Pradesh as well as to other states, on the directions of district administration. “The services to transport migrant workers were free of cost. Now, we have received a letter from the headquarters to ply buses and taxis from the Delhi airport. We will take suitable measures once the administration gives us the nod,” he said.KK Jain, general secretary, FONRWA, criticised the exorbitant fares and said it will further burden travellers. “We used to commute from Noida to IGIA for Rs 800 before the lockdown. A fare of Rs 10,000 for a single trip to Noida or Ghaziabad is too much. The government should reconsider the fare structure to help people who are already troubled by the lockdown the coronavirus spread,” he said.Responding to the news report, Raj Shekhar, UPSRTC managing director, on Thursday said that a three-member committee has been formed to review the order. “The officials of department of operation, technical and regional transport authority are members of this committee. They will look into the matter and submit recommendations in 24 hours. We may introduce some changes in the fare structure,” he said.Shekhar said that the Corporation had issued a letter for chartered rates for 250-km radius commuting. “This was not limited to Noida and Ghaziabad from Delhi airport. People can book the taxi from the airport for whole day and travel to different district like Bareilly, Moradabad, Meerut, etc. The taxi drivers will come with empty vehicles and they can’t book or lift commuters on return. The commuters need not to share the ride with others, unlike the other taxi services,” he said.Shekhar said that at present the people brought from abroad are quarantined in Delhi. “We have engaged some buses to ferry them from Airport to the hotels. We have not charged them any money till now,” he said. The Corporation is yet to start this chartered bus and taxi service from the Airport.Shekhar added that UPSRTC is reviewing its order specially pertaining to Noida, Ghaziabad commuting from Delhi. UPSRTC runs over 10,000 buses while it has a few taxis in each district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/upsrtc-to-charge-10-000-for-taxi-rides-from-delhi-airport-to-noida-ghaziabad/story-5ykwGP7A2FP3xLTHBVIOON.html
14-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi police to separate law and order duties from investigation||Delhi police will soon separate law and order and investigation duties in an attempt to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) among members of the force, according to a senior police officer who requested anonymity.Personnel posted on the streets on law and order duties will be advised not to visit the police stations and those at the stations won’t have to step out into the field, the officer said. The two groups will interchange their work after completing their shifts.At least 110 police officers of the rank of constable to a deputy commissioner of police(DCP) have tested positive for the disease. A 32-year-old constable died last week. More than 1,000 police personnel are in home quarantineFrom securing containment zones to maintaining social distancing on the roads, at liquor vends, markets and shelters for the homeless to feeding the hungry and maintaining law and order, police have been at the forefront of the fight against Covid-19 pandemic.“One, the division in work happens. This will be like our own work-from-home culture. The field duty officers can directly go home or to the facilities set up by the department for them. Keeping the police station premises sanitised is important. It is the place from where we maintain the law and order of the area and ensure all citizens are safe. This will be the first time that such a division on duties will happen,” the police officer said.Another officer said the police were adopting different measures to ensure that the virus does not seriously affect their work. To ensure that barracks inside stations and homes of the police personnel are safe, the department has arranged accommodation for at least 12,000 police officials on field duty in hostels, colleges, guest houses, hotels and community halls. Last month, the Chandni Mahal police station was sealed and at least eight policemen tested Covid-19 positive. The transmission had happened inside the barracks of the station where the constables lived.“We will ensure that the morale of our men and women is high. We are in this fight together. We have taken help from citizens and have space for 12,000 police officials, who need to be isolated or want to self-quarantine after completing their jobs,” the second officer said.With relaxations in the lockdown norms leading to more people on the roads, police apprehend more Covid-19 cases in the force. Many senior officers of the ranks of the special commissioner have been given additional responsibilities. The traffic chief is now in charge of overseeing the admission of police personnel in hospitals in critical cases. Other officers have been given tasks such as visiting police stations every day to check on social distancing measures and counselling the junior-most officers. There is also a team that visits police colonies to ensure that all families who need self-isolation are looked after. With ambulance vehicles in high demand, police have also converted some of their police vans into ambulance vehicles for police personnel and their families.“Our force is squarely meeting the challenges of prevention of infection and treatment and thus fine-tuning containment strategy on a day to day basis. At every station and unit, around 15% of staff are in self-isolation or leave. They are ready to join anytime. Many are also returning from quarantine or recovering from the disease. There is no cause of panic. We are prepared for the fight,” a third officer said.Retired Indian Police Service officer Prakash Singh, whose public interest litigation led to the Supreme Court passing landmark police reforms in 2006, said that if the Covid-19 pandemic has led to the division of law and order with investigation duties in police stations, it is a laudable initiative. Separation of law and order from investigation duties was part of the reforms mentioned by the apex court. “The importance of the police is evident in these times. This is the same force that was facing criticism for their handling of many cases recently. We have all read reports of the selfless work they have been doing at this time. They are in the frontline. If circumstances (police personnel getting infected with the virus) has forced them to make the division, then it’s a good move. Today they are working beyond their mandate. If this becomes permanent and is replicated across the country, it will lead to reforms in the true sense. And no government will have a problem with this division. It is just about the division of work, managing it and getting more manpower.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-police-to-separate-law-and-order-duties-from-investigation/story-cGgyoOk8w9qNt2pjX1tKyH.html
14-05-2020||Delhi||City doctors perform surgeries on Covid-19 patients with extreme care||Surgeons at Lok Nayak hospital, the 2,000-bed hospital dedicated to patients infected with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), have performed at least 15 surgeries on such patients.Of these, 14 were caesarean operations and one was to stem uncontrolled bleeding.This is the highest number of surgeries performed on Covid-19 patients in a city hospital.There have been at least four such surgeries at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), which accommodates the second-highest number of Covid-19 patients and has a dedicated operation theatre for suspected and positive Covid-19 patients.There are 578 Covid-19 positive patients admitted to Lok Nayak hospital and 403 admitted to AIIMS, according to the daily data shared by the government.“There have been four surgeries performed on Covid-19 positive patients so far, including two C-sections,” Dr DK Sharma, medical superintendent of AIIMS, said.Since the virus is highly infectious, the doctors have had to take several measures, such as changing the air-supply mechanism in operation theatres and using a fibre-glass box for the intubation of patients to reduce the risk of healthcare workers contracting the infection.At Lok Nayak hospital, an isolated air conditioning system and an exhaust are used to create a negative pressure environment that does not allow the virus to escape the operating theatre.“To further reduce the healthcare workers’ chances of exposure to the virus inside the room, a fibreglass box is placed over the face of the person undergoing surgery while they are intubated or given anaesthesia. Both these procedures generate aerosols from the respiratory tract, which contain the highest viral load,” Dr Bharti Wadhwa, professor, department of anaesthesiology at Lok Nayak hospital, said. The doctors also use a video-guided laryngoscope to perform the intubation so that they do not have to look down the throat of an infected person.Working with personal protective equipment (PPE) is a challenge as it reduces the doctors’ visibility by 60%.“We have to don a sterile gown and gloves over the PPE kits, which are not sterile and might pass on an infection to the patient. With the layers of material, it is not just hot to work in the OTs, it also reduces our efficiency by 40%,” Dr Wadhwa said.“Within 10 minutes of starting the surgery, the goggles and face shields get foggy because of perspiration. This reduces our vision by 60%. So, the doctors have to depend on their experience and tactile memory to work through the surgery,” Dr Abhishek Singh of the department of anaesthesia at AIIMS said.Currently, only emergent procedures wherein the patient would not survive without surgery for the next 24 hours are performed despite the patient testing positive. Other elective surgeries have been postponed.“For non-emergency procedures, a patient is tested to determine whether (s)he is infected before the surgery is performed,” Dr Singh said.“The emergency surgeries—even wherein the patient is suspected to have the infection—are being performed with adequate protective gear. The most common emergency surgeries are caesarean sections and other obstetric surgeries. Other than that, orthopaedic surgeries are also taking place—people have not stopped breaking their bones and falling. Road traffic accidents have reduced, but are not zero. And, doctors at AIIMS are performing some basic surgeries such as cancer surgeries that cannot wait,” Dr Anjan Trikha, professor of anaesthesiology and critical care at AIIMS, said.Three OTs are running round-the-clock at the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/city-doctors-perform-routine-surgeries-on-covid-patients-with-extreme-care/story-KpS8U70ELtjha1laElfXcO.html
14-05-2020||Chandigarh||Private schools challenge Chandigarh ban on fee collection amid Covid-19 lockdown||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Wednesday put the Chandigarh administration on notice on a plea from private schools challenging the UT’s move to bar schools from taking fee during the Covid-19 lockdown. The petition has been filed by the local Independent Schools’ Association and seven private schools. The city has 77 private schools, who have dragged the UT to high court.“It is hoped that taking into account the urgency, the respondent-authority shall take an appropriate call by the next date of hearing, after hearing the petitioners,” the bench of justice Nirmaljit Kaur said, while posting the matter for further hearing on May 22, and asking the UT to file a reply within one week from Wednesday. The petitioners had told court that the decision restraining schools from collection of fee is ‘without any basis and jurisdiction’ and ‘totally arbitrary’. The institutes are bound to pay and disburse the salary of teachers and other staff, for which they need to generate funds, which is possible only through the fees collected from students, the court was told, adding that it was not the case that the parents did not have a source of income during this lockdown period.BONE OF CONTENTIONThe bone of contention between the UT and schools are two orders from the administration on fee issue. While the March 30 order directs schools to reschedule the last date of collection of fee and funds for the 2020-21 session to a date at least one month after the reopening of schools, another communication under challenge is that of April 7, when the UT asked private schools to not send any message to parents for depositing fee. The schools were warned that any violation would lead to withdrawal of recognition. Following this, schools approached the administration asking it to allow them to collect fee or pay the salaries, a plea treated with cold shoulders by the UT. The schools were asked to provide their balance sheets, which most of them did not agree to. ‘WE HAVE TO PAY SALARIES’Now, the standoff continues and teachers and other staff members of these schools are waiting for their salaries, even for the month of April. “Schools managements are conscious of the difficult times that the world is going through, but the respondents seems to have lost sight of material aspect that all schools have taken steps to conduct online classes,” the court was told. The court was also told that besides salaries, schools have other liabilities, such as taxes, electricity and water bills, and any kind of leeway to parents to not pay the fee would cause hardship to the schools and would have a cascading effect. The schools have also underlined the fact that it was not clear as to when lockdown would end, when schools would reopen and what sort of arrangements they would have to take to follow the norms of social distancing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pvt-schools-challenge-chandigarh-ban-of-fee-collection/story-TPIwxOo0nvxLTPyjxnFKJN.html
14-05-2020||Delhi||Liquor worth Rs 84 crore sold in Delhi during May 4-12||With around 10% of the total number of liquor shops functional in the city currently in the light of lockdown restrictions, Delhi recorded alcohol sales of around Rs 9.33 crore per day between May 4 and May 12, government records show.Data shared by the state excise department show that Delhi recorded sale of liquor worth around Rs 84 crore between May 4 and May 12. The alcohol sales also fetched the goverment around Rs 55 crore as “special corona fee” which has been levied at the rate of 70% of MRP on all categories of liquor since May 5.Delhi has 864 registered liquor shops, of which 172 were allowed to open from May 4, when the nationwide lockdown was extended for two weeks but with scaled down restrictions. With fewer shops opening, massive crowds were witnessed outside liquor shops and there was rampant violation of social distancing norms.All 172 liquor shops, which qualified as standalone units outside markets and malls under guidelines issued by the Union home ministry, are government shops and they sell indian manufactured foreign liquor and country liquor. Imported liquor is still our of bounds for residents is the city.However, only around 80-90 shops have been able to function regularly, with the others still remaining closed for reasons ranging from inadequate stock to shut down for violation of social distancing norms, government officials said.While the city government did not allow private liquor shops to open, they initiated a system of e-coupon for liquor purchase from the government shops and are deliberating on provision for home delivery of liquor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/liquor-worth-rs-84-crore-sold-in-delhi-during-may-4-12/story-6epqRxlRHkOX7ev3wiI6TN.html
14-05-2020||Gurugram||Lockdown 3.0: Around 500 students make their way back home to J&K||Close to 500 students from Jammu and Kashmir were evacuated from Haryana on Wednesday, more than six weeks after a nationwide lockdown was imposed to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The students were ferried from six districts—Gurugram, Faridabad, Ambala, Hisar, Nuh and Yamunanagar—in 23 buses dispatched by the J&K administration. The second phase of evacuation, for labourers and professionals currently stranded in the state, is scheduled for later this week, officials said. “Our priority was to ensure that students can get home to their families. We will continue to make similar arrangements for other migrants,” Dr Inderjot Singh, manager at Jammu & Kashmir House in Chandigarh, and a liaison officer for J&K migrants in Haryana. Earlier, between May 7 and May 9, at least 25 buses left Chandigarh for J&K, carrying about 200 students and 700 workers back home, Singh confirmed. As per official rolls, a total of 499 students left for J&K from Haryana, of which 333 were from Gurugram. A total of 15 buses left the district around 7pm on Wednesday. Similarly, three buses ferried 70 students from Ambala, two buses from Faridabad carried 37 students, while one bus each was dispatched to Hisar, Nuh and Yamunanagar by the Jammu and Kashmir State Road Transport Corporation to bring back 59 students scattered across these districts. The buses arrived in Haryana early Wednesday. “The students were screened for symptoms at camps and government hospitals in their areas starting Tuesday. They will all be screened a second time at Lakhanpur, on the Punjab-J&K border,” Arshad Yousuf, executive director of the Jammu and Kashmir chapter of the International Human Rights Organisation (a non-profit body), which has been working with district authorities to ensure their passage back home. “The students were required to first register on the J&K administration portal for stranded migrants before they could be screened,” Arshad added. In Gurugram, students were screened at Civil Hospital in Sector 10 before being granted medical certificates, allowing them to make the interstate journey back home. None of the students showed any symptoms, a health department official at Civil Hospital confirmed, seeking anonymity. Hindustan Times had reported on May 11 that several students and workers stranded in Gurugram were facing uncertainty over their chances of returning to J&K. Several of the students who HT spoke with were able to return on Wednesday. One of them, Hamidullah Malik, a resident of Kupwara district who has been living in Gurugram’s Sector 18 while preparing for the National Eligibility Test (NET), said, “For weeks after the lockdown we had no idea what would happen. In the last few days, we have been unable to properly speak to our friends and families due to the Internet shutdown in Kashmir. It is a relief to finally be on our way.” Aman Yadav, nodal officer for migrant travel back to J&K, did not respond to requests seeking comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/close-to-500-students-make-their-way-back-home-to-j-k/story-mRnos5a5sHtsYk0eIacEOM.html
14-05-2020||Gurugram||Five new Covid-19 cases in Gurugram, total cases in city reach 166||The Gurugram district health department on Wednesday confirmed five new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday. Till Wednesay, 166 cases were reported from Gurugram. Of them, 99 were undergoing treatment and 67 were discharged.According to chief medical officer, Dr. Jaswant Singh Punia, among the new cases is that of a woman who contracted the disease days after her domestic help tested positive for the virus.“The house help stayed with the family and had tested positive earlier this week. We are still tracing how the house help contracted the coronavirus. But we have taken the samples of the family members. The infected woman, being a high-risk patient (she suffers from hypertensjon), has been admitted to Medeor Hospital in Manesar,” he said.Currently, asymptomatic patients or those with mild symptoms are being admitted to ESIC hospital, sector 9. A family of four from Jyoti Park was shifted to Nuh medical college earlier this week after they had complained of poor amenities at the hospital. Sirhaul, one of the affected zones, has also reported two new cases. “Two persons reported positive from Sirhaul worked at Udyog Vihar. One is an employee at an export factory while other works at a call centre. They both were in contact with a patient who tested positive in Sirhaul as they stayed in the same area,” said Punia. Till now, 15 cases have been reported from Sirhaul village. In Basai, where over four Covid-19 cases have been reported, a fresh case emerged on Wednesday. A man working in a medical equipment factory in Basai was confirmed positive. “He stayed in the same area where he worked and was in contact with the coronavirus cases reported earlier from the area,” said Punia. A woman, who worked as a helper in a sheet-making factory, also tested positive. The woman stayed in Sheetla Colony where no Covid-19 case has been reported earlier. Punia said the team is trying to trace her contacts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/five-new-cases-in-gurugram/story-kghZS40xAwoeS4fXMuxnkJ.html
14-05-2020||Gurugram||Covid-19: With course curriculum in mind, schools shorten summer breaks||Private schools in the city are opting for shorter summer breaks this year, after more than a month of holding online classes for students amid the nationwide lockdown imposed in March to curb the spread of coronavirus.While some schools have already declared vacations for students of junior classes, others will be breaking for the summer in the coming weeks. Schools said that they have reduced the duration of the break by a few days to make up for the loss of physical classes, where learning happens at a faster pace.Amity International School, Sector 43, has announced a month-long vacation starting May 15. The students in primary classes have already been on a break since the last week, and the remaining classes will take a break from Saturday. Compared to its usual summer break schedule, the duration has been reduced by a week this time.Anshu Arora, school principal, said that the break had been reduced by about 10 days since children were anyway holed up inside their homes due to the lockdown. “Children are not going out of their homes. They don’t have many options for indulging in various activities outside. After months of online teaching, however, a break was needed. This will at least keep them in the system of having a break. Moreover, the break will give students a chance to revise whatever has been covered so far,” said Arora.She added that the break would also give teachers a window to prepare for the future. “Without any preparation, teachers got into online classes overnight. This break was much-needed for them and will help everyone get back to classes with a renewed energy,’ said Arora.Students have been given creative hands-on activities as part of the holiday homework to keep them occupied. “Keeping the time in mind and knowing that students will not be able to move outside, we have designed activities that can be done at home,” she said.DAV Public School in Sector 14 has reduced its summer break by two weeks this year, as the school will be going for a three-week break from May 24 till June 14. School principal Aparna Erry said that the break had been reduced to offset the relatively slower pace of online classes. “Earlier, we used to have classes from 7.30am to 2pm. Due to the lockdown, we have online classes from 9am till 1pm. We need to compensate for the time, since the speed of covering the syllabus is slower,” said Erry.She said that the school was not in favour of holding online classes for longer due to the eye strain it could cause and with much left to be covered, a shorter vacation schedule was decided upon. “For students in board classes, there is a significant amount of work that needs to be done. We are trying to ensure that the syllabus is covered without putting too much pressure on students,” said Erry.Amity International School, Sector 46, declared summer vacations for the junior school last week, while senior wing students will be going on a break from Saturday. “Children needed a break. Too much screen time is not healthy for their eyes,” said Arti Chopra, school principal.Among schools that released summer vacation schedules were Lotus Valley International and Kunskapsskolan, which will be closing from the last week of May. The former will be shut from May 30 to July 5, while the latter will shut from May 24 and May 29, for junior and senior classes, respectively.Shiv Nadar School, which closed this week, will be shut till June 15.Administrations of other private schools, meanwhile, are holding deliberations on the dates for the vacation. Officials of Manav Rachna International, Sector 46, said that they are waiting to see if the government issues a directive in this regard, before announcing their schedule.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/with-course-curriculum-in-mind-schools-shorten-summer-breaks/story-WzW1moTCzmT9cJFKosj7sK.html
14-05-2020||Delhi||Firefighters to sanitise equipment after every operation during pandemic: New SOP||Every firefighter’s equipment and fire tenders used in rescue operations during the Covid-19 pandemic will be thoroughly disinfected before being reused, state the Delhi Fire Service’s (DFS) newly framed standard operating procedures (SOP).Senior officers said because firemen need to carry evacuees on their backs or shoulders, with no scope of social distancing, they will have to disinfect shoes, hazmat suit, helmet, equipment as well as themselves, before resuming work, in order to contain the spread of the virus within the force. For this purpose, the DFS has purchased a manual disinfecting machine, one each for all 63 fire stations in Delhi.The DFS has so far not reported any Covid-19 case.The new SOPs were formalised in the first week of May, keeping in mind the onset of summer. Every year, Delhi reports more than 3,000 incidents of fire on an average, a majority of them in May, June and July.Atul Garg, director, DFS, said, “We are expecting fire incidents to go up in summer, like every year, but this time it’s going to be different. Because of the pandemic, our functioning has been affected. In the past, there have been rescue operations where we have had to lift 30 to 50 people from one building or area. In such cases, we cannot waste time worrying about getting close to unknown people who may be infected with Covid-19. Therefore, we framed the new SOP in a meeting.”According to the new plan, every firefighter who exits his fire station will undergo a thorough disinfecting procedure upon return. “His clothes, fire suit, helmets, goggles, equipment, boots and gloves will be sanitised. Even the fire tender used to douse a fire in densely populated areas will be cleaned upon return,” Garg said.Garg said the force is short-staffed. He said though no case has been reported in the force, they are taking all precautions. The firefighters, because they travel together, will wear masks under the helmets. which are a mandatory part of their uniform. The helmets also have a protective visor that will act as a second layer of protection.The director said that to ensure that such additional measures do not waste crucial time, the exercise to sanitise the firemen and fire tenders will be conducted only once a firefighting operation is over.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/firefighters-to-sanitise-equipment-after-every-operation-during-pandemic-new-sop/story-Sxuvv9BjUeacsrJidxjT5I.html
14-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi CM gets over 500,000 suggestions for a post-lockdown Capital||From recommending the odd-even rule for private vehicles, and opening alternate shops on alternate days, to seeking a ban on paan and gutka to curb spitting, residents and professionals sent over five lakh suggestions to the Delhi government over a span of about 29 hours, the chief minister’s office said on Wednesday. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, on Tuesday, had sought suggestions from the public on relaxations that could be allowed in the Capital after May 17, when the third phase of national lockdown is scheduled to end, with a deadline of 5pm on Wednesday. By that time, the chief minister received 5,48,700 suggestions.“The response to the CM’s call for suggestions has been overwhelming. We received over 4.76 lakh WhatsApp messages, nearly 10,700 email, around 39,000 recorded messages on call, and 22,700 responses in a petition at Change.org,” the chief minister’s office said. “The responses have been received under various categories such as industrial and MSME operations, transport, education, and day-to-day activities of the people like commercial and non-commercial activities,” a media advisor to the CM said.The Capital has been in varying degrees of lockdown effectively since the Janta Curfew on March 22.Senior Delhi government officials said the chief minister will hold consultations with experts, doctors and top bureaucrats from across departments on Thursday to draft the final proposal for the national Capital that will be sent to the Prime Minister’s Office. “The proposal will definitely include the Delhi government’s recommendation that red zones in the Capital be either identified on the basis of containment zones or wards. Apart from this, restricted operations of offices, industries and shops will continue. But there are a lot of varied views on whether malls, shopping complexes, markets should be allowed or not. These will be decided on Thursday,” a senior government official said. A second official said that even though the Delhi government will send its own proposal to the PMO like other states, any relaxations after May 17 will depend on guidelines that the Union home ministry issues.“Transport minister Kailash Gahlot held a review meeting on Wednesday to discuss the possibilities of opening public transport if needed. It was observed that decisions such as allowing public transport — and if so, how much of it should be permitted, can be firmed up only once the new set of guidelines on lockdown 4.0 is issued by the MHA. So, even though what the Delhi government wants will be clear by Thursday, an official order from the city administration on the new rules for lockdown 4.0 will come only after the MHA releases its order,” the official saidA number of resident welfare associations (RWAs) demanded that Covid-19 testing in private labs be made free and that the labs be reimbursed from the PM Cares Fund. In one mail, at least 74 RWAs — from Dwarka, Greater Kailash, Asiad Village, Vasant Kunj, Defence Colony, Rajendra Nagar, Mayur Vihar Phase 1, Ashok Vihar, Rohini and Mukherjee Nagar and GTB Nagar, among others — collectively sent their recommendations to the CM.“Odd-Even for cars and two-wheelers with no exemptions should be announced to discourage movement of people and to give equal opportunity of vocation for all. The same should be introduced for taxis and auto-rickshaws as well. Alternate shops may be allowed in designated markets to open on alternate days. Coaching centres being invariably overcrowded should run only online classes. Construction activity in residential areas should not be allowed until the situation stabilises. Pan and gutka should be banned as people indulge in spitting in public spaces. Opening of restaurants, entertainment centres such as cinema halls, tourism, gyms, spas and salons should not be allowed,” read some of the suggestions given by this group. A group of lawyers sent had suggestions to decongest the sub-registrar offices across the Capital. “To prevent overcrowding in sub-registrar offices, public dealing timings (existing 10am to 2pm) can be increased by two hours minimum with only one appointment slot every five minutes (i.e the approximate time required for process of one document) instead of present four appointment slots every eight minutes,” the mail by an advocate, Gaurav Gambhir, read. It also suggested more counters at these offices and a separate counter for the registration of wills for senior citizens.BS Vohra, president, East Delhi RWAs Joint Front, suggested that the government stop the sale of liquor in stores. “Online orders, digital payments, and home delivery mechanisms must be applied here too, else they will not only be contributing to the economy but also to the spread of coronavirus in the city, in a greater way. Please don’t be in a hurry to open anything and everything May 18 onwards. As per noted doctors, the Covid situation is likely to worsen in the coming days. Therefore, Delhi Government must plan for gradual relaxations only, else it will be solely responsible if the situation worsens in the city,” read Vohra’s mail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-cm-gets-over-500-000-suggestions-for-a-post-lockdown-capital/story-mLo8pLIHfGRTrFSCxrVueP.html
14-05-2020||Delhi||DMRC draws up plans for restart||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) is preparing a detailed protocol to ensure social distancing in trains and stations, as well as a plan on cleaning and maintaining once the Metro operations resume.“The protocols for social distancing in our trains and premises are being worked upon,” said Anuj Dayal, executive director, DMRC.In the post-Covid scenario, DMRC officials said, measures have to be taken to keep coaches and stations clean. “DMRC is working out the detailed cleaning and maintenance procedures in view of the pandemic. The exercise will be exhaustive as it involves cleaning and maintenance of 264 stations, over 2,200 coaches and more than 1,100 escalators and 1,000 lifts, apart from other infrastructure,” Dayal saidThe Union and Delhi governments are yet to take a final decision on restarting public transport in the Capital. The DMRC, which had shut its operations on March 21 evening, a day before the Janta Curfew, has been carrying out regular maintenance of its systems. “All systems of the Metro, including the signalling, electrical, rolling stock, tracks, and others, will have to be tested in detail before services are ultimately restarted, to ensure the safety of our commuters,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dmrc-draws-up-plans-for-restart/story-4mxQJu1zZsyatETgvae2lI.html
14-05-2020||Delhi||To open shops or not — city traders divided on future after lockdown||After almost two of months closure, Delhi’s traders appear to be divided on reopening of markets after May 17 -- when the third leg of the nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19 comes to an end.A section of traders want markets to remain shut till the end of May, keeping in mind the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the city. But others say there is an urgent need to revive economic activity in the city, citing loss of business and migrant labourers being forced to return home.A total of 359 new Covid-19 cases were reported in the Capital on Wednesday taking the tally to 7,998.Some associations want the government to opt for the odd-even formula — taking a cue from the road-rationing scheme used by the Delhi government to restrict the movement of vehicles during peak pollution season — in big markets. Others suggest fixed days or duration for each market to open to ensure effective crowd management and social distancing.All these measures were discussed at an online meeting called by the Chamber of Trade and Industry (CTI) on Wednesday. There are nearly one million traders in Delhi and over two million people employed with them, the association said.The Delhi government had till Wednesday — a day after Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal sought suggestions from public regarding relaxation in lockdown norms after May 17— had received over 5.48 lakh responses. Brijesh Goyal, national convener of CTI, said, “A majority of traders’ associations in the Capital want the government to reopen markets. Most associations, especially in big markets, suggested the odd-even formula to be implemented. They all know that they will do very little business for the next 10-15 days, but at least they can inspect the condition of their goods and clean their shops, which have remained shut for almost two months.”Some traders’ associations, such as those in Khan Market, have already prepared a plan to ensure social distancing once the market opens.The Khan Market Traders Association plans to only allow two entry points (front and back), install a sanitisation tunnel, thermal screening, a ban on parking inside for customers, and sanitisers at all shops.Sanjiv Mehra, president of the Khan Market Traders Association, said, “Now that we have to learn to live with it (Covid-19), these measures are needed. Those visiting our market understand the need for social distancing. Apart from screening visitors, only those who have the Aarogya Setu mobile application will be allowed to enter the market. These measures are need of the hour, as businesses have suffered a lot.”But there are some associations — such as the New Delhi Traders’ Association in Connaught Place and Chandni Chowk Sarv Vyapar Mandal — that want to wait for some more time before reopening markets as the number of cases were increasing every day. The two organisations are of the view that the markets should stay shut for another 10-15 days, at least.Sanjay Bhargava, president of Chandni Chowk Sarv Vyapar Mandal, said, “Our market is close to a containment area and with the number of Covid-19 cases on the rise, it better we wait for some more time.”Moreover, just opening markets will be of no use if public transport (buses and metro) is not operational, said Atul Bhargava, president of New Delhi Traders Association.“The operational cost is very high. There is no point in opening the shops if there are no customers. The public transport system has to be operational first so that customers and our staff can come without any inconvenience,” said Bhargava.Those in the wholesale business say that it is not economically viable to sustain their businesses and pay their employees. With migrant labourers going back to their home states, members of the Bhartiya Udyog Vyapar Mandal in Delhi said it will become “impossible to restart businesses if the labour is gone”.“Our businesses are dependent on labourers for loading, unloading and transportation. If people leave the city, it will become impossible for us to restart. While industrial units are operational, those who provide raw material to them are not allowed to operate. It is important to start all economic activities,” said Pradeep Gupta, general secretary of Bhartiya Udyog Vyapar Mandal .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/to-open-shops-or-not-city-traders-divided-on-future-after-lockdown/story-iRO5TvVuba5DseeXGkGiJK.html
14-05-2020||Delhi||Three more special trains ferry 3,500 to Bihar||Three more special trains ferrying around 3,500 stranded migrant workers left the Capital on Wednesday for Bihar’s Bhagalpur, Darbhanga and Barauni districts from the Old Delhi Railway Station.Five trains have left Delhi so far—one for Madhya Pradesh and four for Bihar—with around 6,000 stranded migrant workers as part of a special arrangement between the states under guidelines issued by the union home ministry on April 29.All 6,000 migrants who have so far left Delhi had taken shelter in government-run camps set up after the implementation of the nationwide lockdown on March 25, a senior government official said. There are at least 10,000 more stranded migrants from Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Odisha, West Bengal and Jharkhand in Delhi.Government officials said a large number of migrants, however, had chosen to stay back after witnessing the scaling down of lockdown norms and the partial revival of business and commercial activities in several sectors, including industries and construction, since last week.Over 300 state-run buses ferrying stranded migrants queued up outside the Old Delhi Railway Station on Wednesday afternoon. Ready with luggage, home-cooked food packed in layers of cloth, bottles of water and packets of dry snacks, scores of migrant workers waited inside designated circles marked for each of them to maintain distance at the entry to the station. Despite economic activities gradually opening up in different sectors, several of them said that they may return to Delhi after their workplaces reopen, but they needed to go home for now. Most said they wanted a break from the uncertain circumstances in the city. Rajendra Kumar, 36, said he had come to Delhi in early March to work at a cloth factory in Okhla, but could not wait to return home, where his old parents were waiting for them. While his wife wiped their two children’s faces with a wet cloth to try and save them from the heat, Kumar said he did not know when his factory would reopen. “The last two months have been really difficult to survive. My parents too don’t have much to survive on. We have a patch of land at home. I will farm it until things return to normal,” Kumar, who is from Munger, said. Vinod Kumar (49) and his son, labourers at a bag-making factory in Paharganj, said returning to their village would be a relief. “At least back in the village, there is no fear of people getting infected. We need a break from the prison-like life here. There is no option but to come back. But for some days, we will breathe without fear,” Kumar said. A group of labourers from Sadar Bazar, one of the biggest wholesale markets in Delhi, said their employer told them that he cannot pay their salaries and will call them back once the market reopens. “The owner told us he won’t be able to pay us our salaries for April. I don’t know how soon we will be able to go back. I will do some work at home to survive for a while,” said Sanjay Kumar Singh, 39, who worked at a toy factory here. Besides migrant workers, the trains also ferried a few students and out-of-work employees of private firms, who were stuck in rented accommodations. Delhi labour minister Gopal Rai said all migrants who left in the trains were screened. “They were provided with adequate food and water. The Delhi government paid for their tickets,” Rai said. Under the scheme meant for movement of stranded migrants, the central government bears 85% of the ticket cost and the remaining 15% is to be borne by either the state of origin or destination state.FIRST ARRIVALS IN SEVEN WEEKSOn Wednesday, Delhi recorded arrivals after nearly seven weeks of train operations being suspended by the Indian Railways in the light of the spread of Covid-19. On Wednesday morning, Delhi recorded arrivals from Patna, Ahmedabad, Mumbai and Howrah, a senior government official said. For the convenience of passengers, the city government and the police arranged buses connecting the New Delhi Railway Station with district headquarters in all 11 revenue districts in the city, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/three-more-special-trains-ferry-3-500-to-bihar/story-uJzBEzlcACIMeLKAAalB5M.html
14-05-2020||Delhi||Folk song performances, plays entertain and educate residents of New Delhi’s shelter homes||Belting out songs on the glories of freedom fighters involved in the 1857 struggle in Harbola style — a Bundelkhandi folk tradition — Hardayal Kushwaha and his team of artistes entertained 150 residents of a shelter home in Mahipalpur on a Sunday afternoon. With children looking on in awe, women clapping and some men humming along, the group performed Bundelkhandi and Rajasthani folk songs, as a part of the New Delhi district administration’s Manoratna Campaign, aimed at entertaining and educating residents of shelter homes.Many of the residents lost their livelihoods during the lockdown from March-end to contain Covid-19, because of which it is important to ensure their physical and mental well-being, said officials associated with the initiative.“Folk music and songs not only entertain people but also keep the listener mentally happy, which makes it more relevant in these hard times of the coronavirus pandemic. Other than Bundelkhandi, we also perform folk songs of other regions, including Rajasthani, Bhojpuri, Kumaoni and Garwali scores. We have also improvised folk songs to spread awareness about the Covid-19 among people living in shelter homes and quarantine centres,” said Kushwaha, a member of a 15-member professional folk artist group named Bargad.Kushwaha said that it was in the last week of April that the New Delhi district administration sought their help in “spreading awareness and entertaining people” living in shelter homes, quarantine facilities and residential neighbourhoods. “We are not charging for our performances as it is for the public welfare. It is our contribution for the greater good of the society in these testing times,” Kushwaha said. His troupe had performed across the country, including the capital, in the past.Kushwaha said that the group tells people to fight the pandemic with the same spirit and unity exhibited by the freedom fighters.Under the campaign, cultural activities such as street play on Covid-19, yoga sessions and motivational marches by volunteers are organised. Officials of the district administration have also composed a ‘Corona song’ that they sing every day to raise awareness.Tanvi Garg, district magistrate, New Delhi, said Covid-19 has created a multitude of issues and, disrupted the physical and mental well-being of the citizens, prompting them to start the initiative. “The initiative aims at spreading positivity and happiness in this hour of crisis through numerous activities, ranging from organising yoga sessions to cultural activities in shelter homes on a regular basis. The response has been encouraging, especially to the musical performances of a variety of folk songs, in which the residents actively participated and enjoyed the performances while maintaining social distance. We are looking forward to having similar activities until all residents are safely sent back to their home towns,” Garg said.The New Delhi district has seven shelter homes, where around 850 migrants who could not return to their home towns due to nationwide lockdown, are living. These shelter homes are located in Mahipalpur, RK Puram, Kendriya Vidhyalaya Naraina, Delhi Cantonment and Gole Market, besides a quarantine centre in Pusa Institute, which has 40 residents.At present, there 352 Covid-19 positive cases and four containment zones — Pillanji Village, Israel Camp Rangpuri, EA Block and Budh Vihar in Inderpuri — in the district.Nitin Shakya, the district’s coronavirus nodal officer, who is also supervising the Manoratna Campaign, said that besides folk songs, yoga sessions and physical training sessions are also being held at the shelter homes.“Yoga not only gives physical strength, but also helps in clearing the mind. Currently, we are imparting yoga sessions to inmates with the help of civil defence volunteers and NGOs. We will soon rope in professional yoga trainers to conduct exercises on a regular basis and in a better manner. We have also prepared a Covid-19 song, which is sung by the civil servants of New Delhi DM office at all the shelter homes and quarantine facility every day to make people aware of the virus and safeguard them,” Shakya said.Shakya said that besides entertaining residents, they are also informing them of the ‘dos and dont’s’ during the pandemic through such exercises. Plays, about the virus and precautions to be taken to control its spread, are being performed every day, said officials, adding that people are told about the right way to wash hands, importance of maintain social distancing, use of masks and gloves, and to cover their mouth with a cloth while coughing or sneezing.Residents of the shelter homes welcomed the move, saying the programmes help them maintain a good spirit as well as provide a better understanding of Covid-19.“Music makes us feel good. Through such activities, we remain occupied for a good part of the day and don’t feel that we have been left alone or stranded hundreds of kilometres away from homes. Not only this, but we are also told about coronavirus disease, its symptoms and preventions through folk music, street plays and general counselling,” Satyendra Tiwari, a resident of the Mahipalpur shelter home said. He used to work at a restaurant in the city but could not return his home town of Mughalsarai in Uttar Pradesh, due to lockdown. Mukesh Kumar, a resident of the Gole Market shelter home, also a migrant from UP, said the initiatives help them pass the time and remain “mentally fit.”“If anyone is confined to a building for a long time, the person will start becoming mentally distressed. But activities like folk songs, music, yoga and plays on coronavirus help us in being positive and happy. It is a good time pass. Man laga rahta hai (We remain mentally occupied),” Kumar said.Nimesh Desai, the director of the Institute of Human Behaviour and Allied Science (IHBAS), said that such initiatives are necessary for the mental and physical well-being of occupants of shelter homes, amid the lockdown. IHBAS has been working closely with the government to assess the mental fitness of people living in shelter homes during the lockdown.“These promotive programmes help in boosting the morale of occupants of shelter homes. Such traditional methods (folk songs and music) will register better results, in terms of keeping them mentally fit and happy. Such efforts would not only cheer them up but also support them in maintaining their resilience,” Desai said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/folk-song-performances-plays-entertain-and-educate-residents-of-new-delhi-s-shelter-homes/story-yt6irD4mG5DXguYSfs40xJ.html
14-05-2020||Delhi||Plea in Delhi HC seeks resumption of public transport||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday sought the responses of the central and Delhi governments on a plea seeking resumption of the public transport services in the city. Most public transport has been suspended since the lockdown on March 25 although some services ran to ferry only those in essential services. During the third phase of the lockdown that began on May 4 and is scheduled to end on May 17, the central government had allowed considerable relaxations. This included allowing government and private offices but with only a third of its workforce. However, much of the public transport system remained suspended forcing people to take to private vehicles and creating traffic snarls in many parts of the city.A bench of Justice Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and Justice Sangita Dhingra Sehgal issued notices to the Ministry of Home Affairs and the Delhi government on the plea by law student Shreesh Chadha who also sought directions to frame guidelines for ensuring the safety and hygiene of the passengers while commuting.The plea was filed through advocate Prashant Vaxish. It sought that the public transport be resumed while mandating social distancing norms.Vaxish pointed out that data from the Supreme Court-appointed pollution monitoring committee Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority [EPCA], about 2.5 million people use the Delhi Transport Corporation buses every day. Similarly, the Delhi Metro records a ridership of 1.5 million daily. The counsel used these numbers to argue that the public heavily depended on public transport, in the absence of which they are left in the lurch.He highlighted that people were suffering losses for not being able to attend their offices due to this.The counsels for both the Centre and the Delhi government accepted the notice following which the court posted the matter for May 20.Meanwhile, an impleadment application was also filed in the matter by advocate Karan Mathur, who had filed a writ stating that the caretakers for the disabled persons are not being able to come because the transport is not working.“My petition was disposed of as the Centre listed out the steps it had taken. However, since one of the grievances regarding the public transport was not resolved, I moved an impleadment in the matter to be heard as the party. The court has accepted my request,” Mathur said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/plea-in-delhi-hc-seeks-resumption-of-public-transport/story-K5qYKNeiT6R5FpgjenioiO.html
14-05-2020||Chandigarh||Lockdown blues Families of 65,000 auto drivers in Amritsar struggling to make ends meet||Iqbal Singh (53), who has been driving auto-rickshaw in Amritsar city for the last three decades, suddenly found himself in a tight spot when curfew came in force in Punjab on March 23, with all public transport going off road.Not having earned a single penny in the last 52 days and no alternate source of earning, he and his wife Jasbir Kaur (51) are now finding it difficult to arrange their daily meals. To add to their woes, the rent and electricity bills of the house they live in Ghanupur Kale area of the city are piling up.“I earned Rs 600-700 daily, of which I would pay Rs 300 as rent of the auto-rickshaw,” said Iqbal.The couple’s daughter was married off four years ago while their son migrated to Saudi Arabia in 2017 to work there as a labourer. “Our son is stuck there and has not sent a single rupee to us in the last three years,” he said.Iqbal is not the only one whose life got turned upside down since the lockdown was announced to check the spread of the coronavirus. Like him, there are nearly 65,000 auto-rickshaw drivers in Amritsar district who are struggling to eke out a living. Lakhs of tourists visit the city daily, a key source of income for the auto-rickshaw drivers.Ram Sharanpal, president, Amritsar School Vans and Auto-rickshaw Welfare Association, says around 2.5 lakh people are dependent on the business. “I am getting calls daily as some of them are on the brink of starvation,” he said.Some auto-rickshaw drivers have started selling vegetables and fruits while others are working as labourers in the grain markets.“Our livelihoods have been destroyed by the pandemic. We do not see any hope. We will not see any tourist here for at least one year,” says Joginder Singh (52), a rickshaw driver who lives in Putlighar locality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/families-of-65-000-auto-drivers-in-amritsar-struggling-to-make-ends-meet/story-W0pw784JAvkk8sIIEAsFyN.html
14-05-2020||Pune||Pune records seven new Covid-19 deaths, total death toll at 163||The city, on Wednesday, reported seven deaths related to Covid-19 (coronavirus), caused by the Sars-Cov-2 virus, taking the virus-related death toll in the city to 163.In addition, 87 fresh Covid cases were reported within 24 hours, taking the total count of positive cases in Pune district to 2,824.The number of patients in critical care rose from 107 on Tuesday, to 115 on Wednesday.Also 168 persons were discharged, after being declared cured of the virus; this puts the discharged count at 1,377.Within five days, the number of critical patients has gone up from 70, on May 9, to 115 on May 13.Of the seven deaths reported on Wednesday, four are patients of Sassoon hospital.These include, a 65-year-old female Yerawada resident, admitted on May 10 and declared dead on May 12 at 8.30pm. The patient also suffered from type 2 diabetes with infective diarrhoea and lactic acidosis.The second death was of a 42-year-old male from Tadiwala road, admitted on May 6, and declared dead on May 12.The third fatality is a 70-year-old female from Ramtekdi, admitted on May 12, who died on the same day. The fourth is a 48-year-old male from Hadapsar who was admitted on May 2, and expired on May 13.Two deaths were reported from Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital - a 54-year-old male from Ganj peth, reported dead on May 12, who also suffered from diabetes and hypertension; and a 69-year-old female from Yerwada, who was admitted on May 9 and declared dead on May 13, also a known case of hypothyroidism.The seventh reported death is that of a 57-year-old female from Gultekdi, reported from Sahyadri hospital (Hadapsar). The person was admitted on May 3 and declared dead on May 12. The cause of death is reported to be decompensated chronic liver disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-records-seven-covid-deaths/story-6D1jVKU5BRZMAYzW1lVs5K.html
14-05-2020||Pune||Canine lovers in Pune come together to feed stray dogs||Canine lovers in the city believe that the relaxation of lockdown norms has enabled residents to ensure stray dogs in their areas do not go hungry.Anisha Rao, from NIBM road, said, “It is still tough to feed stray dogs as some areas are containment zones and we are not permitted to visit these areas. We are hopeful that the situation eases further and the lockdown is lifted.”Aletha Tavares, an animal rights activist, said that as soon as the curfew was announced many of the volunteers were unsure what to do. “Volunteers feed as many as five to 40 dogs a day. Some feed kibble (dry food), some cook rice and chicken and rice and milk. The first few days were tough as volunteers were uncertain about timings, but when the animal welfare board came out with basic rules about feeding, it helped. In the beginning there was dearth of dry food. Stray dogs usually depend on leftovers from eateries for food, but they were shut. Volunteers rallied and took up the challenge to go that extra mile to feed dogs,” she said.Tavares said that NGOs like Karma foundation and ResQ were also delivering food packets to volunteers. “Recipes too were shared during this time to help volunteers feed dogs who were not used to dry food. Although, in general, people have been kind to animals, there are a few who don’t allow water containers to be kept for animals given the scorching heat. Despite these odds, volunteers have braved all this with the kindness and support of police,” Tavares said.Michele Bhise, also an animal rights activist, said, “A number of feeders are there to feed the dogs, which is a good sign,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coming-together-to-feed-stray-dogs/story-qt0Cx3XPmtsBjs1LpIdYPP.html
14-05-2020||Pune||PMC discovers 200 new beds in Pune’s Naidu hospital godown||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has stumbled upon 200 new beds lying unused inside a godown at the Naidu hospital. The discovery has come at a time when the civic body and state government are battling a shortage of health infrastructure in the fight against Covid-19 (coronavirus).According to PMC commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad, the beds were apparently purchased by the civic body in 2012 and were lying unused due to billing issues.They godown is located at the rear end of Naidu hospital.“The beds are in good condition and ready to be used. We will dispatch them to some of the 74 facilities we have across the city, where there is a shortage of beds,” said Gaikwad.According to civic officials, the beds were discovered when a PMC health team inspected Naidu hospital to explore the possibility of further expanding its isolation facility by 50 beds.“When our team opened the godown, they found 200 beds, still wrapped up,” said Gaikwad. According to another civic official who asked not to be named, the approximate current value of each bed is Rs 25,000. Lockdown 4.0, an opening up for industriesAfter state industry minister Subhash Desai’s meeting with the Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA), there are more relaxations on the cards for private firms in Pune district. Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar held a meeting with an MCCIA delegation on Wednesday and assured that labour and supply chain issue will be addressed. “Depending on the nature of lockdown 4.0 starting on May 18, we are in the process of finalising a new plan for industries,” said Mhaisekar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmc-discovers-200-new-beds-in-naidu-hospital-godown-to-be-dispatched-as-needed-in-city/story-rvQ7B9tMkqPs5WirJJH4nM.html
14-05-2020||Pune||Muslim youth in Pune feed strays in the times of lockdown||A group of Muslim youth attached to the Mazhar food bank in Kondhwa are feeding stray cattle in the area daily.Mazhar Shaikh, founder of the food bank, said, “The cattle normally survive on leftovers from restaurants and small eateries. However, the eateries are shut due to the lockdown. We feed them fodder and water daily. The stray cattle arrive at the food bank at regular intervals and we give them food.”“We will continue to feed the cattle even after the lockdown is lifted. They must not be left unattended. A portion of the donation that we collect for serving citizens is also used to buy fodder for the cattle,” Shaikh said.Hussain Khan, a member of the group, said, “We not only feed the cattle, but also ensure they remain healthy. As it is the month of Ramzan, every member has been assigned the task of feeding cattle, in the morning and evening. Besides cows, other creatures like pigeons and stray dogs are also taken care of. We are also helping senior citizens get medicines.”The food bank also runs a community kitchen in the name of Hazrat Khwaja Garib Nawaz, wherein they are distributing at least 30kg of grains to needy families.Ration kits are also given to 220 families. The other members of the group are Ejaz Shaikh, Mubin Khan, Sarfaraz, Badrudin, Krishna Kamble, Farid Pathan and Irfan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/feeding-strays-in-the-times-of-lockdown/story-iN2mNyhX0bbCNbTVY1knWM.html
14-05-2020||Pune||Tobacco, related goods worth Rs 65, 657 seized in 4 separate instances in Pune||The Pune police crime branch took action against illegal tobacco sellers in four separate cases in the city on Tuesday, recording a total seizure of tobacco, related goods worth Rs 65,657. In Vishrantwadi area, a man was booked for selling cigarettes and tobacco from his furniture shop. The crime branch officials recovered tobacco products worth Rs 14,400 from his shop called Shri Raj furniture on Airport Road. The owner, Sudhir Rajkumar Agarwal was booked in a case under Section 188, 269, 270 of the Indian penal code (IPC) and Section 51(b) of the National Disaster Management Act, 2005.Two shop owners of essential commodities - one in Sinhagad road and one in Wanowrie - were also booked for selling tobacco and related goods. A seizure worth Rs 8,512 was made of tobacco-related goods from Bhawarlal Mishrilal Jaath’s shop in the Sinhagad road area, a seizure of Rs 13,045 was made from Liyakat Ali Shaukat Mulla’s shop.Similar cases were registered against them at Sinhagad road and Wanowrie police stations respectively.In another case, a man was found selling tobacco and products on his two-wheeler. Cigarettes of various brands worth Rs 29,700 were seized from the two-wheeler.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tobacco-related-goods-worth-rs-65-657-seized-in-4-separate-instances/story-tM2Hf0KGL8YPu01tREH7CN.html
14-05-2020||Pune||Pune woman duped of Rs 74,672 by an impostor on Facebook||A 55-year-old woman from Kalyaninagar was duped of Rs 74,672 by an impostor who allegedly made a fake Facebook profile in the name of the complainant’s colleague and asked her to deposit money in a bank account.The fraudster messaged the complainant through Facebook that she had won a lottery. However, the accused also told the complainant that she had to pay money to be able to access the lottery. She was provided with a bank account number where she was asked to deposit Rs 74,672.The complainant deposited the money and soon realized that she was duped and lodged a complaint with Yerawada police. The incident occurred on April 27, 2020.A case under sections 419 (punishment for cheating by personation), 420 (punishment of cheating), and 34 (common intention) of Indian penal code along with section 66(c)(d) of the information technology act was registered at Yerawada police station. Police sub-inspector Amol Waghmare of Yerawada police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-duped-of-rs-74-672-by-an-impostor-on-facebook/story-rLYio4uP7zZLFuTFlPO2gJ.html
14-05-2020||Pune||With new discharge protocol, PMC rethinks over creating more isolation centres in Pune||Pune: With the new discharge protocol of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) coming into effect nationally, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is reviewing its decision to expand the isolation facilities it had proposed earlier.Be it the upcoming 10,000-bed capacity at Balewadi sports complex or the Wipro office at Hinjewadi that was proposed to be turned into a capacity of 450 beds, the civic body has decided to review it as the new protocol seeks early discharge of covid positive person. As per the new protocol, a person showing mild and moderate symptoms needs to be discharged in 10 days without a second test. This, as PMC commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad stated earlier and reported by Hindustan Times, will make more beds available to admit new patients. Despite doubling rate reducing the PMC’s decision on not increasing isolation facility may create problems if there is a sudden spurt in cases, warn experts. “We are revisiting the decision to create more new quarantine or isolation centres like the facility at Balewadi sports complex or the recent Wipro IT office at Hinjewadi. With the next ICMR protocols, we have about 500 beds immediately available for new patients so we will review the situation and take a call accordingly. It is a mammoth task to organise for 10,000 beds, food facilities and toiletries. Logistics is another added work. We also need money to do all this. So, for now, we will wait and take a call accordingly,” Gaikwad said. A civic official said the isolation centre planned at Balewadi sports complex would have been the largest centre in the city.The proposed Wipro facility at Hinjewadi was to be developed by the IT firm which will provide beds and oxygen supply units for 12 out of the 450 beds, only after the PMC expresses the need. “Work at the office campus is yet to start since the PMC is reviewing its need for the facility,” said Gaikwad. As per the state report from the public health department, there are also 1,863 beds in the dedicated covid hospital (DCH), 1,751 isolation beds at dedicated covid health centre (DCHC) and 6,067 beds at the dedicated covid care centre (DCCC).As per the report, Pune reports a 13.8% utilisation of DCH ICU beds, 5.5% utilisation of DCHC hospital ICU beds. In terms of utilisation of ventilators, Pune has maximum utilisation in the state out of the 14 districts in the dedicated hospitals. As of May 9, 45 ventilators were occupied out of 93 ventilators available for Covid-19 which is 48.4% while in the case of DCHC ventilators, out of 72, 15 are occupied which is 20.8% ventilators. Despite a less utilisation of available beds in the city, PMC is hoping to get more beds by discharging current patients following the new protocol by ICMR. Doctors in the city say that even if they would want to hold back the patients there is no use as National Institute of Virology (NIV) refuses to test the swab in case of a follow-up case. Dr Vijay Natarajan, chief executive officer (CEO) of Symbiosis University Hospital which is a nodal Covid-19 facility, said, “We have to discharge the patients as per the protocol and even after 14th day, NIV is not retesting their sample. We have had patients who tested positive even on the 15 or sometimes 20th day too. Any infected person who is positive irrespective of the viral load in his body is more likely to infect more people. A single person can infect around 4-5 people and could multiply cases. Hence, if the civic body starts discharging patients to save a single bed, it may cause a spurt in the number of cases and could fill four to five more beds in future. No matter what but complete self-quarantine is next to impossible in a typical middle-class family in India.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-new-icmr-protocol-pmc-rethinks-over-creating-more-isolation-centres/story-2bij128f95XYrSlKFHGshP.html
14-05-2020||Pune||Notices served to labour contractors in Pune||The officials of Pune police Zone-3 have served warning notices to labour contractors in their jurisdiction to keep them from abandoning labourers, according to Pournima Gaikwad, deputy commissioner of police, Zone-3.Zone-3 covers Dattawadi, Kothrud, Sinhgad road, Warje, Uttamnagar and Alankar police stations“Notices have been served to all sites under the zone. We have kept a track of labour applications. We have received around 15,000 applications from labourers along with a medical certificate,” said DCP Gaikwad.The notices were meant to warn contractors against abandoning labourers who have worked for them, said DCP Gaikwad.The detection branch officials of police stations have been appointed to keep in touch with contractors and labourers.“The contractors know the people whom they employ. We have served notices to around 20-25 of them. To ensure that they do not abandon them or run away, officials of the detection branch which is most active on the ground are appointed. In the beginning, they were made to visit areas like janata vasahat where labourers are known to stay and keep a track of their number,” said senior inspector Devidas Ghevare of Dattawadi police station.“Wherever there are labour camps, we served notices to some 12 labour contractors who were responsible for them to arrange for basic necessities for them. We did it when the central government had announced their decision asking states to arrange for migrant workers’ movement back home,” said senior inspector Nankumar Shelker of Sinhgad road police station.The labour contractors are the source providing labourers to construction sites and a link between builders and labourers. The Pune police had issued an order to begin construction work if the labourers are available or can be made available in-situ.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/notices-served-to-labour-contractors-in-pune/story-2x1XVw7uPV33LzcMDniIbL.html
14-05-2020||Pune||From agony to hope: Homebound migrant workers on foot find solace at makeshift shelters in Pune district||Soar feet, body pain, no food or money and dealing with the needs of other family members has proved to be a challenging situation for migrant labourers who have been on the road during the lockdown trying to get back to their hometowns on foot.However, for workers walking through Pune district, makeshift relief camps at wedding halls, community centres and roadside eateries has provided the much-needed relief to those who have been the worst hit by the lockdown.After having walked around 30 kilometres, Rasia Saad, a mother of four, including a six-month-old child, arrived at relief camp in Chandoli on Pune-Nashik road, she was more than surprised. Her experience was far different than what she had thought.The makeshift camp at a marriage hall in Chandoli near Khed is among 39 such centres that the district administration has set up with the help of local gram panchayats. These camps have so far offered temporary shelter to at least 10,000 migrant workers walking on the highways to their hometowns before they are dispatched to nearby the bus depot or railway station to take them to their destination. “We were walking down the road when people here took us to this camp where we are getting food, milk for children and bus service is also being arranged to get us back to our state,” said Saad, a labourer from Chhattisgarh engaged at a local industrial estate, who came along with group of 10 people. Saad had undertaken this journey back home on foot after the lockdown was extended, when a local NGO brought her and the children to this camp. Most of these relief camps have been set up at roadside hotels and wedding halls or community centres on highways leading to Pune. “In all these 39 camps, facilities such as water, toilets, food, basic medical care, and check-up for flu-like symptoms are being offered,” said Sambhaji Langore, project director, district rural development scheme. The camps, according to district collector Naval Kishore Ram, have been set up under the district contingency fund and money will be paid to gram panchayats for erecting these camps. “So far, we have given food and other things to over 4,000 people. We have also made arrangements of buses till the Pune railway station from where they can board trains to their destinations,” said Mayur Ugle, development officer, Chandoli. Most of the migrants who are offered brief shelter at these camps are from Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Uttar Pradesh. These migrants were working mostly in industries and at construction sites, which stopped functioning during the lockdown, rendering them jobless. “We have now made arrangement of buses from our camp to the Pune railway station where a train has been arranged for MP. In these efforts, we are getting help from local youths and NGOs,” said Ugle. To most workers, the camps are offering masks and soaps to maintain cleanliness. “Before subjecting us to medical screening, people at this camp offered us soap and masks,” said Lala Bajpai, a migrant from MP, who had taken halt at another camp set up at Sitabai Thite school in Shirur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/from-agony-to-hope-homebound-migrant-workers-on-foot-find-solace-at-makeshift-shelters-in-pune-district/story-6rr0b18rDP63rIqOB1JSRP.html
14-05-2020||Pune||25-year-old is part of Covid-19 house-to-house survey team of RSS volunteers||Atharva Pathak, the 25-year-old entrepreneur engaged in product branding, looks anything but that when he’s completely zipped-up in a personal protection equipment (PPE) body suit.Pathak is required to put this on when he visits a containment zone for a house-to-house survey of residents with symptoms of Covid-19 (coronavirus).So far, Pathak has visited the Meenatai Thackeray slum in Maharshinagar area and the Taljai slum where he participated in the house-to-house survey for 18 hours at a stretch.He goes with a group of volunteers and is part of a large contingent of about 500 activists of the RSS (Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh) who are assisting Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) with the survey work. Pathak has the support of his wife and family members despite the health concerns involved in visiting the containment zone areas.“I have been to the Meenatai Thackeray slum in Maharshinagar area and the Taljai slum. We have carried out door-to-door screenings and have also given medicines prescribed by the doctors’ team that goes along with us. Many young women have also participated in the cause and are staying with us at the Garware College quarantine centre,” he said.Pathak and the group of volunteers were first given a briefing by PMC health team and trained on how to wear the PPE kit. After completing a three-day duty, they are required to take a break and spend the next three days in isolation at the Garware College quarantine centre. They are tested on the seventh day for Covid-19 and allowed to go home if the test is negative.Many doctors are in quarantine with him. “Although the work has its risks, we feel we are participating in a noble cause,” he said.Cardiologist Dr Rajendra Patil and Ayurvedic physician Dr Maya Golikere said they were part of the Covid-19 screening team at the Tadiwala road slum where 450 people were screened and 10 people suspected of being infected with the Covid-19 disease sent for testing. “People in red zone areas are frightened and are themselves coming forward for screening,” said Patil.Tukaram Naik, who is heading the Jankalyan Samiti which is providing volunteers to PMC for house-to-house screening, said that although the civic body is providing mobile clinics in red zone areas in Pune, it had been facing manpower shortage. “Additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agarwal appealed for assistance in the screening work and that’s how we organised volunteers for this work,” he said.Agarwal said, “Apart from the government machinery, many other organisations and corporates have been helping the civic body in the fight against Covid-19. We received mobile ambulances from a private organisation. RSS volunteers are working with mobile clinics for screening. Many small and big organisations have come forward and joined hands with the civic body and are trying to help in their capacity.”Distribution of food packets and ration kits across MaharashtraOn another front, the RSS Jankalyan Samiti said that as of May 10 it had distributed 1.32 lakh ration kits and 61 lakh food packets to needy families across Maharashtra. This was besides carrying out 22,747 health and sanitation-related works and blood donation drives.RSS Jankalyan Samiti Pune head Tukaram Naik said volunteers were working with government organisations to help the needy. They are support by other organisations as well, such as Mumbai’s Dabbawalas (tiffin carriers) and Pune’s ISKCON (International society for Krishna consciousness) who were providing food packets, he said.Food was provided to truck drivers and cleaners stranded on highways, migrant labourers, senior citizens and poor people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/25-year-old-is-part-of-covid-19-house-to-house-survey-team-of-rss-volunteers/story-K96jgRx5tdxxBKaF837v1M.html
14-05-2020||Chandigarh||HT Salutes: Haven’t taken a single day off since lockdown, says nodal officer Gaurav Gaur||Panjab University (PU) assistant professor Gaurav Gaur, 36, has constantly been on the go ever since he volunteered to be the nodal officer for Sectors 30 and 27.It was on March 26 that the Chandigarh administration gave Gaur the charge of Sector 30. Since then Gaur hasn’t taken a single day off. In fact, he also volunteered to be the nodal officer for Sector 27.“Our team has been working without break since the lockdown was imposed. It is hardly time to keep track of our calendars and watches. This is the time to serve society,” Gaur said.Nowadays, from 7am to 7.30pm, one can find Guar facilitating essential services in the two sectors. His day begins with feeding stray dogs in Sector 25 and ends with distributing essentials among the needy.Gaur’s task wasn’t without difficulties. “When I was given charge of Sector 30, it was an affected pocket and anxiety was running high among residents. Now, things have settled.”Guar, who has been a social worker for decades, has been particularly focused on ensuring the wellbeing of the elderly. Guar says, “We called all senior citizens in the area to make sure that they were not facing any problem during the lockdown.”Gaur’s car is stuffed with an assortment of dog feed, biscuits, sanitary napkins, ration, and face masks, which he distributes among the needy.He also accompanyies buses supplying fruits and vegetables and taking mobile ATM vans to resident’s doorsteps.“We get calls from the different areas of the city and have provided help to almost all people who have approached us. We also made sure that the transgender community wasn’t overlooked,” he said.Gaur is a part of a number of welfare projects such as door-to-door distribution of sanitary napkins in Mohali, looking after migrant labourers on the PU campus and feeding cows at the cow shelter in Sector 25.Gaur, along with few other PU teachers, have formed a network, which is providing essential services such as ration, milk, fruits and vegetables to construction workers, elderly and those staying alone on the university campus.Notably, in 2011, Gaur was awarded the United Nations Volunteers, International Confederation of NGOs (UNV-iCongo) Karmaveer Chakra Awardfor raising awareness about HIV-AIDS. In 2009, Guar was honoured by Queen Elizabeth II at the Buckingham Palace.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ht-salutes-haven-t-taken-a-single-day-off-since-lockdown-says-nodal-officer-gaurav-gaur/story-Mrl50g4GZKXpW7tZdVIFAL.html
