16-05-2020||Mumbai||In Mumbai wetland, a spectacle in pink||First, thousands of lesser flamingos, likely from Gujarat, coloured the Talawe wetlands near NRI Complex in Navi Mumbai pink during the lockdown, their numbers bolstered by the sheer lack of human activity.Now, the water in part of the wetland itself has turned pink, probably due to an explosive blooming of red algae that thrives in saline water, especially as the summer picks up and the wetland loses water. The deep pink water, located towards the south-eastern end of the wetland, was spotted by HT photojournalist Pratik Chorge on Thursday. The pink water was not there till late last week. The bloom has been identified as rare and first-of-its-kind occurence for Mumbai Metropolitan Region by Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) that plans to take samples of the water for study. However, a local resident, Seema Tania from NRI Complex, Seawoods, said she spotted the pink wash across a much larger area at the same creek in 2016.“Almost 500-600m patch of the creek turned bright pink and we thought chemicals had been dumped in the creek,” she said.While researchers were unsure of what may have caused it, BNHS and independent microbiologists presume that the colour is from microscopic algae. “Owing to high salinity in the area, it looks like an algal bloom. Our researchers have never witnessed something like this along Mumbai’s creeks,” said Deepak Apte, director, BNHS. “Around the world, such a phenomena has been observed regularly with red algae but it has to be investigated how it has appeared along the Mumbai creek.” Flamingos are known to feed on this algae, crustaceans, shrimp, and aquatic plants, which gives them the pink colour, said Apte. The birds also feed on zooplankton which feeds on the algae. Dr P Sathiyaselvam, assistant director (wetland conservation), BNHS said, “This is clearly an algal bloom. We have observed the same at the northern portion of Chilika Lake (in Odisha) during early winter months over the years, and also towards the northern end of wetlands in Thoothukudi in Tamil Nadu. This is temporary and the water clears out within 48 to 72 hours for small patches.”Another BNHS official said certain microscopic algae and bacteria produce carotenoids, specifically beta-Carotene (a provitamin giving a red-orange pigment that’s found in high numbers within the algae), which is consumed by flamingos, giving them the bright pinkish-red feathers as they mature from juveniles to adults. “If this is a natural phenomenon, vigorous growth of algae or bacteria having this beta-Carotene gives this type of characteristic colouration to the water. It is also related to increased evaporation, salinity, and the current hot and humid weather conditions,” said Rahul Khot, assistant director (in-charge of the flamingo monitoring program). “We do not know the impact on birds due to this change in water colour.”A microbiologist said there are a group of bacteria called halobacteria that grows in extremely high saline environment, which give a bright pink or reddish appearance. “There is scientific literature that states that this carotenoid red pigment is secreted by halobacteria. This could be mostly coming from the algae present in the creek,” said Dr Rohini Kelkar, director of laboratories and head of microbiology, Tata Memorial Hospital. “Bacteria produce a whole range of pigments and reactions...The caretonoid pigment probably attract the birds that are sensing the nutrient value in the water. However, these are still assumptions, and can only be verified through a detailed sampling study.”Ornithologist, naturalist and writes Sunjoy Monga said a similar discolouration of water with a pink hue was witnessed at a flamingo habitat in Porbandar in May, 2007. “This happened at the edges of the creek cramped with flamingos with high salinity displaying a pinkish maroon wash to it. While we took photographs, we had no idea what caused this.” Tania explained that in 2016 when residents had shared images with Spanish researchers, they confirmed similar events at flamingo habitats in Spain. “We were told the algae and bacteria result in such changes when temperatures increase. However, such incidents were not observed in Navi Mumbai over the past two years,” she said. “From the available details of the presence of this phenomenon in Mumbai, there is no other possible explanation other than the presence of red algae at this flamingo feeding ground,” said Dr P Pramod, principal scientist, Sálim Ali Centre for Ornithology and Natural History.A similar example of what has been observed in Navi Mumbai was recently witnessed across a massive stretch at the Edgars Creek in Melbourne, Australia, that started on May 10 and intensified subsequently. The source of the pink water is being investigated, the Epoch Times reported. Other examples of changing water colour to pink across a much larger area has been observed at Cameron Falls in Waterton Lakes National Park, Canada and the Dead Sea, a salt lake between Israel and Jordan, to name a few.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/in-mumbai-wetland-a-spectacle-in-pink/story-GvaVadtSV84vftcToN7zQP.html
16-05-2020||Lucknow||Imam of Eidgah seeks relaxation for namaz on last Friday, Eid||Imam of Eidgah in Ayodhya, Samsul Qamar on Saturday sought permission to offer prayer in mosques on the last Friday of Ramzan and on the festive occasion of Eid.Imam Qamar handed over a memorandum addressed to the Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Yogi Adityanath, to city magistrate and circle officer (city) on Saturday seeking permission for a collective offering of namaz in mosques on the last Friday of the ongoing Ramzan, on May 22.In the memorandum, Imam has pointed out that all shops in Ayodhya were open and even liquor shops were open.So, Muslims must be allowed to offer namaz in mosques on the last Friday of Ramzan and on the occasion of Eid, which is likely to be held on May 24 or 25, said Qamar. It may be pointed out that after the nationwide lockdown from March 25 all mosques and temples in Ayodhya are closed. Even on the nine-day long Navratra (March 25- April 2), all the temples in Ayodhya were closed and the Navratri Mela on last day of Navratra (April 2) was also cancelled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/imam-of-eidgah-seeks-relaxation-for-namaz-on-last-friday-eid/story-70gGEjPQcTDu3qWIXmBWGK.html
16-05-2020||Lucknow||Trying to escape corona, they fell victim to killer roads in UP||Uttar Pradesh is back in news for road accidents after a hiatus of one and a half months, with poor migrant workers in transit meeting with road accidents one after the other.Since public transport is still not available despite some travel relaxations during the Covid-19 lockdown in place since March 25, poor labourers stranded in various states have embarked upon a ‘foot march’ or taking whatever travel means—truck, tractor-trolley, bicycle, motorcycle and even handcart that comes their way to reach home.Authorities believe over-speeding facilitated by empty highways, desperation to reach destination early and fatigue of drivers are the primary reasons for such road mishaps.“Apparently, over-speeding and fatigue resulting into sleepiness are the reasons for a few unfortunate road accidents that have happened recently, including the one in Unnao on Saturday,” transport commissioner, Dheeraj Sabhu said.He said he had directed all the regional transport officers (RTOs) to deploy all the six interceptors on the highways fixing each interceptor’s duty for 16 hours a day in place of 6 hour duty in normal times. “We have asked them to ensure that any vehicle found over-speeding is intercepted and challaned,” Sahu said, adding, “Traffic police and highway/expressway authorities have their own interceptors.”A retired transport department official said migrants were forced to take unsafe travel modes like trucks etc because governments were not providing proper transportation to them.“Now, on the one hand governments are not able to provide a safe transport to these migrants, on the other hand truckers etc that are helping the poor workers reach their home are being threatened with action,” he said. This, he said would be a double whammy for the labourers. Despite all the tall claims and efforts, road accidents continue to be an epidemic in UP, killing more than 20,000 people every year, putting the state on the top of the national chart. “As many as 22,655 people died and another 28,932 were injured in 43572 cases of road accidents in UP in 2019,” sources said. “So, scores of migrants who somehow escaped the lethal coronavirus in the states they were stranded in, were not spared by killer roads in UP,” they pointed out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/trying-to-escape-corona-they-fell-victim-to-killer-roads-in-up/story-R3W1jiBdIkMwaP553nnvqI.html
16-05-2020||Chandigarh||11 discharged in Chandigarh in highest single-day recoveries||Eleven persons suffering from coronavirus disease (Covid-19) were cured and discharged from the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) on Saturday, the largest single-day surge of recovered patients in Chandigarh.In more good news, no new Covid-19 case was reported for the third consecutive day in the city where the total case count remains 191, of which 51 have been cured, leaving 137 active cases. Of the 11 patients discharged on Saturday, 10 — eight males, aged between 17-50 years, and two females, aged 21 and 27 — were from Bapu Dham Colony, and one — a 41-year-old man — is from Sector 30.“PGIMER is striving hard to bring more cheer and hope by consistently sharing the success stories of those getting cured after battling hard at the Covid hospital on campus,” a press statement said.MILESTONE FOR FRONTLINE WARRIORSPGIMER director Dr Jagat Ram said, “Most of these people have made incredible recoveries. But it also marks a milestone for our frontline warriors, a reiteration of faith that their incessant efforts can help their patients win the battle of Covid-19. With this increased pace of recoveries, we hope to continue to send off other patients to their homes soon.”Dr GD Puri, head, department of anaesthesia and intensive care, said, “Treating Covid patients along with comorbid conditions — resulting in compromised immunity owing to other ailments— is a huge challenge. But it is the team work that has resulted in such good outcome.”Though discharged, the cured persons will be home quarantined for 14 days as per the standard protocol. NO NEW CASE FOR A WEEK IN MOHALI Meanwhile, no new case of Covid-19 has been reported from Mohali since May 8.Confirming this, Mohali deputy commissioner (DC) Girish Dayalan said, “The total number of recovered people has risen to 95 (out of 105), with 35 patients getting discharged from the Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur on late Friday evening.” He said the efforts of the administration had started showing results. The DC added that the quarantine period of 3,328 people was over, while 1,253 were still under quarantine. The number of active cases remains seven, while the district has reported three deaths so far.THREE CURED IN PANCHKULAA day after two persons tested positive for Covid-19 in Panchkula, no new case was reported on Saturday. The number of active positive cases came down to three as three more patients were discharged. The total number of positive cases now stands at 25, of which 22 have been discharged. Those discharged on Saturday included a 27-year-old woman, who worked as a cook at the Sector 5 police station, a 59-year-old retired army man from Raipur Rani, and a man from Majri, who also has comorbidities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/11-discharged-in-chandigarh-in-highest-single-day-recoveries/story-Bpvf1AjmIUNPmtFxjOCQcP.html
16-05-2020||Lucknow||First phase of census work deferred in UP||The first phase of Census of India, 2021—house listing and housing census and updation of national population register (NPR)—has been postponed in Uttar Pradesh in view of Covid-19 pandemic.UP census directorate had planned house listing and housing census between May 16 and June 30.Principal secretary, general administration, Jitendra Kumar said, in a letter to all the states on March 25, the ministry of home affairs (MHA) ordered strict implementation of the Covid guidelines. The MHA has directed all the states and union territories to postpone the first phase of Census 2021- updation of NPR until further order. In view of the MHA order the first phase of Census of India, 2021 has been postponed till further order, Kumar said. For containment of corona, the states and union territories have announced lockdown. The ministry of health and family welfare had issued advisories for various precautionary measures including social distancing.Director, census work UP, Narendra Shankar Pandey had on March 21 directed district magistrates of all 75 districts to suspend the training programme of the field trainers to be deputed for the census–2021 work till further orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/first-phase-of-census-work-deferred-in-up/story-Hao8fuYNs47Msb4CLU3zQK.html
16-05-2020||Mumbai||Consider private institutions’ suggestions on medical facilities for non-Covid patients: HC to state, BMC||The Bombay high court (HC) has directed the Maharashtra government and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to consider the suggestions of petitioners and private institutions towards ensuring adequate medical facilities for the treatment of patients suffering from ailments other than Covid-19. The court has, however, said that the acceptance of suggestions would depend on whether they are realistic and within medical protocols.The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice AA Sayed on Friday had been apprised by three petitioners – Mehrwan Farshed, Dayanand Stalin and Mutahhar Khan – about the absence of requisite medical facilities for non-Covid-19 patients.The petitioners, through their respective public interest litigations (PILs), had pointed out that many non-Covid-19 patients had been unnecessarily suffering and even dying owing to lack of proper treatment of refusal of treatment altogether in government as well as private hospitals. One of the petitioners also pointed out that the families of elderly coronavirus patients had been forced to wait throughout the day for routine medical examination.The petitioners had prayed that in light of these submissions, HC should initiate the necessary action against hospitals and institutions that refuse treatment to patients suffering from other ailments. The petitioners also sought directions for the provision of adequate ambulances to ferry all patients and to convert state-run and private buses into ambulances if there was a shortage.Senior counsel Anil Sakhare, appearing for the BMC, vehemently opposed the petitioners’ allegations. He submitted that sufficient arrangements had been in place to look after the needs of non-Covid-19 patients.After hearing the submissions through video conferencing, the bench observed, “Having regard to the havoc wreaked by Covid-19 and in the absence of any therapeutic cure of the disease, every possible option ought to be explored so that the suffering of the people at large can be minimised to the extent possible.”With regards to the suggestions of the petitioners and private institutions, the bench said, “If indeed what the petitioners and the private institutions suggest are of any help or assistance to mankind, we see no reason as to why the state and the corporation may not consider the same in its true perspective.”The bench then directed the petitioners and private institutions to compile a set of their suggestions by Sunday and to forward it to the state and corporation for consideration upon due application of mind.“We make it clear that the suggestions shall be realistic so that they can be implemented and it shall also be ensured that the same are consistent with the extant medical protocol,” the court observed and directed the authorities to file a report indicating steps proposed to be taken based on suggestions and posted the hearing of the PILs on May 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/consider-private-institutions-suggestions-on-medical-facilities-for-non-covid-patients-hc-to-state-bmc/story-JXi3lACE1GBMT1L3QrZyHM.html
16-05-2020||Mumbai||FDA writes to pharma body, seeks price cap on PPE, N95 masks||After receiving several complaints of over-pricing of safety gear, the Maharashtra Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) has written to the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA) seeking a price cap on Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) and N95 masks. Since the outbreak of Covid-19 in the city, the demand for safety kits has surged by almost 400%. Many local traders have turned the pandemic situation into an opportunity to make quick money. The issue was two-part — the authenticity of the masks and the inflated prices they were being sold at.“In the interest of public health and to ensure sufficient availability at a reasonable rate, there is an urgent need to fix the ceiling prices of N95 masks, its equivalent masks and PPE kits on top priority to overcome the outbreak of Covid-19 in the country,” read the letter sent by Arun Unhale, commissioner of FDA, Maharashtra. Earlier, on the request of the department, the Ministry of Consumer Affairs fixed the ceiling price of two and three-ply marks and hand sanitizers, which helped curb hoarding of the items to a great extent.“Several traders are hoarding safety gear to increase the price. Then they sell those at double rates. The masks that earlier cost Rs 100 are now being sold at Rs 1,000. Also, there is no guarantee on the quality of products,” said Abhay Pandey, national president, All Food and Drug Licence Holder Foundation. Due to lack of knowledge about PPE, the traders are selling it off at a higher price without much regulation. Donors also end up buying without inquiries due to time constraints. “Private hospitals are being accused of charging exorbitant rates from patients. Prices of PPE have shot up two to three times. The government also doesn’t pay us for the safety gear. Due to the demand, we end up buying those at a higher rate,” said a doctor from a private hospital in Mumbai. Dr Sanjay Mukherjee, secretary of Medical Education and Drugs Department (MEDD) said that they have also written to NPPA making the same demand. “In response to the letter, we have also written to NPPA and waiting for their response,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fda-writes-to-pharma-body-seeks-price-cap-on-ppe-n95-masks/story-3YxNMNl8OUjp92pelQ5AiO.html
16-05-2020||Mumbai||Civic chief allows diamond exports up to 100 packages a day||In a boost to diamond exports, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Wednesday allowed exports of up to 100 packages of diamonds every day. Every day a lottery system determines which trader will be allowed to export diamonds. Since manufacturing of diamonds has not begun in view of lockdown, merchants are sending stored diamonds according to order. Merchants are now awaiting permission to reopen their offices for assorting staff to get to work.Bharat Shah, legal advisor of Mumbai Diamond Merchants Association, said, “Diamond merchants have a lot of pending orders from the USA or Dubai. Since lockdown, everything has been closed for the past one-and-a-half months and business was at a standstill. Now the government has allowed up to 100 exports per day due to shortage of staff and carriers.”Shah said since manufacturing of diamonds has not yet started and manufacturing units in Mumbai and Surat, which source diamonds to merchants, are shut, all merchants are relying on stored items. “Since not everyone likes to store diamonds in bulk, not a lot of merchants are participating in this. But it is a good start. Now we are waiting for our offices to open so that workers can start assorting diamonds and packaging them.” Presently, only pre-packaged goods that were previously readied for export are being shipped.Shah said there are four to five agents at the customs’ point in the city where a lottery is drawn every day. The agents inform respective traders if their name has come up in the lottery, following which the selected trader sends packages for export.Municipal commissioner IS Chahal on Wednesday ordered opening up of Mumbai’s diamond market, and said, “I opened the entire diamond market of Mumbai. In a diamond market there is very limited and specialised labour and there are ₹5,000-crore exports waiting to happen, opening up the market can be beneficial. But none of this can happen at the cost of spreading Covid-19. “||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/civic-chief-allows-diamond-exports-up-to-100-packages-a-day/story-QUOhL7oQ7PPV28vjvG2nZJ.html
16-05-2020||Lucknow||UP: Cong seeks permission to run 1,000 buses for migrants||The Congress has requested the UP government for permission to run 1,000 buses to carry home migrant workers, who are arriving in the state in large numbers.In a letter requesting chief minister Yogi Adityanath, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said the party would bear the cost of running these buses from the Ghaziabad and Noida borders with the national capital.“Congress, in its responsibility towards hapless migrant labourers, wants to run 500 buses from the Ghazipur border and another 500 from the Noida border. All India Congress Committee will bear the cost of running these buses. We want permission to run 1,000 buses following all norms for protection against Covid-19 pandemic to help the migrant labourers,” said Priyanka Gandhi in her letter dated May 16 that a party delegation delivered to the chief minister’s office here on Saturday.Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee Ajay Kumar Lallu and Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Aradhana Mishra led the delegation that also included senior leaders Naseemuddin Sidiqui, RK Chaudhary and Shyam Kishore Shukla. “We delivered the letter to the chief minister’s office as the issue needs immediate attention and seeking an appointment with chief minister may have taken time,” said Mishra, while expressing concern over the plight of migrant labourers.In her letter, Priyanka Gandhi further said, “Lakhs of migrant labourers are returning from different corners of the country. No arrangement has been made for the safe return of these migrant labourers walking down to their homes. So far, 65 migrant labourers have died in different road accidents. This number is more than those killed by Covid-19 pandemic in the state.”Calling migrant labourers nation-builders, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said, “The nation builders could not be left in such a condition and AICC is committed to help them.”Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has been sending letters to the chief minister and making some suggestions for fighting Covid-19..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-cong-seeks-permission-to-run-1-000-buses-for-migrants/story-VBEnxw4K3yJZSlwooSkHaO.html
16-05-2020||City||Close contacts of Covid patients can opt for home quarantine; six more cases emerge in Ghaziabad||In what may come as a breather for close contacts of Covid-19 patients, the UP government has issued a notification allowing them to remain in home quarantine if they fulfil certain conditions. The health department officials said those having large houses and more than one toilet may be allowed to remain in home quarantine, provided they follow the laid down norms and give an undertaking.“The notification is for close contacts of Covid-19 positive cases. The government has issued notification and it will be applicable to all persons admitted previously or to be admitted in the future. We have about 276 persons presently in facility quarantine but they can be allowed to remain in home quarantine, provided they give us an undertaking,” Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer (CMO), Ghaziabad, said.“Such persons will have to mandatorily install the Aarogya Setu app. The close contacts are immediate family members or people who were in direct contact with positive patients,” he said.According to the new norms, a person at the government-run quarantine facility can choose to remain in home quarantine for 14 days, provided they have large houses with more than one toilet.“The notification says that such persons will stay in a separate room with an attached toilet. The person will remain in isolation in their rooms and must not come in contact with any family member, especially a senior citizens or child or pregnant woman. So far, we were not allowing such facility to close contacts of Covid-19 patients,” the CMO said.According to Amit Mohan Prasad, UP’s principal secretary (health), the district officials will have to check the house and availability of separate toilets.“In another move, we have also notified fines which can be levied on people spitting in public places or moving in public places without masks. The first and second violation will attract a penalty of ₹100 while a subsequent violation may attract a fine of ₹500,” Prasad said.The officials said lockdown violations in the first instance will attract a penalty of ₹100-500; and ₹500-1,000 in the second instance and ₹1,000 for all subsequent violations.“Only one person is allowed on two-wheeler. If two persons are found, it will attract a penalty of ₹250 in the first instance, ₹500 in the second instance and ₹1,000 in the third instance. However, any person who doesn’t know driving and need to go to office, may take permission from a magistrate to have him/her driven there,” Prasad added.In Ghaziabad, six more Covid-19 cases emerged on Saturday taking the tally to 178.“One case is from Kaushambi and two from Sahibabad besides three from Khoda. We are taking up special drives in Khoda to contain the spread of infection. So far we have about 30 cases from Khoda,” Gupta said.Khoda’s executive officer KK Bhadana said most of the cases are from 10 of 73 residential pockets in Khoda and the infection has not spread beyond these pockets.Khoda was sealed on May 10 and entry/exit at 50 out of 52 points was stopped by officials.“We are taking up extensive sanitization in all areas and also in the 10 residential pockets where cases were reported. Apart from that, we have also sealed and barricaded 46 bigger and smaller internal lanes in Khoda. People are staying indoors and we have made arrangement to get essential items to all,” he said.The health department officials said that nine epicentre areas were desealed on Saturday after no case was reported from these areas over the last 14 to 28 days.The areas are located in parts of Sanjay Nagar, Vaishali sector 5 and 3, Pratap Vihar, Modinagar, Shalimar Garden Extension 1, Sikri Nagar and Vasundhara Sector 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/close-contacts-of-covid-patients-can-opt-for-home-quarantine-six-more-cases-emerge-in-ghaziabad/story-ZPg6z9dGPNrucWBT9mpS8L.html
16-05-2020||City||Greater Noida begins work at bridge project to engage daily wage earners||GREATER NOIDA: The Greater Noida Industrial Development Authority (GNIDA) has resumed construction work at a bridge across the Hindon River, between Noida and Greater Noida, to engage daily wage workers who have been left jobless due to the shutting down of all work sites due to nationwide lockdown, imposed to contain the spread of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic.The bridge is scheduled to come up between Greater Noida’s 60 metre-wide road in Knowledge Park-III, which is an educational hub, and Noida’s sectors 146/147. The budget of the construction of the bridge is Rs 65 crore. According to officials, who asked not to be named, it will have eight lanes having a width of 29 metres. The work on this project was started in January 2019 but the authority had to suspend construction on March 25, when the central government announced a nationwide lockdown, said the officials cited above. “We have resumed construction work at the site so that migrant workers can be engaged and they can earn a livelihood. We have directed that social distancing norms at the site be adhered to strictly so that workers can carry on with work while staying safe from coronavirus spread,” said Narendra Bhooshan, chief executive officer of the Greater Noida authority. The work was started after disinfecting the site, equipment, machines and surface, said the officials cited earlier.The authority, meanwhile, said that the bridge will ease traffic congestion on the city’s busiest traffic intersection - Pari Chowk - once it is ready. It added that upon completion, the bridge will aid commuters travelling between Noida and Greater Noida and give them an option of a different route than Pari Chowk, as they can use the LG traffic intersection road to reach Knowledge Park-III and then reach Noida’s Sector 147 via this bridge. It will cut travel time of commuters travelling from Greater Noida’s KP-III and Noida’s sectors 147, 148 and 149, among other areas, the authority said.This bridge was supposed to be completed in two-three years’ from the day the work was started. Officials said they will strive to make the deadline as though the work progress suffered, they will increase the pace of work to make the deadline.Besides this, the authority has started resurfacing of city roads to engage migrant daily wage labourers. The Greater Noida authority will also start a helpline for migrant workers, who can seek work through this facility, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/greater-noida-begins-work-at-bridge-project-to-engage-daily-wage-earners/story-zo2kGW0CE82RT2PMrXtY6J.html
16-05-2020||Noida||Noida cop suspended for hitting women waiting in line for ration||A sub-inspector (SI) of the Noida police was suspended on Saturday for allegedly hitting women with a stick who were waiting in line for ration in Sector 19 on Thursday, after a video of the incident was circulated online.The SI was later identified as Saurabh Sharma, the in-charge of the Sector 19 police post. According to the Twitter handle of the Noida police commissionerate, the incident’s authenticity has been established and the SI has been suspended. A departmental inquiry has also been initiated.According to police officials, the incident took place near a government ration distribution point in Sector 19. In the video, women are seen standing in a queue, awaiting their turn to get ration, when a police personnel is seen hitting some of them with a stick.The officer in question pushed a woman away from a queue while he assaulted at least two others, as seen in the video, hitting them several times on their legs.The video was recorded by women standing nearby, who mention that female police personnel are missing from the spot while at least one other police official looks on, making no effort to stop his colleague.The case is being looked into by assistant commissioner of police, Zone 1, Arun Kumar Singh. He refused to comment on the ongoing investigation and the suspension order.However, police officials said that the Station House Officer of the Sector 20 police station has been asked to present relevant evidence of the incident.“The incident took place on Thursday. The SI lost his temper while managing the spot, where, despite multiple requests, people refused to follow rules of social distancing. If any other staff is found involved, action will be taken against them as well,” said a police official, on the condition of anonymity.On May 9, a police constable with the Lucknow commissionerate, currently posted in Gautam Budh Nagar, was also suspended for allegedly hitting two men exiting a containment zone in Sector 22 to collect water.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-cop-suspended-for-hitting-women-waiting-in-line-for-ration/story-pxl8i9mpC9qQn7saWLZf4J.html
16-05-2020||City||Realtors seek extra one year to complete housing projects amid lockdown||NOIDA: Real estate developers on Saturday said that the Uttar Pradesh Real Estate Regulatory Authority (UP-Rera) should given them an additional one year’s time to finish and deliver the housing units to homebuyers. In the wake of the Covid-19 lockdown, the regulator has given the developers the extra time of six months to complete realty projects. The realtors raised the demand during a webinar conducted by various real estate regulatory authorities from across the country. The webinar, conducted to celebrate the three years of the Rera Act, was also attended by Hardeep Singh Puri, Union minister for housing and urban affairs, Rera officials said. The Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016 had come into force on May 1, 2017.  The developers put forth their demands before the Rera panel and the Union minister so that the real estate sector can tide over the Covid-19 crisis smoothly. “We have demanded that the government or Rera must give us additional one year’s time to finish and deliver the projects which have been affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. As many migrant labourers have left the cities, resuming construction has become a challenging task. Also, the government must provide housing loan on low interest rate to create demand in the sector,” said RK Arora, UP president for National Real Estate Development Council (NAREDCO), a developers’ groupThe Rera officials said that in the past three years they have been successful in winning over the homebuyers’ trust and also developers have faith in the regulator.“Homebuyers have trust in the authority as they are getting their issues resolved in a time-bound manner. In the past three years, this authority has been able to win over the trust of both developers and homebuyers,” said Balvinder Kumar, member of UP-Rera.The officials said that the biggest achievement of the authority is that the developers cannot misuse the funds collected from homebuyers.“Now, we have escrow account facility for new realty projects. The funds in an escrow account is only used for a particular project. This transparency and monitoring of funds has helped us win buyers’ faith. And this is helping the projects get completed as per schedule. However, if Rera gets powers to issue directions to authorities such as Noida authority or Ghaziabad development authority, among other government bodies to enforce our orders, then it will help the realty sector in resolving long standing issues in a time-bound manner,” said Kumar.Union minister Puri assured developers that the government is looking into issues cropped up after nationwide lockdown, the Rera officials said.Many issues were discussed in webinar, including last mile funding to stuck projects, home loan at a rate of 6% and zero period for lockdown period, among others, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/realtors-seek-extra-one-year-to-complete-housing-projects-amid-lockdown/story-3uWp7rC0BSeqGKWqnOblQJ.html
16-05-2020||City||Two deaths, 18 fresh cases in Punjab||Punjab on Saturday reported two fresh deaths due to coronavirus. Ludhiana civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said two positive patients of Gurdaspur district, Pyara Singh (84) and Balwinder Singh (82), died on Saturday at CMCH, Ludhiana. With this the state so far has witnessed 34 Covid-19 deaths.Eighteen more persons, including three, who returned from Takht Hazur Sahib in Maharashtra’s Nanded, tested positive for Covid-19 in the state on Saturday, taking the state’s tally to 2,023.In Moga, two Nanded-returnees tested positive for the novel coronavirus, taking the district count to 60. One of the positive persons is a resident of Ghaloti village in Kot Ise Khan, while the other is a resident of Moga.Civil surgeon Dr Andesh Kang said both the patients had been admitted to the isolation ward of the civil hospital. “The patients were already in a quarantine centre and are asymptomatic,” Dr Kang said.In Faridkot, four persons including a 40-year-old truck driver, who had returned from Jammu, tested positive for Covid-19, taking the district tally to 56.Civil surgeon Dr Rajinder Kumar said among infected persons is a truck driver, who returned to his village from Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) on May 12. “One is Nanded-returnee while the other two are labourers who returned from other states,’ he said. “As per the protocol, samples of the truck driver were collected on the same day, which came out to be positive. The patients have been admitted to the isolation wards of Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital in Faridkot. The Nanded returnee and labourers were already kept in a quarantine facility. However, we are tracing the contacts of the truck driver, while his family members were home quarantined,” he said.5 NEW CASES IN KAPURTHALA Five people, including four who returned from Dubai tested positive for coronavirus in Kapurthala district on Saturday. They are in the age group of 25 to 50 years. Civil surgeon Dr Jasmit Kaur Bawa said that the Dubai-returned are kept in an isolated ward of a private college. The district has so far 30 cases, including two deaths. Two people have been cured of the virus.3 TEST POSITIVE IN JALANDHAR Three fresh cases of novel coronavirus were reported in Jalandhar on Saturday. With this, the district has reported 211 positive cases so far of which 139 have recovered. Six persons have succumbed to the virus in the district to date. The new patients include 24-years-old man of Greater Kailash area in Jalandhar, a 45-year-old man of Ishar Colony and 52-year-old woman of Bhogpur. Health officials said a total of 5,670 samples of suspected patients have been collected of which 5,013 tested negative while results 269 samples are still awaited.LUDHIANA COUNT REACHES 148 Two fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported in Ludhiana taking the district’s count to 148. Among the fresh cases is a 19-year-old employee of a tyre-manufacturing unit in the Focal Point area. He is a resident of Deep colony in Kanganwal area. With this, 11 employees of Hindustan Tyres have tested positive to date. The other patient is a resident of Basant Vihar at Noorwala road. The patient was undergoing treatment at Mohan Dai Oswal Cancer hospital when his sample was taken by the hospital.ONE MORE CASE IN AMRITSAR A 36-year-old man, who returned from Mumbai a few days ago, tested positive for Covid-19 in Amritsar on Saturday. He complained of fever and cold during home quarantine. He is now admitted in isolation ward of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH). Health department has also taken samples of his contacts and their reports will come soon”, said Civil Surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-deaths-18-fresh-cases-in-punjab/story-wgMp3jYXK05oUMvA7onChI.html
16-05-2020||City||Gzb: Migrant workers who missed first train asked to wait till another arrangement||Ghaziabad: Migrant workers in Ghaziabad who have booked tickets online for the ‘Shramik Special’ trains to go to their home states or districts are facing a variety of issues. A number of workers who were to board the first train to Bihar on Friday, came yet again on Saturday at the Ghanta Ghar Ramlila Ground, where screening of passengers and boarding passes are getting issued.Ram Babu, a migrant worker from Madhepura in Bihar, was to board a train home on Friday, for which he had been issued a boarding pass the same day. His train departed with 1,420 passengers onboard on Friday night.As he was unable to get on the train, he came to the Ground again on Saturday, hoping to catch another train, which was scheduled for departure from the Ghaziabad junction at 7pm, but that endeavour, too, failed.“I somehow got a ticket booked online for train travel to my hometown. I procured the boarding pass on Friday but could not board the train as there was a heavy rush. My mother passed away a week ago in my hometown and I need to go home urgently. I went there on Saturday again but officials told me that the second train is not going to any place near to my home town,” said Babu, who worked as a daily wager at Narela in Delhi.Girdhari, another migrant worker who arrived from Haryana and had booked a train seat for Friday, came yet again on Saturday hoping to board the second train leaving for Bihar, being unable to board the previous day’s train.“After our passes were checked and our medical screening was done, we were told that the train is full and we will have to wait till the next train on the same route is announced,” he said.Likewise, Sita Devi, a domestic helper who stays at Bhovapur near Kaushambi and is from Chappra in Bihar, missed her train on Friday. She came with her two minor daughters and a son in the hope that officials will allow them seats in the train being run Saturday.“There was a lot of barricading by the police in Bhovapur and when we tried to move out, the cops drove us away. So we could not get to Ghanta Ghar. On Saturday, we walked all the way from Kaushambi but the officials told us that the other train will not go to our home district in Bihar,” she said.The train which left Saturday was scheduled to go through the three cities of Khagaria, Araria and Purnia in Bihar. The first train on Friday was scheduled for the three cities of Muzaffarpur, Chappra and Hajipur in Bihar.Ghonghar, another migrant, from Saharsa in Bihar, stayed at a shelter home after he could not board Friday train, while Mukesh Kumar and his two friends, who were to board Saturday’s train, were found by an HT team at Sukh Sagar Farm House in the Kavi Nagar Industrial Area around 3pm.“We were picked up by the police and brought to the shelter home. Till 3pm, we could not move out but later, when we showed them the SMS (of the train bookings), they allowed us to leave. It will take us more than one hour to reach the screening area and we hope that we catch our train after completion of formalities,” he added while leaving the shelter home with his friends.According to officials deputed to supervise passenger operations and screening process at the Ghanta Ghar Ramlila Ground, Friday’s train was full, with 1,420 passengers on board, while Saturday’s train will have a capacity of only 1,200 passengers.“Those who missed their journey should be submitting their boarding passes to us along with their mobile numbers. When the next train to their destination is announced, our teams will give them a call on priority. Till then, we have made arrangements for such persons for their stay at our shelter homes,” said Sanjay Kumar, the Ghaziabad Development Authority’s officer on special duty, who is supervising operations at Ramlila Grounds.“We cannot allow such passengers to board Saturday’s train as it has different routes and may drop them far away from their hometowns and they will face commuting issues again,” he added.Ghaziabad senior superintendent of police Kalanidhi Naithani, on the other hand, said that he has already issued instructions to personnel that anyone showing their train booking SMS or boarding passes should not be stopped.“Such passengers must be allowed to leave homes and reach Ghanta Ghar. We will issue instructions again in case any passengers have faced any such problem,” he added.Uttar Pradesh officials said so far, 449 trains have arrived in the state from different states.“Seventy two more trains will come to UP on Saturday. We have given permissions for another set of 286 trains which will arrive with migrant workers. Within the next 2-3 days, when these trains arrive, we will have about 9.5 lakh migrant workers who would have arrived in UP,” said Awanish Awasthi, UP’s additional chief secretary (home).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gzb-migrant-workers-who-missed-first-train-asked-to-wait-till-another-arrangement/story-AoW8Ojpv29Bdzugp5VLK3I.html
16-05-2020||Mumbai||11.3K stranded Indians return in Phase 1 of Vande Bharat mission||Over 11,300 Indians stranded abroad have been flown back to the country till Friday, in the first phase of the government’s Vande Bharat mission. Repatriation flights by the national, carrier Air India (AI) and its subsidiary, Air India Express operated as many as 58 inbound and 61 outbound flights till May 15, transporting over 14,800 stranded passengers to and from the country.“One flight each operated on Friday which marked the completion of phase-I of the Vande Bharat mission. Until Thursday, 11,204 Indians were brought back on 57 flights, and 60 flights had flown stranded passengers to their countries,” an aviation ministry official said.While Air India brought back 7,959 stranded Indians on 39 flights, 3,385 passengers were flown back on 19 flights by Air India Express.The Airports Authority of India (AAI), which is coordinating with various authorities on the mission, appreciated the efforts of the airport managements, doctors and paramedics of Airport Health Organisation (APHO) and local civic and transport department of the states for successfully completing the first phase of the mission.The second phase began on Saturday. A total of 149 flights, including feeder flights, will be operated to bring back the stranded Indians from 40 countries, unlike the first phase that had covered only 12 countries. Of these 149 flights, 13 will come from the United States (US), 11 from the United Arab Emirates (UAE), 10 from Canada, nine each from Saudi Arabia and the UK, eight each from Malaysia and Oman, and seven each from Kazakhstan and Australia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/11-3k-stranded-indians-return-in-phase-1-of-vande-bharat-mission/story-o84VqRqP4UzEaXBTti3J3I.html
16-05-2020||Noida||Noida: NMRC makes Aarogya Setu app compulsory for travellers||The Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) has made temperature screening and face masks and the Aarogya Setu mobile application compulsory for passengers, in a set of guidelines issued for metro travel. The NMRC, which runs the Aqua Line metro connected Noida and Greater Noida, said it is awaiting the government’s nod to resume its services.According to officials, commuters will have to wear face masks and they will be screened by thermal sensors before entry to the station. The limiting temperature will be 37.7 degrees Centigrade (about 99.86 Fahrenheit). The metro passengers also must have the “Aarogya Setu” app in their mobile phones. Without these prerequisites, no one would be allowed to travel, the guidelines say.The NMRC on Saturday issued a detailed guideline on how the metro service will function after curbs are lifted – a national lockdown in place to control the spread of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease. However, the Corporation did not announce the date for resuming metro services.Ritu Maheshwari, managing director, NMRC, said initially for a few days, a 15-minute frequency of trains will be maintained. “Ridership trends will be analysed and any change due to demand will be made later,” she said.Commuters entering NMRC premises will have to apply sanitisers on their hands, which will be made available after temperature screening. To ensure adequate social distance, passengers will be advised to stand in queues at designated spaces by visible markings one metre apart at frisking zones, platforms and inside the train. All lifts will be closed, however, in case of request for senior citizens and physically challenged persons, they will be made available, with a maximum of three persons allowed in a lift at a time. NMRC officials said that digital payments will be preferred, instead of currency notes for tickets.The stations falling in containment zones shall remain closed and trains will not stop at these stations. “In case of doubt regarding any person having coronavirus infection/symptoms, the suspected person will not be allowed entry in station premises. They will be given proper instructions for seeking medical help. To handle a passenger or baggage suspected of being infected with the Sars-Cov-2 virus, two personal protection equipment (PPE) suits at each station will be made available for concerned staff deployed at the station,” said another NMRC official, requesting anonymity.Sandhya Sharma, deputy general manager, NMRC, said that prohibition on spitting will be strictly enforced in all metro trains and station premises. “In case of violations, a fine of Rs 500 fine will be imposed at first occurrence and Rs 1,000 for subsequent occurrence,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-noida-metro-rail-corporation-makes-aarogya-setu-app-compulsory-for-all-travellers/story-7Ys0wXWphVlm2pn9wOixYI.html
16-05-2020||Mumbai||2 more Mumbai cops succumb to Covid-19; Maharashtra toll up to 11||A 32-year-old assistant police inspector (API) posted at Dharavi and a 57-year-old police assistant sub-inspector (ASI) from Mumbai Police died from Covid-19 infection on Saturday and Friday, respectively.The API was posted as a crime detection officer at Shahu Nagar police station in Mahim (East), which covers the viral outbreak-hit Dharavi slums. After coming down with a fever and cough, he was sent on leave from May 10. On May 13, his sample was tested at Sion hospital and on Saturday morning his result came positive for Covid-19, according to zonal deputy commissioner of police, Niyati Thaker.Around 5am on Saturday, he fell in the bathroom at his Pratiksha Nagar residence in Sion and lost consciousness. He was rushed to Sion hospital, where he was declared dead before doctors could treat him. The assistant inspector also suffered from high blood pressure and diabetes.A colleague of the API, who was waiting at the hospital to take his body home, said, “He had a friendly and jovial nature. He had told his wife two days ago that he will die if he is not admitted to the hospital within 48 hours, and today he has left us.”“Due to fever and cough, he was home quarantined since Sunday. For the last two days, he was trying to get himself admitted at Sion hospital but he was not allowed admission as he had not tested positive for Covid-19. On Friday, a senior inspector of Shahu Nagar police station contacted the hospital to get him admitted but could not get a positive response. If he was admitted two days ago he could have survived,” said another colleague of the deceased police officer. Ahead of his death, the API had posted on social media: “Some gave Rs 5 crore while some gave Rs 500 crore. We (police) are giving our lives :)” The officer used to live with his wife, a doctor, and their four-year-old daughter.In the second incident, the deceased ASI was working as a driver and was posted in the motor transport (MT) section of the Mumbai Police in Nagpada. HE was sent on leave 15 days ago, as, at the age of 57, he fell into the high-risk group. He died on Friday at a hospital. Additional commissioner Atul Patil of MT department and Mumbai Police spokesperson refused to release any further information on the ASI’s death.Following the API’s demise, Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh visited the Shahu Nagar police station on Saturday. “It’s an extremely sad and unfortunate incident. He was quite young, just 32 years old. Everyone is Maharashtra is well aware of the efforts put in by the state police to fight against this pandemic. Police and health workers are risking their lives and working round the clock so we can win against the pandemic. Several of them have also lost their lives in the line of duty. The families of the deceased police personnel will be getting ₹65 lakh [compensation of ₹50 lakh, ₹10 lakh from the police welfare fund, and ₹5 lakh as insurance) and a government job to a family member. After a life is lost, any amount of money cannot compensate for it but our government and our public will always stand behind the police force. It’s a tough war but we will win it together,” Deshmukh said.1,140 Covid-19 cases in state, 11 deathsWithin the Maharashtra Police, 1,140 personnel tested positive for Covid-19 till Saturday, including 538 from Mumbai Police, of whom, 949 belong to the rank of constable. The death toll in the police force has risen to 11; eight from Mumbai and one each from Pune, Solapur, and Nashik Rural. While one of the deaths is of an API rank officer, the rest are from the constabulary or ASIs.(Inputs from Jayprakash S Naidu)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2-more-mumbai-cops-succumb-to-covid-19-maharashtra-toll-up-to-11/story-MqgUbLwkXjfx2FWwivWpHO.html
16-05-2020||Noida||95% ration card holders given food, claims administration||The Gautam Budh Nagar administration said it provided ration to almost 95% ration card holders in the first 11 days of May and that over 11,500 new cards were issued ever since the beginning of the lockdown on March 25.The prime minister had announced a nation-wide lockdown on March 24 which is now in its second extension scheduled to end on May 17. The situation had left thousands of people without means to feed themselves or their families. The district administration in April had formed 169 teams to identify and issue ration cards to all who requires it.“With the efforts of those teams working on the ground, almost 11,500 new cards have been issued ever since the lockdown started. We currently have 1,85,799 cards of whom 94.76% people were issued ration in May so far,” said the district supplies officer, Raj Narayan Yadav.The figure is slightly higher than in April when 91.38% card holders were provided with ration out of 1,80,657 active cards. Under the Pradhan Mantri Gareeb Kalyan Yojna for May, Gautam Budh Nagar is leading in the state with more than 68% distribution completed.Announcing the second tranche of economic aid, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced that people could use their ration cards to obtain food from any of the public distribution systems in the country.In Gautam Budh Nagar district, these services are available at 134 distribution centers in the city and 244 in the rural belts.For those people who don’t have families, ration cards can be issued if they are from the same state and for migrants living alone, they can still get ration with their Aadhaar cards through the public distribution system, said officials. Further more, they are also entitled to relief from the chief minister’s rahat kosh and the administration is distributing those kits containing nine items including rice, pulses, atta, etc while the three authorities are also distributing cooked food in the district.Officials also said that surprise inspections are being carried out all over the district and three vendors have been booked under the Essential services act for various violations.However, despite all efforts that the administration has claimed to carry out, some people are still dependent on generosity of individuals for basic needs.“In the starting of the month, someone gave me Rs 500 with which I bought many things. But then we started running out and are almost begging now for anyone to help us out. Sometimes the Authority vehicle comes with khichdi, but they give a very small portion and it is not even close to helping my family of seven- husband and five children. Random people have been helping us out with ration,” said Sithadevi, a domestic help from Hoshiyarpur village.Her family received an uncooked food package from volunteers of an NGO and the family hopes that it will sustain them for the week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/95-ration-card-holders-given-food-claims-administration/story-qB2n6QFRI8gcFiMd0QfFyJ.html
16-05-2020||Noida||Won’t come back any time soon, say migrants as they board first train from Noida||Fifty-two days after the nationwide lockdown was imposed to curtail the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), effectively shutting down all industries and enterprises and rendering thousands of people jobless, migrant workers from Gautam Budh Nagar district boarded the first four special trains to Bihar on Saturday. With all interstate and interdistrict travel curtailed, many migrant workers had started walking back to their home towns in other states, unmindful of the daunting distances or the hardship of the journey. They heaved a sigh of relief on Saturday as the trains chugged in to the station to ferry them home.The trains on Saturday left for Aurangabad, Buxar, Rohtas and Siwan districts of Bihar from Dadri and Dankaur railway stations.“We are really happy and thankful that we got this train. We were almost losing hope of getting one and was thinking of walking back. Also, this lockdown had taught us the value of home and what’s it like being away during such a crisis. I am not returning any sooner, not even if normalcy returns next week,” Sukhendra Kumar, who hails from Aurangabad district, and lives at Sector 78, said as he boarded boarding a train at Dadri station.Despite the high registrations of migrants from Bihar alone – around 68,000 – the turnout at stations was low. Of the 1,300 passengers registered to go to Aurangabad, only 978 showed up, even as officials held the train back for two hours and kept coordinating with families which were on their way.For Buxar, there were about 1,300 registrations, of which only 656 boarded trains. For Rohtas, 1,524 passengers turned out from the nearly 1,600 who had registered.A total of 1,520 turned up to board the train to Siwan of the 1,600 who registered.Officials said this could be the effect of industries reopening. The fare and food on the journey were sponsored by the district administration. “I received a text message on my phone confirming that my wife and I got seats on this train, and this restored some faith in the system. A bus was deployed to our area that brought us here to the station, and we were not charged any fare, neither for the bus not the train. Upon screening we were given tickets, food packets, and water,” said Jitendra Pandey, a resident of Aurangabad who boarded a passenger train at Dadri along with his wife Rita Pandey and two children. Pandey, who works at a mobile company in Noida, said he will remain at his home town for at least a month or more.Umesh Kumar, another migrant from Rafiganj, Aurangabad, worked at a shop in Noida and lived at Harola said that one of his neighbour from Buxar informed him about the online registration process last week and he received the seat confirmation on Friday. “There were a number of issues during this lockdown, like not having enough to eat, a situation I would never have faced at home,” he said.District magistrate Suhas LY said, “We are still receiving registrations from migrant workers who wish to go home, and more trains are being arranged for all those already registered for Bihar. However, since industries have reopened, some of them have decided to stay back and they are most welcome.” He, along with police commissioner Alok Singh, inspected the arrangements at stations and saw off the passengers. A battalion of Rapid Action Force (RAF), about 50 police personnel and 50 railway protection force (RPF) personnel at each of the stations ensured social distancing.He added that transport arrangements will also be made for passengers from states other than Bihar and also for those from other districts of Uttar Pradesh.“Our teams are on the ground and there are many migrants from Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand, etc. We will soon start the registrations for these states and make transport arrangements. Registration for interdistrict has already started,” Suhas said. According to the health officials, the screening of passengers began around 8am while teams supervised the sanitisation of trains.“We had 20 two-member teams screening passengers for Covid-19 symptoms. A few passengers had walked to the station and hence their body temperature was high. Those passengers were made to rest and screened again, sanitised and permitted to board the train,” Dr Sanjeev Saraswat, from the community health centre, Dadri, said. No one was found with Covid-like symptoms, the doctor said.Meanwhile, the district administration unveiled the online link -- www.tinyurl.com/pravasi-shramik-UP -- for the migrant workers belonging to Uttar Pradesh to register. The administration will arrange transport to all 74 districts of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/won-t-come-back-any-time-soon-say-migrants-as-they-board-first-train-from-noida/story-nUnEOz7bJbq4iniLsaR7RL.html
16-05-2020||Chandigarh||Capt tells police to snuff out illicit liquor biz in state||Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday directed the police department to crack down on all kinds of liquor smuggling, bootlegging and illicit distillation of liquor to protect the cash-strapped state from incurring revenue losses due to such activities.Captain ordered immediate action to be initiated against deputy superintendents of police (DSP) of sub-divisions and station house officers (SHO) in whose areas such activity is taking place. he also ordered strict proceedings against any government officer or official found negligent or abetting any illegal activity in any manner relating to distillation, smuggling or distribution of liquor.The CM’s directions come at a time when Opposition parties and the ruling Congress are trading charges over this issue, which is also at the heart of the recent discord between bureaucrats and ministers in Amarinder’s cabinet.On the CM’s directives, DGP Dinkar Gupta has issued necessary directives to all commissioners of police (CP) and senior superintendents of police (SSP) in the state to identify liquor smugglers, suppliers and bootleggers, district-wise and police station wise, by May 23. The officers have also been asked to take all possible legal action against such persons, including under the relevant provisions of the Disaster Management and Epidemics Act etc.The DGP said the CM had made it clear that owing to acute economic stress in the country arising from the curfew, the state government must mobilise all possible revenue. Following the CM’s orders, the DGP has directed CPs and SSPs to hold a meeting via video conferencing with DSPs of sub-divisions and SHOs to make it absolutely clear that if any illegal liquor factory is found operational in his area of jurisdiction, as in Khanna and Rajpura recently, he will be liable to be shifted out with legal and departmental action initiated against him. He will also become ineligible for SHO and public dealing postings in future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/capt-tells-police-to-snuff-out-illicit-liquor-biz-in-state/story-zORGdoZxC09LLAjG1hrJiP.html
16-05-2020||Mumbai||ICMR yet to approve pool testing in Maharashtra as state fails to meet criteria||Twenty-two days after the state government announced it would start pool testing, not a single pool test for Covid-19 has taken place as the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) is yet to give Maharashtra the go-ahead to for the same.According to ICMR guidelines, to conduct pool testing, less than 2% of the total tests conducted should be positive. The state’s percentage of positive cases is more than that at present, said a senior state official.“I have been following on the matter but ICMR is yet to approve pool testing in the state,” said public health minister Rajesh Tope.Till Saturday the state conducted 2,61,783 tests, of which 30,706 (8.52%) came back positive. Pool testing involves checking up to five samples in a single test. The pool testing algorithm involves the Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) screening of a specimen pool, comprising multiple samples. In case a pool test comes positive, each sample is tested individually. At present, one sample is tested at a time.“With the new form of testing, the state’s capacity would increase 10 fold. Pool testing could help us identify new clusters or hotspots faster,” said a senior health official.After a meeting with Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on April 24, Tope had announced that the state would start pool testing and clinical trial of plasma therapy soon. Clinical trials of plasma therapy have started but there has been no progress on pool testing.The ICMR guidelines state that pool testing should be used only in areas with a low prevalence of Covid-19. It further states that in areas with 2-5% of the samples test positive, pooling for PCR screening may be considered only in community surveys or surveillance among asymptomatic individuals. The guidelines strictly exclude pooling samples of individuals in known contact with confirmed cases.“All over the state, the percentage of positive reports is more than 2% and that’s why we are not eligible to conduct tests. The state can do it on its own but we prefer to follow the guidelines issued by ICMR as it is the technical nodal agency. There are also different issues involved in this such as accuracy of tests, number of samples being used for testing, etc,” said a senior official from the medical education department.He said that pool testing will help in multiplying the number of tests conducted. For instance, labs which have a capacity of 100 tests a day, will be able to conduct up to 1,000 tests daily.The state has enhanced its testing capacity from 100 samples a day to around 22,000 a day. This includes 57 laboratories (33 government and 24 private) with RT-PCR tests, six laboratories (three government and three private) of CB-NAAT tests, and two private laboratories for TrueNat testing. All are approved by ICMR as Covid-19 tests.“When we started, we had only one functional lab at Kasturba Hospital with a capacity of 100 samples a day. The capacity has gone up 220 times in about two months. We lead India and have more capacity than many countries. Testing in Maharashtra is strictly as per ICMR guidelines,” said another official from the state medical education department.To assess the spread of infection among the masses, the state government last month had announced that it would conduct antibody testing. This too could not be started as ICMR found that the testing kits were faulty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/icmr-yet-to-approve-pool-testing-in-maharashtra-as-state-fails-to-meet-criteria/story-USINCxjXHe2nKPWPcxQaUP.html
16-05-2020||Mumbai||SoBo residents object to quarantine centre at Wankhede stadium||Opposing the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) decision on Friday to create a Covid care centre (CCC) and quarantine facility at Wankhede stadium near Churchgate, former Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA from the area, Raj Purohit wrote to municipal commissioner IS Iqbal on Saturday. Purohit has demanded that BMC reconsider its decision to set up a care centre at the stadium.In his letter, Purohit said the residents and businessmen of the adjoining areas are afraid and approached him to strongly oppose creating the CCC at Wankhede stadium. He said locals have threatened that if the work goes ahead, people will protest on the roads.Purohit said in his letter that Wankhede stadium is surrounded by “highly well-known destinations” like Marine Drive, Nariman Point, Churchgate, Queen’s Road, New Marine Lines, Cooperage, and Oval Maidan the neighbourhood as “well-disciplined and law-abiding” residents. Purohit proposed that the CCC be shifted to a nearby hospital such as St George Hospital, GT Hospital, or Cama Hospital, or on Mumbai Port Trust land.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sobo-residents-object-to-quarantine-centre-at-wankhede-stadium/story-0kBPzu2Y62GIuZxc9Gb7YN.html
16-05-2020||City||TMT increases bus services for healthcare workers||The Thane Municipal Transport (TMT) has increased its bus services considering the increase in healthcare workers travelling to work. With as the number of Covid patients in Thane is rapidly increasing, more health workers have been called in to assist in hospitals. “After lockdown began, 35 TMT buses were plying on different routes, ferrying 3,000 commuters daily. The passengers are mostly employees from the health sector. The TMC is now running 98 bus services daily,” said a senior official from TMT, Thane.TMT has been ferrying employees and workers of essential and emergency services without charging fare since the lockdown began.“We run 50 buses in the morning and 48 in the evening after daily commuters travelling by TMT buses have increased from 3,000 to to 6,000,” he said.The number of TMT staff, including drivers and conductors, called in to work has increased from 70 to 200 a day. The TMT buses are plying from Thane to Badlapur, Ambernath, Palghar, Panvel, Kalyan-Dombivli, Shahpur, Karjat, Borivali, Dadar and Navi Mumbai, added the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tmt-increases-bus-services-for-healthcare-workers/story-7alazo5ZaeacRBiNFsk2HK.html
16-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab replaces curfew with lockdown till May 31||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Saturday announced to replace the curfew with lockdown in the state till May 31, while indicating resumption of limited public transport and maximum possible relaxations in the non-containment zones from May 18 onwards.However, the containment zones will be strictly sealed and the details of all relaxations will be announced by Monday, taking into account the new guidelines of the Centre for Lockdown 4.0. He, however, made it clear that educational institutes will continue to remain closed for the safety of children.In a live Facebook interaction, as part of his #AskCaptain initiative, the CM said the daily number of new cases in the state has come down sharply in the last four days or so, after an upsurge due to the arrival of pilgrims from Nanded, students from Kota, and labourers. He thanked the people for their cooperation, enabling the state to control the Covid cases, whose doubling rate was now 44 days, much better than several states, such as Maharashtra’s 11 days.The numbers could go up as more migrant labourers and NRIs enter Punjab, he warned, adding that 60,000 Punjabis from other states and 20,000 from abroad have registered for return.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-replaces-curfew-with-lockdown-till-may-31/story-xzwdiW8U5oRXD1YM4MxaAI.html
16-05-2020||City||SGPC to move SC seeking control of Puri gurdwara||The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) on Saturday decided to move the Supreme Court seeking management of the historic Gurdwara Mangu Mutt at Puri in Odisha.The decision was taken during a video conference of the sub-committee constituted by the SGPC on the issue. The meeting was attended by SGPC functionaries, Sikh leaders of Odisha and senior lawyer Birjinder Singh.The lawyer was asked to file a petition in this regard in the apex court.Besides, it was decided that the SGPC would continue its efforts to take up the matter with the governments concerned.Notably, a row over the gurdwara erupted after many of the structures situated on its premises were demolished in December last year. Since then, the Sikh community has been demanding that its management be handed over to the SGPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sgpc-to-move-sc-seeking-control-of-puri-gurdwara/story-yFqVQeNZj6wHb5h8i9ePlO.html
16-05-2020||City||PO held with 250 gm heroin||The crime investigation agency (CIA) wing of Amritsar commissionerate police arrested a proclaimed offender (PO), wanted in two drug cases, with 250 gm heroin at Chabhal road here on Saturday.Police said accused Harpreet Singh, alias Sonu Baba, of Attari village had links with some Pakistan-based smugglers. He had been getting the heroin supply from across the border, they said. Addressing a press conference at his office, CIA wing in-charge Sukhwinder Singh Randhawa said Sonu Baba, wanted in two cases in which 1.5 kg heroin was seized, was arrested with the contraband at the Chabhal road naka. Randhawa said earlier on March 18, they had arrested Sonu Baba’s brother-in-law Manjit Singh with 1 kg heroin. “When Manjit was interrogated, he told us that he had got the heroin from Sonu Baba, and was on his way to supply it in the villages. Soon after this, a trap was laid to arrest Sonu. A naka was set up in Islamabad area to arrest Sonu, who was on a Honda Activa scooter while his wife was a pillion rider. However, after seeing the police party, Sonu fled, but we had arrested his wife Sadhgi with 500 gm heroin,” said Randhawa. . A case under the NDPS Act has already been registered against Sonu at Islamabad police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/po-held-with-250-gm-heroin/story-iJO2jxaan81Yajfm1ECpIK.html
16-05-2020||City||Police hold meeting with social workers, NGOs in Ludhiana to deal with problems of migrants||To resolve the problems being faced by migrants, the district police conducted a meeting with members of non-government organisations (NGOs), social activists and heads of labour groups at a private resort here on Saturday.Around 100 people attended the meeting in which the police appealed to participants to form migrant welfare committees at ward, area or village levels to deal with the problems of migrants. The meeting was held under the observation of deputy commissioner of police (DCP – headquarters) Akhil Chaudhary.During the meeting, additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP-2) Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said members of welfare committees would coordinate with the police to resolve the problems of labourers so that they are not forced to leave the city.“Members will look after the issues regarding ration, community kitchen service, medicines, work atmosphere in factories, problem in booking tickets for special trains and other issues being faced by migrants. The members will also inform the police about problems for timely solution of the same,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-hold-meeting-with-social-workers-ngos-in-ludhiana-to-deal-with-problems-of-migrants/story-i35QhsiZSDym6P4Ld4VBML.html
16-05-2020||City||Construction workers at Bathinda AIIMS indulge in stone pelting||Tension prevailed at the premises of All Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Bathinda, on Saturday after agitated workers, engaged in construction work there, resorted to stone pelting demanding transportation for sending them to their home states. The workers initially pelted stones on the office of the private construction company that hired them and later at a police vehicle when the cops arrived at the site.One of the labourers’ leaders, seeking anonymity, said the workers had requested the company officials to send them home as they found it tough to live here under the prevailing crisis amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The company had promised to send them home by May 16. “However, when the workers gathered near the company office on Saturday, the officials told them that they will be charged Rs 3,000 per head for their bus journey. Expressing their inability to pay money, the workers started protesting. The company officials then called police which used force to disperse the workers,” he said.Bathinda senior superintendent of police (SSP) Nanak Singh, however, denied use of force on the labourers or any stone pelting by them. “The workers had gathered at the site demanding arrangements for their journey and we convinced them that they will be sent home through special trains.” Meanwhile, a video has surfaced on the social media in which angry workers can be seen pelting stones on the office of the construction company. In another video, workers are seen pelting stones at a police vehicle.A company official looking after the construction work said around 1,600 workers were engaged in the construction work when the lockdown started. “Around 300 of them have already left for their states while 1,300 are still working at the site. Construction work had resumed at the site on April 20 onward.”The out-patient department (OPD) services at the AIIMS here started in December last year after construction of the OPD block while work on other buildings is going on.Bathinda sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Amarinder Singh Tiwana said the AIIMS officials have been told that they will be intimated whenever a train is available to take these workers to their home states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/construction-workers-at-bathinda-aiims-indulge-in-stone-pelting/story-8SOBykAwD94eRCyQNxS9BN.html
16-05-2020||Lucknow||AI flight with 180 Indians to reach Kashi on May 18||An Air India (AI) flight carrying around 180 Indians from the United Kingdom (UK) will arrive at Lal Bahadur Shastri international airport, Varanasi, on Monday (May 18), said airport director Akashdeep Mathur.He said a censor-based sanitiser dispenser was installed at the airport for the sanitisation of every passenger and also their luggage. Before they step out of the airport, they would be apprised of dos and don’ts to keep Covid-19 infection away.Moreover, additional district magistrate (protocol) Atul Kumar and regional tourism officer Kirtiman Srivastava inspected the airport and took stock of the arrangements.Kumar said three categories of hotels had been reserved at reduced rates. In these hotels, the Indians being taken from the UK will be kept in institutional quarantine for 14 days. Srivastava said rooms in the three hotels were also inspected. There are 120 rooms in ‘A’ category, 90 in ‘B’ category and 50 rooms in ‘C’ category. Each ‘A’ category room is for Rs 3,500, including two meals and breakfast, each ‘B’ category room is for Rs 2,500 and ‘C’ category room is for Rs 1,000.Srivastava said the staff of the hotels were instructed to make proper arrangements for safe and comfortable accommodation of the Indians. They will not be allowed to meet anyone from outside. Tourist police will be deployed at these hotels, he added.Srivastava said hotels’ staff/management was instructed to ensure that each of the passenger strictly followed social distancing and wore masks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/ai-flight-with-180-indians-to-reach-kashi-on-may-18/story-vCIFsF4C6iv3HokL4hGuCL.html
16-05-2020||City||6-year-old untouched by Covid-19 despite 15-day exposure to ill patients||In a peculiar case, a six-year-old boy remained unaffected by Covid-19, despite staying with his infected parents during their 15-day long treatment period in the isolation ward of Gurdaspur civil hospital.Gurnoor Singh of Gurdaspur’s Dostpur village had accompanied his parents on their pilgrimage to Hazur Sahib in Nanded, Maharashtra, were they were stranded for around one and a half months. On return, he tested negative for Covid-19, but his parents turned out infected and were isolated in the hospital.“As other family members of the boy had also tested positive for Covid-19, nobody was there to look after him in his parents’ absence. Moreover, the child insisted to live with his parents. Under these circumstances, the administration decided to allow him to live with his parents in the isolation ward, where total 40 patients were admitted,” said Gurdaspur civil surgeon Dr Kisan Chand.Gurnoor’s father said, “Though we were asymptomatic, keeping him (son) with us in the isolation ward was risky as we had tested positive and many infected patients were there. We kept him with us because we had no other option and my son was not ready to live without us. However, we took every precaution advised by the doctors.”He was tested twice, and the results were negative both times. After his parents recovered and were discharged from the hospital on Thursday, he was presented with a siropa (robe of honour) by Punjab jails and cooperation minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa in the presence of senior district officials.When asked how the boy was able to resist the infection, Dr Chand said, “First of all, his immunity played a major role. Secondly, we gave special attention to this case to keep him fit. Besides ensuring that the family wore masks and sanitised hands at all times, we asked the child to sleep on a separate bed alone, and he followed the advice. This helped him keep the infection at bay.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/6-year-old-untouched-by-covid-19-despite-15-day-exposure-to-ill-patients/story-MshC4k3pHdVs86NgB87XoL.html
16-05-2020||Lucknow||UP: 450 trains have brought migrants home, 286 more coming||Nearly 450 trains have so far brought 5,64,000 home-bound migrant labourers to Uttar Pradesh and another 286 trains with 3.85 lakh migrants onboard are expected to arrive over the next couple of days.“The state government is bringing all its migrant labourers free of cost,” said additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi at a press conference on Saturday.He said 223 trains had brought 3 lakh people from Gujarat while 1,20,000 people had come by 97 trains from Maharashtra and 90,000 people had been transported by 78 trains from Punjab so far. “These are besides the 6 trains from Telangana, 5 from Kerala, 4 from Tamil Nadu, 2 each from Andhra Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh, 12 from Rajasthan and 2 trains from Goa which have brought migrant labourers home,” Awathi added. He further said the state government had so far transferred Rs 1,000 each to the bank accounts of 32.07 lakh migrant labourers or the destitute.‘CORONA TESTING TO BE SCALED UP’Covid-19 testing will be scaled up in the state, Awasthi said. “Testing capacity is to be increased to 10,000 tests per day. To ensure that ventilators are operated by experts, availability of a doctor and a trained paramedic is to be ensured in each district,” he added.He said the government had ordered availability of one ultra red thermometer for each village.‘Depts to make plan for using fund announced by PM’All departments were to ready a plan for utilising the special economic package announced by the PM, Awasthi said.‘FIR FOR FAKE NEWS ON SOCIAL MEDIA’The government had so far come across 983 instances of fake news, he said adding action had been taken in all the cases. “Today (on Saturday) 20 cases, including 8 on twitter, 10 on facebook and 2 on whatsapp, have come to light and all of them have been referred to cyber cell for action,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-450-trains-have-brought-migrants-home-286-more-coming/story-b2Lfia6YR8BwklZzzwliAI.html
16-05-2020||Chandigarh||With 1,257 patients cured, Punjab’s recovery rate is almost double the national figures||In a huge breather for Punjab, 526 Covid-19 patients were discharged from hospitals in the state on Saturday, taking the tally of cured patients to 1,257 out of 1,946 confirmed cases, according to government figures released in the evening. The state now has 657 active cases.The development has placed Punjab in the category of states with best recovery rates, with around 65% of the total positive cases declared cured.Punjab’s recovery rate is now almost double the national rate of 35% — 30,153 cured of 85,940, according to data updated on the Union ministry of health and family welfare website on Saturday.Saturday was the second back-to-back big day, when the state witnessed more than 500 patients getting recovered from the virus. As many as 508 were declared cured on Friday. With this, the state has suddenly taken a giant leap in recovery rate from 10% on May 13 (200 out of total 1,924) to 65% on May 16.As more than 200 patients are likely to be discharged on Sunday too, Punjab is set to further strengthen its position as far as the cure rate is concerned.The news has come as a shot in the arm for the state government, which was feeling the heat from various quarters over its mismanagement in bringing back Sikh pilgrims stuck at Nanded in Maharashtra. As 1,257 pilgrims out of around 4,200 were tested positive, the sudden spike had put the state government on the back foot, with Punjab becoming one of the worst-hit 10 states. Maximum Nanded-returned pilgrims curedOut of the total 1,257 pilgrims, around 1,200 have been cured as on Saturday, said Covid-19 nodal officer of the state Dr Rajesh Bhaskar.“Most of them have already been discharged from government hospitals and their discharge will continue on Sunday as well,” he said. Acording to the health department, the discharge of a large number of positive cases has been done as per the new policy of the Union health ministry, which advises the states to discharge asymptomatic patients under treatment in government facilities for 14 days.“Barring mere 35, all pilgrims have remained asymptomatic ever since they were tested positive for the virus after their arrival in Punjab between April 25- 30,” a senior health department functionary said.Ferozepur, Barnala has no active case nowThe district-wise tally of the state now reveals that out of 22 districts , Ferozepur and Barnala have become corona-free, whereas six districts of Amritsar, Gurdaspur, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, Hoshiarpur, Moga and Kapurthala have less than 10 active cases.Amritsar, the district with largest number of positive cases, has only two active cases out of 301 positive cases as 145 were discharged on Saturday while four have succumbed earlier.While the last three Covid-19 patients were discharged in Ferozepur district on Saturday, where of 44 cases, 42 were of Nanded returnees, in Barnala, 17 pilgrims, including a seven-year-old girl, were among 19 recovered patients.Meanwhile, seven patients were discharged in Bathinda district while three recovered in Mansa on Saturday. Now, Bathinda has 15 active cases and Mansa has 20. In Rupnagar district, 29 people were discharged, bringing the number of active cases down to 28. Also, 34 patients were discharged in Sangrur and 39 in Faridkot.In Jalandhar, recovery rate jumped to 65% with 22 more patients being discharged. The district has reported 211 positive cases so far, of whom 139 have won the battle over coronavirus disease.As many as 75 patients recovered of the novel coronavirus in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar on Saturday, bringing down the number of active cases to nine. Senior medical officer Dr Harwinder Singh said an undertaking has been taken from all to remain in home isolation for seven days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/with-1-257-patients-cured-punjab-s-recovery-rate-is-almost-double-the-national-figures/story-tVEzyRWOpQcPwliDS09EEN.html
16-05-2020||Chandigarh||Govt has let down working class: Trade unions call for protest on May 22||The joint platform of central trade unions (CTUs) have alleged that on the pretext of the Covid epidemic, the government has been taking decisions that are detrimental to the working class and commoners, who are already in deep distress amid the lockdown.The unions, after holding a meeting in Doraha, Ludhiana, said that trade unions, independently and unitedly, have made several representations to the prime minister and labour minister. The unions have brought to their attention, the rampant violations of government’s own directives and advisories regarding payment of full wages to workers and non-termination of employment amid the lockdown, but in vain.“The government, despite making announcements about ration distribution, or even cash transfers to women and senior citizens, has failed to deliver as the said help didn’t reach most beneficiaries,” said Bal Krishan Kirti and Malkiat Singh Burail, working committee members of the All India Centre of Trade Unions.The leaders also announced their support to the call for a nationwide protest by 10 trade unions on May 22, to endorse the decision of CTUs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/govt-has-let-down-working-class-trade-unions-call-for-protest-on-may-22/story-vcDvdJOznCBo5vlbRCAeEI.html
16-05-2020||City||With 94 new cases, Thane crosses 1000 mark||With 94 new cases recorded in the past 24 hours, the city recorded the highest one-day spike. The total number of Covid positive cases in the city is 1,090. Covid cases have doubled from 500 cases on May 7 to 1,000 on May 16 in merely 10 days.Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC), said, “Wagale Estate, Mumbra and Lokmanyanagar Sawarkarnagar wards have recorded the highest increase of 21, 20 and 17 cases respectively.”Till Saturday, 283 patients had recovered and discharged, as per the TMC’s record.Treatment charges to be displayed Following the directives of guardian minister of Thane district Eknath Shinde, TMC has given directives to private hospital which have been declared as Covid hospitals to display the charges outside the hospital. The rates will be fixed by TMC and the hospitals will have to follow them. Civic commissioner Vijay Singhal said, “We will ensure that the common man in the city is not deprived of proper medical treatment. We will fix a rate for treatment which the private hospital will have to display at the entrance of the hospital so that there is transparency.”Wholesale markets closed in NaupadaThane Municipal Corporation has issued orders to close the wholesale market in Kharkar Ali and Jambli Naka on Sunday after a man tested positive from Kharkar Ali. The wholesale grocery market has been set up at Kharkar Ali and a vegetable market at Jambli Naka area. Small traders crowd the markets, violating the social distancing norm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-94-new-cases-thane-crosses-1000-mark/story-tR2zlh0tyKkrX3oERlwmWM.html
16-05-2020||Lucknow||Agra attains cure rate of 61 %, 96 Covid-19 patients discharged in 24 hrs||Agra attained cure rate of 61 % with discharge of 96 Covid-19 cured patients in the last 24 hours, bringing some respite for Agra administration, already facing criticism for rising number of coronavirus cases.Agra has reported 9 more cases of Covid-19 during the last 24 hours, increasing the tally to 798. “The district of Agra has attained cure percentage of 61 % with discharge of 96 Covid-19 patients in the last 24 hours. In all 485 cases of Covid-19 positive cases have been cured till now, leaving only 283 active cases in Agra district,” said district magistrate Prabhu N Singh.Many in Agra give credit to five-member team, sent by chief minister recently, for it as a new group of leaders at SN Medical College and Hospital was formed. Dr GK Aneja was replaced by new principal and the chief medical superintendent too was changed for SN Medical College. Strictness was evident in containment zones which led to slowdown in rise of cases this week.The district of Agra had witnessed 42 Covid-19 cases cured and discharged on Friday in day time and 54 more were discharged after being cured from different isolation centers in Agra later in the night hours.“In all 10,377 samples have been collected in Agra district where there are 44 active containment zones after closure of 17 containment zones,” informed DM.Agra was the first district in state to have first five positive cases of Covid-19 on March 2 and presently is having maximum Covid-19 positive cases reported in the state. Altogether 28 persons including an inmate from central jail and one inmate from district jail have lost their lives due to it in Agra so far.CHILD RIGHTS BODY TAKE COGNISANCE OF COMPLAINTNational Commission for Protection of Child Rights has taken cognisance of complaint, made by social activist Naresh Paras, for death of 6-month old infant who allegedly lost his life in absence of ambulance and required attention. The district magistrate of Agra has been asked to furnish action taken report in three days. Earlier too, the commission had sought action taken report for death of three children in similar condition in Agra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/agra-attains-cure-rate-of-61-96-covid-19-patients-discharged-in-24-hrs/story-V3tmrTkE8oB2TpcohcY4HM.html
16-05-2020||City||Police terminate services of volunteer for duping labourer of Rs 3,000 in Ludhiana||Police terminated the services of a volunteer for allegedly duping a labourer of Rs 3,000 on the pretext of buying him tickets of a Shramik Special Train on Saturday.The labourer has not lodged any FIR against the volunteer, but the police have stopped availing his services.Inspector Jarnail Singh, SHO at Division number 8 police station, said, “A labourer, along with his family members, was making rounds of the Guru Nanak Stadium to get tickets to reach his native place on Friday. A volunteer, known to the labourer, took Rs 3,000 from him on the pretext of arranging tickets for him.”“When he did not return till Friday night, the labourer contacted the police. The police traced the volunteer and asked him to return the money. However, the labourer had also already applied online for the tickets.”“We asked the labourer to lodge an FIR against the accused, but he denied to do so,” said the SHO.“The labourer, along with his family members, left for Uttar Pradesh on Saturday, but we have terminated the services of the volunteer,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-terminate-services-of-volunteer-for-duping-labourer-of-rs-3-000-in-ludhiana/story-Yyv1ExoeVmR76gWm9j3hOM.html
16-05-2020||City||Cong leader Sukhram’s grandson Aashray demands FIR against Mandi MP||Days after supporters of former minister Sudhir Sharma filed a complaint in Dharamshala against Mandi MP Ram Swaroop Sharma for his alleged statement on some Congress leaders violating lockdown norms, Aashray Sharma, grandson of veteran leader and former Union minister Pandit Sukhram has lodged a similar complaint with the Mandi police.Ram Swaroop, in a statement on May 13, had said that he returned to the state during the lockdown complying with all the formalities but some Congress leaders had entered into the state violating the norms.He alleged that senior Congress leaders Sukhram, Sudhir Sharma, Viplove Thakur and GS had entered the state illegally.Meanwhile, in the complaint sent to the Mandi SSP, Aashray alleged that MP made a false and frivolous complaint with mala fide intention to defame his grandfather.“Pandit Sukhram returned from Delhi on February 20, more than a month before the nationwide lockdown was imposed,” said Aashray.Ever since he is in Mandi town. The same can be verified by tracing his mobile locations during this period,” he added.Aashray said that Mandi MP’s false statement amounts to various offences under the Disaster Management Act and also violated the guidelines of the Centre and state government to desist from spreading rumours.“The false statement made by Ram Swaroop Sharma has defamed, insulted, and harmed the reputation of veteran leader Sukhram and his family,” he alleged.“So, I request Mandi police to lodge an FIR and take appropriate action against Mandi MP for maligning the image of the veteran leader,” he added.Earlier, Rajesh Kapoor, president of Dharamshala Block Congress and supporter of former minister Sudhir Sharma and filed a complaint against the MP at Dharamshala. Kapoor in his complaint had stated that Sudhir Sharma returned to Himachal before the lockdown period and Ram Swaroop tarnished his image by making a false statement in the media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cong-leader-sukhram-s-grandson-aashray-demands-fir-against-mandi-mp/story-V7BZ28BHtsug7WiIp5Qm6N.html
16-05-2020||City||Jai Ram asks panchayati raj representatives to help poor, especially migrant workers||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur on Saturday exhorted the Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRI) representatives to come forward to help poor and the migrant workers in these distressing times due to Covid-19. He was addressing the Panchayat Pradhans of gram panchayats of Solan and Sirmour district.“Panchayat pradhans should come forward to help the poor and migrant workers by providing them food and shelter,” said the chief minister adding that panchayats must also come forward to provide masks to people.He also urged them to support the state authorities in sensitising the people of their respective areas about coronavirus as well as ensure that the people who had arrived from other parts of the country do not jump home quarantine.Thakur said that PRIs were the key part of the democratic setup.CM added that more than 1.15 lakh people have arrived in the state from various parts of the country and about 60,000 more have applied for e-passes.“There was only one active Covid-19 case on May 1 and the number has now gone up to 34,” he said.Thakur said there was no need to panic as the government was fully prepared to deal with any situation.Trade union, civil rights group draw attention of govt towards plight of migrantsDHARAMSHALA: Over 30 organisations comprising trade unions, civil rights groups, youth alliances, independent social organisations from across the country on Saturday issued an appeal in support of workers from other states stranded in Himachal Pradesh.They stressed urgent coordination between states to ensure and facilitate the safe return of migrants to their homes.The appeal specifically highlights the distressful state of thousands of migrant workers in the Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh industrial area and the lack of response of the administration and respective governments to ensure urgent evacuation of those who want to leave.It raised the plight of workers from Uttar Pradesh, who have long registered themselves on the online portals to travel back but were yet to get the permission.The pressure groups also alleged that “private bus operators were charging exuberant fares from already deprived people and the government is not helping the poor”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jai-ram-asks-panchayati-raj-representatives-to-help-poor-especially-migrant-workers/story-1J6u8TO7oSnRiOioBgxGxH.html
16-05-2020||Chandigarh||HC defers pending cases hearing till July||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Saturday deferred hearing of pending cases listed between May 18 and May 31 to the second half of July in view of lockdown and Covid-19 outbreak. A notice in this regard was put out by the high court administration on Saturday.An official of the high court said that administration is waiting for the detailed guidelines from the ministry of home affairs (MHA) and will make changes if warranted, accordingly. The official also said if there is an urgency involved, litigants can file an application for early hearing. He also added that a decision with regard to summer vacations, which falls in June, will also be taken accordingly. High court’s work is restricted to hearing of urgent cases only, but with prior mentioning since March 16. Currently, two division benches and 10 single benches are taking up around 200 cases through video conferencing, whereas, daily listing of the cases on a normal day in high court remains around 2,500-3,000.Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association secretary Rohit Sud said the court should ease listing norms and allow hearing of fresh cases without mentioning. “We had given a charter of demands and sought for physical hearing to resume in courts. But final decision is to be taken by the administration,” he added. Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana (BCPH) chairman Karanjit Singh underlined that the high court should experiment with allowing physical hearing at least on trial basis and designate some benches for the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hc-defers-pending-cases-hearing-till-july/story-zwowBGoJPzvHm5Cjy8iR9J.html
16-05-2020||City||‘No migrant is crossing Yamuna river to enter Uttar Pradesh’||After multiple reports and videos claiming that migrants are crossing the Yamuna River to enter Uttar Pradesh’s Saharanpur, senior officials of the Yamunanagar administration on Saturday inspected several areas near the Haryana-Uttar Pradesh border to access the situation. Deputy commissioner Mukul Kumar along with superintendent of police Himanshu Garg and other officials visited a few villages situated on the western bank of Yamuna River.The DC said, “As of now, there is no movement across the Yamuna and we are inspecting the areas since morning. Normally, there is movement near the ghats which have lesser water levels. However, we have deployed adequate forces to avoid any such situation.” He said, “If any migrant labourers want to return to their native place, they will be sent back by bus or train. Till date, around 7,200 migrant workers from Yamunanagar have been sent to their home states, including 517 from Bihar, 6,518 from Uttar Pradesh, three from Ladakh, 19 students and labourers from Jammu and Kashmir, 130 from Uttarakhand. They were sent back home free of cost through buses and railways as per the orders of Haryana government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-migrant-is-crossing-yamuna-river-to-enter-uttar-pradesh/story-ZR7ihBraoFXQT9BrKUl1RO.html
16-05-2020||City||Two more cases reported in Himachal; state’s tally hits 78||Two more people were tested positive for Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh on Saturday, taking the state’s tally to 78. The fresh cases were reported from Hamirpur and Kangra.The 36-year-old patient is a resident of Techch village in Barsar subdivision of Hamirpur. He had returned from Mumbai on May 13 in a taxi along with two others, Hamirpur DC Harikesh Meena said.He was quarantined at an institutional facility and his sample was sent for testing on May 14, which came out as positive. The patient has been shifted to a covid care centre at Haroli. His primary contacts are being traced.His co-travellers, hailing from Patrail village in Nadaun subdivision have also been quarantined.Meanwhile, Dandru panchayat has been declared a containment zone and all activities in its jurisdiction seized till further orders.The second case was reported from Maned village of Nurpur subdivision in Kangra. The 30-year-old had returned from Gurugram on May 8 in a taxi along with one other person and was put under home quarantine, said Kangra DC Rakesh Kumar Prajapati.The patient showed mild symptoms and has now been shifted to covid care centre at Baijnath. His four family members have been quarantined and contact tracing is being done.36 ACTIVE CASES IN STATEWith this, the active cases in Himachal Pradesh have gone up to 36. Himachal has witnessed a spurt in coronavirus cases since May 4, with 38 people testing positive.Two people have died due to the virus during the corresponding period. A 52-year-old man from Hamirpur had died on Friday due to acute respiratory distress while being taken to Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College at Nerchowk in Mandi district.Till date, the state has recorded a total of 78 cases, including three fatalities. So far, 35 people have recovered in state.Kangra is the worst-hit district with 20 cases followed by Una with 18 cases and Chamba with 12 cases. Nine cases have been reported in Solan, eight in Hamirpur, four each in Sirmaur and Bilaspur, and three in Mandi. Till date, 16,431 people have been tested for Covid-19 in the state and over 21,000 are under active surveillance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-more-cases-reported-in-himachal-state-s-tally-hits-78/story-pXEgBrNXyWmhwcLXd0BP5L.html
16-05-2020||City||Himachalis stranded abroad should contact resident commissioner of Himachal Bhawan in Delhi: DGP||Director-general of police (DGP) SR Mardi on Saturday said that Himachali residents who are stranded in foreign countries wanting to return can contact the resident commissioner of Himachal Bhawan in New Delhi as he has been made the nodal officer. This was stated by the DGP in a video message.Mardi said that people who will enter the state from red zone areas will be kept in institutional quarantine. If their coronavirus results are found negative after six to seven days then these people will be allowed to go home where they will be kept in quarantine.He said that many people are violating home quarantine norms and have been advised to obey the orders. DGP said that some landlords are pressuring their tenants to pay rent and are also asking for advance payment of rent for at least a year which is not right. Landlords should understand the present situation which has arisen due to coronavirus pandemic, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachalis-stranded-abroad-should-contact-resident-commissioner-of-himachal-bhawan-in-delhi-dgp/story-tLB678gu6syobDTKpf4q0K.html
16-05-2020||Gurugram||Hyena found in Mandawar with critical injuries remains in veterinary care||A five-year-old male striped hyena, which suffered critical injuries after finding itself entangled in a wire snare trap on the outskirts of Gurugram village, underwent a two-hour-long surgery on Friday by veterinarians of a Delhi-based wildlife rescue organisation. The animal is under watch at Wildlife Rescue SOS’s transit facility in Gurugram. The animal was found by locals in Sohna’s Mandawar village on May 12, and rescued by members of the NGO and the district wildlife department. Dr Abhishek Kumar Singh, veterinary officer, Wildlife SOS, said, “The hyena was severely injured by the wire snare. We were worried about internal haemorrhage. We treated the animal for deep lacerations and profuse bleeding from tongue and mouth. The snare could have been fatal. The hyena is currently under observation and we are administering painkillers and antibiotics.”Mandawar, where the animal was found, is part of a known wildlife corridor which runs through the Aravalli mountain range from Gurugram to Sariska, in Rajasthan. Several leopard sightings from the area have been reported in recent years, with the most notable incident that of a leopard being beaten to death by locals in the presence of wildlife authorities in 2016. Rajender Parsad Dangi, divisional wildlife officer, Gurugram, said, “We rushed the injured hyena to the Wildlife SOS Centre for urgent medical care. We will investigate the matter of the snare trap. The offender will be booked under the provisions of the Wildlife Protection Act.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/hyena-found-in-mandawar-with-critical-injuries-remains-in-veterinary-care/story-wiHMQUJNk9AqB754bYnPAN.html
16-05-2020||City||Amid labour crunch, Punjab agriculture dept faces herculean task ahead of paddy sowing season||With less than a month left for the paddy sowing season to start in Punjab, it is going to be a herculean task for the state’s agriculture department to arrange all logistics in time.Amid an acute shortage of migrant labour due to the exodus triggered by the Covid-19 outbreak in the state, the department has to arrange transplantation machines and local labour for farmers this Kharif season.The state government has already advanced paddy sowing season by 10 days — from June 20 to June 10.Kahan Singh Pannu, agriculture secretary, said work has been divided into phases to deal with labour shortage. “First, the department has decided to reduce at least 3 lakh hectare area under paddy cultivation from 29.3 lakh hectare last year to 26.3 lakh hectare this year,” he said. “Second, the target area under direct seeding of rice has been set at 4 lakh hectare, which is 20% more than that last year.”By shifting around 7 lakh hectare area from traditional paddy, the department is now making other arrangements, including transplantation machines and labour for sowing paddy over around 22 lakh hectares, he said.Pannu said the government has already roped in “best manufacturers” of farm implements to meet the demand of transplantation machines.“Manufacturing has been slowed down due to the lockdown, but we are hopeful to get 200 such machines before the start of the season. The state is already equipped with more than 300 such machines,” he said.Meanwhile, the agriculture department has estimated 12.5 lakh labourers will be required to sow paddy in 30 days.On labour crunch, Pannu said they are going to engage local labour to augment the permanent agriculture labour working with farmers. 10% paddy area to be shifted to cotton, maizeSutantar Kumar Airi, director, agriculture, Punjab, said that of the 10% area to be shifted from paddy cultivation, the department is expected to divert 1.6 lakh hectare to cotton, one lakh hectare to maize and the remaining to basmati varieties. “We are reviewing the ground situation on daily basis and are preparing district-wise requirement lists. We have been appealing to farmers at block level to go for crop diversification so as to compensate for the labour shortage,” Airi said. Meanwhile, an official, who did not wish to be named, said pushing farmers towards crop diversification is going to be a major challenge for the department.“Farmers have always been reluctant to stop the cultivation of water-guzzling paddy in the past. To promote diversification, the government needs to ensure remunerative prices for maize and cotton,” the official said.Sowing cost to increase with limited resources Jagmohan Singh, general secretary of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Dakaunda), said the cost of sowing paddy is going to increase as farmers have to shell out more money to arrange local labour.“The migrants charge between ₹2,500-3,000 per acre for sowing paddy while Punjab’s local labour demand between ₹ 5,000-5,500 per acre for the same job,” he said.Singh said the Centre and state government should announce some financial support to farmers beside providing the required logistics.“Though the state government advanced paddy sowing by 10 days, the collegium of 10 farm unions have demanded to start the season from June 1, so as to meet the demand of local labour and transplantation machinery. The farmers also want the Centre to increase the minimum support price for paddy,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amid-labour-crunch-punjab-agriculture-dept-faces-herculean-task-ahead-of-paddy-sowing-season/story-r8QPoUf2JOQhYbIJAw5rCK.html
16-05-2020||Gurugram||Two held for trying to ferry 53 migrants in a canter to W Bengal||Two men were arrested for allegedly trying to ferry migrant workers from the city to West Bengal in a canter without the requisite movement passes in Ashok Vihar Phase-3 on Friday late night. The police said the accused persons had asked for ₹1.25 lakh from 53 migrant workers, which included women and children, to ferry them to Malda district in West Bengal.According to the police, the incident was reported around 1am when the police received a tip-off that two men were asking migrants to board the canter near Chotu Ram Chowk.The two accused persons have been identified as Jai Prakash, a native of Kanpur, and Raviful, a native of Malda, West Bengal. The police said the duo had fixed the price for transporting people to West Bengal at ₹1.25 lakh.Ved Parkash, station house officer (SHO), Sector 5 police station, said, “A police team rushed to spot and arrested the duo after they could not produce the movement passes. The migrant workers were taken to a government relief centre in Sector 15,” said SHO.A case was registered against the suspects under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code(IPC) and Section 51(b) of Disaster Management Act at Sector 5 police station on Saturday, said the police.On Thursday, the police had arrested two men in separate cases for allegedly trying to ferry passengers to other states without carrying movement passes. In the first case, police had arrested a bus owner and driver, who were looking for passengers on MG Road and trying to take them to Jharkhand. In the second case, the police had arrested a canter driver, who had come to Gurugram to drop off a banana shipment and was looking to ferry passengers in the cargo space of the canter to Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/two-held-for-trying-to-ferry-53-migrants-in-a-canter-to-w-bengal/story-WZJmF4cYPwQ66ILFkP0YnL.html
16-05-2020||Gurugram||Ahead of Lockdown 4.0, shop owners, retailers want Covid-19 restrictions to be relaxed||Shop owners and retailers in the city, who have been badly impacted by the ongoing lockdown to counter the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, want the government to announce relaxations as businesses have been severely impacted and many of them are unable to pay salaries to their employees and rents to their property owners. The Retailers Association of India (RAI) has now written to Haryana chief minister, seeking relief from the curbs that have been imposed on business activities.Business owners said that opening of shops only twice a week that was allowed in Lockdown 3.0 is not enough for sustainable retail operations as a large majority of buyers prefer to remain indoors. “Shops selling non-essential products and services open only twice a week and this has hindered businesses badly. It is time that we start living with Covid 19 and allow economy to revive,” said Pankaj Tomar, a business owners, who said that paying rentals has become a difficult proposition.Gurugram has around 40 malls and shopping centres spread across the city and all of them have been closed since the authorities announced the lockdown on March 24. The city has been designated as an orange zone but the restrictions imposed on people and business have been strict due to its close proximity to Delhi and the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the district.The Retailers Association of India (RAI) , which represents over 13,000 retail businesses in the country, said that over 3 million people in Haryana are employed in this industry particularly in Gurugram and the business has been affectedly badly.“At least 3 million people are involved in retail jobs across Haryana and particularly in Gurugram, which is a retail hub with over 35 to 40 malls, which are visited by people from all across the National Capital Region(NCR). Opening of the malls and other establishments is crucial to create demand as otherwise the supply chain and manufacturing would not be able to function. We have written to the Haryana government to open up retail with adequate safeguards, such as social distancing,” said Kumar Rajagopalan, CEO, RAI.The letter written by RAI to the Haryana government on Monday said, “We are writing to request you to permit opening of mall in all zones except containment zone under a mandated standard operating procedure(SOP). The mall eco-system is critical to economic revival and employment generation in manufacturing and retail sector. Malls act as the front-end for 45% of India’s organised retail (sic).”The association further said that over 100 million jobs have been affected by the closure of malls and organised retail. Opening of malls will declog the inventory and supply chain of the manufacturing system. It also said that almost 12% of the electronic industry has occupancy in malls, 20% of malls are occupied by food and beverages industry, around 39% of footwear retails through malls.Meanwhile, several shopkeepers in the HSVP markets in the city also said that they were struggling to pay rent as businesses were shut. “We have had no business for the last one month and the government should announce some relief in rentals for tenants,” said a shop owner on condition of anonymity.A senior Haryana government official, when asked about the matter said that opening of malls and other establishments depends on the directions that would be issued by ministry of home affairs(MHA) for Lockdown 4.0, which starts from May 18. “The directions have to come from Centre,” he said, preferring anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/ahead-of-lockdown-4-0-shop-owners-retailers-want-covid-19-restrictions-to-be-relaxed/story-eVbFJR2406D7B2F6EcNUlN.html
16-05-2020||City||Haryana: Intensive surveillance in urban slums of 5 districts to contain Covid-19 spread||Gurugram: In a bid to control the spread of coronavirus in the highly affected districts of Haryana -- Gurugram, Faridabad, Jhajjar, Panipat and Sonepat – the state health department has initiated intensive surveillance in the urban slums of these districts. Going by the government data, Jhajjar slums have reported the maximum number of Covid-19 cases at 75 (total cases 90), followed by Faridabad which has seen 34 positive cases (total cases 144) from these areas. While not a single Covid-19 case (total cases 193) has been reported from Gurugram slums, 14 people in Panipat (total cases 36) and four in Sonepat (total cases 134) slums have tested positive for the deadly virus.Interestingly, Gurugram has the highest population of 1.1 million residing in the urban slums, according to the data shared by the state health department. According to health officials, about 500 health workers have screened at least one million people from March onwards through door-to-door surveillance in the urban slums of Gurugram and found 3,000 people with influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory illness (SARI). Of the 3,000 people, samples of at least 459 have been collected for reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test and 363 for antibody test using rapid testing kits (RTKs). The data shows that 193 Covid-19 cases have been reported in Gurugram till now, but none of them is from urban slums.Faridabad has a population of more than one million in urban slums. The officials said that mostly ASHA and auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM) workers, who are doing surveillance in slums, are also focusing on immunization programme of children and pre/post-natal care of women.Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary, health department, said that the focus is on densely populated clusters in urban areas to prevent the contagious disease from spreading. “All across the country, Covid-19 cases are being reported from the urban areas. Gurugram and Faridabad are highly urbanized with a large population living in urban slums. They are mostly domestic helps, workers and drivers, who work in different parts of the city.”“Their intensive screening and testing is crucial to prevent spread of Covid-19 cases in districts where cases are increasing,” said Arora.According to him, the surveillance has increased considering positive cases from urban slums could increase as these are highly congested areas where maintaining social distance is quite difficult. The health officials said that the state has initially witnessed a wave of coronavirus cases with a travel history. Later, cases related to attendees of Tablighi Jamaat came in and of late people with links to Delhi were found Covid-19 positive. In Gurugram’s Khandsa mandi, at least 25 people were found positive who had direct or indirect links to the national capital’s Azadpur mandi, a Covid-19 hot spot. Likewise, it affected Jhajjar, Sonepat, Panipat and Faridabad.“It is the third round of surveillance in urban slums to identify potential Covid-19 cases to break the chain of transmission. We have been doing random sampling in affected areas targeting different population group to trace cases,” Arora said, adding that despite surge in the number of positive cases, none of the districts from Haryana is among the 30 worst-affected districts across the country.On Saturday, the Union ministry of health and family welfare held a meeting with senior officials from the 30 municipal areas which are contributing at least 80% of the country’s Covid -19 cases. These areas are in states like Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Punjab and Odisha.“None of our districts are as badly affected as Indore, Ahmedabad or Mumbai. Timely tracing and testing of cases has helped us,” said Arora.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-intensive-surveillance-in-urban-slums-of-5-districts-to-contain-covid-19-spread/story-eJBXBWSM4gYyAZPFuWANYM.html
16-05-2020||Gurugram||Faridabad increases containment zones to 26||The Faridabad district administration, on Saturday, increased the number of containment zones in the district from 14 to 26, with new additions in the residential areas. The district administration added 14 new areas to the revised list of containment zones, while two zones in the district were de-notified after no Covid-19 cases were reported from these areas in the last 28 days.Four new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) were reported on Saturday, bringing the total count of people who have been tested positive in the district to 144. Officials said 75 people have been discharged so far and five have succumbed to the infection. The rest are undergoing treatment.The newly added containment zones in the city are: areas of Sanjay Colony in Sector 23, Sector 23 A, plot numbers 1136 to 2982 of Sector 62, Adarsh Colony, pockets of EWS plots of Sector 18 Housing Board Colony, Fatehpur Chandila, village Mahola, village Sihi, Shiv Sharda Colony in Ballabhgarh, Sector 9, Sector 17, Sector 10, Indira Colony. Lanes adjacent to Railway Road and the sector-dividing roads of sectors 22 and 24 have also been categorised as containment zones.Yashpal Yadav, deputy commissioner, Faridabad, said that at least one Covid-19 case has been reported in the last four days from these new areas. “Most of the persons recently infected with SARS-CoV-2 (the virus that causes Covid-19) were people who had visited Delhi. Most of them had contracted the virus after coming in contact with a Covid-19 patient in Azadpur Sabji Mandi or those who had returned from Delhi with the infection,” he said.Yadav said they have adopted a new method on Friday for designating a containment zones after a meeting with health department and police teams.“Earlier, we used to take a three-kilometre area as containment zone but now we are covering a radius of 500 metres from the epicentre of the infection and are conducting screening, sampling, and testing of suspected cases residing in that area. We have assigned tasks to all the ASHA (Accredited Social Health Activist) workers and each one of them has been asked to collect 25 samples,” he said.The administration is also taking details from the chemist shop regarding the sale of fever, flu, and cough medicines and have been asked to take down the mobile number and residential address of each customer.Faridabad had sealed its borders with Delhi last month, prohibiting the entry of all commuters, including essential workers, until May 17 and the police said the plan is likely to remain the same for this month.KK Rao, Faridabad’s commissioner of police, said that they have increased police deployment in the containment zones and only essential supply is allowed in the area. “We hold regular meetings in a day with the health department and district administration to discuss the ongoing plan of action and preparation. Also, to check the progress of cases and check the data compiled by the people who return from the field in the evening. We all are connected through a WhatsApp group and police teams are sent with the health workers so that they can easily conduct the sampling ,” he said.The deputy commissioner further said, “We had sent the samples of 6,673 people, of which 144 have tested positive and the results of 684 are awaited. At least 59 people are currently hospitalised.”The infected people have been admitted to the ESIC hospital, the officials said, adding that at least 7,4341 people are currently under home quarantine in the district and 5,897 people are on surveillance for Influenza-like illness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/faridabad-increases-containment-zones-to-26/story-CN2VTNSGKhEj95pWzTJTOL.html
16-05-2020||Gurugram||GMDA finds 48 sewer lines illegally connected to surface drains, seeks police action||During a two-day stormwater drain cleaning drive, which began on Thursday, the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) found as many as 48 points where sewer lines from the neighbouring residential and commercial establishments have been connected to the surface drains illegally.The drive was conducted in the city along all the master roads. The GMDA disconnected 24 out of the 48 illegal connections during the drive itself. Later, the authority wrote letters to the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) and the Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) to trace the source of these 48 lines and initiate action accordingly.The drive came in the backdrop of a survey by a GMDA team last week, in which the team found flooding in the stormwater drains in sectors such as 37, 23, 44, 45, 47, 51, 57, Udyog Vihar, Pace City and other areas.Pradeep Kumar, GMDA chief engineer, said, “Stormwater drains should not carry water at all unless there is flooding due to rains. The poor quality of water, along with foul smell and holes connected through sewer lines indicated that illegal sewer connections have been established from residential and commercial areas of the city.”Soon after the nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 25, VS Kundu, CEO, GMDA, had issued instructions to field officials engaged in master services, such as water supply and sewers, to do regular disinfection of treatment plants, machines, sewer drains, cleanliness, desilting and adhere to all the requisite Covid-19 guidelines. Kumar said, “Since Covid-19 cases are on the rise, we are taking utmost care to keep drains clean and in a hygienic condition, as per the top officials’ instructions. Drains belong to us, but the source of sewer lines belong to MCG and HSIIDC areas. We have written to them to disconnect them and initiate police action. So far, 24 lines have been disconnected.”GMDA also held a meeting with the officials of MCG and HSIIDC on Saturday. Satyawan Singh, the MCG superintending engineer, said, “We are disconnecting these lines and will also initiate police action against the offenders after we trace their source.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gmda-finds-48-sewer-lines-illegally-connected-to-surface-drains-seeks-police-action/story-simFFCqaInoujJoZ1NVhSN.html
16-05-2020||City||Medical tourism companies turn to telemedicine in wake of Covid-19||Gurugram: In a bid to restart the flow of revenue, cash-strapped medical tourism (or ‘medical value travel’) companies in Gurugram and the National Capital Region (NCR) have turned their attention to telemedicine services, with some having already begun telephonic consultations with patients in west Asia, Uzbekistan and Myanmar. Telemedicine refers to the delivery and facilitation of health and health-related services including medical care, provider and patient education, health information services and self-care, via telecom and digital communication technologies, a practice that has gained significance globally over the past few years with advances in technology. On March 25, India issued the first central guidelines on telemedicine, which were gazette notified on May 16. While these guidelines are intended for telemedicine being practised within India, medical tourism companies are now using telemedicine services to retain patients living overseas, who are no longer able to travel to India to seek treatment.Gurugram, according to MVT [medical value travel] company owners, is India’s largest medical tourism hub, where close to 50% of NCR’s medical tourists seek treatment. With business dependent on international travel, and with no new patients expected to arrive in the country anytime soon, industry owners say telemedicine is their next best option to keep business afloat.Vinay Aggarwal, proprietor of Shinon Collaborative Consultancy, an MVT firm operating in Gurugram, said, “MVT companies that have offices overseas have already started interacting with governments in other countries, seeking permission to start telemedicine services. So far we have been able to roll out these services to our clients in Myanmar and Uzbekistan, after getting our doctors accredited with Myanmar Medical Council and the Uzbeki health ministry.” Amit Sharma, founder and CEO of eEXpedise Healthcare, another MVT company operating in Gurugram, said they have initiated such services in Dubai, with doctors who are accredited by the Dubai Health Authority. “But it has been a slow process. Speaking to departments in other countries, getting their permissions in order, it all takes time. But we see a huge demand for telehealth services in west Asian and African countries, which is where our focus is now shifting,” Sharma said.FISCAL STIMULUS TO PROVIDE MUCH-NEEDED LIQUIDITYIn the days immediately after the lockdown, MVT proprietors were sceptical of reviving the industry without a dedicated bailout package. “However, a few positive developments have happened since then,” according to Sharma. Sharma explained that under the fiscal stimulus package announced by the Centre, MVT companies will be able to avail of the same benefits as other micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), such as those involved in manufacturing. “The service sector, which medical tourism is a part of, will also be allowed to avail of distress and non-collateral loans. This will be a major liquidity lifeline for us while we adapt our businesses to the constraints of Covid-19,” he said.A senior director at the Federation of Indian Chambers of and Industry (Ficci), who is directly overseeing the Indian MVT sector (which is valued at between US$5 and 6 billion), said, “We are making a representation on Monday to the ministries of finance and ministry of commerce and industry to recognise MVT as an independent MSME industry. Companies are still straddled with the cost of wages, office space and so on. Until newer revenue models are established, MVT should be allowed the same benefits as the manufacturing sector, seeing as it brings in a substantial amount of foreign exchange in the country.” The Ficci official, seeking anonymity, also concurred that telemedicine could be a viable business model for MVT companies during the Covid-19 pandemic. “Preliminary consultations and even post-operative care, to an extent, can be carried out over the phone for overseas patients. It is necessary to assist these enterprises in making the shift to telehealth services,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/medical-tourism-companies-turn-to-telemedicine-in-wake-of-covid-19/story-YA0OpXnbjgmvZfsRoHObRP.html
16-05-2020||Mumbai||884 new coronavirus cases in Mumbai, 41 deaths||As many as 884 new COVID-19 cases were recorded in Mumbai on Saturday, taking the tally of cases in the city to 18,396, while death toll due to the pandemic rose to 696 with 41 new deaths.238 patients were discharged from city hospitals during the day, said the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).Of 18,396 cases, 4,806 have recovered so far.The BMC also said that of the 41 deaths recorded on Saturday, 14 had taken place between May 7 and 12.26 of them were male and 15 female. 24 of 41 patients had comorbidities, two were below the age of 40, 27 were above 60 while 12 were between the ages of40 and 60 .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/884-new-coronavirus-cases-in-mumbai-41-deaths/story-LsOWKpCw5Hvcpo92dmUReM.html
16-05-2020||Gurugram||Children connect with their roots through online storytelling sessions||Dressed in an Avengers T-shirt, Aariv Prakash, a 9-year-old resident of Sector 50 comes on the camera with his mother, Monisha Prakash, to narrate the tale of Kalpavriksh, a mythical wishing tree. They start with a jingle and then introduce their first character, Babu, a turban-wearing stuffed minion walking across the desert. The mother-son duo then follows his journey of wishes as he travels across the desert. Almost once a week they come together to narrate folktales on their YouTube channel to break the monotony of the lockdown. “In this folktale from Rajasthan, we used a minion as a puppet. My son said let’s use him as a character; so we dressed him up in a turban,” said Prakash, an educator. She adds that the idea behind the videos is to engage children and to help them think creatively in terms of telling stories. The mother-son duo has so far created over 10 videos on their social media handles. Their channel includes tales of Akbar-Birbal, Tenali Raman, animals and popular folktales children hear in their childhood.For the longest time, grandparents and extended family members have been responsible for telling stories. During these sessions, stories they grew up with would get passed on orally to children before bedtime or during vacations. In an urban setup, where nuclear families reside in large numbers, the absence of these usual storytellers has prompted parents to look for alternatives. “There are two basic reasons parents opt for storytelling sessions. First is a functional reason. These story sessions are meant to keep the children engaged. The second reason is to make them learn. Parents want their children to learn and assimilate the traditional value system,” said Narayan Parasuram, the co-founder of Karadi Tales. Parasuram conducted an online storytelling session in association with Gurgaon Moms last week that was attended by close to 30 children. He shared the tale of “The Foolish Crow”. The publishing house says that it has seen a spike in its storytelling sessions and has been conducting them on a daily basis since the lockdown began. These sessions conducted by celebrities, authors and illustrators come under its new segment called “Katha with Karadi”. These sessions are also seeing a renewed push for introducing regional folklore, Indian fables and contemporary stories to children. Prakash adds children these days are exposed to a wide number of gadgets where they get exposed to modern and international stories. However, amid those, stories that used to be narrated by grandmothers are easily getting lost. “Through our sessions, we are trying to get children accustomed to stories that are based on or rooted in our Indian culture,” said Prachi Gambhir Dutta, founder of Kal-Aakaar Collective Trust, that hosts prop-based story dramas for children on its YouTube channel, BeeMee. One of the latest videos published by the collective is the adventure of four frogs who ventured out to see what lies at the end of a rainbow. “The Four Frog song that we shared is actually a very old Haryanvi poem that my aunt taught us when we were very small. I have been listening to it and it stayed with me. It was only last year that I converted it to a Hindi-English song for children,” said Dutta.Experts agree that most often, the push by parents and school for stories in English means that regional tales get sidelined. These sessions often use regional terms for animals like kauwa (crow) and mendak (frog). Bilingual narratives, they agree, are faring relatively well in outreach as it connects better with children.“We need to attempt storytelling in such a way and in such language that it becomes universally acceptable by children. With a bilingual approach, we are trying to reach out to a larger audience because at the end of the day English is also a foreign language that we have to learn. Bilingual songs and stories help a child relate to the story and connect with it better,” added Dutta. The sessions also offer additive engagement activities, such as creating your own props, puppet-making, enactment of storylines, singalongs and others. However, these sessions are not just restricted to children. Adults too are attending storytelling sessions, seeing them as a chance to break away from usual entertainment. These sessions stay away from fables, folklores and preachy tales but base their stories on real-life situations. Monika Agarwal is a soft skills expert, who is using storytelling sessions to share tales that suggest societal reconditioning. On Mother’s Day, Agarwal narrated the story of a modern working mother who had to go without breakfast but stopped short of telling her children “I am not hungry” when she noticed just two apples remaining in the fridge. “These stories are mostly around day-to-day situations. We need to show our children that we are also humans and that we also feel hungry so that they are not conditioned into thinking that mothers can be taken for granted. I want to free our minds from ideas that are no longer relevant to the current world,” said Agarwal, a resident of Sector 49.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/children-connect-with-their-roots-through-online-storytelling-sessions/story-AcClqfuVjQczxN8kEnIfiK.html
16-05-2020||City||Wildbuzz: Bearing a tooth ache||Having rescued over 600 Sloth bears from the barbaric ‘dancing bear’ practice, the NGO, Wildlife SOS, found them unfit for release into the wilderness as they had suffered mutilation, physical and psychological trauma, and chronic medical complications. Their delicate muzzle had been pierced by hot iron pokers and teeth forcibly removed. Dental infections, rotting teeth and mouth ulcerations were common among ‘dancing bears’. Dental pain, as those among us who suffer it can testify, is the emperor of common maladies as it festers among countless nerves and blood vessels.However, according to Kartick Satyanarayan, CEO, Wildlife SOS, “Veterinary dentistry is a specialisation badly needed in India as only a handful of specialists are working in this area.” Realising that dental surgery would lend a new life to suffering bears by effecting a remarkable change in their temperament and making them healthier and more active, the NGO went the extra mile by having their veterinarians trained by UK experts.That expertise transformed the lives of the bears retained at the NGO’s rescue centres as they undergo regular dental procedures such as root canal treatment in cases of minimal damage, tooth extraction in cases of irreversible damage such as infected abscesses, and dental scaling to clean tartar build-up. Geriatric bears (older than 15 years) undergo regular dental scaling as neglect can lead to long-term damage to enamel and gums, making it very difficult for older bears to consume food.“Recently, a bear named Durga upon receiving a root canal treatment showed improvement fairly quickly. Evidently no longer in pain, Durga is much more energetic and is back to munching on watermelons and dates!” Wildlife SOS spokesperson Arinita Sandilya told this writer.SUNFLOWERS ON A MOTHY NIGHTIf butterflies are unchained flowers of our sunny gardens, moths are their mysterious counterparts designed to haunt the dark. On a sunflower at about 8pm in our Chandigarh garden, I observed a moth whose wings seemed touched by the lightness of lilac, evoking comparison to clouds doused in the goodbye glows of sunset. It was as if this beautiful creature had flown to the clouds in twilight and embraced that colour before taking wing on earth below to feed on sunflower nectar when the sun was no longer around.I sought the expertise of the Hong Kong-based Dr Roger Kendrick, who is regarded as an authority on Asian moths, and Prof Jagbir Singh Kirti, head of zoology department, Punjabi University, Patiala. They were kind enough to identify this mostly unseen creature of Chandigarh as a species named, Thysanoplusia orichalcea, and distinguished it from the closely related and similar looking species, Thysanoplusia intermixta. Their expertise in distinguishing such cryptic species was revelatory!Prof Kirti recalls trapping this moth species in Chandigarh in 1979 while he was an MSc student at the Panjab University. Having worked extensively on moths across India, he discovered a 100 moth species and recently donated 10,000 specimens of his lifetime work to augment the collections of the Zoological Survey of India, Kolkata.Unlike bird species, which enjoy common Punjabi names, moths are little seen and thus are generically known as ‘Patangas’ in the vernacular. “While we know that honeybees are pollinators, moths perform the same task by sucking nectar from flowers and juice from fruits at night, thus gathering pollen and dispersing it. This moth species is commonly known in English as the Soyabean looper as it is regarded as a pest on that crop when it is a caterpillar feeding voraciously on Soyabean leaves. However, moths predate our crops in evolutionary history and were forced to shift to eating crops because humanity destroyed their natural habitats. So, they have suffered a negative connotation in popular consciousness for no fault of their own,” Prof Kirti told this writer. vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/wildbuzz-bearing-a-tooth-ache/story-dfLH5rUEGCxv29BBm3VFZP.html
16-05-2020||City||Vashi APMC markets to open in phases from Monday||Vashi APMC markets, which have been shut since May 11, will reopen from May 18 in phases and with restrictions. The market was sanitised during the shutdown and health check-ups were conducted on around 6,000 APMC workers, traders and transporters.Shivaji Daund, Konkan divisional commissioner, said, “Of the five wholesale markets at APMC, the vegetables, grains and spices markets will open on Monday. On Thursday, the fruit and onion-potato markets will open.”APMC markets had been shut after a number of Covid-19 cases were reported in Navi Mumbai due to the crowding at the market.Daund said, “Only 150 vehicles will be allowed in the vegetable market, 300 vehicles in the grains market and 200 vehicles in spices market per day.” He added they are developing an online system to enable traders to sell produce to retailers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/vashi-apmc-markets-to-open-in-phases-from-monday/story-KtqyqcPzi2h0bQL7BMRO7M.html
16-05-2020||Chandigarh||Unidentified men booked for kidnapping, assaulting Dhanas man||A 22-year-old man was allegedly kidnapped and assaulted by unidentified men in Dhanas on Friday night, police said. On the basis of victim Balwant’s brother, Deepak, Sarangpur police registered a case under Sections 365 (kidnapping) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) against unidentified persons, who are on the run. Deepak alleged that Balwant was kidnapped by the unidentified men over some old rivalry. They picked him up around 10pm and assaulted him inside a sedan car. They returned on Saturday morning and threw him out of a moving car outside his house.Meanwhile, police are looking into the brothers’ claims as they were also recently booked in an assault case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/unidentified-men-booked-for-kidnapping-assaulting-dhanas-man/story-oKTLeEwR0kmQH2G9Wj6QcI.html
16-05-2020||Chandigarh||With 33 fresh infections, Haryana tally climbs to 887||Thirty-three more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Haryana on Saturday, taking the total number of cases in the state to 887. The recovery rate in the state also rose to 58 % with discharge of 50 patients in a day.Of the fresh infections, maximum cases at 14 are from Gurugram while four cases each were reported from Faridabad and Nuh, three each from Jhajjar and Rewari, two each from Sonepat and Palwal and one from Fatehabad. Senior doctors said most of these cases are contacts of already infected persons having a travel history to Delhi. Two undertrial prisoners test positive in RewariTwo undertrial prisoners, who had come out on bail two days ago from Gurugram’s Bhondsi jail, are among three new cases from Rewari. After their report came out positive, 13 people, including the judge who had sent them to jail, were put under home quarantine.Staff nurse among two cases in SonepatIn Sonepat, a staff nurse of the BPS medical college for Women at Khanpur Kalan and a man, who had returned from Mumbai, tested positive for the virus. In Jhajjar, two sons of an infected Bahadurgarh man working with the Delhi Police have tested positive. A 23-year old married woman has tested positive in Tohana area of Fatehabad district. Doctors said the woman along with a friend, driver and relative had travelled in a taxi from Agra on May 13. Rohtak reports four casesFour people, linked to Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak, are among those who have tested positive. PGIMS spokesperson Varun Arora the fresh cases include two sweepers posted at the isolation ward, a driver and wife of a doctor. “All of them have been sent to the isolation ward at PGIMS,” he added.No active cases in Yamunanagar, AmbalaYamunanagar and Ambala districts have become Covid-19 free with all patients getting cured and discharged on Saturday. Yamunanagar had eight patients and Ambala had reported 42 positive cases. Hisar, Sirsa report one case eachOne person each from Hisar and Sirsa districts have also tested positive for Covid-19.Sirsa chief medical officer Dr Surender Nain said, “A 56-year-old man from Sirsa, who had recently returned from Delhi, has tested positive. The colony has been declared a containment zone and contact tracing has started.”Hisar CMO Dr Yogesh Sharma said a 56-year-old man has tested positive in Hisar’s village. The man works as security guard in Delhi and had returned a few days ago. Three of his family members are quarantined. Contact tracing has also started.”50 patients discharged in a dayThe state’s recovery rate rose to 58 % with 50 more patients getting discharged on Saturday. Of these, 23 were discharged from Gurugram, six each from Sonepat and Panipat, four each from Karnal and Jhajjar, two each from Sirsa and Faridabad and one each from Nuh, Ambala and Panchkula.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/with-33-fresh-infections-haryana-tally-climbs-to-887/story-BljTBWGVKQcgWWuaoSATqJ.html
16-05-2020||City||Liquor scam in Sonepat took place under political patronage: MLA Kiran Chaudhary||Senior Congress leader and Tosham MLA Kiran Chaudhary on Saturday hit out at the BJP-JJP coalition government in Haryana and said the liquor scam in Sonepat’s Kharkhuada took place under political patronage. Chaudhary alleged that the government had issued 23 permits to take out liquor from excise and taxation godowns from March 26 to 31 when vends were closed in the state.“The sale of illegal liquor continued in the state after the government announced shutting down of liquor vends on March 25. It took place on behest of political and administrative patronage. The government should order an inquire to count the bottles at the godowns of the excise and taxation department,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/liquor-scam-in-sonepat-took-place-under-political-patronage-mla-kiran-chaudhary/story-FnTztEthU5Og44pOcF1plI.html
16-05-2020||City||Two undertrial prisoners test positive for Covid-19 in Rewari||Two undertrial prisoners, who had come out on bail two days ago from Gurugram’s Bhondsi jail, tested positive for Covid-19 in Rewari on Saturday.Rewari civil surgeon Sushil Mahi said police had arrested the two accused from Mamariya village on May 12 under Sections 147(rioting),149, 323, 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) and 188 of the Indian Penal code.“A day after, they were produced before the court of Karuna Sharma, judicial magistrate first class-cum duty magistrate in Rewari. The health department had collected their samples on the same day at a government hospital. The court had sent them to Bhondsi jail in Gurugram on May 13 and they were out on bail the next day. Their Covid report came out positive on Saturday,” he said.13 people put under home quarantineAs many as 13 people, including Karuna Sharma, judicial magistrate first class-cum duty magistrate and eight other employees of the court, who were present during the hearing are under home quarantine, officials said.“Four police personnel of Khol police station who had escorted the accused from the court to Bhondsi jail have also been sent in home quarantine,” officials said.Rewari civil surgeon Sushil Mahi said the undertrial prisoners are admitted at an isolation ward of the civil hospital.“We will trace their travel history and take samples of their contacts. As of now, we have collected samples of their family members, police personnels and court employees, who came in their contact. The Gurugram health authorities have been informed about the positive report and they were asked to collect samples of their contacts at Bhondsi jail,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-undertrial-prisoners-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-rewari/story-L0qKCx1EjEGMPjGt007pBP.html
16-05-2020||Delhi||Parents allege GK school overcharging them, Delhi High Court asks for fee break-up||The Delhi High Court has directed KR Mangalam World School in Greater Kailash-2 to file an affidavit indicating the break-up of the amount mentioned under the head tuition fee in its current fee structure. The court passed the direction after a plea was filed by the parents association claiming that the school had been charging exorbitant amount of money despite the Delhi government asking schools not to charge anything beyond the tuition fee during the ongoing lockdown.Justice Jyoti Singh issued notices to the Delhi government and school authorities seeking their response on the plea and posted the matter for further hearing on May 26.The court was hearing a plea by the Parents Association of KR Mangalam World School, who had contended that in the garb of collecting tuition fee, the school was charging hefty fees. The counsel for the parents, advocate Gaurav Bahl, told the court that the school is not willing to give a detailed breakup of amounts mentioned in the fee bills sent to parents. He further submitted that compared to the tuition fee charged for the academic session 2018- 2019, the amount charged in the current bills was higher. Appearing for the school, its counsel Kamal Gupta opposed the arguments and submitted that the school is bound by the guidelines issued by the Delhi government and was following them meticulously and scrupulously. He submitted that the fee bill only reflects tuition fee, which was being charged.He also said that the Annual and the Development Charges, though mentioned in the fee bill, will not be charged, until further orders of the court.Advocate Gautam Narayan, additional standing counsel, said that due to the pandemic the government had issued circulars and made it clear to all the schools under its jurisdiction that any expenses/expenditures other than the tuition fee should not be charged by the school.Following this, the court sought the response of both the Delhi government and school.The school management did not comment despite repeated phone calls and text messages, but its counsel Kamal Gupta, said,“It is unfortunate that despite repeated directions by the court to pay the fees at current rates certain parents for their vested and oblique motives have chosen to defy orders and are holding on to about Rs 4 crore since the last one year. There are only 20 parents trying to mislead other parents, and are also taking association membership fees from them. The association is unregistered so as to save itself from any audit or law whereas the school’s accounts are audited every year.Gupta said that the school had implemented the Seventh Pay Commission recommendations but it was unable to make the new payment to teachers because of some parents.The directorate of education was unavailable for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/parents-allege-gk-school-overcharging-them-hc-asks-for-fee-break-up/story-uRplCeZOwKqDzTwGt0zYcI.html
16-05-2020||City||Liquor theft case: Ex-MLA sent to 14-day judicial custody||A local court on Saturday sent former two-time MLA and the Jannayak Janta Party’s candidate from Kalayat constituency in last assembly election, Satvinder Singh Rana, to 14-day judicial custody for his alleged involvement in liquor theft from a sealed godown in Panipat’s Samalkha.The liquor godown was sealed by the excise and taxation department in 2016 for stocking liquor illegally.Police officials, privy to the investigation, said Rana had cooperated with officials during the two-day police remand and admitted that he is one of the partners in the godown.Officials said the liquor stolen from the sealed godown in Samalkha was sold in four states and Rana along with his associate Ishwar Singh was involved in the theft. Some locals had also stolen the liquor from the godown during the lockdown.In-charge of crime investigation agency of Panipat police, Deepak Kumar said, “Police will now have to investigate how Rana and Ishwar got the keys of the godown even when it was sealed by the excise and taxation department.” “We will take help from excise department to investigate the allegations. Notices will be served to the excise officials to join the investigation,” he added.The godown was sealed after excise and taxation department detected irregularities and fined co-owners Ishwar of Shamri village and Rana with Rs 2.22 crore. On April 28, police had registered an FIR against unknown persons on a complaint filed by assistant excise and taxation officer Rajesh Rohila for theft of around 4,700 liquor boxes from the godown. On May 11, police had caught six people on whose disclosure Rana was arrested from Chandigarh on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/liquor-theft-case-ex-mla-sent-to-14-day-judicial-custody/story-Jl13OkZ7MUthEiVbUI3D8M.html
16-05-2020||City||20 of 26 cases in Purnia are migrant workers who came in a packed truck||PURNIA: Altogether 15 more persons tested positive in Purnia on Saturday, taking the district’s tally to 26. Of the total, 20 are of the migrants who reached here from Delhi on a truck with 35 others on May 3. “But there’s no need to panic as all the 55 migrants who came on truck were quarantined on the day they reached here and hence there is no chance of the disease being spread to other places or localities,” Purnia DM Rahul Kumar said. “So far, 20 of them have tested positive and more test reports are awaited.”Purnia’s first Covid positive patient had also reached here on a truck carrying fruits from Azadpur in Delhi on April 27.“Almost all positive cases are related to migrants who have reached here surreptitiously,” additional chief medical officer (ACMO) of Purnia Dr S K Verma said. “The troubling part is that the migrants are still coming by hiring trucks and without going through a proper medical screening.” He expressed deep concern over those migrants who escaped medical screening and are staying in villages.Reports coming from various sources suggest that truck owners are collecting huge money by transporting the migrants to their destination. “We had to pay Rs 3,000 each to the truck driver to ferry us to our native block Rupauli in Purnia,” one of the migrants said.The astonishing part is that the trucks have been carrying migrants in the presence of police forces.Seemanchal comprising of four districts Purina, Katihar, Kishanganj and Araria has been a hub of migrants. There has been a sharp rise in number of patients with 58 cases reported so far, followed by Katihar (15), Kishanganj (12) and Araria (5).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/20-of-26-cases-in-purnia-are-migrant-workers-who-came-in-a-packed-truck/story-4OPKUpVpyE5LLkgU0yPmyO.html
16-05-2020||Delhi||Nurses body files plea in HC, asks govt to bring back 56 pregnant nurses from Saudi Arabia||The United Nurses Association, a nurses union, filed a plea in the Delhi high court on Saturday, asking the Centre to bring back 56 pregnant nurses stranded in Saudi Arabia.The plea, filed on behalf of the nurses, also said they be brought back on priority, as all of them are in “serious distress” and need immediate medical support.The petition, filed by advocate Subhash Chandran KR, said the pregnant nurses have serious medical issues as most of them are in the third trimester of pregnancy. He argued that health care workers are regularly exposed to hazards that put them at risk of infection of Covid-19.Saudi Arabia, as of Saturday evening, has recorded 52,016 cases of Covid-19, and 302 deaths.The plea, likely to be heard next week, said these pregnant nurses have not got priority for repatriation in the first phase of the Centre’s ‘Vande Bharat Mission’. The second phase of the ambitious repatriation programme commenced on Saturday.The petition said that as per the airline policy, a pregnant woman cannot travel after 36 weeks of pregnancy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/nurses-body-files-plea-in-hc-asks-govt-to-bring-back-56-pregnant-nurses-from-saudi-arabia/story-cs5gM80LXWNbgaC5G4RHXI.html
16-05-2020||Patna||Six flights from US, UK and Gulf to land at Gaya from Monday||The Gaya International airport will receive at least six flights during the second phase of Vande Bharat mission between May 18 and May 24.According to official sources in the Bihar home department, only six flights have so far been scheduled to land at the Gaya airport. The first flight, AI-0112, is likely to arrive on Monday evening. Each flight will carry less than 200 passengers. If a person shows Covid-19 symptoms during the journey, he will immediately be separated from others and made to leave the flight from the back door when it lands in Gaya.A total of 8,000 people from Bihar stranded in the UK, USA and the Middle East countries are to be brought back in different phases.A mock drill for the evacuation of symptomatic patients from a flight and the terminal building was conducted at the airport on Saturday.The Gaya district administration has also made arrangements for paid quarantine centres in Bodh Gaya. According to Gaya SSP Rajiv Kumar Mishra, more than 5000 beds have been earmarked at 161 hotels and 56 monasteries for paid quarantine for a period of 14 days. He said hotel rooms have been divided into three categories – super deluxe, deluxe and non-AC, depending on the available facilities. Super deluxe rooms will cost Rs 1,600, deluxe rooms Rs 1,000 and non-AC rooms Rs 800 per day.A district administration official said that those put under quarantine would pay Rs 60 for breakfast, Rs 100 for vegetarian food while Rs 140 for non-veg food. Different categories of ‘thali’ options would also be there for the returnees.Air-conditioned guest house rooms will be available at Rs 800 per day and non-AC rooms in guest houses at Rs 600 per day. The returnees will have the option to choose any of the five categories of accommodation.Gaya DM Abhishek Kumar Singh said the friends and relatives of the returnees have been cautioned against any attempt to meet their near and dear ones either at the time of arrival or anytime thereafter during their mandatory stay at the quarantine centres. From the airport, all the returnees would be taken directly to the quarantine centres in Bodh GayaAsangba Chuba, Magadh divisional commissioner, said since Gaya airport handles international flights the government decided to make it the landing point for the special flights coming from abroad.Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla wrote a letter to Bihar government asking it to arrange facilities for the mandatory institutional quarantine of stranded Indian nationals being brought back to the country. The letter also said that standard operating procedure (SoP) for the movement of stranded nationals has already been notified on May 5 and it has to be strictly followed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/six-flights-from-us-uk-and-gulf-to-land-at-gaya-from-monday/story-UCgteBSl3mACwJMOwRGH9M.html
16-05-2020||Patna||Beggars outside Gaya temple on the brink as their ‘bank’ goes bankrupt||A bank founded by beggars at Gaya for their rainy days has gone bankrupt, courtesy lockdown 3 , leaving them on the verge of starvation.Till lockdown 1 and 2, ‘Mangla Bank’, founded seven years back by about 50 beggars who sit outside the famous Maa Mangla Gauri temple, had a balance of Rs 1.20 lakh. “However, we could not sustain it further. During lockdown 3, all the money was distributed as loans to beggars for survival, as their earnings in the form of alms stopped when the Maa Mangla Gauri temple was shut down and the devotees stopped coming. There is no flow of cash or kind now,” says Chenari Paswan, 65, who is the manager of the Mangla Bank and has been begging at the place for about 40 years.Maa Mangla Gauri temple is situated on the top of Mangla Gauri hill. According to mythology, here Shakti is worshipped as a Goddess of benevolence and nourishment. The footfall of devotees is maximum on every Tuesday, besides the Durga Puja.Paswan rues that though they still sit at Mangla Gauri the whole day, they hardly get any alms. “On Saturday, a ‘babu’ came and gave us Rs 2,000, instructing to distribute 2 kg flour to each beggar, but this will hardly be enough for all. No official from the Gaya district administration has come to help us. Till now, we are surviving on small helps coming from some social workers or generous people,” he says.The Mangla Bank has a formal register where all the deposits and credits are jotted down. “When things were normal, every Tuesday, the beggar used to deposit Rs 50 with me. Every Saturday, the collected money was deposited in Madhya Bihar Gramin Bank, Maranpur branch. Besides this, the record is manually maintained by me in a register,” says Paswan.The cash, in the time of need, is withdrawn from Madhya Bihar Gramin Bank and given as loan to the beggars at 2% rate of interest. “The bank account is operated by joint signatures of three beggars, Malti Devi, Hiramati Devi and Nagina Devi. Nagina is the treasurer of the bank. I don’t have the authority to withdraw the money, which gives the rest of the members faith on me that fraud will not be committed with the collected money,” says Paswan, adding the interest collected from the beggars is deposited in the bank account.Nagina says members who ask money from the bank for drinking and gambling are discouraged. “Aggrieved, some have resigned from the membership of the bank. But as an informal institution, we have lent money for marrying daughters of the beggars, in time of medical emergencies or even for sponsoring studies to wards of the members,” she says.Paswan hoped the ‘normal’ days would return soon by the blessings of Maa Mangla Gauri, who has been helping them live in this world.Gaya’s deputy collector, Amrita, who is also in-charge of Covid-19 control room in the district, said the beggars would have to contact the control room through phone or visit the four disaster relief centres, where cooked food is served twice a day. “They can also get dry ration from the control room, as they might not be ration card holders, but the condition is that they have to get their names registered with us,” she said. Caption: Beggars at Maa Mangla Gauri temple in Gaya on Saturday. HT PHOTO||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/beggars-outside-gaya-temple-on-the-brink-as-their-bank-goes-bankrupt/story-WBjDsLnl8xzHD4wfsyxHPL.html
16-05-2020||City||Sanitation asks man not to throw waste in Mangolpuri, attacked||New DelhiA 50-year-old sanitation worker with the North Delhi Municipal Corporation was allegedly attacked with a rod by a coconut seller following an argument over throwing waste on a street in outer Delhi’s Mangolpuri.The incident took place on Wednesday when the sanitation worker, who uses his single name Dharampal, had gone to clean roads in Mangolpuri’s Y-block. A case under sections 341 and 323 of Indian Penal Code was registered on Dharampal’s complaint.Dharampal’s family posted a video on social media in which his son Rakesh Duggal and Randhir Gagat, president of MCD Safai Majdoor Vikas Parishad, alleged police inaction and threatened that all sanitation workers in Delhi would go on a strike if the attackers were not arrested.“We registered a case and the attacker has been arrested,” deputy commissioner of police (outer) A Koan said.Dharampal is his complaint said around 8 am on Wednesday, he was cleaning a road near a petrol pump in Y-block Mangolpuri when he saw a coconut seller, whom he identified as one Shahrukh, throwing waste on the road.“I had asked him not to throw waste on the road earlier as well. Since I found the garbage again, I asked him why he cannot stop doing that. He said it was my work to clean the waste. An argument broke out between us. He picked up a rod and attacked me,” the sanitation worker said in his complaint.Dharampal was admitted to Sanjay Gandhi Memorial from where he was discharged after treatment. In the video, Dharampal’s son alleged that his father was attacked by the coconut seller and his three associates and that the police was not taking any action.When contacted over the phone, his son Rakesh Duggal said his father suffered multiple injuries to his thighs, shoulder and hands.“We as sanitation workers are working hard to keep the city clean during the Covid-19 pandemic. Some people appreciate our hard work by showering us with flowers. But some people misbehave with us and do not hesitate to assault our colleagues,” said the union’s president Gagat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sanitation-asks-man-not-to-throw-waste-in-mangolpuri-attacked/story-aFwz9lns7lkE2ajtCQyfBP.html
16-05-2020||City||Migrant workers take out protest march demanding salaries in Sangrur||Over 300 migrant works on Saturday took out a protest march from Bhawanigarh to a private factory in Ghabdan village, demanding their last month’s salaries and payment for overtime.This has come days after the protest by Malerkotla mill workers against salary cuts.During their protest outside Indian Acrylics Limited, the migrants raised slogans against the management. Hours later, the factory assured them payment of overtime, while district administration officials said the decision of April salary was still pending with the Supreme Court.Mukesh Malaudh, state chief of Zameen Prapti Sangharsh Committee (ZPSC), said the migrant workers were staying in miserable conditions and wanted to work in the factory instead of leaving for their homes.Despite repeated attempts, Indian Acrylics Limited officials could not be contacted. However, deputy superintendent of police (Rural) Satpal Sharma said the factory has started depositing payment of overtime done by the migrants in March and May.“The matter has been resolved. The decision of April month’s salary is still pending with the Supreme Court, but rest of the payment is being deposited in the workers’ accounts. However, those who wish to go home have been asked to submit their resignations or leave applications. The factory will be functional with 30% staff,” added DSP Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/migrant-workers-take-out-protest-march-demanding-salaries-in-sangrur/story-q3tREEw0Khj6yvBU0kIJcK.html
16-05-2020||Patna||113 new cases push Bihar’s tally to 1,145, over 40% are migrants||Bihar reported 113 more Covid cases across 23 districts Saturday, pushing the state tally to 1,145, with seven deaths so far.This was the second highest spike in a day after May 12, when 130 cases were reported in state.Of these cases, six were reported from Patna, five of whom were police personnel of the Bihar Military Police (BMP-14). This had taken the tally of police personnel infected with the virus to 37, including 27 from the BMP and 10 others from the district police constabulary.The home-coming of the migrants had contributed to a spike in cases as around 44% of the state’s Covid cases were attributed to them, said health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh.A total of 481 migrants of whom 423 had returned to the state after May 3, had so far tested positive for coronavirus, he added.Of the total 44,340 samples tested so far, nearly 2.44% were positive for Covid-19, said Singh. Meanwhile, state government Saturday clarified that migrants coming from outside by any means, will be eligible for government aid of ₹1,000 after completion of the mandatory 14-day institutional quarantine period.The government issued fresh directives Friday as the previous order was silent about migrant workers, who had reached the state by road, either by truck, bus, bicycle and even on foot. The earlier order had mentioned about migrants reaching the state by Shramik Special trains.In allowing financial assistance of ₹1,000 to all such individuals, the government had, however, put a rider that migrants, having their bank accounts, maintained in Bihar, would only be eligible to receive its largesse.This had raised political hackles with the Congress questioning the state government’s intention in paying the migrants, arguing that many of them would be deprived of the financial aid as they had their bank accounts at their place of employment.Kumar had earlier said that migrants returning to the state would be reimbursed ₹500 in addition to their train fare. A migrant worker would, however, get a minimum of ₹1,000 under the scheme if the amount taken together was less than ₹1,000, said Anupam Kumar, secretary, Information and public relations department.This amount was to be directly transferred into the bank account of the individual after completion of the quarantine period.As of Saturday, nearly 3 lakh migrants were staying at block quarantine camps, after 2,46,160 migrant workers had reached Bihar by 195 Shramik Special trains till May 14, as per data released by the IPRD. The migrants have been put into 14-day institutional quarantine at block-level centres, after which they will have to undergo seven-day home quarantine.Unlike students, who were allowed home quarantine after they returned back, the migrants were made to stay in institutional quarantine centres to contain the spread of the virus, said officials.As of Saturday, Munger reported 125 cases, followed by Patna (106), Rohtas (77), Nalanda (67), Buxar (59), Begusarai (54), Siwan, Khagaria (43 each), Madhubani (39), Nawada (35) Kaimur (33), Bhagalpur (37), Banka, Gopalganj (32 each), Bhojpur (30), Jehanabad, Purnea (27 each), West Champaran (25), Aurangabad (22), Sheikhpura (21), Muzaffarpur (20), Darbhanga, Madhepura, East Champaran (16 each), Kaitihar (17), Lakhisarai, Saharsa (13 each), Arwal, Samastipur, Kishanganj (12 each), Supaul, Vaishali (11 each), Saran, Jamui (10 each), Gaya (8 each), Sitamarhi (7), Araria, Sheohar (4 each) till the time of going to the press.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/113-new-cases-push-bihar-s-tally-to-1-145-over-40-are-migrants/story-8SOR455vpWJDvUERx6lPAJ.html
16-05-2020||City||BJP seeks CBI probe into illicit liquor sale in Punjab||Punjab BJP president Ashwani Sharma on Saturday demanded Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into the alleged illicit sale of liquor in the state and asked chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh to resign “if he is unable to govern the state”. In a statement, Sharma also alleged that the state government is threatening to cancel the licences of liquor contractors after they refused to accept the new excise policy framed by the Punjab government. “It clearly shows that the government has miserably failed in governing the state and is working under the pressure of the mafia.”Former MLA from Pathankot, Sharma demanded a thorough probe into the alleged illegal sale of liquor from various factories in the state during the lockdown. “CCTV footage should be procured to check how many trucks of liquor came out of their premises during the lockdown period.”He also asked Amarinder to make his stand clear over the allegations against Punjab chief secretary Karan Avtar Singh. “The CM should either give a clean chit to the chief secretary or take strict action against him.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-seeks-cbi-probe-into-illicit-liquor-sale-in-punjab/story-IYG5gq8nu707KrRsgVqlwL.html
16-05-2020||Chandigarh||OPDs closed, PGIMER starts telephonic consultation for outpatient medical care||Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) will start telephonic consultation services to provide assistance to patients seeking outpatient medical care from Monday.“Non-Covid patients will receive medical advice and treatment over the telephone. This way, patients will not have to commute and congregation in OPDs will also be avoided,” an official statement by PGIMER said.THE PROCESSTo avail the tele-consultation services, patients will have to call the dedicated telephone numbers of respective OPD centres, between 8am to 9am, for registration on particular OPD days (Monday to Saturday, except holidays) as per the existing schedule, which has been put up on the institute’s website, www.pgimer.edu.in.Once the registration process is complete, patients will receive a call from the respective specialty doctors between 10am and 5pm. “Patients have been requested to provide a functional mobile number, preferably with WhatsApp facility, during the registration for ease of communication with doctors,” officials said.“These services are only for telephonic consultations and opening of physical OPD services will be announced separately,” they said.CARDIO DEPT STARTED SERVICE IN APRILThe tele-cardiology services started by cardiology department since April receives around 80 calls per day.Head of the cardiology department, Dr Yash Paul Sharma, said the department had started the tele-cardiology and virtual conferencing OPD on April 21.“We started this OPD especially for patients with heart failure, CAD, post PCI, and post devices. Initially, it was advertised on PGIMER’s cardiology website and communicated via social media and radio,” he added.The tele-cardiology is conducted on regular OPD days of the consultants, who attend calls in their offices. The phone numbers of the consultants as well as residents, along with the OPD days, are available on PGIMER’s website.Sharma said the emergency number, 708-700-9218, had also been circulated for 24X7 emergency consultations.“The number of calls received per day has increased from 20 to 30 calls per day to around 80 calls recently. The maximum number of calls received was 86 on May 13,” he added. “The tele-consultation schedule has remained the same with consultants attending and giving consultations as per their regular OPD days,” he said.LIST OF TELEPHONE NUMBERS FOR TELE-CONSULTATION REGISTRATIONCentre Telephone numberNew OPD0172-2755991Advanced Eye Centre (AEC) & DDTC0172-2755992Advanced Cardiac Centre (ACC)0172-2755993Advanced Paediatric Centre (APC)0172-2755994Oral Health Sciences (OHSC)0172-2755995||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/opds-closed-pgimer-starts-telephonic-consultation-for-outpatient-medical-care/story-LMsn3zL6XUH8r97tuXU3WI.html
16-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh consumer disputes redressal commission, forums to hear cases via video conferencing||The Chandigarh state consumer disputes redressal commission and two state consumer disputes redressal forums will start hearing cases via video conferencing (VC) from Monday onwards.The commission will hold hearings from 11am to 1pm on all working days. From Monday to Wednesday, forum 1 will hold hearings from 1.30pm to 2.30pm while forum 2 will hear cases from 3pm onwards. On Thursday and Friday, the timings of the two forums will be inter-changed.The litigants can send soft copy of cases or applications by email to the court. The email IDs are scdrcchandigarh19@gmail.com for state commission, registrardf1@gmail.com for district forum 1 and registrardf1@gmail.com for district forum 2.In case of difficulty, the secretary of the commission can be called at 9988-871-967.The advocates/parties will be sent the VC link on their mobile phones in advance and all advocates are required to adhere to the dress code as prescribed by the Supreme Court.Advocate Pankaj Chandgothia said the hearings of all daily listed cases through VC will ease the pendency of cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-consumer-disputes-redressal-commission-forums-to-hear-cases-via-video-conferencing/story-UKi2b3VUMlZXuyJg3hEMcM.html
16-05-2020||City||40-year-old Covid patient dies in Kalyan; 11 kids among 35 new cases||A 40-year-old woman from Kalyan, who had tested positive for Covid, died at Holy Cross Hospital on Friday. This was the tenth death in Kalyan-Dombivli.The health department of Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) said the woman was admitted to a private hospital in Kalyan. After she tested positive for coronavirus, she was shifted to the Covid hospital.“The woman was suffering from fever and was admitted to a private hospital for two days. After she developed respiratory problems, she was shifted to Holy Cross Covid hospital. She was put on ventilator and she died on Friday,” said Prashant Patil, spokesperson of Kalyan Doctors Army that is treating the Covid patients in KDMC hospitals. KDMC recorded 35 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the total tally to 459. Among the new cases, 11 are children aged between 1 and 17 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/40-year-old-covid-patient-dies-in-kalyan-11-kids-among-35-new-cases/story-km4kbFfDZKPhktkpAY7XyJ.html
16-05-2020||City||Thane residents can apply online for tree trimming permission||Housing societies, commercial establishments or individual residents can apply online for permission to trim trees before monsoon. Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has created a separate dashboard on its website to make the permission paperless. Last year, more than 800 trees fell during monsoon, killing two people. The pre-monsoon trimming is important to prevent such accidents.Those who wished to trim any tree on their premises or road had to submit an application in the TMC office. With the Covid-19 outbreak, TMC has decided to go paperless.Tree officer Kedar Patil said this was the first time permission will be given online.“We have uploaded the forms online which residents, housing societies and corporators can fill and submit if they want trees to be trimmed. An expert will survey the tree and give his feedback and approval online,” he said.Patil added, “Trimming will be carried out following social distance guidelines and workers will use masks and gloves. The trimmed branches will be transported to the Kopri green waste processing plant.”He said the garden department has also begun its survey of dangerous trees last week.In September, the Supreme Court had given directives to TMC to draft a policy for trimming and pruning of trees while hearing a petition filed by Thane-based activist. TMC had chalked out a policy on scientific trimming in November last year. The tree committee said trimming will be done out as per the norms of the policy.Vikrant Tawde, a tree committee member, said, “The permission will be given abiding by all the norms of the policy.”Residents can log on to the TMC website to apply for permission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-residents-can-apply-online-for-tree-trimming-permission/story-kc1tDFu2DFrU2u1WtkOKWP.html
16-05-2020||Chandigarh||Burail woman held for killing husband sent to police custody||A local court on Saturday sent a woman from Burail village in Sector 45, accused of strangling her husband to death, to one-day police custody.The accused, Radha, was arrested after the autopsy revealed that her husband, Mani Ram, a painter, died of asphyxia due to strangulation and found nail marks on his neck.After the crime, the woman had brought the man, who was around 40 years old, to the Sector 45 dispensary, where he was declared brought dead on Tuesday night. The police were then called in and the body was moved to the mortuary at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH) in Sector 16.Police said the deceased was tested for Covid-19 before the autopsy. They said the victim was an alcoholic, and was drunk on Tuesday evening as well when his wife attacked him. According to their neighbours, the couple used to quarrel frequently.On the complaint of the victim’s cousin, Brijesh Kumar, who also lives in Sector 45, police had booked Radha under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/burail-woman-held-for-killing-husband-sent-to-police-custody/story-8iKrOaoPzaNaALEL7f6rIK.html
16-05-2020||City||Navi Mumbai records 80 new cases||Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) reported 80 new Covid cases on Saturday, taking the total to 1,128. Three deaths were also reported.Among the new cases are 25 from Turbhe, 15 from Kopar Khairane, 12 from Nerul, nine from Vashi, seven from Ghansoli, six from Belapur and Airoli each.Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) reported 12 new Covid cases on Saturday, taking the total to 246. Kamothe has recorded 99, Kharghar 57, Kalamboli 27, New Panvel 31, Old Panvel 18, CISF camp 10 and Taloja four.A 34-year-old personnel from Rapid Action Force, Taloja; two police personnel posted at Arthur Road jail; a 28-year-old policeman posted in Bandra and living in Kamothe; two BEST staffers, a depot mechanic and a driver, have tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navi-mumbai-records-80-new-cases/story-673FdNwcelvRL7vEymLUWN.html
16-05-2020||Chandigarh||PU student hangs herself at Chandigarh’s EWS Colony||A 23-year-old woman ended her life by hanging herself from a ceiling fan at her house in EWS Colony, Dhanas, on Saturday evening.Police said the deceased was enrolled in the Bachelors of Arts (BA) course at Panjab University’s correspondence department. As per preliminary investigation, the woman had a fight with her mother, following which she took the extreme step.She was rushed to Government Multi-Specialty hospital in Sector 16, but was declared brought dead by on duty doctors. The Sarangpur police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The autopsy will be conducted on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pu-student-hangs-herself-at-chandigarh-s-ews-colony/story-XqwYe55H3pPpqi6fNKtX7O.html
16-05-2020||City||3 plumbers arrested for killing Amritsar cop’s mother||The commissionerate police arrested three plumbers on Saturday for allegedly killing the mother of a constable of the Punjab Police, when she was home by herself 10 days ago.47-year-old Sarabjit Kaur was found dead, with her throat slit, in a pool of blood at her home on May 6. As per to police, the accused, after slitting the widow’s throat with a sharp weapon, decamped with gold jewellery and cash from her home. The three accused have been identified as Gurpreet Singh alias Gopi, 24, of Raja Sansi village; Lakhwinder Singh alias Lakha, 27, of Ram Tirath road; and Amritpal Singh alias Kadu, 19, of Jous village in Amritsar. The three plumbers had been working at the victim’s home and were aware about the presence of jewellery, police said. With their arrest, police recovered the stolen ornaments—bangles, five rings, earrings—and ₹6,000 in cash. A Honda Activa scooter and the weapon used for the crime were also recovered.Police said that the victim’s husband (employed with Punjab Police) had died a few years ago, after which her elder son Gurkirat Singh was given the job of a constable, while her younger son lives in Canada. On May 6, Gurkirat, who is posted at Gharinda police station of Amritsar rural district, came back home after work to find his mother’s body in a pool of blood. Station house officer (SHO) of Sadar police station, Amarnath, said, “The three have confessed to their crime.” A case has been registered against them under Section 302 (murder), 454 (house-trespass), 380 (theft in dwelling house), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-plumbers-arrested-for-killing-amritsar-cop-s-mother/story-lJaG9Jg0SsDGd3qF3yoyCK.html
16-05-2020||Pune||Take prior permission before retuning to Kolhapur: Patil||Fearing the spread of the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes the Covid-19 (coronavirus) infection, in the district, Kolhapur guardian minister Satej Patil, has asked people to take prior permission before returning.Patil said, “I have written to the district collector appealing to him that only those, with no other options to stay in Pune and Mumbai areas which are red zones, must return with prior permission from the district administration. While those who do have homes in these cities or a place to stay, must stay back there.”Many migrants have been returning home to their native towns since the lockdown after their income became a serious problem. Currently, Kolhapur district has about 28 positive patients and has reported one death due to Covid-19. Out of these, nine have been discharged and only 18 active cases are undergoing treatment. Patil said, “I am not saying that they should not come, but if they have a place to stay back then they should only return if they have prior permission and only if they have medical emergencies or any unavoidable reason to come.”“We want to prevent the spread of the virus in the district which has comparatively less number of cases as compared to Mumbai and Pune which are prime red zones in the country,” he said.Patil also said that about 86,000 people have come to Kolhapur before the lockdown was officially announced and about 20,000 had come after the lockdown by seeking permission. “Only those who have permission must come so that we can arrange quarantine or isolation facilities for them accordingly,” said Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/take-prior-permission-before-retuning-to-kolhapur-patil/story-oomLlO7YhcOIO4xNwfI17M.html
16-05-2020||Chandigarh||It’s time to leave the past behind and move on in the new world||Theodore Roosevelt once said: There can be no life without change, and to be afraid of what is different or unfamiliar is to be afraid of life. These lines came to mind on hearing my 11-year-old grandson Aziz tell his mother with a faint starchiness in his voice: “I want change. I am getting bored. I know every day is a different day, but it is the same routine!”The young man’s words as he furiously worked on a Rubik’s cube to match colours on each side got me thinking. Is the curfew beginning to weigh on young minds? Think of the daily routine of children of his age, now confined indoors. Imagine the number of times they must be complaining of boredom; coaxing their parents to ‘play’ with them – chess, ludo, carrom! For them, options of indoor games are diminishing, getting exhausted. Frankly, parents lack a child’s perspective, perseverance, patience and stamina to agree to drop everything and start playing with them whenever asked to.WHEN CONCEPT OF CHANGE CHANGESChange is desired by everyone, be it a child or adult. It is even more relevant today when coronavirus has changed the very concept of change, life itself and its meaning. There is an essential difference in the times before the pandemic and now. This difference has left us shaken. Things are not the same in so many ways: Earlier, we were told to keep our distance from ‘negative’ people, now we are told to stay away from ‘positive’ people!Change, at first, is resisted, opposed. Today, we are on the cusp of an unexpected, unanticipated change. Let us accept this and move forward, adjusting our lifestyles and attitude to the new normal.Let us usher in the changes children desire and deserve.WHY CHILDREN NEED TO UNDERSTAND THE TRUTHThink out-of-the box. Explain to them that certain changes will never be undone; life will continue. The present is painful, but nothing hurts more than remaining stuck where we do not belong.Cut off from school, classmates and outdoor play, children are now given the liberty to spend more time before a screen –TV, Tab or smart phone. That’s not the real world and this liberty can get to be a liability for them.Any adversity makes us stronger to cope with stress, strain, worry, concerns. With everything disrupted: From lives to livelihoods, economies to commerce; social relations to social distancing; work to leisure, we have to start gearing up to face whatever comes our way – knowing at the same time that life will continue.Children will not understand this. Explain, tell them why we have to move on. CS Lewis once said: There are far better things ahead than any we leave behind.The present phase will teach us to balance jaan and jahan (life and world) as also to leave our past in the past - or let it destroy our future! Prepare children to change now in the fast changing world!(The writer is a veteran journalist and former Punjab information commissioner)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/it-s-time-to-leave-the-past-behind-and-move-on-in-the-new-world/story-FpS3s6j4hwKWpjqxImshyN.html
16-05-2020||City||Ludhiana restaurateurs want admn to allow home delivery in evening hours||Though restaurants in the city have opened following lockdown relaxations, its owners are not happy with the timings set by the administration for home deliveries. Stating that they receive most of their orders in the evening hours, restaurateurs say the administration must allow home delivery during evening hours.Currently, home deliveries are allowed between 7am to 7pm.As per the eatery owners, most residents are already apprehensive about ordering from outside due to fear of infection. “We get very few orders during the day as most residents are wary of the virus spread. Besides, the timings set by the administrations aren’t conducive. The few orders that we get are around lunch time,” says Parampal Singh, owner of Kays Lovely Food, Jamalpur. Bhupinder Singh, the owner of Ice Cream Parlour, Basant restaurant, and The Table restaurant, said, “These days due to the rising temperature, most residents don’t eat fast food during the day. Besides, they prefer having ice-cream post dinner, which is why the time slot of 7am to 7pm, does not work for us.”He added that due to the time restriction, they are not able to accept most of the orders. “The administration must allow home deliveries from 1pm to 11pm,” Bhupinder said, stating that in the past one week, sale of food and ice-cream in his eatery has been 15% of the normal. SHORTAGE OF DELIVERY BOYSWith large-scale migrant exodus, most restaurants are also facing shortage of manpower.Bhupinder says, “The online home delivery service company has reduced the salary of delivery boys due to which the number most of them are unwilling to continue. Due to this, there is a shortage of delivery boys and now delivery takes around an hour as compared to earlier when it took just about 20 minutes.”  Manjit Singh, president of the Ludhiana hotel and restaurant association, said that not all restaurants in city have opened as some of them don’t provide home delivery service and dining-in is not allowed yet. “Further, those who have started functioning are also not able to serve food during evening hours when the demand is more,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-restaurateurs-want-admn-to-allow-home-delivery-in-evening-hours/story-1HTFfesWvfeP8BwmIjTSmN.html
16-05-2020||City||Man confesses to raping 21-year-old daughter: Police||The 49-year-old man, arrested on Friday for allegedly raping his 21-year-old daughter, has confessed to the crime, the police said on Saturday. The matter had come to light after the victim delivered a stillborn baby at the civil hospital in Sector 6.“The accused confessed in his statement to the police that he used to force himself on his daughter mostly in an inebriated state. It was mostly in night hours when other family members were asleep,” said inspector Neha Chauhan, SHO, women police station, Sector 5. The SHO said as per the victim, the accused had been sexually abusing her for the past one year. But, she could not tell anyone due to fear. Even her mother claimed no knowledge of the sexual exploitation, the inspector said, despite her daughter’s 36-week pregnancy and being present at the hospital when she delivered the stillborn baby. When questioned, the mother only said that she assumed her daughter had menstruation problems. A police official said although the victim appeared mentally fine, she seemed to be gullible and mostly remained indoors. They will talk to again once she is feeling better. The family lives in Abhaypur, Sector 19. The accused, who has two more daughters and as many sons, is a marketing executive at a kitchen appliance company.The SHO said he was sent to judicial remand for 14 days. Further investigation is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-confesses-to-raping-21-year-old-daughter-police/story-PmijPHIMHHnUVX1ZGl1uDP.html
16-05-2020||City||PGIMER nurse’s suicide: Week on, police fail to arrest abetment accused||A week after a senior nursing officer posted in PGIMER, Chandigarh, committed suicide, police have yet to arrest her four senior colleagues, who were booked for abetment to suicide, due to non-availability of their addresses.After the woman, a resident of Kamao Colony in Nayagaon, took the extreme step by injecting herself with poison, police had registered an FIR against Sunita, Jaspal Kaur, Navneet Dhaliwal and Neelam Chand under Section 306 of the Indian Penal Code at the Nayagaon police station.“The phones of the accused nurses are switched off. So, we have written to PGIMER to provide their complete details. We have also asked authorities to detain the nurses in case they report for duty, and inform us,” said Nayagaon station house officer (SHO) Ashok Kumar.Police recovered a suicide note from the deceased which said the accused were harassing her. Her husband said she was mentally stressed for the last few months as the four senior nurses were harassing her after a dispute over her transfer within the department.The deceased was earlier posted in the new OPD at PGIMER from where she was transferred to the female ward. She had been working at the institute since 1998.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pgimer-nurse-s-suicide-week-on-police-fail-to-arrest-abetment-accused/story-h532sB6QccJ8TS5cUXOoSJ.html
16-05-2020||Chandigarh||Covid lockdown: Chandigarh Club members see red over subscription fee bill for April||With all clubs in the city remaining closed ever since the lockdown began on March 24, some members of Chandigarh Club, Sector 1, have objected to getting a bill for subscription fee for April.A fee of around ₹1,400, including GST, is collected bimonthly from all 7,000-odd members of the club.A member, Divanshu Jain, said, “Since we didn’t use any services, it doesn’t make sense to charge us membership fee. Other clubs have extended memberships and subscriptions by up to four months to account for the lockdown months. Why shouldn’t Chandigarh Club do the same?”Jain, an advocate at the Punjab and Haryana high court, added that he had sent a legal notice to the club management asking to waive the fee.Another member, Puneet Jain, who runs a hotel in Sector 35, said all clubs should waive membership fee during this period. “Even after the lockdown is opened, only home delivery will be started at first, which the club doesn’t do, so the management needs to reduce the fee till then.” Another member, Ajai Singh Takhar, a businessman, said the costs of electricity and water to run the club were not being incurred, so the club could manage their finances. “Even after paying a joining fee of ₹3.85 lakh, rather than enjoying the club experience, we feel like they are just after our money. We have written to the management about our complaints, but they don’t reply,” he said.‘NEED TO PAY SALARIES’Saying that membership fee had never been waived ever since the club was started in 1958, executive member Hitesh Puri said, “The fee is needed to pay the salaries of around 300 employees of the club and for other monthly expenses. All members are treated as shareholders of the club and have to step in for its functioning. About a third of the 7,000 members have already paid the fee online.”Club president Sandeep Sahni said, “Before we received the legal notice, nobody had complained about the fees. In so many years of functioning, nobody has had problems with subscription fee as it is needed to run the club. We will soon send a reply to the notice.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-lockdown-chandigarh-club-members-see-red-over-subscription-fee-bill-for-april/story-lPvY04zsjD4vLlzc90k62K.html
16-05-2020||City||Man kills rickshaw-puller inside bus terminal in Shahdara||New Delhi: A 32-year-old was arrested on Friday, two hours after he allegedly bludgeoned to death a 40-year-old rickshaw puller with a cricket bat in a fit of rage following an argument over using a water tap in Shahdara, police said. The incident took place inside the compound of a the DTC bus terminal in Shahdara. The arrested man Nandlal alias Nandu, is a homeless who has been living around the bus terminal for the last nine years, said deputy commissioner of police (Shahdara) Amit Sharma. He said the police had received a call around 5pm on Friday that someone was assaulted with a blunt object at the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) bus terminal in Shahdara.“Our team reached there and found a man dead with a head injury. A DTC employee, who was an eye-witness, said in his statement that one homeless man, Nandu, hit the man and fled. A case was registered and multiple teams were formed to nab Nandu,” said the DCP.The dead man was identified as Shyam Pal, a rickshaw puller. After a two-hour-long search operation, one of the police teams caught Nandu from near the railway tracks, behind the vegetable market in Shahdara.During the interrogation, the DCP said, Nandu disclosed that he was wandering in the DTC bus terminal compound when he saw Shyam Pal washing his rickshaw and cleaning himself under the tap.“Nandu asked him not to use the water tap. The rickshaw puller scolded him and hurled abuses at him. This enraged Nandu. He picked up a cricket bat lying nearby and hit him on the head. The man collapsed after which Nandu fled with the bat. We have recovered the bat from him,” added DCP Sharma, quoting Nandu’s statement to the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-kills-rickshaw-puller-inside-bus-terminal-in-shahdara/story-C3zTQJ0KAneSBoH7PFM8NJ.html
16-05-2020||Chandigarh||Mercury may cross 40°C in Chandigarh this week||After intermittent spells of rain, the maximum temperature is likely to touch 40 degrees Celsius in the coming week, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said.IMD officials said dry weather was likely to continue for the next five days with consistent rise in day temperature. “Some light rain is expected in Punjab next week, but it is unlikely in Chandigarh. However, winds up to 40km per hour may blow here during this duration,” they said.Meanwhile, the maximum temperature rose from 36 degrees on Friday to 37.5 degrees on Saturday, while the minimum temperature stayed unchanged at 22.1 degrees. In the next three days, maximum temperature is likely to stay between 38 and 39 degrees, while the minimum temperature will hover around 23 degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mercury-may-cross-40-c-in-chandigarh-this-week/story-ncf31eWilqhSQmVwThZz5M.html
16-05-2020||Mumbai||HC allows vehicular access to Matheran thrice a week for essential goods||The Bombay high court (HC) disposed of a petition seeking vehicular access to Matheran to supply essential goods to the Ecologically Sensitive Zone (ESZ) after the interim monitoring committee of the Ministry of Environment and Forest (MoEF) said the local civic body could use Bharat Stage-IV compliant vehicles to transport goods once a week. The court, while accepting the committee’s decision to use the railways to supply goods to the core area, said till the railway starts transporting goods, vehicular access would have to be provided thrice a week instead of one, which MoEF agreed to. A single bench of justice SJ Kathawalla, while hearing the petition filed by former Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) MLA Suresh Lad on Saturday through video conferencing, was informed by MoEF that the interim monitoring committee appointed on May 13 had considered the fact that the tourist season for Matheran from March to May was lost which resulted in genuine problems for the residents of the hill station. The committee under the chairmanship of Konkan division commissioner Shivaji Daund on Friday heard the issues raised by the petitioner and observed, “The peak tourism season of Matheran hill station (March to May) was lost due to lockdown since March 2020 and this has resulted into huge economic losses to the people of Matheran and reduced their paying capacity. Undoubtedly, the current pandemic situation arising out of Covid- 19 is unique and has increased hardships for people of Matheran.”The committee unanimously passed a decision to request railway authorities to operationalise the line from Dasturi Naka to Matheran station for transporting goods. The committee decided to send a proposal to the divisional railway manager of Central Railway for approving goods transport by attaching dedicated goods bogies. The minutes of the committee’s decision further said till the transportation of goods via railways does not commence, it would allow the Matheran municipal corporation to hire goods transport vehicles meeting environmental norms to ferry essential goods every Wednesday. The same would be applicable till September.Advocate Gaurav Parkar, representing the petitioner, objected to once a week vehicular access stating the needs of the residents would remain unfulfilled and urged that the frequency be increased. The court accepted the same and modified the monitoring committee’s decision to allow environment compliant vehicles ply thrice a week and disposed of the petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-allows-vehicular-access-to-matheran-thrice-a-week-for-essential-goods/story-o23mGVvKPPMpheB8VaofGM.html
16-05-2020||City||32-year-old TV actor kills self, no suicide note found||A 32-year-old television actor ended his life at his Kharghar apartment on Friday night. The police said no suicide note was found and they are investigating the reason.The actor lived at a rented apartment in Kharghar with his wife. He has acted in a Sony SAB show, Aadat se Majboor. On Friday night, his wife found his body in the bedroom.“We will record his wife’s statement to ascertain if he was suffering from depression or had any financial problem. We have registered an accidental death report,” said Pradip Tidar, senior inspector at Kharghar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/32-year-old-tv-actor-kills-self-no-suicide-note-found/story-bsspB2x5Hc3ICc7Eihkg8L.html
16-05-2020||Chandigarh||Separated from family due to lockdown, Bapu Dham man stabs himself||Depressed over separation from his family due to the Covid-19 lockdown, a 30-year-old man tried to end his life by stabbing himself in Bapu Dham Colony (BDC) on Saturday.Police said the man, lives with his four brothers and mother in the colony.“His wife and kid have been stuck in Ludhiana due to restriction in movement amid the lockdown. This left him depressed,” said a cop, privy to the matter.On Friday night, he stabbed himself near the rib cage. Hearing his screams, his brother ran to his aid and informed the police. The youth was rushed to the Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH) in Sector 16, for treatment. Sector 26 police station officials have initiated an investigation in the case, but have yet to register a case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/separated-from-family-due-to-lockdown-bapu-dham-man-stabs-himself/story-D0Km1XPeAS74ad5STCKubM.html
16-05-2020||City||Here’s how to live the beautiful life, like your grandparents did||“Oh! He’s got the new iPhone”. Your eyes spot the device in your neighbour’s hand, triggering off a cascade of thoughts. “What a wonderful phone! Perhaps, I should buy it too. Sadly, though, my pocket does not allow it, but then, the great online sale is about to begin, and that too with monthly installment (EMI) options”. So, either you end up buying the phone on EMI and jeopardising your bank balance or you get all frustrated and dissatisfied at the prospect of not being able to afford the phone.Often, family time in the evening is devoted to discussions around thoda hai thode ki zaroorat hai (have little, want little) and ends up with zindagi isi liye yahan jhand hai (that’s why life is such a hit).At bedtime, only a few lucky ones get to sleep in the blink of an eye. The majority need mobile phones as lullaby and social media as a soothing thapki (caress). Then there are some helpless creatures, who, in spite of all efforts, keep tossing and turning in their beds only to get up more exhausted the next day.One wonders how it was when our grandparents were young and able to welcome each day with a smile and sleep peacefully at night. The sky was their mobile phone screen, the humming of mosquitoes their lullaby, their own thoughts lulling them to sleep, as gentle as a mother’s touch. Daily visits to the temple, feeding beggars and stray animals were musts. They also had little, but still thought the world was khoobsurat (beautiful.) The only means of transport then was a bicycle or a gyarah (eleven) number bus. They lived in an age when life was tougher than it is today.SECRETS OF BEING CONTENTEDSo what made them happy and contented? Was it stargazing? Was it riding the bicycle? I think it was a combination of all their activities. For our ancestors it was a part of their lives, done automatically. For us, it can be a change we can adapt, mindfully, on the chessboard of our lives.In those good old days when there was little of electronic media, the stargazing helped our grandparents think about their life, daily routine, needs and wants, their shortcomings and ways to improve them.If we could take some time out each night to impartially judge ourselves, we could be better persons. Our lives are full of mosquitoes of ‘wants’ and problems, we can either crib and spend sleepless nights or sleep peacefully under a protective “net” of acceptance, acknowledging life as it is and not comparing it with others.Acceptance of our ‘life’s situation’ is the trump card in our battle of life. If taken in the right spirit it can make us winners and, if not, it could mean getting checkmated.OPENING THE HEARTIt is said that sharing what you have makes you free and opens your heart for love and compassion. Our elders practiced it by feeding beggars or stray animals; we could do the same by visiting and making donations for destitute homes. Such gestures make us appreciate what we have: A healthy, happy and wholesome life; something which we forget to acknowledge when we hanker after things we do not have.Walking or riding a bicycle was how our grandparents commuted, and it became their daily workout routine. Research has proved that physical activity or exercising releases ‘endorphins’ in the body that triggers positive feelings. So, why not exercise, run, walk or even dance to feel good?Our life is a chessboard on which we have the dark squares of problems and pains, as well as white squares of peace and pleasures. We must step on both the squares to move forward.Unlike the game of chess, however, we have enemies inside us as well asoutside, defeating the one inside will automatically disarm the other.Our grandparents won the game. Let us continue the legacy.(The author is a pharmacist. She can be contacted at bassipallavi1@gmail.com)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/here-s-how-to-live-the-beautiful-life-like-your-grandparents-did/story-rQuUu8DZZfMD90imyxNZJO.html
16-05-2020||Patna||Bihar reports 46 new Coronavirus cases, state tally at 1,079||Forty-six more people have tested positive for Covid-19 in Bihar, taking the total number of cases in the state to 1,079, a senior health department official said here on Saturday. Principal Secretary (Health) Sanjay Kumar said these 46 samples tested positive for the virus on Friday. Among the fresh cases, five have been reported from Patna district where the tally has gone up to 105. While one is a 14-year-old girl from the rural Bakhtiyarpur area, the remaining four are male personnel of the Bihar Military Police’s 14th battalion, he said. The number of BMP-14 personnel, stationed at Khajpura locality in the city, who have been found infected till date has now reached 25. The chain of infection in the area began with a 32-year-old woman from Bijli Gali by-lane testing positive last month upon being admitted to AIIMS, Patna with breathing trouble. Within a few days, nearly 20 residents of the by-lane fell prey to the contagion which also spread to nearby localities like Raja Bazar and a slum located close to the Bihar Public Service Commission office on Bailey Road. At least five barracks of BMP-14, besides Bijli Gali, the slum close to BPSC and Machhli Gali by-lane in Raja Bazar have been declared as containment zones, Patna District Magistrate Kumar Ravi said, adding that the lockdown is being enforced in the strictest form in these localities. Seven more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Jamui district, which reported its first case on May 12 and now has altogether 10 patients, the principal secretary said. Eighteen more cases were reported from Banka district while 10 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Sheikhpura, three in Katihar and two in Aurangabad. A two-year-old boy tested positive for Covid-19 in Munger district which accounts for the maximum number of 123 confirmed cases. All the 38 districts in the state have been affected by the pandemic and those with a high incidence also include Rohtas (77), Kaimur (66) and Buxar (59). The number of cases in Bihar has risen sharply since the beginning of the month, mainly because of migrants returning to their native places in large numbers by special trains in addition to other modes of transport. According to the state health department, 427 migrants arriving since May 4 have tested positive for Covid-19. Most of them had come from Delhi (112), Gujarat (106) and Maharashtra (97). Close to three lakh migrants have returned to the state from other parts of the country in ‘Shramik Special’ trains while the total number, including those coming by buses, trucks, bicycles and on foot, is estimated to be in excess of a million. Till date, 44,398 samples have been tested in the state and efforts were on to enhance the testing capacity drastically to contain the infection. At present, testing of samples is held at four places in Patna and one each in Muzaffarpur, Darbhanga and Bhagalpur. The rate of testing was adversely affected because the testing facility at Bhagalpur ran short of cartridges on Friday, though the principal secretary said replenishment will be ensured at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-reports-46-new-coronavirus-cases-state-tally-at-1-079/story-4QOD1HV72zlBgH8b4bWHFJ.html
16-05-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan reports 177 new cases as Covid-19 count nears 5,000||Rajasthan on Saturday reported 177 Covid-19 cases, 116 of them from the Jaipur district jail, as the infection tally jumped to 4,924 in the state, officials said. Among the fresh cases, the highest number of 122 were reported from Jaipur, the officials said. They said the district jail accounts for 116 of the fresh coronavirus cases from Jaipur.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage Besides, 21 cases were reported from Dungarpur, nine from Udaipur, six from Jodhpur, four from Ajmer, two from Sirohi and one each from Ajmer, Barmer, Bharatpur, Jhunjhunu, Sikar, Pali and Kota, an official said. The total of number of Covid-19 cases in the desert state as of 2 pm on Saturday is 4,924, the officials said. The state has so far recorded 125 novel coronavirus deaths. The officials said 2,785 people have recovered from the infection, leaving 2,014 active cases in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-reports-177-new-cases-as-covid-19-count-nears-5-000/story-72Rknbpg8YhgJuqk2JhdCI.html
16-05-2020||Ranchi||Ensure no one in Jharkhand reaches home on foot: CM Soren to officials||Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren on Saturday asked district administrations to ensure no worker travels on foot to reach home within or outside the state during the lockdown due to coronavirus. The instruction came in the wake of reports of several people walking on the highways to return to their native places. All officials of the districts and the police should ensure that any person, be it from Jharkhand or outside, should not walk to his/her destination, Soren said. He asked officials to take care of such people and directed that they be sent to their destination in groups in buses after undergoing a medical test. Soren instructed officials to take care of people of other states and approach their respective nodal officers to ensure that they reach their destinations. It is our responsibility to see that no shramik (worker) faces any difficulty at the borders of Jharkhand, the chief minister said. Following the chief minister’s instruction Jharkhand director general of police M V Rao directed all district senior superintendents of police and SPs to coordinate with the deputy commissioners concerned to ensure compliance on a priority basis, a statement by the state government said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/ensure-no-one-in-jharkhand-reaches-home-on-foot-cm-soren-to-officials/story-G72Y6rrSfVIlsP1VxH7INM.html
16-05-2020||City||Special trains from Panipat ferry 2,840 migrant labourers to Bihar||Two special trains from Panipat district on Saturday ferried 2,840 migrant labourers back home to Bihar. The trains are bound for Barauni and Gaya railway stations in Bihar.Panipat deputy commissioner Hema Sharma, superintendent of police Manisha Chaudhary, local politicians and other officials visited the railway station to meet the labourers and ensure that they maintain social distancing while travelling in the train. The migrant labourers had been camping at shelter homes in the district for last couple of weeks as industries remained shut due to the lockdown. “It is a big day for us as we are going back home,” said a migrant laborer Ranjti Shah,28, who left for Patna with his two younger brothers.Sita Kumar of Allahabad said, “We were hopeless about returning back home. Now, we are thankful to the government for making the arrangements.”The DC said medical examination of all passengers was done before they boarded the trains and they will be provided food and water during the journey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/special-trains-from-panipat-ferry-2-840-migrant-labourers-to-bihar/story-q1i0ubCbxwl2WfXR1j6SWK.html
16-05-2020||City||Couple dies in hit-and-run on flyover in Ludhiana||A 50-year-old man and his 47-year-old wife died after a speeding truck hit their motorcycle on the flyover near Sherpur Chowk on Saturday morning. The deceased have been identified as Mehar Singh and Surjit Kaur of Hawas village. Sub-inspector Davinder Singh, Sherpur police post in-charge, said the couple had gone to Beeja village of Khanna to meet their son, who is a priest at a gurudwara, and were returning home when a speeding truck hit their bike. The couple died on the spot.The truck driver escaped the spot after the incident. Police are scanning the closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras in the area to trace the truck.A case under Sections 279 (rash driving), 304-A (causing death by negligence) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against unidentified truck driver.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/couple-dies-in-hit-and-run-on-flyover-in-ludhiana/story-XOgCPDx9xEaE9En3mzsA8I.html
16-05-2020||City||Vegetable vendor found murdered in Rupnagar||Police have started a murder probe after the body of a 45-year-old man was found at Ghanauli village near Rupnagar on Saturday.The deceased was identified as Surjit Kumar of Thali Khurd village. He was missing since Friday. The body bore wounds inflicted by a sharp-edged weapon.Deceased’s son Balwinder Kumar said his father was a vegetable vendor, and left home on Friday to collect money from someone. When he didn’t return home, they started searching for him and also informed the police, he said.On Saturday, Surjit’s body was found near the grain market in Ghanauli village. Rupnagar Sadar station house officer (SHO) Tilak Raj said a case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code had been registered against the unidentified assailants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/vegetable-vendor-found-murdered-near-rupnagar/story-BZTdRYRUHwFEnEyD9NvNgM.html
16-05-2020||City||Optimism makes the world go round||At a pre-lockdown get-together, a dear uncle asked me to share ideas on positive thinking. He might have found asking me worthwhile, since I have a background in psychology. However, positive thinking, in a nutshell, is actually nothing more than looking at a glass half full. But, when it comes to its real-life applications, we struggle, we stumble, and we strive. It seems to elude most of us. Or, so we think.The moment the lady of the house gets up at 6 am to prepare breakfast and tiffin boxes, she, without saying or realising so, is presuming it to be a normal day with her loved ones’ routines proceeding in a predictable manner. She is presuming structure and safety. Isn’t that positive thinking? And she has role(s) throughout these routines, that, she’ll be trying to do full justice to. That’s the application part.Doesn’t getting treated by an ophthalmologist for cataract after not being able to read a newspaper’s fine print translate to hope (and action taken) for regularity and continuity – something that’s indicative of optimism?Even when we admonish our younger ones for not studying: Doesn’t the energy we expend reflect the dreams and desires we harbour for our progeny?Life, with its daily mundane nature itself, is positive thinking.BEGINNING OF A JOURNEYYes, we do need to cultivate and train our minds further in this art, but that will remain only a remote possibility till this humdrum positive thinking is understood and assimilated. From there, the real journey will begin. And once that beginning is made, there’s no looking back.There can be multitude theories and techniques, both fancy and plain, for developing a positive mindset. Less of complaining. Yes! Gratitude journaling. Yes! Expecting good things. Yes! Yoga. Yes! Reframing challenges with terminology of opportunities. Yes!All the same, optimism doesn’t translate to being happy all the time. A positive thinker has a cent percent right to have bad days, low mood, and even irritability. But the conviction with which efforts will be put into overcoming these states of mind will make a difference. A Facebook post once read, “We think that the point is to pass the test or overcome the problem, but the truth is that things don’t really get solved. They come together and they fall apart. Then they come together again and fall apart again. It’s just like that, the healing comes from letting there be room for all this to happen; room for grief, for relief, for misery, for joy.” Never have words struck home more.TO BE RESILIENT, FLEXIBLEEspecially in these days of lockdown, it’s the hope of a return to normalcy that is sustaining us. We are all counting days as we lovingly allow the pet to lick our hands. We are anticipating a healthier environment once corona disappears, as we bask in the playfulness of the toddlers at home. We are helping loved ones kill monotony by performing a group-dance on old musical numbers within the family. We are displaying faith as we play antakshari to overcome drudgery. These times are also presenting chances to us for building resilience and flexibility. That is positive thinking.So, let’s breathe, and keep working to clear the roadblocks in the journey of life. But, let’s not forget to smile as we do this. Also, let us also keep attempting to put smiles on others’ faces. Borrowing a few lines from the Internet: “Chalo chupke se rakh aatey hain, khushhaali unke sirhaane mein, jinhein arsa beet gaya hai, khulkar muskuraaey huey (Come, let us quietly leave happiness/prosperity by their bedside – those who for ages have not smiled).”It is indeed in giving that we receive. So, let’s deliver an upbeat outlook.(The author is assistant professor (psychology) at Rajiv Gandhi Government College, Saha, Ambala)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/optimism-makes-the-world-go-round/story-dhIbshBhwDEVSm9dNdwzmK.html
16-05-2020||City||950 migrant labourers, students from Sirsa leave for Uttar Pradesh in 25 Haryana roadways buses||As many as 950 stranded migrant labourers and students from Uttar Pradesh were evacuated from Sirsa in 25 Haryana roadways buses arranged by the district administration on Saturday.The buses with the stranded passengers were sent from Radha Soami Satsang Ghar, about 2km away from the city, to Bulandshahr and Baghpat areas in Uttar Pradesh. Heavy police deployment was in place to maintain law and order. Sirsa deputy superintendent of police Rajesh Kumar said, “On May 13, the administration had arranged 25 buses to send migrant labourers from Sirsa to Uttar Pradesh and now again around 1,000 migrant labourers, who had registered themselves with the Haryana government, were sent to their home state.”He said the Radha Soami Satsang Ghar provided food, mask and hand sanitisers to the migrant labourers as the administration had asked them not to leave the district on foot or cycle.“Maximum labourers belong to Bulandshahr and Baghpat. We have directed the bus driver and conductor to maintain social distancing. The administration is also receiving requests from labourers who belong to Bihar and Madhya Pradesh. However, they will be sent to their respective home states by train. The state and central government are making arrangements for it,” the DSP said.A student, Mamta, said she and her father were stuck in Sirsa since the lockdown was announced. “Finally, we will be able to reach back home. The administration had made good arrangements for the stranded people,” she said.A resident of Jaunpur in Uttar Pradesh, Gulab Chand Mishra, said he had come to Dabwali in search of work and got stranded here after the lockdown was announced. He said proper facilities were available in Sirsa.Meanwhile, as many as 13 people boarded the Haryana roadways bus from Sirsa to Panchkula on Saturday, an official said. The bus started from Sirsa at 8:00am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/950-migrant-labourers-students-from-sirsa-leave-for-uttar-pradesh-in-25-haryana-roadways-buses/story-kKSQpa7e0XNeVuiiGHjnNN.html
16-05-2020||Bangalore||Covid-19 lockdown: Karnataka asks industries to commence operations||Karnataka Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar on Saturday asked the state’s industrial sector which has remained shut for over 50 days due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown to commence operations under new norms such as social distancing and use of masks and sanitisers.Participating in a video conference organised by the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry, Shettar said the Covid-19 pandemic continued to affect normal life in the country.“Yet, we have to open up our economic activities through strict measures of social distancing and other hygienic practices,” the minister was quoted as saying in a press release.Shettar said the package announced by the Centre and the State for the revival of the MSMEs will bring the much- needed dynamism to the economy and enable them emerge from the current phase out with more strength, the press release said.The government was in constant touch with industries, Shettar said, adding “in our State we have already partially opened manufacturing and economic activities as per guidelines set by the Ministry of Home Affairs...and more segments will be opening up.” The minister emphasised on bringing back the credit flow and introducing liberal schemes to support working capital requirement of the MSME sector.Speaking on the occasion, Principal Secretary of Industries Department Gaurav Gupta, said the State government is committed to support the industrial sector which is facing the brunt of the pandemic.“There is no restriction of the industries sector employing 100 per cent of their human resources keeping in mind the safety norms. The department will make all efforts to bring back the workers who have migrated,” he added.In his introductory speech, Ullas Kamath, Chairman of the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry- Karnataka state council, said during the lockdown period FICCI was in constant touch with the government and the Industries department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/covid-19-lockdown-karnataka-asks-industries-to-commence-operations/story-6jvtsPEfjCF3RBl3HykJEK.html
16-05-2020||Lucknow||Over 5.64 lakh migrants brought back to UP in 449 trains so far: Report||A total of 449 trains have so far brought over 5.64 lakh migrants back to Uttar Pradesh, the highest in the country, Additional Chief Secretary Awanish Awasthi on Saturday said.Seventy-three trains are scheduled to arrive on Saturday while permission for 286 trains has been given for Sunday. In this way, about 9.50 lakh migrant labourers and workers have either returned or arrangements for their return have been made,  Awasthi said.More than 15 lakh workers have returned to Uttar Pradesh by trains, buses and other modes of transport till now, the additional chief secretary added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/over-5-64-lakh-migrants-brought-back-to-up-in-449-trains-so-far-report/story-uXsd4JUDjKmF1ozsmqWnBK.html
16-05-2020||Chandigarh||20-year-old killed as truck rams into bike in Gurdaspur||A 20-year-old man was killed in a road mishap at Adda Khanowal Bohrhi village under Ghumman Kalan police station in Gurdaspur on Saturday.The man, identified as Tejinder Singh of Shekh Kabir village, died on the spot when a truck rammed into his bike.Singh was on his way to his village when the mishap took place on the on Batala-Kalanaur road .The truck driver tried to speed away but the police managed to stop the truck and arrest the driver.A case has been registered under Section 304A (negligence not amounting to culpable homicide) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/20-year-old-killed-as-truck-rams-into-bike-in-gurdaspur/story-T0m0C2NL6pRbfDWmGTgkYP.html
16-05-2020||City||Gurdaspur Cooperative Bank launches mobile ATM van||The Gurdaspur Central Co-operative Bank Limited on Saturday launched a mobile ATM van in the district for people’s convenience.Gurdaspur cooperative societies’ deputy registrar Balwinder Singh said here on Saturday that under the directions by Punjab minister for cooperation and jails Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, this step has been taken for the convenience and safety of the customers amid the coronavirus pandemic.He said the ATM van was sent to border village Dorangla on Saturday to help the residents withdraw cash from their accounts.The bank authorities accompanying the ATM van also distributed masks and sanitizers to the villagers, while maintaining social distancing during transactions with the customers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurdaspur-cooperative-bank-launches-mobile-atm-van/story-jwiqkMIHtz0y5rtNj7KKQO.html
16-05-2020||Mumbai||Provide list of maternity homes and childbirths therein since lockdown: HC to BMC||The Bombay high court (HC) has directed the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to file an affidavit enumerating the clinics and maternity homes attending to pregnant women in the city and also the number of deliveries conducted in these medical centres over the past couple of weeks. The directions were issued in response to a public interest litigation (PIL) seeking appropriate measures to be put in place for the care and treatment of expecting women.The PIL was filed by advocate Mohiuddin Vaid after he came across a news report about a pregnant woman who was refused admission to four hospitals, including JJ Hospital, as she did not have a Covid negative report.On Friday, the division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice AA Sayed while hearing the PIL filed by Vaid through video conferencing, was informed of the news report wherein an expecting woman was refused admission to the hospitals and had to deliver her baby at home with the help of a midwife.In light of this submission, Vaid sought directions for appropriate measures to be put in place for expecting women to be attended to. However, state lawyer Jyoti Chavan opposed the allegation and said that no such incident was reported at JJ Hospital.Senior counsel Anil Sakhare for the BMC submitted that there were a number of maternity homes and clinics catering to the needs of expecting women and the woman could have availed their services. Sakhare sought time from the court to clarify the corporation’s position on the same.The court accepted Sakhare’s request and directed the civic body to file a response. “BMC should indicate the names and particulars of maternity homes and clinics which are attending to expecting women and the number of deliveries that have been conducted in such maternity homes and clinics over the past couple of weeks,” the bench said posting the next hearing for May 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/provide-list-of-maternity-homes-and-childbirths-therein-since-lockdown-hc-to-bmc/story-40aE3Ht57hxDCu2gKAHkBJ.html
16-05-2020||Kolkata||Bengal stocks masks, sanitizers at storm shelters as cyclone Amphan nears||The administration in Bengal has started stocking masks, sanitizers and soaps at all cyclone shelters in the coastal districts where thousands of villagers may have to be evacuated amid the Covid-19 pandemic as cyclone Amphan is expected to move towards the state’s coast.“This is for the first time that we are procuring such items – sanitizers and masks – keeping in mind the Covid-19 pandemic. These items would be stored in all the cyclone shelters to prevent any outbreak of the disease when villagers are evacuated before the cyclone and brought to these shelters,” said Subhomoy Bhattacharya, sub-divisional officer of Contai, a coastal area in East Midnapore district.According to the regional meteorological centre of the India Meteorological Department, the depression over Bay of Bengal is likely to intensify into cyclone Amphan over the next 12 hours. Then in another 24 hours it could intensify further into a severe cyclonic storm. It is likely to move towards West Bengal and adjoining coastal areas of Odisha between May 18 and May 20.Thousands of people from villages along the coast and low lying areas are evacuated during a cyclone and brought to cyclone shelters as part of disaster management protocol.“This time because of Covid-19 we also need to maintain social distance. For this we are increasing the number of shelters by roping in school buildings so that there is no crowding in one building,” said Dibyendu Sarkar, Block Development of Officer at Kakdwip in South 24 Parganas, which was hit by cyclone Bulbul in November 2019.In Contai sub-division of East Midnapore, which has a population of 16 lakhs, around 45,000 people had to be evacuated during Bulbul. In Kakdwip 64 school buildings have been identified over and above the 11 cyclone shelters. He said that apart from the food and drinking water that would be stored in the cyclone shelters and schools, soaps, sanitizers and masks are also being stored.“We have already procured 500-800 masks and more than 200 bottles of sanitizers. Masks will be given to those who don’t have one. Most people are now wearing masks and it has already been made mandatory by the government,” he added.West Bengal has three coastal districts – North 24 Parganas, South 24 Parganas and East Midnapore – which usually bear the brunt of cyclones. At around 11:30 am on Saturday the depression was located around 1,200 km south of the Bengal coastline. The state has already started moving in teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and the district administrations have been asked to stay alert and get prepared. Fishermen who have already ventured out have been asked to return as sea condition would get very rough.“We are expecting heavy to very heavy rainfall in some places with winds reaching up to 95 km per hour on May 20,” said a senior official Sanib Bandyopadhyay, deputy director general of meteorology at the regional meteorological centre in Kolkata.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bengal-stocks-masks-sanitizers-at-storm-shelters-as-cyclone-amphan-nears/story-KLJYzZ527DTtqNn3YqO8GI.html
16-05-2020||City||Mustard growers in Haryana await payment for procured crop||Even as Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had claimed that mustard growers will be paid within 72 hours of procurement of their produce, many of them in Bhiwani, Dadri, Mahendergarh and other parts of the state have been awaiting the payment for their crop since April 29. The government is procuring mustard (40 quintals maximum from a farmer in one go) at ₹4,425 per quintal minimum support price across 165 centres in the state. Mohit Kumar, a farmer from Dadri’s Jitpura village, said he had sold 32 quintals of mustard last week at ₹4,425 per quintal. However, the government has not transferred any money into his account so far.“I urgently need ₹30,000 to release payment for harvesting and threshing to labourers. The government’s claim of providing procurement amount within 72 hours has fallen flat,” Kumar said.Another farmer Gurmukh Singh of Bhiwani’s Garwa village said he is waiting for the payment for his mustard produce since April 29.“I visited the bank twice to ask whether the government has transferred the payment in my account. Amid the Coronavirus scare, we (farmers) are the only ones who sold their produce without taking any money in advance. Except us, everyone is selling their products by taking the money first. The government should release our payment at the earliest so that we can buy fertilisers for cotton crop,” Singh said.Arhitiyas worried over slow lifting of cropMeanwhile, the Arhitiyas in the state have alleged that the slow lifting of mustard and inadequate arrangements for the same has increased their worries.Sushil Kumar, a commission agent in Bhiwani’s Behal said they had loaded a truck with mustard on Tuesday and it is still standing outside a government godown, which is hardly 1.5km from the mandi.“Due to poor arrangements, the truck drivers have to wait in queue for four to five days for their turn to unload mustard crop at government godowns,” Kumar said.A market committee official, on condition of anonymity, said procurement agencies— the Haryana State Cooperative Supply and Marketing Federation Limited (HAFED) and Haryana State Warehousing Corporation (HSWC) have made payment to mustard growers who had sold their produce till April 28 and April 23 respectively.Bhiwani deputy commissioner Ajay Kumar said he has issued instructions to clear the payment of mustard procurement in the district. “I have discussed this issue with concerned officials, who assured me of sorting out payment of farmers at the earliest,” the DC said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mustard-growers-in-haryana-await-payment-for-procured-crop/story-AYucO7FKkIADxqRntzQ4DJ.html
16-05-2020||Chandigarh||Farmers observe Kisan Samman Diwas, reject Centre’s economic package||Members of 10 farmer outfits observed Kisan Samman Diwas in 17 districts of Punjab on Saturday.Rejecting the Centre’s economic package, farmers in Sangrur, Barnala, Mansa, Bathinda, Patiala, Moga, Jalandhar, Amritsar, Ludhiana, Ferozepur, Tarn Taran, Fatehgarh Sahib, Faridkot, Nawanshahr, Kapurthala, Pathankot and Gurdaspur, waved flags on their rooftops and held marches in streets.Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU, Dakaunda) state-secretary Jagmohan Singh said, “Farmers are ‘corona food warriors’ but the Centre and state governments are introducing ‘anti-farmer’ policies in the country.“The Centre has ignored the importance of farmers. We reject economic package announced by the Modi government which is a ‘jumla’. The debt of farmers should be waived off without any condition,” said Jagmohan Singh.“The prices of diesel should be reduced to Rs 22 per litre for farmers as has been done by the government for Air Turbine fuel,” he said.Singh said that the announced package of Rs 2 lakh crore loans for 2.5 crore farmers with 2% interest amounts to a relief of just Rs 4,000 crore and not the mega amount being projected. “Even then, it is not clear whether the interest subvention of 2% is over and above the 3% interest subvention already being given or shall be in place of that,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/farmers-observe-kisan-samman-diwas-reject-centre-s-economic-package/story-l9ychb9mX7jfWb8sX4y1jM.html
16-05-2020||Pune||Southern Command appreciates efforts of PCDA for timely release of pay, allowances during lockdown||Officials from the Southern Command on Wednesday visited the Office of Principal Controller of Defence Accounts (Officers) to express their gratitude for continuing to render their service and timely release of pay and allowances of at least 53,000 officers of the Indian Army.Maj Gen Tejinder Jaggi, MG EME, HQ SC and Brig Sandeep Sehgal, Dy Provost Marshal, Military Police, visited the PCDA(O) and handed over sweets to the staff to acknowledge the tireless efforts put in by them.In his address, Maj Gen Jaggi said, “Officials of PCDA(O) led by Nirupama Kajla, IDAS, PCDA, have put in relentless efforts in the pay accounting services amidst the nationwide lockdown in spite of the atmosphere of fear and severe restrictions on movements of people in Pune being a red zone.”“All these efforts have gone a long way in keeping the morale of the army officers high especially in these challenging times and deserves appreciation,” said Maj Gen Jaggi.On this occasion, Kajla, IDAS, PCDA(O), said, “Despite severe restrictions imposed by local civil and police authorities during the lockdown since March 25, this office has ensured that salary of serving army officers and retirement dues of 86 officers, who retired in March 2020 and 62 officers, who retired in April 2020 were timely released.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/southern-command-appreciates-efforts-of-pcda-for-timely-release-of-pay-allowances-during-lockdown/story-af7GvJNMJXrtXmFyvOGxeP.html
16-05-2020||Chandigarh||Labourer murders wife for objecting to his affair in Ludhiana, held||A labourer, who poisoned, bludgeoned and strangulated his wife to death, was arrested on Friday, eight days after her death.The accused, Mohammad Rivani, told the police that he had been plotting to kill his second wife, Shakeela Bibi, whom he had married in 2018, for a month as she had been objecting to his extramarital affair with a married woman.Rivani told the police that he had first mixed rat poison in Shakeela’s food and after she had consumed it, he had taken her to an isolated area on the pretext of collecting firewood. Once Shakeela lost consciousness, he bludgeoned her with a baseball bat. Finally, he used her dupatta to strangulate her to confirm that she was really dead. The police have recovered the baseball bat and dupatta used to commit the crime.ACCUSED CAUGHT WHILE TRYING TO ESCAPE He dumped her body in a pit in Dhandhran village and fled.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City-2) Jaskaranjit Singh Teja said Shakeela’s body had been kept in the mortuary for 72 hours, till she could be identified.On May 11, the police identified the victim as Shakeela Bibi, 30, of Alamgir village and later booked her husband for murder, said the ADCP.The police conducted multiple raids to arrest Rivani. On Friday, the police arrested the accused while he was trying to escape the city to evade arrest.“Rivani was having an extramarital affair with a married woman. He had brought the woman to his house. The woman had stayed with the couple in their home for few days before her family traced her and took her with them,” said the ADCP.“Rivani confessed that his wife had become a hurdle in his extramarital affair so he decided to murder her,” Teja said.Rivani had married Shakeela after his first wife Jafreena.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/labourer-murders-wife-for-objecting-to-his-affair-in-ludhiana-held/story-Z3KuAp7WeS5bv7jSwv4SsJ.html
16-05-2020||Pune||Researchers at IISER, Pune design low-cost ventilator||Researchers of the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Pune (IISER), have developed a low-cost ventilator, which is a hybrid version of US and Italian ventilators for the ICU (intensive care unit).This will bridge the gap between the demand and supply during the ongoing Covid-19 (coronavirus) crisis to treat patients, say researchers.Umakant Rapol and Sunil Nair, both associate professors at IISER, have developed a low-cost ventilator which they have put together with readily available material. The researchers are now looking to get in touch with manufacturers to produce this model.“We started work on the project on April 2 and we finished it by April 20. After which we are working on the calibrating and packaging the device so that it can be in some presentable form,” said Rapol.“We have developed a hybrid version of both the designs which we were studying because of the unavailability of the components that were used in designing those two ventilators. So we came up with our own build of materials and designed the ventilator,” said Rapol.“One advantage of this device is one can monitor the ventilator, parameters of the patients remotely and also through a mobile phone,” said Rapol.The other members of the team consisted of technical officer Nilesh Dumbre, IISER Pune alumni Sainath Motlakunta, now a PhD student at Institute for Quantum Computing, Waterloo, Canada; and Mohammad Noaman, now a postdoctoral fellow at University of Southern Denmark, Odense, Denmark.Nair said, “The genesis of the ventilator in IISER started when our international office got in touch with Umakant, and later me, to help in the design and development of a mechanical ventilator which is known as a ‘Bharucha ventilator’.”“While doing that we realised that was a very basic machine which would not suffice for the use of Covid-19 patients. At around the same time we got to know about a couple of open-source ventilators which had been released. One of them was called Mechanical Ventilator Milano (MVM) from Milan and the other one was an open-source ventilator from Florida. That got us thinking about how we could try and implement these ventilators in our context” said Nair.“It is simple, efficient as well as incorporates most of the design requirements from which ventilators who cater to Covid-19 patients have,” added Nair.“While we were navigating through the development of this project we got tremendous support from the institution in terms of funding which was needed and in terms of logistics needed,” added Rapol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/researchers-at-iiser-pune-design-low-cost-ventilator/story-32KEvel8NdUZCmrKR1jxuN.html
16-05-2020||Kolkata||Cyclone Amphan likely to intensify into ‘severe cyclonic storm’ by today evening: IMD||With cyclone Amphan moving towards the east coast of the country, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast that with wind speeds reaching up to 55-65 kmph and gusting up to 75 kmph, a cyclone system will form over the Bay of Bengal and is likely to intensify into a ‘cyclonic storm’ by today evening. “The well-marked low pressure area over southeast Bay of Bengal concentrated into depression has formed over Southeast Bay of Bengal and lay centred at 0530 hrs IST of today, the 16th May, 2020 near latitude 10.4°N and longitude 87.0°E, about 1100 km south of Paradip (Odisha), 1250 km south of Digha (West Bengal) and 1330 km south-southwest of Khepupara (Bangladesh),” IMD Kolkata said in a statement.“It is very likely to intensify rapidly into a Cyclonic Storm by today evening and further into a severe cyclonic storm during subsequent 24 hours. It is very likely to move north-northwestwards initially till 17th May and then re-curve north-northeastwards across northwest Bay of Bengal towards West Bengal coast during 18th to 20th May 2020,” the statement further read.The IMD has also advised fishermen not to venture into the waters off the Andhra coast and Odisha-West Bengal coast from May 18 onwards.Those who are already in sea have been advised to return by tomorrow (May 17).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/cyclone-amphan-likely-to-intensify-into-severe-cyclonic-storm-by-today-evening-imd/story-AiNTLZGTWfDGx6pKqjNKFI.html
16-05-2020||Kolkata||Cyclonic storm brewing in Bay of Bengal, several coastal districts to experience heavy rain from Tuesday||A cyclonic storm brewing in the Bay of Bengal lay 1,220 km south-southwest of Digha in West Bengal on Saturday morning, and is likely to bring heavy to very heavy rain in the coastal districts of the state from May 19, the Met office said here.The system is likely to intensify into a severe cyclonic storm by Sunday evening and move north-northwestwards till May 17, Regional Met Director G K Das said.It is very likely to recurve north-northeastwards thereafter towards the West Bengal coast during May 18 to 20, he said.Under its impact, the coastal districts of Gangetic West Bengal, including North and South 24 Parganas, Kolkata, East and West Midnapore, Howrah and Hooghly will experience heavy to very heavy rain on May 19 and 20, Das said.Fishermen have been advised not to venture into north Bay of Bengal along and off West Bengal-Odisha coasts from May 18 to 21, and those who are out in the sea were asked to return to coasts by May 17.Sea condition will be very high to phenomenal over north Bay of Bengal on May 19 and 20, Das said.Wind speeds along and off the coastal areas of West Bengal will reach 45 to 55 kmph with gusts of 65 kmph from May 19 afternoon, and will gradually increase to 75 to 85 kmph with gusts up to 90 kmph from the morning of May 20, the weatherman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/cyclonic-storm-brewing-in-bay-of-bengal-several-coastal-districts-to-experience-heavy-rain-from-tuesday/story-jQ2T69Yf1TWaFDUSsUuoeM.html
16-05-2020||Chandigarh||Curfew relaxations reinstated in two Gurdaspur villages, two other affected pockets||Curfew relaxations were reinstated in two Gurdaspur villages and two other affected pockets in the city on Saturday. The relaxations were implemented on the recommendation of Gurdaspur sub-divisional magistrate Skattar Singh Bal and district magistrate Mohammad Ishfaq. Bhaini Paswal village of Kahnuwan block was declared a containment zone on April 14, after a 60-year-old man, Sansar Singh, tested positive for the disease and later passed away at Government Hospital, Amritsar.On April 20, Bhattian village in Kahnuwan block was declared a containment zone after three of a family, who had returned from Nanded, tested positive for the disease.On May 3, Sant Nagar and the adjoining Bajwa Colony in Gurdaspur city, were declared containment zones after the sample of a 23-year-old man came out positive.The administration had declared the areas containment zones and retracted all relaxations after positive cases in these zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/curfew-relaxations-reinstated-in-two-gurdaspur-villages-two-other-affected-pockets/story-BRtKgqIZ5UpmvBI39OUKeP.html
16-05-2020||Lucknow||UP govt announces compensation for Auraiya road mishap victims||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday announced Rs 2 lakh compensation for the family of the deceased and Rs 50,000 for those injured in the Auraiya accident, an official said.According to the official, Station House Officer of Fatehpur Sikri and Kosi Kalan have been suspended with immediate effect.“Fatehpur Sikri Agra, SHO and Kosi Kalan, Mathura SHO suspended with immediate effect on directions of CM Yogi Adityanath. CM has sought a report from SSP, IG, and ADG and announced a compensation of Rs 2 lakhs for families of deceased persons and Rs 50000 for injured,” an official said.Earlier, 24 labourers were killed and several injured after the truck they were traveling in, collided with another truck in Uttar Pradesh’s Auraiya district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-govt-announces-compensation-for-auraiya-road-mishap-victims/story-IGLQmX9LWa72TyL7hJN3ML.html
16-05-2020||Bangalore||Covid-19 lockdown: Karnataka courts to remain closed till June 6||District judiciary, family courts, labour courts and industrial tribunals in Karnataka will remain closed till June 6.The news came to light after the Registrar General Rajendra Badamikar rolled out a notification on the same.“As per this office Notifications dated 25.03.2020, 16.04.2020 and 30.04.2020, the closure of all the District Judiciary, Family Courts, Labour Courts and Industrial Tribunals in the State upto 16.05.2020 were notified. Further, the period of closure of all the District Judiciary, Family Courts, Labour Courts and Industrial Tribunals in the State is hereby extended till 06.06.2020 for the purpose of Section 4 of the Limitation Act, 1963,” read the notification.According to the Health Ministry, Karnataka so far has recorded 987 positive cases of coronavirus, out of which 460 have been cured and 35 have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/covid-19-lockdown-karnataka-courts-to-remain-closed-till-june-6/story-qvn0GAKaKBtZMEK0vqiqeM.html
16-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s Covid-19 tally crosses 9,000, casualties rise to 129||The coronavirus death toll in Delhi rose to 129 on Saturday after six more people died in the last 24 hours, the Delhi government said in its health bulletin.A total of 438 new cases were reported during the same period taking the national capital’s Covid-19 tally to 9,333.There are now 5,278 active cases while 3,926 have recovered. The Delhi government has also increased its rate of testing which now stands at 6,978 tests per million of population.Delhi had recorded its highest single-day spike in Covid-19 on Thursday with 472 new cases.Since May 10, Delhi has been recording more than 300 cases of Covid-19 per day. The daily count has crossed the 400 mark four times including on Saturday since May 10.In another development, four more areas (serial numbers 22, 23, 24 and 25) have been removed from containment zones in the national capital. The total number of containment zones in the national capital now stands at 77.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-9-000-casualties-rise-to-129/story-4yl6bNvlipAygUMdi9BBeN.html
16-05-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka reports 23 new Covid-19 cases, total cases in state at 1,079||As many as 23 new coronavirus cases were confirmed in Karnataka on Saturday, taking the number of affected in the state to 1,079, the health department said.The total cases include 494 discharges, 548 active cases, 36 coronavirus deaths and that of a coronavirus patient due to non-Covid cause, the department said in its daily bulletin.Of the fresh cases, 14 were from Bengaluru urban district alone, followed by three in Hassan and one each in Mandya, Udupi, Dharwad, Davangere, Ballari and Davangere.The 23 cases include two women and a one-year-old baby girl from Udupi.The biggest contributor of Saturday’s tally was Bengaluru, where 14 people tested positive for the disease. They were secondary contacts of a house keeper in a hotel in the capital city, the health department sources said.The three positive cases from Haasan and one from Dharwad had travel history to Mumbai, whereas the Udupi girl had an international travel history. She had returned from Dubai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-reports-23-new-covid-19-cases-total-cases-in-state-at-1-079/story-iVyLKbgX7qQLHBXjUtIweK.html
16-05-2020||Chandigarh||CITU demands amendment of labour laws, payment of March-April salaries||The Centre of Indian Trade Union (CITU) has submitted a memorandum to chief minister Jai Ram Thakur demanding payment of workers’ salaries and amendment of labour laws.CITU state president Vijendra Mehra said due to the outbreak of coronavirus pandemic and the lockdown imposed to contain its spread workers and labourers had suffered the most.“Many workers have been laid off during the lockdown and many industrial workers have not been paid salaries for March-April,” he said.Through the memorandum, CITU has demanded that the salaries and wages of workers are paid immediately as per Payment of Wages Act, 1936, to reverse the decision of extending working hours, pay salaries from eight hours to 12 hours and reverse all amendments in labour laws, which are anti-labour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/citu-demands-amendment-of-labour-laws-payment-of-march-april-salaries/story-P2O9NYGiqEwXoq1B0sjFhN.html
16-05-2020||Mumbai||Water stock in Maharashtra dams 3-times more than last year||Even as the coronavirus situation in Maharashtra is grim, there is some solace for the state as far as the water stock is concerned as it has reported nearly three times more useful storage as compared to the corresponding period last year.The state had faced successive years of drought over the past few years. However, most parts of the state had received good rainfall last year.According to a Maharashtra government report of May 15, the 3,267 major, medium and minor projects across the state collectively reported live (useful) storage of 17,066.71 million cubic metre, which is 41.73 per cent of their total capacity of holding 40,897.95 million cubic metres live stock.On May 15 last year, the collective stock available across these dams was 14.92 per cent.Some major dams, including Manjara (in Beed) in the Marathwada region, which witnesses parched swathes during the summer, however, have run out of their useful content this year as they had in the last season too.The nine major dams in the Aurangabad division of Marathwada have 1,798.89 million cubic metre stock till now, which is 43.9 per cent of 4,097.77 million cubic metre collective storage capacity of live storage.Last year, the stock available across these dams in Aurangabad, Beed, Hingoli, Nanded, Osmanabad and Parbhani districts was just 0.44 per cent.The Jayakwadi dam at Paithan in Aurangabad district, a key project in the region, had dried (in terms of live stock) last year. However, this year, it has reported a big leap of 1,017.91 million cubic metre live stock, that is 46.89 per cent of its capacity of holding 2,170.93 million cubic metre useful storage.Similarly, the dams in Majalgaon (Beed), Yeldari and Siddeshwar (Hingoli) and Lower Terna (Osmanabad) recorded relatively better stock this year.The dams like Manjara, Sina Kolegaon (Osmanabad) and Lower Dudhana dams, however, have run out of their useful stock as they had last year.The 10 major dams in the Amravati division of Vidarbha, which too witnessed dry stretches when the temperature soared, have at present 1,190.48 million cubic metre live stock, that is 47.95 per cent of their collective useful storage of 2,482.65 million cubic metre.On the same day last year, the total useful stock available at these dams in the division- which covers districts such as Akola, Amravati, Buldhana and Yavatmal- was 16 per cent.The Khadakpurna and Pentakali dams, which ran into dead storage last year, have reported 29.35 per cent and 81.83 per cent of their respective total useful stock holding capacity now.In the Nagpur division of the region, the live stock available in the 15 major dams was 1,755.41 million cubic metre, that is, 51.34 per cent of their collective 3,418.87 million cubic metre live stock.In 2019, the live stock available on the corresponding day in the dams in the division that covers districts like Bhandara, Chandrapur, Gadchiroli and Gondia, besides Nagpur was 6.95 per cent.The Gosikhurd (Bhandara) and Nand (Nagpur) dams, which had no live stock left last year, have reported availability of 15.62 per cent and 22.7 per cent of their respective useful storage holding capacity.The Dina dam in Gadchiroli has no live water stock left in it this year too.The six dams in the Konkan region- comprising Palghar, Sindhudurg and Thane- have 49.28 per cent (892.44 million cubic metre) of their collective 1,683.65 million cubic metre capacity live stock as against 31.02 per cent last year.Nashik division’s 24 dams together haveavailable 1,591.86 million cubic metre (42.58 per cent) of their 3,738.75 million cubic metre collective live stock holding capacity.In the previous year, the stock available in the region that covers districts like Ahmednagar, Jalgaon and Nashik, was 11.71 per cent.The Pune region with 29 dams has 4,528.3 million cubic metre (40.14 per cent) live stock available at present of the total live stock holding capacity of 11,281.44 million cubic metre.Last year, the live stock available across these dams in Kolhapur, Pune, Sangli, Satara and Solapur was 13.57 per cent.The Dimbhe, Ghod (Chinchani), Pimpalgaon Joge and Wadaj dams in Pune and Bhima (Ujjani) project in Solapur, which had recorded 0 per cent live stock, are all better placed this year, according to the data.The Temghar dam in Pune, which also reported 0 per cent stock last year, has 2.12 per cent live stock available this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/water-stock-in-maharashtra-dams-3-times-more-than-last-year/story-g8ulxxrbMkyND0AYrCKusM.html
16-05-2020||City||CRPF trooper kills wife, 2 kids before committing suicide in UP’s Prayagraj||A trooper of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) shot dead his wife and two children before committing suicide in Uttar Pradesh’s Prayagraj late on Friday night, police said on Saturday.Bhuvnesh Chaubey, the station house officer of Tharwai police station, said Vinod Kumar Yadav belonged to CRPF’s 224 Battalion and was a driver. He hailed from Sirsa area of Meja tehsil of Prayagraj but lived at the CRPF Group Centre in Padila along with his family.He shot dead his wife Vimla, 15-year-old son Sandeep and 12-year-old daughter Simran. He then committed suicide by shooting himself, he said.“The exact reason behind the jawan’s actions is being ascertained but prima facie an argument and fight with his wife is believed to have been the trigger,” Chaubey said.Senior district police and CRPF officials rushed to the spot as soon as the news of the incident reached them.The bodies have been sent for a post-mortem examination. The family has also been informed about the incident and they are on their way, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/crpf-trooper-kills-wife-2-kids-before-committing-suicide-in-up-s-prayagraj/story-wUEwnXD14eXdj7QtakZjhK.html
16-05-2020||Lucknow||After Auraiya accident, Uttar Pradesh CM hauls up senior police officials, suspends SHOs||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday ordered the suspension of station house officers (SHOs) and sought an explanation from senior police officials in Agra and Mathura after 24 migrant labourers were killed in a road accident Auraiya.Adityanath announced an ex gratia of Rs 2 lakh each to families of the dead migrant workers and Rs 50,000 each for the seriously injured.The chief minister presided over a high-level meeting to review the action being taken in respect to the Auraiya road accident and said circle officers in charges of the two bordering police stations should be given a strict warning.He asked the additional director general of police (ADG) and Agra zone’s inspector general, along with four other top police officers including district police chiefs of Agra and Mathura, to explain the lapses.Cases should be registered against owners of the two trucks involved in the accident under relevant sections and the two vehicles should be seized, he said.Adityanath also urged the people not to travel by trucks or any unsafe vehicle. He said orders have been already issued to keep 200 buses at the disposal of district magistrates (DMs) of border districts. He said funds have also been provided to the DMs to send the migrant labourers back home and the government orders must be followed strictly.Several opposition leaders, including Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati and Congress’ Priyanka Gandhi Vadra questioned the government over the Auraiya accident.Mayawati pointed out that the chief minister had said officers will make arrangements for food, transit and shelter for labourers who come to UP or pass through the state. “It’s unfortunate that CM’s directions are not being taken seriously by officers because of which a big accident occurred in Auraiya,” the BSP chief was quoted as saying by ANI.“I demand the chief minister to take action against the officers who didn’t fulfil their responsibilities. Families of those who were killed or injured in this accident should be provided financial assistance. I express my condolences to the bereaved families,” she added.Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, the Congress general secretary, also lashed out at the government.“Auraiya’s heartbreaking incident has once again raised the question that why hasn’t the government made proper arrangements for workers to go home? Why aren’t buses being run to ferry the labourers in the state?” Priyanka Gandhi tweeted in Hindi.“Either the government does not see anything or is oblivious to everything. Is making statements the government’s only job?” she asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/after-auraiya-accident-uttar-pradesh-cm-hauls-up-senior-police-officials-suspends-shos/story-kKyG6llA2oFUklRtShuO3I.html
16-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM boosts frontline workers’ morale, shares Covid-19 child survivor’s clip||Boosting the morale of frontline Covid-19 warriors, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh shared a video clip of a two-and-a-half-year-old girl who recovered from coronavirus and was discharged from a hospital in Patiala city. The 28-second clip shows the girl receiving flowers. Expressing gratitude, her mother sang a poem, “Doctor, doctor how do you do. We are here to say you thank you. You are great and next to god. We love you a lot, thank you.” In the end, the girl, too, thanks the health workers. Happy to share a short video of a young #Covid19 patient Arshiya, aged 2.5 years, at the time of her discharge from Rajindra Hospital, Patiala. Heartening to see affirmation of their trust in our doctors & healthcare staff. I am sure it will motivate all of us! pic.twitter.com/7HfMNkLcz8“Happy to share a short video of a young Covid-19 patient, aged 2.5 years, at the time of her discharge from Rajindra Hospital, Patiala. Heartening to see affirmation of their trust in our doctors and healthcare staff. I am sure it will motivate all of us!” said the CM in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-cm-boosts-frontline-workers-morale-shares-covid-19-child-survivor-s-clip/story-PKWuMlTJLiuKED8JiG2nlL.html
16-05-2020||Mumbai||Provide list of maternity homes, number of deliveries since lockdown: Bombay high court to BMC||Bombay high court has directed the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to file an affidavit listing clinics and maternity homes attending to pregnant women in Mumbai and also the number of deliveries conducted over the past couple of weeks. The directions were issued after a public interest litigation (PIL) was filed seeking directions for appropriate measures to be put in place for pregnant women to be attended to. The PIL was filed by an advocate who came across a news report that an expecting woman was refused admission to JJ Hospital as she did not have a Covid-19 negative report. Three other hospitals, including a maternity home, also turned away the woman after which she had to deliver her child at home with the help of a midwife.The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice A A Sayed heard the PIL filed by Mohiuddin Vaid through video conferencing on Friday. The bench was informed of the news report.In light of this submission, Vaid who appeared in person sought directions for appropriate measures to be put in place for expecting women.State lawyer Jyoti Chavan opposed the allegation and said that no such incident was reported at JJ Hospital.Senior counsel Anil Sakhare for BMC submitted that there were a number of maternity homes and clinics catering to expecting women and they could avail their services. Sakhare sought time from the court to clarify the corporation’s position on the same.The court accepted Sakhare’s request and directed the civic body to file a response.“BMC should indicate the name and particulars of maternity homes and clinics which are attending to expecting ladies and the number of deliveries that have been conducted in such maternity homes and clinics over the past couple of weeks,” it said.The court also said that after going through the particulars furnished by BMC in its response, the PIL would be disposed of in the next hearing on May 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/provide-list-of-maternity-homes-number-of-deliveries-since-lockdown-bombay-high-court-to-bmc/story-kCGeSy3CGQmjW0soa2XOdP.html
16-05-2020||Chandigarh||Three test positive for Covid-19 in Moga, Faridkot||Three people, including two pilgrims who had returned from Takht Sri Huzur Sahib in Maharashtra’s Nanded, tested positive for the novel coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Moga and Faridkot districts on Saturday.In Moga, two Nanded returnees tested positive for the novel coronavirus disease, taking the district count to 58. One of the positive persons is a resident of Ghaloti village in Kot Ise Khan, while the other is a resident of Moga.Civil surgeon Dr Andesh Kang said both the patients had been admitted to the isolation ward of the civil hospital. “The patients were already in a quarantine centre and are asymptomatic,” Kang said.In Faridkot, a 40-year-old truck driver, who had returned from Jammu, tested positive for Covid-19. Civil surgeon Dr Rajinder Kumar said the patient, a truck driver, had returned to his village from Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) on May 12. “As per protocol, his samples were collected on the same day, which came out to be positive. The patient has been admitted to the isolation wards of Guru Gobind Singh medical College and Hospital (GGSMCH) in Faridkot. We have initiated the contact tracing of the positive patient, while his family members have been home quarantined,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-moga-faridkot/story-dfhAcjX9DHSeoJ8grz1jnO.html
16-05-2020||Lucknow||CBI court to continue Babri Masjid case proceedings via video conferencing||A special CBI court on Friday decided to continue further trial proceedings in the 1992 Babri Masjid demolition case through video-conferencing. The Supreme Court on May 8 had directed the special court to conclude trial proceedings by August 31. Earlier, the trial had to be completed by April 20, but it could not be done due to closure of courts in the wake of the novel coronavirus-induced lockdown.The proceedings were hampered due to the lockdown and hence, the decision has been taken, it said. The case involves BJP leaders LK Advani, MM Joshi, Uma Bharti, VHP leader Champat Rai Bansal, among others.The court has recorded the evidence of all prosecution witnesses which the CBI had produced. It is now proceeding to enable the accused to know as to what evidence was exactly produced against them.Meanwhile, the defence filed an application on Friday to summon three prosecution witnesses for cross examination as they were not earlier cross examined when their evidence in chief was recorded in 2016-17.Taking up the application, special judge S K Yadav asked the defence to furnish the list of specific questions on which it wanted to cross examine these prosecution witnesses.  The court will hear the matter next on May 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/cbi-court-to-continue-babri-masjid-case-proceedings-via-video-conferencing/story-GjgXa6fc23OwKNH8Jtq8KM.html
16-05-2020||Lucknow||Allahabad HC suggests ways to check spread of COVID-19||Expressing displeasure over the condition of hospitals in Prayagraj, the Allahabad high court on Friday made some suggestions to the state government to check the spread of COVID-19 in the state and to provide necessary facilities to migrants entering into the state.The bench suggested that the state government must ensure that every migrant in the state is properly quarantined for at least 15 days and in the quarantine premises proper sanitization should be there along with food and medical facilities.On May 7, the high court had taken cognizance of a letter written by Gaurav Kumar Gaur an advocate, addressed to Chief Justice, raising the issue of death of Virendra Singh of Prayagraj who was corona positive and allegedly died due to laxity in treatment. The letter was treated as Public Interest Litigation (PIL) and the court had asked the state government to brief it about the condition of hospitals in the city.During the course of hearing, the bench comprising chief justice Govind Mathur and justice Siddhartha Varma asked the state government to rev up functioning of government hospitals and primary health centres in the city which are about 105 in number as such that they must be ready to treat from ‘minor flu and cold to heart attacks’.“This would minimize the requirement of private hospitals and would also ensure that public at large would get good treatment and at reasonable rates,” observed the bench. The bench questioned the conditions of quarantine centres and said, “What is the reason that despite various orders and directions of the state government to keep the Covid-19 virus hospitals clean and sanitized, they are neither cleaned nor sanitized.”The court has also suggested that list of migrant workers who are entering in state after lockdown must be maintained. Further, responsibility of government officers must be fixed to keep track of their health, availability of foods and other basic necessities to such migrants.The court further suggested that the state government must publicize contact numbers on which any resident of the state may inform, if he sees any person unknown to him/her is residing in their neighbourhood but not being tracked by the government.The court has fixed May 18 as next date of hearing and asked the state government counsel to apprise it with steps taken with regards to suggestions made.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/allahabad-hc-suggests-ways-to-check-spread-of-covid-19/story-RH2M8eE8oBvaWAauI2EeCK.html
16-05-2020||Kolkata||10 more die of Covid-19 in West Bengal; 84 fresh cases reported||West Bengal registered 10 more Covid-19 fatalities in the last 24 hours, raising the death toll in the state to 153, a health bulletin said on Friday.Of them five were from the city, three from North 24 Parganas district and two from Howrah, it said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe deaths were directly due to the novel coronavirus, the bulletin issued by the West Bengal health department said. A total of 153 people have died directly due to Covid-19 in the state so far and 72 others succumbed because of other comorbidity conditions where the presence of coronavirus was incidental. It said at least 84 new cases of Covid-19 infection were reported in the last 24 hours taking the total number of active cases in the state to 1,407.In Kolkata there were 43 new cases reported during the last 24 hours while 27 were from Howrah, four each from North 24 Parganas and South 24 Parganas districts, the bulletin said.Two new cases each from Purba Medinipore and Purba Burdwan districts were also reported, and one each from Hooghly and Uttar Dinajpur, it said.The total number of Covid-19 cases in the state is 2,461.During the last 24 hours 61 people were discharged taking the total number of people recovered to 829, the bulletin said.The number of samples tested on Friday was 6,706 and a total of 69,543 samples have been examined so far, it mentioned.Meanwhile, the district administration in Malda started swab tests of those who returned from Ajmer and Odisha and set up a quarantine centre there.At least eight health workers at the BMRC Hospital in Barracpore tested positive for the Covid-19 following which the hospital authorities stopped admission of new patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/10-more-die-of-covid-19-in-west-bengal-84-fresh-cases-reported/story-uddo0ey40uOuxG90PovdZO.html
16-05-2020||Lucknow||Vegetable vendors don role of corona warriors in Prayagraj||Vegetable vendors have joined the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic in Prayagraj by spreading awareness on social distancing among people.In a novel experiment, Khuldabad police of old city area of Prayagraj are encouraging vegetable vendors to spread awareness among people to maintain social distancing and follow other guidelines issued by the government to keep coronavirus at bay. Police have fixed placards and small cartons on the vegetable carts containing a list of safety measures. The vendors while selling vegetables in different localities request buyers to read the guidelines and follow them for their protection against coronavirus.“Khuldabad area has a large vegetable ‘mandi’ where vendors come to buy vegetables in bulk for selling them in different localities which include densely populated areas where people were not taking the pandemic seriously”, said SHO Khuldabad inspector Vinit Singh.Moreover, many in these areas were not aware of the guidelines and were reluctant to follow lockdown, social distancing, regular hand washing and other precautions, Singh informed.In a bid to spread awareness among people and also among themselves, a list of vendors was prepared and they were given instructions in separate batches on how to remain safe from coronavirus infection and protect themselves while they were on work. Cartons with pamphlets of guidelines were fixed on the carts of vegetable vendors which they will carry with them and request people to read it in different localities they visit.“As vegetable vendors roam around in different localities where they come in contact with large number of people every day, they were exposed to threat of Covid-19. If anyone of them becomes infected, they may pose a risk to not only their kin but also to many others as well,” Singh shared.In a bid to control the spread of coronavirus, vendors were given proper instructions and tips to remain safe during work and maintain proper distance with people, he added.Besides vegetable kiosks, guideline posters have been put up in all localities of old city area to raise awareness among the people. Enforcement of lockdown reduces risk of coronavirus spread but finally it is the awareness which will defeat the pandemic completely, circle officer Amit Kumar Srivastava said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/vegetable-vendors-don-role-of-corona-warriors-in-prayagraj/story-53ckQJY9f7RpvFz1QQTESN.html
16-05-2020||Lucknow||South Indian group stuck in Ayodhya leaves for home town||When former Sanskrit lecturer N Narasimhappa left Bengaluru with 13 other family member and friends for a pilgrimage to Ayodhya, he had no inkling they would all be stuck in a temple for 55 daysAfter a long wait for around two months, Narasimhappa, around 67, and others were able to leave for Bengaluru on Friday .At around 7.30 am, they left Hanumant Sia Raghunath Sadan ashram in Ayodhya to board the Sangam Mitra train at Jhansi railway station. This ashram was their home for the past 55 days.Mahant Ram Sundar Saran, head of the ashram and others bid them farewell.“They became our responsibility. It was our duty to look after them. It was an emotional moment for all of us when they left. For the past two months we looked after them like our own family. All efforts were made to make their stay in the ashram comfortable,” said the Mahant. This was Narasimhappa’s third trip to Ayodhya. On the first two occasions he came alone. But on this third pilgrimage there were 13 others with him. They reached Ayodhya on March 21 with a return ticket for March 25. But the Covid-19 pandemic and the ensuing lockdown from March 25 left them stranded in Ayodhya.“The day lockdown was announced (March 24), we decided to leave the hotel and take refuge in the ashram (Hanumant Sia Raghunath Sadan). There was no option. It was a 21-day lockdown,” said Narasimhappa.“We were worried how we would sustain for 21 days in Ayodhya with a limited budget. What would happen next, how would we reach Bengaluru and what if we run out of money?,” said Narasimhappa. And then, Ram Sundar Saran, his deputy Nityanand Saran and other members of the ashram took it upon themselves to take care of this 14 –member group, including four men, nine women and an eight-year-old child.“We hoped that after April 17 we would be able to leave for Bengaluru. But as the lockdown was extended on three successive occasions, depression gripped all of us,” said Narasimhappa.With bare knowledge of Hindi language, interacting with the ashram staff and other locals was also a problem for this group.But as the locals came to know about these south Indians stranded in the ashram, aid started arriving for them. The district administration of Ayodhya also extended all support to them.Mamta Shastri of Darshan Bhavan ashram also helped the group.Janardan Tewari, another local of Ayodhya was instrumental in getting train tickets booked for them and arranging their road-journey to Jhansi.Things became easy for these pilgrims after they met Kamla Kant Sundaram, a south Indian living in Ayodhya Sundarm’s family has been living in Ayodhya for the past three generations.“The ashram also made available to us its kitchen to prepare south Indian food. The ashram and locals provided essential food grain,” said Paravathamma, a woman member of the group. Overwhelmed by the hospitality, Narasimhappa and the others promised to return after the pandemic subsided.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/south-indian-group-stuck-in-ayodhya-leaves-for-home-town/story-7S9y0CxiQrgiXtkrPTT3mL.html
16-05-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan-based company develops robots to screen people amid Covid-19||A Jaipur-based company has developed robots to help health workers in conducting a thermal screening of the people amid Covid-19 crisis. These robots can also identify if a person is wearing a mask or not.The robot which is 95 per cent made in India is the first in the world to be based on spine technology.Click here for full coronavirus coverage“Our product is 95 per cent made in India. It is the world’s first robot that is based on spine technology which helps robot balance anything it handles. The robot doesn’t follow any line or magnetic path, it self-navigates,” Bhuvanesh Mishra, Managing Director of Club First, Rajasthan told ANI.“The robot can do thermal screening, it can also identify if a person is wearing a mask or not,” Mishra added.According to the Union Health Ministry, the state has reported 4,534 Covid-19 cases with 125 deaths while the country has reported 81,970 cases with 2,649 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-based-company-develops-robots-to-screen-people-amid-covid-19/story-2foaKOsQ2EXnakd3XqRAsL.html
16-05-2020||Lucknow||Such accidents are not deaths, but murders: Akhilesh Yadav on Auraiya truck accident||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday termed the death of 24 migrant labourers in Auraiya as “indescribable” sadness, saying such accidents are “not deaths, but murders”.At least 24 migrant labourers lost their lives and 36 people sustained injuries when a trailer truck carrying them collided with another truck in the early hours of Saturday in Auraiya, police said. Both the trucks were carrying the labourers. The incident took place between 3 am and 3.30 am, they said. Also read: 24 migrants killed in road accident in Uttar Pradesh’s Auraiya “Indescribable sadness on the death of over 24 poor migrant labourers in UP’s Auraiya. Prayers for the injured persons. Let’s see till when the silence maintained by heartless people and their supporters justify this negligence... despite knowing everything, and seeing everything. Such accidents are not deaths, but murder,” Yadav said in a tweet in Hindi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/such-accidents-are-not-deaths-but-murders-akhilesh-yadav-on-auraiya-truck-accident/story-uPk1VZeul8rFKCIswi95cO.html
16-05-2020||Chandigarh||Oyster mushrooms to give a fillip to Lahaul-Spiti economy||Cultivation of pearl oyster mushrooms, also known as Dhingri mushrooms (Pleurotus ostreatus), is likely to boost the economy of the tribal district of Lahaul And Spiti. The region is famous for pea cultivation and now the farmers have started growing the spatula-shaped mushrooms to supplement their income, says Kalzag Ladde of Chichim village in Spiti. The mushrooms were first cultivated in 2015 and now the activity is being supported by the horticulture department. 50 FARMERS TRAINED SO FAR Specialists are apprising farmers of the technique to grow mushrooms. Ladde produces approximately 150 kg oyster mushroom and supplies them to local hoteliers and Home Stays in Kaza for Rs 250- Rs 300 per kg.So far, 50 farmers have been trained in mushroom cultivation. They have also been provided with bags of mushroom spawn, which are to be incubated at room temperature.The mushrooms can be used in pickles, powder and medicines. Their cultivation has also provided women with a direct source of employment.HIGHLY NUTRITIOUSThe oyster mushroom is ideal for producing protein-rich food from agro-waste without composting. The mushrooms are rich in Vitamins C and B complex, and their protein content varies between 1.6% and 2.5%. It has most mineral salts required by humans such as potassium, sodium, phosphorus, iron and calcium.It also has antibiotic properties and reduces the bad cholesterol. They can be safely consumed by diabetics too. GROWN IN SUB-TROPICAL MOUNTANIOUS REGIONS The oyster mushroom is grown in subtropical mountain regions with temperatures ranging from 10°C to 24°C and relative humidity between 55-75% for a period of six to eight months.Clean paddy straw is soaked in water for 18 hours and mixed with a bottle of master spawn and horsegram powder. The mixture is filled into polyethylene bags and kept at room temperature. The compact mass is watered regularly until the mushrooms start growing.Spiti, the abode of Buddhist monks, and a popular tourists destination, is known all over the globe for its age-old Buddhists monasteries, scenic splendour and snow covered peaks, and it is now ready to make its mark in production and export of oyster mushrooms to other parts of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/oyster-mushrooms-to-give-a-fillip-to-lahaul-spiti-economy/story-9jDC9ymc06CDgWSTCnc2vI.html
16-05-2020||Lucknow||Lockdown in place, many take online route to protest||With the lockdown in place and social distancing becoming a norm, the protestors have decided to take an online route to stage protests for a cause in this season of Covid-19 pandemic.Take for example the Samajwadi Party. It’s legislature and the leader of opposition in UP Assembly, Ram Govind Chaudhary has given a ‘Mazdoor Bachao, Desh Bachao (save labourers, save country) call for May 17 where he has asked people to pray at home and agitate online on the issues related to the migrant labourers. He said the knee jerk and unplanned lockdown has sent migrant labourers into sudden crisis of life, homes, and livelihood.“They are stranded and have been looking to return home and many of them are even dying in their attempts. So, all the people, to whatever religion they belong to, should pray at homes. And show solidarity towards them on social media,” said Chaudhary.UP Karamchari-Shikshak Samiti too is taking an online route to stage protest against the withdrawal/suspension of allowances of state government employees.“We held an online meeting under the leadership of a member of legislative council (MLC) Om Prakash Sharma. The leaders of various forums and associations related to employees participated in the online meeting and protested over the freezing of dearness allowances, other allowances, and suspension of various sections of labour laws in the state,” said BL Kushwaha, the spokesperson of the Samiti.“The governments always have many options to raise financial resources which can be deployed if it had the political will. The online meeting decided that if the government does not takes back its anti-employee decisions, then a face-off between the working class and the government is inevitable once the lockdown gets over,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/lockdown-in-place-many-take-online-route-to-protest/story-fuaob3WxBGFkuTpjc1UdnL.html
16-05-2020||Lucknow||24 migrants killed in road accident in Uttar Pradesh’s Auraiya, CM Adityanath orders probe||At least 24 migrant labourers were killed and 36 others injured when a speeding mini-truck climbed over a stationary truck trolley in Uttar Pradesh’s Auraiya district early on Saturday, police officials said, in the latest accident involving stranded workers.The mini-truck was carrying 18 migrants and the truck trolley had around 42 others when the accident happened.Police officials said 20 of the injured migrant workers have been rushed to PGI Saifai in critical condition while 16 others are undergoing treatment at the district hospital in Auraiya. As chief minister Yogi Adityanath condoled the deaths of the migrant workers, he directed officials to provide the best possible medical facility to the injured and ordered a detailed enquiry into the accident.“The death of migrant workers/workers in a road accident in Auraiya district is unfortunate and sad. My condolences to the bereaved families of the dead,” Adityanath tweeted. जनपद औरैया में सड़क दुर्घटना में प्रवासी कामगारों/श्रमिकों की मृत्यु दुर्भाग्यपूर्ण एवं दुःखद है, मेरी संवेदनाएं मृतकों के शोक संतप्त परिजनों के साथ हैं। पीड़ितों को हर संभव राहत प्रदान करने,घायलों का समुचित उपचार कराने व दुर्घटना की त्वरित जांच करवाने के निर्देश भी दिए गए हैं।“Instructions have also been given to provide all possible relief to the victims, to provide proper treatment to the injured and to promptly investigate the accident,” he added.Jai Narain Singh, additional director general (ADG) of police (Kanpur Zone), confirmed that the accident took place when the truck trolley stopped at a roadside eatery around 3.15am.Singh said the truck trolley was carrying migrant labourers from Jaipur and Bharatpur districts of Rajasthan and most of them from UP’s Kushinagar, Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal.The senior police official said the mini-truck was ferrying the labourers from Delhi and was heading towards Sagar in Madhya Pradesh while crossing over borders through Auraiya district. He said the mini truck’s driver apparently fell asleep and failed to spot the truck trolley. “The truck collided with the trolley from behind and climbed over it as the speed was high. All the 42 labourers sitting on the trolley were injured and 24 of them died before reaching the hospital,” Singh said while speaking over the phone. He said he along with other officials have reached Auraiya and arranging all possible relief for the injured people. Bodies of the labourers have been sent for post-mortem examination and efforts are on to contact their family members.Tens of thousands of people have been walking home from big cities after being laid off because of the lockdown to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) since late March.Millions of workers were left without work across cities and towns in India when the lockdown was announced on March 24, resulting in the first wave of workers going back to their villages. Every phase of the extension has seen a new wave—the lockdown was extended twice, from April 14 to May 3 and then May 3 to May 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/24-migrants-killed-in-road-accident-in-uttar-pradesh-s-auraiya-cm-adityanath-orders-probe/story-s8xCkS8smfVHdzgYw6Ng5L.html
16-05-2020||Lucknow||‘Took loan and went to earn, had to take loan to return’||Ranjit Kumar, 26, of Lakhimpur Kheri’s Chakdaha village had borrowed Rs 20,000 to go to Mumbai in November 2018. He had hoped to find employment there.Now, after the lockdown consumed jobs and Mumbai reported high number of coronavirus positive patients, Kumar like many other migrant labourers, was forced to return home. “I had taken a loan to go to Mumbai. All that I had earned has been exhausted and now I am in debt,” said Kumar, with a sloppy mask on his face and tears in his eyes.Several migrant workers now returning to their villages had similar stories to tell. Many of them were seen walking briskly to their villages. “We learnt there are orders not to allow us on roads and railway tracks and if found walking we could be quarantined away from our villages,” said one of them.Several migrant workers, mostly from Mumbai, were seen walking on Lucknow’s Shaheed Path on way to their villages. The vehicles they took to reach Lucknow left them on the highway during the night from where most of them had to walk their way home. Most of them had exhausted whatever little money was left with them to have food. They said they were jobless for last 50 days. “When our savings were almost exhausted, people said that we should return to our villages. Some left on foot though we managed to hire a truck,” said Dilip Kumar, of Mangrola in Pratapgarh, who had gone to Mumbai to earn livelihood in November, 2018.Migrant workers said they spent anywhere between Rs 2000 and Rs 3000 to get a cycle to ride their way back. A truck ride cost some of them between Rs 3500 to Rs 4000. “Trucker asked for Rs 4000 but we bargained for Rs. 3500. We were dropped outside Lucknow. There was hardly any space inside the truck which had about 40-45 people,” said Pradeep Raj of Sultanpur, who worked in a construction firm in Mumbai’s Parel area for 15 years. Between 11 pm and 1 am, nearly 200 migrant labourers arrived by trucks bearing Maharashtra registration numbers. They were from different parts of UP. Some of them headed to Prayagraj, others left for Pratapgarh, Lakhimpur Kheri, Sultanpur, Gorakhpur, Barabanki and Sitapur.“We are not touching anyone, we are also wearing masks. We have reached here from Mumbai and all our savings are exhausted,” said Rajender Singh who was headed to Garwarabazar in Pratapgarh.A woman was seen riding pillion on a motorcycle, holding her baby tightly to herself. She had been travelling for nearly 6 days on way to Gorakhpur. The motorcycle was driven by her husband Dilip Singh. “There was no one to guide us so we chose to go home by road,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/took-loan-and-went-to-earn-had-to-take-loan-to-return/story-RLIy9dRF2b8C3biNGaJsHI.html
16-05-2020||Lucknow||UP: Two hog deer rescued and released||In back to back rescue operations, two endangered Indian hog deer were rescued from Nandgaon and Tumaula village in Chhata block of Mathura district. After urgent medical treatment, both animals were safely released back to their natural habitat. The wildlife SOS responded to a call from the Kosi Kalan range forest office in Mathura district regarding an endangered hog deer that had been injured by a pack of feral dogs. A team from the NGO rushed to the range forest office to rescue the animal. It was later transferred to the wildlife SOS hospital for further treatment.In another incident, another injured hog deer was found in Tumaula village, Mathura. Wildlife SOS assisted the forest department in the rescue and release operation after these deer were left injured by feral dogs. Dr Ilayaraja, deputy director, veterinary services, wildlife SOS said, “Both animals were identified as adult females, who had sustained superficial injuries on their hind limbs and back region. After necessary treatment, they were released back into the wild.”The Indian hog deer (Axis porcinus) is listed as an ‘endangered’ species in the IUCN red list. They are found in South Asia and Southeast Asia, and their habitat varies from wet and tall grasslands to swamp riverine areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-two-hog-deer-rescued-and-released/story-xF7VhMkIUrD8xfkQ94TyYO.html
16-05-2020||Lucknow||Govt starts random Covid-19 testing in UP jails||UP state authorities have started random swab sampling of prisoners and jail staff to check spread of Sars-Cov-2 infection in UP prisons after 10 inmates of Agra central prison tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday, said senior prison officials. Giving this information, director general, UP prison administration and reform services, Anand Kumar said the exercise was started on Thursday. He said the random sampling will be done in all 71 prisons in the state and also in 48 temporary jails set up during the lockdown period. Sharing further details, another prison official said samples of 83 inmates and 27 jail personnel of seven prisons were collected on the first day of the drive. He said the samples of 25 inmates of temporary jails of Sultanpur and Meerut were also collected on Thursday.The prison official said samples of over 100 inmates and 30 jail staff were collected from over a dozen jails on Friday. He said the process of random sampling will be expedited in prisons across the state from the next week.Earlier, samples of around 100 jail inmates and 14 staff of Agra central prison were collected for testing on Wednesday, said jail officials. Also, all of them have been kept in isolation and their report is awaited.Around 17 inmates from Agra central prison and Moradabad district jail have tested corona positive. Besides, five inmates of temporary jails, including three from Kanpur temporary jail and one each from Saharanpur and Sultanpur jails, tested positive earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/govt-starts-random-covid-19-testing-in-up-jails/story-nuYP14HHMbZFcQS5kKbNGM.html
16-05-2020||Bhopal||MP government declares nine districts Covid-19 free||The Madhya Pradesh government has declared that nine districts in the state, which had earlier reported Covid-19 cases, were now coronavirus-free. Additional chief secretary (Health) Mohammed Suleman said that the nine districts- Barwani, Agar-Malwa, Shajapur, Sheopur, Alirajpur, Harda, Shahdol, Tikamgarh and Betul- were now free from the infection.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIt was declared during a review meeting held on Friday.Apart from this, no Covid-19 case has been detected in eight districts of the state so far, Suleman said.Testing has been increased in the state, he said, adding that at least 5,822 swab samples were collected on Friday alone, while 93,849 samples have been tested so far.Of the 4,595 coronavirus positive cases reported in the state till Friday, 45 per cent were active ones, he added.According to the health department’s latest data, Covid-19 cases were reported in 32 districts till May 1 and as of May 15, its footprints extended to 44 out of 52 districts in the state.In some districts, fresh cases were reported following the arrival of migrant workers, an official said.Damoh district recorded its first case on Friday, when a migrant worker, who arrived from Mumbai, tested positive for the infection, he said.Till Friday evening, 239 patients have succumbed to the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/mp-government-declares-nine-districts-covid-19-free/story-aFSicTO02zc22B1v3vtVKJ.html
16-05-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand records 4 more Covid-19 cases; total rises to 215||Four more people have been tested positive for Covid-19 in Jharkhand, taking the total tally of the cases to 215, informed Health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni on Saturday.Click here for full coronavirus coverageOf the new coronavirus cases found, three are from Hazaribagh and one is from East Singhbhum.“Three more from Hazaribagh and one from East Singhbhum tested positive last night. Total 215 in Jharkhand,” Kulkarni informed media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-records-4-more-covid-19-cases-total-rises-to-215/story-4Otr7igW4bJcJZPXFDSerM.html
16-05-2020||Chandigarh||NIA files chargesheet against 6 in killing of J&K BJP leader, brother||The National Investigation Agency on Friday filed a chargesheet against six people, including three slain Hizbul Mujahideen (HM) terrorists and three arrested overground workers of the terror group for providing support to Pakistan-based terrorists to kill BJP leader Anil Parihar and his brother Ajeet Parihar in Jammu’s Kishtwar.The chargesheet has been filed in the special NIA Court, Jammu against the six accused under Sections 302, 120B, 109 and 34 of the Ranbir Penal Code, Sections 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 38, 39 and 40 of the UA(P) Act and Section 25(1A) and 25 of the Arms Act.The Parihar brothers were shot at point-blank range outside their house on November 1, 2018, when they were returning home after closing their shop.Initially, a case was registered by the Jammu Police at Kishtwar. The case was subsequently taken over by NIA.During the investigation, accused Nisar Ahmed Sheikh, Nishad Ahmed Butt and Azad Hussain Bagwan, all residents of Kishtwar were arrested in November 2019.These three accused had provided logistic support to the three terrorists—Osama-bin-Javid, Haroon Abbas Wani and Zahid Hussain, who had killed the Parihar brothers.The investigation unearthed the larger conspiracy of these terrorists and the overground workers of Hizb who were attempting to revive terrorism in the Doda region.These terrorists not only carried out the murder of Parihar brothers but also carried out three other terrorist acts in Kishtwar in 2019.In furtherance of the said conspiracy led by Jahangir Saroori, commander of the terror outfit in Kishtwar district, the accused persons devised ways and means to raise funds to sustain the activities of the banned terrorist organisation.It may be stated here that Osama-bin-Javid, Haroon Abbas Wani and Zahid Hussain were killed during different encounters that took place between the Hizbul Mujahideen cadres and security forces in Ramban and Doda districts in September 2019 and January this year.Further investigation continues against absconding accused Jahangir Saroori and others involved in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/nia-files-chargesheet-against-6-in-killing-of-j-k-bjp-leader-brother/story-F7B1x8Ag9f8E8j6O3SlbbJ.html
16-05-2020||Jaipur||Walking back home from Rajasthan, migrant workers find shelter in schools||Sitting under a tamarind tree in Government Girls Secondary School in Kanota on the outskirts of Jaipur, Mohd Azad Tyagi and his family are clueless about their journey ahead. Five of them began walking from their rented house in Jaipur’s Jalupura area on Friday morning for their native village in Uttar Pradesh’s Muzaffarnagar district. There’s a three-month-old infant also with the family. Around noon, when they reached Kanota, police directed them to the shelter house in a government school.“I have been jobless for four months,” said 37-year-old Tyagi. “My wife was in hospital for delivery in March. Our new born daughter has congenital defect in heart. I have been busy taking her to hospital for treatment. After the lockdown, the shop where I worked to repair mobile phones has been shut. I burrowed Rs 3,000 to pay the rent. We thought there was no point staying in Jaipur anymore,” he added.There was another reason for Tyagi and his family to return to their village. The Jalupura neighbourhood in Rajasthan’s capital city where they were living is a densely-populated area. “I feared for my new born daughter. If we had continued living there, she may have gotten infected,” he said.Tyagi’s family is one of the 218 families camping at the school in Kanota. All across India, thousands of migrant workers along with their families have been walking home from cities and urban centres during the lockdown to curb the spread of Covid-19.On Thursday, the Rajasthan government instructed all district collectors to set up camps with essential facilities such as food, water and toilet for people walking on highways. “If workers are found walking on roads, they should be sent to the nearest camps through buses,” said Subodh Agarwal, who heads the state level committee for interstate migration, in the government order. The order said collectors should organise roadways buses to take these people to the state’s border. On Friday morning, many people were still seen walking on the Jaipur-Agra national highway. But they were stopped at a police check post at Kanota and directed to two camps set up in government schools.Ajaz Ahmad of Bahraich district in Uttar Pradesh is also among the migrant workers taking shelter in one of the schools. He worked as a welder at a government bridge near Jaipur’s Sikar Road intersection. Though he registered himself on the e-mitra portal - the government facility for permission for interstate travels - on May 2, but didn’t get any reply. “We began walking at 4am this morning. First we went to the Sindhi Camp bus stand hoping to catch a bus but were turned away. We were walking when police told us to come to this camp,” he said.By 2pm, Jaipur district administration had marshalled five roadways buses to ferry 195 people to two camps in Rajasthan’s border town of Bharatpur, said Jaipur divisional commissioner KC Verma in a government release.But the bus journey is momentary relief – many of them were stopped at the border in Bharatpur.“Bharatpur district administration has told us that their camps are full. They can’t take more people. Until this is resolved, we have stopped the buses at Dausa-Bharatpur border,” said Bassi tehsildar Premraj Meena, who is coordinating travels from Kanota. “Around 50 families have assembled at the camp again. We will send them as and when the buses are available to us. In the meantime, we have made all arrangements for them,” Meena said. Tyagi’s family got into a bus and reached Dausa-Bharatpur border but is now stuck there. “They should provide bus to our home towns. This is hardly any help – picking us from one point and abandoning at the other,” he said on telephone.Meanwhile, 74 families of Uttarakhand boarded a special train to Haridwar from Jaipur railway station on Friday evening. “We screened them at the check post in front of Kanota police station before sending them to the railway station,” the tehsildar said.The divisional commissioner said the train to Haridwar carried 1,300 passengers. Another train left Jaipur for Saharanpur at 9pm, he said in the release.According to the government, more than nine million people have registered themselves for permission to leave Rajasthan. Registration is also required to travel in buses arranged by government and in special trains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/walking-back-home-from-rajasthan-migrant-workers-find-shelter-in-schools/story-DUEIpORrVuHqyihvSCbv9N.html
16-05-2020||City||RPF marks inquiry after complaint against its inspector on Twitter||The Northern Railway Protection Force (RPF) has asked the divisional officer to conduct an inquiry after an anonymous complaint was received on Twitter alleging negligence on the part of RPF inspector that led to the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) among the personnel.In a tweet to the Northern Railway Protection Force’s handle, the complainant stated that inspector did not allow medical examination of the personnel, and even mentioned the names of some constables who had approached him seeking to be examined.The developement comes after as many as 34 RPF men, who were sent from Delhi for crowd control during migrant exodus, tested positive for the virus.The RPF inspector, Anil Kumar, meanwhile denied the allegations and said that someone was trying to mislead the authorities.Assistant security commissioner, Ferozepur Division, Arun Kumar said the facts in the letter were wrong. “And if anyone in the staff is facing any problem and want to get the medical examination conducted, they can directly contact us,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rpf-marks-inquiry-after-complaint-against-its-inspector-on-twitter/story-mTI552kDrSK6EOokBcWecM.html
16-05-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana miffed over migrants’ entry into state from Punjab||Ajay, 22, worked in a stitching factory in Ludhiana and is now cycling to his native place in Uttar Pradesh’s Gonda, 980km away. Accompanied by an 18-year-old co-villager, Ajay had to cross Ghaggar river in a bid to avoid police while crossing the Haryana-Punjab border.“My wife was expecting to deliver a baby in the first week of May at my native place and I decided to reach there. I approached a local policeman for help and he asked us to bring luggage. At a stadium in Ludhiana, we waited for hours, only to be lathi-charged later,” he said. “Then I started cycling and we weren’t stopped anywhere till the Shambhu border on Ambala side. Punjab Police used to show us inner countryside routes. Locals told us to swim across the river to enter Ambala. In two rounds, I carried my luggage and cycle on my head, one by one in water level under my chest and crossed it,” he said. Ambala is the gateway to enter Haryana from the north where hundreds of migrants are leaving daily. Last week, the influx of the migrants grew to such an extent that Ambala City MLA Aseem Goyal, along with senior police officials, had to reach the border to discuss the issue with Punjab Police and facilitate their return.A police officer had then on record said that some of the migrants have been sent back via the field route they had entered Haryana from.Nine busses carrying nearly 230 migrants from various districts in Punjab were sent to Saharanpur from Saini Dharamshala on Thursday morning. SP Abhishek Jorwal said, “Punjab must have to stop them and send them home from their working place. Due to this, our shelter homes are getting full but we are sending buses regularly for UP and have sent three trains in a week for Bihar. We must ask how many buses were deployed from Patiala or Ludhiana to ferry them.”National Highway-44 in Ambala is full of migrants walking, cycling, resting, many in queues for food opposite the cantonment railway station. Haryana home minister Anil Vij said, “Punjab government is behaving irresponsibly. They should stop pushing migrants working in their state into Haryana. Many who have already entered are being kept at shelter homes and are consecutively sent to their native places by buses or trains.”“Haryana DGP has told his Punjab counterpart many times to stop this. During the curfew, if they are walking towards Haryana, this is not possible without the help of the local police,” Vij, who is also an MLA from Ambala Cantonment, said.Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta was not available for a comment. However, an official spokesperson of the police department said the state force has not received any complaint from Haryana about migrants from Punjab illegally entering Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-miffed-over-migrants-entry-into-state-from-punjab/story-H0BWH3tOC8v0SfXf3nWruI.html
16-05-2020||City||Cancer patient, govt doctor’s father found positive in Panchkula||The number of Covid-19 cases in Panchkula increased to 25 after two more persons were found positive on Friday. One of them is a 59-year-old male resident of Sector 21. He is the father of a medicine specialist working at the Panchkula civil hospital in Sector 6. The other patient is a 60-year-old woman from Sector 10. Panchkula civil surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur said the surveillance teams on the ground had isolated the immediate family members of both patients. The affected area in both these sectors had been declared containment zone to stop the spread of the virus. Further contact tracing of these patients was underway, she added.SOURCE OF INFECTION UNKNOWNThe health authorities have not established the source of infection in both cases. The Sector 21 man and his wife had visited the Panchkula civil hospital for a regular check-up and had been sampled for Covid-19. While his wife’s report is negative, the man was found positive. Sources said the man’s son, was on Covid duty at the hospital, and had been isolated, along with his wife. The Sector 10 woman, a cancer patient, had to undergo chemotherapy at a private hospital. Her sample was collected before the therapy and she was found infected. Dr Kaur said the woman had visited a hospital in Mohali as well. “We are trying to find her entire contact history. Five of her family members have been isolated for sampling,” she said. Of the total 25 Covid patients in Panchkula, 19 have been discharged, leaving six active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cancer-patient-govt-doctor-s-father-found-positive-in-panchkula/story-55fcGkv1DNxZg8zd6BeMVM.html
16-05-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana Roadways receives lukewarm response on service resumption||Haryana Roadways received lukewarm public response on the resumption of bus services on Friday.The services were closed since chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had announced lockdown in view of the coronavirus pandemic on March 23.On Day 1, buses from eight depots operated to and fro on several routes with 196 passengers, earning a total revenue of ₹42,580 to the roadways. As per the data provided by the directorate of state transport, government of Haryana, seven buses that hit the roads were from Panchkula, the largest number among all the depots. Almost 35% of the passengers (68) that travelled from various districts in the public carrier were from Panchkula depot itself.Further, only one passenger travelled between Panchkula and Karnal in the morning, while a maximum of 20 passengers took the journey from Narnaul to Rewari late afternoon.29 ROUTES DESIGNATEDAs many as 29 routes were designated for the resumption of the bus service, but nine of them were suspended in absence of bookings.A Kaithal-bound passenger was stuck in Ambala due to the unannounced cancellation of the bus service. Sanjeev, an assistant professor, travelled from Nawanshahr (SBS Nagar) in Punjab to Ambala Cantonment (Haryana) to board a bus for his home, but was stranded due to the suspension of the service. “I travelled with a friend on a two-wheeler early morning with a curfew pass and the ticket that I had booked online. On reaching Ambala Cantonment bus stand, I came to know that I was the only passenger travelling to Kaithal and this was the reason they suspended the bus service. I didn’t receive any cancellation message and now, I’m stuck here,” he said. The guidelines issued on Thursday said that only passengers with online tickets would be allowed to board the buses and no window tickets would be sold.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-roadways-receives-lukewarm-response-on-service-resumption/story-hZ3NoTIMiM5NQ4kRed0QjO.html
16-05-2020||Chandigarh||4 out of 6 containment zones in Chandigarh account for just 4% of total cases||Four of the six containment zones sealed by the UT administration account for just 4.1% of the total Covid positive cases. The six areas include the Kacchi Colony in Dhanas, part of Sector 52, Shastri Nagar in Manimajra and parts of Sectors 38 and 30B, and the congested Bapu Dham Colony.Out of the total 191 positive cases, only eight were reported from four of these containment zones—Sector 52 reported three cases, and one case each was reported from Sector 38, Dhanas and Manimajra. On the other hand, the other two containment zones—Sector 30B and Bapu Dham Colony—account for 74.3% of the total cases recorded in the city.There is no active case in Sector 38, and only 11 persons in Sector 30 of the total 21 infected are still hospitalised at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research.THE BAPU DHAM MYSTERYAt Bapu Dham Colony, three persons have been discharged, with one dead and 122 infected. The source of the spread is still a mystery as reports have suggested only five to ten persons attended the ‘small gathering’ organised by Patient 1. Earlier the UT administration had claimed that more than 100 people had attended the gathering.Other reasons include common community taps, and sharing of hookahs, cigarettes and bidis, and community drinking and card playing sessions during lockdown.THE BALANCING ACTDr Sonu Goel, community health expert at PGIMER, said that it was a balancing act. “To keep certain areas shut and sealed and keep few zones open is an ideal situation which helps in containing the infection and also reopens the economy.”HOW AREAS WILL REOPENUT health secretary Arun Gupta said as per the central government guidelines, the restrictions in containment zones will be lifted only after 28 days when the last positive case of the zone gets discharged.When asked why areas with the remaining 20% cases had not been sealed, Gupta said areas like Sectors 15 and 40 were congested and thus more vulnerable, and all these factors were important in decision making about sealing an area.2 SCHOOLS IN BAPU DHAM TURN INTO QUARANTINE FACILITYIn order to break the chain of infection in Bapu Dham, the UT administration on Friday turned two school buildings here into a special quarantine facility. UT administrator VP Singh Badnore said during the Friday review meeting that those Colony residents whose houses were small and congested should be allowed to utilise this facility free of cost.While Badnore appreciated PGIMER for their field visit to the Colony, doctors privy to the matter said the overall analysis of their field visit would take some time. Badnore also asked the municipal corporation chief to ensure that essential items were available in all containment zones.Meanwhile, MC chief KK Yadav said the temporary shifting of the Sector 26 mandi to ISBT, Sector 17, had been completed. Necessary sanitisation and social distancing were being maintained in the area, he said.Arun Kumar Gupta, principal secretary (health), said a post-discharge centre had been set up at Sood Dharamshala for patients with mild symptoms. Adviser Manoj Parida said several reliefs were being granted by the Centre for the benefit of the poor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/4-out-of-6-containment-zones-account-for-just-4-of-total-cases-in-chandigarh/story-vG2fK3QZ5ZwRaBBbpYKxaN.html
16-05-2020||Chandigarh||Covid impact:Those who fed Chandigarh’s needy now struggle to earn two square meals||There was a time when this roadside ‘tandoor’ based out of Sector 37, Chandigarh, used to feed hundreds of people. Now, after over 50 days of lockdown, 60-year-old Ramlal and his 35-year-old son Vikas Kumar who run the eatery are themselves deprived of food.“Hum toh dusron ko khilate the, kabhi socha nahin tha ki khud do waqt ki roti khane ko nahin milegi (we used to feed others; never thought we would be deprived of two meals a day),” said Kumar with tears of helplessness. “All my savings are depleted. My son had just started school, my mother, brothers and wife are dependent on me.”“Lagta hai ki ye ek sapna hai, yakeen nahi hota ki pichle do mahine se hum berozgaar hain (all this seems like a nightmare, I can’t believe that I am unemployed for the last two months),” he sobbed.Hundreds of such street food vendors, tiffin walas, dhabas and tandoors are struggling to keep their kitchen fires running in the wake of huge losses amid the lockdown.‘MAY CHANGE PROFESSION’Ravinder Kumar, a 44-year-old man running a tiffin service in the city for over 12 years, is now thinking of selling vegetables and fruits. “With zero income for the last two months, I am rethinking whether to continue the tiffin services. Even if they let us open, most of my customers are students who are not coming back anytime soon,” he said.MIGRANTS WORKING AS HELPERS LEFT JOBLESS Many of the migrants, who were working in these city dhabas and restaurants, are now waiting to board the Shramik Special trains back home as they have no work or source of income.Ram Manohar, who worked as a cook at a dhaba in Sector 15, said, “Our malik (owner) used to give us Rs 200-300 to buy ration every week. Instead of cooking for the dhaba, we used to cook for ourselves. Somehow we have survived for 50 days, but now even our owner has stopped giving us allowances.”“Help us get a train back to Uttar Pradesh,” pleaded Manohar in desperation.NOT IN A POSITION TO REOPENEven if the lockdown was eased, 54-year-old Narinder Singh, running a tandoor near the Sector 19 gurdwara, said, “I am not in a position to reopen after incurring such huge losses. Our business has been closed since December because the UT administration refused to give us a permit. Later, in March, when we got the permission, the lockdown was announced. It has been over six months that we are struggling and we might not be able to reopen.”“My daughter was supposed to get married this year. My son was to complete his graduation. All our savings are depleted now,” he said.It’s a matter of survival for this tandoor in Sector 23-D running since 1959. Sardari Lal, an 80-year-old man who ran this roadside food facility for the poor, students and outsiders, said he had never seen such a situation where he had to close business for two months. “Ab hamara bhavishya ishwar ke upper hai (now, our future is in God’s hands),” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-impact-those-who-fed-the-city-beautiful-are-now-sleeping-on-empty-stomachs/story-VRixTrVzVO78WbTfAcvpUI.html
16-05-2020||City||Gurdas Badal cremated with state honours at native village||The last rites of Gurdas Singh Badal, father of Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal and brother of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) patriarch Parkash Singh Badal, were performed at his native village Badal in Muktsar district with state honours on Friday.A former MP, Gurdas Badal, 90, died at Fortis hospital in Mohali on Thursday night. He was suffering from age-related ailments.Besides Manpreet, Parkash Singh Badal, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal, Union food processing industries minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal were among those present at the cremation. Cabinet ministers Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Sham Sundar Arora, Vijay Inder Singla, Bharat Bhushan Ashu and Aruna Chaudhary were also present. Captain Sandeep Singh Sandhu, political secretary to chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, also attended the funeral ceremony. Congress MP Jasbir Singh Dimpa, party MLAs Rana Gurjit Singh, Angad Singh and Amrinder Singh Raja Warring were also present. SAD leaders Bikram Singh Majithia, Daljit Singh Cheema, Sikander Singh Maluka and Janmeja Singh Sekhon also attended the cremation.Besides, Bathinda deputy commissioner (DC) B Srinivasan, Muktsar (DC) MK Aravind Kumar and SSPs of Bathinda, Mansa and Muktsar were also present. Gurdas Badal was elected as Akali Dal MP from erstwhile Fazilka Lok Sabha segment in 1971. He was also elected as MLA from Lambi assembly segment in 1977 as SAD candidate.He unsuccessfully contested the 2012 assembly polls against Parkash Singh Badal as candidate of erstwhile People’s Party of Punjab (PPP), which was formed by Manpreet after he quit the SAD.Manpreet’s mother Harminder Kaur, 84, had died on March 19. The finance minister wrote on Facebook that his father’s health had started deteriorating after his mother’s death and he was on life support system for the past few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurdas-badal-cremated-with-state-honours-at-native-village/story-SD59Eb72vkWIun8ySiED7N.html
16-05-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body to provide PPEs to private clinics to screen citizens in containment zones for Covid-19||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Thursday decided to provide personal protective equipment (PPE) to private clinics located near or inside containment zones to screen citizens for Covid-19. The civic body said that the decision to provide PPEs was taken because private clinics within containment zones have been reluctant to open their doors for citizens owing to fear of transmission. “A week’s requirement of PPEs may be given as advance supply to such clinics [near or inside containment zones] also. Each ward officer shall collect 1,000 PPEs from Andheri Sports Complex immediately and distribute [among the clinics],” additional municipal commissioner P Velrasu stated in a circular.BMC claimed that roping in private clinics would help them screen maximum number of citizens and in the early detection of coronavirus cases. “BMC is intending to help the private clinics inside and near the containment zones with PPE kits to facilitate checking people who may display symptoms. These clinics shall help in early detection of coronavirus infected persons which would help in early isolation and extending necessary medical assistance,” the circular further read.The BMC has been running fever clinics in the containment zones to screen citizens, apart from checking patients in municipal dispensaries. Until May 12, BMC had screened more than 15,000 citizens in fever clinics and collected 4,500 swabs of suspected patients, of whom 392 were tested positive. BMC will also give PPEs to ambulance drivers who ferry Covid-19 patients. “Vehicles provided by transport commissioner and BEST [Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation] buses will be used [for frontline workers], and are being modified. However, all ward officers have been asked to give drivers and helpers of ambulances with a PPE kit, along with food and provisions for using washrooms in Covid-19 care centres.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-to-provide-ppes-to-private-clinics-to-screen-citizens-in-containment-zones-for-covid-19/story-ipArBjKletjAQe2XWKvTRP.html
16-05-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: 17-year-old blood cancer patient among two dead in Haryana||Haryana recorded two deaths due to coronavirus – one in Faridabad and another in Sonepat – since Thursday evening, which took the state’s toll to 13 on Friday.Senior doctors at Faridabad health department said that 17-year-old girl, who died on Friday, was suffering from blood cancer and also found infected with Covid-19. On Thursday evening, a 75-year-old asthmatic woman from Sonepat’s Tharu village who had died on the way to civil hospital was tested positive for the virus, said officials. It may be recalled that while there have been five Covid-related deaths in Faridabad, three in Panipat and two in Ambala, one each has been reported from Sonepat, Karnal and Rohtak.Meanwhile, though the state bulletin did not mention it, a truck driver and its cleaner who were on their way back from Kashmir were also found positive and have been put in isolation at Ambala after the Kashmir administration informed their Ambala counterparts.36 NEW CASES EMERGEHaryana saw 36 new cases on Friday, including 12 from Sonepat. Most of these cases were contacts of vegetable sellers. A staff nurse of BPS medical college at Khanpur Kalan and a local, who is working at a Delhi hospital, were among the new cases in Sonepat. Likewise, nine cases each were reported from Gurugram and Faridabad, two each from Kaithal and Panchkula and one each from Nuh and Rohtak.MAN, DAUGHTER FOUND INFECTED IN KAITHALA 30-year-old man and his two-year-old daughter have tested positive for coronavirus in Kaithal.IGP Hardeep Doon said the infected persons belonged to Dhand village and they had returned from Delhi on May 10. He said they had reported at the civil hospital in Kurukshetra and their test results came out positive on Friday. IGP Doon said they have been admitted to the Covid-19 hospital in Shahbad and their family members have been quarantined. 25 MORE DISCHARGED, RECOVERY RATE 54%On Friday, 25 more patients were discharged after their treatment, taking the state’s recovery rate further up to 54.33%. While 13 patients were cured in Faridabad, five each in Gurugram and Faridabad and one each in Ambala and Panchkula were discharged. Total 464 patients have so far been discharged in Haryana, which now has 377 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-17-year-old-blood-cancer-patient-among-two-dead-in-haryana/story-xdhVRHIJ0BHMhy5cDPolaO.html
16-05-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s Wankhede stadium to be converted into Covid facility||Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Friday notified the Mumbai Cricket Association (MCA) to hand over the Wankhede stadium premises to the civic body so that it can be converted into a temporary facility to house emergency BMC staff from the A ward as well as quarantine high-risk contacts of positive patients, if necessary.In response to Friday’s notice, MCA’s president Dr Vijay Patil said, “During these unprecedented times, Mumbai Cricket Association will extend all possible support to the government authorities fighting this pandemic.” As a policy, BMC is acquiring gymnasiums, clubs, marriage halls, dormitories at schools and colleges, hotels and lodges and grounds temporarily, to convert them to Covid Care Centers, as a contingency plan for a possible surge in Covid-19 cases.Sanjeev Jaiswal, additional municipal commissioner in BMC, in charge of managing hospitals, healthcare centres, and quarantine facilities in Mumbai said, “Like Wankhede stadium, we are also readying other gymkhanas such as the Police Gymkhana, Parsi Gymkhana, Islam Gymkhana, for Covid care centres (CCC). However, the grounds at these places are not apt for housing high-risk contacts of Covid-19 positive patients. CCC1, used for quarantining high-risk contacts have to be in standalone buildings. There have to be separate rooms or cubicles, and toilet facilities. In large centres like these gymkhanas, cubicles will have to be made.” Jaiswal said such large facilities can instead be care centres for positive asymptomatic and mild symptomatic.At Wankhede Stadium, spaces under the pavilion of the stadium, which is enclosed, ventilated, and has access to bathroom facilities will be converted to quarantine facilities.BMC is also scaling beds at existing CCC1 facilities to 1,00,000 by the end of May or by the first week of June, to support its contact tracing efforts. Jaiswal said, “One aspect of this is we are preparing for cases that will come up in June. What will be needed in June needs to be ready in May. Going by the present mathematical projection of rising in cases, BMC is scaling up beds at dedicated Covid hospitals, dedicated Covid health centres, and Covid care centres.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-wankhede-stadium-to-be-converted-into-covid-facility/story-IidKepvrNOIzeylzNP87XI.html
16-05-2020||City||Sex racket busted in Moga, two cops among five held for extortion||The district police have arrested five persons including two cops and two women on Friday for allegedly duping people by threatening to implicate them in fake molestation and rape cases at Nihal Singh Wala subdivision of Moga.The accused include two women, Harjinder Singh, ASI Chamkaur Singh, of Ladhaike village, and ASI Darshan Singh, of Moga. Both the cops were posted at Nihal Singh Wala police station.The women used to trap people through mobile conversations, invite them to their place, click photographs, and then blackmail people and extract money with the help of the accused cops.Nihal Singh Wala resident, Subash Chander, in a police complaint, said that Harjinder, and the two women knew him. “On May 7, they called him to Harjinder’s house and took him to a room. One of the women got undressed and ASI Chamkaur reached the spot. He threatened to register a case against me and a deal for Rs 1 lakh was struck. I arranged the money and gave it to him. But later, the women threatened me and asked me to pay the Rs 50,000 or face molestation charges,” he stated.DSP Manjit Singh said that during preliminary investigation, it was found Harjinder, and the two women, with the help of the accused cops, duped people and blackmailing them to implicate them in fake molestation cases. “After conducting raids all accused were arrested. We got four-day police remand of them and will investigate involvement of other people. We will also look into other victims,” he added.A case was registered under Sections 384, 385, 342 and 120-B of the IPC, Sections 3, 4, and 5 of the Immoral Traffic Act and under the Prevention of Corruption Act at Nihal Singh Wala police station.Sources revealed that after having a dispute with the cops over money, one of the accused women had complained some top police officials that both the accused ASIs were extorting money using her name.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sex-racket-busted-in-moga-two-cops-among-five-held-for-extortion/story-8m6Ep9dC0KEEzQS85BZjxH.html
16-05-2020||Chandigarh||19 migrants leave for home states after face-off with Malerkotla mill||The leaders of migrant labourers, who were protesting against a private spinning mill in Malerktola over their alleged exploitation for the past three days, left along with their family members for their home states on Friday.The workers of Arihant Spinning Mill were demanding a salary hike and transfer of some management functionaries. Over hundreds workers submitted their resignations on Thursday in protest against non-acceptance of their demands.“Resignations of seven workers have been accepted and the mill authorities arranged for their journey along with their 12 family members. They have been sent to their native states of Bihar, UP and Jharkhand after screening,” said Malerkotla SDM Vikramjeet Singh Panthey.“We have asked the mill management to start welfare activities for the workers who have been working with the company for years,” the SDM added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/19-migrants-leave-for-home-states-after-face-off-with-malerkotla-mill/story-smMzFDqabqbWq8n3s7xIJP.html
16-05-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai reports 933 Covid-19 cases in one day||The city on Friday recorded more than 900 Covid-19 cases for the second day in a row, with Mumbai’s total tally now reaching 17,671. Mumbai’s Covid-19 death toll has reached 655, while 4,568 patients have been treated and discharged from quarantine facilities.Of the 933 new cases reported on Friday, 231 were confirmed by private labs, where patients were tested on Tuesday and Wednesday. On Thursday, the city had recorded 998 cases – the highest number of new cases ever reported. As per data by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), around 31% (5,545) of the total cases in the city were reported in the past one week, with an average of 765 new cases reported each day. In the densely-populated Dharavi, 84 cases of Covid-19 were reported on Friday, taking the total count in India’s largest slums to 1,145. With four deaths reported on Friday, Dharavi’s Covid-19 death tally stands at 53. As per data from the G-North ward (Dharavi, Dadar, Mahim), there were 11 new cases in Dadar and 14 in Mahim on Friday. The ward has the highest number (1,471) of Covid-19 cases among all the 24 administrative wards in the city.On Friday, nine staffers of BMC’s disaster management control room were also tested positive for Covid-19, taking the total number of operators in the control room ailing from the virus to 14. “After five more staffers were tested positive, they were shifted to hotels for quarantine,” a senior civic official said.”Meanwhile, several Covid-19 patients were shifted to Covid Care Centres (CCC) that are set up across the city. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday inspected a CCC-2 centre (meant to quarantine mild symptomatic or asymptomatic patients) at the NESCO exhibition centre in Goregaon. NESCO Centre will house 1,240 beds, some of which will have oxygen facilities as well. BMC is preparing separate arrangements for women and men, with running hot water systems and fans for each bed.With a spike in the number of cases in the city and amid concerns of timely transfer of patients to quarantine centres and hospitals, BMC converted 70 Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) buses and 15 Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) buses into mini-ambulances to ferry suspected and asymptomatic patients or those with mild symptoms from their homes to CCCs. Citizens can call on BMC’s disaster helpline 1916 to access the ambulance services, virtual doctor advice and beds availability information.Meanwhile, the civic body conducted a joint meeting with the suburban divisions of the western and central railways through video conferencing on Friday for completing pre-monsoon works such as desilting railway culverts, providing dewatering pumps, measures for mitigating flooding at railway yards. BMC also asked railways to expedite permissions on areas under the latter’s jurisdiction for works related to Hancock, Nahur, Vidyavihar and Vikhroli rail overbridges (RoB). Railways has to install dewatering pumps by May 25.,||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-reports-933-covid-19-cases-reported-in-one-day/story-IMIzDgxFZO9zdRn73LbbYN.html
16-05-2020||Today's||Covid-19 and a realisation: The migrant worker is indispensable||The Covid-19 pandemic, besides taking a toll on human life, has brought to focus the underbelly of society. The well-off segment of Chandigarh (the smug bourgeoisie), have always blamed politicians for peopling the city with ‘bhaiyas’ (pejoratively used for migrant labour) only for building their vote-banks. I have often been confronted by friends with the question, “When, for God’s sake, will you ever come out of the colonies?”When I came to Chandigarh as a college student in 1965, I saw labourers staying in temporary shacks near construction sites even in a sector like 17. Their makeshift shanties lacked amenities and their children played on the sand and gravel dumps as the parents slogged for paltry wages.Concomitant with the growth of the city, grew the need for more workers. Households and commercial establishments needed helps for diverse jobs. As those from the region did not consider it rewarding enough to shift here for low-paying manual jobs, there began an inflow of workers from other states, leading to unauthorised squatting on government land. Owners of land that was yet to be acquired found it profitable to let out rows of small plots with narrow lanes to migrant labour. A modicum of civic services such as a few toilets, water stand posts and open drains came to be provided later.REHABILITATING WORKERSWaking up to Le Corbusier’s Edict of Chandigarh being compromised by the growth of unhygienic shanties in a modern city, which by then had become a Union Territory, courtesy the wrangling states of Punjab and Haryana, the UT administration came up with schemes to build tenements or allot vacant plots in planned colonies for the rehabilitation of labourers in the peripheral areas or even within the city.Before that, it was only the ‘cheap houses’ that were built for the dhobis (washermen) or for the government sanitation staff etc. Besides this, an otherwise elaborate plan of the new city did not provide for adequate socio-economic integration in the form of general low-cost housing. The smallest size of a plot for non-government houses was four marlas (100 sq yd) in this oasis of affluence.SLUM-FREE CHANDIGARHOn getting the privilege of representing Chandigarh in the Lok Sabha in 1991, a priority I marked for myself was making the city slum-free. There was gradual progress, but it was only under a scheme of 2006 that a need of about 25,000 dwelling units was projected to achieve the zero-slum target. Funds under the Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission (JNNURM) came in adequate measure. No new squatters’ colony has sprung up since and only one colony stands on private land.The migrant labourers were, in the meantime, cursed for being a burden on others: for eating away subsidies, for paying no taxes, for making the city unclean, for generating heaps of garbage, for crime and what not! “If they work for us, they get paid for it,” has been our self-righteous attitude towards them. Analyses of the last two elections point to these people moving away from me, yet my belief in them remained unshaken.Then came this invisible micro-organism called novel coronavirus. Its spread forced a lockdown on over 130 crore Indians, including the 12 lakh plus people of Chandigarh. With just a four-hour notice, all movement of humans stopped; shops, factories, educational institutions, hotels, restaurants, theatres, cinema halls, salons, parlours, private clinics, even normal OPDs in government hospitals came to an abrupt halt.There were no vendors selling fruits and vegetables, balloons, or other knick-knacks for children in deserted streets, no maids for household chores, no access to gyms for the fitness freaks, no entry to parlours and salons or services of a beautician at home.LEFT HIGH AND DRYWe stood deprived of all services that we had so far taken for granted. The effect of the lockdown began to sink in and the importance of the role that migrant labour plays in our lives became more and more pronounced. On the other hand, the migrants, holed up in one-room tenements, losing their source of daily bread, came to the brink of starvation. With no cash in their pockets, most of them stared at starvation. In desperation, they embarked upon a trek to their places of origin, even a thousand kilometres away.Covid-fearing officials along the state borders aborted their plans. Now, the Indian Railways have started running special shramik (workers) trains to ferry the migrants desirous of rejoining their separated families. The registration centre in Sector 43 now overflows with people clamouring for a ticket back home.LOCKDOWN HIGHLIGHTS INEQUALITYTell-tale stories of agonising hardships normally highlight the inequality in a ‘welfare’ state. This only stands more pronounced during this lockdown. Yet, it has thrown up a situation where, for once, we who constitute the upper crust of society feel the pinch of having to do without the services that had been available for the asking. Only a few thousand persons, including women and children, have boarded the special trains so far, but a change is already perceptible.We now want the departing ones to stay on. They are no more a burden on society; they pay all (indirect) taxes included in the retail prices of goods that they are able to afford, they consume less and, therefore, generate less trash; their areas are not cleaned daily and, therefore, the heaps of garbage that give them company 24x7.The entrepreneurs know what the economists have said: Labour’s contribution to production is more than that of capital. For the wheel of progress to keep moving, the migrant worker is indispensable. This is the truth that Covid-19 has brought home to us.The writer is a former Union minister||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-and-a-realisation-the-migrant-worker-is-indispensable/story-Fx0pPh2Ztaa42KoqH5eOWP.html
16-05-2020||City||Youth murdered over argument on pigeon-keeping business||A 19-year-old youth was allegedly murdered by his four friends over an argument on pigeon-keeping business at Haraiyu Khurd village of Patran sub-division in the district, police said on Friday. Victim Sukhchain Singh was stabbed multiple times before his body was dumped near a gurdwara outside the village. Amrik Singh, father of the deceased, told police that the accused came to their house around 7.30pm on Thursday and asked Sukhchain to join them for a birthday party of one of them. “Around 11 pm, the family was informed that Sukhchain was lying injured near a gurdwara,” police said. He was immediately rushed to the government hospital in Patran where doctors declared him brought dead. The accused have been identified as Jhajj Singh, Karanjeet Singh, Rahul Singh and Amar Singh, all in their 20s. They are on run.Patran SHO Baljeet Singh said the victim sustained injuries on his neck and backbone. “During investigation, it emerged that the accused had a heated argument with Sukhchain over pigeon-keeping business,” he said.A case has been registered against the accused under Section 302 of the IPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/youth-murdered-over-argumenton-pigeon-keeping-business/story-6RkSPFT88EZrZCEzcaflXO.html
16-05-2020||City||Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra likely to peak by June-end, says health minister||Expecting a peak in the number of coronavirus cases by the end of June, the state plans to issue directives to all private hospitals and nursing homes in Mumbai to reserve 60% beds for Covid-19 patients. State health minister Rajesh Tope on Friday said that chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has been requested to take this decision to tide over the shortage of beds for moderate and serious coronavirus patients in the city. The remaining 40% beds will be kept for other patients. This is as per a recommendation made by a taskforce led by Dr Sanjay Oak, which was formed by the state government to bring down the mortality rate. Thackeray is yet to take a call on the request. Since May 6, Maharashtra has been recording more than 1,000 cases daily. On Thursday, it saw 1,602 cases, the highest one-day spike so far. Mumbai recorded 991 cases on Thursday, which was the sharpest single-day spike recorded so far. Since May 1, the state has reported as many as 18,602 cases, whereas the total number of cases registered in April month was 10,201. On Friday, the state’s tally reached 29,100 cases, while in Mumbai, the total number of cases stands at 17,671. Tope said they expect the cases to peak by June end. “All predictions about rise in cases in Mumbai and Maharashtra have not come true, but the numbers are rising and peak is yet to come. Going by mathematical predictions, the actual peak is likely to come by the end of June. It means, the number of cases in Mumbai will increase four times (over 60,000 cases). We are trying to prevent it, but we need to be prepared for the worst and hope for the best,” Tope said.Unlike other red zones in the state, Mumbai is facing shortage of beds for dedicated Covid Health Centers and Dedicated Covid Hospitals (DCH). DCHC provide services to Covid-19 patients with mild and moderate symptoms, while serious patients are admitted to DCH. “We need more beds for mild or moderate and serious patients in Mumbai. Availability of ICU beds is again a challenge. I have requested chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to issue directives to all private hospitals in Mumbai to reserve 60-80% beds for Covid-19 patients. With this, we will be able to utilize all beds at private hospitals, which are not in use due to the pandemic,” Tope said.The health minister said that the hospitals will run with their existing staff. The only change is that the beds will be reserved for Covid-19 patients. The rest of the beds in the hospitals will be kept for others cases such as pregnancy, stroke, ischemic heart disease, cancer, and accidents.Many private hospitals in the city are vacant at present, with not even 25% occupancy. “The treatment will be affordable as it will be based on the General Insurers Public Sector Association (GIPSA) policy or the package determined under Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Aarogya Yojana (MJPJAY) under which the state government provides free treatment and surgeries for 1,100 ailments,” Tope said.Tope said the hospitals won’t be able to ignore the government directives. “When will they serve the city if not now? We have given them land and they are running under charitable trusts. We have many legislations such as Epidemic Diseases Act, Maharashtra Essential Services and Maintenance Act and Maharashtra Public Trust Act etc. under which action can be taken against them, if they do not follow orders,” he said.A senior representative from a well-known hospital said they have to follow government orders. “If the government passes such an order, we will have no option but to accept it considering the current circumstances,” he said, requesting not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-cases-in-maharashtra-likely-to-peak-by-june-end-says-health-minister/story-elJQTAk33ueOSSSqVctOaK.html
16-05-2020||Chandigarh||Lockdown, breezy summer hit Bathinda’s room cooler industry||The air cooler manufacturing industry of Bathinda, which is considered to be the largest in Punjab, is severely hit by lockdown due to coronavirus outbreak and a cooler summer this year.There are around 100 factories engaged in manufacturing of room coolers and ancillary units in Bathinda, making it the hub of cooler manufacturing sector in the region.Industry sources say that against the average production of five lakh units of coolers, this season, the local units may not be able to supply half of it due to low availability of trained workers and steel sheets.A leading cooler manufacturer and ex-president of the Bathinda industrial growth centre, Kapil Goyal, said that since steel plants are not fully functional, cooler manufacturing sector is facing a shortage of raw material.“When lockdown was imposed in Punjab on March 22, manufacturers had a stock of raw material for a few days. As manufacturing began from May 5, there is no supply of steel sheets. Moreover, transporters have increased charges and the frail industry is unable to bear the additional expenses,” he said.Vikram Lakhi, president of the North India Cooler and Fan Manufacturing Association, said that Bathinda caters to the demands of markets in Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and parts of western Uttar Pradesh, but the prevalent climatic conditions are giving a severe blow to the cooler sector.“Maximum temperature even in the semi-arid areas of southern Punjab is hovering around 35 degree Celsius. Owing to the ongoing climatic conditions, the demand for coolers is quite low. It is unfair to charge average electricity bill for the period when manufacturing was prohibited by the state government,” said Lakhi.Another entrepreneur, Ashu Goyal, said the Bathinda cooler industry has a sizeable dependence on workers from other states who are not ready work in Punjab right now.“During lockdown, the workers were duly provided food and wages but as factories resume operations, workers have refused to work. We lost our peak season of manufacturing coolers to the lockdown and the future seems bleak,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/lockdown-breezy-summer-hit-bathinda-s-room-cooler-industry/story-upDmrKGVzXTX59ihRprFPN.html
16-05-2020||Chandigarh||Students ask Panjab University authorities to reconsider late fee for delay in form submission||Various student bodies of Panjab University (PU) on Friday asked the university authorities not to charge late fee for delay in submission of examination forms amid the Covid-19 outbreak.The development comes a day after PU extended the deadline for submission of examination forms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/students-ask-panjab-university-authorities-to-reconsider-late-fee-for-delay-in-form-submission/story-ryzmiCQAomynW1iosQ7iNN.html
16-05-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University’s non-teaching staff relying on public transport demand exemption from work||The non-teaching staff of Panjab University (PU) have asked the varsity administration to exempt those employees from duties who commute via public transport. They have also requested the university to change the office timings for the employees. PU reopened its offices on May 13 after getting a nod from the UT administration to run offices with 33% staff on rotational basis amid the Covid-19 outbreak. However, the non-teaching staff association has written to the varsity that many of the staffers who used to come to the offices using public transport are unable to report to work. Panjab University Staff (non-teaching) Association (PUSA) president Deepak Kaushik said, “We welcome PU’s step to reopen the offices. However, we have received calls from many employees who are unable to come to the offices as they rely on public transport for their movement.”In a letter addressed to PU vice-chancellor Raj Kumar, the employees have requested the authorities to exempt those employees from the duties till public transport becomes functional.Besides this, the employees have also sought changes in the office timings from the varsity administration. The PUSA president said the employees coming to the office were made to stand in queues for a long time in order to get their thermal checkup done. Also, they were asked not to come out of the office till their shift was over, he said. “However, the employees will need to go out of their offices to have lunch and on their return, they will have to wait again for checkup, which will lead to wastage of time. So, we request the administration to change the office timings. The new timings should be from 9am to 2pm without any lunch break in between,” said Deepak Kaushik.PU registrar Karamjeet Singh said, “We have received the letter from the employees and are examining the matter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-s-non-teaching-staff-relying-on-public-transport-demand-exemption-from-work/story-RnWzSDnUzLQgWPChAQ94eN.html
16-05-2020||City||FIRs against Moose Wala: SSPs directed to depute SP-level inquiry officers||Two weeks after Punjabi singer Sidhu Moose Wala was booked by Sangrur and Barnala district police following a viral video in which the singer could be seen firing an official assault rifle, SSPs of both the police districts have been directed to depute SP-level officers to probe the case. Eight police personnel, including a deputy superintendent of police (DSP), Daljit Singh Virk, Julkan police station SHO Gurpreet Singh Bhinder and three assistant sub-inspectors, were suspended following the incident. “Since, a DSP-level officer is involved in the incident, it is required to appoint senior rank official to conduct detailed probe,” said Jatinder Singh Aulakh, inspector general of police (Patiala range).Aulakh said Barnala SSP Sandeep Goel and his Sangrur counterpart Sandeep Garg have been asked to probe how the DSP-level police officer gave permissions and deployed cops to accompany Moose Wala to fire from official weapons though too at official firing ranges. On May 4, the Barnala police booked Moose Wala under Section 188 of the IPC and 51 of the Disaster Management Act.However, a day later, another FIR under same Sections was registered at Sangrur’s Dhuri Sadar police station on the basis of another video which surfaced on social media in which Moose Wala was seen firing with official weapons along with his friends at the Latha Kothi police range.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/firs-against-moose-wala-ssps-directed-to-depute-sp-level-inquiry-officers/story-4Crz20tLZqtMd82FX6lgMN.html
16-05-2020||Chandigarh||High-risk deportation flight with 132 Haryana, Punjab immigrants to land on May 19||A special high-risk charter (SHRC) mission conducted by the United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) will repatriate 161 illegal Indian migrants, including 132 from Haryana and Punjab, on May 19. The chartered flight run by the ICE air operations, the air transportation arm of the US agency entrusted with the task to remove illegal migrants from American soil, will land on Tuesday evening at Amritsar’s Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International airport with 76 illegal immigrants from Haryana and 56 from Punjab on board.As per a US Department of Homeland Security (DHS) communication to New Delhi, these immigrants were in the custody of ICE at detention centres in Texas, Arizona, California, New York and Washington. Most of the detainees from Haryana and Punjab besides Goa, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Kerala and Tamil Nadu were kept in detention at Prairieland Detention Center in Texas.MANDATORY QUARANTINE PROTOCOL The deportees, as per the standard operating protocol, will have to undergo mandatory 14-day quarantine on their arrival due to the Covid-19 situation. Secretary, NRI Affairs, Punjab, Rahul Bhandari, said deportees from Punjab will be quarantined in their respective districts, while those from Haryana will be quarantined in their home state.“We are trying to tie up with far-off states like Gujarat, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and will quarantine their deportees if they request us to do so,” he added.Haryana officials said they were working out the modalities for quarantining the deportees. The SHRC mission is undertaken by ICE to deport individuals who cannot be removed via commercial airlines to locations worldwide, or because of other security concerns or risk factors. An SHRC flight costs about $6,929 (Rs 5.25 lakh) to $26,795 (Rs 20.3 lakh) per flight hour depending on aircraft requirement, according to an ICE statement.WOMEN, TEENAGERS ON BOARD DHS records show that among 161 deportees arriving on May 19 at Amritsar, three are women – two from Gujarat and one from Maharashtra — and three 19-year olds (two from Haryana’s Kaithal and Kurukshetra and one from UP’s Pilibhit ). Besides, there are at least 15 deportees who are 20 years or less. The oldest deportee is a 59-year-old resident of Hoshiarpur in Punjab.CROSSOVERS FROM MEXICO Statistics show that 92 Indian migrants were detained by US Customs and Border Protection personnel in Texas after they illegally crossed into the US from Mexico. There were 21 detentions in New York, 22 in Atlanta and as many in San Francisco.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/high-risk-deportation-flight-with-132-haryana-punjab-immigrants-to-land-on-may-19/story-RVxcdzbigcOETvuWLqhHWN.html
16-05-2020||City||Ludhiana police to form welfare committees to help migrants||Days after a labourer committed suicide after failing to arrange ration for his family, the Ludhiana police has decided to form migrant welfare committees at the police station level.The committee will consist of five to 12 members, and ensure adequate ration supply for labourers besides assisting them in returning to their native places.Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said, “The committees will address the problems being faced by labourers in the factories and their ‘vehras’ (labour quarters). They will help them in obtaining curfew passes and help those workers who wish to go to shelter homes.” “The station house officer (SHO) will hold daily meetings with the committee members and officers above the rank of assistant commissioner of police (ACP) will convene a meeting with the members once a week,” he said.The police chief also added that the committee members will enrol 30 volunteers in every police station to help in enforcing the lockdown.The decision has come in wake of the suicide of labourer Ajit Rai of Rajiv Gandhi Colony. He had ended his life by hanging self on the intervening night of May 10 and 11, for not getting ration despite frequent efforts.Labourers in the city have also been protesting for three consecutive days, demanding to be sent them back to their native places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-police-to-form-welfare-committees-to-help-migrants/story-gUkoUpMYiuhivBnmrefITP.html
16-05-2020||Chandigarh||No losses from liquor sale in 2019-20, except during curfew days, says CM||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday said the state excise department has not incurred any losses in 2019-20, except during the curfew period which are being assessed. The CM made this statement after a meeting with excise department officials to ponder over the demand of liquor traders for amendment in the excise policy in the wake of Covid-19 crisis. The statement assumes significance as it comes at a time when the excise department is in the line of fire from the opposition alleging dwindling revenue receipts from liquor sale and contractors are trying to strike a bargain with the government.As per figures released by the excise department, revenue recoveries by March 22 were Rs 5,222 crore, against the annual revenue quota of Rs. 5,676 crore, registering a shortfall of Rs 454 crore.Giving details, a department release said that revenue receipts had shown marked increase since the Amarinder government took over the state in March 2017. The revenues increased from Rs 4,405.72 crore in 2016-17 to Rs 5,135.68 crore in 2017-18, registering a 16% increase. Noting that in 2019-20, curfew was imposed from March 23, the officials said that all the fees (fixed licence fee and additional fixed licence fee) for 2020-21, which were to be deposited in the March could not be deposited. This included Rs 278 crore for renewed groups, Rs 68 crore from the newly allotted groups and another Rs 120 crore in routine receipts which could not be deposited on account of the curfew restrictions, they added.Hence, Rs 466 crore was not received in March 2020 by the state exchequer, the release said. Taking these figures into account, the actual receipts for the year would, in fact, turn out to be much higher than last year’s, the officials added.The excise department also stated that all allotted vends in the state have now opened in the state, except those in the containment zones. GoM MEETS LIQUOR CONTRACTORS Meanwhile, in a meeting with Punjab government’s group of ministers (GoM) on Friday, liqour contractors demanded amendment in the excise policy for the current financial year, so as to avert their apprehended losses. The contractors are are demanding that the annual quota of liquor fixed at Rs 6,200 crore be reworked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-losses-from-liquor-sale-in-2019-20-except-during-curfew-days-says-cm/story-lTxcSWX6uSxs0i3AprPIdP.html
16-05-2020||City||Haryana sees 62% dip in stubble burning cases||Haryana has reported 62% decline in stubble burning this year as only 2,135 active fire locations were detected in the state since April 15 as compared to 5,734 such incidents reported during the corresponding period last year, reveals the data by Haryana state pollution control board. However, imposing a complete ban on these fires still remains a challenge for the authorities as 364 cases of stubble burning were reported in the state on Thursday. As per the data of the pollution control board (HSPCB), Jhajjar district reported the highest number of stubble burning cases (364), followed by Jind (260), Sirsa (234), Rohtak (228), Fatehabad (210), Hisar (202), Bhiwani (102), Panipat (69), Karnal (50) and Kaithal (46). S Narayanan, member secretary, Haryana state pollution control board, said, “I think the awareness factor may be a reason behind a steep decline in the incidents of stubble burning in the state.”He said the wheat stubble also has economic value as it is a good feed for cattle. “But, continuous efforts by the ground-level officials and awareness among the farmers helped to reduce the number of incidents of stubble burning in the state,” he added. About the future plans to put a complete check on stubble burning, Narayanan said, “A good publicity has already been done and it brought favourable results. In future, more campaigns will be launched to make farmers aware about the harmful effects of burning the crop waste.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-sees-62-dip-in-stubble-burning-cases/story-Bt1Xc4qHWNlpuv0bztliYM.html
16-05-2020||Chandigarh||Left homeless, migrants in Chandigarh caught between the devil and the deep blue sea||Even as 1,200 migrants were supposed to board the 2pm train to Bihar on Friday, over 2,000 turned up at the Inter State Bus Terminal (ISBT) in Sector 43, Chandigarh, on Friday. According to the officials, this has become a routine affair as many migrants stranded in Chandigarh are coming here without receiving the necessary SMS for boarding buses to the railway station. But, for these labourers, there is no other option, as they are homeless and have nowhere else to go.‘KICKED OUT’After the train had departed, migrants could be seen sitting by the slip roads between Sectors 43 and 42 and between Sectors 41 and 42, even as a few policemen tried maintaining social distancing here. Among them, Nageshwar Sarna, said, “I gave up the room that I had rented in Maloya as I had not paid any rent and my landlord was threatening to force me out. I have tried to tell the police that I have nowhere else to go but they are not ready to listen.” When asked, he said he was unaware that landlords weren’t supposed to collect rent during the lockdown.Near the Sector 43/44 roundabout, Arjun, who hails from Uttar Pradesh, said he was living in Faidan village with his uncle, but he had kicked him out. “We had no money to eat and my uncle was refusing to feed me. When he got to know that trains are taking people back to their native places, he told me to get going. For two days, I have been coming here but my turn hasn’t come,” he said.Seventeen-year-old Pankaj Kumar was standing with his two brothers next to the Sector 17 ISBT . “We were living with a cousin here who misbehaved with us frequently and made us leave. I have nowhere to go tonight. A friend of mine had a place here, but he boarded the train back home on Friday,” Kumar said.One of the UT administration officials on duty here said, “Many people are coming here without getting the text messages. On Wednesday, some people who had the SMS couldn’t leave from the bus stand, while others went to their place in the confusion. They had to be adjusted on Thursday.” He said migrants from as far as Chamkaur Sahib had also reached the station hoping to catch a train.About 1.5 lakh people have registered for the Shramik Special trains from Chandigarh. Of these, 12,500 have already departed from the city in 10 trains. Chandigarh station superintendent Anil Aggarwal said it was not fixed till when the trains will continue, but two trains a day can be expected to depart at least till May 20. GURDWARAS PITCH INMeanwhile, city gurdwaras are stepping in to feed the migrants left homeless. As per manager of the Sector 34 gurdwara, Amanjeet Singh, food for 1,500 people was being sent out daily through government agencies. Head cook of the Sector 8 gurdwara, Harminder Singh, said 700 food packets were being sent to Sector 43 per day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/left-homeless-migrants-in-chandigarh-forced-to-wait-their-turn-on-roads-for-homecoming/story-fI5JNIPAFqxzgqTYb4g8vJ.html
16-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Independent Schools’ Association meets education department to resolve conflict on fee collection||Independent Schools’ Association (ISA) held a meeting with the Chandigarh education department to resolve the conflict on the issue of fee collection, on Friday. The meeting was mandated by the Punjab and Haryana high court wherein members of ISA met education secretary Arun Kumar Gupta and director school education, Rubinderjit Singh Brar.HS Mamik, president of ISA said, “Our request was that as we enter the fourth stage of the lockdown from May 17, it will be appropriate to withdraw the order of fees deferment, as things were returning to normal.”“The department agreed that we could call our staff to school for running online classes. The secretary suggested we could accept fees monthly, instead of quarterly, which we accepted,” he added.However, there was no conclusive solution to the fee conflict. Gupta said the ISA was “given a hearing as per directions of the Punjab and Haryana high court.” He said the decision is pending.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-independent-schools-association-meets-education-department-to-resolve-conflict-on-fee-collection/story-jetC9dACZWNqkFtMy4GkBP.html
16-05-2020||City||Liquor vends open, get tepid response on Day 1 in Ludhiana||Over a week after the government allowed the sale of liquor in the state, vends in Ludhiana opened on Friday from 7am to 6pm, but got a tepid response, perhaps due to shortage of money with residents, especially the labour class. The vendors had marked circles outside their vends to maintain social distancing, but no rush of buyers was witnessed at the vends.A few contractors rued that they were forced to open the vends by the government and the district administration even when the government has failed to provide any relief to the sector. The wine contractors are demanding a review of the excise policy, including withdrawal of the quota condition.There are around 750 vends in the district, including those in Khanna, Samrala, Jagraon and all had remained shut for two months. The state government earns an annual revenue of around Rs 1,100 crore from liquor vends, which comes to over Rs 3 crore on a daily basis. The vends have remained closed since March 22.A group of contractors also conducted a meeting with education minister Vijay Inder Singla and housing and urban development Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria in Chandigarh on Friday. Finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal could not participate in the meeting due to demise of his father, Gurdas Badal.Leading the group of contractors, Varinder Sharma said, “The government is giving a positive response and the ministers have assured a solution in a day or two. The vends have been opened in the district and would remain open.”Another contractor, requesting anonymity, said, “The government wants the contractors to open vends and pay fee. But, it is not giving any relief to the vendors, though they have suffered huge losses. Rather than forcing contractors to open vends, the government should provide immediate relief to the contractors by reviewing the excise policy,” said the contractor, adding less than 1% sale was witnessed at his vends on Friday. The liquor shop owners in Ludhiana have refused to provide home delivery service.Vinay, a worker at a liquor vend in the Focal Point area, said due to prolonged lockdown, labour is not having money to purchase liquor, due to which vends wore a deserted look on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/liquor-vends-open-get-tepid-response-on-day-1-in-ludhiana/story-MOOaR2zbznw5MGfrZYMSoM.html
16-05-2020||City||Missing liquor case: Prime accused complains of chest pain, shifted to PGIMS Rohtak||The main accused in missing liquor case Bhupinder Singh on Friday was admitted to the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak after he complained of chest pain.He was in police custody since Monday after 5,500 boxes of liquor went missing from a godown belonging to his mother in Sonepat’s Kharkhauda. CMO at a community health centre in Kharkhauda Dr Ravish said that the police brought Bhupinder to the centre on Friday evening after he complained of chest pain and fell unconscious.“We have referred him to PGIMS, Rohtak after giving him primary treatment,” he added. Meanwhile, residents of Sisana village gheraoed the Kharkhauda community health centre after Bhupinder was brought there and accused the police of assaulting the liquor trader.Sarpanch of the village Munni Devi alleged that police had thrashed Bhupinder while he was in their custody. “The police want to kill Bhupinder after names of officials from their department had cropped up in the case,” she added.Later, Kharkhauda DSP Harender Kumar and SHO Mandeep took Bhupinder to PGIMS, Rohtak in an ambulance. Refuting the allegations, Harender Kumar said that the accused was brought to the health centre after his health deteriorated. The police did not thrash him. A three-member special investigation team along with Sonepat police is probing the role of some liquor traders, two former SHOs, some policemen and excise officials behind this liquor scam. Two former Kharkhauda SHOs, who were suspended last week for their alleged role in the case are on the run, and the police are making efforts to nab them.A police official privy to the development said that during the course of investigation Bhupinder had revealed that he along with his accomplices was involved in selling Haryana-made liquor in Punjab by using fake labels. “The accused also confessed to carrying a spare key of the godown, from where 5,500 boxes of liquor went missing. We have also recovered 1,400 boxes of illicit liquor from the same godown,” the police added.The police had also seized ₹97 lakh in cash, two pistols and three mobile phones besides a sports utility vehicle following a raid at Bhupinder’s house in Chandigarh on Sunday. The two godowns in Sonepat from where a huge stock of liquor had reportedly gone missing last week are stated to belong to accused Bhupinder’s mother.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/missing-liquor-case-prime-accused-complains-of-chest-pain-shifted-to-pgims-rohtak/story-R1hFwqbmAGbsr5kOKQSHzO.html
16-05-2020||Mumbai||State’s case count goes up to 29,100; govt calls for lockdown extension||Maharashtra’s coronavirus case count went up to 29,100 with the addition of 1,576 infections on Friday, as the state government said it is in favour of extending the lockdown.India’s worst-affected state accounts for more than 35% of the total cases in the country. The worst-hit city, Mumbai, reported 933 new cases, its second-highest single-day spike, taking the total to 17,671. The state’s death toll went up to 1,068, including 655 in Mumbai. Of Friday’s 49 deaths, 34 were in Mumbai, six in Pune, two each in Dhule, Kalyan-Dombivli, Akola city and one each in Panvel, Jalgaon and Aurangabad city. Twenty-two of the patients who died on Friday were above 60 years of age, while 23 were in the age group of 40 to 59 years and the remaining were below the age of 40 years. Thirty-two of them had high-risk comorbidities including diabetes, hypertension and heart ailments.The state has seen 10,037 cases in seven days, while the deaths reported in this period were 337. Mumbai reported 5,529 cases and 193 deaths in the past seven days. With an average of more than 1,400 cases a day over the past week, the state is set to cross the 30,000 mark on Saturday. Meanwhile, the state on Friday submitted its position to the Centre on extending the lockdown, according to officials. The state is in favour of extension with more relaxations in less affected zones, so as to ensure economic activities resume gradually.“We have already given the nod for industrial activities in green and orange zones with some conditions and are getting good response. A total of 38,287 industrial units with a workforce of 10.66 lakh workers are in operation in the state. With more relaxations for industrial and commercial activities in these two zones, we also expect more commercial activities to resume in red zones too,” said a senior government official.State health minister Rajesh Tope said that the decision about red zones will be taken by May 18, but the state government is considering easing the lockdown in non-affected areas in red-zone districts too. “There will be more commercial and industrial activities allowed in green and orange zones from Monday by keeping the district’s borders sealed. Non-essential shops could be allowed in a staggered manner. We are also of the opinion that non-affected tehsils or areas in red zones should also have restrictions relaxed. Like for Pune, activities can be allowed in tehsils where there are no cases,” he said. The state government is also planning to resume registration of land deals and vehicles. Largely affected cities like Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai, Pune, Nashik may also see relaxations in commercial operations. “We will wait for the Central directives for lockdown implementation in red zones. The state cannot relax restrictions imposed by the Centre, although it has the right to impose stricter norms. We expect more activities to be allowed outside containment areas in red zones and that would help us ease restrictions in big cities,” said another official who is privy to the development. The number of tests in the state touched 2,50,436 on Friday. 22,1336 of them were negative. Of the 10,291 tests conducted in the past 24 hours, 1,576 tested positive at 15.31%. Maharashtra’s mortality rate has dropped to 3.70%, still above the national rate of 3.23%, while the doubling of cases rate in Maharashtra is little more than 10 days.A total of 3,29,302 people are currently under home quarantine, while 16,306 are under institutional quarantine. 14,167 teams of health workers have screened 58.97 lakh peoples. A total of 6,564 patients have fully recovered at various hospitals, after testing positive in the past nine weeks.The state has 1,473 containment zones. In Mumbai, the municipal corporation has broken the zones into smaller ones for better monitoring.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, his deputy Ajit Pawar discussed the extension of the lockdown and exit plan with Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar at the bungalow earmarked for the Bal Thackeray memorial in Dadar. Senior ministers and key officials from the government attended the meeting. Pawar reportedly suggested the state government to go for easing restrictions on industrial and commercial activities as it would help the government revive the state economy, which has sustained huge losses due to the lockdown.After the meeting, chief secretary Ajoy Mehta had a video conference with the cabinet secretary of the Centre, during which the state’s stand on the lockdown was submitted. Representatives of industries and businesses in commercial activities have requested the state government to allow more activities in green and orange zones. In its memorandum to Thackeray, Retailers Association of India (RAI) has demanded that micromarkets in non-containment areas should be considered. “It may be prudent if the suburbs are demarcated ward-wise and stores in non-containment zones are identified and allowed to open,” said Kumar Rajagopalan, CEO of RAI. He said that the malls, too, should be allowed without theatres and food malls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-s-case-count-goes-up-to-29-100-govt-calls-for-lockdown-extension/story-bqhtu2pwL4BKV6U7dQgAXK.html
16-05-2020||City||Over 450 challans issued to two-wheeler riders in 2 days in Ludhiana||Ludhiana police has commenced a drive against two-wheeler riders to make the residents follow the social distancing norms while commuting. In two days, police have issued over 450 challans for violation of the orders of the district magistrate.As per the orders, not more than one person is allowed to travel on two-wheelers to ensure social distancing. In addition, face mask is mandatory for everyone who steps out of the house.The drive was planned after Punjab director general of police visited Ludhiana on Sunday and found residents violating the norms. He directed the police commissionerate to intensify the enforcement of Covid guidelines.Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, traffic) Gurdev Singh said, “All the police stations and traffic police personnel were ordered to keep a check on the people commuting on the roads, especially the two-wheeler riders. They are being told to maintain social distance to avoid the spread of the virus.”“Challans are being issued under Section 177 of the Motor Vehicle Act,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/over-450-challans-issued-to-two-wheeler-riders-in-2-days-in-ludhiana/story-AiPOCeWJ7nhU9hY7j0t0uK.html
16-05-2020||City||Father held for rape as 21-year-old woman delivers stillborn baby in Panchkula||A man was arrested on Friday on charges of sexually exploiting his 21-year-old daughter, a fact that was revealed after she delivered a stillborn baby at the civil hospital in Sector 6 on Friday.The women’s police station at Sector 5 was informed about the matter after the hospital staff felt something was amiss. While being questioned, the victim revealed her father had been repeatedly raping her, resulting in the pregnancy.The SHO of the police station, Neha Chauhan, said though the woman maintained that no other member of the family was aware of her plight, there were many gaps in her statement. “She says her mother did not know about the rapes even though she was in the ninth month of pregnancy,” Chauhan said.The victim could not be questioned further as she was recovering from the birth. “We will record her statement again in a couple of days after she’s better,” Chauhan added.Rape charges have been filed and the man has been arrested. He will be produced before the local court on Saturday. Police are likely to seek his remand for questioning to gather more information.According to SHO, the family lives in Abhaypur in Sector 19 and did not appear to be economically backward as the accused worked in a kitchen appliance company. The victim has four other siblings. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/father-held-for-rape-as-21-year-old-woman-delivers-stillborn-baby-in-panchkula/story-DA8mQU0FSSgvRKgcebnOjO.html
16-05-2020||City||Two families in Mumbra pelt stones at each other, injure cop||Two families, who are neighbours in Mumbra, fought over cats and started pelting stones at each other on Thursday night. When the police intervened, they pelted stones at them too. One police personnel sustained minor injuries. The Mumbra police have registered a case of riot against both the parties.The incident took place at Famous Colony where Yasmin Khan, 42, lives on the third floor and Nasir Patel, 48, lives on the second floor. The Patels have cats which often enters other houses in the housing society. Khan and his brother had complained to the society secretary earlier about this. On Thursday, both families started fighting over this issue again. Assistant commissioner of police, S Ghosalkar, said, “Around 40 people had gathered and were pelting stones at each other. When the police teams reached there, the groups started pelting stones at them too. We have registered riot case against both the families. No one is arrested. One police officer suffered minor injury on his leg.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-families-in-mumbra-pelt-stones-at-each-other-injure-cop/story-3kxi4PMfW4qTrLXf5Ty6lI.html
16-05-2020||City||Kalyan shopkeepers get safety tips as KDMC mulls phase-wise lifting of curbs||Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) will ease restrictions for the shops in non-containment zones. Though it has not said from when it would start, the civic body has given guidelines to shops.“The civic body has planned to open shops in non-containment zones in phases. We have published a detailed notice on our websites and social media explains how shopkeepers should do business by following norms. It has guidelines for shopkeepers, vegetable and fruits vendors, banks, private transportation, police and mediapersons,”said a KDMC official, requesting anonymity.Kalyan-Dombivli has 87 containment zones.The guidelines have been chalked out by expert doctors. Shopkeepers should call in employees on a rotation basis, each customer should be screened, digital payment method, use sanitisers all should wear masks. Shopkeepers should keep washing hands and cleaning their shops regularly.“Shopkeepers must maintain a checklist with them and follow them strictly,” said the civic official.The civic body said every shop should have CCTV cameras.The guidelines for police and mediapersons are to not send anyone who has health issues to containment zones.To view the guidelines, one can log on to the KDMC website www.kdmc.gov.in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kalyan-shopkeepers-get-safety-tips-as-kdmc-mulls-phase-wise-lifting-of-curbs/story-3Ylfq4W8sgaagQm7twy6qL.html
16-05-2020||City||Industry begins operations in mixed land-use areas in Ludhiana, may gain momentum from Monday||Heaving a sigh of relief, the industry in mixed land-use areas started operations on Friday. A majority of industrialists are currently working to lubricate the machinery and sanitise the establishments as the units have remained shut for at least two months but the operations are expected to gain momentum from MondayThe micro and small industry is relieved that now it will not have to bear the fixed expenses, including salaries of workers and electricity bills, with their units closed.Around 50,000 units are situated in mixed land use and non-designated areas of the city, which mostly include cycle parts and hosiery units. As per information, the micro/tiny industries in these areas constitute about 50% of the industrial set-up in the district, and employ about 5-6 lakh workers.President of the Janta Nagar Small Scale Manufacturers Association (JNSSMA) Jaswinder Thukral said, “The industry in mixed land-use areas has slowly started coming back on track and production will pick up pace in 3-4 days. Hailing the decision of the state government, Thukral said this will also stop the movement of labour out of the city.”“The labourers are leaving the city due to lack of work, but now at least the industrial labourers will not move out as the industries in both designated and mixed land-use areas have commenced operations,” said Thukral.President of the Knitwear and Textile Club Vinod Thapar said, “The hosiery industry has suffered a loss of around Rs 1,000 crore due to the lockdown and the state government has permitted the industry to open at the right time, as now they will be able to manufacture the products for winter.”President of the Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisations (FICO) Gurmeet Singh Kular and president of the Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU) Upkar Ahuja said it was also a relief for the large industry, which would not have been able to operate for long in the absence of micro and small units in mixed land use areas. They said many of the units in mixed land-use areas do the labour job for large industries. This way, the industry would also be able to retain its labour, which was moving out in large numbers, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/industry-begins-operations-in-mixed-land-use-areas-in-ludhiana-may-gain-momentum-from-monday/story-QaNpGgZlWWrsdcY8AhrNiI.html
16-05-2020||Lucknow||One nation, one card: UP ready for national rollout ahead of Centre’s deadline||Uttar Pradesh is ready for the national rollout of the ‘One Nation, One Card’ scheme anytime as it has already started inter-district and inter-state ration card portability with 15 states, commissioner, food and civil supplies, Manish Chauhan said on Friday. The Centre has fixed March 2021 as the deadline for the countrywide launch of the scheme.Once the national rollout is in place, any person holding a ration card under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) can buy his monthly ration from any public distribution system (PDS) outlet in the country just by mentioning his card number.“Let all other states make their preparations, we, on our part, are ready for the national portability of ration cards,” Chauhan said.Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday said that as of now 20 states had come on board to implement the inter-state ration card portability. “The national rollout of the One Nation, One Card System in all the states and Union Territories will be made by March 2021,” she said ,while announcing the second tranche of the Rs 20 lakh-crore economic stimulus package.The system, she said, would help migrant workers and their family members avail of the public distribution system (PDS) benefits from any fair price shop in the country.UP has inter-state portability with 15 states—Andhra Pradesh, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Jharkhand, Kerala, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Telangana, Tripura, Bihar, Punjab Himachal Pradesh and one Union Territory—Dadra Nagar Haveli. UP began inter-district and inter-state portability with 16 states from May 1. The portability is applicable to all the ration cards that have been active for last six months.“Till now, 6.27 lakh intra-district and 47,229 inter-district beneficiaries have availed the portability service,” Chauhan said, adding, “ As many as 22 people from Maharashtra, one from Kerala, 23 from Haryana and two from Rajasthan have availed the portability in UP while UP’s three residents have taken their ration in Karnataka and 10 in Maharashtra are using the same service.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/one-nation-one-card-up-ready-for-national-rollout-ahead-of-centre-s-deadline/story-Ft4zFYHDIsvNoG9b4ZLHMJ.html
16-05-2020||Chandigarh||Upset over not taking her out, Phillaur woman sets husband on fire, booked||A 27-year-old woman in Phillaur town of Jalandhar district was booked on Friday for allegedly set her husband on fire in his sleep as she was annoyed with him for not taking her for shopping and to her parents’ place during the lockdown. The man, a railways employee, sustained over 45% burns, police said.Ramandeep Kaur (27) was married to Gurpreet Singh (29) of Phillaur’s Atwal Colony seven months ago after they came in contact through a social networking site, police added. Her parental house is in Kartar Nagar locality of Khanna in Ludhiana district. “She always pressurised me to take her to her parents’ house and for shopping. Even during the lockdown, she continued with different demands. I, however, refused to go out due to the ongoing curfew,” Gurpreet said.He is undergoing treatment at the Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH), Ludhiana.On Wednesday night, the two had a heated argument following which he went to sleep. Around 12:30am she poured some inflammable substance over him and set the bed afire, the complainant said.Sub-inspector Kulwinder Singh, the investigating officer, said the couple fought on several occasion in the previous weeks.“We have recorded the complainant’s statement. A case under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against her on Friday,” the SI said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/upset-over-not-taking-her-out-phillaur-woman-sets-husband-on-fire-booked/story-IeVNlrFU4YSVKjbKxXjFsL.html
16-05-2020||City||Navi Mumbai police to set up quarantine centres for staff, family||The city police will set up institutional quarantine facilities for its Covid positive personnel and their families. They will use six guest houses, a hall in the police headquarters in Kalamboli and a three-storey apartment to quarantine police personnel and their families.Navi Mumbai police commissioner Sanjay Kumar said the police guest houses will be ready by Saturday. The police have decided to use the three-storey building at Sector 5 in Nerul as quarantine centres. “The Savli building can accommodate around 100 people can be started in three to four days. We are also planning to set up beds at the hall in [Navi Mumbai] police headquarters which will have around 50 beds. These facilities would be for those who have tested positive or are waiting for their test reports,” said Kumar.So far, eight Navi Mumbai police staff have tested positive for coronavirus. The suspected cases including the police personnel and their family members can be quarantined at these facilities. Last month, a Navi Mumbai police constable’s wife died of Covid.“We have given oximeters at police stations to check oxygen saturation and a fever screening device. We have made masks, goggles and sanitisers available for our staff. A hand washing booth is also installed where police teams are stationed with timely reminders for them to wash hands,” the police chief said on the social media during a live session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navi-mumbai-police-to-set-up-quarantine-centres-for-staff-family/story-x7uMfaBYv54gzCU7ZQJZaP.html
16-05-2020||City||3 head teachers get appreciation letters from Ludhiana DEO||To recognise the efforts made by the government primary schools (GPS) of the district in increasing enrolment for the new academic session, three head teachers received appreciation letters from district education officer (elementary) Rajinder Kaur. They are Shivani Sood of GPS, Haibowal Khurd; Nisha Rani of GPS, Gaispura; and Barjinder Kaur of GPS, Kanganwal.As many as 120 students have been enrolled for the new academic session in GPS, Haiboawl Khurd, taking its total strength to 820 students. Head teacher Shivani Sood said, “Till the last session, I had 700 students studying in pre-primary to Class 5. We kept visiting the nearby areas and held rallies in February to create awareness about the facilities available in our school. We also created an online performa to enrol students during the lockdown.”In GPS, Giaspura, around 2,292 students were studying till Class 5. The authorities managed to enhance the strength by 400, taking the total to 2,692. Head teacher Nisha Rani said, “We have qualified teachers and provide facilities such as free education, textbooks, school uniform, mid-day meals and smart classrooms. We received a good response from the parents and more than 400 new students have been enrolled in our school.”At GPS, Kanganwal, the school authorities have enrolled 175 new students in different classes. Head teacher Barjinder Kaur said, “We started the enrolment process in February and received an overwhelming response from the parents. Our students have excelled by participating in games and the school building also received facelift, due to which many parents agreed to enrol their children in our school. Now, we have a strength of 775 students. After the lockdown was imposed, we started conducting admissions online.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-head-teachers-get-appreciation-letters-from-deo-in-ludhiana/story-mlNhOch94CGJn6ef8uG1gO.html
16-05-2020||Chandigarh||Upset over not getting salary amid lockdown, 32-yr-old ends life||Upset over not being paid salary amid lockdown by the owner of a cloth showroom where he was working, a 32-year-old married man has committed suicide at his residence near Hindu College in Dhab Khatikan area. D-division SHO Harinder Singh said the victim hanged himself from a ceiling fan at the rented house when his wife was out to bring back their child from tuition. “He was debt ridden and upset over his financial situation during lockdown. He raised his concerns with the owner but latter expressed his inability to help,” he said. Police have started proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/upset-over-not-getting-salary-amid-lockdown-32-yr-old-ends-life/story-M2QZDbyn4IcMspnI71z9jN.html
16-05-2020||City||KDMC records one death, 33 new cases||A 75-year-old man from Dombivli died on Friday after being infected by Covid-19. The man’s 67-year-old brother-in-law died of Covid on May 7. “The man was admitted to Tata Amantra quarantine centre. After testing positive to the infection during his treatment, he suffered from breathlessness and was shifted to the RR Covid hospital where he died,” said Pratibha Panpatil, epidemic officer of KDMC. The total number of Covid deaths in Kalyan-Dombivli is nine.The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) recorded 33 new cases on Friday --- the highest single-day spike after it saw only six new cases of Covid-19 on Thursday. The total number of cases in Kalyan Dombivli has touched 424.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kdmc-records-one-death-33-new-cases/story-3uYp5S4IMKJQHemBOx3K6O.html
16-05-2020||Mumbai||Dharavi sees 1,145 cases; 4 lakh screened||Within a span of 35 days since Dharavi recorded its first case on April 1, around four lakh out of about eight lakh residents in Dharavi were screened for the symptoms of Covid-19 till Thursday by teams of 24 health practitioners, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation. Following the screening, about 31,725 residents were directed to remain under home quarantine and 5,857 were put in institutional quarantine. On Friday, Dharavi recorded 84 new Covid-19 cases taking the total tally to 1,145. At least 53 people have succumbed to the disease in Dharavi so far. Under the door-to-door screening method, around 47,500 people screened in high-risk zones. Out of which, 2,000 suspected cases were identified and 600 had undergone tests. Under the focus area method, BMC ensured the supply of food, groceries and medicine inside the high-risk zones to restrict the movement .However, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Kirit Somaiya alleged that home quarantine will increase the corona cases to 10,000. “Dharavi has 38,643 high-risk persons. Out of which 31,725 kept as home quarantine in 120 sqft rooms where eight to10 people stay together and use public toilets which will result in 10,000 more positive cases,” he said.Refuting to these allegations, Kiran Dighavkar, assistant commissioner of the G-North Ward said, “ Around 31,725 people were identified as low-risk contacts and hence they were advised home quarantine. However, 5,857 high-risk contacts were kept in institutional quarantine centres so there is no need to worry.” Meanwhile, BMC is conducting a special drive to disinfect toilets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/dharavi-sees-1-145-cases-4-lakh-screened/story-5Dw2OTF8LNzbB3RROOpnTP.html
16-05-2020||Chandigarh||Illegal distillery: Accused made huge profits by making liquor from ENA||The illegal distillery-cum-liquor-bottling plant, which was unearthed at Ghanaur in Patiala district on Thursday, was making huge money during the lockdown by selling illicit liquor under the guise of popular brands.The accused, who were operating the distillery from a cold store, were making liquor by diluting extra neutral alcohol (ENA), which is available at a cheap price, and sold it at exorbitant rates.“ENA costs Rs 52 per litre and has 70% of alcohol. It’s basic raw material for every hard drink. For human consumption, you have to dilute it to 40% alcohol by mixing water, and give a flavour of your popular whisky or desi brand by adding readymade flavours and colours, which are easily available in the market. For example, they packed it as Royal Stag whisky at a cost of Rs 40 per 750 ML, which is sold as 400 per bottle in illicit market, whereas its price at the vends is above Rs 500,” said an excise official.He said the police have been requested to ascertain from where the accused were procuring ENA as it is made in only 17 liqour distilleries. Khanpur Khurd sarpanch Amrik Singh, who is also an aide of Congress MLA Madan Lal Jalalpur; and Dipesh Kumar of Rajpura were booked after Thursday’s raid.MLA KAMBOJ DENIES LINK WITH ACCUSED However, Rajpura MLA Hardial Singh Kamboj said that he has no links with accused Dipesh Kumar. “I have not met him or spoken to him on phone for the past one-and-a-half years. How can anyone link him with me? Its misinformation spread by my political opponents. Dipesh is relative of a former BJP MLA of the area,” he said.OPPN SEEKS PROBE INTO ROLE OF CONG LEADERSMeanwhile, leader of opposition and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA Harpal Singh Cheema demanded a probe into the role of Congress leaders into the matter. Akali Dal leader Prem Singh Chandumajra and Surjit Singh Rakhra alleged that it was political plunder of the state exchequer and demanded attachment of the property of the accused to recover the loss in excise revenues.SIT FORMED TO PROBE MATTERMeanwhile, Patiala SSP Mandeep Singh Sidhu said a special investigation team (SIT), comprising SP Harmeet Hundal, SP Varun Sharma and DSP Manpreet Thind, will supervise the investigations into the matter and coordinate with excise officials. He said that police are conducting raids to nab the accused, who are on the run.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/illegal-distillery-accused-made-huge-profits-by-making-liquor-from-ena/story-O5jiFm4nZVhOV21WHcOVwL.html
16-05-2020||City||History-sheeter, accomplice sodomise 23-year-old man in Ludhiana||The Haibowal police have booked a history-sheeter and his accomplice for allegedly sodomising a 23-year old man and threatening him of dire consequences if he narrated the incident to anyone.The accused has been identified as Raju Sapp and his accomplice Mani Bonkar, residents of Gopal Nagar.The victim, who was known to the accused, stated, “On Wednesday, I went to meet Raju at his home as he had invited me for tea. After consuming tea, I turned unconscious and the accused sodomised me. They also warned me against revealing the incident to anyone.”Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Sham Lal, investigating the case, said a case under sections 377 (unnatural offence), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused and a hunt is on for their arrest.The ASI added Raju Sapp is a history-sheeter and is facing trial in several criminal cases, including snatchings, robberies and attempt to murder. Earlier, he was a member of the Chhota Lalla gang, but later he had joined gangster Goru Bachha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/history-sheeter-accomplice-sodomise-23-year-old-man-in-ludhiana/story-WhTrqshENgNQzsXD3hHoaJ.html
16-05-2020||Delhi||‘Only deaths where primary cause is Covid-19 listed’: Delhi govt||Delhi recorded 425 new cases of Covid-19 on Friday, taking the city’s tally to 8,895. And eight deaths were added to Delhi’s coronavirus disease (Covid-19) toll , taking the total number of deaths in the state to 123, although none of the deaths pertain to the past 24 hours. The health bulletin released on Friday stated that the cumulative deaths included only those “where the primary cause of death is found to be Covid-19”, as per report of the death audit committee on the basis of case sheets received from hospital.”The Delhi government ordered the formation of the death audit committee on April 20, which started working two days later. The committee goes through the case sheets, investigations, and death summary of the deceased before classifying it as a Covid-19 death.“The Death Audit Committee follows the guidelines prescribed by the ICMR. All hospitals have been mandated to submit their death summaries to the committee within 24 hours. Death Audit Committee is an independent body which examines each of these cases. Delhi Health Bulletin reflects the figures as declared by the Committee,” said a senior official from the CMO. The guidelines for recording deaths released by Indian Council of Medical Research last week states that Covid-19 has to be recorded as the underlying cause of death when a person dies of pneumonia, acute respiratory distress syndrome, cardiac injury, and clotting throughout the bloodstream that the viral infection is known to cause. In Covid-19 patients co-morbid conditions such as asthma, heart disease, diabetes or cancer can lead to severe disease but cannot be considered as the underlying cause of death, the guideline states.“ A person may have tested positive for the infection, but if their chest X-ray is clean, the arterial blood gas does not show any signs of acidosis, and their oxygen saturation is normal then clearly Covid-19 isn’t the cause of death,” said a senior official from Delhi’s health department who spoke on condition of anonymity.Dr Prashant Mathur, director of ICMR’s National Centre for Disease Informatics and Research (NCDIR), which formulated the guidelines, said, “If a patient is admitted to the hospital for Covi-19 and dies, their death would be considered as Covid-19 death.”“But these are just guidelines and it is ultimately the treating physician who has to use their clinical judgement to decide whether it was the infection that aggravated the other comorbid conditions leading to the death. The guidelines were more for awareness, especially about the new coding under the international classification of diseases that has now been added,” said Dr Mathur.The international classification of disease coding present in the 11-page document clearly states that deaths of those who test positive and do not have Covid-19 like symptoms should still be recorded as Covid-19 death. So should the deaths of those who have the symptoms but either test negative or in whose case the test is inconclusive.Delhi’s health minister said the growth rate of new infections is coming down“Do not go by numbers, go by percentage growth. Yesterday, it was around 5%. At one point it was as high as 20%,” said Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain. Of the 5,254 people still living with the infection in the city, 154 are in intensive care units and 26 are on ventilators. Delhi has about 306 ventilators in the government sector and 800 in the private sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/only-deaths-where-primary-cause-is-covid-19-listed-delhi/story-fmoiScJ2B8g2RNlINHoj6N.html
16-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi wants to restart life from Monday — with social distance||Markets, malls, public transport, including the Delhi Metro, and all offices should be allowed to open with reduced footfall and staggered operations, Delhi’s chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has said in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, even as states sent in their recommendations to the Union government on how the country should emerge from the current phase of the lockdown.The Centre is expected to announce over the weekend the contours of the fourth phase of the lockdown, which was first put in place on March 25 to slow the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. It may give states more say in what rules on restrictions should be in place beginning next week.“We want restrictions in containment zones to stay as they are, but most economic activities should now be allowed elsewhere. Social distancing and wearing masks should be made mandatory. We believe the relaxations will lead to a rise in Covid-19 infections, but we have prepared for it by making adequate arrangements for hospitals, ventilators, oxygen requirements, ambulances, ICUs, etc,” said Kejriwal.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic“We have followed centre’s rules entirely and will work with the Union government in the fight ahead,” the CM said in his closing remarks in Thursday’s letter, which accompanied a detailed set of recommendations.Among the key relaxations is the suggestion to allow public transport. Metro services should be allowed to resume but must allow only people working in government offices during morning and evening office hours, while essential services workers or those with movement passes from district authorities can only travel between 10.30am and 5.30pm, the letter suggested, proposing that the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation make arrangements to leave a seat vacant in between.Auto-rickshaws, buses, cabs (including aggregators such as Ola and Uber), can operate but with reduced capacities. For auto- and cycle-rickshaws, only one passenger will be allowed. Taxis and cabs can seat two in addition to the driver. Buses should carry not more than 20 people, the recommendations said.Also Read: Concerns over infant mortality as Covid hits immunisation drivesMovement of people should be prohibited (unless for essential service) between 9pm and 5am, the Delhi government suggested, and added that parks and playgrounds should be allowed to open with no contact sport being permitted.At present, people are allowed to go out only between 7am and 7pm, unless they are going to a grocery store or a chemist – which are included in essential activities.For offices, the CM suggested that those who can work from home should continue doing so but offices can reopen with 50% staff. All employees must wear masks, and mandatorily download the Aarogya Setu mobile application. The Delhi government has so far not issued any advisory on the app, which has been criticised for possibly being a risk to people’s privacy.Also Read: Govt officials propose more power to states in fight against Covid-19“All markets and market complexes shall remain open on odd-even basis, that is, shops would open on alternate days depending on their shop number… However, shops selling essential goods, books and stationery shops and fans shops are permitted to open on all days,” the letter added.According to an official who asked not to be named, the complete relaxation for shops selling fans will also cover those selling air-conditioners and air coolers, since the city – as the rest of the country – is now heading into peak summer months.For malls, the number of shops allowed to open on any day must not exceed 33%, the proposal said, putting the onus on mall managements to enforce the protocol.School, salons, spas, barber shops, cinema halls, hotels and dine-in services at restaurants and cafes should continue to be prohibited, it said.On some of the recommendations, such as reviving Delhi’s public transport in a way that ensures social distancing during commute, the government has already started drafting standard operating procedures (SOP), said Delhi’s revenue and transport minister Kailash Gahlot.The letter was sent to the Prime Minister after Kejriwal met Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal for a thorough discussion on Thursday evening. Baijal had directed the government to start preparing SOPs starting with three areas – transport, reopening of markets and malls, and construction and industrial activities, said a senior official privy to the developments of the meeting. During what was his fourth address to the nation since the Covid-19 crisis began, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday night that the new phase of the lockdown — lockdown 4.0 — would assume new contours and be based on new rules. “States are giving us their inputs and advice. Based on that, all details about lockdown will be provided before May 18.” He said that he had complete faith that while abiding by rules, the country would both battle the disease and move forward.The need to reopen has become increasingly acute as economic indicators reflect a complete erosion of earnings. Several market associations have begun discussions to strategise how they will reopen and ensure social distancing, a practice of keeping at least a 2 metre distance between individuals.“Once the market opens, we have decided to keep only two entry points for customers, where there will be hand sanitisers and temperature screening. We will also put up boards saying only those who want to buy should enter the market zone. Social distancing will be of utmost importance. Those accompanying them can wait outside. It is crucial for markets to open now. People have suffered massive losses,” said Ashok Randhawa, president of the Sarojini Nagar mini-market traders association.Also Read: Need to wait on resuming air travel: Niti Aayog memberThe Lajpat Nagar traders’ association too has held meetings and decided to enforce new rules for what is one of the largest and most crowded markets in the capital. “We will put up an SOP at the shops. No one will be allowed without being checked by thermal scanner. Also in shops that measure less than 100 sq m, we will not allow more than two customers at one time,” said Ashwani Marwah, general secretary of the association.Health experts said reopening markets is important and necessary but the responsibility to ensure that Covid-19 does not spread falls on shoppers as well as shopkeepers.Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at the Safdarjung Hospital, said all shoppers must wear masks before going to the market. “People have to behave responsibly. If one has a sore throat, fever or any type of symptoms, they must avoid going to the market. People must change their lifestyle. They must visit the markets only if it is absolutely necessary. Contrary to what many believe, markets are low-risk areas like an OPD in a hospital.”A senior police official, asking not to be named, said the Delhi Police is also likely to book fewer people over social distancing violations from May 18 in case the government decides on scaling down restrictions. This is because enforcing social distancing is likely to take up a disproportionate amount of resources, this person added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-wants-to-restart-life-from-monday-with-social-distance/story-NpgljgjVcMHvGg4XDociUI.html
16-05-2020||Gurugram||55-year-old man killed in accident in Gurugram’s sector 33||A 55-year-old man was killed after he was allegedly hit by a car while crossing a road in Sector 33 on Thursday evening. After hitting the man, the car allegedly collided with a bus stop. The police said that the driver sustained injuries and is currently being treated at a hospital.According to the police, the victim was identified as Sudesh Kumar, a resident of Islampur village, Sector 38. He used to work as a farmer. The incident took place on Thursday around 6.30pm when he went for a walk near Unitech society, Sector 33.In the police complaint, a man who witnessed the accident, said, “A Maruti Suzuki Swift car being driven at a high speed from the direction of Hero Honda Chowk hit a man walking on the road. The car then collided with a bus stop. The man who was hit died at the spot. The car driver was also injured and was taken to a hospital.” He added that the car’s registration number belonged to Haryana.A police officer privy to the investigation said, “When we reached the spot, we saw that the car was completely destroyed. The victim had sustained fatal injuries on the head. We took the statement of a witness and filed a case against the driver who is being treated at a hospital. He is yet to be arrested.”A case was registered against the driver under sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way) and 304A (death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Sadar police station on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/55-year-old-man-killed-in-accident/story-wCbWmZdxGRZlsKKk9nUG9M.html
16-05-2020||City||Police identify contract killers who gunned down Ludhiana shop owner||Two days after a 29-year-old shop owner, Girish Manocha, was gunned down at his house, police have identified the two contract killers hired by his uncle Rajinder Manocha for the crime. The cops, however, are not revealing the killers’ names at this stage.One of the contract killers reportedly lives with an orchestra dancer following a dispute with his wife. The other contractor killer is a history-sheeter, say police.The two men had come on a motorcycle and knocked on the Manochas’ door on late Wednesday night. The victim’s father Joginderpal had answered the door. As soon as he opened the door, the two men opened fire. While one bullet hit Jnginderpal in the neck, Girish, who was right behind his father, was hit in the back. He succumbed on the way to the hospital.Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, North) Gurbinder Singh said only Girish and his father had seen the assailants. As Girish is already dead, their hopes are pinned on Joginderpal, who still said to be in a critical state.The ACP added that the police are yet to investigate how the rivalry between the families started and how much money was involved in the dispute. Rajinder Manocha has already been booked by the police and a hunt is on for his arrest. According to the police, Munish Manocha, the brother of the victim, is a proclaimed offender in a cheque bounce case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-identify-contract-killers-who-gunned-down-ludhiana-shop-owner/story-S7HKC1Pw5bov2rLuWc0E1N.html
16-05-2020||Gurugram||Inability to pay rent, no assurance of work forces migrants to leave||The inability to pay rent and no assurance of work are the primary reasons migrant workers are leaving for their home states. A majority of the migrant labourers working in industries and other allied sectors, who stay in the city’s urban villages and unauthorised colonies are under pressure to pay rent and electricity bills or vacate the premises. In some instances, landlords are seeking interest on the delay in payment of rent, which ranges from ₹2,000 to ₹4,000 for a single room, city-based trade union leaders said.Of the 4 to 5 lakh construction workers in the city, around 70% have already left for home and the remaining are also looking for ways to leave, the trade union leaders said. The pressure to pay rent is such that migrant workers are slipping out of villages in the dead of the night to evade their landlords, some have shifted to their relatives’ houses and others have locked the rooms and simply left without their luggage. “I am a widow and am raising two children by myself. I don’t have a source of income since the lockdown has begun. I was not able to pay the rent of ₹2,200 to my landlord in Vishnu Garden and so was forced to shift with my sister,” Lakshmi Devi, who hails from Pilibhit in Uttar Pradesh, said.The company where Devi and many others like her worked paid their salary for the seven to eight days she worked in March. After that, she has been jobless and now depends on her relatives for survival. While Devi has a family to take care of her, Mushtaq Alam and his friends, who stayed in a large room in Nathupur village, had to leave it early Friday after their landowner refused to defer the rent. His relatives in Bihar, who were touch with trade union leaders in the city, also got worried when the group did not respond to repeated phone calls and messages. “Most of the migrant workers are worried and their relatives are also calling us for help. With no work, the labourers are bound to go home,” Rajender Saroha, joint secretary, Bhawan Nirman Kamgaar Union, said.Another group of workers from Dundahera, who left for their village in western UP, said that nine of them stayed in a single room paying ₹1,000 per head. “Living locked inside a room had become difficult. Our financial condition became precarious so we chose to leave,” Nayeem, a tailor, who worked in Udyog Vihar, said.Most migrant labourers are feeling desperate. Yogesh Ram, a rickshaw-puller started his journey with two relatives on a rickshaw and had reached Agra by 4pm on Friday. “We left on Thursday morning as there was no money to pay the rent. It will take us six to seven days to reach Agra,” he said, adding that people along the route were helping them with food and water and the police were not troubling them.The mass migration of workers, the trade union leaders said, is continuing because there are inadequate housing facilities for labour and they are getting little help from authorities and industries. “The consequences of this mass migration are going to be very negative on the economy as the workers are unlikely to return before they feel safe again,” he said. A district administration spokesman said that the authorities were focussing on ensuring adequate food and essential material to migrants who continue to stay in the city. “We are also taking all steps to ensure that those who want to return are provided all kinds of help and those who want to leave face no problems in reaching their home states,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/inability-to-pay-rent-no-assurance-of-work-forces-migrants-to-leave/story-PAPrPPDYoQHZhoFNy8819J.html
16-05-2020||Gurugram||14 new Covid-19 containment zones in Gurugram city||The number of containment zones in the district has increased to 37 from 32 on Friday with new additions in Gurugram block. The district administration added 14 areas in Gurugram block to the revised list of containment zones, while nine zones in the district were de-notified after no Covid-19 cases were reported from there in the last 28 days.Of the four blocks – Gurugram, Pataudi, Sohna, and Farrukhnagar – Pataudi no longer has a single containment zone. While Farrukhnagar is yet to report a case of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), only three areas in Sohna have been sealed to halt the coronavirus spread leaving Gurugram city with 34 of the 37 containment zones in the district now.The newly added containment zones in Gurugram city are— DLF Phase 2 (L block), DLF Phase 3 (Hermitage Housing Society), Basai village, Basai Enclave part 1, Bhawani Enclave, Khandsa (lane adjacent Shyam Public School), Nathupur village (Om Prakash lane), Kherki Dhaula village, Bajghera village, Baliawas, Jamalpur, and Sheetla Colony. Devi Lal Colony, which was earlier removed from the list, has again been added to the list again. Lanes adjacent to Chhoti Mata temple in Sector 12 and Santra Devi School in Sector 105 have also been categorised as containment zones.According to the health department officials, at least one Covid-19 case has been reported in the last week from each of these new areas. As per the district health bulletin, most of the persons recently infected with SARS-CoV-2 (the virus that causes Covid-19) were people working in small factories, security guards, and domestic helpers who reside in high population density areas. Most of them had contracted the virus after coming in contact with a Covid-19 patient.The other areas in Gurugram block still classified as containment zones— Jharsa village (Sector 39), Sirhaul ( lanes 1, 7and 6B), Tyagiwada, Meghdoot Apartments in Sector 10A, Om Nagar, Sector 12 (Prem Nagar, Lotus Hospital, Rajiv Nagar), Dundahera (Police Station Road, Community Centre), Ardee City society (blocks A, B, C) and Chandan Vihar.Areas such as Ashok Vihar, Godrej Frontier Society (Tower K), Islampur village, Kadipur Enclave (Lane 4), Surat Nagar Phase 2 ( Lane 23), Khandsa mandi, Anand Garden (lane 2), Ashok Garden (Lane 3), Lal Nursing Home, Kharbanda Hospital (backside), Krishna Nagar (lane 2), Jyoti Park (lanes 7, 9) Baldev Nagar (lane 14) and Krishna Colony (lane 9) are also still containment zones.In Sohna block, areas such as— Shiv Kund, Bhagwat Wada, and Thakur Wada—are still cordoned off.DE-NOTIFIED AREASFazilpur in Jharsa villages is the only area to be de-notified in Gurugram block among the nine areas removed from the list of containment zones by the district administration on Friday. Area de-notified as containment zones in Sohna block include – Gehlot Vihar, Javed Colony, Pahar Colony, Nut Colony, ITI Colony, and Raipur village. In Pataudi, ward 11 and 14 have been removed from the revised list.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/14-new-containment-zones-in-gurugram-city/story-N9ME0ZR7tfVnH1B5mxRpoJ.html
16-05-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: 54 officials of MCG tested for coronavirus||At least 54 officials of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) were tested for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Friday.All the 54 officials who were tested belong to MCG’s Zone 3. MCG joint commissioner Hariom Attri said demands were made by officials, especially those working in the containment zones and involved in food distribution to migrant workers and other essential services, to get them tested for the infection. Attri said the officials felt they might have been negligent with wearing masks and gloves on a few occasions while being on duty and, therefore, requested for a test. “Many of our workers felt that they initially did not take the implications of Covid-19 too seriously and did not practice adequate safety measures. In addition, a large number of workers were deployed in the containment zones involved in food distribution and other essential services, who felt the need to get themselves tested as a precautionary measure. Hence, we have extended the option to all our workers to get themselves tested for Covid-19,” said Attri, adding that he too got himself tested for the virus along with many other staff members in MCG’s Zone 3 office in Sector 42. Those working in the MCG’s central store, where all protective equipment and items related to the pandemic are stored, were also tested, along with those engaged in containment zones and distribution of food.Officials said that the MCG has made it optional for all its workers to get themselves tested for the virus across all its four zones, with the testing process commencing with MCG’s Zone 3 on Friday. Ashish Singla, chief medical officer(CMO), MCG, further said that all sanitation workers working in containment zones and its buffer zones would also be tested for the virus, with one batch of 50 sanitation workers each to be tested on alternate days.“Sanitation workers have been working in close proximity to areas where coronavirus cases have been confirmed. As a precautionary measure, we want to ensure all the workers are tested and can subsequently continue to work in containment zones and other areas of the city with adequate safety equipment,” said Singla.Around 1,500 sanitation workers are estimated to be working in the city’s 35 containment zones and buffers zones, said Singla.Singla said that a batch of 50 sanitation workers was tested for coronavirus on Thursday at the MCG’s Sector 39 office from where its health branch operates, with the next batch of 50 workers scheduled to be tested on Saturday. He said the test results of the workers will take around 48 hours to process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/54-officials-of-mcg-tested-for-covid-19/story-9LpPlxW86YjT4fXgA6jy7H.html
16-05-2020||Noida||UP Roadways conducts viability study to decide taxi, bus service fare from IGI airport||The Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) is conducting a viability study on fare structure of buses and taxis in different districts in order to finalise the price structure of chartered bus and taxi services proposed to ferry commuters from Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport to Noida, Ghaziabad and other districts.Raj Shekhar, UPSRTC managing director, said that the committee has not submitted its report yet. “The committee is conducting a detailed study and most likely will submit a report on Saturday. Different districts have different fare structures and Noida and Ghaziabad’s fare will be different from Lucknow and Moradabad. The committee is also conducting region-wise study to finalise the fare structure from Delhi airport to Noida, Ghaziabad and other districts,” he said.The UPSRTC has over 10,000 buses and some taxis in different districts. “We are also studying about the demand and supply from the airport. If the passengers are few, then it will be difficult for UP Roadways to run buses and taxis to distant places,” he said. The corporation is also getting feedbacks and suggestions from private taxi and bus operators for the proposed service. “Their suggestions will be incorporated in finalization of the fare structure,” Shekhar said.The UP roadways is also exploring the option of empowering local district administration to engage private taxi operators as per local demand. Shekhar said that the taxis of the UP roadways are reserved for protocol services. “The Central government may announce a lockdown extension and issue some guidelines soon. We will finalise our move accordingly,” he said.The UPSRTC had faced criticism after it issued a letter on May 9 to the corporation’s regional managers in Noida and Ghaziabad, informing them that they will facilitate travel of residents — brought back from foreign countries under the Vande Bharat Mission — from Delhi airport to Noida and Ghaziabad and other nearby areas and charge Rs 10,000 for taxi for up to 250km radius, and Rs 1,000 per seat in a bus for commuting 100km. People in Noida and Ghaziabad had criticized the move as the two district share boundary with Delhi. On Thursday, the corporation formed a three-member committee to review the order and submit recommendations to revise the fare structure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/up-roadways-conducts-viability-study-to-decide-taxi-bus-service-fare-from-igi-airport/story-9XvxI2SLtTxahfjfnCI0HL.html
16-05-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram health department forms committee to audit Covid-19 deaths||The Gurugram administration has constituted a Covid-19 Death Audit Committee (CDAC) to review deaths arising from the coronavirus disease. Several states have such committees, which follow the Indian Council of Medical Research’s guidelines on recording Covid-19 deaths. In Gurugram, as per government records no Covid-19 death has been reported.Deaths have, however, been reported in a few private hospitals of the city where Covid-19 patients from different states were admitted. Health officials say these deaths have been reported in the respective states to which thje deceased belonged. As these patients were undergoing treatment in Gurugram when they succumbed to the disease, the audit committee will review these cases.“Following the state government’s guidelines, we will analyse sequence of events leading to death, conditions antecedent to the immediate cause of the death, onset of the disease, the treatment protocol followed among others. It will help us to understand the treatment requirement and plan management strategies,” said Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, chief medical officer, who will be the chairperson of the district committee.The other members of the committee will be a member of the rapid response team, a general physician or a respiratory medicine specialist, a microbiologist or pathologist, the district immunization officer and a representative of the deputy commissioner. It will also include representative of the World Health Organisation (WHO) and the Indian Medical Association (IMA) . According to an order of the Haryana government released on Wednesday, each district in the state will have to form such a committee. In Haryana, 13 Covid-19 deaths have reported, with Faridabad having the highest number deaths, five. Three deaths have been reported in Panipat, two in Ambala, one each in Rohtak, Sonepat and Karnal.The team will study all the reports, records, and case sheets of the deceased .Punia said it will be writing to all private hospitals where Covid-19 patients from Haryana or other states underwent treatment. The committee will have to submit the report within 72 hours of death.In Gurugram, earlier this week two Covid-19 deaths were reported in Civil hospital, sector 10. The health department, however, said the deceased were from Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal were included in the lists maintained by those states.The death of a resident of Delhi’s Kapashera in Civil Hospital, has been included in the Delhi list, the department added. A senior stats government official said that Haryana has included in its Covid-19 death toll, cases where the deaths are due to a comorbidity. ” Following the government protocol, Covid-19 deaths are counted in a district or state where the patient originally contracted the virus. Many times, patients from other districts and states are referred to big private hospitals and medical colleges.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/health-department-forms-covid-19-death-audit-committee/story-nGETrKf9y1xBjciRcyjYwO.html
16-05-2020||Noida||Greater Noida: 20 jawans discharged from hospital in 14 days||Twenty personnel from different paramilitary forces who were infected with the coronavirus while onduty were discharged from the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) referral hospital at Lakhnawali camp in Greater Noida on Friday, 14 days after they were admitted.Surjeet Singh Deswal, the director general of Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) in his address to the discharged soldiers -- 17 from the ITBP and three from the Border Security Force (BSF), said that the soldiers proved that they can win in every field, either war at the borders or the invisible virus. “I hope that you will now spread the message that one should always be alert and fit against the enemies, be it visible on the border or invisible in form of a deadly virus like Covid-19. And, don’t forget to keep them at two-yards’ distance,” he said. Hailing the efforts by doctors and other staff of the hospital, the ITBP chief further said that they had done a remarkable job. “They are the real heroes who have been working selflessly to save others’ lives. And, that too putting their own lives into risk. It is really commendable that the hospital has developed its resources to its optimum level for the best treatment of the Covid-19 positive CAPF personnel among all 32 CAPF hospitals in India,” he said.On the other 163 Covid-19 positive patients at the hospital, Deswal said that they were all asymptomatic. “After the mandatory quarantine period, they all will come out of the hospital, with the same zeal and vigour they had before being admitted here. The hospital is the biggest and first-of-its-kind in the CAPFs and it has state-of-the-art equipment and treatment facilities for the patients,” he said.He later met the team of doctors, led by IG (medical) Dr Dinesh Chandra Dimri and thanked them for their services and support. Earlier, outlining the features of this hospital, Additional DG (Medical) Dr Mukesh Saxena said that the hospital has a modern pathology lab, radiology department, operation theatre including different specialised. “This hospital has best medical facilities in the lines of super specialty Hospitals for the CAPF personnel. senior specialist doctors of the CAPFs serve here. Facility of telemedicine is also available from here. For the Covid-19 patients, we have introduced robotic trays, which deliver foods and medicines to them at in their respective units,” he said. Designated as Covid-19 hospital for different para military forces, including Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), Border Security Force (BSF), Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), Seema Sashatra Bal (SSB), Assam Rifles and National Security Guards (NSG), this 200-bedded hospital had 183 patients. This hospital was built in 2018, at a cost of Rs 121 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/g-noida-20-jawans-discharged-from-hospital-in-14-days/story-2fiFRgdwooSSTi4kPPeV8I.html
16-05-2020||Kolkata||Migrant nurses leaving Bengal for safety; private hospitals face manpower shortage||Triggering a staff shortage at private hospitals in West Bengal where the Covid-19 pandemic is spiking, nurses from other states are leaving for home, citing risk of getting infected. Of the 68 hospitals dedicated to treatment of Covid-19 patients in West Bengal, 52 are private institutions. Two doctors, including a senior state health department official, have died of the disease in the state so far, while more than 160 doctors, nurses and hospital staff have been infected. As many as 185 nurses from Manipur alone left for home during the weekend, HT found from official documents. Hundreds more from Tripura, Odisha and Kerala are also preparing to leave.HT accessed a document issued by the Manipur government on May 9, which include transit clearance for 185 nurses and 132 other Manipur citizens and travel permits for 31 buses and cars all of which are registered in West Bengal. The vehicles travelled through Assam and Nagaland. The documents were signed by Rehanuddin Choudhury, joint secretary (home), Manipur.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicManipur chief minister Nongthombam Biren Singh has said all Manipuris would be brought home. His government has arranged for trains and buses to carry patients, labourers and students.Right now only a small number of non-Covid patients are admitted at hospitals and non-emergency procedures have been kept on hold. The scenario will drastically change once the lockdown is over, the authorities said.WATCH| ‘Bengal needs 105 shramik trains a day’: Piyush Goyal slams Mamata govt“Of the 600 nurses at our south Kolkata superspecialty hospital, more than 60 per cent, ie 360 nurses, are from other states. 70 of them from Manipur have already left. This is a serious situation,” said Dr Alok Roy, chairman of Medica, a group that has eight other hospitals, five of which are in Jharkhand, Odisha, Bihar and Assam. At AMRI Hospitals - a well-known chain engaged in treating Covid-19 patients – at least 60 per cent of the 900 nurses at its three units in Kolkata hail from the North-East, Odisha, Kerala and Karnataka. Some from the North-East have already left while others have told the management that they will leave once the lockdown is over. Bengal’s first Covid-19 death took place at AMRI’s Salt Lake unit. The health department functionary also died here.“Many nurses from Manipur have left. We are counselling nurses from Tripura and Odisha, asking them not to leave. We have asked our human resource departments to go on an aggressive recruitment drive in Kerala and Karnataka,” said Rupak Barua, CEO, AMRI Hospitals and chairman of the healthcare sub-committee of Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), east zone. “Since the pandemic has had very little effect in the North-East, nurses from the region probably feel it is safer to be at home,” Barua added.Also Read: Kolkata: Buses and taxis likely to hit the roads; maintaining social distancing could be a challengeTill Thursday, Tripura recorded only 154 cases and no deaths while Manipur had only three cases and no deaths. In comparison, Bengal registered 2377 cases and 151 deaths.“Some nurses claimed that hospitals in their states have offered to pay Rs 1000 a day in addition to reimbursement of daily expenses. This should be a great offer as they will be paid more while getting to live with their families,” said an official at a private hospital in Kolkata. “While a few nurses from Tripura resigned, most simply left without saying a word,” he added.“Shortage of nursing staff is a perennial problem in Bengal because there are not many training colleges. We hire people from the North-East, Odisha and Kerala. In recent years, Karnataka has been added to the list, as many training colleges have come up there,” said Barua. On an average, no less than 60 per cent of the nurses employed at big private hospitals in Bengal come from other states.Since state government hospitals employ local residents only and absorb the bulk of the students graduating from nursing schools, private hospitals employ migrants in large numbers.Apollo hospital said it did not face this situation till Thursday. “We have one thousand nurses and a sizeable chunk are from other states. However, only four nurses from Manipur have so far left,” said a spokesperson. Apollo’s East Zone CEO, Rana Dasgupta added that the hospital was “not facing any problem so far.” The authorities at some private hospitals in Kolkata said that some nurses from Kerala - a large chunk of this migrant workforce- were also planning to leave, but Medica group chairman Alok Roy felt this may not happen, because nurses from Kerala had experienced more of the disease across the country, and were not likely to panic. There is no centralised data on the number of migrant nurses working at private hospitals and clinics in Kolkata and rest of Bengal. “There must be thousands of them and the figures keep fluctuating, as deployment depends on demand and supply. The nurses are taken on a 2-3 year contract,” said Dr Koushik Chaki, secretary, West Bengal Doctors’ Forum, a prominent body of physicians.Dr Chaki said that frontline warriors were not getting personal protection equipment (PPE) in adequate quantity either. On Monday, the forum wrote its second letter in four days to chief secretary Rajiva Sinha, highlighting this issue. On May 5, the 400-bed multi-specialty Peerless Hospital in south Kolkata shut down operations after a number of doctors, nurses, staff members and attendants contracted Covid-19 while treating patients. In April, Chernock Hospital in the eastern fringes of Kolkata had to be shut down for the same reason. Both hospitals employ migrant nurses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/migrant-nurses-leaving-bengal-for-safety-private-hospitals-face-manpower-shortage/story-htJzRdHYup8IP713ZOObAM.html
16-05-2020||Noida||GB Nagar records its fourth Covid-related death; four more cases reported||Gautam Budh Nagar district reported its fourth death related to coronavirus disease (Covid-19). A 71-year-old man from Sector 150 died of multiple-organ failure at Delhi’s Lok Nayak Hospital.According to the officials, the deceased was suffering from cancer and paralysis. He was undergoing chemotherapy treatment for cancer and other illnesses. He was found to be positive for Covid-19 infection on Monday, after which he continued to receive treatment in Delhi only.On Thursday night, the health officials of the district were informed about the death of the 71-year-old man. Officials have informed that the person died of multiple-organ failure at the Delhi hospital. The deceased is a resident of GB Nagar. As such, his death will be counted in the district. The total number of Covid-19 deaths has reached four in the district. Four new cases of Covid-19 were also reported on Friday. The total number of cases has reached 242 in the district. The patients include a 78-year-old woman from Sector 12 in Noida. Officials informed that the woman contracted infection from some of the early patients in the area. Two men, aged 22 and 41, from JJ Colony of Sector 5 in Noida were also found to be positive for the infection. Till now, 7 persons have been found to be positive for the infection from Sector 5. Officials are suspecting that the patients from Sector 5 may be a part of the Ceasefire trail and may be a direct or an indirect contacts of four people, including the domestic help of an employee of the fire safety solutions company, who were found to be positive earlier.A 21-year-old man from Nagla village of Phase-2 in Noida was also found infected but his source of infection is yet to be identified.By Friday night, the health department collected a total of 4,613 samples. Currently, there are 69 active Covid-19 cases in the district. Around 442 persons are under institutional quarantine while 169 patients have been discharged after completing the treatment successfully. On Friday, officials received 169 reports, out of which four were found to be positive.On May 8, a 60-year-old man from Sector 22 in Noida had also died after he developed pneumonia at Government Institute of Medical Sciences(GIMS) during the wee hours.On May 8, a 62-year-old man from Sector 66 had died. He was under institutional quarantine at the Galgotias hostel, which has been functioning as a government quarantine centre. The person was declared dead on arrival at the GIMS.On May 12, a 60-year-old man from Sector 19 had also died. He was admitted, along with his wife, after the duo was found to be positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gb-nagar-records-its-fourth-covid-related-death-four-more-cases-reported/story-cQvWI3FfDaXetWYlzSaQRO.html
16-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi Jal Board prepares to up water output in its summer plan||The Delhi Jal Board (DJB) on Friday launched its action plan for the year to meet the water demand of around 20 million residents of the city over the summer, especially at a time when the need to wash hands frequently has been exacerbated by the Covid-19 pandemic.In a statement released on Friday, DJB vice-chairperson Raghav Chadha sought to assure residents of the Capital that the state government would ensure there was no shortage of water in the city.The board has set a target of producing 925 million gallons per day (mgd) of water this summer. On an average, the DJB produces 900mgd water, with demand peaking at 1,100mg in summer months. “With the entire world under lockdown, the coronavirus pandemic has underlined the importance of water in public health and further strengthened our commitment to ensure access to potable clean drinking water and sanitation for all...DJB will work towards maintaining the water treatment plants, increasing the water supply in water-deficient areas, improving efficiency and faster disposal of complaints this summer,” Chadha said in the statement. He also said water bodies would be rejuvenated to help recharge groundwater systems and help combat shortages. “A total of 155 existing water bodies will be rejuvenated. Tenders for 59 have been announced, out of which work for 22 has already been awarded,” the statement said.Additionally, new lakes are being created at Dwarka, Timarpur, Rohini, Nilothi, Pappan Kalan and Satpula, it said. The DJB vice-chairman also listed several initiatives being taken to ensure enough water supply during this period, including the completion of four underground reservoirs (UGRs), at west Kamal Vihar, Sonia Vihar, Mundka and Mahipalpur, to cater to the west and central Delhi areas. Besides, 1,077 water tankers have been deployed at 87,308 locations in areas such as unauthorised colonies and slum clusters, which do not have piped connections. Further, 254 tube-wells, 117 Water ATMs and e-piaos (water kiosks) have been installed in water-deficient areas. “A total of 17 water testing laboratories, including eight zonal labs, have been upgraded to ensure adequate surveillance of potable water quality to ensure that it meets prescribed drinking water standards as per the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS),” the DJB statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/as-part-of-djb-s-summer-plan-1k-water-rankers-upping-water-production/story-R3cEBilEe3PJLeqZvPtGsJ.html
16-05-2020||Delhi||Quarantined Delhi woman doctor returns home to neighbour’s abuse||A 27-year-old woman doctor on Covid-19 duty, who contracted the virus while treating patients at a government hospital in north Delhi, was allegedly humiliated, intimidated and sexual harassed by her neighbour, who even locked her in her south Delhi flat in Vasant Kunj, when she returned home from an isolation facility on Wednesday.On Thursday, a case of wrongful restraint and sexual harassment under sections 342 and 509 of the Indian Penal Code was registered against the neighbour at the Vasant Kunj South police station on the doctor’s complaint, said deputy commissioner of police (southwest) Devender Arya.“We have started the probe into the case and it’s in the preliminary stage. The neighbour will be asked to join the investigation. Further action will be taken accordingly,” said a senior police officer who asked not to be named. The doctor could not be reached her comment and repeated calls and text messages to her cellphone numbers went unanswered.Since a sexual harassment charge is included in the case, the doctor’s name and other details that can reveal her identity have been withheld by the police.The doctor said in her complaint that after being discharged from the isolation centre, she returned home on Wednesday. Around 4.30pm, her neighbour on the ground floor came to her the first floor flat and began screaming and hurling abuses at her, saying she was Covid-19 positive and could not stay there.“...even after explaining to him that I have two confirmed negative test reports and have been satisfactorily discharged from the isolation centre, he did not stop screaming at me,” the doctoradded in the complaint.The doctor alleged that when she asked him to talk to the president of the residents’ welfare association (RWA), the neighbour latched her door from outside and shouted, “I will see how you step out and will make sure you leave this place. Call whoever you want to.”The RWA president said the doctor informed her about the matter and she in turn alerted the Vasant Kunj South’s station house officer (SHO), who sent a beat officer.The neighbour said he has apologised to the doctor and the police for his “aggressive behaviour”. He claimed that he was unaware that the doctor had been on Covid-19 duty and objected only because she had returned home after just a week in quarantine.“The doctor was shifted to the quarantine facility on May 6. I was surprised when she returned on May 13 because as per my knowledge, a Covid patient is quarantined for at least 14 days. I was concerned for my wife and children’s safety, so I protested. Later, I realised my mistake and apologised to her,” he said over phone.The RWA president, however, said the neighbour was aware of what was happening. A WhatsApp group was created to post updates from the day the doctor tested positive for the virus, the president added. She said that after the doctor tested positive, authorities recommended a home quarantine as is usually done in the case of mild cases.“But we knew that many residents would object to that. So the authorities were requested to shift her to an isolation facility. The doctor also willingly shifted herself there. But neighbours humiliating her and not allowing her to live in her own house even after she has recovered from the disease is not justified,” the RWA president said.On April 22, in the backdrop of persistent attacks on health care workers in the front line of the battle against Covid-19, the Centre approved an ordinance to make such attacks a cognisable and non-bailable offence, expedite the investigation; imprison those convicted by up to seven years; and impose stringent penalties on vandalism and damage to property.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/woman-doctor-released-from-quarantine-returns-home-to-abuse-sexual-harassment-from-neighbour/story-VLhAsI5f4BPMGiUCDmRfRN.html
16-05-2020||Delhi||From selfie sticks to thermal scanner headgear: Delhi Police try to keep Covid-19 away||A magnifying glass attached to a selfie stick that can help read documents from a safe distance to a headgear that can scan the temperatures of multiple people from 10 metres way, Delhi Police are using innovative ways to keep its personnel from contracting Covid-19, the viral disease that has killed one policeman and infected at least 110 others in the Capital. The police are also using hands-free water taps, foot-operated soap dispensers and automatic temperature scanners -- some of which are being sourced from private firms while some others being put together by the police personnel themselves. The police force has been playing a critical part in enforcing the national lockdown norms, manning entries in containment zones, helping transport people and general patients and also maintaining law and order, which leaves them vulnerable to contracting coronavirus infection. Last month, the Chandni Mahal police station had to be sealed after eight police personnel deployed there had tested positive. Later, nine personnel from the Sultanpuri police station in outer Delhi too had tested positive. The virus has spared officers of no rank: On Tuesday, an IPS officer and his two staffers had tested positive. Senior police officers said while some of these devices are already being employed by the personnel deployed on the ground, trials continue on some others. The idea is to minimise contact while performing our duties and staying safe, the officer said. SELFIE STICKThe first of these improvisions is a selfie stick that has been turned into a “document-checking equipment”. “We fixed a magnifying glass at the end of the stick so that the policemen at pickets can read documents presented by motorists without having to approach the person or touch the documents. We attached an LED light to make it handy even at nights,” said Atul Kumar Thakur, deputy commissioner of police (South). The improvisation was made by Rahul Gupta, a probationary Indian Police Service officer and an alumni of IIT Delhi. After top police officers inspected the operation of the device, about 50 such equipments were readied and distributed to other police districts, the South DCP said. SCANNER HEADGEARIn West Delhi, the police partnered with a private firm to prepare a headgear, similar to a helmet, on which a thermal scanner has been fitted which, the police officers claim, can measure the temperatures of multiple people at a time.“This device can scan the temperatures from as far as 10 metres, negating the need for the police to approach the public. We have conducted a trial run at a picket in Rajouri Garden. If successful, it can be deployed at supermarkets, mandis and hospitals,” said Deepak Purohit, DCP (West).Sagar Naugriya, the founder of Indian Robotics Solutions, which has developed the headgear, said it could scan the temperatures of multiple people at once. “If 10 people are captured in the frame of the headgear, it can scan the temperature of each person. It takes about four seconds to test each person’s temperature. The live images can be shared or sent to a centralised control centre,” said Naugriya.EXPERTS NOT IMPRESSEDJugal Kishore, director and professor of community medicine at Safdarajang Hospital, said the accuracy of the data provided by the headgear should be put to stringent tests before pressing it in service. He said the headgear will also factor in the temperature of the local environment and the readings has to be precise. “Similar devices used at hospitals haven’t been really effective,” Kishore said.Prashant Pillai, co-founder of the robotic firm, agreed with the doctor. He said that considering this factor, the mean temperature of a group of people being scanned will be taken first. “If there is deviation of say more than one degree Fahrenheit in any person in that group, apart from those who already have higher temperatures than the body temperature, they’ll be referred for a secondary examination.“The temperature that our device captures is the elevated body temperature, which is the temperature of the skin. Whereas, doctors test the body temperature. So, a secondary test will be required for those with a high variation from the mean temperature,” said Pillai. The South district police too are working on an unmanned, static thermal scanner to be installed at police stations. “It will record and store the temperatures of every personnel and visitor arriving at the police stations. It should be ready and in service in a day or two,” DCP Thakur said. TOUCH-FREE SOAP, WATERThe police in Sangam Vihar sub-division have devised a simple system by which anyone visiting the police station can use their feet to press a spring below a water tank to turn on the tap, and then a similar spring on another side to dispense liquid soap.“This device works on the hydraulic principle to release water and soap without having to use hands,” said Sudhans Dhama, assistant commissioner of police (Sangam Vihar). Dhama, who devised this system, is an electronic engineering graduate from BITS-Pilani. In many police stations, the police have also installed standalone hands-free soap dispensers that can be operated by foot .Doctor Kishore found these “non-touch techniques” more useful. “Such techniques must be developed more and used more widely,” he said. Across districts, the police are already extensively using drones to keep a watch on neighbourhoods from a safe distance. Some have gone a step ahead to improvise these drones. The Central and South police districts, for example, carry out live announcements using the drone, to the extent of singling out individuals based on the colour of their dresses..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/from-selfie-sticks-to-thermal-scanner-headgear-delhi-police-try-to-keep-covid-away/story-CMSmIO5fxh5BsXY0thehZO.html
16-05-2020||Noida||Unemployment forces low income groups to switch to selling essential items||With many losing jobs amid the ongoing lockdown, those in lower income groups are switching professions and taking up delivery of essential items.Even though state governments have given certain relaxations in lockdown norms since May 3 so that industries and construction activities can resume work, lower income groups continue to struggle to find work.“I used to work as a rickshaw puller while my wife worked at a construction site. When the lockdown started, someone told us that this coronavirus crisis will not end soon. So with the last of our money we bought vegetables and fruits from the Sector 88 market. I used my rickshaw to ferry the goods and we sold the produce on the roadside in Sector 75,” Manoj, who hails from Jharkhand, said.The family feels that their decision to switch to essential service delivery was a good one. “Many of our neighbours used to work at construction sites and are struggling to survive. Their contractors have also not helped them out. We at least have enough to feed ourselves and our three children,” Manoj said.District officials say small roadside businesses, rickshaw pullers and other daily wage earners are the worst affected by the economic crisis brought about by the lockdown.“Earlier my three children used to help out at our tea stall in Sector 18. But our shop has been closed for almost two months now. We began to run out of money and had to borrow ration from people we knew in Sector 27. But last week, one of my sons got a job at a department store in Atta. He is earning ₹200 per day and that is helpful to us. We don’t think that we will be able to go back to running our shop so my husband has also started looking for work,” Sarita, who lives with her family in Atta area, said.The Noida authority had also roped in vendors to supply vegetables, fruits and groceries to containment zones. With reduced pedestrian movement, some of the existing vendors have also had to change their routine.“Till last month, we used to have our fruit and vegetables stall near where we live in Sorkha village. But now, in order to sell more products, we walk an additional one or two kilometres to either Sector 74 or 76 where there are high-rises and thus more customers. Whatever is left, we sell that in Sorkha,” another vegetable vendor, who did not wish to be named, said.Even sectors and high-rises had roped in more vendors in March itself so that residents don’t venture out.“When the lockdown started, there was hardly any vegetable vendor coming to our area. Now we have more than 10-15 fruit and vegetable sellers coming in daily. Most of them are from the nearby Hoshiyarpur village. There were earlier employed as mechanics, etc. There was a man who owned a small tent business. He has now set up two tables, covered it with a tent and started selling fruits,” Sanjeev Kumar, president, Sector 51 residents welfare association, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/unemployment-forces-low-income-groups-to-switch-to-selling-essential-items/story-YE0tzIZ5QjWKLuNBoNvFMN.html
16-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi metro restart plan does away with tokens, alternate seats to be empty||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) is in the process of finalising protocols for passenger movement at its stations and inside its trains. The protocols are being drawn up with focus on social distancing — essential to contain the spread of Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) — once the Centre gives its nod for public transport to operate in the fourth phase of the lockdown, which will begin Monday.Among other norms, the new rules being drawn up will likely include complete cashless transactions at ticketing counters, earmarking designated spots for passengers to stand while waiting for trains or at ticketing counters, use of face masks and Aarogya Setu mobile application and separate entry and exit points to the station premises, said an official.These measures, which are under consideration and yet to be finalised, are based on guidelines provided by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs (HUA) to all metro corporations in the country for drafting standard operating procedures (SOPs).Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicOnce metro operations resume, a senior official said Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) plans to do away with the token system and all transactions at ticketing counter will be completely cashless. “Chances of the spread of the infection increases while using tokens,” added the official.The Delhi Metro has already started putting markers on station floors and platforms to earmark space for passengers while waiting at stations or counters. It has also put up stickers on seats inside the trains, with alternate seats having to be left vacant.“DMRC is taking up the necessary cleaning inside the trains and indoor areas of stations such as entrance lobbies, corridors, staircases, escalators, elevators, and the security area. Other necessary logistical arrangements, such as provision of hand sanitisation/thermal screening at stations and installation of social distancing related signages are also being put in place,” said Anuj Dayal, executive director, DMRC.Also Read: Delhi wants to restart life from Monday — with social distanceThe Central Road Research Institute (CRRI) recently drafted guidelines, which were shared with all state governments and transport agencies, for public transport to operate while ensuring social distancing norms. Mukti Advani, principal scientist, transport planning at CSIR-CRRI, said, “Online ticketing system should be encouraged and at least 80% of tickets should be booked online. It is good the Delhi Metro is earmarking spots on platforms. Efforts have to be made to ensure there is no crowding outside the stations. We had also recommended that passengers sit on alternate seats.”The number of passengers travelling per train will drop sharply due to measures proposed to ensure social distancing. Currently, close to 1,800 people travel on a six-coach train. With passengers allowed to sit on alternate seats, the passenger-carrying capacity of the trains is likely to drop to 300-500, said the Delhi Metro official.Dayal said, “The decision to resume Metro rail services in Delhi-NCR will be taken by the government, after which the detailed protocol will be shared with the public.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/metro-restart-plan-does-away-with-tokens-alternate-seats-to-be-empty/story-dj7wI0JfF142Ra2pV22qEO.html
16-05-2020||City||Ludhiana DC pays tribute to freedom fighter Sukhdev||A state-level function was organised at district administrative complex in Ludhiana to mark the birth anniversary of freedom fighter Sukhdev Thapar. Deputy commissioner (DC) Pradeep Kumar Agrawal was the chief guest. He called upon the youth to eradicate social evils such as corruption, drug abuse, female foeticide and illiteracy from the society, which he said would be the “real tribute to the country’s martyrs”.He said that such functions are organised to promote national integration and instil patriotism among the people. Earlier, the DC, along with other dignitaries, paid floral tributes to the martyr.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/function-organised-in-ludhiana-to-mark-birth-anniversary-of-sukhdev/story-6TpCif7SN3sfHslJ2iGMQP.html
16-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi to await Centre guidelines before taking call on liquor stores, home deliveries||The Delhi excise department will take a call on allowing private liquor shops to open, and provisions for its home delivery only after the central government issues fresh guidelines on restrictions and relaxations from May 18, senior government officials said on Friday. On the same day, the Delhi high court refused an interim stay on the 70% ‘Special Corona Fee’ charged on liquor in the city, but asked the state government for a response on a bunch of pleas challenging the imposition of the cess.The Delhi government had notified the special cess on May 4, imposing the tax on the MRP of any brand of liquor sold in the city.The high court had, on Thursday, asked the Delhi government to decide on the online sale and home delivery of liquor by May 15 (Friday). The government assured the court that it would decide the same by the date mandated.Liquor stores in many parts of the country, including Delhi, witnessed unruly crowds and serpentine queues, soon after lockdown curbs were relaxed on May 4. “The department has decided to wait for clear guidelines from the Centre on allowing private liquor shops to open and home delivery,” a senior government official said on Friday. “These guidelines are expected to be announced in a day or two,” the official said.Alcohol sales account for 14.1% of Delhi’s total revenue projections for 2020-21.Currently, the ministry of home affairs guidelines applicable for the lockdown period till May 17 limits e-commerce transactions to essentials (which does not include liquor) in red zones (all 11 revenue districts in the Capital).The Supreme Court, however, had advised states last week to look into the possibility of online sale and delivery of liquor. So far, several states have started such an initiative, including Punjab, Chhattisgarh and West Bengal. The Delhi government introduced e-tokens for customers, to cut down on the long queues.In Delhi, the excise department met thrice on the issue last week, one including finance minister Manish Sisodia. The government had also approached a private technology outsourcing company seeking help to develop a weblink and a mobile application but later put the plan on hold, a senior government official.The government has drafted a standard operating procedure on home delivery of liquor but it awaits approval of senior officials. Corona fee One of the petitions in the high court, filed by advocate Lalit Valecha, said the ‘special corona fee’ imposed by the Delhi government upon the sale of liquor is in excess of what has been authorised by law and accordingly it is being collected arbitrarily.Two other pleas called the cess a violation of the Constitution. The court said it will now hear the matter on May 29.Delhi has 864 liquor shops but only around 10% of them have been functional for the last 12 days, collectively recording sales of around ₹ 9.33 crore per day, excise department records showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-to-await-centre-guidelines-before-taking-call-on-liquor-stores-home-deliveries/story-NF4611vehkQwjQlCieYIBI.html
16-05-2020||City||Good news as Chandigarh tricity area reports 39 Covid-19 recoveries||Friday was a red-letter day for the tricity in these times of gloom and doom with 39 patients recovering from Covid-19, the highest number since the first case was reported on March 18.In a tragic development, however, a 35-year-old Bapu Dham resident suspected of having contracted the virus after he complained of breathlessness died while being admitted to the Government Multi-Specialty Hospital in Sector 16, Chandigarh. He was screened while waiting to board a bus for Uttarakhand at the Sector 17 ISBT.His samples have been taken and reports are awaited. Mohali led the tricity in reporting the highest recoveries at 35, followed by Chandigarh with three and Panchkula with one even as the sister cities did not report a single positive case.With this, the tricity’s recovery rate climbed to an encouraging 48% with 154 persons cured out of 321 infected as against the country’s average recovery rate at 34% till date. So far, six deaths, three each from Chandigarh and Mohali have been recorded.ALL MOHALI CASES DISCHARGED FROM GIAN SAGAR HOSPITALMohali’s 35 patients were released from Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur, which discharged 60 patients in all on Friday. Under the new revised discharge guidelines issued by the Punjab health department, all asymptomatic patients are sent home after 10 days of admission in a Covid care facility. They will be home-quarantined for seven days and be monitored regularly by health department teamsWith 95 recoveries from 105 positive cases, the district now has a recovery rate of 91% and only seven active cases.Dr Manjit Singh, civil surgeon, Mohali, said the hospital, which admitted patients from three districts, including Mohali, Fatehgarh Sahib and Rupnagar, discharged eight other patients from Fathehgarh Sahib and 17 from Rupnagar.Dr SPS Goraya, medical superintendent of the hospital said, “Since March 25, today was the day when we discharged the highest number of Covid-19 patients. We are happy that they have recovered. Our frontline doctors and medical staff ensured that the patients were kept in good humour.”CHANDIGARH RECOVERY COUNT NOW 40With three patients discharged from Chandigarh’s Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research the city’s recovery count went up to 40 out of 191 confirmed patients and the recovery rate to 20.9%. No fresh case was recorded for the second consecutive day.A 79-year-old woman from Sector 38, the oldest so far in the city, a nine-year-old girl from Sector 30 and a 67-year-old man from Sector 15 were among the cases. The man, however, was referred to another department for treatment of other ailments.In Panchkula, with the discharge of one more person on Friday, the recovery rate in the district went up to 76%, taking recoveries to 19 out of 25 cases in the district. However, two fresh cases were also reported on Friday.With inputs from Chandigarh and Panchkula||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/good-news-as-tricity-reports-39-covid-19-recoveries-mohali-leads-with-35/story-lfVKJUmmwmH0YJBB6UkimJ.html
16-05-2020||Delhi||HC seeks Centre, Delhi govt response over mismatch in number of PPE kits, masks||The Delhi High Court on Friday directed the Centre and the Delhi government to clear their stand on the mismatch in the number of PPE kits, N-95 masks, gloves received, after the Delhi government told the court that there was a discrepancy in numbers provided by the Centre.A bench of Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad directed both the Centre and state governments to clarify their position by filing separate affidavits within five days and posted the matter for further hearing on June 1.“ In view of the fact that there appears a mis-match in the inventory of the PPE kits, N-95 masks, gloves etc. between what the Union of India claims in its affidavit, have been supplied to the GNCTD, which the latter states it has not received to the said extent, it is deemed appropriate to direct both the departments to clarify the position by filing separate affidavits within five days, “ the court order said. The court’s direction came after the Delhi government’s additional standing counsel Gautam Narayan told the bench that the information provided by the government of India about the number of PPE kits and N-95 masks does not match with the log book of the department of health, government of NCT.On the last date, additional solicitor general, Maninder Kaur Acharya, appearing for the Centre, had informed the court that 3,79,429 N-95 masks and 1,16,890 PPE kits had been given to the Delhi government . Acharya’s remarks had come during hearing of a plea which contended that the sanitation workers in the city are not well-equipped withPPE kits and other things, like masks and gloves to save them from being infected by Covid-19A senior Delhi government official said that the concerned department will file its response in court.The plea by social worker Harnam Singh had also sought direction to the authorities to carry out testing of all sanitation workers and their immediate families for Covid-19.Appearing for the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, its standing counsel, Akhil Mittal, submitted a status report detailing that the north corporation is neither aware of any information about the receipt of any masks and PPE kits by the Delhi government from the Centre nor has it received any N-95 masks or PPE kits from the city government specifically for the use of its sanitation workers till date. He submitted that North MCD is arranging protection material required to work during the pandemic by paying for its themselves or by arranging it from several NGOs. The bench granted time to other respondents to file their response by the next date of hearing while noting that only the Delhi government and the North DMC had filed their reply. The Union ministry of health and family welfare had not commented on the issue till late Friday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hc-seeks-response-from-centre-state-govt-on-mismatch-in-number-of-ppe-kits-masks/story-H4vwzW8PhBePjFVgxmRDnN.html
16-05-2020||City||Brick-kiln worker rapes six-year-old girl in Ludhiana, held||A brick-kiln worker lured the six-year-old daughter of his co-worker on the pretext of getting her candies and raped her at Katani Kalan village on Thursday evening.When the mother of the girl reached the spot of crime, the accused fled leaving the girl unconscious. The victim was rushed to the Samrala civil hospital, where her condition is stated to be serious.The accused, identified as Sonu Kumar, 24, of Katani Kalan village, has been arrested and a case lodged against him on the statement of the victim’s mother.In her complaint, the woman stated, “I, along with my family, work at a brick-kiln and live on the kiln premises. On Thursday evening, my husband had gone out to buy grocery and I was preparing dinner for the family.”“Meanwhile, my son told me that Sonu Kumar had taken our six-year-old towards an isolated place. I, along with my son, started searching for her. When we went to the backside of the brick-kiln, we saw the accused raping her. When I raised an alarm, the accused tried to escape. However, the other workers nabbed him and informed the police. The girl, who was unconscious, was rushed to the hospital.”Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Sukhdev Singh, who is investigating the case, said the accused has been arrested under Sections of 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.The ASI added the accused was produced before a court on Friday and sent him to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/brick-kiln-worker-rapes-six-year-old-girl-in-ludhiana-held/story-IwI2bfq6OQqU1sKMksflWN.html
16-05-2020||Patna||Nitish pitches for zone-wise testing for migrants as cases cross 1,000||After issuing directives for ramping up testing in view of lakhs of migrant workers returning home, Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar Thursday directed officials to work out a zone-wise strategy to ensure optimal and targeted utilisation of the existing limited resources.In the last one week, Bihar has added 60-65 patients on an average everyday. From 556 Covid-19 positive cases on May 8, the number has touched 1,000 May 15 morning, adding 444 new cases in just seven days. The doubling period of positive cases in the state has come down to just 8.5 days, while it is 12.5 nationwide, though officials say it is due to sudden inflow of migrants and increased testing.As per statistics released by Sanjay Kumar, principal secretary (health) on Friday, three states, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Delhi, accounted for 282 of the 358 migrants testing positive between May 4 and 15, which comes to 79% of the total. “The data in the third phase of lockdown shows that roughly around 7% of the returning migrants tested after reaching Bihar turned out to be positive, as most of them are coming from red zones. This is the fear Bihar always had. The CM has categorically stated that testing should be increased and facilities developed across all districts to track positive cases early for isolation and treatment to prevent spread,” said an official.However, with barely around 2,000 samples getting tested in Bihar everyday, the situation is far from satisfactory. During a review meeting with top officials, Kumar said the number of migrants would only increase in the coming days and therefore it was important to focus on those coming from vulnerable pockets and red zone areas, as per a press statement issued by the Bihar government late Thursday evening.“There should be some zone-wise strategy for testing as well as putting them under quarantine, as people are coming from different zones, where the situation is different,” he said.Bulk of the migrants reaching Bihar are from worst-affected Maharashtra, Gujarat, Delhi, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, while there are others spread across various other states, including Kerala, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh etc.With another three-lakh migrants estimated to reach Bihar by special trains in the next one week, Kumar said testing facility must be started in all the districts without delay. Earlier, Kumar had said that the random testing In the state would not be enough anymore and the testing capacity must be increased to 10,000 per day.The Bihar government has already announced that 15 TrueNat machines would be installed at 13 district hospitals in the state, while 25 more are in pipeline. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had on April 10 validated the usage of TrueNat, a diagnostic machine for testing test drug-resistant tuberculosis, for Covid-19 tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/nitish-pitches-for-zone-wise-testing-for-migrants-as-cases-cross-1-000/story-JvkYQSBwN5DfCOwvUKLGXI.html
16-05-2020||Pune||Industries in Pune now short-staffed, but expects worse post-monsoon||With a large number of migrant labourers leaving Pune for their home, industries and shops that are on the verge of re-opening their businesses are facing some tough questions. However, a section of business-owners believe they’ll be able to pull off without the labourers since only 33 per cent staff are allowed due to the restrictions.The real challenge for industries will begin after the monsoon, believes J P Shroff, labour welfare committee chairman at Confederation of Real Estate Developers Associations of India (Credai) said.“Basically, the real estate will not feel so much of the pinch for starting pre-monsoon works which need minimum labour and during monsoon, the work slows down but there is a definite slowdown in the speed of work by 10 to 15 per cent. The real problem will start post-monsoon if the labour doesn’t come back, hence Credai members have taken special care to see that the labourers are enticed to come back by providing advances, return tickets and guarantee of work,” Shroff said.But according to Credai, the developers will also have a gestation period of 15 days to make their site functional and up to mark to meet the new Covid-19 norms.“Migratory labour generally go back home during May and June, to do their regular routine things. Once that is done, they start coming back from July to August. Normally, 30 to 40 per cent migratory labour go back but this year, there is a rise with 50 to 60 per cent going back, which leads to a shortage of 20 per cent of the labour,” Shroff said.After the government of Maharashtra notification, some companies in the Ranjangaon area in rural Pune opened up with 33 per cent staff. On Friday, the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation gave a nod to open businesses in the area.According to the confederation of Indian industry (CII), the companies are currently managing operations due to a lesser load and demand, which is not letting labour shortage being felt immediately.“However, as things improve and factories and establishments begin in full swing, labour shortages shall be felt and shall be a deterrent towards scaling up, if the situation of migration and shortage persists, said Alakesh Roy, chairman, CII Pune zonal council and managing director Zamil steel buildings India.According to Roy, the current shortages if any are being taken care of, but the fact that not all industries have started and labourers are moving across sectors for jobs and livelihood is a sign of worry.CII Pune has been working with all members and non-members, to raise matters with governments at the district, state and national level for an effective resolution.“Social distancing norms were always followed by the very aspect of ergonomics, while at work. Special attention towards social distancing is now being ensured while during breaks for food and rest time and education is being provided to all employees. The transportation of employees is also being done at a reduced capacity of vehicles and other modes of transport. The companies are also avoiding overlapping shifts as of now to prevent crowding during shift switches,” Roy said.Meanwhile, the Mahratta chamber of commerce, industries and agriculture (MCCIA) is trying to work as a bridge between the industry and local administration in solving the soon to hit labour shortage, according to Prashant Girbane, director-general, MCCIA. “Many migrant labourers have now travelled back home out of state and also within the state. There are also constraints on movements within the district and city given the level of the lockdown being implemented by the local authorities. While the reasons are understandable, it is posing many problems for industries that are already facing the brunt of the economic downturn. On one hand, we advise our colleagues in the industry to implement stricter health and safety measures, on the other, we request city administration to release labour movement constraints outside containment zones,” Girbane said. Deepak Garg, vice-chairman, CII Pune zonal council and managing director at Sany group believes labour shortage won’t have a big impact at present as only 33 per cent manpower is allowed. “Companies who have employed from Maharashtra and specifically Pune, the impact will be lesser. Post lockdown 3.0, some of the labour who has moved to their native places within Maharashtra has been returning back to Pune with appropriate approvals from government authorities. The Maharashtra government is currently allowing employees to return back to their work city by their private vehicles. For companies employing labour from northern states, they will face issues. But this is also a good opportunity to provide employment for locals,” Garg said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/industries-stare-at-labour-shortage-real-crisis-post-monsoon/story-XScLbc8JzKzzFij879fpnO.html
16-05-2020||Pune||Industry asked to follow Covid-19 SOPs as PCMC allows factories to open with 33% workforce||After the government allowed industries in the rural parts of Pune to reopen, the Maharashtra government has now allowed Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporation to let companies resume operations with 33 per cent work force.This was welcomed by representatives of more than 700 medium and small scale enterprises (MSMEs) who participated in an online session organised by Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA) on Friday with Shravan Hardikar, the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal commissioner and officials from the state Industries department.There are more than 4,000 small and medium scale industries in the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) and non-MIDC areas of Bhosari, Chinchwad and Pimpri, which provide employment to more than 5-6 lakh people.Hardikar briefed the gathering on the general guidelines for the companies which have been created using the Industries Best Practices, orders and notifications from the Central and State Government, World Health Organisation (WHO) and other organisations and guidance documents shared by industry associations.He appealed to the industries to adopt these guidelines and help Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation in safeguarding the employees, families and the residents of from the current Covid-19 pandemic.The municipal commissioner stressed on training the workforce on hand hygeine, social distancing and use of face masks.“It is recommended to use thermal scanners and carry out thermal scanning of everyone entering the premises. No person should be allowed to enter the premises without wearing the face covers. Use of touch-gesture based bio-metric attendance (thumbprint/ keypad) is prohibited,” he said.The commissioner advised the industry to use the Aarogya Setu mobile application and the PCMC Smart Sarathi Mobile Application to get in touch with the civic body for their needs and permissions. Specific guidelines for manufacturing/ production and the shop floor areas have advised that most of the units have to follow day shifts or a night shift when meant that the members would remain within the premises from 7 am to 7 pm.The companies would have to provide work-site mobility and transportation and create rules for any work that required workers to work with a two metre distance as well follow protocol and use sanitizers and disinfectant while sharing tools and equipment.He said every workstation and equipment should be disinfected before the start of the shift. Companies have been advised to introduce staggered lunch breaks.Pradeep Bhargava, president, MCCIA said, “ We are thankful to the government of Maharashtra and the local administration for considering our request to restart industries in PCMC. Given the number of employees (especially seniors) of PCMC-based companies who live in Pune and nearby regions, we have made requests to allow them (as long as they do not come from containment zones) to travel to their respective companies in their own vehicles, following all safety norms.14,000 applicantsSadashiv Survase, Joint Director, Industries said so far 14,000 applications for reopening of the companies have been received on the digital platform, permission.midcindia.org and only 1800 are pending for approvals. The companies have a self-declared permission which is granted only after they undertake the 23 SOPs (standard operating procedures) of Covid-19. The issue that the companies are now facing in PCMC is that of vehicle passes as only employees or staff can move using a dedicated mini bus or a bus besides private closed car.No two wheelers are allowed No decision on allowing employees from Pune to travel as yet. There were many concerns about allowing employees to travel from Pune but those are yet to be decided, the officials said. Pimpri-Chinchwad municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar said only those employees coming from the PCMC areas would be allowed at the moment. The Maharashtra government, on May 2, allowed industries in rural parts of Pune to reopen, with companies in the MIDC areas of Ranjangaon, Chakan and Kurkumbh making special arrangements for transporting their employees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/industry-asked-to-follow-covid-19-sops-as-pcmc-allows-factories-to-open-with-33-workforce/story-dlunV35RvTum29EuugTTbI.html
16-05-2020||Pune||37 cybercrime cases registered in Pune region during lockdown period||The Maharashtra State Cyber Department has lodged 366 cases against individuals for circulating fake news related to Covid-19 (coronavirus) on social media platforms like Instagram, Facebook and Twitter during the lockdown period. As many as 198 persons have also been arrested in connection with cybercrime, according to officials of the department.Out of 366 cases in the state, 37 cases were lodged in Pune region. This includes four cases in Pune city, 29 cases in Pune rural area and four cases in Pimpri-Chinchwad.SP cyber Balsingh Rajput said that the residents are cautioned to check the forwards twice before they post it in Whatsapp groups and other social media platforms.“We have also issued instructions to all the cyber cells of different police units to keep a close eye on the objectionable material being posted and takedown notices have been issued to all the concerned platforms of social media and removal process is in progress,” he said.According to the cyber department, as many as 155 cases have been lodged in connection with forwarding objectionable messages on various WhatsApp groups, 143 cases related to objectionable Facebook posts and 16 cases for making Tick Tock messages. Six cases have been lodged regarding objectionable tweets and four cases related to Instagram posts. As many as 42 cases have been registered for uploading objectionable material on youtube.The cyber department in its advisory has said that residents are requested not to indulge in violations of restrictions imposed by the administration and the police and help the government in enforcing the lockdown. It is informed that any violations will be dealt with firmly as per the law including the apprehension of the offenders and appropriate action under the preventive sections of the law will be taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/37-cybercrime-cases-registered-in-pune-region-during-lockdown-period/story-3aw80FX4bUSOBSKzrGsn7M.html
16-05-2020||Pune||Mhada complex turned into Covid-19 hospital ready for patients||A 1,408-bed temporary hospital at Mahalunge is ready to admit and treat patients affected with Sars-cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 (coronavirus) infection.The facility has been set up at the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (Mhada) complex which consists of eight buildings and has at least 160 flats in each. The facility is one of the largest in the city and was set up in 45 days.The facility on Pune’s outskirts will cater to the admission of suspects and patients from Khed, Mulshi and Maval talukas.Bharat Shendage, additional chief executive officer (CEO), Pune ZP, said, “Currently, we have ten doctors who will be dedicated for the treatment of the patients and as the need develops we will have more doctors. We also have a lab technician for swab collection, nurses and paramedical staff to take care of the patients.”He added, “The building was in a ready to move in position and was lying vacant for years. We had to clean the premises, move debris and also set up beds, bring in ambulances and also arrange oxygen cylinders for those who would need artificial oxygen.”Aayush Prasad, Pune ZP CEO, said, “It is a first of its kind project not just by the sheer size, but also by the fact that a residential complex has been turned into a Covid-19 hospital. The largest Covid-19 isolation facility at Balewadi sports complex which has a capacity of 10,000 beds and is yet to start operating. So currently this is the largest centre in the city.”The facility has dedicated one building to house suspected patients who could be quarantined until the test results come out. If the person is positive then he will be transferred to the positive section.The facility is a Dedicated Covid Care Center (DCCC) which will treat patients who have mild or moderate symptoms of Covid-19. In case any patient needs additional treatment then the patients could be shifted to the nearby Symbiosis hospital at Lavale and another Covid-19 hospital at Pashan.With rising patients even in the rural areas of the district, the administration is now setting up facilities at the rural areas to isolate patients who otherwise would have to be shifted to the city area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mhada-complex-turned-into-covid-19-hospital-ready-for-patients/story-FrLzAoZP61B8n2cRt8p39L.html
16-05-2020||Pune||Pune reports five more Covid-19 deaths, death toll touches 174||The city reported five deaths due to Covid-19 (coronavirus) on Friday, taking the count in Pune city to 174. In addition, 106 fresh cases were reported within 24 hours taking the total cases to 3,093 in the city. The number of critical patients rose from 70 as of May 9 to 132 on Friday (May 15), nearly doubling up in a week’s time. At least 144 patients were discharged after being declared completely cured, taking the count to 1,630.The number of critical patients has been on a rise since May 9 with more patients needing oxygen support. Of the 132 critical patients, 33 were on ventilator as of Friday, and 99 serious patients on oxygen therapy.The five deceased are all senior citizens above 60 years of age, except a 39-year-old male residing at Ghorpadi peth who was reported dead at YCM hospital. The person was admitted on May 12 at the hospital and declared dead on May 15 at 12:45 am. The person was suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) infection, sepsis with septic shock and diabetes. The other four deaths include two from YCM hospital, a 60-year-old female from Kamrajnagar, Yerawada, who was declared dead on May 15 and suffered from bilateral pneumonia with ARDS and hypertension and another 80-year-old male from Laxminagar, Yerawada who was suffering from acute kidney injury with coagulopathy (bleeding disorder) and bronchial asthma.A 75-year-old female residing at Nagpure chawl, Yerawada was reported dead from Sassoon General hospital. The person was admitted at May 2 and declared dead on May 15. She was suffering from myocarditis, acute kidney injury, hypertension and diabetes.A 64-year-old male was reported dead from Noble hospital residing at Phursungi, Hadapsar, and was admitted on May 5 and declared dead on May 15. The person also suffered from diabetes and hypertension.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-reports-five-more-deaths-count-touches-174/story-LsYYJ9M11syXd6YvR7iUKK.html
16-05-2020||City||17 cops sent into isolation as samples of 2 dead bodies found Covid-19 positive||As many as 17 personnel, including high-ranking police officials, in Ludhiana were sent into isolation after two bodies recovered in crime cases were found positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19).While one of the bodies was that of a 15-year-old boy who was allegedly murdered, the other was of an unidentified person, believed to be a migrant in his 40s. According to the additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP) Sachin Gupta, the nodal officer for Covid-19, as many as 17 personnel, including deputy commissioner of police (DCP, crime) Simratpal Singh Dhindsa, ADCP (crime) Harish Dyama, ADCP-III Gurpreet Kaur Purewal, ACP (civil lines) Jatinder Kumar Chopra, ACP (Crime-1) Mandeep Sandhu, Division Number 5 station house officer Richa Rani, six members of the staff of Division No 5 police station, two assistant sub-inspectors of Government Railway Police (GRP), and three members of the forensics division, have been asked to remain in self-isolation.Sources said that these personnel had remained near the body for nearly an hour for carrying out preliminary investigations.FAMILY OF MURDER VICTIM RUSHED TO ISOLATIONSoon after the test results came, the police swung into action and sealed the street in Janak Puri where the murder victim, Karan Kumar, 15, lived. His family members were also rushed to the hospital and health teams started his contact tracing.According to the family, Karan had left home on May 11 on the pretext of visiting the market but had not returned. The family tried to find him but failed to do so. The family members claimed that on Friday they learnt Karan was murdered and his body was in the mortuary.“Before we could come to terms with this tragic loss, the health department officials along with the police visited our house and took us to the hospital,” said Rajesh Chaudhary, the teen’s father.Karan’s body was found in the demolished quarters of railway colony number 5 on Wednesday. As per the prima facie investigation, Karan was assaulted and then strangled to death.The development comes a day after 18 RPF personnel tested positive for Covid-19.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said that the samples of all the persons will be sent for testing as per protocol.Dr Bagga said that beside the two dead, another person from Sahnewal, who was undergoing treatment at Jalandhar, has tested positive for the virus. He was rushed to a health facility in Ludhiana.Deputy commissioner (DC) Pradeep Kumar Agrawal said a total of 4,599 samples had been collected in the district, of which reports of 4,186 samples were negative and 146 positive.Meanwhile, 11 patients, including four students who had returned from Kota in Rajasthan and seven persons who had returned from Nanded, Maharashtra, were declared cured of Covid-19 after their two test results came out negative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/17-cops-sent-into-isolation-as-samples-of-2-dead-bodies-found-covid-19-positive/story-A2xUDSdKF8hOsH9N7C8ukI.html
16-05-2020||City||Ludhiana’s vet varsity is Punjab’s first university to reopen after lockdown||Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), Ludhiana, reopened on Friday with 33 percent staff strength. GADVASU is the first university in Punjab to be reopened after the lockdown, revealed AS Nanda, vice-chancellor of the University. Nanda said it was pertinent to open the university as it has to test many samples of the animals and important ongoing research was pending. The university’s specialised veterinary clinic had been treating 50-100 sick animals daily during the lockdown, said Nanda.We are following all Covid-19 guidelines, including social distancing, on the campus. The staff are allowed to enter the campus only from the earmarked entry point, and their thermal scanning is also being done before allowing them entry,” said AS Nanda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-s-vet-varsity-is-first-university-to-reopen-after-lockdown-in-punjab/story-y5KeTidYqbaHFv27bCJvpI.html
16-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chitkara University gets certification for excellence in online education||Chitkara University has been awarded the E-LEAD (E-Learning Excellence for Academic Digitisation) certification by QS IGAUGE for readiness and excellence in online education.QS IGAUGE is the Indian arm of global rankings and ratings agency, Quacquarelli Symonds.As many as 12 Indian institutes were chosen for the E-LEAD certification by the Union human resources development minister, Ramesh Pokhriyal, on Thursday. In an official release, Chitkara University said the certification was presented after a rigorous audit to recognise its initiative and readiness in catering to requirements of students, teachers and staff on virtual platforms.University vice-chancellor Dr Archana Mantri said, “We started recording lectures of our teachers a year back. Online education and digital learning can contribute to the university emerging as a technology-enabled campus with emphasis on quality, accessibility, inclusivity, and excellence.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chitkara-university-gets-certification-for-excellence-in-online-education/story-zmHXdjAma9eUhDAVcKnc4H.html
16-05-2020||Pune||Pune hospital conducts city’s first organ donation during lockdown||On Friday, May 15, Pune’s Ruby Hall Clinic, in liason with Sahyadri hospital, became the first hospitals in the city and the second in Maharashtra, to carry out an organ donation during the last two months of the lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic.With the lockdown, many hospitals had postponed or even cancelled surgeries. While recipients were unwilling to travel fearing transmission of the fatal infection, non-Covid patients were not admitted to hospitals and the number of donors had also gone down drastically.Aarti Gokhale, transplant coordinator of the Zonal Transplant Coordination Committee (ZTCC), Pune, confirmed that the organ donation was completed on May 15 at the hospital and that it was the first one in two months in the city.Dr Astrid Lobo Gajiwala, director of the regional organ and tissue transplant organisation (ROTTO), western region, said, “This would technically be the second organ donation after the lockdown was announced. On March 24 there was one transplant at Mumbai hospital. There were no organs transplanted in April and this is the first in May for the entire state.”Gokhale confirmed that this is the first for Pune since the official lockdown came into place on March 24.The hospital’s director (medical services), Dr Sanjay Pathare, said the liver was retrieved from a 49-year-old brain dead donor hailing from a village in Ahmednagar district.The patient had suffered severe head injury in a road accident on May 11 “Despite critical care management the brain damage could not be reversed and he was declared brain dead on May 14. The son expressed his willingness to donate the organ and we explained to him the complete organ donation process and assured wholehearted cooperation. The organ donation was completed on May 15 and the body handed over to the relative,” Dr. Pathare said.The organ wad retrieved at Ruby Hall and transferred to Sahyadri hospital’s Ahmednagar road branch, where a recipient was ready to receive the organ.Dr Sunil Rao, group medical director, Ruby Hall, said, ‘The recipient is a 62-year-old female suffering from liver disease.”Gokhale said since the lockdown, not a single organ transplant had been conducted in Maharashtra. Hospitals had cancelled surgeries. “While organ donation is an essential service it is not an emergency service. In normal conditions, on an average, about five-six organ donations take place a month in Maharashtra,” Gokhale said.The National Organ and Tissue Transplant Organisation (NOTTO) has guidelines to ensure that the transmission of the infection does not take place during the transplant process like checking the travel history, location of the recipient and also donor..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-hospital-conducts-maharashtra-s-first-organ-donation-during-lockdown/story-JNRs5zMZkqMLUKAejHHu3K.html
16-05-2020||City||At 41.2mm, Ludhiana records highest May rainfall in 23 years||A 41.2mm rainfall in a fortnight, Ludhiana broke its 23-year-old record of highest rainfall in May. In the last 50 years, the district had received over 40mm rainfall during May only on four occasions.KK Gill, professor of agricultural meteorology, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) said, the district received 70.1mm rainfall in 1977, followed by 75.8mm in 1986.After 11 years, Ludhiana recorded more than 100mm (100.2 mm) rainfall. Now after 23 years, it happened again and only within 15 days, the district recorded 41.2mm rainfall.She cited occurrence of more than normal events of western disturbances in the north-western regions for low temperatures and frequent rainfall this year.“The highest temperature recorded this month was 30 degrees Celsius, however, it started declining with the onset of western disturbances and the region experienced five rainfall events during the first fortnight itself. May recorded 66% above normal rainfall, which is 31mm,” said Gill.Below normal temperature had been witnessed since the beginning of the year and cold day conditions prevailed in the region since January.In January, which recorded 12.8mm above normal rainfall, the day temperatures were below normal by 2 degrees Celsius, while the minimum temperatures were above normal by 1 degree Celsius.February was near normal in respect of maximum temperatures but minimum temperatures were 0.6 degree Celsius above normal.“March generally witnesses transition of winter to summer conditions, however, the maximum temperatures remained below normal almost throughout the month this year. The average maximum temperature remained 2.2 degrees Celsius below normal as the month received 69mm rainfall, almost double of the normal 23.6mm,” said Gill.In April, no moderate to severe heat wave conditions prevailed as maximum temperatures remained 3 degrees Celsius below normal, said professor Gill.The weather is likely to be dry after May 15, she said, adding the condition is favourable for agricultural operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/at-41-2mm-ludhiana-records-highest-may-rainfall-in-23-years/story-kOurEqM12vU8BI22lkdIxM.html
16-05-2020||Pune||MIDC firms in Pune district face acute labour shortage||Small scale firms at Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) areas and industrial estates in Pune district are facing manpower crunch with stranded migrant labourers returning to hometowns and villages following the Covid-19 (coronavirus) spread. The owners of small-scale firms at Chakan MIDC, one of the most affected parts in Pune, now need labourers to resume their work. Mahadev Yejagar, owner of SM Laser Machine Craft company, said, “All our workers left for their native places after the lockdown was declared. Now that the government has issued relaxations to resume production, we do not have workforce to start our business. We need skilled manpower to work on heavy machineries and it would be very difficult to survive in such situations if there is no workforce.”Bappu Kale, manager, Sumaji Laser Pvt Ltd company said, “Finding skilled labour will be a big task once the lockdown opens and work resumes. Half of the workforce from Chakan MIDC has returned to their hometowns and villages due to the fear of coronavirus. The new workers who have approached us are demanding high payment.” Ramesh Rathod, vice-president of Gultekdi Industrial Estate area which is one of the oldest small scale industry units in Pune, said, “All the 40 units are shut down in our industrial estate. These units are surrounded by slums. Thirty per cent of workforce has left for their hometowns. Our request to the government is to allow us to start work with limited manpower and we will take necessary precautions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/midc-firms-face-acute-labour-shortage/story-LWTYHxeZqiXczqxSYm5zLM.html
16-05-2020||Pune||Shortage of blood in Pune hospitals needs to be addressed, say experts||A 34-year-old’s death at Sassoon General Hospital due to a shortage of type B blood has prompted two blood banks in the city to begin blood donation drives. The exercise will be carried out to meet the rising blood requirements across city hospitals. The Janakalyan blood bank and the Sassoon blood bank are now among those who have started blood donation drives to meet the shortfall in blood in blood banks.Atul Kulkarni, director of Jankalyan Blood Bank from Pune said, “We are now planning to start blood donation drives from this weekend as per the guidelines given by the state government. All the necessary safety precautions and social distancing will be kept during these drives.”A staff from Sassoon hospital said on the condition of anonymity that there is a shortage of B positive and B negative blood groups.“Barring this, we have storage of all other blood groups. We are therefore organising special blood donation camps, and trying to get as many blood donors as possible to address this shortage. The demand for these blood groups is more from non-Covid patients. We, therefore, appeal to the public to please come forward and donate blood to help the needy patients and save their lives,” he said.The HT team contacted Sassoon hospital’s dean Dr Murlidhar Tambe with repeated calls and messages for a response on the story but there was no revert. Over the last few days, blood donation camps have been organised inside Sassoon to increase the supply of blood groups in the blood bank. Pune-based philanthropist Shantilal Muttha, founder, Bharatiya Jain Sanghatana, had initiated a statewide blood donation drive through 11 mobile van clinics that conducted a statewide blood donation drive. Through this drive, the organisation collected a total of 4,148 blood packets until May 14 from across the state. “It is unfortunate that someone died due to not getting blood in time. This is the major issue we are going to face once the lockdown ends. Thousands of surgeries that are on hold will be performed and hospitals will require blood in large quantities. We have taken blood donation camps across the state but the problem of storage of blood has emerged,” Muttha said.According to Muttha, once the storage issues are addressed his organisation will begin blood-donation camps, once again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sassoon-kick-starts-blood-donation-drive-amid-shortages/story-jcY85SW6sDv6QxNEocrWpO.html
16-05-2020||Pune||Covid-19: Sharad Pawar seeks sops from PM for sugar industry in Maharashtra||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) supremo Sharad Pawar has sought Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s immediate intervention to bail out the sugar industry in Maharashtra from the crisis aggravated by the Covid-19 (coronavirus) pandemic and lockdown.Pawar has demanded that Minimum Support Price (MSP ) for sugarcane farmers ranging from Rs 3,450 to Rs 3,750 with grade-wise increment and provision of a one-time grant of Rs 650 per tonne on average cane crushed during the past two years.In a letter to Modi on May 14, the former Union agriculture minister has placed five demands before the prime minister.These include the provision of funds for clearing export incentives and buffer stock expenses which have been pending since 2018-2020; provision of a one-time grant of Rs 650 per tonne on average cane crushed during the last two years; conversion of outstanding capital into short-term loan and rescheduling of all terms of loans for ten years with a moratorium of two years on the lines of Mitra Committee recommendations.Pawar has also urged the PM to introduce a policy to treat all sugar distilleries as Strategic Business Units (SBU). On a standalone basis, banks should finance ethanol projects sanctioned under interest subvention capex scheme announced by the central government in 2018, he said in his letter.The senior NCP leader also shared his letter on twitter with a remark: “Raised concerns through letter to Hon. @PMOIndia and requested his urgent intervention to bail out #sugar industry from crisis aggravated exponentially by unprecedented nationwide lockdown in the wake of pandemic #COVID19.” (sic)He also enclosed a letter from the chairman of Maharashtra State Co-operative Sugar Factories Federation Ltd pointing out that the federation has also called for some immediate relief measures. The federation had previously pitched for treating sugar mills’ distilleries as strategic business units.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-sharad-pawar-seeks-sops-from-pm-for-sugar-industry-in-maharashtra/story-vGu5p1Pvzw6Huxr9kj2c6O.html
16-05-2020||City||Stay away from spurious seeds, use varieties developed by PAU, farmers told||Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) has urged farmers to not buy spurious seeds and recommended that they only buy the seed varieties developed by the varsity PAU.He cautioned farmers against falling for unrealistic yield claims.The advisory comes in the backdrop of an agriculture department raid at a seed store, situated opposite the university’s gate number 1, found selling spurious seeds. GS Mangat, principal rice breeder and head of department of plant breeding and genetics, PAU, Ludhiana, while urging farmers not to buy seeds from unauthenticated sources, asked them to only use genuine varieties of seeds developed by PAU. Giving details, he said that PR 128 and PR 129 give optimal yield when transplanted after June 20 and provide sufficient time for paddy straw management without burning.He said that PR 128 matures in about 111 days after transplanting, while PR 129 takes about 108 days to mature after transplanting.“This period is about three weeks shorter than the duration of PUSA 44 and at par with PR 121, PR 124 and PR 114. The new varieties have potential to replace long duration varieties and help conserve water, particularly in districts where the water table is continuously declining,” said Mangat.“Both varieties are resistant to all 10 prevalent path types of bacterial blight pathogen in Punjab. The average paddy yield of PR 128 is 30.5 quintals per acre, while that of PR 129 is 30 quintals per acre. Total (milled) rice recoveries and head rice recoveries of both the varieties have been found to be at par with the popular rice varieties. Both varieties meet the out-turn ratio of raw rice fixed at 67% by the central government and are distinct from PAU 201 variety of paddy,” added Mangat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/stay-away-from-spurious-seeds-use-varieties-developed-by-pau-farmers-told/story-6Nu4XxZxwmRyNdn8ttYqYO.html
16-05-2020||Delhi||DU might adopt open-book online exam mode from July 1||The Delhi University (DU) administration has decided to switch to the open book online examination mode from July 1 for final year students in case the Covid-19 pandemic doesn’t allow the university to hold exams via the conventional pen-and-paper mode by then. The decision has received flak from several teachers and students, who say that this cannot be an alternative to written exams in DU.In a notification issued on Thursday, Dean of Examination Vinay Gupta said that the examination for final-year students of all undergraduate and postgraduate courses, including those registered in the School of Learning (SoL) and the Non-Collegiate Women Education Board (NCWEB), will be held from July 1. “In case the situation doesn’t appear to be normal because of Covid-19 and to maintain social distancing, safety and health of the students become difficult, the University will adopt an alternative mode of examination i.e Open Book Examination (OBE) for final semester students of all undergraduate and postgraduate programmes and streams along with arrears previous semester/year. Students shall be allowed to attempt their examination from seating at home or any place as per the guidelines issued in this regard [sic],” the notification read.The exams will be conducted from July 1 in three sessions per day including Sunday, the notification added. The university will release a separate schedule for first- and second-year students of undergraduate courses and first-year students of postgraduate courses.In a detailed letter to all the principals of colleges and Deans of departments on Wednesday evening, the university’s examination branch asked them to set three question papers of each course based on the open book format and forward it to them by June 3. “Since it will be an open book examination, the question should be framed in a manner which would test the understanding and analytical skills of the students and there should be no minimum scope of verbatim copying from books and study material [sic],” the letter read.During the two-hour exam, the students will be given one extra hour to download the question paper, scan the answer sheets and upload them. The question paper will have six questions; students will be asked to attempt four in two hours.Both students and teachers are opposing the move. Rajesh Jha, a member of the DU’s executive council (EC), said that an online exam cannot be the alternative in a university like theirs. “By introducing the open-book format, things will get further complicated. Our students are already struggling to attend online classes due to logistical challenges. We can’t experiment with the future of our students. We should wait for things to get better and hold exams as usual, while taking all precautions,” he said.The Delhi University Students’ Union said it would suggest alternative measures as well after wider consultation with all stakeholders.Students said they were against online exams in any form. Unnimaya, the general secretary of the students’ union at Lady Shri Ram College for Women, said, “We at SFI-LSR surveyed 300 students of our college and 68% of them said they won’t be able to attend the exams if they were held online. Over 41% did not have access to a proper Internet connection and around 44% did not have access to laptops, computers or tablets.”The DU unit of the students’ group All India Students Association (AISA) on Tuesday issued a survey report, according to which 74% of students had responded against the online exams. A group of final-year students in the University has started an online petition on Thursday demanding the cancellation of their examination. “At a point in time when a lot of students do not have smartphones or laptops, we think that the online examination system shall be skewed in favour of those who have a room of their own, the privacy to write their examinations, and have continuous access to laptops/smartphones, electricity, and internet. We collectively believe that unprecedented times call for unprecedented measures and one such measure that we suggest vehemently is the cancellation of the exams for the final-year students,” the petition at change.org read.Sachin Maheshwari, Dean of Faculty of Technology, said, “If open books exams are being proposed, we are not prepared to conduct them. Such exams are only feasible if classroom teaching has taken place.”Teachers also raised concerns over the poor Internet connectivity in case of students living in remote areas. Pankaj Garg, an associate professor at Rajdhani College, said, “A number of our students come from interior villages. They do not have proper access to the Internet. The university should promote students based on their internal marks and last semester exams.”A member of the university’s task force constituted to combat Covid-19 said, “The administration will have to take some extraordinary measures in this extraordinary situation. We cannot wait for a long time because we will have to start the admission process in August. Also, the number of students in DU is higher than any other university in Delhi. We can’t let them come to the campus and risk their safety.” Calls and texts sent to Gupta and DU vice-chancellor Yogesh Tyagi went unanswered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/du-might-adopt-open-book-online-exam-mode-from-july-1/story-H6OXTk4ndGYkTOiqfAQcMJ.html
