17-05-2020||City||Mahant found murdered in Rupnagar||A 86-year-old Mahant was found murdered at his ashram situated on the Rupnagar-Nurpur Bedi road near here on Sunday.Police said Mahant Yogeshwar’s body was found when one of his disciples reached the dera in the morning. He found the door of Mahant’s room broken and his decomposed body lying on the floor.Kathgarh station house officer (SHO) Parminder Singh said prima facie, the Mahant seemed to have been murdered a week ago.The police sent the body of the deceased to the local civil hospital for postmortem and started investigations.The SHO said a case under Section 460 (trespass or house-breaking by night causing death or grievous hurt) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered against unidentified persons.Mahant Yogeshwar was staying in the dera for the past four decades, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mahant-found-murdered-in-rupnagar/story-3UVC9vkl4RQqBafLDxVcGJ.html
17-05-2020||Chandigarh||Rebel AAP MLAs question tweaked mining policy||Four rebel Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLAs, led by Kanwar Sandhu, have raised questions over the state government’s tweaked mining policy in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, alleging that the state was staring at huge losses. The other three legislators are Jagdev Singh Kamalu, Pirmal Singh Khalsa and Jagtar Singh Hissowal.“If the interim policy announced on May 12 for the next one month is any indication, the state is set to suffer a monetary loss of more than Rs 150 crore,” Sandhu claimed, adding that the government must clarify to the people as to how much money had accrued to the state from mining since June 2019, when the auctions were done. He claimed that under this, 196 quarries had been auctioned across seven blocks for Rs 306 crore a year (roughly Rs 25 crore per month). Sandhu claimed that now only 16 sites are being operationalised for a month against which a paltry sum of Rs 4.85 crore would come to the government. Sandhu alleged that even as the state government was not being given any royalty and revenue on the plea of not environmental clearance, most quarries had started operating illegally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rebel-aap-mlas-question-tweaked-mining-policy/story-PacYrkCTcjWkqT4SPOoruM.html
17-05-2020||City||Jail inmates clash in Bathinda, one injured||A clash broke out between inmates at the high-security jail in the city on Sunday in which a murder convict Navdeep Chatha suffered multiple fractures. Chatha is a close aide of slain gangster Vicky Gounder and his assailants, Rahul Sood and Ajay Kumar, owe allegiance to other gangs. The incident happened in Block number 6 during the lockout period and sources said Kumar and Sood used iron roads, which they managed to pull out from the barrack doors, in the attack. Jail superintendent Manjit Singh said Kumar was an undertrial in 15 criminal cases, with Rahul facing nine cases. He added that both escaped unhurt. Bathinda DSP Aaswant Dhaliwal said the medical report of Chatha was awaited, but doctors at the civil hospital had said he was out of danger. He added that the process to register a criminal case was on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jail-inmates-clash-in-bathinda-one-injured/story-F9gMFGVxsB9M7BcRTpIvVN.html
17-05-2020||Chandigarh||Exporters flush with orders, good season expected for basmati growers in Punjab||Basmati exporters have asked the growers of this aromatic variety in the state to increase area under cultivation, saying that they have orders in hand, despite the covid-19 pandemic affecting most other sectors of the economy. “We are flush with orders from West Asia, Arabian countries, Europe, Canada and the US. We have asked farmers to increase area under cultivation and would purchase the entire basmati crop at a good remunerative price,” says Ashok Sethi, president, Punjab Rice Exporters’ Association. He added countries around the world were securing buffer stocks, leading to the orders. He added exports of basmati from the country were expected to touch Rs 40,000 crore this year, an increase of 15% over Rs 35,000 crore last year. Punjab is expected to contribute around 40% of the exports, at around Rs 15,000 crore. Sethi added the association has asked basmati growers to grow 1718, 1509 and 1121 varieties as these were in huge demand, both in national and international markets. Sethi added that the market was buoyant despite the fact that Iran was not importing (its share in India’s total export was around 33% till two years ago) due to trade sanctions. “Despite the fact that there is no change is the sanctions scenario there is buoyancy in basmati export from India,” said Sethi.The export market has also come alive as rice exporters and state agriculture department learnt from the challenge the industry faced three years ago, when European countries rejected basmati consignments on traces of insecticides. “The impact of the state-wide campaign we ran then has shown results, as farmers have saved Rs 400 crore by cutting down on usage of pesticides,” said Punjab agriculture secretary Kahan Singh Pannu, adding that his department was in touch with basmati farmers and the state was committed to growing the aromatic variety over 17-18 lack acre. The total crop output is expected at 30 lakh tonne, and with the yield at 18 quintal per acre, a farmer can earn more the traditional paddy. Basmati is grown over large tracts in Tarn Taran, Amritsar, Gurdaspur, Ferozepur, Fazilka, Muktsar, Hoshiarpur and Kapurthala districts. Last year, the Minimum Support Price (MSP) of basmati was Rs 1,840 per quintal, which is expected to cross Rs 1,900 in the current season, though Punjab government has demanded Rs 2,900 from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/exporters-flush-with-orders-good-season-expected-for-basmati-growers-in-punjab/story-9vfYkzetaZ0NDj6OVchDyJ.html
17-05-2020||City||Abduction case: Former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini quizzed by SIT||Former Punjab director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini was on Sunday questioned by the special investigating team (SIT) in a case registered against him in connection with the disappearance of Balwant Singh Multani, a Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation (CITCO) employee, in 1991.Saini was quizzed by the probe team at the office of Mohali senior superintendent of police (SSP). The three-member SIT comprises Mohali superintendent of police (SP-investigation) Harmandeep Singh Hans, deputy superintendent of police (DSP-investigation) Bikramjit Singh Brar and Rajiv Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Mataur, where the case was registered on May 6.SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal said, “Saini reached the office at 4 pm and left at 5.30 pm. We cannot reveal the questions posed by SIT members to the former DGP.”The police had sealed the road leading to the SSP office during Saini’s questioning. The ex-DGP was granted anticipatory bail in the case by a Mohali court on May 11. Following the directions of the court, he had submitted his passport to the police and gave an undertaking that he is ready to join the investigations. The court had restrained Saini from leaving the country without prior permission of the court. While directing Saini to join investigation within seven days, the court had also restrained Saini from making “any threat, promise or inducement to any person conversant with the facts of the case to dissuade him/her from disclosing the truth to the court or police.”THE CASEMultani was allegedly picked up by two officers after a terrorist attack on Saini, then SSP, Chandigarh, in which four policemen in his security posse were killed. The police later claimed that Multani had escaped from the custody of Qadian police.A case was registered under Sections 364 (kidnapping or abduction in order to murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence), 344 (wrongful confinement), 330 (voluntarily causing hurt to exhort confession) and 120 (B) (criminal conspiracy) in Mohali on May 6 on the basis of a complaint filed by Multani’s brother Palwinder Singh Multani.Former DSP Baldev Singh Saini, inspector Satvir Singh, sub-inspectors Har Sahai Sharma, Jagir Singh and Anoop Singh and ASI Kuldip Singh were also named in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/abduction-case-former-punjab-dgp-sumedh-singh-saini-quizzed-by-sit/story-1N451IkSjT0vsg2a8I2cOJ.html
17-05-2020||Mumbai||Ulhasnagar residents flock to liquor shops for home delivery info||After Thane district collector gave permission to order liquor online in the district, several liquor shops in Ulhasnagar put up the contact numbers of their shops. On Sunday, people were seen crowding closed shops to note down contact details to order liquor.Though Thane district collector Rajesh Narvekar on Friday issued an order allowing home delivery and online sale of liquor in the district, containment zones will not have this facility.Liquor shops owners can put up one contact number outside their shops on a board for customers to order.“The Thane collector has allowed online sale of liquor with certain regulations. The customers and wine shop owners should ensure there are no violations of the lockdown norms during the online service,” said Sudhakar Deshmukh, commissioner, Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation.As per the guidelines, customers can opt for home delivery, which has to happen between 10am and 6pm. Single wine shop cannot have more than 10 people for delivery, shop owners cannot overcharge customers and cannot charge delivery fee.A resident of Ulhasnagar, Rupesh Kukreja, 40, said, “On Sunday, many crowded the area outside liquor shops out to note the contact number of the shop owners.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ulhasnagar-residents-flock-to-liquor-shops-for-home-delivery-info/story-YkmKXJUs3lcMyGmQ20fqeM.html
17-05-2020||City||Realtors welcome Centre’s relief package, hope it will revive the sector||NOIDA: Real estate developers in Gautam Budh Nagar have welcomed the Centre’s relief package to revive economy amid the Covid-19 crisis and said that it will impact the realty sector positively. One of the decisions that will benefit in the long term is that now corporate insolvency and bankruptcy proceedings will not be initiated against any company, including real estate ones, for the next one year, they said. In the district, there are a number of developers facing corporate insolvency. Many other realtors, who have failed to finish and deliver the flats to homebuyers, were on the verge of facing insolvency proceedings. But after the recent announcement of the Union ministry of finance, they will not face any legal proceedings for the next one year. In corporate insolvency, homebuyers have failed to get any justice in the past, said the developers, adding that builders will not be put into defaulters’ category if they defaulted on loans due to the Covid-19 pandemic.“The extension of project completion date by six months for housing projects, allocation of Rs 75,000 crore for non- banking finance companies and housing finance companies, reduction in TDS by 25% and other measures would help stimulate demand and improve liquidity in the real estate sector to a great extent. Although the relief as sought by the realty sector has not been addressed, the stimulus has something to offer for the industry. But the government must allow one year additional time to finish and deliver delayed projects. We hope it will be done soon,” said RK Arora, Uttar Pradesh president for National Real Estate Development Council (NAREDCO), a builders’ group.The district has at least 600 ongoing realty projects and the builders hope that after the Centre, the UP government will also make positive announcements to revive the sector. Following instructions from the UP government, on Friday, the Noida authority officials held a meeting in Sector 6 administrative building with the developers on the measures to revive the sector. The meeting was held after the UP industry minister assured of help to the builders.“We are brainstorming on the demands made by the developers and soon the government will take final decisions on their issues,” said Satish Mahana, UP industry minister.Experts hope that recent announcements made by the Centre will create a positive sentiment in the real estate sector.“The ministry of finance announced that any debt incurred during Covid-19 for a company will be excluded from the default category under Indian Bankruptcy Code. Additionally, the ministry announced that no fresh insolvency will be initiated for one year, so impacted businesses can focus on survival and recovery for this period. This measure, along with previously announced sops such as extension of loan moratoriums and project completion deadlines can come to the rescue of small developers who are particularly impacted by the funding crunch and low sales,” said Prashant Thakur, director and head (research), Anarock Property Consultants.Dr Harish Sharma, executive director of Rudrabhishek Enterprises Limited, an urban development & infrastructure consultant, said that the relief package announced by the government will not only give a big push to the economy but will also infuse the positivity among the businesses in the country.“The first tranche provided the much needed liquidity support to the MSMEs and a breather to the real estate sector, the second trance while focusing on migrant workers, street vendors and farmers provided an impetus to the housing sector by extending CLSS and promising affordable rental accommodation to migrants and urban poor,” Sharma said. ,||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/realtors-welcome-centre-s-relief-package-hope-it-will-revive-the-sector/story-hhpbZU7pU63AAxBQuVRtWO.html
17-05-2020||City||Ghaziabad: 40-year-old Covid patient forced to be home for 24 hrs before hospitalisation||A 40-year-old woman, who tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday, was forced to stay with her family on Arthala for close to 24 hours before the administration officials finally swung into action and transferred her to a hospital.Officials, on their part, claimed that the delay was getting the test report of the woman, after which health department officials immediately moved her to a hospital to be quarantined.“I had not been feeling well since February. I was coughing and had visited a government hospital to seek help. There, they gave me some medicines. About a week ago I developed some mild fever and visited a private doctor. He advised a Covid test. I got tested from a private lab and the result came out positive on Saturday,” the woman, who lives in Sanjay Colony in Arthala, said.“Since then I was staying home with my family, which consists three minors and my husband. They were all anxious. After the reports came, I visited two government hospital to get myself admitted but they told me that admission can only be done when health department teams recommends so as per procedure,” she added.The woman’s son said that a health department team finally arrived around12.30pm on Sunday and took her to ESI Hospital in Sahibabad for getting admitted.“The other five members, including me, were sent to quarantine at a facility in Dasna. Since Saturday, all of us were living in anxiety. We live in a small house and the chances of the infection having spread is pretty high. Although I made my mother stay in the corridor of the house, but the delay on part of the hospital may cost us dear,” he added.Dr NK Gupta, chief medical superintendent (CMO), confirmed that the woman tested positive for Covid-19.“Her reports did not arrive at our office till Saturday night. I spoke to the concerned department and was told that the report was finally received on Sunday morning. We immediately rushed a team to take the woman to ESI hospital. The woman had more complications, like tuberculosis, so we later shifted her to a L3 category hospital of Meerut Medical College at Meerut. There has been a delay in getting her admitted,” CMO added.Meanwhile, residents of Kaushambi also said that they had one more Covid-19 positive case on May 15 but the apartment from where the case was detected was yet to be sealed.“The building has not been sealed till date and no sanitization has been taken up. Besides no history or tests of close contacts have been taken up. We have told officials about the issue. There has been delay on part of the health department,” said VK Mittal, president of Kaushambi apartments’ RWA.Likewise, the residents of Ramprastha also said that their locality had another Covid-19 positive case.“We had a positive case in block C on May 15 and the patient is admitted to a hospital in Delhi. The first case here was reported on May 1 and the area was sealed a week later. Now, there is a second case which has emerged. But there has been no sealing and no testing of residents living in the same building,” said AK Jain, resident of Ramprastha. CMO Gupta responded by saying that recommendation for sealing has been sent to the concerned department in both cases.“We have taken activities of sanitisation in the two areas and recommendation for sealing has been sent to the concerned officials. Our containment activities have started,” he added.On Sunday, the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in Ghaziabad stood at 186 with addition of eight cases, out of which two are from Khoda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-40-year-old-covid-patient-forced-to-be-home-for-24-hrs-before-hospitalisation/story-VtQGzKPncJFqSkQV7usw6N.html
17-05-2020||City||Gzb: Occupancy in shelter homes swells as cops pick up migrant workers from city roads||Ghaziabad: A day after the Uttar Pradesh chief minister directed that no migrant worker should be allowed to walk afoot or boarding trucks for their home towns, the Ghaziabad police on Sunday brought in thousands of such people to various shelter homes set up across the city during the Covid-19 lockdown.As a result, almost all the temporary shelter homes on Sunday were packed to capacity. However, the migrant workers who were picked up by the police complained of non-availability of food and poor basic facilities at these shelter homes. Some migrants were even brought to the Angel Mall in Kaushambi, officials said.Mohammad Naseem, a migrant worker who is a native of Barabanki in UP, was picked up by cops and taken to the shelter home at a government school near Sahibabad railway station. He had come to the city from Shahdara in Delhi. “I started from Delhi at 4pm, but was picked up by cops in Sahibabad and brought to the school where about 2,000 people are already there. They also misbehaved with me. The toilets at the school cannot cater to such a large gathering. Nobody is following the social distancing norms. Many women, some of them pregnant, are left in lurch as they are waiting for a bus home,” Naseem said, adding that the people are given only some bananas to eat.Kaushal Pal, a pregnant woman from Auraiya district in UP who reached Ghaziabad from Maujpur, Delhi, was also brought to the school on Saturday night along with her two minor children and husband, a daily wager.“We were hoping to get some bus or truck to our home town. But the cops brought us to the school around 9.30pm. I could not get food as it is distributed only to people who are at the main entrance of the school. There are people from UP and Bihar, with children and women sitting in the scorching heat. There is no social distancing here and we are scared if any one of us is Covid-19 positive,” she said on Sunday.Senior police officials said that all the migrant workers are being made to stay at the shelter homes for some time, and the administration will arrange food and other essential services for them. “We expect that the shelter homes are fully occupied as over 5,000 migrants were taken to these facilities in Kaushambi, Sahibabad and other city areas. The administration will arrange food and water for them. Also, we will arrange buses for them to take them to their respective home towns,” said Manish Mishra, superintendent of police (city).When asked about the complaints of poor basic facilities at the shelter homes, district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said, “We are making all the arrangements at the shelter homes and also trying to improve any shortcomings.” Regarding the lockdown 4.0 that will come into effect from May 18 (Monday), Pandey, in a statement issued on Sunday, said that the current situation will prevail in the district till further instructions are received from the state government.The cops even fined some taxi drivers found to carry migrant workers. “I was ferrying two migrant workers from a shelter home at Sukh Sagar Farm House in Kavi Nagar around 10am to Ghanta Ghar Ramlila Ground when some cops stopped me. They issued challan of Rs 1,300 and threatened to book me in a theft case. Then they shooed the migrants away,” said Sanjay Kumar, a private taxi driver from Shastri Nagar.Migrants like Dileep Kumar, a native of Unnao who stays in Noida’s Sector 12/22, were lucky enough to reach up to Lal Kuan in Ghaziabad from Noida.“Wherever the cops stopped us, we requested them to let us go. My two children are sitting on the cart which I use for selling vegetables and my wife is walking alongside. We had been going to administration offices in Noida for the past five days, but were driven away by cops. So, I decided to start the journey at 9am on Sunday,” Dileep said.“We were 15-20 people and had booked a mini truck for Rs 15,000 for taking us to Unnao. But the cops did not allow us to move out when we started at 2am on Sunday. I was staying at a friend’s house as my landlord turned me out. We are dependent on local people for food and water,” he added.The officials said that two trains were arranged for migrant workers to Bihar from Ghaziabad railway station.“A train left on Sunday from Ghaziabad to Darbhanga in Bihar carrying 1,470 passengers. The second was bound for Purnia and will take along 1,420 migrants. In order to tackle the rush, on Sunday, we allowed even those to board the trains who had not registered online. But this is only for Sunday and a review will be done,” said Santosh Kumar Vaishya, additional district magistrate who is supervising the passenger operations at Ghanta Ghar Ramlila Ground.Meanwhile, the administration officials on Sunday night said in a statement that there is a proposal of running three Shramik special trains that will leave Ghaziabad everyday for UP cities of Gorakhpur (via Lucknow, Barabanki, Gonda, Basti and Khalilabad), Varanasi (via Lucknow, Fatehpur and Prayagraj) and Azamgarh (via Lucknow, Barabanki, Faizabad, Akbarpur, Shahganj and Sarai Mir).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gzb-occupancy-in-shelter-homes-swells-as-cops-pick-up-migrant-workers-from-city-roads/story-hZr5N5ibbYjFrGakgLye5K.html
17-05-2020||City||Hundreds of migrants on foot stopped at Delhi-Ghaziabad border, taken to shelter homes||Hundreds of migrant workers walked to Ghazipur in Delhi near the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border in the hope of being able to cross over into Uttar Pradesh, and further proceed towards their hometowns on Sunday morning. This led to a massive build-up at the Delhi-UP Gate border — which was sealed by authorities two weeks ago— on Delhi-Meerut Expressway near Indirapuram, with police stopping and taking them to shelter homes.The Yogi Adityanath government had asked police and administrative officials to ensure that no migrant worker travelled on foot or in vehicles, after 24 people were killed in UP’s Auraiya district when the truck they were travelling on met with an accident on Saturday morning . Sixteen people on the truck had boarded from an area under the jurisdiction of Indirapuram police station in Ghaziabad.On Sunday, most of the migrants trying to cross over were people who had been working in Delhi and were stranded there after the lockdown was announced. Almost all of them HT spoke to said that they now desperately wanted to get back to their hometowns.Ghaziabad police, however, said that they could not let migrants enter as they were on foot. Only those having valid train tickets will be allowed to enter.“We have not allowed them to walk on the highway and only those having valid train tickets will be allowed entry. We have also not allowed any vehicles carrying migrant workers into Ghaziabad. Any vehicle ferrying migrants is being stopped and workers are made to de-board. Such vehicles ,like trucks, will also face legal action,” said Anshu Jain, circle officer (Indirapuram).The migrants complained that they couldn’t make train reservations since many of them didn’t know how to do online booking.“We were made to sit at the border and not allowed to enter Ghaziabad, from where we hoped to get on to a bus or a train to our hometowns in Bihar. We don’t have any work in Delhi and we need to go home. We are not able to book train tickets online as many of us either don’t know how to do it or don’t have mobile phones to do it,” said Iftekhar, a migrant worker from Purnia in Bihar, who worked at Azad Market in Sadar Bazar area of Delhi.“There were people who even asked for Rs 3,000 to get our train tickets booked. We do not have so much money. So we decided to come to Ghaziabad and are now stranded at the border,” he added.Like Iftekhar, another man Tauseef , said he had been stuck ever since his small factory in Delhi’s Sadar Bazar, which made curtain rings, was shut down.“My factory has shut down and the only way we can survive is by going home. But we are now stuck at the border while hundreds of migrant workers like us have already moved to UP and are headed to their home towns. When we arrived here on Saturday afternoon by a bus, which was headed to Noida, the cops stopped the bus and made us de-board,” said Tauseef, who is native of Arariya in Bihar.“There were hundreds of migrant workers like us at the UP border, but walking alongside the (Hindon) canal area. We know that buses and trains are going from Ghaziabad but we are stranded here and have no means to book online tickets. We were stopped at the border, but food was provided to us,” he added.Later in the day, as hundreds of workers started pouring in towards the border, authorities took them to different shelter homes in Ghaziabad, from where their travel arrangements are being made.“The workers on the Delhi side were not allowed to enter and they were taken away by Delhi Police. Those on our side and those found walking on roads in Ghaziabad were taken to temporary shelter homes,” said Manish Mishra, superintendent of police (city).The UP government has given permission for the operation of Shramik Special trains from Ghaziabad and Noida and trains have been running from these stations since May 15.The Uttar Pradesh government officials on Sunday said that 522 trains have arrived from other states while another 87 will arrive soon.“Within next 2-3 days when these trains arrive, about 16.5 lakh migrant workers will arrive back home in UP. On Saturday, about 1.5 lakh workers arrived in UP,” said Awanish Awasthi, UP’s additional chief secretary (home).“We have also requested the Railways to allow short distance travel of about 200-300km, so that workers can travel between Ghaziabad and Bareilly and Ghaziabad and Mordabad. We have asked the Railways for permission of running Mainline Electric Multiple Unit (MEMU) or EMU trains to ferry workers,” he added.The administration officials on Sunday night said in a statement that there is a proposal of running three trains, which will leave Ghaziabad everyday for cities of Gorakhpur (via Lucknow, Barabanki, Gonda, Basti and Khlilabad), Varanasi (via Lucknow, Fatehpur and Prayagraj) and Azamgarh (via Lucknow, Barabanki, Faizabad, Akbarpur, Shahganj and Sarai Mir).The train services are free of cost for migrant workers, but they have to register online and wait for an SMS which is sent by the state government that serves as their ticket.Apart from the trains, UP roadways is also plying buses to different districts of the state. The UP Roadways till Saturday evening had sent about 600 buses to different areas from Morta in Ghaziabad, with an average seating capacity of 35 passengers.The bus services have been operational for migrant workers for past one week and will continue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hundreds-of-migrants-on-foot-stopped-at-delhi-ghaziabad-border-taken-to-shelter-homes/story-hxZafM7kt9z2capRH0x4mM.html
17-05-2020||Chandigarh||Farmers in Patiala villages ignore PAU advisory, start direct sowing of paddy||Farmers in Patiala district’s villages of Kallarmajri, Thuhi and many others have started sowing paddy, using the direct seeding rice (DSR) methodology, ignoring Punjab Agricultural University (PAU’s) advise of doing so only from June 1. Most of them lack the specialised equipment to do so, and claim that they are doing this early, apprehending labour shortage.Normal sowing of paddy is allowed to start from May 10 and transplantation can be started from June 10. These are both 10 days earlier from previous years.Farmers in some villages also claim to be modifying wheat seed drills to sow paddy. In Thuhi village, a Super Seeder, used for wheat, has been used for direct sowing of paddy. Farmers in the region have uploaded several videos of themselves on YouTube, while they undertake such changes from traditional agricultural practices.Government officials, however, are not impressed and added that this technique entailed the problem of higher weed growth. The use of weedicides, in proper quantity and at the correct time, was critical with this technique, they added.“PAU has advised June 1 as the date to start paddy direct seeding, as it also takes into account climatic conditions. Farmers should follow it. Farmers have also been advised to use it on only 20% of their field size, as it is new,” said SS Walia, Patiala chief agricultural officer, adding, “There are no instructions to forcibly stop farmers from direct sowing before advised date.”He added, “On being advised, farmers tell us that they will plough the field and replant paddy using the old technique, if they do not see favourable results by June 1st week.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/farmers-in-patiala-villages-ignore-pau-advisory-start-direct-sowing-of-paddy/story-hLMOL0GOIqLyinMC1yFKnK.html
17-05-2020||City||Breach in canal floods Karnal’s Ranwar village||Hundreds of Ranwar villagers faced a tough time on Sunday as they woke up to flooded houses and streets following a breach in nearby Avardhan canal.The residents faced difficulty in protecting their belongings and cattle. They said the water entered the village around 4am. Even as they tried to plug the breach, they could not stop the flow of water.They claimed that while some pigs died in a farm outside the village, water destroyed wheat fodder as well. “Around 3.30am, my mother woke me up and I heard people screaming as they found their houses inundated,” said Balinder Singh, a local. Nishant Kumar Yadav, deputy commissioner of Karnal, reached the village and issued directions to plug the breach. He said, “The water entered only one village, but it later submerged some fields. It was, however, diverted to the Yamuna through a drain near the village.”The DC said there wasn’t any report of loss of life and the cattle were safe. The administration has pressed roadways buses and divers into service for evacuation, if required, he added. DC Yadav said the flow of water was stopped at Yamunanagar, but it will take some hours to reduce its level. About the cause of breach, he said the reason could not be ascertained yet, but in the initial findings it was revealed that it was due to weak lining of the canal.Local MLA Harvinder Kalyan also reached the village and assured all support to the villagers from the government. He said the water was being diverted to the empty fields and officials were working to seal the breach. However, locals accused the government and administration of not taking the required measures to repair the banks of canal and claimed that the water was flowing above the canal capacity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/breach-in-canal-floods-karnal-s-ranwar-village/story-ehNHrJ3yJrDjMlS49HPC0I.html
17-05-2020||City||Noida: Body of newborn baby found floating in drain||Noida: The body of a newborn baby boy was found floating in the Barola drain on Sunday morning, the police said. The incident was reported around 11.30am when a passerby called the police helpline (112) about the body. The body has been sent for an autopsy and the case is being investigated, the Sector 49 police said.“It was a baby boy barely a few days old. There are no external injury marks on the body and it has been sent for an autopsy,” said Dharmendra Kumar Sharma, station house officer (SHO), Sector 49 police station.Prima facie it appears that the child died due to drowning, but the exact cause of death will be ascertained only after the autopsy report comes in, the police said.“The drain begins at Sector 62 and somebody must have dumped the child in it at any point after which it floated down to where it was found. We are investigating the case and all angles are being looked into,” said Sharma.According to the officials, cops suspect that an unwed mother might have thrown the baby into the drain.The SHO also said that legal action will be taken once the autopsy report comes in.The police said that a case will be registered after the responsible party is apprehended, and if the need arises a suo motu cognizance of the matter may also be taken.On the evening of April 28, the Noida police had found an abandoned newborn girl child at the Parthla roundabout after which she had been sent to the adoption centre in Mathura. Whereabouts of her family are still unknown, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-body-of-newborn-baby-found-floating-in-drain/story-oEqo2uh4tSMYeu4JjaN6dM.html
17-05-2020||Mumbai||10 TMT buses are now ambulances||The Thane Municipal Corporation had decided to convert 10 of its buses into ambulances. Five Thane Municipal Transport (TMT) buses have already been converted into ambulance.Recently, a pregnant woman and her five-year-old daughter had to wait for over 12 hours for an ambulance to take them to a Covid hospital in Thane. Several such complaints have come in from across the city as there are not enough ambulances as the number of patients are increasing. TMC has 21 ambulances, including 11 regular ones, six maternity ambulances and four cardiac ambulances. Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of TMC, said, “Ten TMT buses will be converted into ambulances. Five are already in service from today. The rest will be ready by tomorrow. Each bus has two beds. The driver’s cabin has a partition. The ambulance will be operated in three shifts.”Residents can call 022-25399828 to avail this service.The TMC has appointed over 500 Covid warriors across the city to help it trace contacts and also keep an eye on residents who do not abide by social distancing norms. There are over 500 Covid volunteers keeping a watch in all the wards.Malvi said, “Earlier, we had stationed volunteers only in wards which had more cases. Now, we have at least 10 volunteers in all wards. We will increase the number to 1,300 volunteers. The volunteers alert us immediately if they come to know of any person showing Covid symptoms.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/10-tmt-buses-are-now-ambulances/story-9vfrgEOWkRJnFW73tYu0hM.html
17-05-2020||City||Aqua Line to remain closed till May 31, strict passenger norms when service resumes||NoidaNoida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) on Saturday said that its Aqua Line service — that connects Noida to Greater Noida — will remain closed till May 31, after the Union home ministry issued a detailed set of guideline for lockdown 4.0. Ritu Maheshwari, managing director of NMRC said, “The Aqua Line service will remain closed as per government order.”Recently NMRC had started gearing up to resume its services and made elaborate arrangements, like pasting stickers inside Aqua Line coaches and also in Metro stations to guide commuters to maintain social distancing. As per rules proposed by NMRC, only two persons can sit on the 4-seater bench and three persons can sit on the 6-seater bench in the train coaches. NMRC’s initiatives — aimed at ensuring adequate social distance — also included standing in queue at designated space ofone metre distance at frisking zones, platforms and inside the trains. On Saturday, workers had sanitized the stations and trains.On Friday, NMRC had said that the commuters need to maintain at least 10 mm gap between AFC sensor and smart card /QR ticket to avoid touching. On escalators, a gap of at least two steps was to be maintained between two commuters. A maximum of three persons were to use the lift at one time and passengers should stand facing the wall panels of the lift to prevent face to face interaction.NMRC has also pasted stickers on train seats advising people not to sit on marked seats. The officials said instructions will be displayed at platform to allow de-boarding of passengers first , ebfore commuters got on the trains, once the service resumes.The crowd inside the train as well as at station/platform will be monitored through CCTV. In case of emergency, stoppages at the stations, that are overcrowded may be skipped after making announcement inside the train by train operator and at station by the station controller.The NMRC has placed signages at all entry, exits, platform, lift gates, escalators and AFC gates with various guidelines, journey instructions, crowd management instructions, sanitization instructions and journey precautions. On Friday, NMRC said that ‘Aarogya Setu’ aap and temperature screening is a must for commuting on the Aqua Line.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aqua-line-to-remain-closed-till-may-31-strict-passenger-norms-when-service-resumes/story-DynraGc9uCNm4T44XlbQpI.html
17-05-2020||City||After being sealed in for 45 days, residents of Jawaharpur village in Mohali beseech administration to be let out||After being cut off from the rest of the district for 45 days, residents of Jawaharpur village that was sealed after it became a hotspot of the coronavirus are demanding the restrictions be lifted as they are unable to buy essential supplies.Some residents have complained that they have not been receiving ration for the last few days and are making do by borrowing from neighbours. Even vegetable vendors were not allowed, they said. They even held a protest in the village raising slogans against the administration on Thursday.All 46 patients from the village have been discharged. In its 200-year-old history, the village has never borne such a brunt before where a virus has made it a no-go zone. The number of positive cases in the village account for 45% of the total 105 cases in the district. On April 4, the village was declared a hotspots and containment zone and it was sealed. The administration had claimed that they would be providing food and ration at the doorsteps of the residents. A resident, Gurpreet Singh, said, “It has become difficult to even get medicines and most of the time, we get it after a gap of four days. For the first time we have seen such restrictions in our village.”When contacted, sub-divisional magistrate of Dera Bassi Kuldeep Bawa said the allegations were false. “We have the list of the residents of the entire village and have provided them everything. Only issue is they want to step out of the village and we cannot allow this.”The village located on the Ambala- Chandigarh highway has a population of around 3,000. With a special police force called Covid Commandos assisting health officials, sample testing continues to take place here.One of the first persons to test positive on April 4 here was Malkit Singh and his cousin, the village sarpanch, who reportedly defied curfew norms to organise community meals and interact with the locals, because of which 46 villagers were infected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-being-sealed-in-for-45-days-residents-of-jawaharpur-village-in-mohali-beseech-administration-to-be-let-out/story-J5HU30G8wRdXdrOJPmdUvK.html
17-05-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University to take Phd vivas online if departments are ready||Panjab University has decided to take vivas of Phd scholars on virtual platforms, if the departments are ready, registrar Karamjeet Singh said.He was addressing students online on the challenges that the varsity is facing in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak.PU had earlier passed an order on May 5, which allowed PhD scholars to take their vivas online. But, it was withdrawn amid criticism from senators as it indicated retrenchment of contractual and guest faculty when the academic session endsSingh said the university will finalise the schedule for examinations, including practicals, which will be communicated to students. He added that the university will take all decisions in the best interest of students.“Students can get their queries answered on the helpline numbers of the university or on the e-mail address provided on the website,” he said.ROW OVER ADDRESSING STUDENTS A row erupted on Saturday after the students’ organisation, Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP), announced the registrar would be using their social media handle to address students. .Many student organisations were left irked and registered their discontent over the move.Following this, the registrar said he would address students’ queries using PU’s official Facebook handle.Leaders of the National Students’ Union of India (NSUI) and Indian National Students’ Organisation (INSO) have written to the vice-chancellor opposing the move.“ABVP had asked me to address students’ doubts on their Facebook handle. Later, students of other organisations also approached me for the same,” the registrar said.NSUI president Nikhil Narmeta said, “The university has taken a good initiative. But, they made a mistake initially by using the platform of a particular students’ party.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-to-take-phd-vivas-online-if-departments-are-ready/story-5nu9S9fFDBkZZHuptVXjXL.html
17-05-2020||Chandigarh||Parole, bail of 30% prisoners in Chandigarh’s Model Jail extended||Undertrials and convicts at Chandigarh’s Burail Model Jail granted special bail or parole between March 27 to May 9 due to the Covid-19 outbreak have been given an extension by the state legal services authority (SLSA), it has been learnt.The decision was taken at an SLSA meeting on Sunday between Justice Jaswant Singh of the Punjab and Haryana high court with inspector general of prisons Ombir Singh and home secretary Arun Kumar Gupta.Interim bail and parole of prisoners released from March 27 to April 25 will be extended by five weeks (35 days) and for others freed from April 26 to May 9 by three weeks (21 days). However, those released after May 10 will be given no extension.The prisoners’ return will be staggered to prevent undue crowding of the prison with only 20 undertrials/convicts taken back at one time. They will then be sent to isolation wards. The decision to release undertrials was taken to decongest the prison during the Covid-19 lockdown.“The prisoners released on special bail for a period of 60 days will be due to return shortly. In the prevailing Covid-19 situation, readmitting prisoners has enormous risk and will defeat the whole purpose of releasing them” observed the committee.Special lok adalatThe superintendent of police at Burail has also been asked to inform the SLSA about undertrails committing petty offences within one week, which will then hold a lok adalat to dispose of cases, reportedly exercising leniency.Since March 27, in three special lok adalats, 147 cases were taken up, in which the release of 104 prisoners was ordered but 72 were actually let off.Besides this, at least 42 prisoners were released after furnishing personal bonds.Convicted prisonersUp till May 15, jail authorities processed 332 parole applications, of which 229 prisoners were released and only 174 granted special parole. About 55 persons were not released for want of sureties and applications of 56 were rejected. The committee decided that convicts who had already availed one parole/furlough peacefully and surrendered on time at the jail gate could be granted a onetime six-week special parole, on the same set of sureties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/parole-bail-of-30-prisoners-in-chandigarh-s-model-jail-extended/story-Zthouj4E9gkCGRjgnMl6sM.html
17-05-2020||City||District admin clears dues of women employees at quarantine centre after protest||NOIDA: High drama was witnessed at the district hospital in Sector 39 on Sunday when nearly a dozen grade-IV contractual women employees climbed atop the terrace of the 18-storey building and started raising slogans against the Gautam Budh Nagar district administration for alleged non-payment of their pending salaries.These women employees are working in the housekeeping department of the quarantine centre at the district hospital. The district administration has recently decided to close the quarantine facility at the hospital, and to develop it into a dedicated Covid-19 hospital. However, the matter was resolved in a few hours after the district administration, taking cognizance of the agitation, constituted a two-member probe committee, including Gautam Budh Nagar chief development officer (CDO) Anil Kumar Singh and additional chief medical officer Dr Amit Vikram, to look into the matter and immediately redress their demands.“Things have been sorted out. They are happy and willing to work again,” said the CDO. When contacted, the agitators also said that their dues have been cleared. “We were left with no option but to stage a protest as our demands would fall on deaf ears of the hospital administration. We have got our pending payments today and don’t have any grievance now,” said a demonstrator, preferring anonymity.Singh said that after the decision of making the district hospital a dedicated Covid-19 hospital, these employees had doubts that they would not get their pending salaries. “After this matter came into the cognizance of the administration, I personally met them and asked the reason behind the agitation. They said that they were apprehensive about their payments, and had no option other than to demonstrate to catch the attention of higher authorities,” he said.Singh said that the administration has made immediate payments of the pending amounts to the demonstrators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/district-admin-clears-dues-of-women-employees-at-quarantine-centre-after-protest/story-bCf6uZzKtfVDgGrZAwlYFL.html
17-05-2020||City||Unidentified man ends life by jumping before train in Zirakpur||An unidentified man committed suicide by jumping before a goods train in Zirakpur on Saturday night. The incident took place in Sonali village around 9.30pm. Government Railway Police chowki in-charge Rajinder Singh Dhillon said the man had not been indentified yet, and appeared to be around 25 years old. The body has been kept in the mortuary of the Dera Bassi civil hospital for 72 hours for identification before the autopsy is conducted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/unidentified-man-ends-life-by-jumping-before-train-in-zirakpur/story-Pucsc6WJ7QR0onSJytOxtJ.html
17-05-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University holds webinar on prison reforms in India||The University Institute of Legal Studies (UILS), Panjab University, organised a webinar on prison reforms in India, on Sunday.The online event, “Prison reforms in India: Social-legal perspective”, was organised by teacher in-charge of UILS’ criminal justice practicum cell (CJPC), Anju Choudhary in which more than 200 people participated.The panellists included member of Parliament, Viplove Thakur, former Justice of Andhra Pradesh high court, G Bhavani Prasad; director general, prisons, Himachal Pradesh, Somesh Goyal, and director general of Haryana vigilance bureau, KP Singh. Goyal raised the issue of overcrowding in prisons and said there is a need for a centralised scheme to make atmosphere in prisons amicable to help in the reformation and rehabilitation of prisoners.He also spoke on the need for better and transparent mechanism.MV Krishna Rao, former director general of prisons, Andhra Pradesh, said the head of the department needs to have the political confidence of the government to implement changes effectively.MR Ahmed, former inspector general of prisons, AP, and director, academy of prisons and correctional administration, Telengana, spoke on various national and international covenants involved in the prison reforms system. He also emphasised on the need for a central service dedicated to prisons in order to effect changes in the field of correctional administration and to increase participation and answerability of correction officers in prison reforms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-holds-webinar-on-prison-reforms-in-india/story-7GP8rYclWbHokXO514Yx8H.html
17-05-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai Metro says no plastic token to curb Covid-19 spread||Along the lines of the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), the Mumbai Metro One Pvt Ltd (MMOPL), which runs the Versova-Andheri-Ghatkopar Metro-1, will also completely do away with the use of plastic tokens to limit contact and the spread of Covid-19 once it restarts.MMOPL is in the process of drafting a protocol for measures to be taken once public transport is opened. It had already started eliminating the use of plastic tokens in January and replaced it with paper QR tickets. “We will encourage commuters to use the mobile application and smart cards more to limit contact. There will be limited usage of paper tickets too,” said a source in the know.He added that alternate seats in the coaches that have to be left unoccupied will be marked, entries will be restricted with only a few gates open and thermal scanners and sanitisers will be provided at the entry to the station.Around 4.5 lakh commuters travel via the 11.5-km corridor.Meanwhile, the Mumbai Monorail, which relies mainly on plastic tokens for ticketing, is also developing a mobile application for ticketing. “We have a backup system of paper tickets but we will do away with tokens,” said an official who did not wish to be named. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), which runs the Monorail, is also planning to develop a common mobility application which will allow commuters to plan and pay for trips across all transport modes.Several mobility organisations are also suggesting measures so that public transport can resume even as cities fight the pandemic. ITDP India Programme, in its report, for transport undertakings dealing with bus operations have suggested several measures which include only allowing commuters wearing masks, conductors ensuring queue during boarding and alighting buses and contactless ticketing options and digital payments.“Covid-19 provides Indian cities with an opportunity to transform their public transport services by improving user experience through technology, investing in public transport as a social good, reforming informal transit services, and promoting walking and cycling for shorter trips,” said Parin Visariya, senior urban development associate at ITDP India Programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-metro-says-no-plastic-token-to-curb-covid-19-spread/story-WNBbWfiMrwaRgVJr7XDfcL.html
17-05-2020||Mumbai||Man kills fellow fish vendor over ₹150, held||Sewri police have arrested a 22-year-old man for killing a 28-year-old fish vendor over a petty issue on Saturday.During the investigation, police found that a fight took place between the accused Hussain Shaikh alias Chulbul and the victim Riyaz Rafiq Shaikh, as the later had failed to repay ₹150 that he had borrowed from the accused over four years ago. The accused was jobless and was in dire need of money. After a heated argument over the loan, he hit the victim on the head with a stone, killing him. According to police, Hussain and Riyaz lived in the same slum near the BPCL refinery at Mazagaon. Both of them used to earn their livelihood by selling fish at Ferry Wharf in Dockyard. “The accused hit Riyaz with a stone on his head. Riyaz was taken to JJ Hospital, where he was declared dead from serious head injuries,” said Gajanan Kurade, senior inspector, Sewree police station. After the incident, the accused ran away from the spot. The victim’s brother Shafiq Rafiq Shaikh, 22, informed police that Riyaz and Hussain had fought three days before the incident as well.“It was found during the investigation that Riyaz and Hussain fought on Friday. Riyaz had assaulted Hussain with a steel scale and had also abused him. Accordingly, a search for Hussain was started and he was found hiding on a boat near Ferry Wharf. Hussain alleged that Riyaz had to give him ₹150 for a fish deal four or five years ago. When Hussain demanded the amount, the deceased refused to pay,” said Kurade.Hussain was arrested and booked under section 302 (punishment for murder) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-kills-fellow-fish-vendor-over-150-held/story-3oF0sT8r29NRGqeJYDctbO.html
17-05-2020||Mumbai||People gathering at wetland is posing risk to flamingos: Residents||Residents of NRI Complex in Navi Mumbai on Sunday said wildlife photographers and enthusiasts gathered in large numbers, in violation of lockdown norms, inside the creek at Talawe wetlands on Sunday to spot the discolouration of water and flamingos. Irked by their movement close to the birds, residents said the flamingo habitat was being disturbed with the migratory birds flying in different directions during low tide. “On most days, there are two to three people, but on Sunday more than 10 people were spotted at the creek. With such disturbance, the birds may not return at all to this feeding ground. And it is also a violation of lockdown orders,” said Sunil Agarwal, a resident.Tanveer Shaikh, senior inspector, NRI Coastal police station, said, “Eight media persons had coordinated with us and were issued permissions to take photographs of the birds on Sunday. However, if there were any unauthorised persons there, action will be taken against them.”HT had, on Sunday, reported that following large congregation of flamingos at the site during the lockdown, water at one section of the creek had turned pink, most likely due to algal bloom.Another resident, Seema Tania, shared images and said there were 12 people, including two foreigners, in the creek on Sunday evening. “They had walked into the creek, very close to the birds, to take photographs during low tide using an arterial road,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/people-gathering-at-wetland-is-posing-risk-to-flamingos-residents/story-sQphat7YZit0BNPz0m26VI.html
17-05-2020||Chandigarh||Private schools in Chandigarh to reopen with staff on 33% rotation, classes remain suspended||Private schools in Chandigarh have been allowed to function with 33% employees on rotation-basis, for office work and drawing up of salary statements and account expenditures, from Monday, UT director of school education, Rubinderjit Singh Brar, said. He added that teachers who want to make online tutorials from school can also attend duty. Classes will remain suspended for now.Independent Schools’ Association (ISA) had announced they would be opening schools for teaching and non-teaching staff on rotational-basis from Monday. In a meeting held on Friday, ISA had submitted their presentation to restart schools to the UT education department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/private-schools-in-chandigarh-to-reopen-with-staff-on-33-rotation-classes-remain-suspended/story-725N97Cjop9R4xZEM5vDCI.html
17-05-2020||Chandigarh||Public transport to be back on track in Chandigarh||After nearly two months of remaining off road, public transport in Chandigarh is all set to be back on track.With the central government issuing fresh guidelines for the lockdown 4.0 post May 17, the UT administration is planning to resume public transport, allow interstate movement of vehicles and persons without passes and opening of Sector 17 and Madhya Marg markets among other relaxations in the city.The final decision on relaxations will be taken in a meeting to be presided over by UT administrator VPS Badnore on Monday.The city was placed under lockdown on the midnight of May 3, after the curfew imposed since March 24 was lifted. A number of relaxations were also allowed between 7am and 7pm.Manoj Kumar Parida, UT adviser, said, “As per the central government guidelines, we are considering to resume local and interstate bus services. Apart from this, a decision will also be taken on whether to open Madhya Marg and Sector 17 markets besides other congested ones in Sectors 19 and 22. Chandigarh is a union territory, and directions of the ministry of home affairs will be followed. The final decision will be taken by the UT administrator on Monday. Status quo will continue till formal orders are issued by the administration.”Manoj Kumar Parida, UT adviserDiscussion will also be held on whether to continue with odd-even formula for opening shops in inner sector markets.On Sunday, the Centre allowed interstate transport in public and private vehicles in the fourth phase of lockdown, with mutual consent of states and UTs. The public transport will be opened with partial capacity, as only 50% of the seats will be allowed to be used. Decision on red zone tooWith the Centre empowering states and UTs to delineate red, orange and green zones, the UT administration will also be deciding on the red zone designation for the city. As many as 191 Covid-19 cases have been reported in the city till Sunday evening with no fresh case reported for the last four days.“Majority of the cases are from six containment zones, and there has been no fresh case for the last four days. The administrator will take the final decision on whether to keep the entire city under red zone or only limited areas,” said a senior UT official, who didn’t want to be named.The city, designated as a red zone on April 15, has six containment zones. Within these containment zones, only essential activities will be allowed. There will be strict perimeter control to ensure that there is no movement of people in or out of these zones, except for medical emergencies and for maintaining supply of essential goods and services.LOCKDOWN 4.0 IN CHANDIGARHNight curfew will continue to remain in force on the movement of individuals, for all non-essential activities, between 7pm and 7amWHAT WILL REMAIN CLOSEDAll domestic and international air travel of passengersSchools, colleges, educational/training/coaching institutionsHotels, restaurants a, bars and other hospitality servicesCinema halls, shopping malls, gymnasiums, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, auditoriums, assembly hallsAll social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural, religious functions, other gatherings and large congregationsAll religious places, places of worshipWHAT’S LIKELY TO OPENAs per the central government’s directions, all other activities will be permitted except those specifically prohibited under the guidelinesLocal and interstate bus serviceIntercity movement of people and vehicles without passesMarkets on sector-dividing roads and Sector 17E-commerce activities for non-essential goodsRestaurants permitted to operate kitchens for home delivery of food itemsSports complexes and stadiums, without spectatorsCycle rickshaws, auto rickshaws, taxis and cab aggregatorsBarber shops, spas and salons||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/public-transport-to-be-back-on-track-in-chandigarh/story-O7aFffZf9YYED3UJcosoTK.html
17-05-2020||Mumbai||In less than a year, 59 fishermen awarded ₹11.9L for rescuing protected marine animals||In less than a year, the Maharashtra fishing community has rescued 64 protected and endangered marine mammals caught in their fishing nets. The state mangrove cell on Sunday said 59 fishermen were compensated with ₹11,94,350 for the safe release of these marine species over the past 10 months. Within the last seven days, 19 fishers were compensated with an amount of ₹3,65,000 across Thane, Raigad and Palghar.The compensation scheme for the conservation practice was launched by the mangrove cell and fisheries department on December 21, 2018, and was subsequently passed by the state Cabinet. Endangered marine animals, protected under various schedules of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, get caught in large trawler fishing nets and are rescued by cutting these fishnets. However, while the animals survive once the nets are cut, the fishing community endures a loss due to damaged nets. Hence, for such rescues a monetary compensation of up to ₹25,000 was proposed if the fisher can submit evidence of the rescue and damaged nets to the state. “Through several awareness drives and local outreach programmes, we managed to convince 1,100 members of the fishing community along the Konkan coast about the value of endangered marine species. The efforts have resulted in mutual benefit of marine life and the community,” said Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forest (mangrove cell).So far, 27 olive ridley turtles, 17 whale sharks, 16 green sea turtles, one case each for hawksbill turtle, leatherback turtle, Indian Ocean humpback dolphin and giant guitar fish, all majorly Schedule I species under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, have been rescued. While maximum cases have been reported from Thane district (23), Sindhudurg reported 16 cases, Raigad 13, Palghar 9, Ratnagiri 2, and one case in Mumbai.“Of the total of 64 cases reported so far, five fishermen are yet to be compensated as we are still verifying the evidence,” said Tiwari. “Our researchers are also benefitting from this scheme as the fishing community has been sharing vital information about habitat preferences and occurrences of rare marine life along the state’s coastline. We are planning detailed conservation studies across such zones.”The state’s coastline had witnessed a surge in marine mammal deaths and stranding incidents (143 cases) between 2016 and 2019. However, the frequency of such cases has reduced over the past year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/in-less-than-a-year-59-fishermen-awarded-11-9l-for-rescuing-protected-marine-animals/story-W7UDDDsuIjFDPLexdzNtKI.html
17-05-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan records highest single-day spike of 242 Covid-19 cases||In the highest single-day spike, Rajasthan reported 242 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the tally to 5,202 while five deaths took the number of casualties to 131, the state health department said in its evening bulletin.It was the fifth day in a row that the number of new cases crossed 200 in the stateHealth officials said the 242 cases reported on Sunday include 60 from Jaipur, 43 from Jodhpur, 18 from Dungarpur and 14 from Pali.There was an outbreak in the jails on Saturday when 119 cases were reported from two prisons in Jaipur district. On Sunday too, until 2pm, 14 cases had been reported from the two jails.Health minister Raghu Sharma said the department had started random sampling in jails to prevent the spread of the infection.“We are also trying to find out how the virus got into the jails,” he said. Sharma said a Covid care centre has been set up in Jaipur district jail as isolation facility for positive cases. “We are shifting only positive cases with co-morbidities to outside hospitals,” he said.The Rajasthan high court had earlier taken suo motu cognizance of the Covid-19 outbreak in jails and ordered the state government to form committees in every district comprising secretary of district legal services authority, chief medical and health officer and president or secretary of district bar association to check if jails were following government’s guidelines on prevention of infection.It said the committees will visit the jails and submit their report to Rajasthan State Legal Services Authority, which, in turn, will collate all district reports and present them in the high court.Rajasthan has been reporting more than 200 new cases of Covid-19 every day since May 13. The number was 202 on May 13, 206 on May 14, and 213 each on May 15 and 16.Rajasthan’s tally crossed the 5,000 mark on Sunday morning before ending day at 5,202, which includes 61 Iran evacuees and 49 of Border Security Force (BSF) personnel.Out of the 5,202 cases, 3,055 have recovered and 2,655 of them even sent home. The number of active cases in the state is 2,016.Five deaths were also reported in the state on Sunday – two from Jaipur and one each from Bharatpur, Bikaner and Kota.Rajasthan has so far tested 231,946 samples, out of which 221,764 tested negative and 5,103 are under process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-records-highest-single-day-spike-of-242-covid-19-cases/story-7AgqjNH90cxMLgUrw1sDiJ.html
17-05-2020||Mumbai||Sudden spike in air pollution, may worsen further: SAFAR||The city’s air quality deteriorated on Sunday with a sudden spike in pollutant measuring indicator. Air quality index (AQI) for PM2.5 — breathable particulate matter of 2.5 microns or less in size — increased from 55 on Saturday to 90 on Sunday, both falling under the ‘satisfactory’ category. AQI for PM10 (larger coarser particles) shot up from 62 to 96 during the same time, according to the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR). City’s AQI levels had not crossed 65 from April 8 to May 16.SAFAR categorises AQI for pollutants in the 0-50 range as good; 51-100 as satisfactory; 101-200 as moderate; 201-300 as poor; 301-400 as very poor and above 400 as severe.“A moderate dust storm that originated in Afghanistan is beginning to sweep past Rajasthan and western parts of India. We expect pollution levels to rise, especially for PM10, over the next two to three days unless these areas receive rainfall,” said Gufran Beig, director, SAFAR.Researchers said pollution levels are expected to increase further on Monday with AQI for PM2.5 likely to be 121 and for PM10 105, both falling in the ‘moderate’ category.Among the 10 monitoring stations in the city, Andheri had the worst air at 188 for PM2.5, followed by Bhandup at 139 and Colaba at 115, all under the ‘moderate’ category. The concentration for PM10 was 138 micrograms per cubic metre (μg/m³) against the safe limit of 100 μg/m³ for 24 hours. PM2.5 levels were 60 μg/m³, which was at the 24-hour safe limit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sudden-spike-in-air-pollution-may-worsen-further-safar/story-SXdCgNmtnOQ5IdP1vhzYEI.html
17-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh administration to set up appointment system for buying alcohol||Want do enjoy a quiet drink at home in the evening, need to replenish your alcohol stock and don’t want to queue up for bottles of wine or whiskey in the May heat? Well, soon you will be able to book an appointment online with a liquor vend, get a token, and go pick up your bottle(s) at a specified time.The move comes after crowds thronged vends, serpentine queues formed and people forgot social distancing rules in their eagerness to get their hands on alcohol on May 4 after 40 “dry” days of lockdown due to Covid-19 restrictions.An appointment system, the administration hopes, will keep away the crowds.It will allow people to book an appointment online, get a token and reach the vend at a specified time to pick up alcohol.Dates to start the facility are yet to be fixed.“Dedicated mobile and web based applications have been developed with the help of National Informatics Centre, Chandigarh. A buyer will have to register on it, book his purchase and get an electronic token to show at the time of purchase,” said a senior UT official privy to the development.A fixed number of about 40 tokens will be issued in an hour even though the exact number is yet to be fixed.The application and the website for getting the e-token is likely to be known as ‘liquor e-token’. Buyers will have to register online and share details like name, address, mobile number and age.Currently, around 66 liquor vends are operational in the city under the excise policy of 2019-2020, which has been extended till June 30. On Saturday, the department announced that the licence fee will be paid in terms of pro-rata basis.An excise department notification read that the fee already paid by the retail sale licensees for March 23 to March 31 when they could not run their vends due to the lockdown and curfew would be adjusted in the licence fee to be paid for the extended period. People who have not applied for extension/renewal of licences and those not getting licences extended/renewed for the extended period will have their licence fee refunded for the March 23 to 31 period.Also, cow cess will be levied at the rate of Rs 5 per bottle of 750ml of country liquor, Rs 5 per bottle of 650ml of beer and Rs 10 per bottle of 750ml of whiskey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-to-set-up-appointment-system-for-buying-alcohol/story-06ScIUXyDctc1s6WzWxQHK.html
17-05-2020||Mumbai||State wildlife board hasn’t met since December 2018||Key development projects, wildlife mitigation measures and crucial decisions on translocation of big cats have been put on hold since the State Board for Wildlife (SBWL) has not met since December 2018. What’s worse is that the wildlife body, chaired by the chief minister, has not been reconstituted since the Uddhav Thackeray government came to power in November 2019.The details were revealed after the state chief wildlife warden recently wrote to the Maharashtra government about the defunct SBWL requesting for an immediate reconstitution of the board. “Unless it is reconstituted, only official members will remain part of the board, and the board cannot function if non-official or non-government members are not present,” said Nitin Kakodkar, principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife), Maharashtra. “A communication has been sent to the state about this. SBWL does not only issue clearances for projects but it is also the recommending body for notification of new protected areas, decisions on major research projects in wildlife zones, and is crucial in allowing translocation of big cats.”When major linear infrastructure or irrigation project proposals are placed before SBWL, the body orders site inspection first. The inspection report is then tabled before SBWL, following which the said proposals can be recommended and sent to the standing committee of the National Board for Wildlife (NBWL) under the Union environment ministry, said another SBWL member.Final recommendations on projects including the Mumbai-Ahmedabad Bullet train, wildlife mitigation measures for Mumbai-Nagpur expressway (Maharashtra Samruddhi Mahamarg), 126-km Virar-Alibag multi-modal corridor, Railways’ dedicated Delhi-Mumbai freight corridor, Goregaon-Mulund tunnel passing through boundaries of Sanjay Gandhi National Park and Tungareshwar Wildlife Sanctuary, and two interstate irrigation projects between Maharashtra and Telangana — Pranahita Chevella Project and Chanaka-Korata Project, are pending, said Kishor Rithe, former SBWL member who was present during the last meeting on December 5, 2018. “SBWL is an important board for deciding policies regarding wildlife conservation and management. It also deals with several infrastructure projects that are likely to have negative impact on protected areas. So both the issues wildlife management and infrastructure projects get stuck if SBWL does not function. I hope the state will constitute the same soon,” said Rithe.Former member Anish Andheria said SBWL should meet at least once every six months. “There are many issues ranging from human-animal conflict, biodiversity protection and systematic reviews of conservation decision. Considering such problems are on the rise, SBWL is an integral body with powers to address these concerns. We request the state to expedite to take this up at the earliest,” he said.After repeated attempts to reach additional chief secretary (revenue and forests) Manu Kumar Srivastava, he did not comment. However, a senior state government official, requesting anonymity, said, “The Covid-19 pandemic has stalled the agenda of a number of subjects, and SBWL is one of them. Official members are all handling pandemic related problems. However, the final decision on this will be taken by the chief minister soon.”Meanwhile, various bodies of the Union environment ministry, including the standing committee of NBWL, have been meeting through video conferencing and taking calls on projects. During the first week of April, NBWL issued the final clearance for the ₹55,335-crore Mumbai-Nagpur super highway. “Overall, bodies that are supposed to ensure the protection of wildlife have made a mockery of their responsibilities,” said environmentalist Stalin D.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-wildlife-board-hasn-t-met-since-december-2018/story-kQjzTKYTuP7XohPDVLgZnJ.html
17-05-2020||City||Recovered cop gets a warm welcome||A police constable from JJ Marg police station recovered from coronavirus disease and was discharged from hospital on Saturday.When he returned to his home in Kalwa, his colleagues welcomed with a song and announced over megaphone that they were happy that he had recovered. Senior police inspector from Kalwa police station, S Darekar, said, “We decided to celebrate his recovery. We joined the residents and showered him with flower petals. We performed aarti and gave him a bouquet. Some of the residents sang patriotic songs for him.”The 50-year-old constable was overwhelmed with the welcome. “It was a difficult time. Being strong is the only option during the quarantine period,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/recovered-cop-gets-a-warm-welcome/story-kyA9BEUfF3LdOQdhVvjR6K.html
17-05-2020||Mumbai||80% of stored blood used up; city stares at acute shortage||The city is on the verge of facing acute blood shortage as the current blood storage across blood banks is likely to suffice only ten days. This is a result of donors staying away from hospitals and blood banks in fear of contracting Covid-19.Mumbai generally requires 900 units of blood a day, but the number has dipped to 400 units a day since the outbreak of Covid-19 and the subsequent lockdown. Officials at the State Blood Transfusion Council (SBTC) said that almost 80% of stored blood across the 58 blood banks in the city has dried up. The shortage came to the fore last week when Nashik resident Suwarna Pawar, 25, had to wait for four days for a foetus blood transfusion at Wadia Maternity Hospital. The seven-month pregnant woman had rushed to the Parel-based hospital on Wednesday after the foetus was diagnosed with a rare-genetic disorder and immediately needed blood transfusion. However, the hospital didn’t have his blood group O- (negative).“My blood group is A- (negative) and my child is O- (negative). We kept searching for blood for four days. Finally, doctors transfused blood on Saturday. I thought I would lose the child,” said Pawar who is still undergoing treatment at the hospital. In another case, Sohini Mazumdar, 38, a patient of thalassemia — a blood disorder wherein the body produces less haemoglobin — struggled for four days to arrange one unit of blood. “I need blood transfusion every 15 days to survive since my body can’t produce enough blood. If I don’t get blood on time, I may even die. Arranging for blood is my monthly struggle, but the pandemic has made it worse,” said Mazumdar.While all elective surgeries have been put on hold for the moment, the blood shortage crisis is likely to worsen once the government allows surgeries. In view of the state government’s rule that mass gatherings at one place will not be permitted, all major blood donation camps between March and May have been cancelled. With no alternative in sight, SBTC is planning to organise micro-blood camps in housing societies by adhering to physical distancing measures.“At present, we have a stock of around 10 days. Sometimes, willing donors who want to donate get stopped by police. Though demand for blood in accident cases has decreased owing to the lockdown, patients suffering from cancer, thalassemia and haemophilia are facing a lot of trouble,” said Dr Arun Thorat, in-charge of SBTC, Maharashtra. Two days before the nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 25, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope had appealed to citizens to donate blood in light of a shortage of blood. Blood Donors India, which works with the Union health ministry, said people’s response on social media platforms has decreased by almost 40%. “The crisis is not only in Mumbai but across the country. Earlier, we would get around 15-20 requests from the city, however, the response is far less now as people are scared to even go near hospitals,” said Balu Nayar, founder of the group. Another bottleneck is the lack of manpower to efficiently operate blood banks round the clock. “Many staffers who stay in far-off areas like Nalla Sopara or Virar are not coming to the hospital since the lockdown. As a result, there is not enough staff to arrange blood donation camps,” said a blood donation official from King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital, Parel.In view of the pandemic, it has also become harder for hospital administrations to reach out to patient’s relatives for blood. “If anyone wants to donate blood, they can call on the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) helpline number — 1916 — to get details about their nearest blood bank. All blood banks are given special instruction to main sanitation and physical distancing norms,” said Dr Thorat.With growing awareness about convalescent plasma therapy, people are seeking blood from people who have recovered from Covid-19. As HT reported earlier, convalescent plasma therapy involves injecting patients with blood plasma from recovered patients. In this process, the plasma with antibodies is transfused into an infected person to boost his immunity response to Sars-Cov-2, which causes Covid-19. In the last one month, Blood Donors India has received around 20 such demands from Mumbai. “Once, we get such requests, we tweet about the post and circulate it on social media platforms requesting recovered patients to come forward to donate their blood for plasma therapy,” said Balu Nayar, founder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/80-of-stored-blood-used-up-city-stares-at-acute-shortage/story-oK1EOIZYt69ROyrELYcLKO.html
17-05-2020||Chandigarh||Former Union minister terms Centre’s stimulus package as merely ‘public relation exercise’||Former Union minister Pawan Kumar Bansal on Sunday termed the economic package announced under ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan (Self-reliant India Mission)’ scheme as merely a ‘public relation exercise’.Bansal, in a video press conference, said, “It is wrong to call the package a stimulus as it is only a mirage to mislead people.”“After remaining impassive to the sufferings of people for an inordinately long time and failing to alleviate distress of traders, industry workers, farmers, salaried-class employees and labourers, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on May 12 said that the government will provide a stimulus of ₹ 20 lakh crore to give a boost of self reliance to the economy, which had come to a complete halt due to the covid-19 pandemic. The hope generated to overcome despondency is however short-lived,” said Bansal.There is no immediate relief in the form cash assistance or exemptions to anyone, but only an intent to undertake some programmes in the future, he added.The former Union minister said that scheme without compensatory interest benefit or exemption to trade and industry and cash assistance to the economically poor people cannot be called a stimulus.“In the last four days, it seems that the announcements made by the finance minister lack sensitivity. Instead, it appears that the government is mocking at all sections of society,” added Bansal.Criticising the government for allowing foreign direct investment (FDI) in defence production, Bansal said, “In the name of stimulus and with the avowed objective of self-reliance, permitting more FDI in defence production and opening space exploration to private sector is tantamount to democracy giving way to oligarchy and rendering vulnerable critical security concerns of the country.”Advocating direct transfer of money to poor, Bansal said, “The government will have to spare ₹ 65,000 crore for it, which it hasn’t done as yet. At most, the so-called stimulus is of ₹ 3 lakh crore against the touted ₹ 20 lakh crore.”The National Food Security Act was enacted in 2013 to ensure ration to every Indian. However, as per the finance minister, 8 crore Indians including internal migrants are not covered under this system and are deprived of ration, he said, adding, “For the last two months, these people have not been given any ration.”He suggested that the government should borrow or even print more money, if it is required to help people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/former-union-minister-terms-centre-s-stimulus-package-as-merely-public-relation-exercise/story-pr8MkDZVEEJZcnkjAgdg2L.html
17-05-2020||Mumbai||Students want TISS to waive outstanding fees for the poor||Students at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS), Mumbai, are demanding a waiver of outstanding fees for those belonging to marginal sections like scheduled caste (SC), scheduled tribe (ST), other backward classes (OBC) and economically weaker sections (EWS).For the graduating batch of 2018-20, the final date for paying the tuition fee, dining fee and hostel fee is May 31. However, owing to the Covid-19 pandemic that has affected the means of income of many families, the Progressive Students’ Forum (PSF) at TISS has claimed that students are not in a position to pay their outstanding fees. Students eligible for the Government of India Post-Matric Scholarship (GoI-PMS) have not received their scholarship fee from the central government, said PSF in a letter to the administration.The PSF has, therefore, demanded a complete waiver of outstanding fees of graduating students coming from SC, ST, OBC (NC) and EWS sections of the society. The forum has also sought a partial fee waiver of 50% for the students not falling under these categories but are unable to pay the money due to the lockdown. “No student should be levied a late fine because of the delay in reimbursement of scholarships,” the letter said.A source in the institute’s administration, however, indicated that any kind of waiver — partial or full — was not possible, given the institute’s financial health. The institute has been incurring deficits to the tune of Rs 9 crore annually, according to its annual reports. “The institute is doing its best to raise student aid to support students coming from marginal communities. We have raised over Rs 2.15 crore as student aids in 2019-20. Waiving off outstanding fees would mean waiving off around Rs 80 lakh, which is not feasible for the institute,” said the official.Last year, following protests over the fee issue, the institute had allowed final year students, particularly those from marginal communities, to pay their fees by May 2020 after their GoI-PMS funds had been disbursed, instead of the regular deadline of June 2019.“We will not be able to give any further extensions,” said the source. A final decision from the institute is awaited.Group condemned over webinar An independent student forum at the TISS campus, Democratic Secular Students’ Forum, has come under criticism for holding a webinar on “five things the youth must do to become an intellectual Kshatriya”. The student union of the institute has condemned the webinar and called it “an attempt to sabotage the anti-caste movement” on the campus. Asha Banu, dean student affairs at TISS, said that since the seminar was happening on social media, the institute administration had no jurisdiction over the same. “As long as they are not using the TISS campus or the logo, the administration has no jurisdiction over such activities,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/students-want-tiss-to-waive-outstanding-fees-for-the-poor/story-ceEJgcBlDyC1BC7HHsTnqN.html
17-05-2020||Mumbai||Balanced diet, breathing exercises and Yoga helped boost immunity: Cop who recovered from Covid-19||A sub-inspector, who recovered from Covid-19 on May 7, has come out with an awareness video on his recovery process, stressing on having a balanced diet, coupled with breathing exercises and Yoga. The policeman was posted at JJ Marg, one of the police stations worst-hit by the pandemic. Meanwhile, the Mumbai Police in western suburbs provided vaporisers to their personnel to clean their respiratory tracts and prevent them from getting infected. Over 538 police personnel in the city have been infected with Covid-19 and eight of them have died so far. Sub-inspector Sham Bise, who made the recovery video, had high fever on April 26 and tested positive on May 1. Two days later, his wife also tested positive but was asymptomatic. On May 7, he recovered from the disease at a Thane hospital. In the video he states, “There is nothing to fear. A strong diet and Yoga boosted my immunity. I had a high fever since April 29 and it came down only on May 7. I was admitted to Vedant Hospital in Thane. Every morning, I gargled with warm salty water. I had two eggs and jaggery mixed with nuts every day. I ate dry fruits like almond, cashew nuts and dates. Before sleeping at night, I used to drink hot milk with turmeric, followed by warm water. I used to start my day with Yoga exercises like Pranayam and Kapalbharti to increase my breathing capacity.”The total number of infected police personnel at JJ Marg station in south Mumbai till Sunday rose to 59, of which 10 have recovered. This includes 14 personnel from the State Reserve Police Force (SRPF). Sangramsinh Nishandar, deputy commissioner of police, zone 1 confirmed the development.Senior police officers in the western suburbs (Bandra to Jogeshwari) have distributed steam vaporisers to their personnel. The policemen have been asked to use them twice a day to keep their respiratory tracts clean. “It is a good initiative. But it is also important to take other safety measures like using PPE kits and maintaining social distancing,” said Dr SM Patil, police surgeon. Ankit Goyal, DCP, zone 10 said “In my zone, we gave vaporisers to almost everyone. Some of them were bought from additional commissioner of police’s (welfare) fund while others paid for it from their pocket.” Four police personnel, including an assistant commissioner of police (ACP) from Thane commissionerate, tested positive of Covid-19 on Sunday. The 38-year-old ACP was posted at the administration department of the Thane commissionerate headquarters. The other police personnel were a 32-year-old police officer and two constables, from Wagale Estate and Kopri police stations respectively. The ACP’s residential complex in Thane has been sealed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/balanced-diet-breathing-exercises-and-yoga-helped-boost-immunity-cop-who-recovered-from-covid-19/story-CZMh1Fy0YofHfBYzOsbtGL.html
17-05-2020||Mumbai||Ola, Uber to ferry passengers to Mumbai Central||Cab aggregators, Ola and Uber, started service of ferrying train passengers to and from Mumbai Central railway station on Saturday. The movement of passengers has been included in essential services. The facility is only available in Mumbai and passengers need to have valid e-tickets to avail the cabs. The service will be provided to passengers heading towards Mumbai Central and those who have reached Mumbai via train and are heading to their homes.The services will not be available for passengers who want to travel outstation from the city or anyone who wants to reach the station from outside the city.“Uber Essential is enabling critical travel to locations such as hospitals and railway stations in Mumbai,” said an Uber spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ola-uber-to-ferry-passengers-to-mumbai-central/story-WhJQFBeYXcHZ9xVvNb4WtO.html
17-05-2020||Mumbai||Indians stuck in Thailand seek government to operate more rescue flights||Hundreds of Indians stranded in Thailand, who are finding it difficult to survive, have appealed the central government to operate repatriate flights for those wanting to return to India, particularly Mumbai. The second phase of the Vande Bharat mission that commenced on Saturday has just one flight scheduled to fly between Bangkok and Delhi. No other flight has been scheduled to bring back Indians wanting to return to Mumbai, Kolkata, Kerala and Chennai. Speaking to these stranded Indians in Bangkok, HT learnt that most have exhausted their finances, hence have no money to pay for their hotel stay and have been asked by the Indian embassy to wait for a month to be able to fly back to Mumbai and other places.Vijay Kale, a marine engineer, couldn’t stop his tears while narrating his current situation. He said, “I am residing in a private room since the lockdown and I am not able to live here anymore due to exorbitant rents. Despite registering myself to be evacuated, I have not received any help. The embassy here is providing dry ration which is of no use to me as I am staying in a hotel room.The Indian embassy in Thailand, on April 7, had asked all the stranded Indians to register themselves so that they could be flown back in the repatriation flights. However, in the first phase of the Vande Bharat mission that commenced on April 8, no flight was scheduled between the two countries.In the second phase too, the only flight from Bangkok to India will be operated on May 20 between Bangkok and Delhi. Another stranded passenger, Rahul Mahajan, said, “My friend and I used to work here, but because of the current situation, we got laid off by the company. My wife is pregnant and is expected to deliver by June 10. She is alone in Pune. I request the government to operate flights back to India.”A Kerala-based senior citizen too appealed to the government to operate flights and help them urgently. Jigishaben Shah, a tour operator from Gujarat, said, “I had come here on February 17 and was to return on March 29, but now I have started selling my ornaments to pay rent.”Kishorraje Nimbalkar, secretary, relief and rehabilitation, said, “I am not aware of any such demand for the permission that has come to us. Generally calls in such cases are taken by the ministry of external affairs.”A response from MEA was still awaited at the time of going to the press.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/indians-stuck-in-thailand-seek-government-to-operate-more-repatriate-flights/story-UGwaxV0bYnrhrIXio3dhsK.html
17-05-2020||Chandigarh||After 65% jump in IT investments last fiscal, Covid-19 may hit growth in Punjab this year||Before the coronavirus pandemic led to a nationwide lockdown and brought business activity to a grinding halt two months ago, Punjab saw a 65% jump in investments in the information technology (IT) and IT-enabled services (ITeS) in the financial year 2019-20.The state received investments worth Rs 605 crore in the sector in the year gone by as compared to Rs 365 crore during 2018-19. Sweden-based Target EveryOne IT Private Limited, Aeren IT Solutions, Vertex Infosoft Solutions, Mark Software Systems, Entella Private Limited, Miran Informatics and EON Infotech are among the firms, including some start-ups, that have set up their software development units and IT services facilities in the state.Invest Punjab chief executive officer Rajat Agarwal said the bulk of the fresh investment, which is estimated to generate 4,600 additional jobs for IT professionals, has been made in the Sahibzada Ajit Singh Nagar district (earlier known as Mohali). “Aggressive policy advocacy and proactive follow up with the investors helped. Also, special incentives have been given over and above the non-thrust sectors to IT, ITeS, and Electronics System Design and Manufacturing (ESDM) industry to promote this sector,” he said. While several of these IT companies have already started their operations, others are expected to come on stream soon. The investments in the IT sector have grown 400% in the past two years, going up from Rs 121.49 crore in 2017-18 to Rs 605 crore last year. Though the IT sector, particularly software service providers, has shown tremendous resilience in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak, the outlook for growth and investments in the current year does not appear to be encouraging.Crisil, a domestic rating agency, recently said the sector is staring at revenue growth sliding to a decadal low of up to 2% and narrowing margins due to the global pandemic. “The companies will lose out on new deals which will compromise future revenues,” the agency said in a report. An IT solutions firm based out of SAS Nagar, which also has operations in the USA and Europe, is already feeling the impact as its negotiations that were at an advanced stage with two big prospective overseas clients have gone into cold storage now.IT sector experts say there are many variables because no one knows for how long the lockdown will continue. “Then, things will also depend on the global scenario, how overseas clients are doing, and the cash flow situation,” they say. A large number of customers of IT services companies in the state are in the USA and Europe, which are among the most-affected regions.However, these companies, particularly software service providers, have made a quick transition to remote working to serve their existing clients that include some of the biggest names in the airline, banking, insurance, and other businesses. Software Technology Parks of India (STPI), Mohali, additional director Ajay Prasad Shrivastava said there has not been much impact on IT and ITeS sector in the region so far because the companies were quick to adapt to work from home to curtail the spread of coronavirus. “Also, there are not many hardware companies in the region. But how things pan out from here for different IT services firms will depend on the sectors in which they operate,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/after-65-jump-in-it-investments-last-fiscal-covid-19-may-hit-growth-in-punjab-this-year/story-HaS5LWKRHsClzgeFS7G42H.html
17-05-2020||Mumbai||ATS constable dies of fever, Covid report awaited||A 45-year-old constable attached to the Nagpada unit of the Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) died on Sunday after suffering from fever for 10 days. He was also getting treated for typhoid.The Covid-19 test report of the deceased is yet to come, said Deven Bharti, ATS chief and additional director general of police. The incident has led to panic among the ATS staff. The constable was suffering from fever and cough for about two weeks. Although he was sanctioned a leave for 14 days to seek treatment, he continued to go to office, said a police officer. The deceased lived in police quarters, near the ATS unit. The Nagpada police station is also in the same compound. “The constable’s family used to supply tiffins to most of the policemen at ATS headquarters, ATS Nagpada unit, Nagpada police station and other policemen posted in nearby areas. During his leave, he used to come to the office to deliver tiffins,” said an officer, on condition of anonymity. “His condition worsened on Saturday evening. Around 6am on Sunday he was taken to BYL Nair Hospital and was later shifted to Bhatia Hospital, where they declared him dead before admission,” added the officer. A team of doctors visited the ATS headquarters and conducted tests on several officers on Sunday. Another team will visit the Nagpada unit on Monday to conduct tests on the remaining policemen who were in touch with the constable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ats-constable-dies-of-fever-covid-report-awaited/story-0kjCKNsyUmckdBVPUgtmZI.html
17-05-2020||City||Congress leader Kamaljit Singh Karwal gets threat over phone ‘not to go against MLA Simarjit Singh Bains’||Congress leader Kamaljit Singh Karwal said he received a threat over phone from a gangster on Sunday evening.According to Karwal, the caller, who claimed himself to be ‘gangster Ladla’, threatened him not to go against Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) chief and MLA from Atam Park constituency Simarjit Singh Bains. Karwal has lodged a complaint with commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal in this regard.Karwal said the call from an unknown number appeared to be from some foreign country. The caller claimed he was a gangster and his name was Ladla. “The caller asked me in a threatening tone, ‘Tera Bains naal ki rola hai’ (What is the controversy between you and Bains,” he said, and added that he told the caller it would be better if he asked Bains about it instead of him.“The caller again threatened me saying ‘jyada syana na bann’ (don’t try to be over smart). I also replied in the same tone and asked him to be in his limits,” Karwal added. He said after 33 seconds, the caller disconnected the call and never called again.Karwal said, “I know Bains well and he cannot indulge in such cheap tactics. It could be someone of his family members, a follower or a sympathiser behind the call, but if he (Bains) did this, I want to tell him that I don’t care about such threats.”Despite repeated attempts, Bains was not contacted as his mobile phone was found switched off. Friends-turned-foes Karwal and Bains are on a war of words since they have parted their ways. Before joining the Congress, Karwal was an LIP councillor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/congress-leader-kamaljit-singh-karwal-gets-threat-over-phone-not-to-go-against-mla-simarjit-singh-bains/story-RVrIXiK7IM0oWIlrxKPsCL.html
17-05-2020||Chandigarh||Cong MLA Pargat demands CLP meet to review Capt govt’s 3-year performance||Ruling Congress MLA (Jalandhar Cantonment) Pargat Singh said on Sunday that Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh or party’s state unit president Sunil Jakhar should call the meeting of Congress Legislature Party (CLP) to review the state government’s performance in the last three years. In a press conference in Jalandhar, the former hockey Olympian said the CLP meeting was the need of the hour to identify the government’s shortcomings and address them since the MLAs will have to face the people in the 2022 assembly polls. “We will have to tell people as what actions were taken by the government with regards to our core pre-poll issues like power purchase agreement (PPA), Bargari sacrilege, mining and other mafia. “These issues can’t be suppressed under the Covid-19 crisis which will stay here. People gave full mandate to the Congress and now we have to tell them what is stopping us from take pro-public decisions,” the MLA added. “We had promised to create a liquor corporation on the lines of states like Tamil Naidu which would help the state government earn revenue up to ₹30,000 crore. “Who stopped us from creating the corporation even as former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu took the matter in the cabinet meeting?” Pargat quesstioned.He also questioned as why Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal was silent at a time when the central government was snatching the rights of the states by centralising everything. “The Akali Dal always stood for more rights to states but now they are silent due to their vested interests,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cong-mla-pargat-demands-clp-meet-to-review-capt-govt-s-3-year-performance/story-TSh26Buz5xUGzn9L2oUuVK.html
17-05-2020||City||Delay in ambulance service: PMC serves show-cause notice to PMC officials, BVG manager||PUNE Following the death of a 54-year-old man from Nana peth while waiting for an ambulance on Thursday, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has served a show-cause notice to three authorities including the PMC ward officer, zonal officer and manager of the BVG group, a private company which manages the ambulance service run by the state.Around Thursday midnight, Yeshudas Moti Francis, 54, collapsed outside a public toilet in his colony in Nana peth. His family had installed a chair outside the tin containment seal right outside the lane where their house is located. However, the 108 ambulance failed to arrive even after repeated phone calls, according to family members. The ambulance service is run by the state government of Maharashtra and is managed by the BVG group, a private company.“We have issued notices to three authorities and sought a detailed response on why did the ambulance not report. Action will be taken based on their response,” said PMC Commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad.According to Dr Dnyaneshwar Shelke of BVG’s Emergency Medical Service (EMS) they have not received any show-cause notice. “I am hearing this information form you (HT),” he said.“A person named Sofian had called and he said that the person is dead. As per protocol of 108, the ambulance was not dispatched as they wanted a hearse and the doctor told them that 108 does not provide hearses,” said Dr Shelke.“The second call was from a police officer and he said there was an unknown unconscious person. The ambulance reached the location thinking it is a separate patient. The location of the ambulance is on record. They called the police, but could not connect or find them. The ambulance stayed there for some time before returning,” said Dr Shelke.“We are serving patients all over the state. So far we have served 71,000 corona patients - either suspected or positive. Why will we refuse service?” he added.Havaldar Deepak Tatey and Hawaldar Dhanaji Gophane of Samarth police station were with the family till the end and finally stopped a vehicle carrier tempo which took Francis to Sassoon General Hospital around 4 am on Friday.“We have called for call recording from 108 service. We are checking there was misinformation from either of the sides. Once we have the recordings from the ambulance service, we will ask the police what had happened,” said Nitin Udas, deputy commissioner, PMC.The PMC officials have, however, not contacted the family.“Some news was published that the police had not helped us. So the only visit we got was from the police asking us why we had said so. We assured them that we had not said anything of that sort,” said Shobha Francis, wife of the deceased man.The family is reeling from the loss and are worried about the financial future that awaits them post the pandemic is over.The family now comprises of two sisters of the deceased man, his wife and his son, Max Francis, 23, who works as an office boy at a local private company.“First the police came, then we went to the cemetery to mark the third day since his death. And now we are sitting at home,” said Shobha.The police have also agreed that the ambulance service had caused the delay and had a history of such instances in the past two months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delay-in-ambulance-service-pmc-serves-show-cause-notice-to-pmc-officials-bvg-manager/story-wWZY8gMbOdRDkiYBWRgD0O.html
17-05-2020||Mumbai||Don’t transfer surplus teachers in red zones: Teachers body||With uncertainty around the re-opening of schools post lockdown and anticipating poor attendance of students, teachers from the state have now requested the education department to not declare additional teachers as surplus in schools across 14 red zones in the state. “This year aided schools in the state have not been able to conduct their admissions due to the Covid-19 outbreak, and schools had to close before the academic year formally ended. With this and the resultant migration, many schools might see poor enrolments even after they start operations post-lockdown. If teachers are considered “surplus” based on this, it would be unfair. We have asked the government to stay the system for the academic year 2020-21,” said Anil Bornare, coordinator for BJP teachers cell. While several deputy directorates in the state have also written to the education department requesting that teachers in red zones be exempted from the rule for a year, an official from the department said that an official decision was yet to be taken.As per the norms of the department, if a school has more teachers than the student-teacher ratio of 30:1 per class, appointments of such surplus teachers are cancelled and they are transferred to other schools with vacancies. The department is currently providing online learning material to students and is meanwhile coming up with possible plans for reopening after the lockdown is lifted. It is likely that each region would have different reopening schedules depending on the situation at the local level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/don-t-transfer-surplus-teachers-in-red-zones-teachers-body/story-7SDXHB2jn2JGR2Q8XHwGYJ.html
17-05-2020||Mumbai||2 lakh in city are in home quarantine; BMC says result of finding contacts||The number of citizens who are home quarantined in the city has crossed two lakh mark in less than a month of crossing the one lakh mark in the last week of April, states the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) data. The number of citizens under home quarantine was 10,968 on April 6, followed by 43,249 on April 15, 57,700 on April 17, and 92,112 on April 23. It crossed the one lakh mark by the end of April. According to BMC data, as of May 13, the number of citizens who have been under home quarantine has reached 2,34,829 followed by 95,154 completing their quarantine period.As of May 13, the BMC had traced around 3,29,982 contacts of 15,581 positive patients of which 2,70,459 were low-risk contacts, and 59,524 were high-risk contacts.Around 3,400 patients who have tested positive for coronavirus have been tested positive owing to contact tracing. Majority of the those who are advised to be home quarantined are low-risk contacts of those tested positive, followed by those who are high-risk contacts of positive patients but are asymptomatic.A BMC official said, “With the numbers of positive cases increasing, we also need to have more contacts traced for home quarantine. The situation would be worrying if there was no substantial growth.” The Central government’s team that has visited the city twice has also asked the BMC to increase quarantine facilities for Dharavi. Newly appointed municipal commissioner Iqbal Chahal had also stressed on more contact tracing and quarantining.Daksha Shah, deputy executive health officer, BMC had earlier said, “We are identifying more and more citizens for home quarantine due to which the number has increased.” Further as per BMC data till May 13, the number of citizens who have been screened at fever clinics has increased to 18,360. Around 1,906 were screened till April 10 and 5,836 citizens were screened till April 24.Meanwhile, BMC anticipates that in the worst-case scenario, Mumbai will be reaching its peak by June end||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2-lakh-in-city-are-in-home-quarantine-bmc-says-result-of-finding-contacts/story-B91w2GiCU5seLAQlfsOgjI.html
17-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 35th death, 24 new cases||A six-year-old boy died and 24 tested positive for coronavirus in Punjab on Sunday. The state reported its 35th death when a six-year-old boy, a resident of Haibowal Kalan in Ludhiana, succumbed to the virus in Ludhiana. He was suffering from hepatitis-C was rushed to the civil hospital from where doctors referred him to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala.Despite undergoing treatment there for eight days, his health deteriorated, after which he was referred to PGIMER, Chandigarh, where his report came positive. He died late on Saturday night, civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said. Besides, 23 persons, including 13 Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel, two ward attendants of civil hospital and four contacts of tyre factory employee tested positive of Covid-19 in Ludhiana on Sunday. The RPF employees will not be added to Punjab tally.Besides, four relatives of two patients working in Hindustan Tyres also tested positive.Besides, a 14-year-old girl, a resident of Guru Nanak Nagar, and a 19-year-old boy from New Kundan Puri have tested positive. Two railway employees, a loco pilot, a trackman, who are living in Railway colony number 8, also tested positive for the virus.5 FRESH CASES IN SBS NAGARFive fresh cases have been reported in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar (SBS Nagar) and one in Jalandhar on Sunday. SBS Nagar civil surgeon Dr Rajinder Prasad Bhatia said all five patients, including two Dubai-returned persons, were isolated at Guru Nanak Mission Hospital at Dhahan Kaleran village in Banga sub-division. He said two of the five patients, who tested positive, belong to Amritsar but they had come to Manderan village of SBS Nagar. “We requested state nodal officer to count these two patients in the Amritsar tally,” he said. Jalandhar nodal officer for Covid-19 Dr TP Singh said with a fresh positive case, the district’s tally has reached 212, including six deaths. Meanwhile, eight patients have been cured of the virus and discharged in SBS Nagar. In Jalandhar, nine patients were discharged. 4 NANDED PILGRIMS TEST POSITIVE IN FARIDKOTFour persons, including a woman, who had visited Takht Sri Hazur Sahib in Nanded, Maharashtra, tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the district’s count to 60. Civil surgeon Dr Rajinder Kumar said the patients have been admitted to the isolation ward of Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital. “The patients were already in a quarantine centre and are asymptomatic. All of them are residents of Sandhwan village in Kotkapura sub-division,” he said.3 DUBAI-RETURNEES TEST POSITIVE IN AMRITSARThree people, who had returned to Amritsar from Dubai in a special flight under the Vande Bharat Mission on May 13, tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday, Amritsar civil surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore said.As many as 177 Indians were brought back, who had been stranded in Dubai during the coronavirus pandemic, in the Air India Express flight which landed at Shri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport on May 13.As per officials, 27 people out of the 177 belonged to Amritsar and were quarantined by health department in quarantine centres.“After the Dubai-returnees had reached Amritsar, the health department took their swabs for testing. Of the 27 people, three were tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. They are stable and have been admitted to isolation ward of Government Medical Cllege and Hospital, Amritsar, Dr Kishore said.With this, the district has reported 304 cases so far. 23 MORE CURED IN RUPNAGAR Twenty-three persons of Rupnagar district, who were tested positive for Covid-19, have recovered and were discharged from Gian Sagar Medical College and Hospital, Banur, where they were undergoing treatment.Rupnagar deputy commissioner Sonali Giri said that these persons would be home quarantined for seven days.With this the number of active Covid-19 cases in Rupnagar district has come down to 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-reports-35th-death-24-new-cases/story-NvvpE1p0CtiGUBr9krpFJL.html
17-05-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai records 11K more cases during 3rd phase of lockdown||The city saw 11,350 more Covid-19 cases and 391 deaths during the third lockdown from May 4 to May 17, according to data from the state health ministry. Maharashtra saw 20,079 cases with 630 fatalities during the same period. At the end of the second lockdown, on May 3, the cases in Mumbai stood at 8,800, with 343 deaths. On the last day of the third lockdown on Sunday, Mumbai saw 1,595 cases, the highest single-day spike, which took the total to 20,150, with 734 deaths. However, civic authorities said of the new cases, 590 tested positive between May 10 and 14, which was reported by the labs on the ICMR portal and included in Sunday’s report. Maharashtra’s case count was 12,974 with 548 deaths on May 3, which went up to 33,053 with 1,198 deaths on May 17.Mumbai’s Dharavi reported 44 new cases on Sunday, taking the count of coronavirus patients to 1,242. According to data from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Sunday evening, 56 Covid-19 patients have died in Dharavi so far.The civic health department feels the situation would have worsened without the lockdown. Daksha Shah, deputy director health department of BMC, said, “The basic principle behind the lockdown is to break the chain of the virus. It is not the only solution to deal with the coronavirus. Without it, the scenario could have been far worse. Cases are rising against increased testing, but our doubling rate is improving. From last week, it has been between 11 and 12, better than last month’s nine.”Till May 16, 4,806 people have recovered and have been discharged. In the past one week, the city has witnessed a huge jump in the cured category.BMC, has decided to increase the bed capacity to one lakh, in view of the rising numbers, said civic commissioner IS Chahal on Sunday. “BMC has increased the bed capacity to 50,000.We will soon achieve the capacity of one lakh beds,” Chahal told reporters.The parking facility near the Mumbai airport can be used to put 50,000 beds. Two parking lots near Santacruz and Breach Candy Hospital would be used to put up beds for quarantine.There are around 690 containment zones in the city. “There were some 1,500 buildings where one or two persons tested positive, but the entire 10-15 storey structure was declared a containment zone, requiring more police staff. So we changed the definition from the entire building to the floor and its sanitisation will be undertaken by the civic body. It has reduced the requirement of police and they have been deployed at other places,” said Chahal.The ambulance strength has been increased to 350 from 80. Moreover, BMC has brought 50 doctors from Wardha and 100 more from Beed will join the civic staff soon. At least 2,000 doctors have committed to volunteer. On Sunday, in a surprise visit, the civic commissioner reviewed the measures taken by the civic body at Sion hospital, Shivajinagar and Govandi, and also discussed various issues with Sion hospital staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-records-11k-more-cases-during-3rd-phase-of-lockdown/story-7eJavAKls1NXyShbbRLrtO.html
17-05-2020||Chandigarh||In Covid battle, Punjab ITI girl students sewing masks for frontline warriors, needy||Shiv Kumari, 18, a student at Industrial Training Institute (ITI Women), Ghumar Mandi, in Ludhiana has sewed around 2,500 masks in a little over past one month for the frontline warriors battling the Covid-19 pandemic and those living in slum areas. She is among over 4,600 girl students of 78 ITIs in the state who have made more than 10 lakh four-layered washable masks from their homes during this period. The state directorate of technical education and industrial training is arranging for the raw material either through the administration or with contributions by the ITI staff, residents, NGOs and industrialists. The masks are provided to the district administrations, healthcare workers, municipal corporation employees, police, asha and anganwadi workers, panchayats, farmers, migrant labourers.“I learned to make mask from my institute teacher. Also, my father motivated me to contribute for the social cause. Initially, I was able to make 30-40 masks daily but now I can fabricate more than 80 in a day,” says Kumari who is pursuing embroidery course at the institute. Beant Kaur, a student at ITI (Women), Jagraon, says, “I decided to make masks after I was encouraged by the teachers and principal of the ITI.”Mother of two joins the causeCharanjeet Kaur, a first-year student of ITI, Bathinda, devotes about four hours a day at her one-room house at Harbans Nagar locality for stitching masks. The cloth to make masks is being provided by State Bank of India officials for free distributions.A mother of two school-going children, she is among 35 ITI students from the district who have made about 20,000 masks.“During the lockdown, our ITI instructor Jaswinder Kaur held online classes on mask-making. I also learnt about sewing masks from YouTube videos,” says Charanjeet.Sakshi Taak, a former student of the institute, is assisted by her mother, sister and neighbours in making of masks.Sakshi’s father is an employee at the local ITI and their colony community started with making masks for themselves.“As most of the women in our colony are expert in sewing, they pooled money and started distributing the masks to vegetable vendors. Then, officials of SBI and some NGOs approached the ITI faculty members for making masks as a community service,” she adds.‘Teachers available on phone to help us’Neha, a student of Government Institute of Garments Technology (GIGT), Amritsar, says, “We did not have experience of mask-making. Our teachers first made a video of how to make a mask and shared it to us through WhatsApp. They remain available on phone to attend to our queries.”“If I work for 4-5 hours, I make 30-40 quality masks in a day. We have met first target and in case need arises in future, we are ready to work for noble cause”, added Neha, a resident of Guru Nanak Pura locality.“Apart from stitching masks assigned by the institute, I also got opportunity to prepare same for the residents of my locality. For example, the local gurdwara management provided me fabric for making masks which were distributed to the needy in the area. I also used the fabric I had at home,” she adds.Institute principal Jatinder Singh, who played an active role in facilitating the students in the cause, says, “Around 100 girls from the institute have stitched 28,000 masks. Five staff members and two volunteers also made their contribution.”“The district administration provided us most of the cotton fabric for making the masks. We could not provide fabric to the students who live in distant villages, but we asked them to contribute at village level,” he added.Savita Bawa, an instructor, says, “Our principal provided us electric cutter to cut the fabric. We prepared bundles of fabric after cutting it at the institute. We delivered these bundles with thread and needles at the doorsteps of the students.”Additional director (directorate of technical education and industrial training) Daljit Kaur Sidhu, said, “For the first two weeks, over 2,200 ITI girl students stitched 2.23 lakh masks. Thereafter, the department motivated more students to contribute for the cause and deputed nodal officers in every district for better coordination. The preparation of masks by students was monitored regularly.” Work recognised nationallyTo appreciate the initiative taken up by the ITIs across India, the Union ministry for skill development and entrepreneurship held a video conference with principals and students of 28 ITIs recently. Of the 28 ITIs, six were from Punjab. The state department has recommended the names of six ITI principals (Patiala, Rajpura, Raiya, Amritsar, Moga and Mohali) for motivating the students to stitch masks. The department has also sent names of eight students who made maximum masks in the last 32 days to the ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/in-covid-battle-punjab-iti-girl-students-sewing-masks-for-frontline-warriors-needy/story-15mPM7pkoBbeD9OHPPJzmO.html
17-05-2020||Mumbai||BMC takes U-turn on Wankhede stadium quarantine facility||Three days after the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had written a letter to the Maharashtra Cricket Association (MCA) asking them to handover Wankhede stadium for it to be converted into a Covid quarantine facility, the civic body has now clarified that it is not going to take over the stadium, saying that the open ground will not be useful for the purpose during the monsoon season.On Sunday, municipal commissioner IS Chahal said, “I am surprised by reading news about a quarantine facility centre at the stadium. We are not taking over the cricket stadium or any other open space because, in Mumbai, it sometimes rains continuously for a week. It will not be useful at all for the administration to take care of people there.”Considering the outbreak of the novel coronavirus in the city, on May 14, assistant commissioner of A ward, Chanda Jadhav, had written a letter to MCA asking them to hand over the stadium temporarily, under the guidelines issued by the BMC commissioner as per the Epidemic Act 1897. The letter further stated that the stadium will be used for emergency staff of BMC and also to quarantine asymptomatic Covid-19 patients.After news of the letter, several residents associations from Marine Drive and neighbouring areas opposed BMC’s move to set up a quarantine facility at Wankhede stadium. Raj Purohit, former Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA from the area, wrote a letter to the BMC chief on Saturday and demanded that the civic body reconsider its decision to set up quarantine centre at the stadium. It was said that residents threatened to protest if BMC went ahead with its plan.BMC’s u-turn on the plan follows on the heels of a tweet by Shiv Sena leader and minister Aditya Thackeray which pointed out the challenges of Covid centres during monsoon.Thackeray’s tweet was in response to Sena leader Sanjay Raut’s tweet, supporting BMC’s move to take over Wankhede Stadium. Raut had suggested making a similar facility at nearby Brabourne stadium as well.Despite its claims about monsoon issues for facilities set up on open grounds, Chahal announced that an 800-bed facility set up at the MMRDA ground in Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC) will be operational from Monday and appointment of staff is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-takes-u-turn-on-wankhede-stadium-quarantine-facility/story-NPFXLWFcPJDOxbfP16Qo8L.html
17-05-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government, not Centre funded migrant travel: Anil Deshmukh||Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh has trained his guns at Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman for her statement that the Central government bore 85%of the train fare of migrants travelling back to their home states. Deshmukh said that the entire fare is being borne by the state government, which has sent 2.92 lakh migrants in 224 trains to their respective states.Deshmukh, who spoke to a news agency on Sunday, said that the Union finance minister’s claim was surprising. “She has said that 85% of the burden of fare for trains carrying migrants to various states has been borne by the Central government. It is not true. After migrants were forced to bear the entire fare initially, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray requested the Centre to bear the entire cost instead,” he said. “Since the Centre did not respond, the state government made provision of ₹55 crore from the chief minister’s contingency fund. We would not hesitate to allocate more if needed,” Deshmukh added.The home minister said that other states have been hesitant about accepting their citizens who are stuck in Maharashtra. It was only after the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar and Thackeray spoke to the chief ministers of West Bengal and Bihar, the trains carrying migrants to these states started plying. The second train to West Bengal departed on Sunday, against the need of at least 10 trains per day.“Besides the migrants sent via rail, we sent more than one lakh migrants in 11,500 state transport buses to various states. We will need 700-800 special Shramik trains to transport the remaining stranded migrants. We are ready to pay if the Indian Railways is ready to make the trains available. The slow response from other states is posing a hurdle. We have at least 20 lakh migrants eager to go to their home states, but we are getting permissions for only 10% of the trains required,” Deshmukh said.Additionally, the minister confirmed that the Centre has positively responded to Maharashtra government’s demand for deploying Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) to assist the Maharashtra Police which has been burdened with the workload. He said that nine companies (about 100 personnel each) of CAPF have arrived and have been deployed in various parts of the state, including Mumbai and Pune — the cities worst affected by Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-not-centre-funded-migrant-travel-anil-deshmukh/story-x9da0xqUmhwzhBzPzJi6qJ.html
17-05-2020||City||Bihar deputy CM welcomes Centre’s move to raise borrowing limit of states to 5% from 3%||PATNA Bihar’s deputy chief minister cum finance minister Sushil Kumar Modi on Sunday welcomed Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s announcement of increasing the borrowing cap of states from 3% to 5% of the state gross domestic product( SGDP), saying it would fulfil fiscal needs of the states.“At a time, when Bihar’s revenue has declined drastically following lockdown with the state earning only 14% of revenue in month of April this year as against corresponding period last year, the increase in borrowing limit is the only alternative to meet the resource gap. We had requested the Centre to increase the borrowing limit and it has been fulfilled,” said Modi.He said the increase in borrowing limit would help the state to take additional Rs 12,922 crore as loans as against the existing limit of Rs 39,341 crore. In addition to that, Modi said the government can take additional Rs 3,230 crore at the rate of 0.5% without any condition. On the states having used only 14% of the borrowing limit with 86% remaining unutilized, the finance minister said the state would take more loans as per need after assessing the fiscal situation and utilise the increase in borrowing limit.He said the announcement of allocation of additional Rs 40,000 crore in MGNREGA would benefit Bihar for creating more employment opportunities for migrants returning home.“ We have already issued 2.17 lakh new job cards and 3.50 lakh schemes are under implementation . Bihar has already Rs 1,124 crore as allocation under MGNREGA in month of April and the state is expecting allocation of Rs 2,535 as allocation under the job guarantee scheme,” he said.Modi also praised the focus of financial package on online education and the health sector. “ The decision of opening infectious disease hospitals in each district and public health labs at block level will facilitate in advanced health care system,” he said. “ In totality, this package is not only an interim assistance but would prove as a milestone in giving a big boost to the infrastructure and strengthening the economy in the long term,” Modi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bihar-deputy-cm-welcomes-centre-s-move-to-raise-borrowing-limit-of-states-to-5-from-3/story-ZXCU1dIYmbR2XluCtLcfFJ.html
17-05-2020||City||99 migrants jump off train near Ara, caught||ARA As many as 99 migrant workers on board a Shramik Special train going from Dadri in UP to Katihar allegedly jumped off the train after pulling chains near Ara railway station on Sunday but were chased and caught by Railway Police Force personnel.Confirming the incident, RPF inspector Shambhunath Ram said the train had no scheduled stoppage at Ara but the passengers, who were of Bhojpur and nearby districts, pulled the chain to stop the train and jumped off. He said all 99 were caught and produced before a medical team and district administration officials, which was already there to screen migrant workers who had arrived at Ara station minutes earlier by another Shramik Special train from Surat.The 99 passengers were screened and sent to their destinations by buses. Ara station manager B K Pandey said the 04132 train (from which passengers tried to escape) had to halt here because of the incident from 3.10 pm to 3.25 pm before resuming its onward journey to Katihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/99-migrants-jump-off-train-near-ara-caught/story-X43oGpNS1SBn2beF0jTwIN.html
17-05-2020||Patna||Bihar reports 8th Covid death, state tally touches 1,284||A 55-year-old resident of Khagaria who returned from Mumbai, died due to coronavirus on May 15, in what was the first reported death of a migrant labourer due to Sars-CoV-2 in the state, and the eighth so far to the virus in Bihar, as the number of cases swelled to 1,284, after 106 people tested positive for the pandemic Sunday.Patna reported a sharp spike in case, after 57 people, including 21 police personnel of the Bihar Military Police (BMP-14) tested positive from Khajpura locality. Two others reported positive from RPS More and one each from Agamkuan and Patel Nagar localities in the heart of the state capital. Seventeen other cases were reported from Barh, 12 from Athmalgola, two from Belchhi and one from Fatuha, satellite townships of Patna.Besides Patna, other cases were reported from Madhubani (16), Rohtas (14), Muzaffarpur (5), Arwal, Buxar, East Champaran (3 each), Kaimur (2) and one each from Sitamarhi, Nalanda and Saran.Among those testing positive from Patna on Sunday were two nurses — one each of the Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NMCH) and another from the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS), said Dr Ajay Kumar Sinha, medical nodal officer, NMCH.Among frontline health workers, a doctor from Nalanda, six health personnel, including four nurses from the IGIMS, and two nurses from the NMCH have so far tested positive for Covid-19, said sources.The health department, despite persistent requests, had, however, not provided a breakup of frontline healthworkers testing positive for Sars-CoV-2 in the state so far.As for the migrant’s death, Bihar’s principal secretary, health, Sanjay Kumar shared the information through a tweet on Sunday, even as health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh did not mention about it at the customary government briefing on Sunday.The deceased, who was initially taken to the block quarantine centre at the Sharda Gayatri College, Maheshkoot, after reaching Khagaria from Mumbai via Saharsa on May 13, had complained of breathlessness the following day. He was rushed to the referral hospital, Gogri, within two hours of complaining about breathlessness to the medical team on May 14. He even showed signs of recovery, but passed away in the wee hours of May 15, said the doctor’s death report that Kumar had shared through a tweet.The doctor mentioned “cardio-pulmonary arrest” as the cause of death.Diabetic for the past two years, the deceased and his wife were tested for Covid-19 and both were found to be positive on May 16. The deceased had travelled with his wife and grandson by a Shramik Special train from Mumbai on May 11.“The man had shared space with 15 persons at the block quarantine centre. All of them will now be tested for Covid-19. The place is being sanitized,” said Khagaria district magistrate Alok Ranjan Ghosh.Ninety-nine samples of the 2,066 tested among the 3.53 lakh migrants at block quarantine centres had tested positive for Covid-19. Around 4.8% of the migrants have tested positive as compared to their samples tested (2,066), based on a set pattern of testing, said Singh.A total of 481 migrant workers of whom 423 had returned to the state after May 3, had so far tested positive for coronavirus, Singh had said on Saturday.Around 2.60% people in the state had tested positive for the virus so far as compared to the total samples (45,752) tested so far, he added.The recent spike in the number of positive cases of the virus was due to testing of migrants, contacts of Covid-19 cases and people who were symptomatic, added Singh.Over four lakh migrant workers from different parts of the country had reached Bihar by 272 Shramik Special trains so far this month. Another 438 special trains are in the pipeline to get all migrants who wanted to return to their home state, said Anupam Kumar, secretary, information and public relations department, during the media briefing.He said the figures on the total count of migrants expected to come to Bihar by these trains were being calculated.Forty-three trains, carrying 69,650 passengers had been planned to reach Bihar on Monday. Of them, eight pairs of trains would ply within the state from Kaimur, Gopalganj and Danpaur, he added.Meanwhile, 22 Covid-19 patients had recovered during the past 24 hours and discharged from different health facilities, taking the total number of people to have been cured from the disease so far in the state to 475.As of Sunday, Patna had surpassed Munger (125 cases) and topped with 163 cases. Rohtas reported 91 cases, followed by Nalanda (68), Buxar (62), Begusarai (54), Madhubani (69), Siwan (45), Khagaria (43), Kaimur (36), Bhagalpur (38), Bhojpur (36), Nawada (35), Banka, Gopalganj (32 each), Purnea (29), Jehanabad (27), West Champaran (25), Aurangabad (22), Sheikhpura (21), Muzaffarpur (25), Kaitihar (17), Darbhanga, Madhepura (16), East Champaran (19), Samastipur (15), Lakhisarai (14), Saharsa (13), Arwal (15), Jamui, Kishanganj (12 each), Supaul, Vaishali, Saran (11 each), Gaya (8), Sitamarhi (8), Araria, Sheohar (4 each) till the time of filing of this report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-reports-8th-covid-death-state-tally-touches-1-284/story-BtvCRRx0dehi1wOkUYC8RI.html
17-05-2020||City||Navi Mumbai records 62 new Covid cases||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) reported 62 new Covid cases on Sunday. The total tally in Navi Mumbai is 1,190. Five deaths were also reported on Sunday. The new cases are from Turbhe (23), Kopar Khairane (20), Nerul (4), Vashi (4), Ghansoli (4), Airoli (5), Belapur (1) and Digha (1).Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) recorded 13 new Covid positive cases, taking the total cases in its jurisdiction to 259. One patient died.Among the new cases is a 13-year-old boy from Kharghar. His father, a police personnel from Chembur police station, had tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navi-mumbai-records-62-new-covid-cases/story-dPbd02gWulmjmIvdYNRolM.html
17-05-2020||City||Kalyan records 42 new cases, highest one-day jump||The twin cities of Kalyan-Dombivli saw the highest jump in Covid-19 cases in 24 hours with 42 new cases reported on Sunday. The newly infected people include six children and five elderly patients.The total cases in Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) jurisdiction is 500.The city also saw one death due to infection, taking the death toll to 11.As per the KDMC, a 53-year-old man from Dombivli, who works in a hospital in Mumbai as an electrician, was suffering from fever since May 10. He died on his way to hospital and later his test report came positive. “The man was suffering from hypertension. Since he had fever, he had stopped going to work,” said an officer of health department, KDMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kalyan-records-42-new-cases-highest-one-day-jump/story-D2lXVgQ7kcY8PQfhCqdlTM.html
17-05-2020||Chandigarh||Defeated virus, unable to dodge stigma: Chandigarh Covid survivors||After the coronavirus, a different battle awaits those who survived the deadly infection—stigma. A small microbe has managed to precipitate an alarming rift among the public, with Covid patients being the casualties, and undeservingly so. Those who have survived the virus and have come home are greeted to hostile stares or shifty glances from those who were once friendly neighbours.A month on, Parul Kalia, a London-based doctor, has recovered from the virus, but she is not stepping out of her home. “I have seen people suffer the ill effects of this virus. I treated them for two months. I saw young, healthy and happy people crash and die in no time,” said Kalia, who developed symptoms—high fever, cough, mild breathlessness and chest pain—after she returned to India.For her, the isolation period was the most traumatic, when she worried about her parents and wasn’t sure how her disease would run its course. Her details were shared on social media and people began stalking her, calling her names. “People didn’t respect my confidentiality which was most distressing,” she said.The fight is not over, she said, as she is fatigued, sleeps long hours and has mild breathing issues. “These residual effects improve with time. It people’s response I can’t come to terms with. They look at me as if I am a thing to look at,” said Kalia, who has been writing articles for journals and shot a video for Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) amid the lockdown.“The virus is here to stay and it going to impact mental health, too,” she warned.Chandigarh’s first Covid-19 patient, Fiza Gupta, and her brother Arnav Gupta who is also a survivor, recently donated plasma to save lives. A month on, people still think they are ‘virus carriers’.The 23-year-old Fiza said, “I have become more grateful about the good things in life. I had many plans, but this virus taught me to take life as it comes. I also realise now what it means to give back to society.”“Life, as we know it, has been turned upside down by the virus,” she said, adding, “The good part is that we as a family have bonded even more, and the sad part is that people avoid us as they still think we are infected. Some don’t come home while others are reluctant. It will take its own time.”Her brother, Arnav, 25, who tested positive a day after she did, was discharged on April 4. “People still look at me differently. I don’t blame them. If you see or hear about Covid 24x7, you are bound to panic. The ordeal gave me time to introspect and start meditation,” Arnav said, adding that he was grateful his family and friends stood by him.Meanwhile, the first health worker to catch the Covid virus after he treated a patient in PGIMER said he was aghast that people in his community think he is still a carrier. “I recovered and completed the isolation period. But when, after a month, I stepped out for an evening walk, unfriendly stares from my neighbours compelled me to go back home. It’s disturbing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/defeated-virus-unable-to-dodge-stigma-chandigarh-covid-survivors/story-XuIKVpo67cpwUuqEdiUcGM.html
17-05-2020||Chandigarh||19-yr-old girl held for murder bid on 9-yr-old in Chandigarh village||A 19-year-old girl was arrested for allegedly attacking a minor girl who was playing outside her house in Mauli Jagran, the police said.As per police, the mother of the nine-year-old victim said she was informed by a neighbour that her daughter lay unconscious outside the house. Upon checking her, the mother found scratches on the girl’s face and chest.“The critically injured girl was rushed to Manimajra civil hospital. She was referred to PGIMER where she is in an intensive care unit,” said a police official, privy to the matter, requesting anonymity. Following a complaint, the Mauli Jagran police tracked the accused Laxmi, who was arrested. Police and trying to ascertain the motive behind the attack and have registered a case against her under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/19-yr-old-girl-held-for-murder-bid-on-9-yr-old-in-chandigarh-village/story-Jp5BNNx7A9McQgt9ISTd5J.html
17-05-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra records new high of 2,347 Covid-19 cases, tally crosses 33,000||Maharashtra recorded the highest single-day spike of 2,347 Covid-19 cases on Sunday to take the state’s tally to 33,053 while 63 more casualties took the death toll in the pandemic to 1,198, a health official said.Maharashtra’s tally is now more than a third of the country total of Covid-19 cases.On Sunday, 600 patients were discharged from hospitals boosting the number of those recovered to 7,688 so far. The official said Maharashtra now has a total of 24,161 active cases.Mumbai recorded 1,571 of Maharashtra’s new cases and 38 of the 63 casualties. The total number of cases in the city is now 19,967, including 5,012 recovered/discharged and 734 deaths, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said in its health bulletin.Maharashtra continues to be the state hit most by the Covid-19 pandemic. The Thane division, which consists of Mumbai city, has reported 25,130 cases and 811 deaths.As Covid-19 cases continued to soar, the state government extended the ongoing curbs until May 31, hours before the Centre announced the extension of the national lockdown for the same duration.The decision by the Maharashtra government was largely expected as it grapples with the pandemic.Officials said the government will release a plan for the state for the fourth phase of the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-new-high-of-2-347-covid-19-cases-tally-crosses-33-000/story-ruttmi85ICJf25o3ErvGxM.html
17-05-2020||Chandigarh||8 pvt schools in Chandigarh upload balance sheets online, show surplus||Amid the row over Chandigarh administration’s ban on collection of fees during the Covid-19 lockdown, eight private schools of the city have uploaded their balance sheets, showing a surplus ranging between Rs 50 lakh and Rs 4 crore.This comes days after the Punjab and Haryana high court took cognisance of the Independent Schools Association’s plea seeking permission to charge fees from parents during the lockdown. Earlier, over 50 schools out of Chandigarh’s 77 private schools had expressed their inability to pay salaries to their staff in view of the UT administration’s order.Following this, the education department had asked schools to upload their balance sheets online, by invoking the Punjab Fees Regulation Act, 2016. The Chandigarh Parents’ Association had also made several complaints against charging of fees. Even after two reminders, at least 60 schools are yet to upload their balance sheets.The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) affiliation bylaws, Punjab Fee Regulation Act, 2016, and several Supreme Court as well as high court rulings have stated that schools should not indulge in profiteering and commercialisation.As per the Punjab Fee Regulation Act, an “unaided educational institution cannot indulge in profiteering”, while making it mandatory for schools to upload income, expenditure account and balance sheet on their website. In case of violation, a regulatory body headed by the education secretary takes a call on it.A CBSE regional officer, who was not authorised to speak to media, said: “In case we receive any formal complaint, we will forward it to the central affiliation branch.”Rubinderjit Singh Brar, director, school education, UT, said the department will start issuing show-cause notices to the schools in the upcoming week. “We will issue show-cause notices and put up the issue for decision before the fee regulation authority,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/8-pvt-schools-in-chandigarh-upload-balance-sheets-online-show-surplus/story-cKUkjm7Zmri1eSlu09M1iO.html
17-05-2020||City||Unidentified accused decamp with home theatre system from Ludhiana school||While a decline was witnessed in the rate of crime amid the coronavirus lockdown, a burglary case was reported from Government Primary School, Natt village, where unidentified accused fled away with a home theatre system, police said on Sunday. Sahnewal police have lodged a first information report following the statement of Davinder Singh, a teacher of the government school. VILLAGERS NOTICED BROKEN LOCK OF SCHOOL’S ENTRANCE“Some locals had noticed the broken lock of the school gate and informed our head teacher Amandeep Kaur. Kaur asked me to go to the school and check the premises,” Davinder told the police.Davinder also said that when he visited the school, he found the home theatre system missing. The school is closed since March 21 in view of the ongoing pandemic.Investigating official assistant sub-inspector Gurmeet Singh said the unidentified accused might have targeted the school few days ago, but the villagers noticed the broken lock on Saturday. The case has been registered under Sections 457 (lurking house-trespass or house-breaking by night) and 380 (theft in dwelling house) of the Indian Penal Code and the police are scanning the CCTV footages to identify the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/unidentified-accused-decamp-with-home-theatre-system-from-ludhiana-school/story-XKIsAmrNU077ZXIWWvp0oL.html
17-05-2020||City||Thane’s Wagale Estate sealed till May 24||With the number of Covid cases increasing in Wagale Estate in Thane, the Thane Municipal Corporation has locked the entire ward till May 24. TMC said that the lockdown was imposed as the residents of the ward were seen violating social distancing norms and crowding the road.TMC had sealed the area on May 10.Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of TMC, said, “Although the area is sealed, the road was crowded with people buying vegetables, groceries and other essentials. Social distancing was not followed. There are around 200 cases in this ward.”He said a strict lockdown will now be imposed in the ward till May 24. “Shops selling fish, mutton, chicken, grocery and bakery items will be shut. Vegetable vendors, fruit sellers and temporary vendors will not be allowed into the area. Home delivery will not be allowed. Only medical and dairy shops will be allowed to be open in this area.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-s-wagale-estate-sealed-till-may-24/story-bQSC9O0vfRITd3OtAkVjWI.html
17-05-2020||City||Thane records 2 Covid deaths, 88 new cases||Two Covid patients died and 88 new cases were reported from Thane city on Sunday, taking the total number of positive cases to 1,178. The death toll has touched 50. Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC), said, “A 31-year-old man from Kajuvadi, Wagale Estate, who had undergone brain surgery in January died after testing positive for Covid-19. He had a history of fits and had an attack on May 4 after which he was taken to a private hospital. He was shifted to Thane civil hospital after his test came positive. He was unconscious since May 4 and was declared dead on May 14.”The second case is of a 43-year-old man from Ambika Nagar who had fever and cold. He was tested on May 8 and his report came positive on May 11. He died in Thane civil hospital and on May 14. “He had no comorbidities,” said Malvi.Among the new cases, 32 are from Lokmanyanagar Sawarkarnagar ward, while 18 are from Naupada-Kopri ward.The Thane civic commissioner has formed a special committee to address complaints of private hospitals overcharging patients. TMC has fixed the charges for the hospitals and the civic commissioner has given directives to take action against those overcharging patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-records-2-covid-deaths-88-new-cases/story-1TJQXhcWiRPxgf824hw8gM.html
17-05-2020||Chandigarh||57-yr-old woman killed in hit-and-run at Chandigarh PGIMER campus||A 57-year-woman pedestrian was killed after she was hit by a car inside the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) campus in Sector 12, police said on Sunday.The victim has been identified as Kaushalya. Her husband works at the PGIMER and they resided on the campus. “She was walking down the road near the gurdwara around 7:45 pm on Saturday when a rashly-driven car hit her,” said a police official. “During treatment, she succumbed to multiple head injuries. We are trying to ascertain the identity of the driver and vehicle.”Kaushalya is survived by her husband and two children. Her body has been kept in the mortuary and her Covid-19 test results are awaited as per protocol.A case under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 304-A (causing death due to negligence) of the Indian Penal Code was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/57-yr-old-woman-killed-in-hit-and-run-at-chandigarh-pgimer-campus/story-FZGVQqCq9P28albZlVfocI.html
17-05-2020||Chandigarh||‘Relaxation hours inconvenient’, morning, evening walkers in Chandigarh seek change||The guidelines on lockdown 4.0 released by the ministry of home affairs on Sunday, prohibiting movement of individuals between 7 pm and 7 am, has not gone down well with regular walkers in Chandigarh. With the summer turning on the heat day by day, they want a change in timings of relaxation hours.Many senior citizens claim they wake up early and 7 am is too late for a walk. Brigadier Keshav Chandra (retd) , founding member and former president of Chandigarh senior citizens association, suggested morning timings be revised to coincide with sunrise timings. “Retired army officers still wake up at ‘first light’ which is 30 minutes before sunrise. We used to attend a morning yoga class before the Covid-19 epidemic. The morning timing should be revised to coincide with sunrise which is around 5.30 am till June,” he said.President of senior citizens council of Sector 38, Major (retd) DP Singh said, “It is harmful for seniors to be walking outside after 7 am. Shifting the time to 6am or even 5am will be of great relief. The senior citizen bodies will ensure that seniors maintain social distancing and follow all safety norms.”A regular at Sukhna Lake for his evening walk, advocate Ajay Jagga now walks in Sectors 18 and 21 parks in the morning. He said, “I see the governments logic in keeping relaxation hours limited. Preventing the spread of Covid is our priority. However, frankly speaking, more relaxation would be nice. The sun is too bright now and even if relaxation is extended to 6 am it would be a relief.”Several youngsters are asking for more relaxation in evening hours so they can go for a workout in parks after sunset, which happens around 7.10 pm these days. An employee with an e-commerce firm, Chirag Puri, said, “Youngsters are working from home and work up till 6.30 pm. They don’t have the chance to step out before 7 pm. We urge the administration to consider at least a 30-minute extension of relaxation period.”Meanwhile the police continues to register cases under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code against those found outdoors during the night curfew hours. Police have booked more 213 morning and evening walkers since March 24, when the curfew was declared in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/relaxation-hours-inconvenient-morning-evening-walkers-in-chandigarh-seek-change/story-zmt7SBkFpyqixNefJEgzZJ.html
17-05-2020||Lucknow||UP sees highest single-day Covid-19 spike with 213 fresh cases; total now 4,353||Uttar Pradesh recorded its highest single-day spike with 213 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the total in the state to 4,353.So far, 2,444 people have recovered from the disease, while 104 people have died due to it, Principal Secretary Medical and Health Amit Mohan Prasad said.“The 213 fresh cases of COVID-19 reported in a single day is the highest figure in the state,” Dr Vikasendu Agrawal, Joint Director/State Surveillance Officer, Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP), said.“A total of 4,353 COVID-19 cases have been reported from 75 districts in the state with 213 fresh cases so far,” Prasad said.The number of active cases in the state stands at 1,805, he said.Prasad said people across the state are using Aarogya Setu app, while the control room of the health department has given health-related advice to more than 11,000 people so far.“Health check up of over 3.72 lakh migrant labourers has been done till now,” Prasad said. In Muzaffarnagar district, three fresh cases were reported after three migrant workers, who were at a quarantine centre, were tested positive in Khatoli town.According to District Magistrate Selva Kumari, 10 migrant workers came from Maharashtra and were quarantined in Khatoli. Their samples were sent for testing and three of them tested positive, following which they were shifted to Begarazpur medical colleg, she said. PTI NAV KJ||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-sees-highest-single-day-covid-19-spike-with-213-fresh-cases-total-now-4-353/story-vUlKJv79qZWSwHJPxM9kUI.html
17-05-2020||City||Firing by retired ASI’s son at police party: Accused’s accomplice sent to two-day police custody||Day after the son of a retired assistant sub-inspector (ASI) opened fire on a police party in an escape bid, a court on Sunday remanded his accomplice to two-day police custody. The prime accused, Sukhwinder Singh alias Sonu, son of retired ASI Ram Kishan, had suffered a bullet injury in the encounter with the police and is presently admitted to a hospital. He will be produced before the court after being discharged from the hospital.Ladhowal station house officer (SHO) sub-inspector Balwinder Singh said the accused’s accomplice, Prem Verma, told them that they work together as recovery agents for a private bank and used to consume drugs.During interrogation, Prem also said that he had no idea about the pistol with which the accused opened fire on the police. His interrogation is still underway and things will be clear after that, the SHO said.Meanwhile, the retired ASI and father of the accused, Ram Kishan, claimed that the gun does not belong to his son. He also said that his son is a patient of depression and consumes alcohol occasionally, but stays away from the drugs.THE CASEOn Saturday, the accused and his accomplice jumped six check-posts while commissioner Rakesh Agrawal and his party were chasing them. On national highway-44, the accused allegedly fired a bullet at the police personnel and even tried to run his car over them. During cross-firing, the accused sustained a bullet injury in his leg and was held along with his accomplice. The accused was under the influence of drugs during the incident, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/firing-by-retired-asi-s-son-at-police-party-accused-s-accomplice-sent-to-two-day-police-custody/story-zyLD6IRbXLaBeAMtdu0OWO.html
17-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi metro to remain shut till May 31||Metro services will remain closed for commuters till May 31, in view of the lockdown extension, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) said on Sunday. The ongoing countrywide lockdown has been extended till May 31, the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) announced on Sunday.In an order, the NDMA said lockdown measures need to be implemented for a further period of 14 days in the country to contain the spread of COVID-19.  “In light of the extension of lockdown issued by the government, metro services will remain closed for commuters till 31st May. Our helpline services 155370 shall also not be available. You may reach us at helpline@dmrc.org,” the DMRC said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-metro-to-remain-shut-till-may-31/story-JZTNoAVXrstA33C2LAVXQL.html
17-05-2020||Chandigarh||Resumption of OPD services: Chandigarh hospitals waiting for PGIMER to take the lead||The UT health department is waiting to follow the lead of centrally funded Post graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) to reopen OPDs at city’s government hospitals. However, the premier institute has no plans to resume operations for now.The OPD services at PGIMER, Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, and other allied hospitals were suspended on March 19 as the OPDs are overcrowded and norms like social distancing could not be followed to curtail the spread of coronavirus disease.Only emergency wings continued to remain open at the three medical institutes and three civil hospitals in Manimajra, Sector 45 and Sector 22.Chandigarh is a medical hub for the north Indian states where patients from as far as Jammu and Kashmir and even parts of Uttar Pradesh reach for treatment.UT health secretary Arun Gupta said they had not taken a decision on opening services at GMSH-16 and GMCH-32. “We will consider it after PGIMER opens. Besides, hospitals should be able to relieve some staff from Covid-19 duties and afford some crowd. Meanwhile, both hospitals are offering telemedicine facility,” he said.PGIMER also plans to start teleconsulations for various OPDs from Monday. But, has no plan on reopening the OPDs.“We are currently working on strengthening the teleconsultation services and thus cannot give any exact date and time for reopening the OPDs,” said Dr Jagat Ram, director, PGIMER.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/resumption-of-opd-services-chandigarh-hospitals-waiting-for-pgimer-to-take-the-lead/story-5fu0hx6RwJLtvS4g6DQzsL.html
17-05-2020||City||Slow start for Mohali industries, production down to 10% after lockdown norms ease||Two weeks after Covid-19 restrictions were relaxed and industries allowed to start work to revive the district’s economy, production is down 10%, only 40% labour remains after the migrant exodus and employee salaries have been slashed from 30% to 60%.Unable to bear losses after production was completely shut down by March-end and April, businessmen have been swift in imposing salary cuts, which has been demoralising for staffers already worried about an uncertain future. Most of the units are grappling with labour shortage, unable to increase productivity with 60% migrants leaving the state.Ever since industries opened on May 4, production levels have fallen 10%, claim industrialists, because of which salaries were cut. Some people also say they had to sign agreements for employers wanting to avoid legal action in case they fired anyone.“We’ve managed 10% production in the last two weeks. Earlier we used to supply tractor parts for Rs 80 lakh per month, but in the past two weeks we’ve managed sales worth Rs 6 lakh and not been able to meet monthly expenses of salaries, power bill and transportation,” says Mukesh Bassi, managing director, India Harness, which manufactures tractor parts.On salary cuts, Vivek Kapoor, vice president of Mohali Industry Association (MIA) says, “We requested the state and Central government to support small industries and help them pay salaries for the lockdown period from either the Employees’ State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) funds or from the labour cess funds. It would be appreciable if someone could pay from their own funds, but we could at least take care of the daily needs of the staffers.”An employee at an industrial unit in Phase-8-B, who had his salary cut by 50%, however, said it was strange that a month of lockdown had forced companies to slash salaries. “These units have been making profits for several years and now they are not able to pay staff after a month.”There are around 13,000 MSME units and 49 major industrial houses in Mohali district employing 1.30 lakh workers.INDUSTRIAL AREA: FACTS YOU MUST KNOW About 10 industries became operational in Mohali in 1978, growing to about 10,000 units, including manufacturing and IT/ service industry. The Industrial Area is divided in different phases: Phase 1 to 4 fall under the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA), Phase 7, 8-A and 8-B under the Punjab Small Industries Export Corporation Limited (PSIEC) and Phase 9 under Punjab Infotech.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/slow-start-for-mohali-industries-production-down-to-10-after-lockdown-norms-ease/story-zGlY63KpAbAHMlmo0IpbZP.html
17-05-2020||Kolkata||6 more die of Covid-19, 101 new cases detected in West Bengal||Six more fatalities and 101 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours took the cornavirus death toll in West Bengal to 166 and the total number of active cases to 1,480, the state health department said on Sunday. All the six fresh death were from Kolkata, it said in a health bulletin. The total number of coronavirus cases reported in West Bengal so far stands at 2,677.At least 8,668 samples were tested in the last 24 hours, the bulletin said adding that a total number of samples examined so far is 77,228.Sixty-seven COVID-19 patients were discharged from hospital following their recovery since Saturday, according to the health bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/6-more-die-of-covid-19-101-new-cases-detected-in-west-bengal/story-9d034xKu3dvkjC3KBmEHzJ.html
17-05-2020||City||Renew passport, driving licence via genuine govt sites||As state governments begin to lift the lockdown, albeit cautiously and in stages, and government departments dealing with public services slowly start opening their doors, consumers have many anxious queries and I have been receiving quite a few of them recently.A senior citizen, for example, says his driving licence has expired and every time he has to take his car out to buy vegetables and fruits, he is worried about the police imposing a fine of ₹5,000 on him. His other worry is that when the regional transport office starts working again, there would be large crowds of people there, and therefore it may not be a safe place for someone like him, since he is part of the most vulnerable category susceptible to contracting Covid-19, as he suffers from diabetes and a heart ailment, besides being a senior citizen.In fact, from several such queries pertaining to vehicle registration certificates and driving licences, it is apparent that several consumers have not read the circular of March 30, 2020, issued by the union ministry of road transport and highways, extending the validity of all such documents, including driving licences and registration certificates that expired between February 1, 2020, and June 30, 2020.The circular has been sent to all states and union territories, with a request to implement the advisory. That should answer the queries of consumers with regard to expired driving licences, learners licences and the temporary registration of new vehicles.As for the worry about exposure to Covid-19 at the RTO, I am sure the RTO will make special arrangements to ensure the safety of those visiting their offices, particularly with respect to maintaining social distance. Many offices dealing with the public are also insisting on everyone wearing a mask, bringing sanitiser and having the Aarogya Setu app on their cellphones.Besides, these days many RTOs have provisions to apply for the renewal of driving licence online and even making the payment online. One may not be required to visit the RTO at all, or only make a brief visit if necessary.I must also mention that RTOs in many cities have changed for the better in recent years. In fact, I have noticed that in some RTOs, you get a token indicating your number in the queue and you need to go in only when that number flashes on the screen.Lastly, I must warn consumers to be extremely careful about fake RTO sites. Remember, the ones run by the government will end with nic.in or gov.in and not org.in or co.in. So do not fall for counterfeits and lose your money.In fact, the official website of the ministry of external affairs (Consular, Passport and Visa division—Passport Sewa) has issued a warning against fake passport sewa portals and stated that citizens/consumers should not mistake sites that end with .in or .org or .com for the genuine government site. The authentic site for the online submission of an application for passport-related services is www.passportindia.gov.in. Alternatively, one can use the official mobile app mPassportSeva by downloading it from the Android or iOS application stores.Speaking of passport services, a consumer from Shimla says the passport offices may be open, but going there would be tough in the absence of public transport. Keeping in mind these issues, the MEA has said it has relaxed the restrictions on the number of reschedules allowed for applicants in case they cannot come on the day of their appointment. I would also suggest that consumers send their queries to the official Twitter handle of the passport service: @passportsevamea.Since there are many consumer queries pertaining to different services vis-à-vis the lockdown , the consumer affairs ministry should act as the nodal ministry, compile all relevant information and make it available for consumers in one place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/renew-passport-driving-licence-via-genuine-govt-sites/story-YSrhdcq3e5x5dSRNSAGXUM.html
17-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s medium pacer Siddharth makes fitness top priority, eyes Indian squad||If Covid-19 had not gripped the whole world, along with other global sporting events, Indian Premier League (IPL) season 13 would have been underway at the moment and Chandigarh-based medium-pacer Siddharth Kaul would have been seen in action for Sunrisers Hyderabad. In this national lockdown period, 29-year-old Kaul is spending time with his family at his house in Zirakpur and also making sure he is keeping mentally and physically fit. “I miss being there with Sunrisers Hyderabad during this time of the year. Before our first camp could get underway, first lockdown period had started. I hope the situation is way better in coming months and normalcy could resume. Nevertheless, I am spending time with my family. Otherwise I was always travelling or playing cricket,” said Kaul, who made his ODI and T20 debut for India in 2018.One hour of cycling in his housing society early morning, followed by yoga in the adjacent garden is how Kaul likes to start his day and keep fit. Kaul lives with his parents, Dr Tej Kaul and Sandhya Kaul, brother Uday Kaul and his wife, along with his own wife Dr Harsimran Kaur. “We have made two teams who do household chores and cooking every alternative day. I am placed in the team comprising my brother and mother. It is good to be helping out each other in this difficult time,” added Kaul, who meditates everyday for one hour at noon.One thing to which Kaul is hooked onto these days is the newly formed WhatsApp group of the Indian U-19 team, which won the 2008 Youth World Cup in Malaysia. Virat Kohli led the U-19 team to World Cup victory 12 years ago. “Tanmay Srivastav created this group. It was nice get in touch with everyone and reminiscing those amazing memories. Everyone has time at hand these days, so all are chipping in. Virat paaji also chats in the group and recalls the victory. We all have decided to organise a reunion once the lockdown ends and the virus scare is over,” said Kaul, who was hoping to earn India team call-up through a good showing in IPL. Punjab might not have qualified for the Ranji Trophy quarter-finals this season, but their most experienced bowler Kaul had a memorable showing in the tournament taking 27 wickets in five matches.While Kaul’s father was once Indian cricket team’s physiotherapist and also a retired coach from Sports Authority of India (SAI), his mother is still a coach with SAI. His brother has played first-class cricket for Punjab and now represents Chandigarh. “In the evening, we all indulge in fun-filled games on our terrace. Ludo, carrom, cards, etc., all indoor games have suddenly become our favourites taking us back in childhood. I also do weight training every evening,” said Kaul, who is hopeful that IPL takes place once Covid-19 subsides.“I hope the world is a happy place once this disease is beaten. So many lives have been lost to this pandemic. It is best to stay at home and maintain social distancing,” concluded Kaul, who has taken 232 wickets in 63 first-class matches.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-medium-pacer-siddharth-makes-fitness-top-priority-eyes-indian-squad/story-XmqcJvarmiCBVMp6ZKkTFP.html
17-05-2020||City||Senior citizen dies, six injured in mini-bus crash on Mumbai-Pune Expressway||A 67-year-old man died and six people were injured when a mini-bus crashed into a stationary bus on Sunday on the Mumbai-Pune Expressway at Kamothe in Navi Mumbai. Kamrul Islam, a religious leader with Shura Tablighi Jamaat, was travelling in the mini-bus with five other members of his community when the accident took place.According to the Kamothe police, the driver of the vehicle Vaghesha Ramchandrappa, 28, was ferrying the six people from Shivamogga in Karnataka with a pass to Ahmedabad --- the group’s hometown.“Around 12.30pm, Ramchandrappa lost control of the vehicle after he dozed off at the wheel and crashed into the stationary bus. All of them who were travelling in the vehicle had tested negative for Covid-19,” said Anil Patil, sub-inspector at Kamothe police station.The private stationary bus had broken down and was parked along the lane when the driver crashed into it, said the police. Ramchandrappa has been booked for causing death due to negligence and rash and negligent driving under Indian Penal Code.The occupants of the vehicle were rushed to MGM Kamothe Hospital where Islam was declared dead. Others have sustained minor injuries, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/senior-citizen-dies-six-injured-in-mini-bus-crash-on-mumbai-pune-expressway/story-dTNVA02X1dS2BUwI2hWMrJ.html
17-05-2020||Ranchi||Auraiya mishap: Jharkhand announces compensation to kin of deceased migrants||Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren on Sunday announced Rs four lakh compensation to each of the families of 11 migrant labourers of the state who had died in a mishap near Auraiya in Uttar Pradesh.The 11 persons were among the 24 migrant workers who were killed when a trailer rammed into a stationary truck on a highway near Auraiya in Uttar Pradesh in the early hours of Saturday. Thirty-six labourers were also injured.Taking to Twitter, Soren also announced assistance of Rs 50,000 for the injured who belong to Jharkhand, and directed the administration to arrange necessary treatment for them. A government statement said that the chief minister was informed through a video clip that the bodies were being ferried in a truck to Chaas in Jharkhands Bokaro district.The bodies had decomposed due to the melting of ice, it said.Expressing shock at the “inhuman and insensitive” transportation of the bodies in a truck, Soren urged the Uttar Pradesh and Bihar governments to arrange a better transport system up to the Jharkhand border from where the state government would make a dignified arrangement to take the bodies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/auraiya-mishap-jharkhand-announces-compensation-to-kin-of-deceased-migrants/story-roYmpJv8TwraOORiz0qB2J.html
17-05-2020||City||Nepalese man held for raping minor in Jubbal||The police on Sunday arrested a Nepalese man for raping a 12-year-old girl in Jubbal.The incident took place on May 13, when the minor was alone at home. The accused raped the minor and fled the spot.Later, the minor narrated her ordeal with her parents who filed a complaint at the police station. The police had started an inquiry into the matter and arrested the accused from Tikkar village in the district. He was presented before a local court on Sunday that remanded him in three-day police custody.Rohru deputy superintendent of police said the police are conducting the investigation.A case under Section 376 (punishment for rape) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nepalese-man-held-for-raping-minor-in-jubbal/story-A4o1G4G0BqCwqI0jv8TRmO.html
17-05-2020||Lucknow||UP drug stores to submit details on buyers of medicines for fever, cold||The Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh has made it mandatory for drug stores and medical shops to submit details about all those customers buying medicines for fever, cold and cough, on a daily basis.The order seeks to trace any individual who might still be ignorant about the COVID-19 symptoms or could be deliberately trying to conceal the infection.The order has been issued by the Commissioner of Drug Licensing and Control Authority the drug inspectors have been instructed to update the information on the state’s Health and Family Welfare Department website, every day by 5 p.m.Information on the symptoms related to fever, cough and cold along with inputs on buyers, including name, address, and phone number, will be directly sent to the e-link of the Department of Health and Family Welfare Department.Official sources say that the steps were initiated because despite all efforts by the government, a lot of people still have their reservations about the virus.Rather than reporting their illness, such patients use cold/cough medicines for domestic treatment that risks the lives of those around them. The move is intended to plug the cases or prevent any community outbreak from happening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-drug-stores-to-submit-details-on-buyers-of-medicines-for-fever-cold/story-ORze49qUmmhIZalTmV8LDN.html
17-05-2020||Delhi||Over 60% of sex workers in Delhi return to their home states||Over 60% of Delhi’s sex workers have returned to their home states due to loss of means of livelihood amid the coronavirus-induced lockdown that pushed many of them to the brink of starvation. The fear of contracting the deadly pathogen has kept customers away, leaving a debilitating impact on sex workers in the city. Kusum, who is president of the All India Network of Sex Workers (AINSW) - a group of sex workers that assists others with legal rights, health issues and social security across the country, said over 60 per cent of the sex workers in Delhi have already left for their home states. “The 60 per cent population accounts for around 3,000 sex workers. According to government figures, a total of registered 5,000 sex workers reside in Delhi,” Kusum said. She said they were forced to leave the city after enduring weeks of struggle for basic facilities like food and medicines. Shalini, one such worker, moved back to her village in Uttar Pradesh after living for eight years in Delhi. “I ran away from my abusive home in UP at the age of 18. I wanted to be an actress but got into sex trade to support myself,” 26-year-old Shalini told PTI. “After getting into this business (sex trade), at least I was not struggling for food, I was not on streets. But ever since the coronavirus outbreak and the lockdown, I have zero customers and money is drying up,” she said. Another sex worker Rajni (name changed) said she and her four-year-old son have not eaten properly in the last two months. “When my son fainted out of weakness two weeks back I decided to move back. I have some relatives in UP who do not know what I do here. I will stay with them for some days before figuring out what to do next,” she added. Sharmila (name changed) who grew up as an orphan on the streets of Kanpur became a sex worker in Delhi five years ago to make ends meet. “But now there is no food, no medicines and no customers. It is impossible to survive any longer in Delhi with the savings that I have. The social distancing is going to hit our business more than anything so there is no point staying here,” Sharmila, who is planning to move back to Kanpur, said. Rajni, Sharmila and Shalini are residents of the Garstin Bastion Road, or more famously G B Road, and now renamed Swami Shradhanand Marg. There are around 100 brothels on the one-kilometre stretch housing approximately 1,500 sex workers. Activists fear that many of these women who were on medication for different diseases, including HIV-AIDS, will not be able to get proper treatment in their home towns. “We feel all the work which we did in the past years for HIV and other diseases would be of no use. Many of them who escaped abusive homes can again become victims of domestic violence. There are many concerns but mostly we are worried about their health,” Kusum said. She further said that similar migration of sex workers is taking place in other cities too. Amit Kumar, the national coordinator for the AINSW, said the GB Road has completely shut down and most of its residents have returned to their home towns. “We were doing our best to provide dry ration, medicines, masks and sanitiser. We also gave them basic information on HIV treatment,” he said. Kumar said many of the sex workers went to their homes during Holi but they did not return after that. India is currently under the biggest lockdown with around 1.3 billion people asked to stay home in view of the coronavirus pandemic. The nationwide lockdown was initially imposed from March 25 to April 14, but was later extended till May 17 to contain the spread of the deadly disease. The virus has so far claimed 2,872 lives and infected over 90,000 people in the country. (This story has been published from a wire agency without modifications to the text)Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/sex-and-relationships/over-60-of-sex-workers-in-delhi-return-to-their-home-states/story-tdmJEcI9q9uUWirPGUd2eL.html
17-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi Covid-19 toll nears 150; total cases 9,755||Delhi reported 19 coronavirus deaths and 422 infections on Sunday, taking the total to 148 fatalities and 9,755 cases, authorities said.The Delhi Health Department said the cumulative death figures refers to fatalities where the primary cause of death was found to be COVID-19 as per the report of the Death Audit Committee on the basis of case sheets received from various hospitals.On Saturday, the total number of cases stood at 9,333 and fatalities at 129.Of the total COVID-19 deaths, 77 were aged 60 and above and accounted for over 52 per cent of the fatalities.Forty of them were aged between 50-59 years and 31 were less than 50 years, the department said in a bulletin.After facing criticism for “under reporting” the COVID-19 deaths, the Delhi government on May 10 issued a standard operating procedure (SOP) for hospitals and other health facilities in the city on reporting fatalities due to the virus.A total of 4,202 patients have recovered so far, while there are 5,405 active cases, the health department said.An order has been issued for all healthcare facilities operating in Delhi to follow guidelines issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, dated May 15, for rationale use of Personal Protective Equipment in accordance with the risk involved.A total of 1,35,791 COVID-19 tests have been conducted till date, it said.The total number of COVID-19 patients under home isolation stands at 2,142, it said.According to the bulletin, out of the 9,333 cases recorded till Saturday, at least 1,767 are admitted at various hospitals like LNJP Hospital, RML Hospital, Safdarjung Hospital and Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital and AIIMS Jhajjhar, adding 152 of them are in ICU and 21 on ventilators.The number of containment zones in Delhi is 76.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-covid-19-toll-nears-150-total-cases-9-755/story-qBoUo8WhrlZy1tFAM13vlK.html
17-05-2020||Pune||Districts asked to look for spaces to be used as temporary jails||Ten days after a temporary prison was started in Yerawada, the Maharashtra state home department has released a government resolution to set up such facility in all districts of the state.Sunil Ramanand, additional director general, prison, Maharashtra will formulate the rules and operation of set-up. Narayan Shrikrishna Karad, deputy secretary, signed the government resolution.In Pune, the facility is set up at the girls, boys hostel which is used by the students of school run by Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Research and Training Institute (Barti). The organisation is run by the social justice and special assistance department of the state government.The property is located at a quiet area close to the central jail. It is sprawling with trees and a lawn - a location apt for a school. However, the children’s rooms have now been occupied by inmates.The staff quarters are located on the campus at a distance of 150 metres from the buildings that now house undertrials in cases ranging from petty theft to murder. While the men’s facility has 53 inmates, the women’s facility houses one person.“We get one-day duty here. Our job is simply to man the gate which is the single entry point here,” said senior inspector Gajendra Jagtap of Pune police crime branch.The jail staff manage the facility, but the security of the outer perimeter is the responsibility of the city police, Jagtap said.“Initially, 80 boys and 80 girls from the school stayed here. These are students from primary school to Class 12. At the beginning of the lockdown, they were asked to leave with all their belongings. The school building and staff quarters are in the same premise,” said a security official on anonymity.In April, the people arrested in Pune who were remanded to judicial custody, were taken to Satara jail. However, the inmates from Pune started testing positive for Covid-19, putting safety of all its inmates in jeopardy. The temporary facility got approval from the district collector office on May 3. The facility began operation on May 6, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/districts-asked-to-look-for-spaces-to-be-used-as-temporary-jails/story-3svggbsIyrDTc86Ni52IGM.html
17-05-2020||Pune||First transgender death reported due to Covid-19 in the city||The city reported 11 deaths on Saturday taking the death count to 185 in Pune city due to Covid-19. Sassoon General Hospital reported four deaths on Saturday, taking the hospital’s total count to 103 deaths. Out of the 11, one includes a 46-year-old transgender from Bhavani peth. The number of critical patients also rose from 70 as of May 9 to 149 on Saturday. About 68 patients were discharged taking the final count to 1,698 and 202 fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported taking the total to 3,295.The transgender was suffering from acute respiratory failure due to bilateral pnuemonia with diabetes, hypertension, obesity and Covid-19 positive. The death was reported at Sassoon hospital where the patient was admitted on May 14 and declared dead on Saturday at 3:45 am.The other deaths includes a 55-year-old female from Ramtekdi Hadapsar, reported from Kashibai Navale hospital who also had a history of pulmonary TB and was admitted on May 9 and declared dead on May 15.The third death is that of a 64-year-old male from Nana peth, reported from Poona hospital who also suffered from diabetes, hypertension and IHD and was admitted to the hospital on May 13 and declared dead on May 15.The fourth death is of an 84-year-old male from Rasta peth reported from Sahyadri hospital who was admitted on May 6 and declared dead on May 15 and was suffering from diabetes, hypertension and hyperthyroidism.Fifth death is that of a 68-year-old female from Tadiwala road admitted at Sassoon on May 10 and declared dead on Saturday. The person was also suffering from myocarditis, acute kidney injury, dilated cardiomyopathy and hypertension.The sixth death is that of a 63-year-old male from Ramtekdi Hadapsar, reported from Sassoon hospital who was admitted on May 14 and declared dead on Saturday. The person was also suffering from hypertension and ischemic heart disease (IHD).The seventh death is that of a 49-year-old male from Mangalwar peth reported from district hospital Aundh who was admitted on May 14 and declared dead on Saturday and was also suffering from decompensated liver cirrhosis and bilateral pneumonia.Another 79-year-old male from Gultekdi was reported dead on Saturday at Sassoon hospital and was also suffering from hypertension and hypothyrodism.The ninth death was of a 72-year-old female from Bibwewadi reported from Poona hospital, admitted on May 13 and declared dead on Saturday due to acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), multi-organ failure, diabetes and hypertension.The tenth death was of a 48-year-old male from Tadiwala road reported from Symbiosis hospital who was admitted on April 24 and declared dead on May 16. The person also suffered from diabetes, hypertension, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and diabetic neuropathy.The 11th death reported on Saturday as of evening update is that of a 65 -year-old from Yerawada, reported from Poona hospital who also suffered from acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) and diabetes. and was declared dead on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/first-transgender-death-reported-due-to-covid-19-in-the-city/story-XEJimSqYVMTRiddYacW6fO.html
17-05-2020||Jaipur||With 123 more patients, total 5,083 Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan; two more deaths reported||Two deaths and 123 positive cases of coronavirus were reported in Rajasthan on Sunday, officials said.The deaths were reported from Jaipur, taking the total number of fatalities due to COVID-19 in the state to 128, they said.A total of 123 fresh cases were reported on Sunday and 37 of them are from Jaipur alone. This takes the total number of positive cases in the state to 5,083, the officials said.The 37 cases in Jaipur include 14 from jails (12 from central jail and two from district jail), an official said.Dungarpur and Udaipur reported 18 and 16 cases respectively while 11 cases were reported from Jodhpur, 10 from Rajsamand, seven from Sikar, six from Pali, five from Bikaner, two each from Jhunjhunu and Kota and one each from Ajmer, Barmer, Bhilwara, Dausa, Jalore, Karauli, Nagaur, Pratapgarh and Sawaimadhopur. As many as 128 COVID-19 patients have died, 2,992 patients have recovered so far and there are 1,963 active cases in the state as of now, according to the state government’s data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/with-123-more-patients-total-5-083-covid-19-cases-in-rajasthan-two-more-deaths-reported/story-1d8FCTsGe1FQ9jMMskfsVI.html
17-05-2020||City||Narmada sand mining: File attempt to murder cases, says MP minister||Madhya Pradesh agriculture and farmer welfare minister Kamal Patel on Sunday said Narmada river was a living entity and therefore collectors have been told to register attempt to murder cases against sand miners for causing harm to the water body.Narmada, which originates from Amarkantak in Anuppur district in MP and merges in Gulf of Khambhat (Arabian Sea) in Gujarat after traversing a distance of 1,312 kilometres, was declared a “living entity” in May, 2017 by the MP government.“Narmada River is the lifeline of MP and the government has termed it a living entity. It is said that Ma Narmada ka kankar kankar is Shankar (Lord Shiva) and Narmade Har-Jeevan Bhar,” Patel told PTI on Sunday.“As the Supreme Court, High Court and National Green Tribunal (NGT) have banned the excavation of sand with the help of machines in all rivers, those indulging in it are trying to kill the river.“Therefore, I have directed collectors of 11 districts under Narmadapuram and Jabalpur divisions to register attempt to murder FIRs against those indulging in illegal sand mining with machines,” he said.“They should be treated like any person accused of attempt to murder as Narmadaji is a living entity for us,” Patel, who is the minister in charge of the Narmadapuram and Jabalpur divisions, said.He said he would shortly be writing to collectors of other districts as well through which the river passes to register attempt to murder cases against illegal sand miners.Patel said he had ordered for the installation of CCTVs along the routes leading to the river and asked police to take action if trucks are found overloaded.Collectors have been asked to send daily reports in the action taken against sand miners, he said, adding that such moves would go along way in curb illegal sand mining and protecting and conserving the river.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/narmada-sand-mining-file-attempt-to-murder-cases-says-mp-minister/story-GPA25BGPit9O6takgXUFtO.html
17-05-2020||Mumbai||Staff tests Covid-19 positive, Mumbai Additional CP quarantined||A Mumbai police additional commissioner was quarantined as a precautionary measure after his reader tested positive for the novel coronavirus, an official said on Sunday.The reader, an inspector rank officer, was detected with the virus on Tuesday after which he was admitted in Kolekalyan police hospital in Santa Cruz East.“After the reader tested positive, four persons, including the additional commissioner and an inspector, have been quarantined for 14 days as a precautionary measure” the official said.The personnel who tested positive told PTI he was asymptomatic but was asked to undergo the test by his superior.“I was shocked when the report returned positive,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/staff-tests-covid-19-positive-mumbai-additional-cp-quarantined/story-vCqCA8kAec0unFPuNgIXqK.html
17-05-2020||Pune||Pune’s largest slum, Janata Vasahat, which was Covid-free now has 6 +ve cases in 2 days||Janata Vasahat, a slum spread on 2.5 km area on Sinhgad road in Pune had largely stayed away from the Covid-19 pandemic due to self-discipline and a canal that kept the slum population segregated. Till the beginning of last week, this slum with a population of around 60,000 people had reported just one Covid-19 positive and the person had recovered and was discharged.In the last two days however, six fresh cases have surfaced here, casting a shadow on this slum which was emerging as an example of a success story for others. In Pune, many other slums have seen a major spike in positive cases, posing a major challenge before civic authorities.“There are a total of six cases reported from Janata Vasahat. We have sent a few more samples for testing and the reports are awaited,” said Chetan Kabade, Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) ward officer from Sinhgad road.Located between Parvati hill on one hand and a canal on the other, the slum does not have too many entry-exit points which restricted the movement of its habitants. This helped the PMC staff to implement social distancing. According to civic officials, of the total positive cases in Pune, over 65 per cent cases have come from slums, mostly from Kashewadi slum in Bhavani Peth and Tadiwala road slum Dhole Patil road wards.As of May 15, Pune had 174 deaths and 3,093 positive cases due to the Covid-19 disease.While a number of slums were sealed by the civic body and declared as containment zones, Janata Vasahat, which is adjacent to Dandekar bridge, did not figure in the list of containment zones till Saturday.However, with fresh cases, the PMC sealed the entry and exit points of the locality freezing public movement here. Most of the people living here had migrated from Marathwada and other parts of Maharashtra during the 1972 drought. Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said one reason why Janata Vasahat had largely remained free of Covid-19 till recently was the preventive measures adopted by the people. They did not come out in the open unnecessarily, avoided public toilets and there was no inter-mingling, he said. With the help from the local doctors, PMC staff and the police, people at this slum managed to keep Covid-19 at bay, unlike other slums, he said. With six cases from Janata Vasahat, the number of positive cases in Sinhgad road ward has risen to 23. It was Sinhgad road area which had reported Pune’s first Covid-19 case on March 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-s-largest-slum-janata-vasahat-which-was-covid-free-now-has-6-ve-cases-in-2-days/story-De1k8gqu4oLvcJTeDsmrxJ.html
17-05-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan govt to decide on random sampling of prisoners for Coronavirus||Concerned over the spread of coronavirus infection to more than 140 prisoners in Jaipur jails, the government may take a decision on Monday to conduct random sampling of prisoners lodged in other jails of the state.“A decision regarding random sampling of prisoners lodged in various jails in Rajasthan is likely to be taken tomorrow,” a senior official said.After Covid-19 cases were reported in the Jaipur district jail, the jail authorities got all the inmates and staff members tested for the virus.In the district jail, the jail superintendent and 130 inmates have tested positive so far. A few cases have also been reported from the central jail.“All the inmates and staff members of Jaipur district jail have been tested for coronavirus. Cases have come up from one ward in Jaipur’s central jail also and now we have decided to conduct random sampling in other wards of the central jail,” DG (Prisons) NRK Reddy said.For random sampling in other jails where there is no case so far, the official said a decision would be taken tomorrow in a meeting with home department officials.“We would take a call on sampling in other jails tomorrow in a meeting,” he said.He said after a lockdown was announced in March, separate/isolation arrangements for new entrants were made in all the jails. A new entrant is kept in the new ward before shifting to regular wards after a period of 14-21 days.“Only during that time we found anyone suspicious or with symptoms; we used to refer him to hospital for check up,” he said.In Jaipur district jail, he informed, a prisoner who came into the jail in early April was the source of infection. He was asymptomatic when he was kept in isolation in initial days and later suffered from low BP and diarrhoea. He was tested for Covid-19 and the report came positive on May 9.In the meantime, the jail superintendent and a few other inmates got infected.The cases in Jaipur district jail spiked on Saturday when 119 prisoners tested positive. On Sunday, 14 prisoners (12 from central jail and two from district jail) tested positive for the virus.So far, more than 140 prisoners (maximum from district jail) have tested positive for the virus in Jaipur.After the prisoners tested positive, the jail department decided to shift new prisoners -- who come to Jaipur, Alwar and Sawaimadhopur jails -- to Dausa jail temporarily.Dausa jail has been vacated and the inmates and staff were sent to another jail in Dausa to create room for the new prisoners coming from Jaipur, Alwar and Sawaimadhopur.The officer said that 156 prisoners in the state have been released on parole, parole of 21 prisoners was extended and 11 prisoners have been released from jails after remission of sentence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-govt-to-decide-on-random-sampling-of-prisoners-for-coronavirus/story-zEIROf8s7cP1VD1FzL35FN.html
17-05-2020||City||Drunk man kills wife using sharp weapon in Rajasthan’s Baran, flees||A 30-year-old woman was allegedly killed by her husband, who was drunk at the time, following a quarrel at their home in Baran district, police said on Sunday. The couple along with their 10-year-old son had recently returned from institutional quarantine after completing their isolation period at a centre in Baran. They had returned from Kota city where they made a living as daily wage workers, they said. The incident took place on Saturday night at their home in Khuri village under Atru police station limits of Baran district, SHO Atru police station Laxmichand said. The accused, Mukesh Meena, was in inebriated condition and had a fight with his wife, Anita Meena. In a fit of rage, he attacked her with a sharp weapon, presumed to be an axe, killing her on the spot and fled the place, the SHO added. Police handed over Anita’s body to her family members after a post-mortem was conducted on Sunday morning and lodged a case of murder under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code against Mukesh while initiating efforts to arrest him. The couple along with their son had come back home in Khuri village five days ago after completing quarantine period in a government quarantine centre in Baran where they were lodged following their return from Kota city where they worked as daily wage labourers, the SHO said. The accused is said to be a liquor addict and used to regularly argue with his wife after getting drunk, the policeman said. The couple’s son was also present at the time but ran away after seeing the crime, Laxmichand added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/drunk-man-kills-wife-using-sharp-weapon-in-rajasthan-s-baran-flees/story-AYIdcVtiWXcKkEoUZNaCqN.html
17-05-2020||Lucknow||UP prison admin starts random Covid-19 testing in jails||After the death of an inmate in Agra Central Jail due to Covid-19, the Uttar Pradesh Prison Administration and Reform Department has started random testing of samples for coronavirus in all the prisons of the state, a senior official said on Sunday. Fourteen jail inmates were quarantined following the death of the prisoner on May 8, Anand Kumar, DG of the Department of Prisons Administration and Reform, told PTI on Sunday. He said 13 jail officials who looked after the barrack where the prisoner was lodged were also tested for COVID-19. At present, there are 71 operational jails in Uttar Pradesh with over 94,000 inmates. So far, more than 16,000 inmates have been released either on bail or parole, Kumar said. To boost the immunity level of the inmates, yoga sessions are being conducted in jails. “The jail inmates are voluntarily attending the yoga classes. Yoga sessions are taking place in most of the jails as per the Ayush Ministry guidelines. ‘Kaadhaa’ is also being given to the inmates twice a day,” Kumar said. He also said that social distancing is being adhered to the extent possible in the jails. “Even today, there are 94,000 inmates in jails against a capacity of 60,000. Overcrowding is a problem. We are still 1.5 times above the sanctioned capacity,” he said. Kumar said every jail inmate has two-three masks and the prisons are being fumigated and sanitised regularly. “We are worried about older inmates whose immune systems are weak. There are around 4,000 convicted inmates who are above the age of 60. Barring exceptions, heinous offences and prohibited categories of crime, if these inmates can be released on interim parole for two months then overcrowding will come down in the jails. Deliberations are also going on in this regard,” Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-prison-admin-starts-random-covid-19-testing-in-jails/story-zkiYFs5ENNf3sbs6HXpJYK.html
17-05-2020||City||UP ‘migrant’ is policewoman for a day, asks workers not to leave Punjab||Banking on the authority of khaki, a 23-year-old woman from Shamli in Uttar Pradesh (UP) working as bank employee at Lehragaga in Sangrur, became “policewoman” for a day to appeal to migrant workers not to be overwhelmed by the Covid-19 threat and remain in Punjab to find work in factories other businesses opening up.After hearing about the plight of migrants from her state, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh who were walking for miles from Punjab to reach their hometowns and villages, Ashu Upadhyay contacted the police saying she wanted to help.They asked her to wear the uniform, become a policewoman for a day, wield authority and visit various parts of the city to talk to workers insecure about their future.“The workers are finding the going very tough and want to go back home. However, they had left their states to come to Punjab for work, and now that the restrictions are easing and the state has opened factories and other business establishments, I appeal to all of them to stay where they are,” said Upadhyay.Those who had made up their minds, however, should not walk and instead opt for buses and trains for their own safety and that of their dear ones, she added.Lehragaga deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Buta Singh said Upadhyay herself wanted to go home, but when she asked the civil administration for help she was asked to wait. That was when she decided to do something about the migrant crisis.“Ashu appealed to the migrants to work in Punjab as the government has opened the economy and there was huge demand of labour in factories, agriculture and other fields. She visited different markets and offices with police personnel to convince migrants to work in the state or leave by buses and trains, and not walk,” added Buta Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/up-migrant-is-policewoman-for-a-day-asks-workers-not-to-leave-punjab/story-zuhbESHmrxxXqBXlzWfJBK.html
17-05-2020||Pune||Maharashtra releases over 7,200 prisoners to check overcrowding in jails||Authorities in Maharashtra have released over 7,200 prisoners so far to check overcrowding in jails amid the coronavirus pandemic, officials said on Sunday.Around 10,000 more will be released shortly, they said.In a bid to decongest state jails due to coronavirus outbreak, the state prisons department has so far released over 7,200 prisoners across the state on either temporary bail or parole, an official said.Following the Supreme Court directives to states and Union territories to set up a panel to consider the release of prisoners on parole to avoid overcrowding in jails to check the spread of coronavirus, the state government had said that around 11,000 prisoners in Maharashtra, whose sentence period is less than seven years, would be released temporarily.“The pre-lockdown population in the 60 prisons across the state was over 35,000 and so far we have released over 7,200 inmates temporarily to decongest the jails,” an official from the prisons department told PTI.In all, around 17,000 jail inmates would be released on temporary bail or parole, he said.A high-powered committee appointed by the state government recently decided to release 50 per cent prisoners from various jails across the states and this figure is around 17,000, he said.The committee’s decision came after over 100 inmates and staff of central Mumbai’s Arthur Road Jail tested positive for Covid-19.The pre-lockdown population of Arthur Road Jail was 2300, of which around 700 prisoners were released, he said.There are 1572 inmates in the jail now, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/maharashtra-releases-over-7-200-prisoners-to-check-overcrowding-in-jails/story-PyCQvjC6RsPI1wuKHVSfkN.html
17-05-2020||City||4 Nanded pilgrims test positive for Covid-19||Four persons, including one woman, who had visited Takht Sri Hazur Sahib in Nanded, Maharashtra, tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the district’s count to 60. Civil surgeon Dr Rajinder Kumar said the patients had been admitted to the isolation ward of Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital here. “The patients were already in a quarantine centre and are asymptomatic. All of them are residents of Sandhwan village in Kotkapura sub-division. Now, there are 15 active Covid-19 cases in the district (excluding recoveries),” he said.Lab test results of the four after they returned from the pilgrimage had been inconclusive, Kumar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-nanded-pilgrims-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-OLKZPB6qgkQJCZfg1d9npI.html
17-05-2020||Noida||Lockdown: Day after UP govt’s order, migrants on foot stopped at Delhi border by police||Hundreds of migrant workers arrived on foot at Ghazipur in Delhi near the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border on Sunday morning to cross into Uttar Pradesh, hoping for authorities to make arrangements for them to travel in buses or trains for onward journey to their homes. This led to a build-up at the Delhi-UP Gate near Indirapuram when police stopped them from entering Ghaziabad.The Yogi Adityanath government had on Saturday asked police and administrative officials to ensure that no migrant worker travelled on foot or in vehicles such as trucks after 24 migrant workers were killed in UP’s Auraiya district when the truck they were travelling met with an accident in the early hours of Saturday morning. Sixteen of the dead had boarded the truck in an area under the jurisdiction of the Indirapuram police station in Ghaziabad.On Sunday, the police stopped the migrant workers at the UP-Gate border while they were trying to cross over to Ghaziabad in UP. Most of those who gathered there were people who had been working in Delhi and now wanted to go back to their states due to the lockdown.Ghaziabad police said that they could let migrants to enter as they were on foot and only those having valid train tickets would be allowed to enter.“We have not allowed them to walk on the highway and only those having valid train tickets will be allowed in. We have also not allowed any vehicles carrying migrant workers into Ghaziabad. Any such vehicles which have been spotted have been stopped and workers were made to de-board. Such vehicles like trucks will also face legal action,” said Anshu Jain, circle officer (Indirapuram).The migrants complained that they couldn’t make train reservations since many of them didn’t know how to do online booking.“We were made to sit at the border and not allowed to enter Ghaziabad from where we hoped to get on to some buses or trains to our hometown in Bihar. We don’t have any work now in Delhi and we need to go home now. We are not able to book train tickets online as many of us either don’t know how to do it or have mobile phones to do it,” said Iftekhar, a migrant from Purnia in Bihar who worked at Azad Market in Sadar Bazar area of Delhi.“There were people who even asked us for Rs 3000 to get the train tickets booked. We do not have so much money. So we decided to come to Ghaziabad and are now stranded at the border,” he added.Like Iftekhar, Tauseef also worked in a small factory in Delhi’s Sadar Bazar and was making curtain rings of late.“My factory has also shut tdown and the only way we can survive is to go home. But we are now stuck at the border while hundreds of migrant workers like us have already moved to UP and headed to their hometown. When we arrived here on Saturday afternoon by a bus which was headed to Noida, the cops stopped the bus and made us de-board,” said Tauseef who is native of Arariya in Bihar.“There were hundreds of migrant workers like us at the UP border but many escaped by walking alongside the (Hindon) canal area. We know that buses and trains are going from Ghaziabad but we are stranded here and have no means to book online tickets. Many migrant workers came to the border by dodging Delhi police. Although we were stopped at the border but food was provided to us,” he added.Later in the day, as hundreds of workers started coming in UP, authorities took them to different shelter homes in Ghaziabad from where their travel arrangements are being made.The UP government has given permission for operation of Shramik Special trains from Ghaziabad and Noida and trains have been running from these stations since May 15.The Uttar Pradesh government officials on Saturday said that 449 trains have arrived from other states while permission for another set of 286 trains has been given.“Within next 2-3 days when these trains arrive, about 9.5 lakh migrant workers eould have arrived in UP,” said Awanish Awasthi, UP’s additional chief secretary (home).The train services are free of cost for migrant workers but they have to register online and wait for an SMS which is sent by the state government for clearance of their train travel.Apart from the trains, UP roadways is also plying buses to different districts of the state. The UP Roadways till Saturday evening had sent about 600 buses to different areas from Morta in Ghaziabad with a seating capacity of 35 passengers as an average.The bus services have been operational for past one week and will continue for migrant workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/lockdown-day-after-up-govt-s-order-migrants-on-foot-stopped-at-delhi-border-by-police/story-xdrW79m4D7LH4kgysYBy2K.html
17-05-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka reports 54 new Covid-19 cases, state tally nears 1,200||A 54-year-old man from Udupi became the 37th Covid-19 fatality in Karnataka, where 54 new cases were added, taking the total number of infections in the state to 1,146, the health department said on Sunday.The man with cardiac issues was admitted to a private hospital in Udupi district and died due to cardiac arrest on May 14.His samples tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday, the department said in its mid-day situation report.With 37 deaths and 497 discharges, there are 611 active corona cases in the state, it said.Out of 54 new cases, twentytwo are from Mandya, ten from Kalaburagi, six from Hassan, four from Dharwad, three each from Yadgir and Kolar, two each from Dakshina Kannada and Shivamogga, and one each from Udupi and Vijayapura. Among them, 40 are those with inter-state travel history from neighboring Maharashtra, mostly from Mumbai and eight are contacts of patients already tested positive.Contact tracing was underway for three patients. At least 10 out of these fifty four cases are children. A report from Mangaluru said the man who died in Udupi had returned from Mumbai to his native Kundapur.He was under institutional quarantine at Kundapur and admitted to the Kasturba Hospital in Manipal with chest pain on May 13 and underwent a surgery. He died on Thursday due to a massive heart attack.Three staff members at the hospital who were in contact with the patient during treatment have been put under quarantine, hospital medical superintendent Dr Avinash Shetty said in a release.Udupi deputy commissioner G Jagadeesha said five persons who travelled with him from Mumbai have been quarantined. A total of 57 people are identified as his primary contacts who were quarantined with him at Kundapur inside a hall. As many as 38 others listed as his secondary contacts have also been quarantined.With this, Udupi district has recorded the first Covid-19 death, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-reports-54-new-covid-19-cases-state-tally-nears-1-200/story-JTMEdGMqDfhPPHGoZAXxCK.html
17-05-2020||Other||Teenage shooter Shivam Thakur to part ways with Hardik’s gift to raise funds||He is still trying to make a name for himself, but that has not stopped teenaged shooter Shivam Thakur from doing his bit and helping athletes who are struggling to survive the COVID-19 pandemic.At just 17, little known Shivam, who participates in 10m air pistol, said he wants to contribute 60 percent of his earnings over a period of three years to those athletes who are struggling to make their ends meet despite having the potential to represent the country.Shivam, who also played cricket at the age-group level, stated he wants to put up his kit for auction including a pair of pads which were gifted to him by India all-rounder Hardik Pandya.The shooter, who hails from Noida, earns about Rs 6-7 lakh in a year through his scholarship and funding programmes.“I want to help athletes who are struggling for finances. I have time. I want to help those athletes who have it in them to play for India but can’t because of money. I want to do my bit, whatever little I can,” Shivam told IANS on Sunday.As per the shooter, he is the brand ambassador of (School Games and Activity Development Foundation) SGADF, which he started himself in 2017 to help budding sportspersons realise their dreams.“I will try and help for the next three years. Now it is 60 percent of whatever I have earned so far through various platforms but if needed I will do more,” he said.Shivam also said he wanted to be a fast bowler growing up but a ligament injury in 2015 in Kerala put paid to his plans. “I just could not run for a long time. So I decided to take up shooting. I wanted to represent India. During my cricket playing days, Hardik bhaiya had gifted me a pair of pads. I thought along with that, I will also auction my cricket kit and add that in my bid to help the needy,” he added.Shivam has been selected to represent India in the next Youth Asian Games, slated to be held in the UAE, the European Youth Games in September and the World Youth Games in Portugal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/other-sports/teenage-shooter-shivam-thakur-to-part-ways-with-hardik-s-gift-to-raise-funds/story-Ay7IWOWhPWCVOKmTRMvDJP.html
17-05-2020||Bangalore||Issue new lockdown guidelines including permission to operate public transport: K’taka Deputy CM requests Gadkari||Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister and Transport Minister Laxman Savadi on Sunday wrote to Union Minister Nitin Gadkari requesting to issue new lockdown guidelines including permission to operate public transport and said the lockdown has caused a financial loss of Rs 16,00 crore to all four Karnataka Transport Undertakings.In view of these problems, the state Transport Minister requested Gadkari to permit the deployment of Non-AC buses on scheduled routes to ensure the adequacy of services.The four State Transport Undertakings (STUs) in Karnataka which are providing bus-based public transport services within the state and to the neighbouring states are Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC), North West Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NWKRTC), North Eastern Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NEKRTC) and Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC).“KSRTC, NWKRTC and NEKRTC operate buses for mofussil services i.e. Interdistrict, intradistrict and interstate, whereas BMTC operates only in urban and suburban areas in the city of Bengaluru. The four STUs put together hold a fleet of about 24,900 buses including 1,520 air-conditioned buses and operate about 71.00 lakh km. per day and carries about 98.00 lakh passengers every single day,” Savadi outlined in the letter.The Minister said due to the Covid-19 outbreak and the lockdown that ensued have brought regular bus operations and functioning to a grinding halt.“This has caused a devastating impact on the operations of all the four STUs due to the combination of lack of revenue and continuing fixed costs such as salaries and pensions to staff, payables against existing loans etc. It has been estimated that the lockdown has caused a financial loss of INR 1,600/- crore to these four STUs,” he added.Savadi said even after post-COVID lockdown, operations and revenues won’t reach its previous demand& supply patterns in the next six to eight months due to reduced economic activity and users’ perceived risk of contacting COVID in public transport.In addition to that, “occupancy should be allowed up to seating capacity (without standees). This is essential to meet minimal demand,” he said in the letter.“The crew should wear facemask and hand gloves. The crew with health issues should not be deployed. The face masks should be made mandatory for all the passengers. Only asymptomatic persons should be allowed to travel in public transport. The Government of India may consider staggering working hours for various sectors to reduce peak hour traffic demand,” the minister listed out these recommendations in the letter.Savadi said that with social distancing norm of reduced seating capacity in public transport, it will not be possible to provide transport facility to all the daily passengers. This will create demand for more buses, which cannot be met.“Restrictions on public transport will lead to passenger commute by overcrowding in smaller vehicles like cars, maxi cabs, goods tempos etc. which will adversely affect preventive measures,” he added.Therefore, Savadi requested Union Minister to look into the above matter and issue fresh guidelines to all the states / UT’s.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/issue-new-lockdown-guidelines-including-permission-to-operate-public-transport-k-taka-deputy-cm-requests-gadkari/story-HEB2T2IMymi2U0ZouhqXvJ.html
17-05-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Limited file movement, disinfected files in Delhi govt offices||Amid the coronavirus scare in the city, movement of files in Delhi government offices has become “limited”, with officers keeping handy gloves to sign and write comments on files related to urgent matters, officials said.Some babus have also stopped asking their peons to fetch them a glass of water or heat food in the microwave to maintain social distancing.Three officials of Delhi government, who did not wish to be named, said that if a file pertains to an urgent matter involving COVID-19 or any other important issue, it is disinfected before being placed before the official concerned.The measures come in the backdrop of several Delhi government employees being infected with coronavirus.“Most officials wear gloves before signing and writing down comments on urgent files. They sanitise hands after signing files,” an official said.There are around two lakh Delhi government employees, including about 75 IAS officers and 450 Delhi, Andaman and Nicobar Islands Civil Service (DANICS) officers. There are also 10,000 clerks and stenographers.Earlier this week, Health Minister Satyendar Jain had said that over 400 healthcare workers have been affected by COVID-19, adding that standard protocols of social distancing, wearing of masks and regular washing of hands are being followed at government offices.“The file movement in all Delhi government offices has been limited. Before the outbreak of COVID-19, hundreds of files were put up on tables of officials every day, but these days files related to urgent and important matters are being attended to,” another official said.Umesh Batra, general secretary of Delhi Government Employees Association, said government employees are at a risk of being infected as they are engaged in different duties involving COVID-19, distribution of ration and cooked food to lakhs of the needy in the city.“I will request Lt Governor Anil Baijal and Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to provide masks, gloves and hand sanitisers to all government employees as part of precautionary measures against COVID-19,” Batra said.He said that several government employees have been infected with the dreaded virus.On Sunday, the national capital reported 422 new cases, taking the total tally to 9,755. On Saturday, the death toll due to coronavirus in Delhi rose to 129.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-limited-file-movement-disinfected-files-in-delhi-govt-offices/story-9ZiwnA4a2mRZI3njyJvl9I.html
17-05-2020||Jaipur||70 more Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan, state tally reaches 5,030||Two deaths and 70 more COVID-19 cases have been reported from Rajasthan, taking the total number of coronavirus cases in the state to 5,030 on Sunday, said the state Health Department. There take been 128 deaths due to the disease in the state so far.According to the Health Department, there are 1,911 active cases of coronavirus in the state.“70 fresh cases of COVID-19 and 2 deaths have been recorded in Rajasthan, taking the total number of cases to 5,030 and death toll to 128. There are 1,911 active cases of coronavirus in the state,” the Health Department stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/70-more-covid-19-cases-in-rajasthan-state-tally-reaches-5-030/story-Cfd4vyy6Gj76pCMTBAqeJM.html
17-05-2020||Kolkata||Kolkata hospitals in a spot as nurses quit jobs, leave city amid Covid-19 crisis||The healthcare sector in Bengal is staring at a major crisis as over 300 nurses have quit their jobs at private hospitals here and left for their homes in Manipur and other parts of the country amid spurt in COVID-19 cases.The Association of Hospitals of Eastern India (AHEI), a non-statutory body with 17 private medical facilities in Kolkata as members, has written to Chief Secretary Rajiva Sinha seeking his intervention in resolving the crisis.At least 185 nurses left for Manipur earlier this week. On Saturday, 169 followed suit -- 92 hailing from Manipur, 43 from Tripura, 32 from Odisha and two from Jharkhand, sources at the city’s private hospitals said.In his letter, Pradeep Lal Mehta, the president of the AHEI, said, “Although the exact reason why they are leaving is not known, we have found out from other nurses still on duty that the state government of Manipur is offering them a lucrative stipend to return home.” Taking to Facebook, however, Manipur Chief Minister Nongthombam Biren Singh rubbished the claim and said, “No such advisory has been issued by the state. We are not asking anybody to return. We feel proud of them as they serve the patients in Calcutta, Delhi and Chennai.” “We have already said that we will compensate and reward them for treating COVID-19 patients. But if the nurses,doctors don’t feel comfortable in the hospitals where they are working that’s up to them... I cannot force them to stay there. It’s their choice. That might be the reason why they are coming back,” Singh said in a video address.A nurse, who left for Manipur earlier this week, said safety concerns and parental pressure were the two main reasons she quit her job.“Our parents are concerned and we are stressed as the cases here are rising every day. Our state is a green state and we wish to go back. Our state government is helping us. Family and parents are our priority,” one of the nurses said when contacted over phone.A senior official at Bhagirathi Neotia Woman and ChildCare Centre in central Kolkata said many nurses have submitted resignations, while some have refused to report for work.“That they were going to leave (the state) was obvious,” he said.Other private facilities in the city facing a similar predicament include RN Tagore Hospital, Medica, IRIS Multispeciality Hospital, Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals Limited, AMRI hospital, Fortis Healthcare Limited, Charnock Hospital and Belle Vue.Meanwhile, sources in the health department said the government has sought information on nurses, including their place of origin, from different hospitals here.Letters have been sent to the respective hospital authorities, the sources added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/kolkata-hospitals-in-a-spot-as-nurses-quit-jobs-leave-city-amid-covid-19-crisis/story-RZXJV4F4Pqk3v4RneGIG1H.html
17-05-2020||Bangalore||10 trains from Karnataka ferry 12,681 migrants back home||Ten special trains ferried 12,681 migrant workers to their respective home states amid the nationwide lockdown from Karnataka, an official said on Saturday.“Saturday’s first Shramik special train from South Western Railway (SWR) zone overall second from Mysuru division and 55th from SWR has left Kabakaputtur at 2 p.m. with 1,520 passengers for Lucknow in Uttar Pradesh,” said a SWR zone official.Saturday’s second train with 1,520 migrants departed at 3.08 p.m. for Ashokapuram in Mysuru to Gorkahpur in UP.The third special train departed Malur station for Darbhanga in Bihar at 4.50 p.m. with 1,457 migrants.The fourth train left Chikka Bannavara station for Nargundi in Odisha at 4.30 p.m. with 1,518 passengers.The fifth train from Chikka Bannavara left for Lucknow at 6 p.m. with 1,515 migrants.The sixth special train left at 7.15 p.m. from Malur to Purnia in Bihar with 1,299 migrants.Saturday’s seventh special train left Chikka Bannavara station to Malda Town in West Bengal at 8 p.m. with 985 passengers.The eighth special train from Hubli division left Ballari station for Saharsa in Bihar at 9.25 p.m. with 1,395 passengers.Ninth train departed Chikka Bannavara station for Nergundi in Odisha at 10.05 p.m. with 1,278 passengers.Saturday’s tenth train and last train left Malur for Dhanbad in Jhakhand with 1,472 passengers at 9.05 p.m.“Total 10 trains from SWR on Saturday. Overall count 64 now,” said an official.The SWR zone has operated 64 special trains so far to transport migrants back home.The special trains are being run following the Union Ministry of Home Affairs permission for the movement of stranded migrant labourers, workers, students, tourists and others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/10-trains-from-karnataka-ferry-12-681-migrants-back-home/story-mlZRvyJ3BL6sJtmvOuoKdL.html
17-05-2020||Kolkata||IMD issues cyclone alert for West Bengal, Bangladesh coasts||The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), Bhubaneswar on Sunday issued a yellow alert stating that West Bengal and Bangladesh coasts are likely to be affected by cyclonic storm ‘AMPHAN’ which is brewing over Southeast Bay of Bengal.“Cyclone Alert for West Bengal and Bangladesh Coasts: Yellow Message,” stated the weather department.The IMD, Bhubaneswar also stated that cyclonic storm AMPHAN is very likely to intensify further into a “Severe Cyclonic Storm” during next six hours and into a “Very Severe Cyclonic Storm” during subsequent 12 hours.“Cyclone Amphan is likely to make landfall in between Sagar Islands (West Bengal) and Hatiya Islands (Bangladesh) during the afternoon/evening of May 20 as a very severe cyclonic storm,” said HR Biswas, Director of IMD Bhubaneswar while speaking to media.The IMD has also predicted “light to moderate rain or thundershower over the districts of coastal Odisha and Koraput.”“Heavy rainfall very likely to occur at isolated places over the district of Gajapati, Ganjam, Puri, Jagatsinghpur and Kendrapara. Rainfall will commence from 18th May evening,” the advisory from IMD read.The weatherman further predicted that sea condition will be very high over southwest and adjoining central Bay of Bengal during next 24 hours.“It will become phenomenal over southern parts of central Bay of Bengal from tonight, over northern parts of central Bay of Bengal and adjoining north Bay of Bengal on 19th May and over north Bay of Bengal on 20th May 2020.”The fishermen have been advised not to venture into south Bay of Bengal till May 17, to central Bay of Bengal during 17 to 18 May and North Bay of Bengal during 19 to 20 May 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/imd-issues-cyclone-alert-for-west-bengal-bangladesh-coasts/story-65aFaw4bA95oIAlHBDvuyH.html
17-05-2020||Education||Without fees, private schools struggle to pay teachers’ salary||Over 20,000 teachers and 6,000 employees of 600 private unaided budget schools in the state have either not been paid salaries or just received a part of it since March. The situation is unlikely to improve anytime soon as school managements claim inability to pay teachers’ salaries due to parents not depositing fees.The management of these schools claim they don’t have resources to pay teachers.“Majority of poor parents are unable to pay fees. Hence we too are unable to pay salaries to teachers and staff during this lockdown. Ours is a budget school where we take nominal fees from parents,” said president, association of private schools of UP, Atul Kumar who is the owner of St Basil School.He admitted teachers were made part-payment in March and nothing in April or May. President of unaided private school association (UPSA) Anil Agarwal has issued an appeal to parents to pay fees. “I would make a fervent appeal to parents to pay the fees as this has posed a problem in payment of salaries and overheads like electricity bills, IT overheads, provident fund as we don’t have any other source of income,” said Agarwal. “There is however no pressure on those who cannot pay but majority of stakeholders choose private schools because they can afford it. There has been no increase in fees keeping in mind the pandemic and only monthly fees is being asked for. In these trying times therefore parents must come out to show their solidarity to the cause of education,” he added. The UPSA has written to Lucknow district magistrate, Abhishek Prakash to direct parents to pay the fees, at least for April. President of Prelude School, Agra, Sushil Gupta said the institutions were only able to pay half the salary to teachers. “Situation is unlikely to improve in near future as more than 60% of total fees is spent in salary of teachers and non-teaching staff,” he said.Principal of Gyan Kunj Montessori School in Indira Nagar, A block, Adila Singh said economically weaker section parents have enrolled their children in her school. “They are unable to pay fees regularly even on normal days, leave alone lockdown period,” Singh said.Owner of St Marys School, Gaurav Shukla who runs six branches said they are making part payment to teachers and employees as and when they are getting fees from parents. “Despite the fact that we aren’t getting fees, the school will make payments for 450 teachers and 200 non teaching staff in 15 branches till May and June. But from July it is going to be very difficult,” said principal of Pioneer Montessori School, Sharmila Singh. A number of schools said many parents weren’t paying fees as they hope the state government would announce fee waiver.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/without-fees-private-schools-struggle-to-pay-teachers-salary/story-ZPYr8sf41zihwyzgTR7UVP.html
17-05-2020||Patna||33 more test positive for Covid-19 in Bihar, total count 1,178||At least 33 more people, including a 65-year-old woman, have tested positive for COVID-19 in Bihar, raising the total count in the state to 1,178, a top health department official said.Of the 33 that tested positive, Madhubani district accounts for the maximum number of cases at 14, followed by Bhojpur at six and Samastipur at three, Sanjay Kumar, the principal secretary of the state health department, said.Two cases each were reported from Jamui, Purnea and Siwan and one each from Patna, Bhagalpur, Kaimur and Lakhisarai, he said.“33 more covid-19 +ve cases in Bihar taking the total to 1178.We are ascertaining their further infection trail,” Kumar tweeted late on Saturday.He also attached with his tweet a list mentioning the age and location of the 33 patients.Taking into account the new patients, the number of active cases rose to 718.Seven people have died of COVID-19 in Bihar so far -- two in Patna and one each from Rohtas, Munger, Vaishali, East Champaran and Sitamarhi. All seven had pre-existing ailments.Altogether 453 people have recovered from the disease.The number of migrants who tested positive for the disease following their return from Delhi, Gujarat and Maharashtra among other states stood at 454.As many as 44,340 samples have been examined for COVID-19 so far at seven facilities of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/33-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-bihar-total-count-1-178/story-CRsLjsrfsQTH6kqa5QDrRJ.html
17-05-2020||Delhi||More people recovered from Covid-19 in Delhi during Lockdown 3: Data||The number of patients recovering from coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Delhi during the third phase of the lockdown has tripled compared to the first two phases, data from the government shows.According to the data released by the Delhi government, 1,362 people in Delhi had recovered from Covid-19 till May 3 before Lockdown.3. At the same time, the number of people recovering has increased almost three times in the first 13 days of Lockdown.3 from May 4 to May 16. As of May 16, 3,926 people in Delhi have been cured.The death toll due to Covid-19 was highest among the elderly in the national capital, Delhi government officials have said. There were 62 people who were 60 or older who died due to the respiratory illness.At the same time, the death toll of people between the ages of 50 to 59 is 35, while the number of deaths of people under 50 is 26. Officials say people under the age of 50 are more prone to contracting the infection.The Arvind Kejriwal-led Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government took several steps during the three phases of the lockdown.During the first phase of the lockdown, the government worked on the 5T scheme, launched Operation Shield for hotspots, sent more than 50,000 people to home quarantine, started treatment of Covid-19 patients in LNJP, GB Pant, Rajiv Gandhi, Apollo, Saket and Gangaram hospitals and banned a gathering more than three people.It launched sanitation campaign in hotspots, a website for financial assistance to auto-rickshaw and taxi drivers, even-odd rules in fruit-vegetable mandis, containment app to monitor home quarantine people and Happiness classes for children at home during the second phase.In the third phase, it gave approval for isolation of Covid-19 patients at homes, a team of doctors was formed to monitor patients in homes, the number of containment zones reduced from 96 to 76 and banned people connected with non-essential services from 7am to 7pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/more-people-recovered-from-covid-19-in-delhi-during-lockdown-3-data/story-59pfnjgTO26IhOh4QU8k9N.html
17-05-2020||Chandigarh||25,000 migrants leave for home on Shramik trains from Punjab, Chandigarh||More than 25,000 migrants left for their hometowns on 21 trains from different railway stations of Punjab and Chandigarh on Saturday.Ferozepur divisional railway manager Rajesh Agarwal said that 15 trains departed from the Ferozepur division on Saturday, including six from Ludhiana, five from Jalandhar city and two each from Ferozepur and Amritsar railway stations. As of now, more than 1.4lakh migrants have been sent to their home states-- Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal.As many as six trains, with around 1,200 passengers in each train, departed from stations of Punjab and Chandigarh, under the Ambala division, on Saturday. These trains included two trains each from Chandigarh, Patiala and SAS Nagar (Mohali).Increasing the frequency of trains, the Ludhiana administration has decided to run 10 Shramik special trains on Sunday. It will be the highest number of trains departing from a single station in a day.OVER 1.7 LAKH MIGRANTS SENT HOMEOver 1.7lakh migrants have been sent home from Punjab in the last 11 days via Shramik special trains.Since May 5, as many as 144 trains departed from different stations of Punjab, of which 119 left from four stations of the Ferozepur division and 25 from the Ambala division.Of the total migrants transported from Punjab, around 82% have been sent by the trains operated by the Ferozepur division.LUDHIANA ADMN TO START BUSES FOR 10 UP DISTRICTS Ludhiana deputy commissioner Pradeep Agrawal on Saturday announced that the Uttar Pradesh government has agreed to let its natives travel home from Ludhiana. “We have got permission to send buses to 10 districts— Mathura, Meerut, Saharanpur, Bulandshahar, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Ghaziabad, Aligarh, Muzaffarnagar, Baghpat and Hapur. We are making arrangements for buses and the migrants will be informed through SMS about the facility,” he said.He added that the administration is also coordinating with the Bihar government for permission to send its natives home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/25-000-migrants-leave-for-home-on-shramik-train-from-punjab-chandigarh/story-V5gFKLfM7YiYFRd7lWqNgJ.html
17-05-2020||City||Son of retired ASI opens fire at police party in Ludhiana in bid to avoid checkpoint||The son of a retired assistant sub-inspector (ASI) opened fire at a police party in Ludhiana in a bid to escape as police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal and his security personnel gave him a chase after he jumped a checkpoint on Saturday afternoon. The accused identified as Sukhwinder Singh, 35, son of ASI Ram Kishan (retd), also tried to run over some cops.Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said that he was at one of the checkpoints, when he noticed a car jumping the checkpoint. He immediately ordered his personnel to stop the car but the accused managed to give them a slip.“An alert was immediately sounded in the city. The accused jumped at least six checkpoints and tried to run over the police personnel at Samrala Chowk and also hit the barricades before he was nabbed at Ladhowal,” said the police chief.After receiving an alert, the Ladhowal police set up barricades on the road. Inspector Balwinder Singh, Ladhowal station house officer, said the accused was driving rashly and on seeing the police party, he tried take a u-turn. In a bid of escape, his car crashed into the road divider. “When we moved forward, the accused flashed a gun and opened fire on the police party. We had a narrow escape but the accused was hit in the thigh during cross fire,” the SHO said.The accused has been admitted to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) for treatment. Police have recovered a .315 bore countrymade pistol, two bullets, one shell and 10 gm heroin from his possession. Police have also seized his Honda Jazz car (PB10EJ7777). His aide Prem Verma, who was in the car, was also arrested but he claimed to not know Parminder and said that he had only taken a lift. A case of attempt to murder, opening fire on police personnel, possessing arms and drugs has been registered against the accused.FATHER COMES TO ACCUSED’S DEFENCEASI Ram Kishan said that his son Sukhwinder Singh is under depression. He claimed that his son might have made a mistake and jumped the checkpoints in a bid of escape, but he does not possess any illegal weapon.Ram Kishan added that as Sukhwinder Singh is dealing with depression, he has been availing treatment from a local doctor for the past five years. “Due to the lockdown, he was irregular in taking medicines following which, his condition worsened. He had no sleep for the past three nights,” he said.“On Saturday he had an appointment with the doctor. As there was a long queue at the clinic, Sukhwinder asked me to stay there to wait for his turn, as he wanted to take a round of his office in Feroze Gandhi market. After sometime when I called Sukhwinder, he did not answered the phone. After repeated calls, when Sukhwinder did not respond, I left the clinic. Later, I came to know about the incident and rushed to Ladhowal police station,” said Ram Kishan.“Sukhwinder might have made a big mistake and the police have opened fire on him to overpower him, but he is not a gangster. He does not possess a weapon. He drinks occasionally, but he is not a drug addict. I have met the police chief and explained our position,”he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/son-of-retired-asi-opens-fire-at-police-party-in-bid-to-avoid-checkpoint/story-r88BI9Xskvpws9Gks9pRKJ.html
17-05-2020||Mumbai||IIT-Bombay develops wash-resistant antiviral coating for masks||With masks helping to contain the spread of Covid-19, the Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay (IIT-B) has developed a wash-resistant antiviral and antibacterial coating for textiles. IIT-B has filed two patents regarding this technology.Known as the Duraprot technology, the coating crosslinks antibacterial and antiviral components on to the textile’s fibres through a simple dipping process. The coating is retained after several wash cycles and has been tested for 20 wash cycles — a prerequisite as per textile guidelines — at the IIT-B laboratory.“There has been an urgent need for personal protective equipment including two- and three-ply masks, N95 masks and gowns for healthcare workers. One approach is to enhance the functionality of two and three-ply masks with antibacterial and antiviral properties, “ said Rinti Banerjee, the Madhuri Sinha chair professor at IIT-B’s department of biosciences and bioengineering. “The coating materials are low cost and the idea is develop and scale up masks with antiviral activities at an affordable cost,” Banerjee said.Originally, Banerjee and her team had developed the antibacterial coating for medical textiles such as hospital gowns, bedsheets and consumer products (like socks and underclothes). The efficacy of the coating has been tested against samples of the Sars-Cov-2 virus in the laboratory. “When we tested the Duraprot coating against coronavirus samples from Kasturba hospital, there was a breakdown of the envelope inactivating the coronavirus,” said Banerjee.At present Duraprot technology is licensed to Meemansa, a Mumbai-based textile and garment manufacturing company. “We have sent the fabric with coating for validation to an external testing agency. We are expecting the results mid-next week after which we will begin the process of coating the masks that we have already manufactured,” said Priyanka Bapna, founder of Meemansa. “The process of coating masks takes two days followed by drying them naturally right now since our factories are closed. Once the lockdown lifts, we will dip the entire fabric in the mixture before manufacturing the products,” she said.Banerjee said talks are also on with two to three other textile manufacturers. “We are maintaining non-exclusive licensing due to the scale of the epidemic and will transfer our technology to multiple textile manufacturers. We will teach them how to prepare the coating mixture, and walk them through the process,” said Banerjee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/iit-bombay-develops-wash-resistant-antiviral-coating-for-masks/story-55fVQlAENm0otrdem5EnaP.html
17-05-2020||City||1,463 migrants leave for Bihar from Maharashtra’s Kalyan||More than 1,400 migrants from Bihar boarded the Shramik Special train from Kalyan railway station on Saturday evening at 3.50pm to Gaya district. “The train was scheduled at 2.pm, but the journey was delayed because passengers had to be screened before boarding the train. Hence, the train departed at 3.50pm with total 1,463 passengers to Gaya railway station in Bihar,” an official from Kalyan railway station said.Passengers who registered for this train came from Kalyan, Dombivli, Ulhasnagar, Ambernath, Badlapur and Karjat.“The train has 24 compartments, in which passengers were accommodated ensuring social distancing norms,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1-463-migrants-leave-for-bihar-from-maharashtra-s-kalyan/story-PGS0xoM6N3cHcIhWRoLjSL.html
17-05-2020||City||6 lakh migrants in Maharashtra’s Bhiwandi left in lurch amid lockdown||Forty-two-year-old Sayantan Gupta has been running from pillar to post from the past one week to get a chance to board any of the buses or trains that head to his hometown Jaunpur in Uttar Pradesh. However, despite repeated attempts, he was unable to do so and continues to live in his rented one-room house with five other men in Bhiwandi’s Padmanagar area. Bhiwandi has more than 10 lakh power loom factories, where migrant labourers are employed. “Although announcements regarding buses heading to different states are being made, we have no idea how to reserve a seat. I have visited various government offices and even the bus depots and train stations but have not received much help. The past one month-and-a-half has been very frustrating, living in a small room with five others without sufficient food to eat. Back home we have a farm. I will be with my family and get basic food items, which will be helpful to survive this lockdown,” said Gupta.Gupta’s tale is similar to what many of the around 6 lakh migrant loom workers in Bhiwandi, who had been struggling to make ends meet due to the lockdown. Some of them have managed to go back home. Most of these labourers are staying without their families and are unable to send money back home as they have not received wages since March 15. Many of them are surviving only on water or some days manage to get one meal.Although provisions for community kitchens have been made at various places across Bhiwandi, they do not seem to be sufficient, say migrants. “We stand in long queues at community kitchens but before our turn comes, the food gets over. It’s really difficult to survive as we have no money to buy groceries,” said Rakesh Yadav, 34, another loom worker from Kamatghar.Yadav said he has survived on water for many days. “On the days we are very hungry and have no food, we gulp down lots of water. We do not deserve such inhuman treatment. The authorities should have given us groceries, then we would have managed to cook something better,” he added.Meanwhile, migrant labourers who are observing their Ramzan fast are forced to break the fast with just water as they lack enough money to buy proper food. “We do not have the strength to go looking for food. If the community kitchen near our house provides us with lunch, we save it for iftaar [meal while breaking the fast]. Otherwise, we rely on just plain water and sleep empty stomach. On some days, our neighbours or friends get food for us,” said Aslam Sheikh, 35, a resident of Nayi Basti.With the migrant crisis getting worse, many social organisations have come together to ensure that food reaches the lakhs of migrant workers stranded in Bhiwandi. But they said community kitchens need to be better organised.“Although there are many social organisations and a few community kitchens that have stepped up to provide food and groceries, there is no logistical distribution. There could be some areas where the same people have received meals more than once and a few others who stay hungry all through the day,” said Govind Sharma, President, Samvaad Foundation. Social organisations also worry that they can continue giving free meals only till their donations last. Meanwhile, power loom owners and labourers are also worried about the post-lockdown scenario. Jivraj Nagariya, chairman, Power Loom Owners’ Federation, Bhiwandi, said, “After the lockdown, getting back to business will be very difficult as many labourers are heading back to their homes. We have to start all over, right from getting raw materials to restarting the factories after the lockdown ends. We will need the government’s support to spring back to business.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/6-lakh-migrants-in-maharashtra-s-bhiwandi-left-in-lurch-amid-lockdown/story-Xy0Je5zUI4AY86cg7qMAHP.html
17-05-2020||Mumbai||3.86 lakh migrant workers left Maharashtra in 12K buses, 191 trains: State government||The state government on Saturday said that around 3.86 lakh migrant workers had returned to their home states from Maharashtra through 191 trains and around 12,000 buses. The state also informed that the Bihar and West Bengal governments were earlier not willing to take back the workers who hailed from the two states. However, after talks with the respective state leaderships, Bihar and West Bengal agreed for the migrants’ return, following which the first Shramik Special train for West Bengal left from Mumbai on Saturday morning.Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh said that the state government has sent 2.45 lakh migrant workers to their respective states through 191 trains so far. “Only two states, West Bengal and Bihar, were not ready to take back their workers. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and NCP [Nationalist Congress Party] chief Sharad Pawar personally spoke to Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, after which the issue was resolved,” Deshmukh said.The home minister added that the crowd of stranded migrant workers can be controlled if around 10 trains leave for Bihar and West Bengal everyday.Deshmukh also said that the state government is bearing the cost of the train tickets to ferry the migrants home, as Thackeray had approved funds worth ₹54.40 crore from the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund. Meanwhile, the chief minister’s office, in a press release, said that the state has sent 1.41 lakh migrant workers to Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Telangana, Chhattisgarh and Karnataka on 11,798 state transport (ST) buses. Twenty-five trains operate from Maharashtra everyday to take back migrant workers to their home states.Most number of trains (117) had departed from various stations across the state for Uttar Pradesh, followed by Bihar (26), Madhya Pradesh (21), Rajasthan (9), Odisha (7), Jharkhand (5), Karnataka (3), Jammu (2) and Andhra Pradesh (1).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/3-86-lakh-migrant-workers-left-maharashtra-in-12k-buses-191-trains-state-government/story-hvK8HibB1Nh9irab2TNMtO.html
17-05-2020||City||Covid-19 outbreak: Mumbai civic body to start clinical trials for Remdesivir at Nair Hospital||After testing a drug used for psoriasis, Itolizumab, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to start clinical trials for Remdesivir, an antiviral drug used for treatment of Ebola, on Covid-19 at BYL Nair Hospital.Remdesivir is an experimental antiviral drug developed by the US-based pharma major Gilead Sciences in 2014 as a cure for Ebola. Since then, it has been used to treat Middle East Respiratory Syndrome and Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, both of which are caused by other strains of the coronavirus. It has been found to effectively block Sars-CoV-2 virus and boost recovery among coronavirus patients. With the cases set to surpass the 18,000 mark, the BMC is keen on improving the recovery rate. “Clinical trials of Remdesivir in other countries have shown success in treating coronavirus patients. It doesn’t cure patients like Tamiflu, but helps reduce the recovery time from 11-15 days, resulting in faster discharge,” said Suresh Kakani, assistant commissioner (health), BMC. The World Health Organization (WHO) in a statement said, “It works by shutting down viral replication.”Explaining how the drug works, Dr Om Srivastava, a city-based epidemiologist, said, “Sars-Cov-2, which causes Covid-19, has a single Ribonucleic acid (RNA) segment which duplicates as it infects cells using an enzyme— polymerase. This enzyme strings together with new strands of RNA. The RNA is composed of four bases. Remdesivir is an analog that closely resembles one of those bases— Adenine. So, when the drug is injected into the body, the virus grabs the Remdesivir and inserts it into the RNA. Thus, it corrupts the RNA and stops it from producing more virus.”To obtain the quickest scientific data to treat patients with Covid-19, WHO has announced a ‘solidarity trial’ where thousands of patients all across the world are encouraged to try the promising drug and disclose the findings. The international health community has maintained that of the drugs in the WHO solidarity trial, Remdesivir has the best potential — the drug shows that it can be used in high doses without causing toxicities. The US National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) conducted a study of Remdesivir on 1,063 patients and found success. Again, in a study conducted by Dr Aruna Subramanian, a clinical professor of medicine and infectious diseases at Stanford University School of Medicine in California, 50% of patients who were given 5mg of the drug improved in 10 days. However, a study published in international science journal Lancet under ‘Remdesivir in adults with severe COVID-19: a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicentre trial’ state that “Remdesivir did not provide significant clinical or antiviral effects in seriously ill patients with Covid-19.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bmc-to-start-clinical-trials-for-remdesivir-at-nair-hospital/story-ryfwmXWzhMmOtRiuqLAsaN.html
17-05-2020||Chandigarh||Expressing grief, dealing with solitude through art in times of Covid-19||The artists of Le Corbusier’s city have taken it upon themselves to express the grief of loss and experience with stillness and healing during the lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic. So, the months April and May have yielded over a 100 works of art in different mediums by artists young and senior.The first collection of paintings and sculptures by 30 artists of the city has been mounted in a well-curated online show. It is interesting indeed to see how each artist in his or her own unique way has responded to a season in which the human species remained confined indoors as nature reclaimed its spaces free of pollution.Each artist has a story to tell. Interestingly, sculptor Vishal Bhatnagar was without his sculpting tools and material at home during the lockdown. “I watched my wife Reena make paintings and yearned to do some work too. Finally, I came across some mango wood used for havan (ritual by fire) and the sacred red cotton thread called mauli. So I worked on these and the result is a very interesting form resembling a bull pushing through troubled times made of pieces of wood held together by red thread,” says Bhatnagar.Meanwhile, his wife Reena did a series of paintings in her usual architectural motifs capturing in colour the form of Le Corbusier’s city sans its people.For Daphy Brar, a fashion designer exploring the artist within her, this is a time of great personal sorrow as her mother passed away a few days before the lockdown. “The first painting I made was that of my mother with her face painted in monochrome, flaming pink petals for hair. It was a painting of grave loss but also a celebration of her life and spirit. This led me to make other portraits of friends and others who have enriched my life in motifs of cheer against the dark blues of the skies,” she says.Among the other artists included in the show are Madan Lal, Satwant Singh, Jaskanwal Jit, Vijay Ozo, Mahesh Prajapati and others. Naturescapes by Bheem as well as Lippi Parida deserve a mention. One now waits for more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/expressing-grief-dealing-with-solitude-through-art-in-times-of-covid-19/story-hrC3i8FFyNsOydrkyvhiBJ.html
17-05-2020||Mumbai||Record spike takes Maha case tally past 30K; toll jumps by 67||Maharashtra on Saturday recorded its highest single-day jump in Covid-19 cases with 1,606 new infections, bringing the case count past 30,000 to 30,706.The state’s toll jumped by 67 deaths to 1,135. Only 22 of the 67 deaths occurred in the 24-hour period, while the remaining – 45 -- deaths had occurred between April 14 and May 14 and were added to the total on Saturday, the state health department said.Of the 67 casualties, Mumbai recorded 41, taking its death toll to 696.Besides Mumbai, Thane and Pune recorded seven deaths each, five in Aurangabad, three in Jalgaon, two in Mira-Bhayander and one each in Nashik and Solapur.On Saturday, Mumbai recorded 884 new coronavirus infections, taking the tally to 18,555, the state health department said. Pune recorded 161 new Covid-19 cases, while Thane recorded 114, Navi Mumbai 105 and Aurangabad 93.The state has so far registered 15,181 cases in the third phase of the lockdown, which is higher than the total it recorded in the 19-day lockdown between April 15 and May 3. In the second phase of the lockdown, Maharashtra recorded 11,627 Covid-19 cases.State health minister Rajesh Tope said that the lockdown has helped restrict the spread of the disease in the state. He added that the doubling rate has also increased during the lockdown period in Mumbai and the overall state.The doubling rate — the number of days it takes for Covid-19 cases to double — has improved, he said. The state’s doubling rate is at 11.5 days, while Mumbai’s stands at 14 days. State health minister Rajesh Tope said, “The doubling rate has increased to 14 days in Mumbai now. This is a big improvement from the earlier doubling rate of 7 to 8 days. Elsewhere in the state, too, we are trying to contain the spread in hotspots. We are working towards stricter enforcement of lockdown in such containment areas, so that cases reduce.”The state health minister has already said that Maharashtra would see the peak of the Covid-19 outbreak by June-end. He said that they are preparing for a projection of over 50,000 cases in Mumbai in three weeks. “There are various projects. Some mathematical projections haven’t been accurate, but we are preparing for the worst. Currently, Mumbai has about 17,500 cases. It could increase three times by around June 20; so it would go over 50,000. We are preparing accordingly,” he said.As the fourth phase of the lockdown starts from May 18, it is expected to have even more relaxations for industries and businesses in districts that fall in the green and the orange zones.For the red zone, the state government is open to allowing further relaxations outside the containment area; a decision is expected next week.A senior bureaucrat said, “We are awaiting Centre’s directives for lockdown protocol in the red zone. As the PM had indicated in his last address that the next phase would be different, we expect that more activities would be allowed outside containment areas. The sense among decision-makers is that we have to live with Covid-19.” The Centre is yet to issue guidelines for the next phase, following which the Maharashtra government would issue its guidelines.State home minister Anil Deshmukh said that over 2.45 lakh migrant labourers have been sent back to their home states by 191 Shramik trains. He added that the first trains carrying migrant workers to Bihar and West Bengal, which had so far disallowed labourers to come back, departed from Maharashtra on Saturday.“Around 2.45 lakh migrant workers have been sent to their respective home states by running 191 train services till now. We could not send trains to Bihar and West Bengal since these states did not allow it. But [NCP chief] Sharad Pawar and chief minister Thackeray personally spoke to West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee and Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar over the phone. Today, the first trains carrying migrant workers to West Bengal and Bihar were sent,” Deshmukh said in a video message.The trains are being run from parts of Maharashtra to Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Jammu and Kashmir, Jharkhand and Andhra Pradesh. Deshmukh also informed that 3,71,310 migrant workers have been kept in 3,884 shelters across the state and the state government has arranged for their food.Continuing the evacuation of migrants who are desperate to return to their homes, the Maharashtra State Transport Corporation (MSRTC) has, so far, ferried 1.42 lakh migrant workers in 11,380 buses to the state’s borders.Meanwhile, as cases in Kolhapur have started to climb up, the district’s guardian minister Satej Patil has said that people from red zones such as Mumbai and Pune should not come to Kolhapur. He said that 22 of the 36 cases in the district are related to people coming from the red zone.“Under the pretext of medical emergency, thousands of people are entering Kolhapur from red zones such as Mumbai and Pune. Most of the cases that are there in Kolhapur are from people coming from outside. Therefore, I appeal to people that those who have facilities to live in Mumbai and Pune should remain there. Only those with genuine need or emergency should come here. We need to see that the coronavirus cases do not spread in Kolhapur,” he told new channels.He added that with over 20,000 people entering the district since movement was allowed with requisite permission, the influx has added burden on the state administration. The institutional quarantine facilities in the district are teeming with people and it is expected to run out of space, an official from the district collector office said. “Swab tests are being done of people entering. Till results come, they have to be kept in quarantine facilities and it is adding to the burden. We have requested the state police to add that permission from Kolhapur collector is needed before allowing people into the district,” Patil added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/record-spike-takes-maha-case-tally-past-30k-toll-jumps-by-67/story-zWFRvUtYAVd4P0k31Z8a9L.html
17-05-2020||City||2 feared dead, 4 rescued in Ramban, Kashmir highway blocked||Two persons are feared dead and four others have been rescued after a slope of hillock came crashing down on the Jammu-Srinagar highway in Ramban district late on Saturday evening.Ramban district police chief, SSP Haseeb Ur Rehman, said, “Workers of NHAI were on the job on the slope. They were cutting rocks off the hill with machines when it fell off. The incident took place at Seri at around 7pm.”Four persons were rescued but two still remain buried under the debris. “A rescue operation is on, but their chances of survival look grim. A JCB machine is also buried under the debris,” he added.The officer said that hit by the debris a dumper fell off the Kashmir highway into a nearby gorge. The Jammu-Srinagar highway has also been blocked by the debris.Initial reports from the site state that three dumpers, a truck, a load-carrier and a JCB machine are under the debris. Ramban DC Nazim Zai Khan said, “The search operation will continue till we retrieve all those who were hit by the landslide.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-feared-dead-4-rescued-in-ramban-kashmir-highway-blocked/story-Xo5OwKzBKbCwoo3q0k3CYI.html
17-05-2020||City||J&K admn allows home delivery of bakery items on Eid, to hold training session for bakers||Amid the coronavirus enforced lockdown, Eid celebrations in Kashmir will be a simple affair.The administration has allowed home delivery of bakery items in Srinagar in the run-up Eid falling by the end of this month.The administration has started giving training to bakers to sensitise them about precautions they need to follow for personal safety, production and home distribution of the bakeries to households.This is the first step as part of the month-long plan to give training to some 10,000 service providers like vegetable sellers, milk suppliers, hairdressers, laundry, public transport, and telecommunications aimed at a ‘guarded exit’ from the ongoing lockdown.On Friday, the Srinagar administration launched a two-week-long training programme for various service providers and the first module of the training was meant for more than 500 workers of around 180 bakeries in Srinagar city.“The existence of coronavirus pandemic is a reality and that people will have to learn to live with it, though following all precautions is crucial,” said Srinagar deputy commissioner Shahid Iqbal Choudhary while launching the module.Choudhary said all main services providers will be trained about precautions, hygiene, social distancing and other notified protocols during the programme.A government spokesperson said that the bakery sector has been chosen for opening in view of the upcoming Eid festival and the bakers will be tested for Covid-19 before being allowed to proceed.Eid-ul-Fitr falls on May 24 or 25 depending on the appearance of the moon and people are expected to celebrate it indoors owing to the lockdown which was imposed mid-March to contain the spread of Covid-19. The number of Covid-19 cases has crossed the 1000-mark with 11 deaths in the Union territory.This is the second time that Eid is being celebrated under lockdown in Kashmir. Last year, it was when the special status of the UT was revoked in August and the region put under restrictions.President Bakers and Confectioners Association, Omar Mukhtar said that the administration will train workers of around 421 of their registered units across the Valley of which some 180 are in Srinagar.“All our happy moments are incomplete without bakery. It is our tradition and we are happy that we have been allowed to home deliver on Eid,” he said.Every year, Kashmiris consume around ₹5 crore worth bakery products on Eid every year besides the daily consumption.Mukhtar said that every bakery unit has been asked to maintain a minimum number of workers in a safe and hygienic framework and they will be reducing their production. “We will be producing some one-third of what we used to produce during normal days,” he said.Bakers have been instructed to only sell packed products and to avoid loose bakery items. The units have to cater to their own localities only within a radius of 3-4 km.The training modules for service providers include a range of aspects including training certificates to participants, PPE kits, protective gear, Covid-19 tests, specially designed service tokens, movement passes, IT apps and online facilitation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-admn-allows-home-delivery-of-bakery-items-on-eid-to-hold-training-session-for-bakers/story-fWaY83zJp4AgiLHCgVtmTL.html
17-05-2020||Chandigarh||MHA found no fault with admn’s curfew relaxations: UT adviser||The UT administration said on Saturday that the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) has found no fault in the curfew relaxations allowed in Chandigarh.Following MHA orders, the UT on May 3 had lifted the curfew allowing inter-city movement, unrestricted movement of vehicles, opening of industrial activities and neighbourhood markets, besides other places like Sukhna Lake. On Thursday, advocate Pankaj Chandgothia had filed a public interest litigation (PIL) before the Punjab and Haryana high court, claiming that UT had violated the MHA guidelines. Disposing of the matter on Friday, HC had left it to MHA to examine the orders with UT and make changes if the relaxations by the latter were not in consonance with the ministry’s guidelines.UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida said after HC directions, UT and MHA officials held a video conferencing meeting on Saturday in which the curfew relaxations in the UT were thoroughly examined. “The meeting was exhaustive and MHA found no fault in UT’s orders. MHA also said there is no need to issue any corrigendum.”‘THREE CONTENTIONS ADDRESSED’Parida said that the PIL had three major contentions — allowing inter-city movement, opening of sector markets and opening of Sukhna Lake.“MHA was convinced when we told them that inter-city movement was required in Chandigarh since the city was the joint capital of both Haryana and Punjab. Their governments can’t be closed down as they have to operate from here. Moreover, Chandigarh is part of the tricity, where the three towns are dependent on each other,” said Parida.He added that the decision to open sector markets was also endorsed by the ministry since these markets fell within the definition of neighbourhood markets as allowed in the MHA orders.“Ministry appreciated the decision of the UT to introduce the odd-even formula in opening the sector markets,” said Parida. On the opening of entertainment places, Parida said, “We told the MHA that Sukhna Lake was not a place of entertainment. Only walking is allowed there.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mha-found-no-fault-with-admn-s-curfew-relaxations-ut-adviser/story-3ammnZsCyWe7EXyPwAGYXO.html
17-05-2020||Gurugram||Govt arranges 20 special buses to evacuate 470 J&K residents from Haryana||The administration has embarked upon the Haryana-Migrant Workers Evacuation Plan to evacuate 470 Jammu and Kashmir migrant workers from 12 districts of Haryana stranded there due to coronavirus enforced lockdown.In this regard, the government has arranged a fleet of 20 buses to get these migrants back to their homes.Meanwhile, the Jammu district administration on Saturday received the third special train carrying 952 passengers of various districts of Union territory. So far, three trains have reached Jammu with a total of 2,870 stranded passengers belonging to different districts.Jammu deputy commissioner Sushma Chauhan, who is supervising the whole process of boarding and de-boarding of returnees at Jammu railway station, said that 100% sampling of returnees has been done at the kiosks established by the district administration at the station. Besides, an elaborate transport system has been put in place to take the passengers to their native districts for administrative quarantine amidst strict adherence to the guidelines issued by MHA regarding Covid-19, she added.Additionally, the government has evacuated about 3,178 stranded residents of J&K from May 15-16 thus taking the total figure to 52,396 people who have returned to the UT through Lakhanpur besides bringing back home 9,243 persons through special trains at Jammu and Udhampur till May 16.As per official information, a train has been scheduled to run from Bengaluru to J&K on May 17, for bringing back the J&K residents stranded in Karnataka. In this regard, the concerned persons have been asked to contact the local administration for seeking permission to move for Bengaluru to catch the said train.The third special Covid train has brought over 952 J&K residents to Jammu this morning while the train from Nagpur today reached the Udhampur railway station carrying 1027 passengers. Besides, another train from Bengaluru carrying about 655 stranded persons is expected to reach Udhampur on May 17. Govt schedules spl trains to return stranded J&K residentsGovernment has scheduled multiple covid special trains to bring back residents of Jammu and Kashmir, who are stranded in different states including Karnataka, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana due to lockdown. For those stranded in Karnatka, the administration has arranged train for J&K from Tripura Vasini White Petals. The reporting time for the train will be from 2pm to 5pm on May 17. For queries, people can WhatsApp on 9480800601 or call at 0191-2466988. Those stranded in Gujarat have to register through digitalgujarat.gov.in at 3pm on May 17. For those in Andra Pardesh and Telengana, government will soon schedule a train. People have been advised to wait for further information and contact at 0191-2466988 for queries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/govt-arranges-20-special-buses-to-evacuate-470-j-k-residents-from-haryana/story-tNw78aKq0qJsYSwxaLYNaK.html
17-05-2020||City||Single day jump of 108 cases takes J&K tally to cross 1,100||A 70-year-old corona positive man died at Sheri Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences (SKIMS) on Saturday. The UT recorded highest single day jump of 108 new Covid-19 positive cases taking the J&K tally to 1,121.Officials said that the 70-year-old man was brought from the central district of Budgam to the emergency section of SKIMS on Friday night and he died on Saturday morning. “He died of heart blockage. When we tested his sample for Covid-19, it was positive,” said medical superintendent of SKIMS, Dr Farooq Jan.With this death, the number of people who died due to the virus in J&K has risen to 12. Officials said, “108 fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported in J&K - 22 of them are from Jammu and 86 from Kashmir.”In Kashmir division, fresh cases were reported in Kulgam, Kupwara, Anantnag, Baramulla, Budgam and Srinagar districts — where the total tally has risen to 988.A jump of 47 cases was recorded in Kulgam, 17 in Anantnag, and 12 in Kupwara, while there were single digit jumps in rest of the districts in the Valley.Of the fresh cases in Kashmir, local reports show that 12 patients are pregnant women from south Kashmir who had returned to the Valley from different parts of the country in past few days.On this, Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Saleem Khan said, “Over the past few weeks, government had tested pregnant women in last weeks of their pregnancy so as to enable their delivery according to their corona status and different hospitals have been earmarked for this.”Dr Saleem Tak, medical superintendent of the Chest Diseases Hospital, said they had tested 900 samples. “17 cases were positive of which, some were pregnant women,” he said. Dr Jan of SKIMS said that 27 samples tested positive.In Jammu division, 10 cases were reported in Kathua and 12 in Ramban, taking the tally to 132. “29 more patients have recovered and were discharged from different hospitals - three in Jammu division and 26 in Kashmir,” an official statement read.So far, 482 patients in Kashmir and 60 in Jammu division have recovered. At present, active cases in Kashmir stand at 497 and 70 in Jammu.Till date, 1.09 lakh people in contact with suspected cases have been put under surveillance — 29,243 in home quarantine, 107 in hospital quarantine and 14,114 under home surveillance. Besides these, 65,049 people have completed their 28-day surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/single-day-jump-of-108-cases-takes-j-k-tally-to-cross-1-100/story-B7wCa3cVR498kTDWpJRXqM.html
17-05-2020||City||Police file chargesheet against 6 persons including Pak militant||The J&K Police on Saturday filed a chargesheet against six accused, including a ‘Pakistani militant’, under the ULA(P) Act.Police said that a chargesheet was filed before court in case FIR no: 69/2019 against six accused including a Pakistani terrorist.The case was registered at Gund in 2019 under the ULA(P) Act and pertains to terror crime activities.The accused include Farooq Ahmad Sheikh, Rayees Ahmad Lone, Nisar Ahmad Batchi, of Hajin, Tariq Ahmad Ganai, of Fraw Haknar, Fayaz Ahmad Bhat, of Kangan, and a Pakistani terrorist Zargam alias Talha, who was killed during an encounter at Kullan in 2019.“As per investigation, the accused are involved in supporting and assisting active terrorists in the area, harbouring of active terrorists and providing logistic support besides transporting them from one place to another. Their involvement has been established in unlawful activities including terror crimes,” said a police spokesman, in a statement.The spokesman said Nisar alias Batchi is an active terrorist affiliated with proscribed terror outfit LeT while another co-accused Zargam was killed in encounter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-file-chargesheet-against-6-persons-including-pak-militant/story-lrnu8MZI8qhmYPgmrKAl2I.html
17-05-2020||City||J&K CS writes to foreign secy seeking early evacuation of residents from Dubai, Oman, Iran||Jammu and Kashmir chief secretary BVR Subrahmanyam on Saturday wrote to foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla seeking evacuation of UT residents stranded in Oman, Dubai, and Iran.“Under Vande Bharat Mission, students of Jammu and Kashmir stranded in Bangladesh are being brought to Srinagar. This step has been highly appreciated by the people. The Jammu and Kashmir administration has also received requests from its residents stranded in Oman, Dubai, and Iran for their early evacuation. Their prolonged stay abroad during the Covid-19 pandemic has made them restless and fearful of catching the disease in a foreign country,” the letter stated.“The UT residents stranded in Oman, Dubai and Iran have requested to return back to the country and they are also desirous of celebrating the Eid festival, which is, approaching on May 25. I would, therefore, request your personal intervention in prioritising the evacuation of residents of J&K stranded in these countries,” it added.“Evacuation process of those stranded in Bangladesh is nearly complete. Now, efforts on for London, Oman, Dubai, Iran,” said principal secretary and government spokesperson, Rohit Kansal in a tweet, while sharing the letter of the J&K chief secretary to the foreign secretary.“Another train from Bengaluru is scheduled to arrive on May 17. The total number of returnees crossed 65,000-mark. In other places where J&K residents are stranded and waiting to be evacuated, the schedule is being finalised,” he said in another post seeking cooperation from people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-cs-writes-to-foreign-secy-seeking-early-evacuation-of-residents-from-dubai-oman-iran/story-1jfYtsOw3gZIFunVaA3ruJ.html
17-05-2020||City||Don’t be so apprehensive about disposal of service cases: CAT chairman to J&K chief justice||The Jammu and Kashmir high court need not be so apprehensive about the disposal of cases by the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT), its chairman L Narasimha Reddy said on Saturday.Refuting the claims made by J&K high court Chief Justice Gita Mittal, in a letter written to the Centre, over the tribunal’s ability to handle service matters of the employees, justice Reddy said the tribunal has recorded the disposal rate of 104% in the past few months.“A news item appeared in print as well as electronic media on the basis of the DO letter dated May 8 said to have been addressed by the chief justice of J&K HC to the Union minister Jitendra Singh. The subject seems to be about the establishment of benches of CAT in the Union territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh,” clarified Justice Reddy in an official release.“A DO letter happens to be the communication between its author and the addressee and it is not made public particularly when it is between highly placed dignitaries. Since the news item was only about the establishment of the Benches and is a matter of relevance for the CAT, I contacted the minister to know about the subject. He informed me that he did not receive the letter either in the form of a hard copy or through e-mail,” he added.Going by what is published in the media, it appears that the Chief Justice expressed concern over the ability of the tribunal to handle the service matters of the UT as and when transferred. Comparative statements were also furnished as regards the pendency in the entire tribunal on one hand and the pendency of service matters in the HC on the other hand. Many statements in the attachment of the news item on the website of “Bar & Bench” were indeed not called for and at any rate, were not a matter of concern for the HC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/don-t-be-so-apprehensive-about-disposal-of-service-cases-cat-chairman-to-j-k-chief-justice/story-tF4zheHf1RIdjj3OCIEeWP.html
17-05-2020||Mumbai||884 new cases bring Mumbai’s tally to 18K; BMC braces for surge by end of June||The city on Saturday recorded 884 new Covid-19 patients, taking the count to 18,555. Mumbai also recorded 41 deaths on Saturday, bringing the toll to 696. Of the 41 deaths, 14 deaths were reported between May 7 and May 12. Dharavi recorded 53 new cases on Saturday, pushing the tally to 1,198. The toll stayed at 53.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Saturday said they had changed the testing protocol to ensure Covid testing is available for all symptomatic suspects. “Testing is available for persons with symptoms such as fever, cough, or breathing difficulty, close contacts of confirmed cases with symptoms, pregnant women 4 to 5 days before delivery coming from containment zones, patients on haemodialysis who are showing symptoms or are suspected cases of Covid-19”, said the BMC’s testing advisory. High-risk or co-morbid close contacts having no symptoms may be tested as per the advice of healthcare worker once between five and 14 days. The BMC also said that no testing will be required for patients completing home isolation. No testing is needed at the time of discharge from the hospitals for mild and moderate cases as per revised guidelines, the testing advisory said.Of the total deaths in Mumbai, 24 had co-morbidities; 26 were men and 15 were women; 2 deceased were below 40 years, 27 above 60 years and 12 between 40 and 60 years.In line with the Maharashtra government’s deliberation on Friday, which stated that cases are likely to peak by the end of June, the BMC has begun ramping up its bed capacity at all Covid Care Centres category 1 (CCC1) for high-risk contacts, Dedicated Covid Health Centres (DCHC) for mild symptomatic patients, at Dedicated Covid Hospitals (DCH), ICU beds, and beds with oxygen points. Sanjeev Jaiswal, additional municipal commissioner and incharge of the BMC’s coordination with the state government, said, “Our preparations will now get over by May-end. These are being made keeping June’s cases in mind. If we have to be prepared for a possible surge of cases in June, preparations must be completed by May.”The CCC2 facilities for asymptomatic and mild symptomatic patients were not being used to its capacity. While the BMC is going to retain some CCC2 facilities, they will be converted to DCHC facilities, with oxygen points. The BMC will add 10,000 additional beds to the DCHC facilities, at least 50% or more of which will have oxygen points, Jaiswal said. Some beds at these DCHCs will be converted into full-fledged hospital beds (DCH) at 30% of their scaled capacity. While Mumbai will get an additional 3,000 ICU beds, 1,000 of the ICU beds will be part of the DCH beds created in the DCHC jumbo centres. Such centres are the NESCO exhibition grounds at Goregaon, NSCI dome at Worli, Mahalaxmi racecourse, CIDCO ground at Mulund and Metro ground at Dahisar.Apart from that, dialysis for Covid patients will be made available in the DCH part of the DCHC facilities at these jumbo centres, where 10% beds will be reserved for patients who also need dialysis. At the NESCO exhibition grounds, the BMC will scale the bed capacity from existing 1,000 beds to 2,500 beds. Of these, 250 to 300 beds will be ICU beds. At the BKC grounds, the BMC will scale the capacity from the existing 100 beds to 200 beds, of which 150-odd will be ICU beds. At the CIDCO ground at Mulund, capacity will be scaled to 2,000 from the existing 100 beds with 150-200 ICU beds. At the Metro grounds at Dahisar, the capacity will be scaled to 1,500, but its design is still being prepared, with an ICU capacity of 150-200 beds. At the racecourse, the bed capacity will be increased to 800 from the existing 300, with 120 ICU beds. NSCI Dome in Worli will get a 30-bedded ICU facility. CCC1 centres will have a scaled capacity of up to 1,00,000 beds by May-end. The BMC has begun readying gymkhanas, marriage halls, dormitories in schools and colleges. On Friday, it took over the Wankhede stadium in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/884-new-cases-bring-city-tally-to-18k-bmc-braces-for-surge-by-end-of-june/story-JxN9ho859yWjThmpQyvi0K.html
17-05-2020||Mumbai||Foreign nationals cheated in Goa; ED attaches 56 flats, 16 villas||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has attached 56 flats and 16 villas at Peace Valley, a residential project in Deumol, Goa, along with bank accounts linked to two local businessmen accused of cheating foreign nationals in a realty scam. Assets of Ankit Kumar and Sunil Kumar worth a total of ₹7.73 crore were seized under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) in the case.The attached assets are held in the names of M/s Sanatan Financers and Real Estates Pvt Ltd, Goa. “The accused persons illegally collected funds from these foreign nationals in the guise of selling properties in the Peace Valley project,” read an ED statement issued on Saturday.ED initiated the investigation under provisions of PMLA based on the first information report (FIRs) registered by Goa Police on the complaints filed by at least 50 scammed foreign nationals. “During the course of the investigation, it was revealed that the accused had collected money from the foreign nationals through foreign direct investments (FDI) to the accounts of their various shell companies including M/s Sanatan Financers and Real Estates Pvt Ltd. The foreign nationals were convinced to invest in the companies formed by the accused towards the purchase of flats and villas,” the agency said. “However, the ownership of said flats/villas was never transferred to the foreign nationals. In this manner, from 2006 to 2011, the accused had received ₹7.73 crore by duping the foreign nationals and acquired 16 villas worth ₹2.56 crore and 56 flats worth ₹5.17 crore. These assets and balance in the [accused’s bank] accounts, being proceeds of crime, have been provisionally attached under PMLA,” the statement added.As per Indian law, foreigners are not allowed to buy properties in the country and this violation attracts provisions of the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA). Ankit was arrested in the case by ED in March and has been released on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/foreign-nationals-cheated-in-goa-ed-attaches-56-flats-16-villas/story-ih6uPDPXhW8YXTBlU0HI5M.html
17-05-2020||City||Transformer repair firms in Kashmir seek pending payment, abstain from work||The Kashmir Transformers Repair Association has been refusing to turn up for work following a row over non-payment of dues worth ₹30 crore. Two years on, the Jammu and Kashmir administration failed to clear their liabilities, forcing the private firms not to take up any further repairing assignments from the Power Development Department (PDD). The workers have gone on an indefinite strike after the administration failed to clear their dues. However, officials of the department have cited the shortage of funds for non-payment.The association is functioning under Small Scale Industrial Units (SSIUs), a private body working in collaboration with the Jammu and Kashmir Industries and Commerce DepartmentJalal Ud Din Wani, president of the association said that the power department has not paid their dues for the last two years. “I have asked my workers to boycott work completely till the government addresses our grievances,” he said, adding that they have taken up the matter with the PDD officials but to no avail. Wani said that more than 10,000 people associated with these firms have lost their livelihood. Abdul Aziz Rather, a unit-holder, said that he receives over 10 transformers per day for repair from the power department. “It costs thousands of rupees to repair a single transformer. We won’t repair even a single electricity transformer now as the administration has not paid us the dues,” he said.With nearly 200 damaged transformers lying with these unitholders in different parts of the Valley, people may face dark nights ahead. With the deadlock between the association and the power department, the transformer damage rate in Kashmir has gone up 60% due to overloading. Kashmir PDD chief engineer Aijaz Ahmad Dar said: “The government is looking into the matter and the issue will be resolved within a month.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/transformer-repair-firms-in-kashmir-seek-pending-payment-abstain-from-work/story-3Ar39ot8cGahlR5zoIJNDO.html
17-05-2020||Mumbai||Covid patient made to pay ₹24K for ambulance ride||It’s not only difficult to get tested for Covid-19 or find a hospital bed in the city, but also to avail a ride to a hospital. A 55-year-old Covid-positive woman from Worli Koliwada had to cough up ₹24,000 just to reach a hospital on May 9. She was first charged ₹12,000 for a ride from Worli to Powai and another ₹12,000 for a ride to go to Masina hospital in Byculla after she failed to get a bed in the Powai hospital. Several other patients have also complained of similar fleecing by ambulance operators.The son of the 55-year-old Covid-19 patient, said, “They [ambulance services] were very reluctant to reduce the charges and instead kept on increasing it. We had no other option and were compelled to agree to the charges. These people are taking advantage of the patients since there is no other option available during this lockdown.”While the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has also included a free ambulance service for Covid patients on its helpline 1916, some complained that the ambulance was not made available despite calling on the helpline.Another Covid-19 patient from Kurla had to take a loan to pay for the ambulance service. A 43-year-old male from Kurla was charged ₹13,000 by an ambulance service for a ride from Kurla to Kandivli.He said, “After I was tested positive, I called up the BMC helpline and got a bed reserved at a Kandivli hospital. The BMC did not help me with an ambulance. I cannot afford to pay such a huge amount and had to take a loan of ₹13,000 to pay for the private ambulance service.” BMC officials say that the citizens should get in touch with the local police station and local ward office during such emergencies. They said that control rooms in the local ward office are already helping people with ambulances and other such issues.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner (health), said, “Every citizen should have the contact details of local ward office and local police station. We have been promoting the local ward office control room’s number. Every administrative ward has at least three ambulances and by next week, we are getting an additional 250 ambulances which will increase the capacity of every ward.”Mohommad Abid Khan, the spokesperson of a city-based private ambulance service BSIDEU, said, “We have doubled up the salaries of our drivers and helpers on the ambulance who are willing to work during the lockdown. The ambulance staff is also given a place to stay by our company and all such cost is paid by the company. Along with this, we are also paying for PPE kits and sanitisation of the ambulances on a daily basis. This is why the cost of the ambulance escalates.”“Having said that, we continue to give free rides for cases that come through our NGOs and we also help the patient to find a bed in the hospitals,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-patient-made-to-pay-24k-for-ambulance-ride/story-VnfpICBGJPKyfL5bCbsyaN.html
17-05-2020||City||PPCB to map and mitigate noise pollution in Ludhiana, Amritsar||Working on the directions of the National Green Tribunal (NGT), the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) has started a project to map and mitigate noise pollution in Ludhiana and Amritsar. It is being done for the first time and the board is presently working on the tendering process for roping in a firm for mapping noise pollution, identifying hotspots and preparing a plan for controlling noise pollution. The board officials said the PPCB had already been measuring noise pollution, but it was done on specific occasions such as Diwali, etc, or when the board received a complaint against any factory. As Ludhiana is an industrial hub, rising noise pollution has been a major concern for residents with lakhs of vehicles moving on city roads. Under the new project, hotspots would be identified and a comprehensive report prepared after conducting a survey for dealing with noise pollution in both the cities.PPCB member secretary Krunesh Garg said, “The project will be initiated at the ground level soon and the board is currently working on the tendering process for roping in a firm. Noise pollution mapping has not been done in the cities in the past and after dealing with the problem in these two cities, the board would cover other cities in the state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ppcb-to-map-and-mitigate-noise-pollution-in-ludhiana-amritsar/story-woKgGgihMjcIac4xX8jusL.html
17-05-2020||City||Fraudsters use Rs 20-lakh crore special economic package as bait for duping people||Soon after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the special economic package of Rs 20-lakh crore to revive the economy, many fake websites were launched to dupe people on the pretext of ‘corona funds’ for citizens.Several residents in Ludhiana have received messages via WhatsApp, Facebook, e-mails and other social networking sites from these websites informing them that they are also eligible for cash benefit under the special package of the government.In the messages, the people are being asked to fill their bank details in an online form so that Rs 15,000 can be deposited directly in their accounts.The district police have taken note of these websites and initiated a probe.A local, Meenakshi Chaudhary, chose Twitter to file her complaint. She said she received a link, in which she was asked to fill her bank details to avail financial help of Rs 15,000 from the government.She added she and her family members filled the forms, but she suspecting something fishy, lodged a complaint with the police.The fraudsters are using pictures of the Prime Minister to trap the people. The police have detected four such fake websites and initiated an investigation to trace the operators.Information technology expert and chief executive officer (CEO) of Cyber Frame Solutions Anoop Gupta said, “Fraudsters resort to dupe people through various mediums. Earlier, they used to dupe people on the pretext of lottery, and then they started stealing money from bank accounts of people after getting their bank details. Now, they have started targeting people on the pretext of economic package.”Gupta advised people not to share their bank details with anyone, especially online. He added if the government would start any scheme, the information about that will reach the people through the administration.Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said such websites are fake and being operated by fraudsters. “I have already marked an inquiry to the cyber cell,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fraudsters-using-rs-20-lakh-crore-special-economic-package-as-bait-for-duping-people/story-gw8zjr6Qe2IXsn5sbDJmIO.html
17-05-2020||Noida||Gautam Budh Nagar registers fifth casualty due to Covid-19; more health camps in slums soon||Gautam Budh Nagar district recorded its fifth Covid-19 related casualty late on Friday night with a 65-year-old man succumbing to the virus.The man lived in Noida Sector 8 and had been admitted to the .Greater Noida-based Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) on May 12 after showing symptoms of Covid-19. The man’s test result finally came around 8pm on Friday, where he was shown to have tested positive. He succumbed around a couple of hours later at 10.36pm.GIMS director Rakesh Gupta later confirmed the cause of death to be Covid-19, aggravated by bilateral pneumonia with severe sepsis.The man was being treated with antibiotics and supportive therapy till his results showed him positive in the Covid suspect ward. “The patient came to know that he had tested Covid-19 positive, when we were shifting him to the isolation ward. His initial reaction was that of shock. He was suffering from pneumonia and both his lungs were affected. He was admitted here on May 12 as he had symptoms of pneumonia. His sample was collected and the results confirmed him positive on Friday. His was on oxygen but his condition was stable,” GIMS director Dr Rakesh Gupta said.“The body was handed over to his relatives, who were also under institutional quarantine, as per laid down protocols after following all precautions. The body was sanitized properly before being handed over. We called his relatives out of quarantine on humanitarian grounds,” said Gupta. The burial ceremony was done by the family members in the presence of concerned health and police officials.More health camps in slumsMeanwhile, district administration officials said that plans are afoot to hold four more health camps in and around slums in Sector 8 to screen the slum-dwellers. “We’ve come across many symptomatic cases while holding these camps. However, fortunately, most of these patients were under institutional quarantine,” said a senior health official.In Noida, the JJ colony clusters of Sector 8, 9, 5, and 10 have been proving to be a major challenge for the health department authorities to contain the spread of the virus. At least 54 people have tested Covid-19 positive from sectors 8, 9, and 10 so far. Currently, over 100 persons from the JJ Colony cluster are under institutional quarantine.Five more casesOn Saturday, five new cases of Covid-19 were reported from GB Nagar, including that of the 65-year-old man from Sector 8, taking the number of cases in the district to 247. A 32-year-old man from Sector 76 was found positive and officials suspect that he may have contracted the infection from earlier patients from the area. Three patients — two female aged 26 and 45 and a 20-year-old man — from Sector 5 were also found positive.Around 10 people have tested Covid-19 positive from Noida Sector 5 since April. Officials suspect that all the identified patients from Sector 5 are part of the Ceasefire company trail.By Saturday night, the health department had collected a total of 4,738 samples. Currently, there are 61 active Covid-19 cases in the district. Around 435 persons are under institutional quarantine while 181 Covid positive patients have been discharged after completing the treatment successfully. On Saturday, officials received 41 reports, out of which five were found positive..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gautam-budh-nagar-registers-fifth-casualty-due-to-covid-19-more-health-camps-in-slums-soon/story-v6KNOVKPRAXn6qABPsFcvL.html
17-05-2020||Noida||With doors open for export of non-surgical masks, Noida’s garment industry gets its hopes high||Bringing cheer to the garment industry in Gautam Budh Nagar, the central government on Saturday has for the first time eased the restrictions on the export of non-surgical and non-medical masks. The directorate general of foreign trade in the Union ministry of commerce and industry issued a notification on Saturday lifting the prohibition on export of non-surgical and non-medical masks of all types, including silk, wool and knitted ones.Lalit Thukral, president, Noida Apparel Export Cluster (NAEC), said after amending the export policy for masks and providing them five different ITC-HS codes, the garment manufacturers of GB Nagar are expected to make at least one lakh masks per day. In India, eight-digit ITC-HS(Indian trade clarification based on harmonized system) codes are allotted to products that are to be imported or exported.According to estimates, the district hosts more than 3,000 garment factories which employ around 15 lakh workers. The garment industry is the second-biggest sector in the state after agriculture in terms of the number of people it engages.“Garment factories will not have any dearth of raw materials as many leftover fabrics, including cotton, silk, wool, polyester among others, can be used for making masks. This decision to allow export of non-medical masks will not only give a new lease of life to the garment industry in Noida which had suffered a huge loss caused by nationwide lockdown due to Covid-19, but will also pave a new way in the export domain,” he said. Most of the garment industries only resumed limited operations in the first week of May after the lockdown restrictions were eased in the country. While the garment units are allowed to operate with 30% percent workforce, industry owners have been battling a shortage of workers as many of them have returned to their home towns. Thukral, who chaired a meeting of garment exporters just after the notification was released, said all the garment manufacturers are very enthusiastic and more than willing to make designer masks. “These designer masks will not only attract foreign buyers but will also provide a larger canvas to the research and design wings of the garment units,” he said.Echoing similar views, Manoj Sahu, who runs a garment export company in Noida, said that according to his personal estimates, garment units operating in the district can make at least a total of 30 lakhs masks in a month. He said going by his expectations, the garment industry in the district can generate an additional revenue of at least ₹50 crore a month. “Apart from generating additional revenue, the government’s decision will also create more jobs in the garment manufacturing sector,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/with-doors-open-for-export-of-non-surgical-masks-noida-s-garment-industry-gets-its-hopes-high/story-TIgRkiBGHJmrOpkuDqan8J.html
17-05-2020||City||Auraiya accident: SHO of Ghaziabad’s Indirapuram suspended; circle officer asked to explain||After the tragedy in Auraiya where 24 migrant workers who were travelling back home were killed in a road accident, Ghaziabad district administration and police officers have been on alert to direct people to nearby shelters.Ever since the lockdown to control the spread of Covid-19 was announced on March 24, millions of migrant workers, who are mostly daily wage earners, have been attempting to go back to their home towns and villages. While many walked great distances, others managed to get on trucks since the curbs were relaxed for the third phase of the lockdown that began on May 4. Ghaziabad, border district with Delhi, turned out to be a hotbed for migrant labourers attempting to make their way into other areas of Uttar Pradesh and even Bihar.Of late the Uttar Pradesh government had been attempting to ferry workers on buses and trains. But for those who did not get tickets or if the buses and trains did not go to their intended destination, trucks were their next option.On Saturday morning, on national highway-9, migrant workers were seen boarding trucks. However, following the chief minister’s orders, police and administrative officers started ferrying all those they could find on the road to the nearest shelters.Migrant workers like Dharmendra Kumar along with his family members were brought to Sukh Sagar Farm House, which is now turned to a shelter, in Kavi Nagar Industrial Area on Saturday afternoon.Kumar arrived from Wazirpur Industrial Areas in Delhi.“I had heard that we can get lift in truck from Ghaziabad’s Lal Kuan in order to go to our hometown, Pratapgarh in UP. My wife is six months pregnant and we have two minor children besides my old aged mother with me. At Lal Kuan we waited for trucks but could not gather courage to board as it was stuffed with other workers. My wife said that she would not be able to take up such a travel,” he said.“So we waited there for another truck or any buses but cops arrived and brought us to the shelter home in a bus,” he added.Other workers like Lalu Yadav, who is native of Mahagama in the state of Jharkhand, were also picked up by cops and taken to shelter home.“I along with 50 other construction workers were walking to NH-9 from Razapur where we work. We are sitting without work for past two months. Some of my colleagues gave an idea that we should board some truck from NH-9 to our hometown. When we reached near the highway, the cops nabbed us and brought us to the shelter home,” Yadav added.For past one week the UP State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) has stepped up despatch of their buses to different parts of UP.“The buses are now going almost everyday and also as per demand. In about past week or so we have despatched about 600 buses to different parts of UP with an average seating of about 35 passengers per bus,” said AK Singh, regional manager of UPSRTC.On Saturday, divisional commissioner Anita C Meshram and inspector general (Meerut Range) Praveen Kumar, also arrived to Ghaziabad and inspected the shelters besides giving directions to local officials.“The directions are clear from the state administration that no one will be travelling afoot or by any trucks. The migrant workers will be brought to shelter homes and proper arrangement of water, food, etc. is being done. The police have been given clear instructions and any travel by truck has been stopped. They will be sent by buses or train with proper social distancing,” Meshram said.In a late night development, the SHO of the Indirapuram police station was suspended by state officials and an explanation was sought on the matter from the circle officer.Police officials said 16 migrant workers who were in the vehicle that met an accident at Auraiya had boarded the vehicle from the jurisdiction of the Indirapuram police station in Ghaziabad.“All 16 migrant workers had boarded the vehicle from Indirapuram police station area, the workers later told investigation officers. All of the 16 persons are safe. However, in light of this, officials have directed for the suspension of the Indirapuram SHO while an explanation has been sought from the circle officer of the area,” said Manish Mishra, superintendent of police (city).District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey did not respond to calls.SSP Kalanidhi Naithani said that directions are being complied with and buses have been roped in by the district officials to migrant workers to different shelters.“We are ensuring that no one travels afoot or by trucks. The migrants who are in shelter homes are sent by buses while those who have train bookings are travelling by train. With all the available resources we are trying best to secure 49 border points besides deployment over roads and hotspot areas.We are also ensuring that no accident like incident happens with any workers,” he added.Awanish Awasthi, UP’s additional chief secretary (home), said that CM has taken cognisance of the incident in Auraiya.“The instructions from CM are clear that no migrant workers should be travelling afoot or by any unsafe transport like trucks, etc. Travel by buses and trains are free of cost. The border districts have been told to take details and screen workers who arrive at borders. Every border district has been told to make arrangement for 200 buses for the purpose of their travel,” Awasthi, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/auraiya-accident-sho-of-giazbabad-s-indirapuram-suspended-circle-officer-asked-to-explain/story-lzZ5srNHh7RzyM1nCqsjJN.html
17-05-2020||City||Posing as PA to Priyanka Gandhi, man seeks donation from Ludhiana and UP residents; held||A fraudster posing as the personal assistant (PA) of Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra duped people from Ludhiana and Uttar Pradesh on the pretext of distributing ration among the migrant labourers and sending them to their native places.The accused, identified as Vijay Tiwari, 37, of Gopal Nagar, Ludhiana, claimed to be the leader of National Student Union of India (NSUI).After the Congress high command got to know about his activities, they traced him. The high command ordered the local NSUI members to look into the matter and lodge a first incident report (FIR) against him. Following the complaint of Avtish Kumar, district president of NSUI,the Division Number 3 police arrested him.Kumar said, “The accused used to send messages to donors in Ludhiana and Uttar Pradesh, claiming that Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had appointed him in Ludhiana to ensure the collection of supply of ration for the migrant labourers. He also duped people on the pretext of making arrangements to send the migrants back to their native places.”He said, “I received information about the accused from the high command. After verifying his details, I approached police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal. Following the orders of the police chief, police lodge a case against him.”“The accused has no connection to the Congress party,” he added.Inspector Satish Kumar, station house officer (SHO) at Division number 3 police station said, “The accused has been arrested and will be produced before the court on Sunday.”A case under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered against the accused. “More sections could be added in the FIR after investigation,” added the SHO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/posing-as-pa-to-priyanka-gandhi-man-seeks-donation-from-ludhiana-and-up-residents-held/story-8gxHMvm7gr2FRraubaZOXO.html
17-05-2020||City||Extend amnesty scheme till March 2021, stop migration of labourers: FICO to Punjab industry body||In view of the coronavirus lockdown’s impact over trade, the Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation (FICO) have asked the Punjab State Industries and Export Corporation (PSIEC) Limited to extend its amnesty scheme till March 31, 2021.The demand was raised by a FICO delegation led by their chairman KK Seth and president Gurmeet Singh Kular during a meeting with PSIEC chairman Gurpreet Gogi.FICO president Gurmeet Singh Kular said, “PSIEC Limited had announced a liberal one-year amnesty scheme applicable to the allotters of different focal points against the payment of enhanced land cost, providing facility of making payment in two equal instalments with a waiver of compounding and penal interests to the plot holders of PSIEC due on May 31. Considering the current scenario, we have requested the corporation to extend the due date till March 31, 2021. “We have also requested the industrial body to waive off the interest completely to facilitate the industry in this period of recession,” he said.The FICO leader also said, “Despite waiving off the compounded and penal interests, PSIEC is still charging 15% per annum which would raise the original enhancement of Rs 474 to Rs 1,000. It is totally enviable for the industry that is already going through a period of crunch. It is a humble request that as per the ‘No Enhancement Policy’ of the Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited, the same should be applicable in Punjab so as to facilitate the industry in the state.”The industrialists also said that under-construction units or those which could not start their production due to the curfew should also be given the extension till March 31, 2021, without penalty.‘REPAIR FOCAL POINT ROAD, SEWERAGE’The delegation also urged PSIEC chairman Gogi to give green signal to the repair and upgrading of Focal Point Road and the sewerage on it. Another demand raised by the delegation was –permission to the industrialists to utilise 30% of their land area for the construction of staff quarters for labour as well as for commercial purpose so they could construct and maintain a commercial outlet to display and sell the products manufactured in their premises.‘STOP LABOUR MIGRATION’ Meanwhile, the delegation highlighted the plight of labourers and said the state government should stop their migration to their native states. “Industry is going to face another forced lockdown in the coming days as the government of Punjab is allowing the labour to move out of the state. If this continues, the industry will go in a critical stage and its revival will be very difficult,” the attendees said.Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings president Upkar Singh Ahuja; president of Focal Point Industrial Association, Phase-8, OP Bassi; Federation of MSME Manufacturers chairman Charanjit Singh Vishwakarma and FICO general secretary Rajeev Jain were also part of the delegation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/extend-amnesty-scheme-till-march-2021-stop-migration-of-labourers-fico-to-psiec/story-H47OZJnZWAsH0usEaSlHlO.html
17-05-2020||Gurugram||Nuh shoot-out: Man held for looting ₹14 crore from 200 ATMs in eight states||The Nuh police arrested a 40-year-old wanted man on Friday night after a shoot-out near Malabh Polytechnic, the police said. He was allegedly involved in more than 200 incidents of ATM thefts in eight states across the country.According to the police, the suspect, identified as Farookh of Wazidpur in Nuh, was wanted has allegedly looted more than ₹14 crore in the last 10 years. He, along with his associates, used to uproot ATMs from kiosks, said police.Narender Bijarnia, the superintendent of police, Nuh, said they received a tip-off about the suspect’s movement — that he would be going towards Malabh Polytechnic to meet his associates. “We deployed a crime investigation unit (CIA) team in the area and placed barricades near the college. He and his close aide, Sahid, were on their motorbike, when they saw the police and tried to take a turn in the fields. Sahid got down and ran into the fields, taking advantage of the dark, while Farookh fired four rounds at the police. One bullet hit the police vehicle,” he said.In retaliatory firing by the police, a bullet hit his right leg and he fell, the police said.Bijarnia said he was rushed to a hospital and is undergoing treatment. “During questioning, he confessed to his involvement in more than 200 incidents, in which he and his associates uprooted ATMs from eight states across the country. He allegedly stole more than ₹14 crore in the last 10 years and revealed the modus operandi of his gang,” he said.According to the police, the suspect had formed a gang to loot ATMs 10 years ago and has been arrested several times. Farookh has allegedly travelled to Gujarat, Orissa, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra.Nuh police on Saturday wrote to the officials concerned in the eight states and compiled data of the incidents reported in their cities. “There are 20 members in his gang, of whom 14 have been identified. He had formed this gang in 2010 and started operating from Haryana. He had uprooted an ATM for the first time from a Gurugram kiosk on June 27, 2010,” said Bijarnia.The police said he used to travel in flights to different states, to conduct reconnaissance of the area before uprooting the ATM kiosks.The police said there are 50 gangs operating out of Nuh involved in blowing up and uprooting ATMs, of which at least 45 have been arrested several times. Initially, there were only three gangs but they split due to altercations over dividing the loot and set up their own gangs, and demarcated target areas, the police said.During his crime spree, 350 ATMs were targeted, with some ATMs blown up using powerful explosives while others being dragged away by stolen cars and cut with the help of gas cutters.Bijarnia said the suspect was inspired by a Bollywood movie and planned to form a gang to put his plans into action. “Farookh used to target a city, based on crime stories in the newspaper. He used to visit a city and spend a week keeping a close watch on the ATM kiosks and how often it was loaded with the money. Once the plan was finalised, three to four gang members visited that city and planned the execution. Later, other gang members used to reach the city in different vehicles, which they used for the operation, “ he said.The police said that the gang used to target ATMs on the first night after the money was loaded in the machines. Gang members used to be deployed at both ends of the road to keep a check on the police movement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/nuh-shoot-out-man-held-for-looting-14-crore-from-200-atms-in-eight-states/story-SxKi8rgyLt0x6i8txaMA8M.html
17-05-2020||Gurugram||After arrests in Naurangpur murder case, huge cache of arms and ammunition recovered||Three days after arresting four men, including a suspected sharpshooter of a gang, for allegedly murdering a rival gangster in Naurangpur village near Kherki Daula, police on Saturday said they have seized a huge cache of firearms and ammunition apart from cars and a two-wheeler from the suspects’ possession.According to the police, a team of police personnel from crime branch Sector 17 recovered five pistols, two country-made guns, two revolvers, 97 live ammunition, nine shell casings, a Maruti Suzuki Vitara Brezza car, a Mahindra Scorpio SUV and a scooter.Preet Pal, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), crime, said, “This is one of the biggest recoveries of weapons and ammunition in Gurugram in recent times. The men informed us about these possessions during the interrogation.”On Wednesday, the police had said they arrested Dhiraj Yadav, the suspected sharpshooter, who is allegedly a part of Ashok Rathi gang. Dhiraj and the victim, identified as Manjeet Yadav, allegedly had an ongoing rivalry. The police had said Dhiraj and three associates hatched a conspiracy to kill Manjeet as he had control over the newspaper distribution and the supply of security guards and domestic helpers to condominiums in the Kherki Daula area. Although Dhiraj wanted to take over the reported business, Manjeet would purportedly not let anyone enter his business zone.Dhiraj had allegedly asked the other three suspects to murder Manjeet and provided them with weapons and vehicles, the police added.“Dhiraj was also involved in another murder case which took place in Jhajjar over nine days ago. He was the one to provide weapons to the assailants,” the ACP said. He said that the four suspects were sent to judicial custody on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/after-arrests-in-naurangpur-murder-case-huge-cache-of-arms-and-ammunition-recovered/story-IYMS34AFI4YaMmiLEYt0tO.html
17-05-2020||Gurugram||14 test Covid-19 positive in Gurugram, total cases in city at 193||Fourteen new cases of people infected with coronavirus disease (Covid-19) emerged from different areas of the city on Saturday, taking the total tally of infected persons in the district to 193. Out of these, 89 are currently admitted in ESIC, Sector 9, Medeor and other private hospitals of the city. Over 104 Covid-19 patients have been discharged till now.According to the district health bulletin, a four-year-old girl and a 25-year-old woman from Ravi Nagar and two men each from Sirhaul and Bhawani Enclave have tested positive. A 36-year-old man, a resident of Sector 17, a 30-year-old man from Shivaji Park, and a 38-year-old man from Dundahera were also confirmed to be infected with coronavirus. The district health department, however, did not share their contact history. From Rajeev Nagar, a 53-year-old man was tested positive. A 70-year-old woman from Pataudi Chowk, Mohannagar was also found positive, while one case, each, from Sikanderpur, Sector 56 and Mullahera were reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/14-test-covid-19-positive/story-6dKY4O8iNEUn1ZoP8vql7K.html
17-05-2020||City||Students relived as CBSE announces to release date sheet for board exams||Facing uncertainty for almost two months after Central Board for Secondary Education (CBSE) postponed the board exams, students breathed a sigh of relief as the board announced to release the date sheet on Monday.On March 18, CBSE had announced that board exams of Classes 10 and 12 could not be conducted due to the Covid-19 outbreak.A week after the Centre announced that the remaining exams will be held between July 1 to 15, Union minister of human resource development (MHRD) Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank took to Twitter on Saturday evening to announce that CBSE would release the date sheet on Monday.The pending exams of Class 12 include business studies, geography, Hindi (elective and core), home science, sociology, computer science (old and new), information practice (old and new), information technology and biotechnology.Sristhi Verma, a commerce student at BCM Senior Secondary School, Basant Avenue, Dugri, welcomed the decision of conducting the remaining exams in July.“Although every student wants to be done with the exams so that he or she can go out with friends, on a trip or even starting looking for colleges, but the situation is different this time. Saving lives is more important than conducting examinations. I’m hopeful that situation will normalise by the time we appear for our pending exams,” she said, adding that computer science and business are her pending papers.Astha Munro, a humanities student at BCM School, said that she just focuses on the future by searching for good colleges to pursue fashion designing.“Though I’m left with only one exam, it is still a burden. I have already revised all the lessons many times and I’m glad that the board decided to release the date sheet. It was high time,” she said, sharing that the board had announced to postpone the papers just one day before her Punjabi exam was scheduled.Sukhpreet Kaur, another commerce student of the same school, said that she had planned to learn to play the harmonium after the exams.“I wanted to learn something new after completing the board exams, but this lockdown ruined all my plans. I could not go out for music lessons and the only thing I have been doing these days is cooking. After appearing for my remaining two exams, I won’t have much time as I will start preparing for the entrance exams for admission to universities. This announcement has ended the uncertainty. Finally, the burden of exams will be lifted from our shoulders,” she said.Paramjeet Kaur, principal BCM Arya Model Senior Secondary School and city coordinator of CBSE, said, “So far, we have not received any directions on how the exams will be conducted or what precautionary measures will be taken. We are only certain that the remaining exams will be held from July 1 to 15.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/students-cheer-as-cbse-announces-to-release-date-sheet-for-board-exams/story-4U4h4OpFa7JSyLLi1lTbZM.html
17-05-2020||Chandigarh||Tricity buzz: HT Chandigarh reporters’ tracker on all those making, or faking, news amid coronavirus lockdown||OFFICE TURNS OUT TO BE A RELAXING OUTING FOR PUNJAB GOVT STAFF IN MOHALIThere may be many a downside to the Covid-19 lockdown but there is certainly an upside for Punjab government employees in Mohali. With offices opening last Monday with 33% staff and no public dealing, employees at the municipal corporation, Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) and district administrative complex couldn’t have asked for more. With no pesky people and hardly any work besides accommodating bosses and no rush hour traffic en route, office is turning out to be a relaxing outing. It’s a nice getaway where they catch up on gossip, stretch their legs and just sit and ponder on how they would be slogging it out for eight hours at a stretch in the office just two months ago.CHANDIGARH HEALTH DEPT KEEPS JOURNALISTS GUESSINGThe Chandigarh health department is often bombarded with questions from journalists on the health beat for real-time updates on corona positive cases. The media needs to report the latest accurately but prompt updates are rare to come by in Chandigarh unlike Mohali, where deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan tweets the latest himself. UT officials tweet everything except the updated figures and at times, journalists under deadline pressure lose their cool. Once Chandigarh director, health services, Dr G Dewan posed queries on a WhatsApp group of health journalists but when it was the media’s turn to ask him questions, he went silent. It was after much hue and cry by journalists that the UT administration has started sharing data of Covid-19 cases twice a day.ITI STUDENTS MAKING MASKS FOR COVID WARRIORSWith masks a must to check the spread of Covid-19, students of Industrial Training Institute (ITI, women) are meeting the demand by stitching masks at home during the lockdown. They have stitched 25,000 masks, keeping principal Shamsher Singh Purkhalvi busy in managing the distribution among sanitation workers, labourers, police and other departments in Mohali. The institute provides the raw material to the students, while the staff is assigned the duty of collecting the masks from the homes of the students. WHAT WENT WRONG AT BAPU DHAM COLONY?A status update report of Chandigarh’s health department on May 12 states that despite the lockdown to check the spread of Covid-19, there was crowding at community water taps at Bapu Dham in violation of social distancing norms. Sharing of hookahs, cigarettes and beedis besides drinking and card playing sessions contributed to the spread of coronavirus. Poor hygiene and lack of cough etiquettes were listed as reasons that led to the infection of 121 people in the low income group locality. #MAIN BHI CHANDIGARH POLICE CAMPAIGN ON COURSEClose on the heels of the Punjab Police campaign #Main Bhi Harjeet Singh, Chandigarh Police have launched an awareness drive of their own with #Main Bhi Chandigarh Police. In the video, city residents, including children, pledge they will practise social distancing norms and ensure their family members and neighbours do so too. The police wants people to adhere to social distancing and the video goes a long way in spreading the message. COPS GOING BEYOND CALL OF DUTYAfter the Covid curbs were relaxed, traffic police personnel expanded their role by assisting the administration in providing meals to the poor and conducting awareness workshops in housing societies of Chandigarh’s southern sectors. After the recent storm, policemen at Children’s Traffic Park were seen helping clear the roads of branches. Deputy superintendent of police, road safety, Jaswinder Singh led from the front as his team removed a tree that had fallen on the road dividing Sectors 37 and 41.CHANDIGARH BIKER SPITS ON ROAD, COP MAKES HIM CLEAN ITTraffic marshal Baldev Singh was on duty at a checkpost near Tribune Chowk last Monday when he saw a biker spit on the road. The cop sent the biker back to the spot and clean the spit with a bottle of water. A video of the incident was shared widely on social media. During the lockdown, a case can be registered under Sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life); and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code can be registered against anyone found spitting. The motorcyclist was, however, let off with a warning. SCHOOL EDUCATION DIRECTOR, DEO NOT ON THE SAME PAGEA day after director, school education, Rubinderjit Singh Brar said that school holidays have been extended for two weeks, district education officer Alka Mehta questioned the source of information. Asked for clarification, Brar said that the DEO is not wrong as per the officer order, while the information that holidays have been extended for two weeks is not wrong either. Looks like both officers are not on the same page, leaving students of government schools confused. Inputs by Hillary Victor, Shailee Dogra, Tanbir Dhaliwal, Shub Karman Dhaliwal, Amanjeet Singh, Rajanbir Singh and Srishti Jaswal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/tricity-buzz-ht-chandigarh-reporters-tracker-on-all-those-making-or-faking-news-amid-coronavirus-lockdown/story-H0v2DBSudQ2EL5jN80QOLK.html
17-05-2020||City||HT Chandigarh Our Take: Opening schools in times of a raging pandemic||The third phase of Covid-19 lockdown ends today as India awaits another set of government announcements on steps to tackle the pandemic, with further easing of restrictions expected.Nothing, however, has been clarified about reopening schools even though there were some reports of the ministry of human resource and development (MHRD) and the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) planning to give the green signal for the new session to start.An alternative academic calendar the MHRD released earlier in May for secondary school students to cover the syllabus during the lockdown seemed to indicate that children were not likely to return to classes anytime soon as the guidelines read: “Teacher educators, teachers and parents need to find ways to deal with this unprecedented situation arising out of the lockdown in order to engage students meaningfully through educational activities at home. While we are putting in all efforts to flatten the epidemic curve, learning can continue at home too, and the learning curve of children must continue to move upwards.” The ministry had also launched an alternative calendar for primary students earlier on April 16.Involving stakeholders in making this decision, especially when Covid-19 infections in India are showing no signs of plateauing, is crucial, something that the Delhi government seems to understand as it recently asked students, teachers and principals about the roadmap to reopening schools post the lockdown. An online suggestion form has been put up on the website of the Directorate of Education, where students, their teachers, principals and parents can give their inputs, an official statement from the Delhi government said.Schools will also from now on have to undertake the gargantuan task of putting social distancing measures and health and hygiene checks in place. Other concerns revolve around accommodating 20 or even 40 children in a small room, creating additional space for them; getting more teachers and staff to cope with the increased pressure. Will more school buses be required due to the distancing norms? What about children of daily wage workers who have left for their hometowns? Who takes care of their education?That’s not all. Preventing infections in school, having additional staff and health workers on the premises to ensure adequate sanitation and to effectively screen each child will be a bigger concern.Does it seem feasible to get children out of their homes into classrooms at this juncture? Will parents allow it? What about working couples who are returning to their workplaces once government and private offices start functioning, leaving their children at home?What needs to be addressed immediately is growing concerns about the spread of Covid-19. The city and the tricity are reporting infections regularly, with a number of hotspots marked out, including Bapu Dham Colony and Sector 30. Health of children and the population is the biggest priority now, and until the cities become “green zones,” getting children out and about is not advisable.It will require a lot of brainstorming and planning to open schools – any kneejerk reaction now can have catastrophic consequences.OPENING SCHOOLSShould schools be opened after the May 17 lockdown is lifted? Is it safe to reopen schools during the Covid-19 outbreak? What steps should the government take to ensure students’ safety? Send your responses to Chandigarh@hindustantimes.com by May 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ht-chandigarh-our-take-opening-schools-in-times-of-a-raging-pandemic/story-BLU46dalswt8Xm2Ti4pg2N.html
17-05-2020||Delhi||Outstation AIIMS patients in two minds: To stay, or leave?||With little clarity from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) on when the hospital will resume services at its outpatient department (OPD), more than 500 patients and their attendants who had travelled to the Capital for treatment at the premier institute remain unsure of what they should do next.The AIIMS administration had, in the second week of May, said they were planning to resume OPD services in phases, but there has been no confirmation on the specific date.The hospital had shut all its non-emergency departments, including surgical departments and specialty clinics on March 24, a day before the nationwide lockdown came into effect, and kept only its emergency services open for non-Covid patients.Indrajeet Kumar, 25, a resident of Bihar’s Sitamarhi district who travelled to the Capital to get his father treated in early March, said they are waiting till Monday to see if OPD services resume. He said they would return home if the services stay shut.“My father uses crutches to walk and was being treated at the neurology department for a bone infection. He has high blood-sugar levels. But now, we are running out of money,” Indrajeet said.He added that he is not able to record his father’s blood sugar levels on a daily basis because the test strips cost between ₹700-1,000, which he can no longer afford.Dr DK Sharma, medical superintendent, AIIMS, said ,”We plan to resume the OPD services in several departments sometime next week, but the date is yet to be decided. We are trying to see which departments can be resumed in, as most of manpower has so far been dedicated to Covid care.” Most of the 500 people used to camp on pavements or in tents outside the hospital, the government shifted most of them to shelter homes across the city soon on May 3. A few, however, continue to sleep in the lawns at the AIIMS roundabout. Most are battling serious ailments like cancer, heart ailments, disabilities, bone and lung infections, among others. Of these, only cancer patients are able to go for treatment, with the hospital open for chemotherapy.According to Society for the Promotion of Youth and Masses (SPYM), an NGO that runs three of the Delhi government’s shelter homes here, most of the around 1,200 families that had been camping outside the hospital have left for their home towns — some after being given new dates for their treatments, others who decided to come back once the lockdown ends.The caretaker of the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) shelter complex near AIIMS where Kumar is staying said the home initially had 198 occupants, of which around 140 are left now. The rest have left for their home towns.“Around 20 more are planning to leave and are waiting for Monday to check if services at the hospital reopen or not,” said the caretaker, who did not wish to be named.Away from home, trapped in the city with little money and hope, occupants in the shelter have been helping each other procure medicines and other essentials. Those who have smartphones share updates about the lockdown with the rest.For many, the wait has been unending. BP Mathur, came to Delhi from Lucknow in February for his 20-year-old son’s heart surgery. The doctor was supposed to give him a date for the procedure on March 24. “I will wait till next week to get the date, so that we at least know when to return,” Mathur said.Seventeen year-old Rani is paralysed from the waist-down. Her mother, Suman Rajvanshi, said,“We have very little money left now. Shelter authorities have helped us buy essentials, as well as a wheelchair for her. We haven’t been able to see the doctor after March 18, said Suman, who came from West Bengal’s Uttar Dinajpur in March.Rajesh Kumar, executive director, SPYM, an NGO running two of these shelters, said many occupants want to go back home. “For all those who want to go, we get their Covid-19 tests done and get them registered with the government to arrange their travel back. Many have serious illnesses, while some have been given dates for much later,” Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/to-stay-or-not-patients-seeking-treatment-in-aiims-unsure-of-what-to-do/story-Kzxi3FU7oXeGVLMsuQSWNM.html
17-05-2020||Delhi||45-year-old east Delhi municipality school teacher succumbs to Covid-19||A 45-year-old teacher of a primary school of East Delhi Municipal Corporation succumbed to Covid-19 last Monday (May 11), making it the fourth death of a civic body employee in the city.Earlier, two sanitation employees and one teacher had died due to Covid-19, while on duty. East civic body officials said that in the latest case, the 45-year-old teacher was “not on duty” and was in poor health. Some teachers of the civic body have been assigned job of distributing food and ration to the homeless and the underprivileged. Delhi had witnessed 9,333 cases of the virus till Saturday with 129 deaths, according to the Delhi government. East Delhi municipality spokesperson Arun Kumar said that in Saturday’s case the deceased teacher was a resident of Bhajanpura.Kumar further added that though the deceased teacher was not on Covid-19 duty but still the corporation has been taking all precautionary and preventive measures to ensure that the frontline staff is not affected by the virus. “We have provided good quality face masks, gloves and hand sanitisers to the frontline staff. We have also given gum boots to sanitation workers who are engaged with the garbage collection from containment areas,” Kumar said.“The teacher who died of Covid-19 was also suffering from a liver ailment. He used to frequently visit hospitals for treatment. He must have got the viral infection from the hospital. On May 10, he was tested Covid-19 positive and was admitted to Lok Nayak hospital where he died on May 11,” Kumar added.He said that generally teachers are “not considered” frontline workers at municipalities unless they are engaged in special duties, such as ration or food distribution at shelter homes or schools. He said that sanitation employees, DBC (domestic breeding checkers) workers and teachers engaged in ration and food distribution duty are frontline workers.“In this case, the deceased teacher was not engaged in any such duty because of his poor health. He was not on-duty. Though, he was Covid-19 positive when he died, he does not qualify for Delhi government’s Rs 1 crore ex-gratia scheme,” Kumar said.An official of north-east district administration said that since the teacher was not on duty so the threat of other staff members getting Covid-19 infection was little. The official said that contact tracing was underway and the family of the deceased teacher was under home quarantine and the area had been sanitised, he said.Earlier on May 4, a 45-year-old teacher of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation had also died of Covid-19. She was on ration distribution duty in her designated school in Jahangirpuri area. Her husband had also died of the virus on May 3.Other than these, two sanitation workers engaged with the east corporation and South Delhi Municipal Corporation had succumbed to Covid-19 on May 15 and April 25, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/45-year-old-east-delhi-municipality-school-teacher-succumbs-to-covid-19/story-y1OjoeARCZzVdEIvJxvybO.html
17-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi records 400+ cases for three days in a row, tally crosses 9,000-mark||The number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in Delhi rose to 9,333 on Saturday with 438 infections recorded – the third consecutive day the fresh cases were over the 400-mark in the national capital – and with six more deaths taking the toll of 129.The number of those who have recovered from the infectious disease in Delhi rose to 3,926, leaving 5,278 active infections in the city, a health bulletin released by the government showed.The development came even as the government designated two more hospitals – Batra Hospital and Cygnus Orthocare Hospital – for treating Covid-19 patients and those suspected to have contracted the pathogen, taking the total number of dedicated Covid-19 hospitals to 13.The number of containment zones in the national capital was 73, while the number of people who have been put in home quarantine was 1,983.On the six deaths added to the official tally on Saturday a senior government official said: “All these deaths did not necessarily take place in the last 24 hours. There is a gap between occurrence of deaths and final report submitted by the Death Audit Committee. The toll recorded in the health bulletin reflects cases in which the primary cause of death is found to be Covid-19 by the committee.”The committee goes through the case sheets, medical investigations, and the death summary of the deceased before classifying them as Covid-19 deaths. Till Saturday, the data showed, 130,845 individuals were tested for Covid-19 in Delhi and 2,571 were admitted in either hospitals, dedicated Covid Care Centres or quarantine centres. On Friday, a report said that Delhi witnessed 443 “Covid funerals” – including both cremations and burials – since March 14, which included confirmed Covid-19 deaths and those suspected to have been infected.On Saturday, a Delhi government official dismissed the suggestion that the number of deaths from Covid-19 could be higher than the official figure. The official said that following the Covid-19 protocol is mandatory for all funerals in the Capital pertaining to death of individuals from any respiratory ailment, kidney or heart ailment, or those with flu-like symptoms shown immediately before death, irrespective of Covid-19 tests.In March, the Delhi government issued a standard operating protocol for Covid-19 funerals. “The health minister was of the opinion that why take a chance? So, the ambit of the protocol was expanded to cover deaths beyond confirmed cases of Covid-19,” a senior official in the health minister’s office said on condition of anonymity.A senior official in the Delhi chief minister’s office said on condition of anonymity: “The Death Audit Committee follows the guidelines prescribed by the ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research) . All hospitals have been mandated to submit their death summaries to the committee within 24 hours. Death Audit Committee is an independent body which examines each of these cases. Delhi Health Bulletin reflects the figures as declared by the Committee.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/on-third-consecutive-day-with-400-cases-delhi-crosses-9-000-mark/story-gEIO4L87VJTLJbBi4ySgWP.html
17-05-2020||Delhi||15 prisoners, a warder at Delhi’s Rohini jail test positive for coronavirus||Fifteen prisoners and a jail warder of Rohini jail have tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Saturday. Jail officials said all 16 are asymptomatic and have been sent into quarantine. A high alert has also been sounded in Tihar jail, where around 15,000 are currently lodged in different sub-jails. Rohini currently has 1,370 prisoners. Director general (prisons) Sandeep Goel said a 29-year-old prisoner was admitted to the Deen Dayal Upadhyay hospital last Sunday for a surgery. He tested positive for the virus on Wednesday, and doctors informed the prisons department immediately. The department then conducted tests on 19 prisoners and five officials, who had come in contact with the first prisoner. “Their test results came on Saturday and 15 of 19 prisoners tested positive for Covid-19. Of the five jail officials, one tested positive, while the others are negative for the infection. The inmates who have tested positive have been separated from the others. They are being kept in the isolation quarantine barracks. The head warder has been sent to home quarantine. A few other jail staff have also been sent to home quarantine,” Goel said.All 16 prisoners who have tested positive till date have been lodged in Rohini jail for more than two months. With families of prisoners barred from visiting inmates and court hearings currently being held inside the prison over video conferencing, jail officials suspect that the virus may have been spread by an asymptomatic jail official. To contain the disease, the bi-weekly visits of all family members have been cancelled until further notice. Prisoners have been allowed to use the jail’s phone to speak to their family members daily. “At the Tihar complex, all new prisoners are kept in isolation for 14 days in jail number 2, before they are shifted to other jails. We are taking all steps to prevent the spread of the Covid-19. In Rohini, none of the prisoners is new. New prisoners are only sent to isolation wards at Tihar’s sub-jail 2 for 14 days. All prisoners in Rohini’s jail 2 have been lodged there before the lockdown started. We have used the jail’s hospital to quarantine them. Contact tracing of all positive persons is on,” a senior prison official, who did not wish to be named, said. Last week the jail administration had tested three prisoners from Tihar after one of them -- a rape accused -- was found to be in contact with a woman who had tested positive for Covid-19. All three test results, however, were negative.Tihar jail officials have been on high alert after reports emerged of a rapid Covid-19 spread at Mumbai’s Arthur Road jail, where 4,000 prisoners are lodged. The spread happened within a week of the first prisoner contracting the virus, and in all, it had affected 184 prisoners and prison staff. It had also prompted the Maharashtra government to look at releasing half the prisoners in its jails to contain the spread of the disease. Tihar jail officials have also decongested the prison by releasing around 3,000 prisoners on interim bail and parole.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/15-prisoners-one-warder-at-rohini-jail-test-positive-for-covid-19-all-prisons-on-high-alert/story-iD3MzdUHg3NBNxASq09EQN.html
17-05-2020||Delhi||Crowds throng railway station in hope of catching a train home||The roads leading to the New Delhi railway station have been among the busiest in the city, with migrants from across Delhi and neighbouring states visiting the station in the hope of boarding a train home.Police and Railways officials on the ground say that in the last few days, hundreds of migrant labourers have been visiting the station to book tickets at the counters, despite the Railways accepting only e-tickets and the counters being shut. On May 12, the Railways had started 15 pairs of special passenger trains on 30 routes, to and from New Delhi, for which bookings can only be done online.The numbers have been increasing since Tuesday, after the government started passenger train services, in a step towards resuming rail services in a graded manner. A large section of the migrant workers, who are unable to get e-tickets, have been walking to the stations to try their luck at the ticket counters. Many others have left the government’s shelter homes and are walking to their villages in Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh, said officials.The sudden increase of visitors to the railway station has prompted the police and government authorities to reach out to them outside the station, get their Covid-19 tests conducted and help them register for the special Shramik trains. For Shramik trains, migrant workers have to register with the government and need not pay a ticket fee. Interstate bus services continue to remain shut.The government authorities on Saturday reached out to around 150 such migrant workers sitting on the pavements near the station entrances. A kiosk, with two police personnel and a district administration official, has been set up to answer queries and guide migrants on the procedure to register for train journeys. By late afternoon, at least 70 of them were ferried from the station to a screening facility in the district, after which they will be registered for Shramik Special trains and sent back home, said officials.District officials said that on Friday evening, they had shifted over 65 migrants to a thermal screening facility and then to shelter homes, to get them registered for the Shramik trains.At least 7,000 migrants have left for their home towns in Bihar and Madhya Pradesh in five Shramik trains — a special arrangement by the state governments under guidelines issued by the Union home ministry on April 29. While four trains left for Bihar, one for MP, another one left for Tamil Nadu on Saturday noon, which also included around 200 Tablighi Jamaat participants, who were recently discharged from quarantine facilities.Subhash Kumar, his wife Geeta (goes only by her first name) and his brother-in-law started from their rented accommodation in west Delhi’s Uttam Nagar at 6am, on foot, hoping to book tickets at the station. They were able to get an autorickshaw midway, at Kirti Nagar, and were dropped at the station for Rs 200 at around 9am. Till 1.30pm, the trio was waiting to regroup with three other family members, who have been stranded in different places across the city.“We have been trying to make online reservations for four days, but have failed to do so. Last night, we decided to pack up and leave for the station, and enquire about the procedure or catch a private bus from here,” said Kumar, 28, of Sultanpur in Uttar Pradesh’s Lucknow. It was only later in the day that they got to know that buses they had spotted were ferrying migrants to screening centres.In the hot afternoon, pavements outside the station were dotted with groups of people, seated with their luggage, waiting for the buses. Volunteers of a political party distributed food packets and cold drinks to the crowd.Ravi Tandon, a construction labourer, who was accompanied by his wife and two children, was sitting with his head in his hands. He said that the family had been staying at a camp near Shivaji Stadium, but have run out of money and food. “We don’t have a ticket or any money. We just walked to the station to check if we could get a train; if not, we would start our journey to Chhattisgarh on foot. Here, a policeman told us they will ferry us in buses and make arrangements for train travel,” said Tandon, who plans to tend to a small patch of family land in his home town. He said that his father is unwell and mother is not stable, healthwise.The crowd also included a group of 23 tourists from Jharkhand, who had been stuck at a hotel since March 22 and had run out of money. “We have been surviving on food distributed by the NGOs. We had taken rooms for Rs 1,000 a day. Today (Saturday), they handed us a bill of Rs 1.5 lakh, which was not even due. The NGO people helped us settle the matter. We hope to get on the buses being arranged here,” said Savita Das, one of the tourists.The deputy commissioner of police, Railways, Harendra Singh, said that migrants reaching the station are being taken to shelters for screening. “We have been doing this, but people continue to pour into the station. Arrangements have been made with the district authorities to register them for Shramik specials,” said Singh.Meanwhile, the Delhi government on Saturday also directed officials to ensure migrants do not walk on roads and railway tracks. Those doing so would be taken to the closest shelter facility, provided food and water till their travel arrangements to their home towns in special trains and buses, is arranged, as per the directive. It also asked officials to coordinate with the Railways to speed up the process of sending them to their home states.Delhi’s chief secretary Vijay Dev, in a letter on Friday, had asked nodal officer, PK Gupta, to coordinate with the Railways for running more Shramik trains, so that travel of stranded migrant workers can be expedited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/crowds-throng-railway-station-in-hope-of-catching-a-train-home/story-ibBpsQz93eQiqeWXidFd5J.html
17-05-2020||Delhi||HC, city courts to be shut till May 23, continue only urgent video hearings||The Delhi High Court on Saturday extended the suspension of work in the high court and the city courts in the national Capital till May 23, saying that it would hear only urgent matters, as per ongoing practise, in view of the national lockdown, imposed to prevent the spread of the coronavirus (COVID-19) disease.The administrative and general supervision committee of the Delhi High Court, headed by its Chief Justice DN Patel, decided that the restrictions would be in place till May 23 and that urgent matters would continue to be heard by video conferencing. However, the number of single benches would now be increased to 10. Till now, there were two division benches and six single benches to hear matters via video conferencing. “...the functioning of the High Court of Delhi shall continue to remain suspended till May 23 on same terms. The arrangements qua mentioning and hearing of urgent matters by this Court through video conferencing shall continue as before,” the administrative order said.The order said all cases listed in the high court, including before the registrars and joint registrars, between May 18 and 23, have been adjourned to corresponding dates between July 6 and July 11, respectively. The matters listed in the district courts during this period will also be adjourned and the information will be uploaded on their website, the order added.On March 25, the high court had curtailed it’s functioning as well as that of the district courts till April 14. It was then extended to May 3 and later to May 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/work-in-high-court-and-lower-courts-to-stay-suspended-till-may-23/story-MiCd86Yt7n59G6Kol9SUeM.html
17-05-2020||Pune||Man arrested for allegedly stabbing wife to death||A man was arrested by the Pune police for allegedly stabbing his wife to death during a fight in the Sinhgad road area on Saturday.The man has been identified as Santosh Churgude, 32, while the deceased has been identified as Vrushali Churgude, 29, who used to reside with their daughter and other family members at Mahadevnagar area in Dhayari.The couple was fighting when the man allegedly stabbed his wife to death, the reason of the fight could not be ascertained immediately, according to the police.The couple worked in separate private companies in Pune. However, they had both been home due to the lockdown for the past several weeks.The woman was rushed to the hospital by locals, however, she succumbed to her injuries. The police were informed of the case by hospital authorities. Sinhgad road police station officials detained the man and a case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/man-arrested-for-allegedly-stabbing-wife-to-death/story-IgODM0Xh1zqgt3QYAO5JJN.html
17-05-2020||Delhi||Burglars decamp with valuables worth Rs 12 lakhs from JNU professor’s house||A group of men broke into the house of a Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) professor inside the university campus and decamped with cash and jewellery worth around Rs 12 lakh , police said on Saturday. This is the second burglary case reported from within the campus, which is guarded by over 250 private security guards round-the-clock, in a fortnight. Police suspect both the cases to be the handiwork of the same gang.Currently, the entry of outsiders in the campus is restricted because the university are closed. The first incident, police said, had taken place at the government-allotted residence of an Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer in the first week of May. That incident had come to light when a neighbour of the officer — currently posted in Himachal Pradesh — had noticed the break-in and informed him. The officer then filed a police complaint,.Two FIRs have been registered at the Vasant Kunj (north) police station in both the incidents, but no breakthrough had been made in either case till Saturday. “We have registered a house breaking and burglary case under Sections 457 and 380 of Indian Penal Code, against unknown people. Multiple teams are working to crack the cases,” said deputy commissioner of police (south-west) Devender Arya.On the latest break-in, a senior police officer on the condition of anonymity, said that the crime came to their notice on Thursday night after Avijit Pathak, professor in The Centre for the Study of Social Systems (CSSS) of JNU, filed a complaint.Contacted, Pathak questioned the security at the varsity and said that the security guards never allow any teacher or student to enter the campus without proper verification. But when it comes to securing the housing complex, they do nothing. “I have been teaching and living on the campus for the last 30 years and have never faced any such crime. I am surprised that despite the heavy deployment of security guards, the burglars could easily break into my house and flee with cash, jewellery and other valuables,” said Pathak.Pathak in his complaint said that due to the ongoing lockdown, he had locked and left his residence on March 20 to go stay with his daughter, who lives living in nearby Munirka. On May 14 (Thursday), Pathak’s neighbour informed him on phone that the rear door of his house was open.“The professor reached the campus with his daughter and found the rear entrance of his residence broken. They went inside and found the house burgled and household items scattered on the floor. Initially, the professor was not sure what all items were missing. Later, he gave a list of missing cash, jewellery and other valuables, worth around Rs 12 lakh,” said the officer.Another officer, who is part of the investigating team, said crime scene investigation experts visited the professor’s house. After examining the crime scene, they figured that the gang,which had burgled the IAS officer’s house earlier, could be involved, as the modus operandi was similar.“In both the cases, the suspects entered the house after breaking the rear door. The distance between the two houses is approximately 400 metres. We can’t rule out the role of someone from within the campus . The possibility of outsiders gaining entry is also being probed,” said the officer, adding that cash and jewellery worth around Rs 10 lakh had been stolen from the IAS officer’s locked house.In 2016, the police had arrested three members of a gang that had committed a series of burglaries at JNU housing complex. The investigating teams in the latest cases are probing if the arrested burglars are out of jail and are again striking locked houses on the campus, where no CCTV cameras are installed .The station house officer (SHO) of the Vasant Kunj North police station has written a letter to the JNU administration, asking them to increase vigil on campus and intensify patrolling by private security guardss.A senior JNU administration official, who did not want to be named, said, “ The university takes security issues very seriously and patrolling happens regularly. We also issue circulars stating that if people leave the campus, they should inform the security office. This did not happen in both the cases. We are cooperating with the police in the investigation,” said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/gang-breaks-into-jnu-professor-s-house-decamp-with-cash-valuable-worth-rs-12l/story-GBTrJ9z1PHXji8uhRVAXfJ.html
17-05-2020||City||Jewellers see no bright future in Ludhiana post lockdown||With the jewellery sector already reeling under losses due to lockdown, the exodus of the skilled labour from the state has added to the woes of jewellers in the city.The jewellers rued they were already facing an uncertain future due to the shortage of funds with residents and, with the non-availability of skilled labour, they would also be unable to fulfil the orders for the marriages to take place during the next 2-3 months. Skilled labour of Maharshatra, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh has no work as shops have been closed since March 22.President of the Ludhiana Swarnkar Sangh Prince Babbar said, “The labourers have started their journey back home amid lockdown. If the skilled labour making jewellery moved out of the state, the jewellery business would nosedive and face heavy losses. However, we are seeking permission to open our shops as maintaining social distancing is no problem at jewellery stores due to less footfall of customers.”Babbar said they submitted a memorandum with assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Waryam Singh on Friday seeking permission to open their shops and were now planning to meet deputy commissioner (DC) Pradeep Agrawal as jewellery shops in nearby tehsil areas have opened. There are around 400 shops, including wholesalers, in the Sarafa Bazar and nearby areas. A jeweller in Sarafa Bazar, Tribhuvan Thapar, said, “We are facing an uncertain future and, viewing the present trend of very few farmers turning up for purchasing jewellery after the harvesting season, it is unlikely that business would pick up immediately after the lockdown ends. The limited number of guests during marriages would also have effect on our sales.” The jewellers are also concerned over the rising prices of gold in the market. The price per 10gm has crossed the 47,000 mark, which was around Rs 38,000 when lockdown was announced.President, Ludhiana Jewellers Association, Anand Sikri, said, “Our future is uncertain as gold is a luxury and post-lockdown, everyone would prefer to purchasing necessities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jewellers-see-no-bright-business-future-in-ludhiana-even-after-lockdown/story-yREHYs3JlXmiMx7UxLuMKO.html
17-05-2020||City||Ludhiana govt college organises webinar on life insurance as a career||SCD Government College, Ludhiana, conducted a webinar on ‘Life insurance as a career’ on Saturday. It was organised for the second semester students to provide them a platform for their summer internship with Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC). Varinder Dutta, development officer LIC, was the keynote speaker. He talked about the various prospects of insurance sector, how it contributes to the nation’s income and increase in per capita income by speaking about examples of employees’ success stories. Around 75 students of MCom business innovation and post graduate students of commerce and faculty members attended the session. Dharam Singh Sandhu, principal of the college, thanked the speaker for the webinar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-govt-college-organises-webinar-on-life-insurance-as-a-career/story-yF0sXDoblZnJOBomo37eKN.html
17-05-2020||Pune||Pune varsity to hold written exams in July for final year students||After the Maharashtra government issued guidelines, the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has decided to conduct examination for final year students in July. These exams will be in the written format and will be held from July 1 to July 31.According to the SPPU director incharge, evaluation and examination, Arvind Shaligram, the university received a letter from the state government to conduct exams for final year students.“After deliberations with the board of deans and professors, we will be holding written exams in July for final year students across all faculties,” Shaligram said.The exam will be conducted in a batchwise format, wherein a total of 2,50,000 students will appear for an average of seven to eight papers. In addition, those having backlog in the final year will also be appearing for their exams.“We have collated all the data, the availability of the number of classes in colleges which will help decide upon the available infrastructure for the seating arrangement,” Shaligram said. The decision to hold a written exam against that of an online exam was done as the evaluation of these exams has not proven sanctity of 100 per cent result in multiple-choice questions, according to Shaligram.The other factor that went against online exams was that many students are not tech-savvy, or they are located in places where connectivity is an issue. “We are also in the process of discussing the exam pattern with the faculties and will soon upload the exam timetable,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/sppu-to-hold-written-exams-in-july-for-final-year-students/story-KViaf1VaHv8qQ0GKhFkWNP.html
17-05-2020||Pune||54-year old dies waiting for an ambulance in Pune||A man was declared dead at Sassoon General Hospital on Friday morning hours after he complained of chest pain and lost control of his body. The family members watched him lose consciousness as they sat waiting for an ambulance for hours. As the ambulance failed to come, the still body of Yeshudas Moti Francis, 54, was loaded onto a vegetable carrier tempo stopped by the police around 4am.“Type 1 respiratory failure with bilateral pneumonitis in case of hypertension,” reads the ‘cause of death’ section of the death report provided by Sassoon General Hospital. “He had suffered a relapse of hernia after 7-8 years, had blood pressure condition, and faced difficulty in walking without support,” recalls his wife Shobha Francies, also in her 50s. The deceased man had been bedridden for most days over the past 7 years owing to the hernia operation followed by blood pressure. Before that he used to sell flowers near a local dargah.Max Yeshudas Francis, 23, limped outside the narrow lane of his house as his mother called for him outside their house in part of Nana peth located off Jawaharlal Nehru road. He had acquired the job of office boy at a private company only a month before the lockdown was announced.“Around 12:30am, he called me and asked me to take him to the public toilet that we use. As he came out, he lost control of his body completely and fell on me. Everyone gathered around and took him outside and started calling for help,” said Max.The 23-year-old had twisted his ankle as he had spent the previous night pulling the near-limp body of his father out of the narrow lane.The neighbours managed to open the tin-sheet containment seal installed by the police and set a chair for him while waiting for an ambulance. What they did not know was that the wait was going to be for around four hours. “He was barely moving when we got there around 1am. We stopped two ambulances passing by, but one said there was no doctor on-board and second one said they had another call to attend. We asked a local tempo owner who also refused. Meanwhile, continuous follow-ups were happening with the 108 helpline. Finally, they said either one from Wadgaonsheri or Katraj will come after two-hours. Even that did not arrive. We tried a rickshaw too but he had hernia and could not fit in due to the swollen stomach. So, at 4am we stopped a vegetable tempo driver who agreed to take him,” said Hawaldar Deepak Tatey of Samarth police station who assisted the family along with Hawaldar Dhanaji Gophane. “We tried to call private ambulances. We also tried to call the doctor who treats him regularly. He was standing upstairs, but refused to come down and help. The first ambulance driver assigned by 108 was from Kondhwa and said if he comes, he will not touch the man. After some time, as he did not show up, we asked again and he flatly refused to come,” said Sudhir Dhawale, a local social worker who was present with the family.This is not the first incident of ambulance delay or refusal from the area. In the past two months the response time of the ambulances has gone up to 4-5 hours, according to senior police inspector Balkrushna Kadam of Samarth police station. “They ask for bed-confirmation from patients before coming. This has become a regular issue now. People in emergency situations call for 108 ambulances and they do not show up for hours on end,” said PI Kadam.The family has buried the man in Hadapsar cemetery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/54-year-old-dies-waiting-for-an-ambulance-in-pune/story-MsLNZdAaMRR1clQdLqnDwM.html
17-05-2020||Pune||Rs 31.83 crore spent to combat Covid-19; focus on improving health budget: Pune civic chief||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has spent at least Rs 31.83 crore in response to the Covid-19 pandemic, this expenditure includes setting up of Covid-19 care centres, cleaning and maintenance, patient-related expenditure in hospitals and also food expenses related to patients and quarantined citizens.With an increasing number of Covid-19 cases rising on a daily basis, the civic body is now looking at strengthening the health budget in the next five years to strengthen the overall health infrastructure in the city.According to Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad, the civic body will henceforth, prioritise health budget over other less important projects at least for the next five years. “The civic body has spent about Rs 31.83 crore as of yet, which is only the actual amount spent, this number may go up to Rs 60 crore if the bills are disbursed and the amount is settled,” Gaikwad said.“We have incurred a huge expenditure and are spending almost Rs 200 per day per person on food and so for 14 days, this cost becomes around Rs 2,800 per person. This is for all those isolated and undergoing treatment at hospitals and also those who are quarantined. This is a huge expenditure especially considering that there is reduced income,” he addedGaikwad believes that the central government must come up with a directive enforcing all municipal councils and corporations to reserve at least 5 to 10 per cent of their annual budget especially for health in strengthening government hospitals.“I cannot give an exact figure as of now, but at the time of preparing the budget, we will keep these things in mind. Medical equipment like ventilators, ICU facilities, and better hospital infrastructure is expensive. We may have to prioritise health and postpone less important projects like gardens or minor ward level works,” Gaikwad said.The civic body has spent about Rs 31 crore as of yet only for Covid-19 since the first case was detected on March 9. A maximum chunk of this amount has been spent on treatment at hospitals (Rs 10 crore), followed by Rs 7 crore on purchases made by the central department which includes personal protection equipment (PPE) kits, masks, oxygen pipelines, medical equipment and instruments.The cleaning and maintenance of Covid-19 care centres has cost Rs 4 crore and Rs 3 crore has been spent on electrical equipment. The food expenses related to patients and quarantined citizens has also cost Rs 4 crore.In addition, the civic body has proposed 12 lakh cotton masks and a work order has been issued, 3.89 lakh cotton masks have already been distributed. The recruitment of doctors and paramedical staff is in process and a total of 1,017 applications have been received out of which scrutiny process is completed and 497 candidates will be recruited for a period of three months. From the mayor’s funds, as of May 15, medical equipment and instruments along with medicines of worth Rs 56 lakh for Covid-19 patients has been purchased, cold fogging machines and spraying pumps worth Rs 35 lakh has been purchased for spraying of sodium hypochlorite in the vicinity of positive cases.An oxygen pipeline and industrial washing machine has also been installed at Naidu Hospital to support patients, building modifications and maintenance work of various quarantine centres and Covid-19 care centres is being done on an emergency basis.N-95 masks, PPE Kits and sanitisers worth Rs 63 lakh have been purchased and under DPDC pulse oxymeter, thermometers, PPE kits, N-95 masks, thermal guns worth Rs. 1 crore have been procured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rs-31-83-crore-spent-to-combat-covid-19-focus-on-improving-health-budget-pune-civic-chief/story-6dYzis1nifKOxhSZxHcjhO.html
17-05-2020||Delhi||Curbs relaxed or not, Delhi’s Chandni Chowk to stay shut till May 31||The Capital’s iconic Chandni Chowk market will stay shut till May 31, the traders union said on Saturday. The move comes at a time when the Delhi government is exploring ways to reopen markets in the city that have been shuttered since the national lockdown to curb the spread of Covid-19 was imposed on March 25. Sanjay Bhargava, president Chandni Chowk Sarva Vyapar Mandal, said the decision was taken for the “greater good”. “Chandni Chowk is one of the busiest markets of the city. Social distancing is almost impossible because of the paucity of space. So, we have decided to extend lockdown in the market till May 31 in view of high number of cases being reported in Delhi. It is for the security and safety of traders, their staff and general public. By the end of May, the graph of Covid-19 is also expected to go down a bit,” Bhargava said.Delhi had recorded 9,333 cases of the virus till Saturday, with 129 deaths, according to the Delhi government. The Mughal-era market is one of the biggest textile and cloth markets in the city. As per the traders’ association estimates, around a lakh people visited the market every day between October 2019 and March 2020. The third phase of the national lockdown will come to an end on May 17 and is expected to continue with more relaxations as far as the movement of people and vehicles and opening of businesses are concerned. Though an official order to open markets in the city is yet to be issued, the Delhi government asked the Centre that markets in the Capital be allowed to open on an ‘odd-even’ basis from May 18 onwards. Chandni Chowk falls in the central Delhi district, and is close to many containment zones such as Chandni Mahal, Nabi Karim, Sadar Bazar, and Ballimaran. The district has reported at least over 100 positive cases so far.Ram Mehrotra, a local businessman,said the market has become more crowded ever since the Chandni Chowk redevelopment project began in December 2018. Work was to be completed in June 2019 but was extended to March 2020. The main road between Red Fort and Fatehpuri Masjid has been dug up under the redevelopment project, which aims to decongest the market and make it pedestrian-friendly. “The situation got worse over the last festival season, with over one lakh people visiting the market a day. If the market is opened again, social distancing norms will be hard to follow. So it’s better if we keep it closed for 15 more days and open it when a concrete plan is in place,” Mehrotra said.The market association has also requested the Central as well as the Delhi government to release SOPs (standard operating procedure) for all the markets across the city at least 10 days before lifting the lockdown. “The government should very clearly tell us about the ‘dos and don’t’ before opening of the markets. The ways to maintain social distancing and minimise crowding should also be specifically mentioned,” Bhargava said.Meanwhile, market associations across the city have started drafting their own SOPs in the hope the government will allow markets to open from May 18. Devraj Baweja, member Sadar Bazar Market Association, said, “We are yet to get any directive on reopening of markets but we are mulling how to ensure social distancing. Not more than two people will be allowed in a shop at a time, thermal screening will be mandatory and we will make circles outside shops, at distances of at least one metre,” he said.Ashwani Marwah, general secretary Traders Association Lajpat Nagar (TALN) said the market association would ensure all visitors follow social distancing norms and that customers are screened before entering shops.Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung Hospital, welcomed the decision and called it an example of community participation in combating a crisis.“Opening of markets is necessary but maintaining social distancing and ensuring that virus does not spread is a responsibility to be shouldered by the government and the community. Chandni Chowk is more crowded than any other market in the city so it’s fine to wait for some time before opening it up,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandni-chowk-to-stay-shut-till-may-31-says-traders-union/story-P0niD9SZ9I6HSH9XzqbGgN.html
17-05-2020||Pune||Govt, private offices in Pune likely to reopen post May 18: Civic chief||There will be more relaxations in non-containment areas post May 18, while at the same time the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will review containment zones, said Shekhar Gaikwad, PMC, municipal commissioner.Gaikwad along with Rubal Agarwal, Pune’s additional municipal commissioner, visited the ‘command control war room’ located at the Smart City office on Sinhgad road. The real-time data at the control room helps PMC draw out an action plan with regards to the spread of the Covid -19 (coronavirus) pandemic.“The relaxations could be expected in three sectors like the opening of private offices, functioning of government establishments at 100 per cent and opening of all types of trades. We will follow the guidelines issued by the Centre and state governments for adding additional relaxations,” said Gaikwad.The PMC commissioner had identified 69 sites within the PMC limits to having more number of Covid-19 cases and had imposed stricter lockdown measures while in the other areas, they had relaxed the lockdown allowing the opening of shops and opening of roads. “We have on average visited 50,000 houses in the past two months, and visited 1.5 lakh, people, daily,” he added.“With the festival season around, we will ensure that people from containment zones will receive the supply of essential items, food and medicines, with 3.1 per cent of the area being under strict lockdown,” said Gaikwad.“The rate doubling of cases has increased to 13 days now while the death rate has dropped to 5.18 per cent, which is still more than the state and national average, but we are expecting a further drop in the next two weeks”, said Gaikwad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/govt-private-offices-in-pune-likely-to-open-post-may-18-civic-chief/story-CtGfMpNbzwMcYK0Et7cjFO.html
17-05-2020||City||Three held for making extortion calls to potato trader in Ludhiana||Three men have been arrested for making extortion calls to a Giaspura-based potato trader, police said on Saturday. The accused allegedly demanded Rs 2 lakh from the trader, Santosh Kumar, of Makkar Colony, Giaspura, and threatened him that they would harm his family members if he failed to pay up. They even vandalised the window pane of his car parked outside his house.The trio has been identified as Sukhdev Singh alias Sonu of Arjan Nagar, Daresi, Surjit Singh alias Vicky of Mohalla Nanak Nagar and Bajrangi of Karabara. One of their accomplices, Pawan Kumar, is yet to be arrested.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, city 2), Jaskiranjit Singh Teja, said that Santosh made a complaint to them on Friday, stating that he had been receiving extortion calls from an unknown number for the past few days. “Initially, he took the calls lightly and did not inform us until the accused damaged the window pane of his car. Earlier, he assumed that someone was trying to play a prank on him,” the ADCP (city 2) said.ACCUSED WORKED IN MANDI VISITED BY VICTIM DAILYThe accused are known to the trader as they work in the potato mandi where he visits daily for business. The trader looked like an easy target to the trio following which they plotted the plan, the policeman said.A case has been registered under Sections 384 (punishment for extortion), 427 (whoever commits mischief and thereby causes loss or damage to the amount of fifty rupees or upwards), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code at Sahnewal police station. A motorcycle and a mobile phone that was used in making the extortion calls have been recovered from the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-held-for-making-extortion-calls-to-potato-trader-in-ludhiana/story-3wXakfcU99kpg23DE6is0J.html
17-05-2020||Pune||Bhavani peth SRA building reports 35 Covid-19 cases; project sealed||At least 35 Covid-19 positive cases have been identified from a single Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA) building located at Bhavani peth, near Nishant Theatre, after the residents came in contact with a sanitation worker who works at a private hospital. The building is part of the six building complex and has been declared as a containment zone with no entry or exit allowed, said officials.​According to officials, the cases were detected between May 14 and May 16. Around 400 swabs have collected as of Saturday. ​According to PMC commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad with these fresh cases, the civic body will soon decide whether to announce the area surrounding the building as an additional micro-containment zone.“We have found a large number of cases from a single building at Manjul Bai chawl. Currently, we have about 69 containment zones in the city and we will decide whether to announce it as an additional containment zone or merge into the nearby ones at Bhawani peth or DP road ward areas,” said Gaikwad. The building comes under Dhole Patil road ward and has become a new challenge for the authorities. The female sanitation worker, who was the primary source of infection, has been admitted to the hospital where she was working. The area was inspected by Saurabh Rao, nodal officer for the area and also by Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol. ​Dhole Patil road ward officer Dayanand Sonkamble said, “With the help of police and also daily rations kits being provided, we hope to ensure that the suspected patients remain inside their homes for at least 7-10 days. The woman probably had symptoms for a few days, but continued going to work which led to an escalation in the spread of the virus.”Currently the entire complex of six buildings has been sealed and the positive patients are being shifted to the Nicmar isolation facility at Aundh. The suspected patients are being quarantined in a vacant building of the same complex and the negative patients are being sent home for quarantine, said officials.​||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/bhavani-peth-adds-to-pmc-s-virus-burden-after-building-reports-35-covid-19-cases/story-T863x7hh56qywiIjpswVFO.html
17-05-2020||Pune||Former Maha CM Chavan slams Centre, state govt for failing to address issues of migrants||Former Maharashtra chief minister and senior congressman Prithviraj Chavan pointed out the shortcomings of the Maharashtra government as well as the Centre in its fight against Covid-19 and handling of the migrant workers issue.Chavan, while speaking to journalists through a video conference on Saturday, said both the Centre and state government have failed to ensure smooth return of migrants. Chavan’s Congress party is part of the Maha Vikas Aghadi government of which the Shiv Sena and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) are the other two key players.Reacting to a query on the exodus of the migrant labourers from the state, Chavan alleged that both the Centre and the Maharashtra government have been ‘frugal’ in refusing to spend money in taking the migrants back home.“I feel that there was a major shortcoming on the part of the Centre and the state government regarding the way we are treating the migrant workers and not spending money on them. It was our human responsibility to send the migrant workers back to their states and we have failed in it completely,” Chavan said, adding that with migrants gone, a labour shortage crisis might soon occur. The former chief minister said that there is a need to create dedicated accommodation facilities for labourers. Large number of migrant workers had to leave for their respective states on feet or through private vehicles as the Centre and state did not initially organise public transport. It was after the first week of May that the railway ministry organised special trains while the state government allowed state transport buses for labourers.Chavan also advised chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to assert leadership in ensuring efficient working from bureaucrats.“I have a suggestion for the chief minister and he should take it positively without seeing it as criticism. The chief minister’s important task is to appoint right persons at the right place especially when there is inconsistency in the implementation of government orders. This is mostly because power has been given to sub-divisional officers, district collectors and divisional commissioners,” said Chavan while addressing a query on lack of coordination between various officials and absence of leadership in Maharashtra. “Currently there are around 10 senior IAS officers who have no work. On the contrary, there are officers handling the charge of two different ministries. So, the chief minister should issue an order and fill up these posts in one day. After giving them regular appointments, they can be given other responsibilities,” said Chavan.Chavan pointed out that the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation is sitting on ample money; the leadership there is not in a position to use it properly. “BMC has thousands of crores in the bank and the money can be utilised in boosting local infrastructure. But the leadership there is unable to do it properly,” Chavan said, when asked about his view of BMC keeping large a sum in the bank as fixed deposits. It was Chavan who had last week advised the Centre to take back gold from temples to mitigate a financial crisis, a suggestion that evoked sharp responses from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Chavan also expressed his disappointment over the announcements made by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in terms of Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus package.“The main challenge we have is how to bring the economy back on track, how to turn the wheels of the economy. I welcome the stimulus package announced by the central government, but after listening to the announcements made by the finance minister, I’m disappointed,” Chavan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/fmr-maha-cm-chavan-slams-centre-state-govt-for-failing-to-address-issues-of-migrants/story-zkaOae46FyloAcbEdKuVqO.html
17-05-2020||Pune||Thunderstorm brings trees down in Pune; rain forecast stays till May 17||PUNE Parts of Pune witnessed thunderstorms accompanied by lightning, rain and gusty winds on Thursday, leading to several incidents of trees falling. No major instances of damage or injuries were reported, according to the city’s fire brigade.Areas like Kothrud, Sangvi, Pashan, Hadapsar, Prabhat road, Law College road, Aundh, Gokhale nagar, Keshav bagar, Sinhagad road, Kalyani Nagar, Cantonment, and Thergaon, received heavy rain as the weather took a turn post noon, with the temperature dipping to 39 degrees Celsius, from 39.8 degrees Celsius earlier in the day.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) recorded 002.5mm of rainfall at Shivaji nagar till 5.30 pm. The gushing winds brought down trees with the fire brigade recording 15 such incidents.According to fire brigade officials, two incidents in Koregaon park saw tree branches falling, while similar isolated incidents were reported in Pashan, Kalyani nagar, Yerawada and Mundhwa.The IMD forecast for the city cited cloudy skies with very light to light rain; thundery activity; lightning and gusty winds on May 15, with the maximum temperature at 40 degrees Celsius, and the minimum at 23 degrees Celsius.May 16 and May 17 will also see a partly cloudy sky post noon, followed by thundery activity with the maximum temperature hovering around the 39 to 40 degrees Celsius mark, and the minimum at 22 degrees Celsius.The IMD forecast cited favourable conditions for the advance of the Southwest Monsoon into some parts of southeast Bay of Bengal, Andaman sea and Andaman Nicobar Islands around May 16. “The low pressure area over southeast Bay of Bengal and adjoining south Andaman Sea is very likely to concentrate into a depression over central parts of south Bay of Bengal on May 15, and further intensify into a cyclonic storm over same region by the 16th evening. It is very likely to move northwestwards initially till May 17 and then re-curve north-northeastwards towards north Bay of Bengal on May 18-19,” said an IMD statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thunderstorm-brings-trees-down-in-pune-rain-forecast-stays-till-may-17/story-1zZ5TXxlu7RpNxtyHyzogO.html
