19-05-2020||City||Panvel starts online sale of liquor||Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) on Tuesday permitted online sale of alcohol with home delivery in its jurisdiction. Counter sale of liquor is not permitted.The decision comes around 10 days after PCMC allowed stand-alone shops to open in its areas.Panvel municipal commissioner Ganesh Deshmukh said, “The state government has permitted home delivery of liquor and issued guidelines accordingly. We have allowed home delivery of liquor from today.”Deshmukh said, “If any shopkeeper is found indulging in counter sale, strict action will be taken against him. The officials have been ordered to seal such shops.”On Tuesday, Panvel recorded 18 new cases, taking the total to 289.Navi Mumbai recorded two Covid deaths and 57 new cases on Tuesday.The total tally in the city is 1,321. Among the 57 positive cases, the highest is from Turbhe at 15, followed by Nerul at 12 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panvel-starts-online-sale-of-liquor/story-YlSJFTeBNqcgdlH0WbIGTO.html
19-05-2020||Mumbai||HC asks centre whether it will introduce cap on rates of N95 masks||The Bombay high court on Tuesday directed the centre to inform it of any initiative being taken by them to put a ceiling on the price of the N95 masks that have been declared as an essential commodity under the Essential Commodities Act. The directions by the bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice S S Shinde were prompted after social activists Sucheta Dalal and Anjali Damania filed public interest litigation through senior advocate Mihir Desai complaining of black marketing and hoarding of N95 masks in the city and state. The N95 masks have been recommended for safeguarding against the coronavirus. The petitioners complained that due to the shortage of the masks, frontline workers involved in combating the spread of the virus were unable to get them and hence hoarding and black marketing of the same should be prevented. The petitioners suggested that a ceiling on the rate of the masks should be introduced to achieve the same. After hearing the submissions the bench directed additional solicitor general Anil Singh to take instructions on whether the centre was planning to introduce a ceiling on the rate of the masks and inform the court of the same and posted the matter for hearing on May 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-asks-centre-whether-it-will-introduce-cap-on-rates-of-n95-masks/story-VkAtmxjLh4fCZ3yQVK592I.html
19-05-2020||Mumbai||30% of Covid-19 deaths recorded in city in past 7 days||The death toll in the city due to Covid-19 reached 800, with 43 deaths reported on Tuesday alone. Fifteen of these 43 deaths were recorded between May 6 and 15 but were added to the count only yesterday. Of the total deaths in Mumbai, 30% were recorded in the past seven days alone. Total cases in Mumbai have now crossed the 22,000 mark and the deaths have reached 800 due to Covid-19, 244 of which were recorded between May 13 and 19. According to statistics based on data released by the ministry of state health and family welfare, the city witnesses an average one death per hour due to Covid-19. At the state level, on average, two deaths due to the coronavirus are reported per hour.As per data released by the state health department, between May 10 and 18, Maharashtra recorded 417 deaths, of which 249 were in Mumbai. This equates to an average of 1.93 (state) and 1.15 (city) deaths per hour.On May 18, the state’s infected count reached 35,058, with 12,887 new cases reported in one day. Mumbai recorded 1,411 new cases the same day, taking the total in the city to 22,746. One of the largest slums of the country, Dharavi, has reported 1,353 cases so far, of which 26 were reported on Tuesday. The G north ward which covers Dadar, Mahim, and Dharavi, is one of the administrative wards with the highest number of Covid-19 cases. The ward has a total of 1,763 cases so far, of which 234 are in Mahim and 176 cases are from Dadar.According to BMC data, there are 5,030 beds in dedicated Covid hospitals (DCH), which includes 38 public and private hospitals. The capacity of dedicated Covid health centres (DCHC) is 1,100 beds in 19 hospitals with public sector hospitals accounting for 868 of the bed capacity. In a press release issued by the BMC on Tuesday, the civic body said, “In all, the target is to achieve 10,000 beds of DCH and DCHC. The intensive care unit (ICU) beds currently available are 535, which is being augmented to 1,000 beds.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/30-of-covid-19-deaths-recorded-in-city-in-past-7-days/story-2KjG8KaEJZ9TRHnohYIezH.html
19-05-2020||Chandigarh||One death, 2-yr-old among three test positive in Punjab||A 27-year-old man from Gagandeep Colony in Bhattian Bet village of Ludhiana district died even as three fresh cases, including a 2-year-old girl, were recorded in Punjab on Tuesday.Surinder Singh of Salem Tabri police station in Ludhiana said, victim Rinku was rushed to civil hospital on May 15 and he tested positive of Covid-19 posthumously. Prima facie investigations suggest Rinku was hooked to drugs.A 2-year-old girl, who had undergone an intestinal surgery at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH), also tested positive after which 35 hospital staffers, including doctors and paramedics, were home quarantined.Two fresh cases were reported in Amritsar on Tuesday.“A 35-year-old man and 25-year-old woman of Amritsar had gone to Banga recently and their swab samples were taken as part of a routine check-up. They were found positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday and have been admitted to the civil hospital in Banga. Their contact tracing is on,” said Amritsar civil surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/one-death-2-yr-old-among-three-test-positive-in-punjab/story-35AguQmP7oZerVxxWRBodN.html
19-05-2020||Mumbai||Reopen offices, private businesses in phases, Pawar tells Maharashtra govt||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar is in favour of reopening the state’s economy and on Tuesday requested chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray to look into the possibility of allowing shops, offices and other private establishments to open in phases in Maharashtra. Pawar has asked the government to take appropriate steps to start road transport services and create policies to attract investment and industries in the state.Pawar made these suggestions at a meeting held between Thackeray and the NCP chief at the former mayoral bungalow at Dadar, allotted for the proposed memorial of Shiv Sena founder Bal Thackeray.Senior ministers of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government also held a meeting to discuss the draft guidelines for lockdown 4.0, following which they were issued.Thackeray has leaned in favour of caution and decided against lifting restrictions in red zones. The state has, however, limited the areas in red zones to cities instead of entire districts.In a series of tweets posted after the meeting, Pawar said, “To bring the economy back on track, lockdown restrictions need to be eased further. Please see how we can allow the functioning of shops, offices, and other private establishments in phases.”In another tweet, he mentioned, “The public transport system is completely stopped in the state. We will have to take steps to start road transport services gradually and also have a time-bound program ready to restore flights and train services.”Pawar further suggested that an action plan should accommodate local unemployed youths in the industrial sector as a large number of migrant workers have returned to their respective states.The former chief minister also advocated for a new policy with incentive schemes to attract more investment and industries. He said that the directives issued by the state government for the operation of industries seem insufficient and suggested that the focus should be on bringing back those workers from Maharashtra and other states who have returned to their villages as it has become difficult for the industries to start their operations. “This has also created an opportunity for the local unemployed youths of the state. An action plan should be made to accommodate them in the industrial sector,” he proposed.The NCP chief also called for discussions with industrialists and experts to increase import-export business and water transport as activities.Pawar said the government needs to build confidence among the people that the situation is improving. For that, he suggested that ministers and officers should start attending their offices on a regular basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/reopen-offices-private-businesses-in-phases-pawar-tells-maharashtra-govt/story-6SSIAX5wWOEusgwqAhJIuO.html
19-05-2020||Mumbai||City dentist can resume practice with certain restrictions||The Union health ministry has issued new guidelines that allow dentists in the city to resume their practice with certain restrictions.As per the guidelines, patients in containment zones may seek ambulance services to travel to dental facilities. In red zones, only emergency dental procedures can be performed. Clinics in orange and green zones can provide dental consults. Dental clinics must have good ventilation. Ceiling fans should be avoided. Patients should inform clinics in case of any symptoms of Covid-19. The Centre has also advised dentists to start taking hydroxychloroquine as a preventive measure.Due to the risks involved, over 35,000 dentists Maharashtra had shut their clinics. “We have to look into people’s mouths which is the main source of infection spread. As almost 80% of patients are asymptomatic, we may end up infecting ourselves. The aerosols [clumps of small particles floating in the air] produced during treatment can infect other patients,” said Dr Avinash Joshi, an orthodontist from Bandra.Dr Vivek Pakhmode, dean of Government Dental College, said they have not received the new guidelines. “We are ready to start selective treatment procedures with precautionary measures. Once we get the guidelines, we will start the service,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/city-dentist-can-resume-practice-with-certain-restrictions/story-FqnpoLh84FPcfnUM10KbKL.html
19-05-2020||Lucknow||Migrant workers pedal 380 km for three days to reach Moradabad||A group of migrants with no food and money peddled around 380 km for three days from Uttarakhand to reach Moradabad Uttar Pradesh. With the continuing nationwide lockdown, the daily wagers were stranded in Uttarkashi district of Uttarakhand and were left without any work.The migrants, who were working at construction sites in the neighbouring state, said they left Uttarkashi for their respective home towns on bicycles and reached Moradabad on Monday morning, where they were intercepted by the police.Some of these workers, identified as Ashok, Raman, Rajesh, Rajan Sahani, among others, were sent to a shelter home located in the area by the Moradabad police who found them cycling at 6 am on the highway near zero point in Mundha Pandey.Besides the usual hardships during the journey, they were frequently stopped by police, and some cops at a check-post near Bijnor district reportedly misbehaved with them. “We somehow managed to survive in our workplace. Then left with nothing at all we decided to leave for home on bicycles. We had to pedal for around 380 km and it took us three days to reach Moradabad. We are now totally exhausted and request the authorities to assist us in reaching our homes,” said Rajesh, one of the migrants. Amit Anand, SP city, Moradabad said, “Several migrants were arriving at our district border daily. We are providing them assistance, especially those on foot or bicycles. The migrants are being sent to shelter homes in the nearby areas where they are undergoing screening, and given food. We will ensure that they reach their destinations. For the purpose, UPSRTC buses have also been arranged.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/migrant-workers-pedal-380-km-for-three-days-to-reach-moradabad/story-cdhlIcSGPpLB6TCRg321CL.html
19-05-2020||Chandigarh||Partap Bajwa seeks probe into liquor smuggling, revenue loss||Congress MP Partap Singh Bajwa on Tuesday demanded a probe by a central agency into the rampant liquor smuggling and loss of excise revenue in Punjab.In a series of tweets, Bajwa said the liquor mafia was growing in the state and it was time to allow a central agency or a sitting judge who is independent of the government of Punjab to investigate this immediately. The Rajya Sabha MP said the provisional accounts of the state government showed that the excise department missed its revenue targets in the last three years of the Congress government and by a larger amount each year.“These losses must have arisen due to the illegal smuggling of liquor across state boundaries by distilleries to evade excise taxes with the help of dept officials,” he tweeted, referring to cases registered under the Excise Act during the curfew period.The Rajya Sabha MP said the legacy of the Congress government in the state must not be that of failing to rein in the liquor mafia and the government-contractor nexus. “Given that the govt’s own accounts showcase revenue targets being missed, how is it that you have publicly declared that this is not true? Will you please explain to the people of Punjab by what you meant by that statement?” he asked chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/partap-bajwa-seeks-probe-into-liquor-smuggling-revenue-loss/story-sVxJgiCepyqKibBFSOyMfL.html
19-05-2020||Mumbai||1,972 Indians brought back to Maharashtra under Vande Bharat Mission||Around 1,972 Indians have been brought to Maharashtra, under Vande Bharat Mission, started to bring back stranded Indian nationals from May 7. All have been kept under institutional quarantine facility developed by the state government for 14 days, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Tuesday.Of them, 822 are from Mumbai, 1,025 are from other parts of the state and the rest 125 are from other states of the country. With the help of 13 flights, these Indians have been brought back from ten different countries of the world. Thackeray said that they are expecting more people under the mission as 27 more flights are expected to be operated.As per tentative plan provided by Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), 2,609 passengers were expected to arrive at Mumbai airport in the first phase of the mission, said a senior official, requesting anonymity. Over 1.88 lakh Indians have registered with MEA to return to the country so far, of them 13,403 are from Maharashtra, he said.Maximum 653 Indians have been brought back from London (England), 243 from Singapore, 208 from New York (United States), 201 from Kuala Lumpur (Malaysia), 195 from Chicago (United States), 150 from Manila (Philippines), 107 from San Francisco (United States), 107 from Dhaka (Bangladesh), 78 from Addis Ababa (Ethiopia), 16 from Muscat (Oman) and 12 have been brought from Kabul in Afghanistan.Thackeray said all those who are from Mumbai have been kept in institutional quarantine facilities developed at various hotels in the city, while who are from other parts of the state have been sent to the respective districts. “We have also kept all those in Mumbai who are not from Maharashtra but their states have refused to take them back as of now,” said the chief minister.Meanwhile, the state government has employed 5.92 lakh labourers under the Employment Guarantee Scheme (EGS). The chief minister office in a statement issued on Tuesday said they have started 46,530 works under the scheme and has provided employment to 5,92,525 workers in the state. All the district collectors have been directed to employ all those who want work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/1-972-indians-brought-back-to-maharashtra-under-vande-bharat-mission/story-nHNLPmMezBktzy3yeKL11I.html
19-05-2020||Chandigarh||4,000 litre raw liquor seized from Akali leader’s tubewell storehouse in Patiala||Nearly 4,000 litre extra-neutral alcohol (ENA), a raw material used for making liquor, was seized from a storehouse at the tubewell of a Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader at Pabri village in Patiala district on Monday night.Darshan Singh, who remained SAD’s block samiti member from 2013 to 2018, was arrested after the recovery, police officials said.Patiala senior superintendent of police (SSP) Mandeep Singh Sidhu said, “Acting on a tip off, a police team raided the tubewell storehouse and found neutral ethanol that was kept in 20 drums.”An excise department official was also called to the spot, the SSP said, adding that a case was registered in this regard and an investigation was on. “Of the seized ENA, nearly 7,000 litre liquor can be made. The accused has been in illicit liquor business for the last five years,” an official said.The excise and taxation department has started investigation into pilferage of ENA, which is used by the mafia to make illicit liquor. “We have taken the accused on remand and will probe from where he procured ENA. Directions have been issued to all DSPs and station house officers (SHOs) that they will be held personally liable if anyone was found selling illicit liquor in their area,” said the SSP. Congress MLA Madan Lal Jalalpur said that recovery of raw liquor material shows that SAD leaders are involved in liquor trade in the area. “A bottling plant found by police was also being run by some BJP leaders whom I will expose in the coming days. The role of excise officials should also be probed as liquor is being smuggled on a large scale through the Punjab-Haryana border,” he said. Admitting that sarpanch Amrik Singh, who was booked in the bottling plant case, was close to him, Jalalpur claimed to have no knowledge of his illegal activities. Earlier, the SAD had demanded a probe against local Congress leaders in the bottling plant case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/4-000-litre-raw-liquor-seized-from-akali-leader-s-tubewell-storehouse-in-patiala/story-a1c8JWsVXwvomKwZbMTEbO.html
19-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab not to delineate red, orange or green zones||Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Tuesday said the state has decided to delineate only the containment zones to curb the spread of Covid-19 pandemic and not red, orange and green zones as earlier.Containment zone is an area around epicentre of 15 cases or more in a village/ward. It can also be a small group of adjacent villages/wards.In a statement, the minister said that period of containment will be of minimum 14 days. “If in a week, there is no new case or only one new case, the area will be opened. Otherwise period of containment will be extended by one week at a time,” he said.78% COVID PATIENTS CUREDSidhu also said Punjab has become the leading state in the country to battle coronavirus by achieving 78% recovery rate of Covid-19 patients.He said that out of 1,980 patients, 1,557 cases have been cured.The minister said ‘Risk Stratified Random Sampling’ will be done (in case of frequent travellers, front line workers, people with co-morbidity and people living in densely populated areas etc) across the state and focus kept on high risk areas and high risk individuals to further prevent the spread of coronavirus. Instructions have been issued to civil surgeons in this regard.He said that 1,252 of the total 4,218 Nanded-returnees tested positive and all of them have been declared cured and sent to their homes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-not-to-delineate-red-orange-or-green-zones/story-zhvf5xA5YiGyIXYBjp6PiN.html
19-05-2020||Chandigarh||Detail plan on building low-rental houses for the poor: HC to Punjab, Haryana, UT||The high court on Tuesday directed the Punjab, Haryana governments and the Chandigarh administration to give details on their plan to construct low-rental houses for labourers and slum dwellers as part of the Centre’s Rs 20 lakh crore economic stimulus to help thousands of migrants hit by Covid-19.“The states are bound to provide low-rental housing and food to women and children living in colonies in view of Article 21 of the Constitution that provides for protection and life with dignity to every citizen. Now the states have to take a decision on implementing the Centre’s decision so that crime rate does not increase,” the bench of justice Ritu Bahri said during the resumed hearing of a pending case wherein the court is monitoring social and economic welfare schemes for children and women in the two states and the union territory.The bench underlined that despite the lockdown and restrictive functioning of courts, the matter is being taken up in view of central government’s decision. The details have been sought by May 28.The Chandigarh administration had told the court that that it had 5,500 families living in various ‘kutcha’ colonies in Sector-25, Maloya, Palsora etc.It also informed the court that land for construction of houses has been identified and the file is pending with the Centre.The bench directed the central government’s counsel to apprise it on next date of hearing as to why file is not being cleared, especially in the wake of recent decision. It was pointed out that the cost of land is very high in Chandigarh. The court, however, opined that the cost of the land cannot be made a basis for construction of houses of labourers and slum dwellers keeping in view the present situation. “Now, the UT administration should take a decision on implementing the Centre’s decision,” the bench observed.Besides, the respondents were directed to provide details of the budget sanctioned for the same and how the funds will be used.They were also told to list out the steps taken to provide uniform to safai karamcharis collecting garbage and mid-day meal to women and children in colonies where there is no anganwari. The court also suggested that the states consider buying of vegetables from farmers and distribute the same labourers/slum dwellers by roping in non-governmental organisations (NGOs).The UT administration was also told to apprise the court of the wages paid to these safai karmacharis. It has also to detail the process of giving ration to the labourers in colonies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/detail-plan-on-building-low-rental-houses-for-the-poor-hc-to-punjab-haryana-ut/story-2V9Y39EhuH1ZIHmxDhE0JK.html
19-05-2020||Chandigarh||Indian Coffee House: Even in Covid times, a story that’s brewing||In the last two months, Covid-19 has totally changed the way we live, work and think. Social distancing has become a new norm, the mask a new accessory. But one thing Covid could not change is the loyal clientele of Sector 17’s iconic Indian Coffee House, who have been devoted fans for more than five decades.With further relaxation in the fourth-phase of lockdown, allowing eateries to open their kitchens for home deliveries or take-away from Tuesday, more than 100 of the café’s old customers strolled over to the Sector 17 market complex to enjoy their hot coffee. The only difference now is that for the first time, since ICH opened in Chandigarh (first in Sector 22 in 1964, later shifted to Sector 17 in April 1970), the brew was served in disposal glasses and for takeaway only. “I visited Indian Coffee House for the first time in 1974 as a teenager, and since then it is an integral part of my life. My friends and I enjoyed our last coffee here on the evening of March 21, and at that time we were the only ones. Since then, we have eagerly awaited the day we would enjoy our cup of coffee again,” says Dr Rajesh Dhir, 59, head of department of ENT at the Sector 16 government hospital.On Tuesday, after almost two months, the regular group of six came together for their round of coffee, he says, adding that three of them got their own cups while the rest took their coffee in disposal glasses.“For the last two months, on account of professional commitments, I have had a hectic schedule, like every other health service personnel, in the battle against the virus. But Indian Coffee House’s coffee has rejuvenated me. It’s (referring to ICH coffee) the only addiction I have,” added Dr Dhir, who is also the president of Indian Medical Association’s Chandigarh chapter. Ramesh Dutt, manager at ICH, Sector 17, is all smiles. “Today more than 100 of our regular customers came for coffee. But in view of the UT’s guidelines, we couldn’t invite our decades old customers inside and had to serve them in disposable cups for takeaway,” says Dutt.Apart from hot coffee, there were orders for other food, too, at ICH. “Our Tuesday sale was about ₹5000, but before lockdown, our average daily sale was around ₹60,000 to ₹70,000. We are hoping for better sales in coming days. Even during this health crisis our customers have shown faith in us, so we have to go out of our way to serve them,” says Dutt.The four-year-old Sector-36 ICH branch also opened on Tuesday for takeaway and most customers ordered coffee, as per Arjun Singh, manager at the branch. Set up in May 1964, the café has hosted top dignitaries such as former prime minister Chandra Shekhar, deputy prime minister Devi Lal and hordes of Bollywood stars. The Indian Coffee House is a one-of-a-kind eatery. It is perhaps the only chain in the country where employees themselves are the employers. After the All India Coffee Board decided to shut down its branches of Coffee Houses across the country in 1957, it retrenched its class four workers.The ‘redundant’ workers, under the guidance of AK Gopalan, then All India Coffee Board Labour Union leader, and Member of Parliament Subhadra Joshi, formed their own co-operative societies which came to be known as ‘Indian Coffee Workers Co-operative Society’. Soon, the co-operative society started its own branches of Indian Coffee House in several states. The first one came into being in Delhi on October 27, 1957, while the Chandigarh branch in Sector 17 opened in May 1964.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/indian-coffee-house-even-in-covid-times-a-story-that-s-brewing/story-YGDZ4g4V56lyWF8MlOMnXP.html
19-05-2020||Chandigarh||Modi govt destabilising agri sector in Punjab, says Mann||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Punjab unit president and MP Bhagwant Mann on Tuesday accused the Modi government of destabilising the agriculture sector in Punjab.Mann said the decisions announced by the Union government to reboot the country’s staggering economy, which was hit hard during the Corona-induced lockdown, were a great betrayal with the poor, a curse for farmers and farm labourers, and a boon for select corporate houses.“The central government has outsmarted the Congress in divesting the states of their legitimate rights,” he told reporters here, accusing the SAD of bartering the rights of Punjab with their alliance partners. He asked the Badals why were they maintaining a silence when the established marketing system of Punjab and Haryana was being abolished under the slogan of ‘one market and one nation’, allowing private players gaining entry into Punjab’s mandis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/modi-govt-destabilising-agri-sector-in-punjab-says-mann/story-JElkJX5RW1PvVStWoK6eTL.html
19-05-2020||City||Thane records 4 Covid deaths, 84 new cases||Four Covid patients died in Thane and 84 new cases were reported on Tuesday. The total number of cases in the city is 1,353, while the death toll is 54. Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner, said, “Among the dead is a 93-year-old man from Naupada who died on May 18. He was admitted to Kaushalya Hospital on May 12 after he tested positive for Covid.”On Tuesday, the Lokmanyanagar Sawarkarnagar ward recorded the highest number of Covid positive cases at 27 followed by 12 in Kalwa and 10 in Mumbra.“The recovery rate has increased to 33% with around 101 patients discharged on Tuesday. With 414 people recovered, the active cases in the city are 891. Around 3,312 people are in home quarantine,” Malvi added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-records-4-covid-deaths-84-new-cases/story-E5R3szfXXw8d5F6yiYMzjP.html
19-05-2020||City||63-yr-old Panchkula Covid patient dies after testing negative||A 63-year-old woman, resident of Sector 10 in Panchkula, died of heart failure, about an hour after her second sample tested negative for Covid-19. The woman, who was undergoing treatment for cancer at a private hospital, had tested positive on May 15. Along with her, five of her family also tested negative.District Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajiv Narwal said the woman patient had been admitted to a private hospital in Sector 21 after testing positive, but was shifted to the Sector 6 civil hospital’s ICU ward on Monday, after taking leave against medical advice (LAMA) from there. “Her samples tested negative on Tuesday at 10.30am, and she suffered a heart failure at 11.59 am. She was suffering from esophageal cancer,” he said. Officials said the woman’s family was advised not to take LAMA citing her serious condition and that she may require to be referred to PGIMER, Chandigarh. Now, Panchkula has only one active Covid case, with no new case reported for the fourth day in a row on Tuesday.The Sector-10 woman and a 56-year-old man from Sector 21 were the last to test positive on May 15, taking the total count of positive cases in Panchkula to 25. The male patient is now in home quarantine after he tested negative the second time. Dr Narwal said that as of now, the only one infected with Covid is a 44-year-old milk vendor-cum-confectioner of Rajiv Colony near Sector 17. He had tested positive on May 8, after no new case had been reported in the district for 18 days. As per officials, he tested positive for the second time on Monday. He will again be tested after a week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/63-yr-old-panchkula-covid-patient-dies-after-testing-negative/story-AlKw81XxYk4bGV2hpqZmaI.html
19-05-2020||City||4th Shramik train departs from Ambala with over 1k migrants||The fourth Shramik Speacial train, which departed from the Ambala Cantt railway station on Tuesday, will drop off around 1,296 migrant labourers to their native places in Bihar.As per details, around 693 passengers boarded the train from Ambala, while 398 came from Yamunanagar and 205 from Panchkula in buses.Deputy commissioner Ashok Kumar Sharma said, “This is the fourth special train carrying migrants home. Earlier, we had sent migrants to Bhagalpur, Katihar and Muzaffarpur districts of Bihar in three special trains. We are following the same safety protocol as before.”Yamunanagar DC Mukul Kumar said 10 buses ferrying 398 migrants belonging to Bhagalpur, Begusarai and Lakhisarai districts of Bihar were sent to Ambala Cantt railway station to board this special train.BORDER AREAS CHECKED FOR MIGRANT MOVEMENTThe Ambala DC on Tuesday inspected the movement of migrants and security arrangements at the border as hundreds of migrants have been crossing over from Punjab in a bid to reach their native places for the past few weeks. “In the last few days, migrants in large numbers from Punjab crossed over to Ambala. To restrict this movement, the administration has tightened curbs along the border, but migrants have started entering through fields or by crossing rivers. During the inspection, only a few workers were found walking on the roads. We’ve made arrangements so that they could be sent home safely in trains and buses,” the DC said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4th-shramik-train-departs-from-ambala-with-over-1k-migrants/story-cHQY9XDgbHuCWiQLYi5L4J.html
19-05-2020||City||G Noida: 12-yr-old boy dies while trying to make a swing||A 12-year-old boy accidentally took his own life on Tuesday afternoon while playing in his house, which is under the jurisdiction of the Site 5 police. The body has been sent for an autopsy.According to the police, the child’s family reported the incident around 1.45pm.“A team rushed to the spot but by then the family had already brought down the body. Around 1.30pm, the boy had been playing in the house while the mother had gone to relieve herself and the father was out. They suspect that he stood on a storage box and threw his scarf around an iron bar jutting out of the roof to create a makeshift swing and accidentally suffocated himself,” Prabhar Dikshit, station house officer, Site 5 police station, said.When the mother came back, she raised an alarm but the boy had died by then, the police said.They don’t suspect any foul play so far. The parents are daily wage earners from Madhya Pradesh.In another incident, a 29-year-old woman allegedly took her own life on Tuesday morning in her home, which is under the jurisdiction of the Phase 3 police.“Her husband is a vegetable vendor who had left the house early in the morning while the woman was home alone with their seven-year-old son. She sent him to a neighbour’s house around 9am. Her husband found her body around 1.30 pm, after which he informed us. She must have taken her life in that time,” Amit Kumar Singh, station house officer, Phase 3 police station, said.He said that the family has denied any financial or emotional trouble and the reason behind her death is still unknown as the police have not recovered a suicide note yet. The body has been sent for an autopsy after which it will be returned to the family.Gautam Budh Nagar does not have a dedicated helpline to deal with such situations. A few major suicide prevention helpline numbers in India are +914066202000 of ‘Roshni’ (Hyderabad-based) and +914424640050 of Sneha India Foundation (Delhi-based).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/g-noida-12-yr-old-boy-dies-while-trying-to-make-a-swing/story-ibNQDiKye0su3Oafi6yxeO.html
19-05-2020||City||Haryana: Huge influx of migrants at shelter homes worries authorities||Desperate to reach their native towns, thousands of migrant workers are arriving regularly at the temporary shelter homes set up by the state government at the district headquarters.But the huge influx is giving sleepless nights to the officials responsible to make arrangements of food, shelter, registration and medical examination of the migrants. To ensure that social distancing is practiced at the relief camps, the government has now put schoolteachers on the registration duty.As per figures provided by the state government, around 1.7 lakh migrants have already boarded various buses and ‘Shramik Special’ trains to their home states at the expense of Haryana government. 75,600 migrant labourers have been sent to Uttar Pradesh; 37,866 to Bihar; 19,982 to Madhya Pradesh; 14,940 to Uttarakhand and 1,210 to Jammu and Kashmir. Still, most of the shelter homes in northern districts of Yamunanagar, Karnal, Panipat and Ambala are packed to capacity. “The number of migrant labourers has multiplied in past couple of days and we are finding it difficult to make arrangements for them as hundreds of them are reaching us daily. We have over 4,000 migrants, while 3,500 have already been sent to their home states,” said a government schoolteacher deputed at the community centre in Karnal’s Kambopura.From the industrial city of Panipat, more than 15,000 migrant laborers have been sent back to their native places and thousands are still waiting for their turn. The district administration has at least 1.25 lakh registered migrant labourers.From Yamunanagar, where two incidents of use of force on migrants have been reported since the lockdown came into effect, over 14,028 migrant labourers have already been sent back. The waiting list there is still above 12,000. They have taken shelter at nine relief camps. The local administration has over 60,000 registered migrant workers. On Tuesday, many migrant labourers from Bihar even held a protest and blocked Jagadhri-Paonta Sahib national highway, accusing the authorities of not making efforts to send them back to their homes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-huge-influx-of-migrants-at-shelter-homes-worries-authorities/story-ELsA8dIRDY5znngVpJ49rI.html
19-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi Covid count up by 500 in a day, death toll rises by six||A day after crossing 10,000 cases, Delhi reported 500 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infections on Tuesday, according to the daily health bulletin released by the Delhi government. The new cases, the highest single-day spike so far, took the city’s tally to 10,554.Delhi has mirrored the national trend of an acceleration in number of cases over the past two weeks, although the number of deaths remains low, especially when seen in the context of the number of cases. Six deaths of Covid-19 patients were reported in the capital on Tuesday, taking the toll of the viral infection in the city to 166, putting Delhi’s mortality rate (the number of deaths expressed as a percentage of cases) at around 1.6%, much lower than the national average of 3.07%.Delhi has reported an increase in the number of deaths since May 12, when the three-member death audit committee started sifting through a backlog of reported fatalities to confirm whether they had been caused by Covid-19. After a discrepancy was noticed between the number of fatalities reported by city hospitals and the number of deaths in the health bulletin, the chief secretary directed all designated Covid-19 hospitals to send in their death reports each day by 5pm to ensure timely and accurate reporting .Of the 166 deaths that have been recorded so far, at least 52% are patients who are aged 60 years or older. Almost 85% of those who died had some co-morbidity such as diabetes, hypertension, heart or kidney disease.With 500 cases a day, Delhi is now living out the second scenario taken into account by a five-member committee of doctors formed in March for advising the chief minister on Covid-19.The committee suggested measures such as making space for Covid-19 patients in government and private hospitals and taking over hotels and shelter homes to isolate people who test positive; it also suggested how many ventilators the city would need when the tally reaches 100 cases a day, 500 cases a day and 1,000 cases a day.“Delhi is reasonably well prepared for around 1,000 cases a day for about 15 days at a stretch. Even if we assume, that for every 500 cases, 10 - 12 will need ventilators we have enough in the city and the actual numbers are lower,” said Dr SK Sarin, head of the five-member committee.Of the 5,638 people still living with the infection in Delhi, 1,779 with severe symptoms are admitted to designated Covid-19 hospitals. Of these, 158 people are in intensive care units with 16 on ventilators. Currently, Delhi has 306 ventilators in the government sector and another 800 in the private sector. The Delhi government is planning to buy another 500 ventilators.“This (lower number of people on ventilators) shows that the severity of the infection is less. There could be two possible reasons -- the age of people infected and the strain of the virus. If mostly young people in Delhi have been infected, the disease is likely to be less severe. Also, the strain of the virus could be such that it does not cause severe infection. If we talk of Maharashtra and Gujarat where the severity of infection seems to be higher, they might have the same strain of the virus circulating and they are geographically closer too. However, we still do not have the demographic data or enough sequencing data to pinpoint the cause,” said Dr Shobha Broor, former head of the department of microbiology at AIIMS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-covid-count-up-by-500-in-a-day-death-toll-rises-by-six/story-YRisM5Gf3YcjCxZiAR7hUO.html
19-05-2020||City||Three arrested for illegally selling liquor in Thane||Three people were arrested for allegedly selling foreign liquor in the market without permission. The police seized 57 bottle of liquor worth ₹11,690.The manager of the liquor shop, Sudip Singh, 32, and his workers Robinson D’souza, 23, and Avinash Singh, 23, were arrested from Kasarwadavli.They had taken a shop on rent and were selling liquor in the shop, which is not permitted.Only home delivery is permitted in areas which are not in containment zones. According to the police, the liquor shop has displayed their phone numbers outside shops. But, instead of delivering them home, the accused were selling from a shop, near the liquor shop.A senior police inspector from Kasarwadavli police station, Kishor Khairnar, said, “Our officers had kept a watch on their activities. On Tuesday, we caught them red-handed while they were selling liquor inside the shop. We seized 57 bottles of foreign liquor. We have registered a case against them under Section 188 on Indian Penal Code.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-arrested-for-illegally-selling-liquor-in-thane/story-K6AveaJjXgPSd1T41nZOKP.html
19-05-2020||City||Man’s body found in Hindon Canal; cops suspect murder||Bisrakh Police have registered a case of murder ten days after the body of an unidentified man was found in the Hindon canal by a passerby.The incident had first come to light on May 9, when the body was spotted floating in the canal. A police team had retrieved the unidentified body and sent it for autopsy.No identify card was found with the man suspected to be around 40 years of age. Police officials believe that the body had come floating from some other place. As such, the district, state and national crime records bureaus have been informed in case of any missing person reports.Police officials privy to the case said, according to the procedure, when dealing with an unidentified body, the cremation was carried out 72 hours after the body was found while the autopsy report had come on May 12.“The cause of death was due to drowning. However, there were some injury marks on the head of the man. A consultation was carried out with the doctors, the reports for which came yesterday. Prima facie, it seems that the man may have been murdered and then thrown in the canal. The autopsy also revealed that the body was already decomposing when it was found, suggesting that it had been in the water for at least three to four day before being discovered,” said a police official.Taking suo motu cognisance of the matter, a case of murder (section 302) has been registered at the Bisrakh police station. “We have filed a murder case while efforts are on to identify the man. Due legal action is being taken,” said Harish Chandra, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Zone-2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-s-body-found-in-hindon-canal-cops-suspect-murder/story-gu5LCFeSb8HcoIhgZWGlEP.html
19-05-2020||Delhi||Markets warm up to business, few opened on Day 1||Markets reopened in Delhi on Tuesday, more than 50 days after a lockdown imposed in March-end to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Though the lockdown continues till May 31, the Delhi government announced a raft of relaxations on Monday on the back of Union government’s guidelines, marking the second phase of a gradual exit from the restrictions.As per the rules laid out by the AAP government, markets in Delhi will be opened on the odd-even foumula -- even-numbered shops open on even numbered days and odd-numbered shops on odd dates, much like the odd-even road rationing scheme. However, most of the markets remained deserted on Tuesday with only 30%-35% of the odd-numbered shops supposed to open having their shutters up. Brajesh Goyal, national convener, Chamber of Trade and Industry (CTI), said, “Only around 30%-35% of the odd-numbered shops opened today. It was the first day and even owners were busy cleaning and disinfecting their shops. Also, customers are not too confident about coming out. Trade will, however, pick up in a few days.”Many shopkeepers were also seen painting circles before their shops to ensure social distancing by prospective customers. Some of them were also marking numbers on their shops since they will now have to follow the odd-even formula. In some markets, there was confusion regarding shop numbers, since two-three establishments exist on one property. While Chandni Chowk main road market had decided to remain shut till May 31, other Old Delhi markets such as Chawri Bazar, shops in bylanes (katras) such as Khari Baoli and cloth market opened on Tuesday. Traders had a meeting with the local SHO to discuss how to mark the shops with the same numbers and exercise social distancing, as the units are too small and are located in narrow alleys. At Lajpat Nagar central market, where at least 40% of the odd-numbered shops had opened, the tehbazari stalls did slightly better than the showrooms with a few customers pouring in.Sanjay Tripathi, who runs one such stall of women’s clothing, said, “We were just setting up the display when the first customer dropped in at around 12.30 pm. People are just buying one or two utility items and nothing more. But at least we are open now and the sales may pick up later,” said Tripathi.With Eid-ul Fitr to be celebrated on May 25, shopkeepers hoped to get more customers in the coming week. Suresh Mehta, the owner of an apparel store in Lajpat Nagar, said they were just cleaning up and shut shop after that, as they did not expect any sales on day one. “Maybe in the coming days with Eid and weddings planned around this time, there could be some sale. But it will take months to return to normal,” said Mehta.Ashwani Marwah, general secretary, traders association Lajpat Nagar, said, “Most of the shops at the market opened only post-lunch for cleaning and setting up things in order and closed by 6pm. Many customers did not know if the markets had opened or not. It will take at least a week for the footfall to increase in the market.”At most markets, only a few shops had thermal guns for screening while the others just depended on hand sanitisers and spray to let customers in.Abha Gupta, who had stepped out to buy clothes and other essentials for her newborn, had to wait outside a shop in Lajpat Nagar, as not more than 2-3 customers were being allowed inside the shops. “We would have avoided coming out at all, but we needed some stuff for our two-month-old. With even e-commerce sites being closed, we had to come out. Nobody is stepping out unless there is an urgent requirement,” said Gupta.Till 3 pm, Rakesh Gupta, a sports store owner at Sarojini Nagar had not had a single customer. “We have been sitting idle. Most of the odd-numbered shops have not opened. The customers were anyways fewer because of the government quarters being demolished for redevelopment and then there is little transport available,” he said. Ashok Randhawa, president of the Sarojini Nagar mini-market association, said that shops in the main market were open while some of those in the mini market and Babu market were asked to shut down by the police and district authorities. “We have decided to remain shut till May 31 now. We had a meeting with the police and officials of the district administration. They said that since the shops are too small and the area is congested, there should not be any encroachment, else the shops will be sealed. We will again have a meeting with them to discuss the measures,” said Randhawa.Traders also said that the government should no longer call this phase as lockdown, as it creates a doubt in the mind of the customers and prevents them from stepping out. Besides, shopowners in Connaught Place said that even as they maintain social distancing and sanitisation norms inside the shops, the police and local authorities must ensure the same in the corridors where a lot of hawkers set up kiosks and are expected to return soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/markets-warm-up-to-business-few-opened-on-day-1/story-ohEZdSUSYTW0yqwN6fpU4N.html
19-05-2020||City||Two Vivo site workers discharged after false positive report by pvt Ggm lab||Noida: Two third-party workers at the Vivo Industrial Park in Greater Noida were discharged from hospital on Tuesday after they were found false positive for Covid-19. The two had been admitted to the Sharda Hospital since May 16, after a private lab in Gurugram confirmed them positive for the coronavirus disease.The two tested negative after the Gautam Budh Nagar health department tested them later. “I was admitted to the isolation ward, and treatment had started as well. I had no symptoms when I was admitted. My wife, mother and two children were also put under institutional quarantine at the Galgotias hostel in Greater Noida. All of us were under extreme stress after I was found positive. On Tuesday, I was informed that I am negative and was discharged from the hospital. My family was allowed to go back home as well,” said Mahesh, who works as a security supervisor at the Vivo site.“Around 18 of us at the construction site were tested for Covid-19 by our employers. Two of us turned out to be positive as per the reports of a private lab in Gurugram. For over three days, I was in the isolation ward with other positive patients. I hope I didn’t contract any infection from the isolation ward. I will keep myself under home quarantine for 14 days to ensure the safety of my family,” the Dankaur resident said.The district administration is sending a show cause notice to the lab that tested the two. Gautam Budh Nagar officials said the lab isn’t accredited with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).“We are going to serve a show cause notice to the Gurugram lab. These people have been discharged after they turned out to be negative. Appropriate action will be initiated against the lab,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate, Gautam Budh Nagar.The district also reported three new cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, taking Gautam Budh Nagar’s tally to 289. The patients include a 24-year-old woman and her 33-year-old husband, who works with Zee Media. So far, around 31 persons from the Zee Media office in Sector 16A have tested positive for the disease.A 33-year-old man from Sector 8 also tested positive on Tuesday. At least 55 people have tested Covid-19 positive from the slums of sectors 8, 9, and 10 so far. Currently, over 100 persons from the JJ Colony cluster are under institutional quarantine. A nine-month-old baby was also admitted at the Super Speciality Paediatric Hospital & Post Graduate Teaching Institute in Sector 30, after a private lab test showed the child positive for Covid-19. The health department is waiting for fresh reports before adding the child to the list of Covid-19 patients.Containment zone area revisedThe state government has issued new guidelines for containment zones in the district, reducing the total area of each such zone. As per the new orders, in an urban space, an area of 250 metres, including the respective society, will be sealed if a positive case is reported. An area of 500 metres and a buffer area of 250 metres will be sealed for the containment work from areas where more than one case is reported.In rural areas, the respective area of the village where the case has been reported will be sealed. If more than one case is reported, the entire village and nearby localities will be contained.The health department is in the process of preparing the final list of the containment zones in the district as per the new guidelines. “As per the new guidelines related to the containment zones will bring a lot of areas out of the containment zone category as the area which is sealed has been reduced,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate, GB Nagar.Currently, there are 35 containment zones in the district. Officials said they expect the number of such zones to increase, but the overall area covered to be lower, following the new guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-vivo-site-workers-discharged-after-false-positive-report-by-pvt-ggm-lab/story-dE0CXT0mUn0bbofl6NkXYJ.html
19-05-2020||Delhi||‘Don’t use saliva for fixing stamps,’Delhi court tells staff||A Delhi court asked lawyers, court staff and litigants to not use their saliva for affixing court fee stamps on applications, petitions, and envelopes containing notices and summons in order to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). In a circular issued on Monday by the district and sessions judge of Tis Hazari court, Girish Kathpalia, all court officials have been asked not to use saliva while paginating files. “Officials are directed to not use saliva while doing the pagination of files etc,” the circular read.The circular further advised the official to use plastic sponge damper pads while going through the judicial files.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/don-t-use-saliva-for-fixing-stamps-delhi-court-tells-staff/story-0Xm6r4JxYlPkH7oRb5cyDJ.html
19-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admin goes all out to ensure social distancing in their offices||From reducing the number of appointments to starting online appointments, to marking circles on the floor for social distancing, public dealing departments of the UT administration departments are adopting several strategies to ensuring safety of those who visit their offices.The Registration and Licensing Authority (RLA), the busiest UT offices in terms of number of daily visitors, is reducing the number of daily appointments issued. “On an average around 800 appointments are given online per day to those visiting the office for completing procedures associated with driving licences, transfer of registration certificates, etc,” said a senior UT official, who didn’t wish to be named.As of now, only 300 appointments will be given per day. “These appointments will be staggered to minimize the number of people in the office at any given time to ensure safety,” said the official.For enquiries, kiosks will be setup outside the office, but those visiting without an appointment will not to be allowed to enter the RLA premises.Significantly, the RLA and other public dealing offices of the Chandigarh administration have opened after nearly two months, after being shut on March 24 in the wake of the Covid epidemic.At the estate office, Sector 17, officials are planning to issue online appointments. “While some people come for their routine work at the estate office, some need to meet officials for registering a complaint or grievance resolution. We are planning to issue only 20 appointments per hour, which gives around 3 minutes for a person to meet the official concerned. We are preparing an online module for it,” the official said.For those coming for routine work, the floor has been marked to ensure social distancing. “We are also planning to make other facilities online, including the token system for file work, etc,” the official said.For services at the Sampark centres, only four to five persons will be allowed to enter at a time.To prevent close contact among those coming to the sub-registrar’s office, registration of only 30 deeds per day has been fixed on all working days. The timings of registration work too has been fixed from 11am to 1pm and from 1.30 pm to 4.30 pm. Timings for supply of copy of deeds, inspection of documents and certified copy has been fixed from 10.30 am to 11am on all working days. However, no appointment is required for registration of will from 11am to 1pm on all working days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-admin-goes-all-out-to-ensure-social-distancing-in-their-offices/story-02wLorWTb1skFllssacDBL.html
19-05-2020||City||Lockdown 4.0 guidelines for Gzb to be issued today||Ghaziabad: District administration officials said on Tuesday that they will roll out the finer points and guidelines of the Lockdown 4.0 on Wednesday after holding meetings with different stakeholders in order to avoid any confusion while opening up the local economy. The Uttar Pradesh chief secretary on late Monday night had issued directions about the fourth phase of lockdown, but officials in Ghaziabad said that the prevailing protocols will continue till new directions are issued.“We will be holding meetings with different stakeholders on Wednesday and the directions for implementing the Lockdown 4.0 guidelines are likely to be issued by Wednesday evening. The movement restriction on the border with Delhi will be still in place till new directions are issued,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate.The Union ministry of home affairs on May 17 had issued guidelines for Lockdown 4.0, which will continue till May 31. The Centre has allowed the states to decide areas that should be earmarked as green, orange or red zones.The state governments were also authorised to decide the restrictions that should be placed in these areas, but not allowed to relax activities in containment zones where only essential services are allowed.On May 1, the Ghaziabad district moved from red zone to orange zone.As per the guidelines issued by UP chief secretary, the activities, which are not otherwise specifically prohibited, are allowed.Besides, public and private offices can operate with safety norms, and all kinds of shops can open and shopkeepers will have to arrange for sanitizers for customers and themselves have to wear masks and gloves. Also, markets can open in a staggered manner, but not all markets in the city can open on a given day and private four-wheelers are allowed with not more than two persons other than the driver, among other conditions.Among certain restrictions, the night-time curfew between 7pm and 7am is still applicable.Meanwhile, the health department officials said that the number of active Covid-19 cases in Ghaziabad now stands at 34, while the total count has moved to 191 with addition of two more positive cases on Tuesday.“Now, 155 patients have been discharged from different hospitals. Of 155, 22 got discharged on Tuesday after being cured. The two positive cases which emerged on Tuesday are from Arthala and Morta localities. We are waiting for cross notification of two positive cases, one each from Crossings Republik and Kaushambi. Both of the patients are now admitted in Delhi,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer.“There were reports of death of a Covid-19 patient, but we have not received any such information. The report is incorrect,” he added.The authorities of a private hospital in Nehru Nagar said that there were rumours of death of a Covid-19 patient.“The Covid-19 positive patient is native of Agra and very much alive. He is under treatment at a hospital in Delhi,” one of the officers of the hospital said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-4-0-guidelines-for-gzb-to-be-issued-today/story-obTsSuYOb6v17VYI2D9VMO.html
19-05-2020||City||Migrants left stranded as Gzb admin shifts registration facilities for special trains outside city limits||Ghaziabad: A day after thousands of migrant workers thronged the Ghanta Ghar Ramlila Ground to register themselves for Shramik special trains and flouted social distancing norms, the Ghaziabad administration on Tuesday shut down the facility and shifted it to a college campus in Modinagar, which is about 30 kilometres from Ghanta Ghar.Similarly, the Kavi Nagar facility has been shifted to Morta near Delhi-Meerut Road, which is about 10 kilometres away from Kavi Nagar. Now, both the new facilities are outside city limits.The Ghanta Ghar and Kavi Nagar facilities till Monday were used for preparing documentation and medical screening of migrant workers who wanted to board trains bound for cities in Bihar and eastern Uttar Pradesh, respectively. On Tuesday, the migrants who wished to travel to UP cities were found getting their documentation done at Morta, while those trying to board trains to Bihar were required to get formalities completed at Modinagar.“The documentation work for trains to cities in UP is being done at Morta, while that for trains to Bihar is taking place at Modinagar. We are trying to send migrant workers lodged in shelter homes to their home towns on a priority basis. Those having trains today are being taken to Ghaziabad railway station by UP Roadways buses. The migrants who have registered online will also be sent later on,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate.On Tuesday, six trains, three each to cities in UP and Bihar, were scheduled to leave from Ghaziabad railway station.As the administration shut the two facilities in the city areas, the police were seen picking up some migrant workers from roads and shifting them to shelter homes by buses and even trucks.The incident of some migrants boarding trucks was witnessed on NH-9 under the jurisdiction of Indirapuram police station area. The station house officer of Indirapuram was recently suspended and explanation of area’s circle officer was sought by the state officials after 16 workers had boarded a vehicle in an unauthorised manner from Indirpauram and the vehicle met accident in Auraiya in which 24 persons were killed. A set of 16 survivors who boarded the vehicle from Ghaziabad told the officials that they had boarded the vehicle in Indirapuram area.“We are keeping a strict watch on movement of migrant workers. They are not allowed to travel afoot or by unsafe transport like trucks. We will get it inquired if migrants were made to board trucks from the highway by the police on Tuesday,” said Anshu Jain, circle officer of Indirapuram.As the train documentation facilities were shifted out of city limits, many migrant workers walking on roads were left with no choice but to walk long distances in scorching heat to reach Morta and Modinagar to get formalities completed to board trains.“We started walking yesterday from Khanpur Japti village in Loni and reached Ghanta Ghar Ramlila Ground, but cops drove us away. Then we reached Kavi Nagar Ramlila Ground and found it shut. We are a group of about 20 people who are daily wagers and wish to reach Jharkhand or to any city in Bihar where trains can carry us,” said Badru, a native of Godda in Jharkhand.Like Badru, Mamta Devi also arrived at a shelter home near Delhi-Meerut Road from Ghookhna in order to get a train or bus to her home town in Vaishali district of Bihar. “My husband had gone to our home town to take care of our ailing elder daughter. I, along with my two minor daughters, were holed up in Ghaziabad for about two months due to the lockdown. On Tuesday, I finally decided to move out but there is no information about trains or buses,” she said.Pradeep Babu, who works at a factory in Noida’s Sector 8, reached Morta on Tuesday along with his wife, sister and a minor child. But the family had to return empty handed after failing to get boarding passes for any trains travelling to their home town near Hathras.“We started walking on foot and reached Lal Kuan on May 18. The police then sent us to Ghanta Ghar Ramlila Ground but no train was available. At 10.30pm, we were taken by a bus to Morta shelter home. Tuesday morning we could not find any train or bus, so we moved out and went to Lal Kuan. From there, the police again picked us up and we again arrived back to Morta,” Babu said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/migrants-left-stranded-as-gzb-admin-shifts-registration-facilities-for-special-trains-outside-city-limits/story-iecLgUyJyrR8sivuqvLIlL.html
19-05-2020||Kolkata||Offer Eid namaz at home with family, Bengal Imams’ body asks Muslims||The Bengal Imams Association (BIA) on Tuesday thanked members of the Muslim community for praying at home during the holy Ramzan month, and urged them to continue the practice in the run-up to the Eid-ul-Fitr and offer namaz with family members on the day of the festival.The Ramzan month began on April 25 and will continue till May 24. The festival of Eid-ul-Fitr is expected to be celebrated on May 25.The community had never faced such a situation during Ramzan in the past but a redeeming feature of the COVID-19 induced lockdown is that it has enabled women members of families to offer prayers at home along with men, BIA Chairman Md Yahia said.He said, “Remember that your wife, daughter, sister can offer prayers along with you. Isn’t that a welcome development?” The BIA chief also urged every Muslim to pray for a coronavirus-free world for mankind.A spokesman of the Nakhoda Masjid, one of the prominent mosques of Kolkata, also said there will not be any gathering for prayer on the day of Eid and everyone has been asked to pray from home together with family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/offer-eid-namaz-at-home-with-family-bengal-imams-body-asks-muslims/story-U3qwVn8uvxxJSfOcno6dlN.html
19-05-2020||Noida||Landlord assaults cops for helping tenant being evicted, arrested||A 40-year-old landlord allegedly assaulted a head constable and a constable on Tuesday afternoon for helping a migrant worker who he was reportedly evicting from his house in Chotpur village, police said. A case has been lodged in the matter and the suspect has been arrested.According to police officers, the Behlolpur police post’s PRV received a call by one Ravindra who said he was being forcibly evicted by his landlord in Chotpur.“After getting the call, two police personnel went to the spot. It seems that the man, who works as a daily wager, was being evicted from his house as he could not pay the rent anymore. He was sharing the accommodation with others who had already left the city a few days ago, and Ravindra was left behind alone,” a police officer said.When the police personnel tried to intervene on Ravindra’s behalf, the landlord, identified as Banwari Lal Gupta, allegedly attacked them with an iron rod. “The rod struck the head constable Brajpal’s hand. When he tried to stop Gupta, the suspect used a knife to attack him slashing his stomach. The constable, Lakshman, tried to hold the suspect but was also attacked by Gupta with the knife in his stomach. The two policemen then managed to hold off Gupta after which they informed the Phase 3 police station,” said deputy commissioner of police (zone 2) Harish Chandra. The police said the suspect was then arrested from the spot while the weapon was also seized. He was booked under sections 333 (voluntarily causes grievous hurt to any person being a public servant in the discharge of his duty), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 307 (attempt to murder), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code along with relevant sections of the national disaster management act, epidemic act, and arms act.The injured police personnel were taken to a private hospital where they are said to be stable and out of danger.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/landlord-assaults-cops-for-helping-tenant-being-evicted-arrested/story-KbtbaO4dpJn6UXLWXiAopK.html
19-05-2020||Noida||Over 150 guest houses closed in GB Nagar during lockdown||Over 150 paying guest(PG) houses in Gautam Budh Nagar have been forced to pull down their shutters amid the ongoing nationwide lockdown announced on March 24 to halt the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). According to an estimate by owners of PG accommodations, closure of these guest houses has led to a loss of ₹100 crore during the period of the lockdown—which has now been extended till May 31.Vishesh Tyagi, president of Noida paying guest houses’ association said that over two lakh people living in these accommodations have left them. “Most of the PG houses don’t have any occupants now. Our problems started right before the Holi vacations started. Students of different colleges and employees working in different companies in the district, who had gone to their home towns didn’t come back again. The remaining lot started packing their bags after the Janta curfew on March 22. Most of them didn’t inform the guest house owners and left their respective abodes quite discreetly,” he said. Tyagi further said most of the paying guest houses are running from rented private buildings. “We are at the receiving end from both sides. The government has issued the orders for not charging rent for the lockdown period, but our landowners have been continuously pressurising us to pay the rents of their buildings even when we are not generating any income right now. This has forced almost 90% of the owners have handed over the paying guest houses to the landlords,” he said.Echoing similar views, Rajeev Kumar, who runs a PG in Sector 62, said most of the students, who accounted for most of the occupants at these accommodations, are not accepting calls anymore. “We are still in dark about whether these students will return or not. And even if they return, how can we force them to live in our guest houses again? We are still paying the electricity bills, internet charges, and salaries of the security personnel. According to an assessment by some of the owners, big and small PGs in Gautam Budh Nagar have suffered a loss of over ₹100 crore during the lockdown period,” he added. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/over-150-guest-houses-closed-in-gb-nagar-during-lockdown/story-0JDa0fGfSWhsEfDxHawqrN.html
19-05-2020||City||Blame game goes on as Congress- sponsored buses for migrants yet to reach Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: As the political blame game between the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh and the Congress continued over the latter’s proposal to provide 1,000 buses to ferry migrant workers, transport department officials in Ghaziabad said no buses have arrived till late Tuesday evening.Rajiv Tyagi, spokesperson for the All India Congress Committee (AICC), said the buses were parked at Uncha Nagla border near Agra. He said the fleet includes private buses and some from Rajasthan Roadways. “The buses have still not been given clearance to enter UP. The delay is due to laxity of the BJP’s state government and they seem to be worried about Priyanka Gandhi’s (Congress’ general secretary) initiative of sending buses for helping migrant workers. She had been trying to get trains to UP for workers and then she decided to send buses,” Tyagi said.Under the proposal, 500 buses were scheduled to arrive in Ghaziabad and Noida by 5pm on Tuesday. However, the buses did not arrive till Tuesday night. Local Congress leaders who had gathered at Sahibabad depot also waited for hours for the buses to arrive but returned when not a single bus reached Sahibabad. Transport department officials waiting at Sahibabad depot and Indirapuram said they will take some time to check papers of the vehicles and declaring them fit to ply. “There is no information till Tuesday night and our officials waited at Ramlila Ground in Indirapuram and Sahibabad depot of the UP State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC). We have decided against the bus operations from Kaushambi depot as it may attract a large influx of migrant workers from across the Delhi border. A similar situation had prevailed in the last week of March when thousands of workers had arrived at Anand Vihar,” said RR Soni, regional transport officer.“Once the buses arrive, we will have to check their permits whether they are roadways buses or having All India permits. The guidelines say that there has to be an agreement between two states for plying of vehicles. We will also have to check for fitness, insurance and other documentation before the buses can be sent for operations. Sanitisation of buses can be done at local level by our agencies,” he said.Reacting to the Congress’ allegations, the BJP blamed the Congress for indulging in politics over the issue of migrant workers.“The Congress party has been insensitive towards the migrant workers. When UP government seeks list of buses they take hours and days to send it. When we receive the list, the vehicle numbers are of bike, ambulances, etc. The Congress leaders are just indulging in politics and trying to hide their inaction in the states where they have governments. Help is extended unconditionally,” said Chandra Mohan, spokesperson of the UP BJP.All through the day on Tuesday, both sides exchanged a number of letters over the buses that the Congress proposed to provide in order to send stranded migrant workers home.The Congress had on Saturday requested the state government for permission to run 1000 buses from Ghaziabad and Noida in order to carry stranded migrant workers to their home towns. The state government accepted the Congress’ proposal on Monday and informed the party the same afternoon, asking for a list of buses at the earliest.Awanish Awasthi, UP’s additional chief secretary, in a letter to Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi’s private secretary, asked the Congress to provide 500 buses to the district magistrate, Ghaziabad, at Kaushambi and Sahibabad bus stops by 12pm. In addition, provide 500 buses to the district magistrate, Gautam Buddha Nagar, at Expomart. Earlier, the state government had asked the Congress to send all the buses to Lucknow first, to which the party did not agree. The Congress had provide a list of the vehicles through an email to the state government. On Tuesday, UP government spokesman and minister for MSMEs Sidharth Nath Singh accused the Congress of providing a ‘fake’ list to the state government. Singh said preliminary inquiry into the Congress list had shown that the list carried registration numbers of three-wheelers. The Congress, however, denied the charges. “After we sent the list of the UP government, the UP officials late night and asked us to send list of fitness certificates of the buses. We question when they use buses in rallies, no fitness certificate is asked. All this shows that they do not want the buses to come to UP,” Congress spokesperson Tyagi said.Meanwhile additional chief secretary Awasthi on Tuesday said that the UP chief minister has directed for 100% utilisation of UPSRTC buses for ferrying migrant workers.“Apart from UPSRTC buses, the CM has also directed that private buses can also be acquired for ferrying migrant workers. We have no shortage of buses and trains in UP. We have about 656 trains which have come so far and permission for 258 more has been given,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/blame-game-goes-on-as-congress-sponsored-buses-for-migrants-yet-to-reach-ghaziabad/story-ui7vCEkhS2x7nsboPIp1jN.html
19-05-2020||Noida||Factories open, but migrants worker pick seeing family first over work||Eagerly waiting in the queue for his turn to take a seat a bus leaving from Noida’s Botanical Garden to Dadri railway station, Abu Hasan said he forgot the hardships he had endured in the lockdown as soon as he received a text message confirming his seat on a train leaving for Bihar. Hasan is enthralled that he will be able to celebrate Eid with his kids. A resident of Saharsa district in Bihar, Hasan worked at a garment export house in Noida with his friends Sarfaraz and Mujib, also from Saharsa, who are joining him in the trip. Despite resuming operations, the export house could not hold them back and keep them in the city where they lived in a shared rented room.“I am a tailor at an export house that has now started working and our owner had called us a few days ago to resume work, but I going home and celebrating Eid with my family rather than joining work. Lockdown had tested us, starved us, and staying indoors for so long had started to mess with my head, and I really need to see my children. My family had been calling me for days and after my registration was confirmed I just want to go home. I don’t know when will I return,” Abu Hasan said.With little money and access to food thousands of migrants stuck in the city since March 25 when the lockdown started have been longing to go home. Despite the markets reopening and factories resuming operations again, they do not want to give up on the opportunity of being with their families.Balancing a large bag on his head Sarfaraz said, “All my mother wants is for me to come back home. I also don’t want to stay in the city anymore. We have all our lives to earn, but family comes first,” as he showed a text message he received from the UP government portal confirmed his seat in a Bihar bound train.Asked how would does he plan to come back after Eid, Sarfaraz said, “If they will arrange a train like this, then I will return otherwise, I will only return whenever things get normal. I am in no hurry to return here”.Shashi Bhushan Yadav, Brijendra Yadav, and Ram Vilas Yadav, three brothers from East Champaran district in Bihar who worked at a mobile factory in Greater Noida, were among many others who were leaving the city despite factories opening again.“All we want to see now is our home. Our supervisor had called us a few days ago and asked us to return to work, but we prefer to go home. We had stayed indoors for far too long,” said Shashi Bhushan.Anju Kumari, who is also from Champaran, Bihar worked as domestic help in Noida while her husband worked at a food processing factory, had the same story to share.“No one cared for us all during the lockdown.We had to stand in long queues for meals, received no ration nor any support from the people we worked for. My family and I had to endure a lot. Now even after my husband’s factory has opened, I would rather go back home and staying with family for some time at least,” said Anju.According to the experts, while staying indoors for long does affects people emotionally often leading to frustration or restlessness, migrant workers are being affected by more than just that. Experts say that the behaviour of ‘going back to the roots’ is expected from people especially after staying indoors for a long time and being having lost social security.“We have to understand that humans are social animals and the concept of social distancing is not our natural behaviour. We are wired for needing an identity and some social security. People have been locked indoors as they lost their social security, regular food, earnings, savings. So now they are in a state of shock: they came to the cities to work, and yet they had to go through so much. At this time going back home or family, which means going back to the roots is something they need to stay emotionally well,” said Dr Nand Kumar, professor, psychiatry, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi. For the past three days, thousands of migrants from Bihar and eastern Uttar Pradesh have been coming to the Botanical Garden Metro Station from where special buses ferry them to the camps set near Dadri and Dankaur railway stations. After screening at the camps, the migrants board the special trains arranged by the district administration. According to officials, about 84,000 migrant workers from Uttar Pradesh registered on the portal—jansunwai.up.nic.in —alone to go back home.“Between 8.30 am to 11am, over 1,800 migrants had been sent to camps at Dadri and Dankaur, and this will continue till 8.30pm in the night. Total 40 buses are playing the people to the camps,” Pramod Kumar, Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) official, supervising the process said.According to the administration, total of eight Sharmik Special trains left the city on Tuesday.“We are calling each migrant worker a day before the journey to avoid the excessive crowd at stations. Today eight trains were scheduled, three for Uttar Pradesh and five for Bihar,” Rakesh Chauham, district information officer, Gautam Budh Nagar, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/factories-open-but-migrants-worker-pick-seeing-family-first-over-work/story-4zl1WlDuY2QVjQ6EGGTI3H.html
19-05-2020||Mumbai||Maharshtra Covid-19 tally at 37,136 with 2,127 new cases; 76 deaths||Maharashtra recorded 2,127 new coronavirus cases on Tuesday, taking the tally to 37,136, while the death toll due to the pandemic rose to 1,325 with 76 patients dying, 43 of them in Mumbai, officials said.This was the third consecutive day when the state reported more than 2,000 coronavirus cases.The number of deaths during the day was also the highest so far, a health department official said.Earlier in the evening, health minister Rajesh Tope had put the number of new cases at 2,100 and total number cases at 37,158, with a record 1,202 being discharged.As per the late night statement, Maharashtra COVID-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 37,136, new cases 2,127, deaths 1,325, discharged 1,202, active cases 26,164, people tested so far 2,93,998.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharshtra-covid-19-tally-at-37-136-with-2-127-new-cases-76-deaths/story-gBIg8aiDr9ZzUzG6uRPdcN.html
19-05-2020||City||Lockdown 4.0: Several societies in Ggm start allowing visitors’ entry||Gurugram: After a gap of nearly two months, several resident welfare associations (RWAs) in the city have started permitting entry of visitors to their respective societies and residential colonies. However, visitors will have to go through thermal screening, the RWAs said. The move comes after the state government eased restrictions in the Lockdown 4.0 that came into force from Monday. Ever since the nationwide lockdown was enforced to combat the Covid-19 spread by the Centre on March 25, RWAs across the city had prohibited the entry of visitors. On Tuesday, the RWA of Mapsko Casabella in Sector 82 issued a notice to residents stating that they can allow entry of visitors into the condominium.“Barring entry to the society’s clubhouse, visitors will have similar rights as any other resident. At the entrance to the society, guards will check the temperature of a visitor with the help of thermal scanner machines and subsequently allow them entry if they do not have a high temperature,” said Dharamveer Singh, president of Mapsko Casabella RWA. The RWA of Belvedere Towers in Cyber City since Monday has also permitted entry of visitors albeit on a case-to-case basis depending on the urgency. “There is a checklist before we allow entry of any relative into the society. Residents have to first inform the RWA in advance via email the reason they want their relative to visit them, and also list the duration they will visit them till. The RWA would then check whether the reason cited is genuine or not and subsequently allow them entry,” said Vinod Giri, president of Belvedere Towers RWA.In plotted colonies of DLF Phase 1 and Phase 2, the local RWA has allowed entry of visitors but for a limited time period.“Visitors are not allowed to stay overnight and can visit or stay between 7am-7pm. At all entry and exit points to the two colonies, guards have been provided with thermal scanners. In addition, guards have been directed to ask visitors the reason for their entry into the colony. If only their answers are found to be satisfactory, would they be allowed inside,” said Dhruv Bansal, spokesperson of DLF Qutub Enclave RWA. At Sare Homes, a gated society in Sector 92, the RWA has now reserved a separate area just outside the society where residents can meet their relatives for a few hours. “We have an office space located just outside the boundary wall of the society which had been lying idle ever since the lockdown was enforced. We have now allowed residents to meet their relatives there. It is a covered space with cabins and a hall which will be disinfected after visitors leave the area. Prior to allowing a visitor, we will check all safety measures such as recording their temperature, ensuring their hands are sanitised and that they are wearing mask,” said Praveen Malik, president of Sare Homes RWA.The district administration said that the RWAs can allow visitors’ entry if they want. VS Kundu, additional chief secretary and nodal officer for Covid-19 preparations in Gurugram, said, “Visitors are allowed, but it’s up to the society to make a standard operating procedure (SOP) for thermal scanning or allowing people who are asymptomatic. From the government’s side, there is no bar on personal visits. However, large social gatherings and events cannot be organised.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-4-0-several-societies-in-ggm-start-allowing-visitors-entry/story-QPveAu9OZFtT8Ka3BI1XxO.html
19-05-2020||City||First train to north-east from Haryana to leave this week||Gurugram: The Haryana government is arranging the first shramik special train to ferry migrants to Guwahati in Assam later this week. The train is scheduled to leave Gurugram railway station between May 22 and May 24, according to officials aware of the matter.Dalbir Duggal, nodal officer for the repatriation of migrants to the north-east, said, “The date of the train is still tentative. We urge those seeking to travel on this train to register on Haryana’s online portal for migrants. We will arrange special buses to bring migrants from other districts to Gurugram, where they will be screened for symptoms of Covid-19 before being allowed to board the train.” Punung Kipa, an Assamese migrant who has been stuck in Gurugram since the lockdown began in late March, said many like him were hoping to catch the train to Guwahati this week. “There are hundreds of us from the north-east who have been waiting for a way back. We initially tried to walk to Delhi, but the border has been shut so we are stuck here. We want to go back home,” Kipa said.Multiple migrants from northeastern states other than Assam also said they will be attempting to make the journey via the special train later this week. Guyjom Ingo, from Arunachal Pradesh, said, “We will go to Guwahati and then see what arrangements are being made for further travel. It will do even if we are able to get a train to West Bengal. We just want to get close to home.”Between May 21 and May 26, 38 special trains are expected to leave Haryana for Assam, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal and Bihar. According to information shared by the Directorate of Information and Public Relations, over 188,000 migrants have been transported to their home states via special trains and buses, as of May 19 morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/first-train-to-north-east-from-haryana-to-leave-this-week/story-ac3C7fwnVENeicyORyx9hO.html
19-05-2020||Gurugram||Containment zone perimeter reduced to one kilometre||The district health department, along with the district administration, has decided to reduce the perimeter of containment zones to 1 kilometre from 3 kilometres. A containment one includes lanes where cases have been reported. Gurugram district currently has 37 containment zones.Dr MP Singh, the nodal officer for containment zones, said, “Marking a 3km radius from the epicentre of the infection as a containment zone and a 7km radius as the buffer zone in different areas would cover half the city as the number of containment zones are increasing, following the surge in cases. Therefore, we have decided that the perimeter of the containment zone will be reduced to 1km for proper surveillance and to keep a check on people’s movement.”The administration can define the boundary of a containment zone, as per the guidelines issued by the union ministry of home affairs while imposing lockdown norms. Also, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Monday said that except containment zones, the remaining areas will be classified as orange zones where activities will resume. “The boundary of the containment zone in a residential area could be a mohalla or any lane in a congested area where a case has been reported. It makes contact tracing, testing people with Influenza Like Illness (ILI) and Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) easier. Even house-to-house surveillance becomes specific,” Singh said.In containment zones within red and orange zones, maximum precautions are required including strict perimeter control, to ensure that there is no movement of population in or out of these zones except for medical emergencies or supply of essential goods and services. However, as reported by HT earlier this week, there has been a lack of vigilance in the containment zones. As per the health department guidelines, until now, a containment zone covered a radius of 3km and the adjoining buffer zone covered a radius of 7m from the epicentre of the case(s). However, health officials now say that defining the perimeter of a containment zone will depend on the risk assessment of the area. It can be revised.NEW COVID-19 CASESThe district health department on Tuesday confirmed nine Covid-19 cases have been reported from the city. Three persons from Sector 10A, two from Ravi Nagar and one each from Daulatabad, Sirhaul, Palam Vihar and Shivaji Park. The number of infected persons has reached 220, of which 118 have been discharged while 102 are admitted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/containment-zone-perimeter-reduced-to-one-kilometre/story-OOHApTbt5bIE0RU5mqhpOO.html
19-05-2020||City||MD/MS COURSES: Punjab govt brings uniformity in fee structure of pvt colleges||The Punjab department of medical education and research has notified a modified policy providing for a uniform fee structure for postgraduate medical courses in four private medical institutes in the state from the current academic session. The decision comes over a week after the department informed all medical and dental colleges in the state about the amendment to the Punjab Private Health Sciences Institution (Regulation of Admission, Fixation of Fee and Making Reservation) Act, 2006, which empowers it to fix the fee structure for all medical and dental colleges.As per the modified notification, fee for MD/MS clinical courses in the Dayanand Medical College (DMC), Christian Medical College (CMC), both in Ludhiana, Sri Guru Ram Das University of Health Sciences (SGRDUHS), Amritsar, and Adesh University, Bathinda has now been fixed at Rs 6.5 lakh per annum.The fee for the three-year MD/MS basic science courses has now been fixed at Rs 2.6 lakh per annum.The amendment will impact the Adesh University which will have to bring down the fee for clinical MD/MS courses from the existing Rs 14.9 lakh per annum to Rs 6.5 lakh per annum now.The fee for the three-year MD/MS basic science courses in the university will come down from the existing Rs 5 lakh to Rs 2.6 lakh per annum now. Notably, DMC, CMC and and SGRDUHS are already abiding by this fee structure.Medical education and research minister OP Soni said, “The policy has been modified to reduce the financial burden on the students.”DK Tiwari, principal secretary, medical education, said that as per the amended Act, the state government will regulate admissions, fix fee and make reservation for different categories at private health sciences educational institutions, including all medical, dental, ayurvedic and homoeopathic colleges in the state.Meanwhile, Jagdev Singh, registrar, Adesh University, said they have not received the copy of the fresh notification on fee structure so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/md-ms-courses-punjab-govt-brings-uniformity-in-fee-structure-of-pvt-colleges/story-Uzm1GqG2oLn5b6u20khTRN.html
19-05-2020||Gurugram||Haryana Roadways seeks to restart 12 interstate routes, five of them from Gurugram||The Haryana government has written to the transport departments of at least six states and two union territories, seeking their consent to start interstate bus services on 12 select routes. Five of these routes will begin in Gurugram while one will begin in Faridabad, according to official communications seen by Hindustan Times. From Gurugram, routes to Aligarh and Mathura in Uttar Pradesh, Gwalior in Madhya Pradesh, Jaipur in Rajasthan and Chandigarh, are set to become operational as soon as a go-ahead is received from the recipient states. Similarly, one route from Faridabad to Aligarh is also slated to resume. Anu Sheokhand, Haryana Roadways’ general manager in Gurugram, said, “Gurugram is one of Haryana’s busiest transit hubs; its passenger volume is almost the same as Sonepat, which is the busiest hub in the state. I cannot comment on why certain routes have been chosen, but Gurugram is a strategic location as far as interstate travel is concerned, given its proximity to arterial highways and state borders.”However, a senior official of the Haryana Roadways, based in Gurugram, said, “As per the MHA order, the mutual consent of states is required for interstate travel. We want to start buses from Gurugram to MP, UP and Rajasthan as we receive a lot of migrants from these areas. The availability of commercial buses will help them to either leave the state or come back to work, with industries being allowed to start operations again.”The official, seeking anonymity, stated that these commercial buses would accept only online bookings, to ensure social distancing between conductors and passengers. “The frequency of the buses will also be low. Just one or two buses per day, with early departure. Passengers will be thermal screened multiple times on the journey, particularly at state borders,” the official said, adding that all passengers would need to secure e-passes for interstate travel to avail the bus service. This move, to resume bus travel to various states, comes on the heels of chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s announcement on Monday that interstate bus travel to and from Haryana will resume soon. A letter to this effect was written by the principal secretary (transport), Haryana, to the governments of Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan, UP, MP, Uttarakhand, Delhi and Chandigarh on Monday.The other routes which have been slated for resumption include Delhi-Panchkula, Ambala-Shimla, Ambala-Dehradun, Hisar-Ajmer, Panipat-Bareilly, and Karnal-Amritsar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/haryana-roadways-seeks-to-restart-12-interstate-routes-five-of-them-from-gurugram/story-g3RNZxtQApSQpfTvPPbOfK.html
19-05-2020||Lucknow||UP: Cop suspended for making migrants roll on road||A police constable was suspended after a video showing him and a homeguard beating two migrant labourers and forcing them to roll on a road near a railway crossing in Hapur district went viral on Tuesday, police said. Taking cognizance of the incident, superintendent of police (SP) Sanjeev Suman suspended constable Ashok of Hapur Kotwali and recommendation for action against homeguard Sharafat, said Surendra Singh, PRO to Hapur SP. The incident took place on Tuesday morning in Kotwali area when constable Ashok and homeguard Sharafat spotted two migrant workers walking on the side of railway track to reach their hometown. They brought them to the railway crossing barrier and forced them to roll back and forth on hot concrete road for multiple times and in between also hit them with their wooden staff. They were humiliated in full public view as the railway crossing was closed at the time of the incident and people on both sides of the barrier watched it. Hapur is on busy Delhi-Lucknow train route and trains frequently pass through the route.One train also passed while the hapless migrants were rolling alongside the track.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-cop-suspended-for-making-migrants-roll-on-road/story-EiiXMaBGnqN6GKMSm9BTtN.html
19-05-2020||City||Migrant kills 21-year-old woman, then attempts suicide in Jalandhar||The police have booked a brick kiln worker for allegedly murdering a 21-year-old woman in Mehatpur town here on Monday night.The accused, Shahyad (30) of Muzaffarpur district in Uttar Pradesh, killed Ruksal with a sharp-edged weapon and later attempted suicide, police said.Preliminary investigation has revealed that the accused was in an illicit relationship with Ruksal and attacked her to death following a dispute with her.The deceased woman’s father, Sagira, stated in his complaint that Ruksal had gone to fetch water from a nearby tap when the accused followed her and attacked her with a sharp-edged weapon in an attempt to rape her. Shahyad pierced her stomach in the attack, he added.The woman succumbed to her injuries at the Jalandhar civil hospital, police said.Station house officer (SHO) Lakhvir Singh said the accused murdered the woman and later attempted suicide. “He is undergoing treatment at a hospital in Amritsar and is stated to be critical,” Singh added.The SHO said a case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused and all facts will be known after recording Shahyad’s statement. Singh said the accused is married and has four children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/migrant-kills-21-year-old-woman-then-attempts-suicide-in-jalandhar/story-0Hm6LzACgbRSr7T3Z5IGvN.html
19-05-2020||Delhi||Two cops impart lessons to five children in Greater Kailash||Five children aged between three and nine years in south Delhi’s Greater Kailash, who, during the initial days of the lockdown, didn’t even have access to food, are now able to count, recite rhymes and draw pictures, thanks to two police personnel who took it upon themselves to impart lessons to them every evening for six weeks. Overcoming their initial reluctance to the initiative, the parents of the children also attended a few classes and have gained competence in counting numbers, said Atul Kumar Thakur, the deputy commissioner of police (south). A desperate situation brought the children and their parents in contact with the police. “On April 10, we received a call from a family that did not have food to eat. When head constable Tara Chand and constable Neelam Toppo visited them with food, they found two families, with five children in all, facing difficulties,” Thakur said. One of the couples, with two sons aged six and five years, used to work as labourers, while the other family, with three daughters aged between three and nine years, were dependent on a sole breadwinner, who worked as a gardener. “While eating the food we had brought, one of the girls kept asking when schools would reopen. They seemed like they were missing school, so I asked if they wanted to study during the lockdown,” said constable Toppo. While the gardener’s two daughters had been attending school prior to the lockdown, his three-year-old girl was yet to be enrolled. The labourers’ two sons, meanwhile, had never been enrolled in schools. The two police personnel decided to hold hour-long classes for them every day. “I have a seven-year-old son and a daughter, who is a toddler. I knew exactly what these children needed to be taught,” said Toppo. Toppo and Chand used an open space near their huts, set up on the premises of an old building, for the classes. “The nine-year-old girl needed a separate curriculum since she was already attending school. The others were put together and taught basic subjects,” said head constable Chand. One of the children, Gudiya, said that she learnt alphabets, rhymes, tables, names of body parts and numbers in the last six weeks. “I can recite Ba Ba Black Sheep and Twinkle Twinkle little star, but I like colourit and sketching the most,” said Gudiya.When the senior police officers at the police station and the district got to know of the initiative, they arranged the necessary stationery items for the classes. “When we interacted with their parents, we got to know that one of them didn’t even know how to count. Even to use their phones, they would seek others’ help. We convinced them to attend the classes on numbers,” said Chand. The two officials said they are hopeful that the parents would benefit from having learnt to count. “Last Thursday, I got to know that the two boys and their parents left in a truck for their home in Jhansi. I hope our classes have made them better equipped to deal with this difficult time,” said Chand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/two-cops-impart-lessons-to-five-children-in-greater-kailash/story-C64ueRpzQQyXQufH7a10pL.html
19-05-2020||City||Four held for shooting mobile shop owner dead in Ludhiana||Police claim to have cracked the May 13 murder of Girish Manocha, 29, a mobile shop owner, with the arrest of four men, including his uncle, Rajinder Manocha. The police have also recovered a motorcycle and the weapons used in the crime.While police have not revealed details of the other three persons arrested, investigators said Rajinder had hired contract killers for Rs 50,000 to murder Girish and his father Joginderpal Manocha, 60.“Four men have been arrested. Several things remain to be verified. Further details will be disclosed after proper verification,” said Gurbinder Singh, assistant commissioner of police (ACP, North).Armed assailants had shot at the father-son duo at their house in Janta Colony on Rahon Road on May 13.While Girish succumbed after a bullet went through his back and pierced the heart, his father suffered two bullet injuries, one in the neck and another in the shoulder. He remains admitted at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, but is stated to be stable.Monetary dispute between the families seemed to have led to the crime, said a police official, privy to the investigation. There was a dispute of Rs 36 lakh between the two brothers. Joginderpal had already given a house in Chhawni Mohalla and a car to his brother Rajinder to settle the matter, the official added.A case under Sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act was registered following the attack at the Basti Jodhewal police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-held-for-shooting-mobile-shop-owner-dead-in-ludhiana/story-IHzlQ3So6RGiZSMSjhyyxL.html
19-05-2020||Delhi||Man impersonating cop addresses senior incorrectly, gets caught||‘Janab’, ‘Saheb’ or ‘Sahib’—Delhi Police personnel commonly address their superiors thus. But when a 42-year-old man, who claimed to be a constable in the police force, instead addressed an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) as ‘Babuji’ while asking him to remove the barricades in his vehicle’s way, the officer was immediately suspicious.The man turned out to be an impersonator when the officer checked his ID card and found that even after apparently serving for almost 29 years, the cardholder was still a constable. Also, the man did not appear to be old enough to be a veteran on the force. As the officer and three other policemen questioned him—what was his belt number? the reason his promotion was delayed? could he recite some policing codes?—the man surrendered and confessed to impersonating a constable, a senior police officer said.“We arrested the man, one Virender Kumar from Haryana’s Rohtak, and booked him for impersonation, cheating and fraud. We seized the fake police ID card too,” deputy commissioner of police (Rohini) Pramod Kumar Mishra said.DCP Mishra said that Kumar was caught at Nizampur-Bamnoli border police post in outer Delhi’s Kanjhawala around 2am on Friday, when the Santro car he was travelling in with another man was stopped for checking.As the four police personnel stopped the car, the man on the front passenger’s seat identified himself as Constable Virender Kumar and directed them to remove the barricades, saying he was chasing a vehicle some criminals were fleeing in. He showed them his police ID card and constantly addressed the ASI as “Babuji”.“The policemen became suspicious as ‘Babuji’ wasn’t the word they used to address senior officers. They checked his ID card and found that the personnel identification system (PIS) number mentioned on it actually belonged to an assistant sub-inspector posted in the police control room unit,” a police officer privy to the incident said.They arrested the impersonator and, during the interrogation, he revealed that he had been using the fake police ID card for the past six-seven months to get smooth passage at border checkpoints. “We are trying to find out if he used the fake ID card for any illegal activities,” the officer said.The police said the man driving the Santro car told them that Kumar wanted to go on a long drive during the lockdown. Kumar had asked him to drive him to Delhi in his car, saying his police ID card would help him cross the border without being stopped.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/man-impersonating-cop-addresses-senior-incorrectly-gets-caught/story-g5goBqUygqPw87yMJN9ewO.html
19-05-2020||Delhi||Three held for burglary of mobile phone showroom||Three persons were arrested for allegedly stealing 84 mobile phones from a showroom in central Delhi. The trio was arrested by the police, who were tipped off about a deal set up by one of the suspects to sell a cache of the mobile phones, on May 16, the same day the burglary had taken place.The arrested men were identified as Sumit Kumar, 29, Rajesh Kumar, 37, and Rameshwar Singh, 30. The three men have previous involvements in thefts and snatchings, the police said. The police said that 63 stolen mobile phones and 40 chargers were recovered from their possession.The deputy commissioner of police (central), Sanjay Bhatia, said that on Saturday, their team from DBG Road police station received information that one Rajesh Kumar, who works with a gang of robbers and burglars, would be visiting Labour Chowk to sell a cache of the recently stolen mobile phones.“Acting on this information, a trap was laid at the location. Around 10.20pm, when a man, carrying a handbag, was spotted, our officers swung into action and managed to overpower the suspect. His identity was established and was confirmed to be our suspect. Forty-five mobile phones and 40 chargers were found in the bag. He couldn’t produce any document to prove the ownership of the recovered items,” Bhatia said.The DCP said that during questioning, Kumar disclosed that he had purchased the stolen mobile phones from a burglar, identified as Sumit, and had planned to sell them for a higher price. We also verified and found that these mobile phones were stolen from Paharganj area, the officer said. Bhatia said that further probe led them to the other two gang members, Sumit and Rameshwar Singh, who were arrested from near Bapa Nagar. Both of them confessed to having stolen the phones, according to the police.“During further investigation, raids were conducted by our teams and 18 more stolen mobile phones were recovered. All three were arrested,” Bhatia said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/three-held-for-burglary-of-mobile-phone-showroom/story-4HVgWXVOHIkxbGvHUS96xH.html
19-05-2020||Delhi||HC asks for police response on Shahrukh Pathan’s bail plea||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday sought the response of the city police on a plea by Shahrukh Pathan, one of the persons accused in the north-east Delhi riots case who had brandished a gun at a police constable, after he moved the court seeking bail.Justice Prateek Jalan directed the Investigating Officer (IO) to file a status report on the plea by Pathan, wherein he sought interim bail from the court to look after his ailing father in Uttar Pradesh. Twenty-three-year-old Pathan was arrested on March 3 from UP’s Shamli district.The court also asked the IO to verify all the medical reports of the Pathan’s father after his counsel, Asghar Khan, contended that he needed to be with his father as he would be undergoing knee surgery. Pathan had moved the High Court challenging a decision of the trial court, which denied him bail on May 9.The trial court, while dismissing the plea, had stated that the fundamental right to protest against the government policies could not extend to disturbing public order. The court had also noted that in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, no surgeries, except essential surgeries, are being conducted.The city police had registered a case against Pathan under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Arms Act. According to the FIR, on February 24, several people gathered illegally and raised slogans against the Anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA). The alleged members of the unlawful assembly had bottles, pistols and stones.In the meanwhile, Pathan fired 3-4 shots at the people around. The complainant, head constable Deepak Dahiya, requested him (Pathan) not to fire. However, Pathan fired at the head of the constable with the intention to kill. The constable ducked and saved himself. When he tried to stop Pathan, he again fired into the crowd, the complaint stated.The Delhi Police had filed the first charge sheet over the February rioting in north-east Delhi, naming three men including Pathan, the man who was pictured pointing a pistol at a policeman in the Maujpur neighbourhood.The 350-page charge sheet was filed in the Karkardooma court against Pathan, and two others who were arrested by the crime branch’s Narcotics Cell, a senior police officer said, adding that the three remain in jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hc-asks-for-police-response-on-shahrukh-pathan-s-bail-plea/story-qyc5rNsa5FGRJUH6T6g5lN.html
19-05-2020||City||11-month-old baby from Kalyan tests positive||An 11-month-old boy and his mother from Ambivli tested positive on Tuesday. They are among the 38 new cases recorded in Kalyan-Dombivli, taking the total case to 568. The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) said the baby’s father travels to Mumbai regularly as he works with the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation.“After the man tested positive last week, we conducted Covid test for the family. The baby and his 23- year-old mother have tested positive and are admitted to the civil hospital at Shastri Nagar,” said Dr Pratibha Panpatil, epidemic officer, KDMC.KDMC also recorded one death on Tuesday, taking the total Covid deaths to 12. A 78-year-old woman living in Azade gaon in Dombivli died on May 16. Her Covid test report came on Tuesday.“The woman had diabetes and hypertension,” said Dr Patil. The Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation also reported 10 positive cases on Tuesday, taking the total to 137.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/11-month-old-baby-from-kalyan-tests-positive/story-uqZwKD4jhTQg5IxZsXrT7I.html
19-05-2020||Delhi||Jail authorities refute prisoner’s phone smuggling allegations in viral clip||A video clip of a prisoner in Tihar jail accusing officials of smuggling cellphones has been widely circulated on social media platforms. The jail administration Tuesday refuted the allegations and said that the prisoner was being questioned after his link to a recent case of phone smuggling within the prison came to light earlier this month. Though Hindustan Times could not independently verify the authenticity of the video, jail officers identified the man in the video as that of their prisoner, currently lodged in Jail Number 1. In the four-minute-long video, the prisoner is seen with three cellphones. He accuses jail officials of being involved in smuggling phones within the prison. He requests people to share the video widely so that he is not punished or killed inside the prison. It is unclear who first uploaded the video to social media. Jail officials suspect the prisoner must have sent the video through WhatsApp to his friends so it could be circulated widely on social media. Refuting the allegations of phone smuggling, the prison’s director-general Sandeep Goel said, “He recorded this video to pressurise jail staff and to serve his vested interests. We will take action against him for this (using cellphones inside the prison).”Using a cellphone is prohibited inside a prison. All prisoners have the option of using the prison’s landline phone to talk to their relatives or friends. The officer said that the prisoner, as he claims in the video, is indeed an inmate of Jail 1. “He is a habitual criminal with cases of robbery and other offences against him. He has been in and out of jail several times. Some time ago, an alert member of the jail staff had foiled an attempt of some persons to smuggle phones into jail by throwing them over the wall. The CCTV camera footage had revealed that this prisoner was involved. We are taking action as per the jail manual against him.”Jail officers also said that the allegations against them were baseless and that during a search, they found one phone in his possession. “We are trying to recover the other phones too,” Goel said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/jail-authorities-refute-prisoner-s-phone-smuggling-allegations-in-viral-clip/story-uMsjN86nizXS08ZcROvH6K.html
19-05-2020||City||HC directs authorities to post security personnel at Nizamuddin west entry/exit||New Delhi: The Delhi High Court has directed the authorities to find replacement of CRPF personnel who were posted to man the barricades at the entrance and exits to Nizamuddin West Colony. The personnel were removed after some of them tested positive for Covid-19.Justice C Hari Shankar said if the CRPF personnel cannot be deployed for any reason, Delhi Police can be posted for manning the barricades. The Resident Welfare Association (RWA) of Nizamuddin West filed a petition, contending that in the absence of security personnel to man the entrance and exit gates, the colony had become a thoroughfare.The court on Monday sought the response of the authorities, including SDMC, on the plea that had sought installation of gates at points B1 and G8 in Nizamuddin West Colony with immediate effect while directing the SHO to continue operating the existing barricades/pickets till the time fixed gates are installed.All the counsels appearing for various respondents, including South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) and Delhi police, accepted the notice issued by the court. The matter would be now heard on June 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hc-directs-authorities-to-post-security-personnel-at-nizamuddin-west-entry-exit/story-GUEa4RCCXbYaE0bvcwvMIP.html
19-05-2020||City||Builder booked for assaulting migrant worker, he denies allegations||New Delhi: A 45-year-old woman, who worked at a building construction site in South Delhi’s South Extension part 2, was allegedly kicked by her employer while she and her husband were sleeping at the place on Tuesday, police said. The builder allegedly abused her, picked a brick with the intention of hitting her and threatened her husband, Atul Kumar Thakur, deputy commissioner of police (South) said. The builder denied the allegations.The woman called the police after which she was medically examined. A case of causing hurt and criminal intimidation was registered against the man at the Hauz Khas police station, the DCP said. “We arrested the builder,” the officer said. Deepak, the woman’s husband, said the builder was forcing them to go back home for the last few days. “He did not clear our dues of April. We thought we should leave and we booked a ticket on a Shramik train to Bihar. Today (Tuesday) police took us to a screening centre in Chhattarpur where we got to know the train will drop us at a place 400 km away from our home. We requested the police not to send us on that train. They dropped us back to the construction site by afternoon,” he said.The woman alleged a payment of Rs 9,500 was pending with the builder, police said. Deepak said when the builder got to know they were back, he threatened them. “My wife was sleeping. He kicked and abused her. He got a brick to attack her. We told him we will leave in the next few days in a a train for Punia. He did not listen,” he said.Manohar Batra, the builder, denied the allegations. Speaking on the phone from the police station, he said, “I did not assault or kick anyone. I had helped the family throughout the lockdown. I had given them Rs 15,000 on Monday and asked them to leave for their village. They promised they will leave. Today they went to the screening centre and came back to the construction site. Because of this, my other labourers refused to work, fearing their safety. The workers were scared because the family could have got infected the coronavirus there,” he said.Batra said, “The family used to pick up a fight with every other person at the site. We offered them to shift to our another site in Kotla but they refused. They are being misguided by some people in the neighbourhood,” he said.Sonali Vaid, a public health expert who had tweeted about the incident, said the family had informed her. “I got in touch with the family since they live in the neighbourhood. The builder was harassing them during the lockdown by not paying their dues. And today this happened. It’s good the police has taken prompt action,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/builder-booked-for-assaulting-migrant-worker-he-denies-allegations/story-UNps8eQtr3JE5qDqFOX2kM.html
19-05-2020||Lucknow||UP will pay for train travel of its migrant workers: Yogi to states||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has asked various state governments not to charge any money from UP migrant workers for their train travels to UP. “UP government would bring them home and will bear the cost of their train travels,” he said and asked the officers concerned to arrange trains from all the states from where UP migrants wish to return. Given the numerous road accidents involving vehicles carrying migrant workers, Yogi said, “Police and transport department must coordinate well between themselves to curb the accidents.”The chief minister said this on Tuesday at the daily lockdown review meeting with the Covid-19 containment team--the Team-11. Yogi at the meeting said so far the state government had fetched 16 lakh migrant workers back to the state. A total of 8.52 lakh migrant workers have come on 656 special trains from different states. “In next two days, 258 more special trains--the Shramik Express--will arrive with migrant workers from other states taking the total number of Shramik Express to UP to 914. And the state roadways have readied 12,000 buses for dropping the migrant workers to their home districts. Apart from these, 200 buses have been kept on standby by each district administration in the state that is 15,000 buses are on standby. So far as many as 16 lakh migrant workers have returned to UP safely.”He instructed the officials to follow proper protocol with migrant workers’ health screening, testing of those with symptoms, quarantine and home quarantine. He also asked for installation of CCTV cameras at quarantine centres and community kitchens. “Also arrange pulse oxymeters at the quarantine centres to check the level of oxygen in the blood,” he said. For jobs for migrant workers, Yogi asked the officers concerned to increase the number of MNREGS (rural employment scheme) projects. The chief minister said that each district would have at least one Covid-19 testing lab and said that only ICMR approved labs would do Covid-19 tests and action should be taken against any such lab that is found doing Covid-19 testing without ICMR approval.The state medical health minister Suresh Khanna, the state health minister Jai Pratap Singh, the minister of state for health Atul Garg and all the officers concerned in Team-11 were present at the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-will-pay-for-train-travel-of-its-migrant-workers-yogi-to-states/story-JyAOfMbc8yoYBIUar0cu3K.html
19-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab achieves 78% recovery rate: State government||Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Tuesday said the state has become the leading state in the battle against coronavirus by achieving a 78 per cent recovery rate.He said 1,57,13,789 people have been screened in April and out of them 9,593 were found to have symptoms and referred for further management and sampling.He said there have been 1,980 confirmed cases in the state and 52,955 persons have been tested out of which 48,813 were found negative.He said out of 1,980 COVID-19 patients, 1,557 cases were cured, the highest recovery rate in India.Sidhu said the ‘Risk Stratified Random Sampling’ needs to be done on frequent travellers, frontline workers, people with co-morbidity and people living in densely populated areas, etc, and focus would be on high-risk areas and high-risk individuals to further prevent the spread of the virus.The Health Minister said out of 4,218 Nanded returnees, 1,252 turned out to be positive for COVID-19. All of them have been declared cured and sent to their homes.Meanwhile, doctors and paramedical staff at the Civil Hospital in Ludhiana staged a protest over the poor quality protective equipment being provided to them while on duty.The protesters raised the provision of poor quality of PPE kits and N-95 masks.Protester Milan Verma said the masks that were provided were stitched or stapled masks for treating Covid patients and were made of substandard material. Even the PPE kits provided to them were made of poor quality.The protest was later called off on the assurance by Civil Surgeon Rajesh Bagga that the masks and the other equipment would be replaced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-achieves-78-recovery-rate-state-government/story-KWEcnmBTt7lShFfOqny8LJ.html
19-05-2020||City||Overburdened Kalwa hospital medical staff demand transport facility||The nursing and medical staff of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Hospital in Kalwa, Thane, stopped work for half an hour on Tuesday, demanding rescheduling of duty timings and providing transport to those nurses who come from far. The hospital, a major civic-run hospital in the city, is grappling with staff shortage, overburdened employees and lack of facilities.On Tuesday, around 50 nurses and medical staff cornered the dean of the hospital, claiming that favourable treatment is meted to some staffers while others are made to work for 12 to 15 hours wearing PPE kits. The dean, Pratibha Sawant, who has joined recently, was unavailable for comment despite repeated efforts to contact her.A nurse, who is working in the hospital for over two decades, said, “The nurses come from Ambernath, Vangani, Badlapur, Asangaon, Kalyan-Dombivli and Thane. When the pandemic started, our seniors decided that the nurses from Kalyan Dombivli and beyond will be given only morning duty. Those from Thane and nearby areas will get afternoon and night duty. However, those nurses coming from other cities do not have transport facility and reach work late. Most nurses on night shift have to work for more hours.”She said there is no bus provision for nurses from the city. “Last week, I was on afternoon duty and the nurse on night duty had not arrived so my senior asked me to do double duty. It is not easy to work for 20 hours wearing PPE suit. Most of us are overworked. Those, who test positive for Covid, are not given proper medical aid. We are not guided about changes in government guidelines,” she added.Another nurse said transport service and equal division of work are their main demands. “There is lot of favouritism in allotting duties. All nurses should be given the same amount of work. TMC is ready to provide facilities but the hospital management should communicate properly with them.”An official from the health department said, “The dean held a meeting with the nurses and the officials. We have provided them bus service and have asked them for the schedule of each shift so we can operate the buses accordingly. The issue of shift schedule will also be resolved.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/overburdened-kalwa-hospital-medical-staff-demand-transport-facility/story-WCBFRqXgmjv3TN5rVZpENN.html
19-05-2020||Mumbai||State board textbooks to be available in shops soon||Even as there is uncertainty over the commencement of the new academic year in schools across the state, Maharashtra’s school publication bureau Balbharti has started the distribution of textbooks for academic year 2020-21. While 57.3 million books for Class 1 to Class 8 are being distributed to schools under the free books scheme, the bureau has also started sending books upto Class 12 to distributors and book sellers from Monday.“We need to ensure that that there is no rush at the state’s depots if distributors come to collect them owing to the current lockdown situation. The bureau thus introduced an online registration system for sellers. They can raise their demand on Balbharti’s website and also make online payments for the books. The distributors can then collect the books from the depots, so that when the shops open, they would be made available to students,” read a release sent by the bureau. Balbharti will distribute 38.7 million books through state’s depots and private sellers.“In Green and Orange zones, shops are able to sell the books and students can pick them physically. In Red zones, some distributors are doing home deliveries at the local level,” said Vivek Gosavi, director, Balbharti.Meanwhile, the PDFs of textbooks for Class 1 to Class 12 have witnessed 8.1 million downloads on Balbharti’s website. “We have got a very good response and are happy that even the books of revised syllabus could reach students even in such a difficult situation,” said Gosavi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-board-textbooks-to-be-available-in-shops-soon/story-Ku69lgUlMU6f4iG4R32hSI.html
19-05-2020||Mumbai||Liquor shops in Thane start home delivery||After Thane district collector gave permission for home delivery of alcohol, liquor shop owners are flooded with calls for orders.As per rules, shop keepers will deliver only if the customer has an alcohol permit. There will be no delivery of liquor in containment zones.Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has asked shop owners to take orders over phone. Customers can also order online. Sunny Dighe, owner of Regal Wines at Patlipada, said, “We have displayed our phone number outside the shops. We have received a lot of calls for orders. We can only delivery a restricted quantity. We note down the permit number for authenticity and check drinking permit during delivery. We are also explaining the rules to customers.”Country-made liquor will not be allowed to be delivered home. “We have 177 containment zones in Thane. All rules by the excise department, collector and municipal corporation should be implemented. We will keep a strict eye on all liquor shops to ensure no one flouts any rules,” said Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner, TMC.Nimish Pol, 31, a resident of Patlipada, said, “I received the liquor bottles on Tuesday evening. I had placed an order on Monday and took a permit from the shop owner itself.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/liquor-shops-in-thane-start-home-delivery/story-EXsTFmjyqusjbov5ago73N.html
19-05-2020||Mumbai||IIT Bombay hasn’t paid maintenance staff, claims student body||A student body at the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B), has claimed that contractual workers on campus such as maintenance workers, housekeeping staff, mess workers and construction workers haven’t been paid by the institute administration since the lockdown was announced.In multiple letters to the administration, the IIT-Bombay for Justice forum has demanded that the institute pay wages to all its contractual workers, including those who have left campus amid the lockdown owing to Covid-19 outbreak.“In the light of the situation of non-payment of the wages for different sections of the workers in IIT-B, we demand that wages of the construction labourers for the period of lockdown, which has been denied for more than two months now, be paid in full,” read the letter issued by the students forum.It further said, “Wages must be paid not only to those who remain, but also to those who have left the campus. Wages must be paid to mess workers employed with contractors. In the case of these workers, the institute is the principal employer. A safe travel arrangement should be made by the IIT administration in consultation with the state machineries for those workers who want to go home.” Despite repeated attempts, the institute administration was unable for a response.HT has accessed a letter issued by AK Suresh, deputy director, academic and infrastructural affairs, to all campus residents on April 29. In the letter, Suresh has claimed that the institute has released salaries to labourers employed on campus. “In respect of mess workers, except three messes, for all other messes, payments are up to date and the delay in the case of these three messes are being addressed expeditiously,” said the letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/iit-bombay-hasn-t-paid-maintenance-staff-claims-student-body/story-btLvdnlEBf4t1oETrEUArN.html
19-05-2020||City||Punjab Roadways, PRTC resume bus services||Ludhiana Buses of Punjab Roadways and Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) will return to the roads on Wednesday after a nearly two-month suspension of services in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak.“The buses will run only within the boundaries of Punjab and Chandigarh, with halts only at bus stands and not at bus stops falling on the way,” said Inderjit Singh Chawla, general manager, Ludhiana depot, Punjab Roadways.“If the bus is running from Ludhiana to Amritsar, it will halt only at Jalandhar bus stand, not at the bus stops in Phillaur and Phagwara,” he said.The passengers will have to buy tickets from the counters while maintaining social distancing. It is mandatory for passengers to wear face masks at all times during the journey.No more than 30 passengers will be allowed in a bus. Two passengers will be accommodated on three seats, with the middle seat kept vacant, while one passenger will occupy the adjacent row with two seats. Chawla said seats not to be occupied will be marked with cross marks, adding that there was no notification regarding operation of private buses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-roadways-prtc-resume-bus-services/story-2ezFQVOsenmVxvgjsh0SAO.html
19-05-2020||Lucknow||Autorickshaw, car numbers in Congress list of buses for migrants, says UP govt; party protests||The Uttar Pradesh government Tuesday said the list of 1,000 buses offered by the Congress to ferry migrant workers contained registration numbers of autorickshaws and cars, triggering a protest by the opposition party at the state’s border. The Congress rejected the UP government claim, challenging it to conduct a “physical verification” of the buses. The state government said 297 of the buses on the list lacked either a fitness certificate or valid insurance papers. As the war of words escalated, UP Congress Chief Ajay Kumar Lallu and other party workers reached the Agra border, where they argued with policemen and staged a dharna. Lallu was seen being carried away from the protest site to a car, with four policemen holding his arms and legs. A UP Congress spokesperson said he was taken to a police station in Agra. According to the Congress, most of its buses are massed at the Rajasthan-Uttar Pradesh border, awaiting permission to cross over into the state’s Agra district. In a tweet in the evening, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi urged the Yogi Adityanath government should at least let the 879 buses “found fit” by it to enter the state. “UP government has crossed the limit,” she said, accusing it of creating hurdles in an effort to help migrant workers stranded due to the coronavirus lockdown. She said if the Yogi Adityanath government wishes it can put “BJP banners” on the buses. Former Congress MP Pramod Tiwari also threatened to sue the UP government for defamation. Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad accused the Congress of running a “bus scam”. “The Congress has got trapped in its own net of deceit,” he tweeted in Hindi. The row erupted on May 16 when Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra offered to provide 1,000 buses for migrant workers from Uttar Pradesh, stranded in other states because of the coronavirus lockdown. The Congress initially claimed that the state’s BJP government was ignoring the offer with Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath refusing even to give an appointment to a party delegation. Even while accusing the Congress of playing politics over the plight of migrant workers, the UP government on Monday formally accepted the offer. It asked the Congress to submit a list of the buses and their drivers and conductors. In an email received by Priyanka Gandhi’s private secretary at 11.40 pm Monday, the Uttar Pradesh government asked the opposition party to send the buses to Lucknow by 10 am on Tuesday. The aide wrote back to the UP government, saying that sending empty buses to Lucknow was “inhuman” and the “product of an anti-poor mindset” when thousands of workers are gathered at UP’s borders. UP’s Additional Chief Secretary (Home & Information) Awanish Awasthi then responded to the Congress letter, agreeing to take charge of the buses at the Delhi-UP border itself. He suggested that 500 buses should be stationed at the Kaushambi and Sahibabad bus stands in Ghaziabad, just across the border from Delhi. The remaining 500 should be sent to Noida. Awasthi said directions have been issued to the Ghaziabad and Gautam Buddh Nagar district magistrates to make use of the buses immediately after checking the permits, fitness, insurance and driving licences of the crew. But the row reignited hours later when the UP government said the Congress list of 1,000 buses contained registration number of other vehicles. “In the list of buses provided by the Congress, there are motorcycles, three-wheelers, an ambulance and private cars,” said Mrityunjay Kumar, media advisor to the chief minister, listing out the registration numbers. UP Congress spokesperson Ashok Singh challenged the claim. “There are 1,000 buses. If the UP Government has any doubts about them, they can conduct a physical verification of the vehicles at the state’s border,” he said. In another letter in the afternoon, Priyanka Gandhi’s private secretary said the buses cannot be brought to Noida and Ghaziabad as the government has not given permission for them to enter Uttar Pradesh from Rajasthan. Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya compared the episode “scams” during the Congress terms at the centre. “The ‘bus ghotaala’ (bus scam) now is the latest addition to the Bofors, 2G, Coalgate and Commonwealth Games,” he tweeted in Hindi. “The Congress is making fun of labourers by providing details of autorickshaws and motorcycles in the name of buses. Misleading people by telling lies is in the DNA of the Congress party,” he said. Another deputy chief minister, Dinesh Sharma, accused the Congress of using migrant workers as “pawns”. He asked why the Congress couldn’t send the buses through the government in Rajasthan, where it is in power. “The Congress is trying to malign the image of the UP government, and it must rectify its behavior,” he said. In Delhi, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala accused the chief minister of being insensitive. “Kindly put a stop on cheap politics and not be insensitive and inhumane towards the plight of migrants. Kindly allow buses to ply migrants home and help them instead of embroiling them in cheap and petty politics,” Surjewala told reporters through a video conference. Another spokesperson Surpriya Shrinate alleged that regional transport officers (RTOs) are now threatening owners of the buses made available for the Congress exercise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/autorickshaw-car-numbers-in-congress-list-of-buses-for-migrants-says-up-govt-party-protests/story-TJZQwaqBE8Yjc6DID2cneN.html
19-05-2020||City||New domicile law will liberate us from worst-ever slavery, say neglected strata of J&K||As the Centre has notified the amended domicile law in the Union territory, Jammu and Kashmir’s neglected strata have welcomed the development while hoping for a better future for the new and future generations.Expressing gratitude towards the BJP-led central government for implementing the Domicile Act to solve the 73-year-old human rights issue of refugees displaced from Pakistan, West Pakistani Refugees Action Committee (WPRAC) chairman Labha Ram Gandhi said it was all due to the BJP leadership’s sincere and humane approach that they will get the rights needed to lead a dignified life.Gandhi lauded Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah for positively responding to the genuine demands of West Pakistan refugees living in different parts of Jammu since 1947.“Except betrayals by successive governments at the Centre as well as in the erstwhile J&K state, nothing was done to solve our issues,” Gandhi said.Gandhi, who represents 1.25 lakh refugees belonging to the scheduled caste and backward classes, said, “Now, our future generations will get all the rights.”The West Pakistan refugees were not considered residents of the state since 1947, thus being deprived of jobs or admission to professional courses. They had fled Pakistan during the Partition from Sialkot and settled in Jammu, Samba and Kathua districts.Valmiki community leader Gharu Bhatti said the new domicile law has brought an end to their slavery by the successive Kashmir-centric regimes.“We were brought here in 1957 from Gurdaspur and Amritsar on the assurance of the then Prime Minister of J&K Bakshi Ghulam Mohammed that we would be given permanent resident status and other privileges. But for 62 years, we worked as sweepers, irrespective of our educational qualifications,” said Bhatti.Eklavya, another Valmiki community member, who has done a master’s course in political science and does menial jobs, hoped for a new dawn of equality and level playing field to all.“Now, children of our community can become public servants and get other government jobs. For 62 years, we worked as sweepers in municipal committees, but now the worst kind of slavery has come to an end,” he added.Terming the amendments in the domicile law as a red letter day for the internally displaced Kashmiri Pandit (KP) community, All Parties Migrants Coordination Committee (APMCC) expressed immense pleasure and thanked PM Modi, the home minister, J&K Lieutenant Governor and all those associated with the back channel engagements to make this happen.APMCC chairman Vinod Pandit said, “It is a historic decision for the displaced people of J&K as now KPs who left the valley May 14, 1944 onwards will be eligible for a domicile certificate,” said Pandit.APMCC national spokesperson King C Bharati said, “This step is a real healing touch to the displaced Hindu population of J&K.”Similarly, over 5,000 families from PoJK settled in other parts of the country have hailed the Centre’s decision.“With this move, PM Modi and HM Amit Shah have rekindled a ray of hope and sense of belongingness among this community, which had remained ignored by the earlier regimes since Independence,” said Rajiv Chuni, chairman of SOS International, an apex organisation of PoJK displaced persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/new-domicile-law-will-liberate-us-from-worst-ever-slavery-say-neglected-strata-of-j-k/story-MXG3W5FRiCfM0OVM2tfa3K.html
19-05-2020||City||Two more test positive in HP, count now 92||Two more person tested positive for Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh on Tuesday, taking the state’s tally to 92.The fresh cases have been reported from Kangra and Una.The Kangra patient, a 21-year-old youth from Chowari sub-division of Chamba district, had returned from Dubai on May 13 in a special relief flight that landed at Amritsar Airport, said Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati.He was in institutional quarantine at Damtal on Himachal-Punjab border in Kangra. The patient is being shifted to Covid-care centre at Baijnath, the DC said.With one new case, the total count in the state has climbed to 92 and. Active cases are now 38, as two patient recovered late evening.Himachal Pradesh has witnessed a spurt in Covid-19 cases since May 4, with 52 people testing positive. Two people have died due to the virus during the corresponding period.Kangra is the worst-hit district with 22 cases followed by Una with 19 cases and Hamirpur with 15 cases.Thirteen cases have been reported in Chamba district, nine in Solan, seven in Bilaspur, four in Bilaspur; two each in Sirmaur and Mandi and one in Shimla.Till date, 19,490 people have been tested for Covid-19 in the state. More than 22,000 are under active surveillance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/one-more-tests-positive-in-himachal-count-now-91/story-01HD5DJdiyPeyRv13hzEqO.html
19-05-2020||City||Police have right to beat accused, says Punjab cop, gets court notice||A court in Punjab rapped a police officer on the knuckles on Tuesday for intemperate conduct after he claimed that the men in khaki have the right to beat an accused at the time of arrest.Additional district and sessions judge, Parminder Singh Grewal pulled up assistant sub-inspector Surjit Singh of the the Jalandhar police and issued show cause for intemperate conduct and behaviour in the court after he said in a loud voice that “Police have every right to beat the accused at the time of his arrest in the present case”.ASI Surjit Singh made the statement after he was asked by the court specifically as to whether the police had beaten the main accused (Amol Mehmi) at the time of arrest at the spot or not. The court was hearing the bail plea of Parminder Kumar Mehmi, father of Amol Mehmi, who allegedly dragged Jalandhar police ASI, Mulak Raj on the car bonnet on May 2 during curfew in the state. Amol, the main accused already granted the bail by the court in the case on May 13. The court directed the ASI Surjit Singh (who brought the police file to the court) to file his reply on the next date of hearing on May 21 as to why necessary legal proceedings under Indian penal code and other law should not be initiated against him.The court said ASI Surjit Singh’s arrogance and intemperate behaviour was highly reprehensible which was not expected from the member of a disciplined force like the police.“It also shows that he has no regard for the rule of law and he considered that he as well as the police are law unto themselves,” the judge said. The court also directed the commissioner of police, Jalandhar, Gurpreet Singh Bhullar, to depute a responsible police official not below the rank of superintendent of police to assist the court in the case, as a lower rank official like ASI Surjit Singh does not know how to behave in the court.Besides, the court also directed the area assistant commissioner of police (ACP) concerned to produce the entire CCTV footage of alleged place of the scuffle in the court at the next hearing to effectively arrive at the conclusions for deciding the bail plea.Police had registered the case against the father-son duo under 307 (attempt to murder) and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act and the Disaster Management Act at division number 6 police station in Jalandhar on May 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-have-right-to-beat-accused-says-punjab-cop-gets-court-notice/story-79lUnaF3IeUNoxSfSXwYtM.html
19-05-2020||City||HC tells cops to verify emails sent to Apeejay School branches||New Delhi: The Delhi High Court has directed the Cyber Crime Cell of the city police to file a report detailing their views on the genuineness of the emails sent to two branches of Apeejay School from the Directorate of Education to hike the fees after the latter had alleged that communications were forged.Justice Rajiv Shakdher also directed the school authorities to not charge any amount besides the tuition fees while also directing them to pay salaries of staff and teachers at rates prevailing earlier.“The Cyber Crime Cell, Delhi Police will file a report before this Court with regard to their view as to the genuineness of the e-mails referred to hereinabove i.e. e-mails dated 12.12.2019, 16.12.2019 and 25.02.2020,” the judge said in its order dated May 18.The court’s order comes while hearing a plea from the school management challenging the Directorate of Education’s (DoE) April 22 finding, that the two institutions had illegally hiked fees and compelled parents to pay that along with arrears, and its recommendation to lodge an FIR against the management and seal the premises.Reacting to the order, the school authorities said, “The High Court has once again found merits in our argument against these malafide intentions and ordered no coercive action thus no FIR will be registered. The DOE has not responded to our repeated pleas to appoint an independent investigator for these baseless and malicious accusations and the court has now given directions for the same”.“The court has accepted and upheld our request to charge old the fees, pro tem, until the investigation is complete in a few weeks. We have complete faith in the law and look forward to the investigator bringing out the truth. Apeejay schools carry the 50+ years of education legacy and have been historically known for its values and promotion of education as a social cause. We will take all legal actions against those who threaten the future of our students and tarnish the good name of our parents and teachers especially at a time when society needs to be united in support of each other. Our values prevent us from bowing down to extortion and corruption at any level,” a statement issued by the school authorities said. In its plea filed through advocate Sanjeev Ralli, the school authorities had contended that the petitioners were unaware of the decision of the DoE seeking permission to initiate criminal proceedings against them and hence could not have used it in the earlier cases contested in the high court.He also contended that the emails in question were sent by the Deputy Director, DOE and/or his office to the school authorities.Appearing for the DoE, its additional standing counsel, Gautam Narayan told the court that the emails were forged and not sent by the concerned department.The court issued notice to the Delhi government, the police and the DoE on the plea and asked the school management or officials to join the police investigation while directing that no coercive action would be taken against them till the next date of hearing.The counsel for the school assured the court that it would collect only the tuition fees on the rate that were applicable in the financial year 2017-2018. The matter would be now heard on June 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hc-tells-cops-to-verify-emails-sent-to-apeejay-school-branches/story-OGJzTG4fr5x5LISreMa6yN.html
19-05-2020||Pune||NCL develops face masks capable of filtering out 99% bacteria||With face masks becoming mandatory for the next few months amid the ongoing pandemic, a group of scientists at CSIR-National Chemical Laboratory (NCL) has designed face masks which, they say, can filter out up to 99 per cent bacteria. The mask is called ‘Biopolymer Nanocoated Medical Grade Mask’ and production of these will start in next few days.A team lead by Dr Syed Dastager, Dr Mahesh Dharne and Dr Shubhangi Umbarkar used CSIR-NCL’s patented bacterial nanocellulose technology along with nano coating. “The cotton cloth coated in a solution of bacterial cellulose and nano material completely prevented the penetration of bacterial growth, indicating promise as a material for face mask filter. We prepared prototype face masks using spun-bound polypropylene medical grade cloth to evaluate bacterial filtration efficiency (BFE), particulate filter efficiency (PFE), breathability, flammability, and splash resistance tests.” said Dr Dharne. CSIR-NCL has licensed the biopolymer nanocoated technology to Pune-based MSME SETLAB INDIA. SETLAB plans to start production in next few days with 5,000 mask per day and will gradually reach the target of one lakh masks per day.“The South India Textile Research Association (SITRA), Coimbatore, a government approved certifying nodal agency for medical textiles conducted these tests on CSIR-NCL’s sample face masks for confirming the quality. The bacterial filtration efficiency (BFE) is 99.9% according to the ASTM (formerly known as American Society for Testing and Materials) standard using aerosols of human pathogen Staphylococcus aureus, found in the upper respiratory tract and on the skin. The particulate filter efficiency (PFE), another quality indicator for face masks, showed a high value of 92.63%, indicating high restriction of hazardous particulates,” said Dr Shubhangi UmbarkarThe face mask qualified the tests for splash resistance to measure prevention against splashes of blood and body fluids. The pressure differential indicated easy breathability through the facemask as medical grade and is of Class-1 material in the flammability test.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/ncl-develops-face-masks-capable-of-filtering-out-99-bacteria/story-AfnKn05olldL3v2wj9WZUK.html
19-05-2020||Pune||‘Bhimthadi Jatra’ extends helping hand to self-help groups||The Covid-19 pandemic has put self-help groups, local artisans, craftsmen and farmers in unprecedented difficulties with them fighting a battle for survival.To help these people, the Bhimthadi Jatra, a legacy and well known rural carnival, known for their inclusive and constructive work around women empowerment and women entrepreneurship has come forward by creating an initiative ‘Bhimthadi for local’.“This initiative will provide much-needed support to these distressed local businesses, where, Bhimthadi Jatra social media accounts will be used extensively to promote products made by self-help groups, artisans, and craftsmen. People will be able to order their favourite products by directly contacting producers. Orders will be delivered after lockdown,” said Sunanda Pawar, founder of Bhimthadi Jatra.For additional transparency in transactions, Bhimthadi will also help buyers and sellers through a dedicated helpline number.“This will be the 15th year of Bhimthadhi Jatra which has empowered more than 3 lakh women and 3,500 self-help groups, enabling means of financial independence,” added Pawar, who has been a staunch flag bearer of women empowerment and their financial independence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/bhimthadi-jatra-extends-helping-hand-to-self-help-groups/story-m6FxkeDAa6dX427xP9inCJ.html
19-05-2020||Mumbai||FIR filed against Ghatkopar residents for protesting against quarantine centre||Around 150 people from Ghatkopar gathered outside a Covid care facility to protest against a hostel being converted into a quarantine centre, on Monday night. The civic body has decided to file a complaint against these people for opposing government work.The civic body and local MLA planned to set up an extended facility of 30 beds for Covid-19 patients of Hindu Sabha Hospital at Shri Virji Ladhabhai KDO Jain Vidyarthi Gruha at Cama Lane. However, the local residents opposed the plan on the grounds that it will compromise their safety.“The local corporator and MLA were visiting the hostel next to our building, which is why we stepped down to seek clarity on it. None of us was consulted or informed about the plan. There was no plan to protest,” said a local resident.The resident added that they requested the authorities to choose another location for the centre or provide them with sanitisation options to keep them secured.However, the assistant commissioner of the ward said that the facility has already been set-up, which will be managed by hospital staff.“We are in a situation where we need more and more centres to look after the increasing number of Covid patients. If everyone keeps opposing centres like that, how will we work? When the crowd didn’t listen to us, I asked the senior police officer to file an FIR against them,” said Ajit Kumar Ambi, assistant municipal commissioner.According to details provided by the police, the fifth and sixth floor of the hostel is being made into the quarantine centre.“The gathering of nearby residents occurred at around 8.30pm on Monday night when the civic authorities, local politicians and police were inspecting the area, the residents opposed it. They gathered below the society complex and violated social distancing norms,” said a police official.A case has been registered under Indian Penal Code (IPC) section 188 (defying public servant’s duly promulgated orders) and provisions of the National Disaster Management Act against 40 to 50 unknown residents living in the vicinity of the hostel. Earlier, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) plans to set up a quarantine facility at Wankhede stadium met with opposition from local residents, and Marine Drive Residents’ Association wrote a letter in this regard to Chief Secretary Ajoy Mehta. Follow which, the civic body on Sunday decided to cancel the plan to turn the stadium into quarantine facility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fir-filed-against-ghatkopar-residents-for-protesting-against-quarantine-centre/story-B8l5p2JRW82kwjnz4SvMeL.html
19-05-2020||City||Quarantine stamp easily fades away: Kalyan residents||Residents of a housing society near Birla College in Kalyan complained to the civic body on Tuesday that the quarantine stamp on residents’ hands easily wipes off in less than 24 hours. Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) is finding out if there has been a change in the ink used for the stamp.“We had earlier received complaints from residents that the ink is leading to skin irritation. We had started marking the finger but we will probe into the quality of ink,” said Vijay Suryavanshi, KDMC commissioner.After a man tested positive in a housing complex near Birla College, all residents were home quarantined. The housing society has 48 flats and more than 150 residents.“Around 12.30pm on Monday, the KDMC officials took a survey and stamped the hands of every tenant. By 9am on Tuesday, the ink had faded and in some instances there was no sign of ink. It did even last for 24 hours, let alone 28 days of quarantine,” said Sanket Juwatkar, 28, a resident.Meanwhile, KDMC officials have been asking everyone to stay at home and follow lockdown rules.“For the past two months, we have been asking everyone who has been quarantined, to stay indoors. All essentials such as grocery are being provided through home delivery. People can step out only for emergency. But, people have been violating norms and this is the reason we still need to stamp those in quarantine,” said Suryavanshi..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/quarantine-stamp-easily-fades-away-kalyan-residents/story-ugulUusE7ieg0724wZ6yaK.html
19-05-2020||Mumbai||HC refuses to interfere in decision of high power committee on releasing prisoners on bail||The Bombay high court on Tuesday refused to interfere in the March 25 decision of the high power committee set up to decide on releasing prisoners on temporary bail and parole based on the directions of the Supreme Court to decongest jails to curb the spread of the coronavirus. The HC has directed one of the four petitioners who had challenged the classification of prisoners by the HPC to file a fresh petition which would include the outcome of a May 11 representation by the petitioner before the HPC.A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice SS Shinde while hearing the petitions filed by four persons, incarcerated for various crimes under special enactments sought setting aside the March 25 decision of the HPC to not extend the benefit of interim bail or parole to persons booked under special acts. The petitioners had claimed that as the decision of HPC was discriminatory it should be set aside and persons punished or awaiting trial for crimes under the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA), Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors Act (MPID), Unlawful Activist Prevention Act (UAPA) and Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) should also be given interim bail or parole.In the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, on March 23 the Supreme Court had issued directives to decongest jails and directed state HPCs to decide on which prisoners or undertrials could be released. On Tuesday, when the four petitions came up for hearing the court was informed by senior advocate Satish Talekar that on May 11 the HPC while hearing a representation had refused to budge from its March 25 decision to not allow persons booked under special acts to be given interim bail or parole. Talekar said that even though some of the crimes under the special acts had a punishment in the form of paying a minimal fine, the accused were being denied interim bail/parole. The bench, however, said that it was not inclined to interfere with the HPC decision and disposed of the petition with a liberty to the petitioners to file a fresh petition by including May 11 decision of the HPC.Similarly in the petition filed by Humayun Merchant, an aide of former don Iqbal Mirchi through advocate Dr Sujay Kantawala, the court was informed that Merchant was booked under the PMLA Act. He had filed bail applications in both the sessions court and high court and had also challenged the March 25 decision of the HPC in the high court. After hearing the submissions the court held that he could not pursue a similar cause in different courts and dismissed his petition with the liberty to pursue bail proceedings in one of the courts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-refuses-to-interfere-in-decision-of-high-power-committee-on-releasing-prisoners-on-bail/story-h2mtKfB7mY0EbkU7ur53iP.html
19-05-2020||Mumbai||Cancel final year college exams, state education dept writes to UGC||After receiving several queries from final year university students and parents about the exams scheduled in July 2020, the state minister for higher and technical education, Uday Samant on Tuesday announced that he has written to the University Grants Commission (UGC) to cancel the exams.In a letter addressed to the UGC, Samant has highlighted that due to the current situation of increasing Covid-19 cases, it will be impossible for the state government to conduct examinations for lakhs of students soon.This move comes less than ten days after Samant announced that all university students except final year students will be promoted to the next academic year, whereas final year students will have to appear for exams in July.“The lockdown has been extended for the fourth time in Maharashtra and there is an increase in the daily count of Covid cases. In such a situation, we cannot put health and lives of eight-10 lakh young students at risk by conducting examinations,” said Uday Samant in a Facebook live session on Tuesday evening. He added that the state government took this decision keeping in mind the safety of students. “Cabinet minister Aditya Thackeray has also previously highlighted this issue and a member of Yuva Sena has already approached the UGC with similar concerns. We hope the UGC understands our predicament,” said Samant.He added that the state government will wait for a couple of days to hear from the commission. Meanwhile, senior ministers and education officials along with heads of state universities will meet to discuss the plan of action. “By promoting all students, we assure the UGC that promotion will be based on a viable gradation formula and by ensuring that no student is at a loss,” said Samant.He further highlighted that while final year exams could be avoided, for the time being, it will be difficult to cancel entrance exams for professional courses. “We plan to conduct the common entrance test (CET) over a period of days in July. All social distancing norms will be followed, ensuring the safety of all 5.24 lakh registered students. We will also give students the option of choosing an exam centre closer home to avoid travel,” said Samant. He added that a call on this will be taken in the future in case the lockdown situation doesn’t change.He further stated that a meeting of top education officials will take place over the next two days to decide on the future course of action for the state education department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cancel-final-year-college-exams-state-education-dept-writes-to-ugc/story-Fuhfn85WQTKq4OGhD5sICI.html
19-05-2020||Kolkata||West Bengal Covid-19 tally jumps to 2,961 with 136 fresh cases||West Bengal on Tuesday reported 136 new COVID-19 positive cases, taking the state tally of positive cases to 2,961, said the health department. Among 2,961 cases, 178 people have succumbed to the infection and 72 fatalities have occurred due to comorbidity till date.According to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, the total COVID-19 cases in the country reached 1,01,139. As many as 134 deaths were reported due to the disease in the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 3,163.Out of the total confirmed cases, 39,174 have been cured/discharged/migrated so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/west-bengal-covid-19-tally-jumps-to-2-961-with-136-fresh-cases/story-2qFPeLGirdfBPuZLJ2pyNP.html
19-05-2020||City||Ludhiana man attacks ASI visiting his house to seize drugs||A man allegedly assaulted an assistant sub-inspector (ASI), who visited his house for recovery of drugs, in Basant Nagar, Daba, on Monday.After manhandling the cop and tearing off his uniform, the accused, Mann Singh, fled after scaling a wall of the house.The complainant, ASI Sukhbir Singh, told the police that he received a tip-off that one Gurnam Singh had brought drugs and stored these in his house.When he visited the house with head constable Balbir Singh, Gurnam opened the door. As they were questioning him, Gurnam’s brother Mann Singh came out and manhandled him.The ASI alleged that the accused attacked him and also tore his uniform before fleeing. A case under Sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused at the Daba police station. A hunt is on to arrest him.If proven, the charges entail imprisonment of two years, and three months, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-man-attacks-asi-visiting-his-house-to-seize-drugs/story-QZMuOAHX6CfDjEA8p9c2RO.html
19-05-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University dental college to hold online exams for internal assessment||Panjab University’s (PU) Dr Harvansh Singh Judge Institute of Dental Sciences and Hospital is now planning to take online exams to mark internal assessment of BDS students.Based on the information shared by the college authorities, students have been asked to prepare themselves for online internal evaluation or mock theory examination, which will be of three-hour duration. The online examination is aimed to prepare students for the final examination.Principal of PU dental college, Dr Jagat Bhushan, said, “We are planning to conduct internal examination to prepare students for the final examination. The college conducts these exams every year around April. However, this year, the exams could not be conducted owing to lockdown amid the coronavirus outbreak.”“As our students come from different parts of the country, it is not possible to hold exams physically. Hence, we are planning to conduct the papers via online mode,” he added.There are around 500 BDS students enrolled at PU’s dental college. Their final exams, which are usually held in May, have also been delayed due to the lockdown.One of the faculty members of the college requesting anonymity said the staff had completed the entire syllabus by March. “Since then, we have been keeping students engaged in assignments so that if the final exams are not held, we can assess their performance through these assignments,” added the faculty member.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-dental-college-to-hold-online-exams-for-internal-assessment/story-e8WSnjoFAkvbD0tCJUigMK.html
19-05-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra reports 2,100 new Covid-19 cases, tally 37,158: Health Minister Rajesh Tope||Maharashtra on Tuesday reported 2,100 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the overall tally to 37,158, Health Minister Rajesh Tope said.“The Covid-19 cases on Tuesday increased by 2,100, taking the tally to 37,158,” he said in a televised address.Tope said a record 1,202 patients were discharged, taking the total number to 9,639 so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-reports-2-100-new-covid-19-cases-tally-37-158-health-minister-rajesh-tope/story-N6z8Up5l9GfjgUifgBi8QM.html
19-05-2020||City||Shops reopen with precautions as top priority||Pune: A day after Pune Vyapari Mahasangh – a representative body of traders and shop owners in the city – appealed to shop owners involved in non-essential services to restart businesses, some establishments in the central parts of the city began operations.Shailesh Mhaske, who opened his furniture shop in Shukrawar peth on Tuesday, after two months of closure, said that it was a major relief to resume business.Pune Vyapari Mahasangh has appealed to its members to open the shops for cleaning, checking stock and carrying out sanitisation of establishments before resuming business.“For the last two months, due to the lockdown in the country, I had closed my shop and did not try to open even once. Last night I got the message about opening the shop for cleaning purposes, and accordingly, I have opened and am now cleaning it. I hope that our business restarts soon. We are taking safety precautions to start business,” said Mhaske.Haribhau Chillal, another shop owner who runs a leather-bag and belt shop on Satara road said, “It had become very difficult to survive during the lockdown. Savings were drying up and we desperately wanted to open our shop. Finally today, we have opened the shop, cleaned the goods and as per government instructions, we will now keep it open for customers. All the necessary safety precautions are being taken. We give sanitiser to every customer and also wear masks and gloves in the shop.”About the decision to open shops in Pune district, Fatechand Ranka, president of Pune Vyapari Mahasangh, said, “Our earlier appeal to members was to keep shops closed till May 17, but after a meeting with members via Zoom it was decided to open shops from Tuesday. Initially all the shop owners can do cleaning, checking of stocks and sanitisation. They should also strictly follow the guidelines given by the state government and Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC).”“There are many things with which shop owners have to deal with — salaries, electricity bills, and maintenance. Coronavirus is going to remain for a while, but if we keep the shops closed for more time it is going to adversely affect business. So this decision has been taken by the association,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shops-reopen-with-precautions-as-top-priority/story-clpNzK9HPa5cWygdVIG5JK.html
19-05-2020||City||Over 74,218 stranded J&K residents brought back home||The government has brought back over 74,218 residents of Jammu and Kashmir through Covid special trains, buses and flights, an official spokesperson said on Tuesday.As per the detailed break-up, the government has evacuated 59,492 residents of J&K stranded in other states and UTs, through Lakhanpur besides bringing back home 14,225 people through special trains at Jammu and Udhampur railway stations. Around 501 passengers including students have been brought back through special flights, so far.Additionally, 1,844 stranded passengers have entered through Lakhanpur from May 18 to May 19 while 890 passengers have reached today in the sixth Covid special train at Jammu railway station beside around 510 passengers have reached Udhampur railway station from Moradabad in the tenth train. So far, six trains have reached Jammu with a total of 5,508 stranded passengers belonging to different districts while 8,717 passengers have reached Udhampur in 10 special trains, so far. Besides, two trains carrying 1,400 passengers from Bhopal and Bengaluru are expected to reach Udhampur by Wednesday morning.The administration is ensuring sampling of returnees being done at the kiosks established at the stations. Besides, an elaborate transport system has been established to take the passengers to their native districts for administrative quarantine amidst strict adherence to the guidelines issued by the MHA and MoFHW regarding Covid-19.As per the official communiqué, of 59,492 returnees evacuated through Lakhanpur till May 19, includes 13,240 from Punjab; 19,616 from Himachal Pradesh, 21 from Andhra Pradesh, 5,600 from Delhi, 1,290 from Gujarat, 2,215 from Rajasthan, 3,499 from Haryana, 110 from Chattisgarh, 3,050 from Uttarakhand, 587 from Maharashtra, 3,834 from Uttar Pradesh, 42 from Odhisa, 244 from Assam and 898 from Madhya Pradesh, 88 from Dehradun, 906 from Chandigarh, 635 from Telangana, 7 from Karnataka, 52 from Chennai, 236 from Bihar, 46 from West Bengal, 26 from Jharkhand, 3 from Nepal and 3,247 from other states and UTs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/over-74-218-stranded-j-k-residents-brought-back-home/story-fd2viMb8oEMZSFNRAFrQtO.html
19-05-2020||Lucknow||UP govt bearing expenses to bring migrants home, states should not charge them: Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday asked other states not to charge train fares from its migrant workers as his government was the bearing the expenses.Uttar Pradesh has arranged trains from different states to bring back migrant labourers and workers willing to return. The state is bearing all expenses for it, the chief minister said at a high level review meeting with senior officials here.Till now, the state government has brought back more than 16 lakh migrant labourers and workers safely. As many as 656 ‘Shramik Special’ trains have brought 8.52 lakh migrants. In the next two days, 258 more trains will come. This way, a total of 914 trains have been arranged, Adityanath said.Around 12,000 buses of the UP State Road Transport Corporation have been arranged for taking migrants to their home districts. Besides, 200 buses have been given to every district magistrate, he said.The chief minister said 16 lakh more migrants could arrive and keeping this in mind, there was a need to make proper arrangements for quarantine centres and community kitchens, and directed the officials in this regard.Asking them to further strengthen the quarantine centres and the community kitchens, Adityanath directed that CCTV cameras be installed at these facilities.He asked for continuing the home delivery system in containment zones and sanitisation of hotspot areas and the homes of all those undergoing quarantine.Every house in a hotspot area should be sanitised, the chief minister said, calling for increased patrolling during the lockdown on highways, expressways and in market areas.The chief minister said for patrolling in rural areas, help of home guards and ex-servicemen below 60 years of age should be taken and it should be ensured that there is no crowding anywhere.He said that testing labs should be set up in every district and asked for increasing their testing capacity.The chief minister directed that only ICMR-approved labs should conduct tests of COVID-19.He said a senior official should be sent to assist chief medical officers in every district.For checking road accidents, the police and the Transport department should work in coordination with each other, the chief minister. PTI SAB IJT||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-govt-bearing-expenses-to-bring-migrants-home-states-should-not-charge-them-yogi-adityanath/story-JktEn5PdsLrDv4XkYzHHQL.html
19-05-2020||City||2,630 more migrants take train to Bihar from Mohali||As many as 2,630 migrant workers left the Mohali railway station for Bihar in two trains.The first train carrying 1,370 migrant workers left Mohali for Purnea in Bihar at 1pm while the second train carrying 1,260 migrants departed for Bettiah in West Champaran district of Bihar at 5 pm. The district administration provided food, water and biscuits to the passengers, while making sure that they adhered to the guidelines of social distancing and were screened thoroughly before they boarded the train.Further, it was ensured that the passengers arriving at the destination comply with health protocols as prescribed by the destination state or Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-630-more-migrants-take-train-to-bihar-from-mohali/story-I1CReE1ciuUaolBN0fMFiM.html
19-05-2020||City||Ludhiana’s woman SHO back to work after beating Covid-19||After recovering from Covid-19, sub-inspector Arshpreet Kaur Grewal rejoined duty as the SHO of Basti Jodhewal police station on Tuesday. She has replaced inspector Pramod Kumar.Grewal, 28, had tested positive for coronavirus disease on April 17 and admitted to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH). She was discharged from the hospital on May 8. After spending another 10 days in quarantine, she resumed work on Tuesday.The SHO was given a hearty welcome by her colleagues and locals, following which she visited the vegetable market to review the arrangements there.“I was missing my uniform, so I am happy to wear it again. I am grateful to commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal, who posted me at the Basti Jodhewal station again,” she said.“I had lots of time in the hospital. I talked to my friends and family over phone, played online games with them and read lots of books. Self-assessment during my hospital stay has also made me stronger and more confident,” she said, adding that during her recovery she was more concerned about whether her family or colleagues may have been infected due to her.“Death of ACP Anil Kumar Kohli due to Covid-19 was a setback for the whole police department. I had learnt a lot from the honest officer,” said Grewal, who, along with ACP Kohli, was posted at the vegetable market when they were both found positive for Covid-19 in April. The ACP had succumbed to the virus on April 18 after remaining on ventilator support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-s-woman-sho-back-to-work-after-beating-covid-19/story-mMw0jJDEQLQuLb0IbK7PIO.html
19-05-2020||Lucknow||Over 8 lakh migrants reached UP in trains so far: Official||As many as 656 trains have arrived in Uttar Pradesh with over 8.52 lakh migrant workers till Tuesday, an official said. “On Tuesday 90 trains will arrived in UP. Permission has been given for  258 trains that are likely in next few days. A total of 914 trains will bring over 11.80 lakh migrants to the state in days to come,” Awanish Kumar Awasthi, additional chief secretary, home and information, told reporters. “Till now, 656  trains have brought 8.52 lakh migrants,” Awasthi said. The Railways is being paid by the state government for all the trains that are being brought in the state and no migrants have been asked to make any payment, according to the official. He said the Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) had the biggest cavalcade of buses. “Besides, orders have been issued to acquire private buses to take migrants to their home,” he said, adding that the police had been directed to increase patrolling of highways in the night. The additional chief secretary said there were 578 hotspots in the state and population these zones were 42 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/over-8-lakh-migrants-reached-up-in-trains-so-far-official/story-5UX5wuEgFIJnj7xC0y5xdK.html
19-05-2020||Mumbai||Three snakes rescued in Thane and Bhiwandi||Three snakes, including a 6.5-foot-long python, that had slithered into residential areas in Thane and Bhiwandi, were rescued in the past 24 hours. Residents called up volunteers of Plants and Animals Welfare Society (PAWS), Mumbai, after spotting the snakes.The first two snakes were rescued from different areas in Thane on Monday. “The python was spotted outside a house in Lokmanya Nagar Pada number 4. A two-foot-long sand boa was rescued from a company’s canteen at Wagale Estate,” said Sunish Subramanian, 32, honorary wildlife warden and founder of PAWS, Mumbai.Another sand boa was sported in Bhiwandi on Tuesday.“The 1.5-foot-long snake had entered a kitchen in a house at Gayatri Nagar in Bhiwandi,” said a volunteer from PAWS.The volunteers said all snakes were non-venomous and were released into the forest after medical examination.“Due to the heat, more snakes are seen in the area. We have asked residents to call the helpline number if they see a snake,” said Subramanian.If you see a snake in residential areas, you can call the PAWS-Mumbai helpline 9833480388.“We keep getting alerts about snakes being rescued. But, this is normal. The volunteers from PAWS alert us and we release the snakes into the forest,” said a senior official from Thane forest department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/three-snakes-rescued-in-thane-and-bhiwandi/story-4vTzxLkCcP2WJOZVZCVxSP.html
19-05-2020||Mumbai||MbPT to start ‘Covidcare ashram’ for asymptomatic patients||The city’s port authority has readied a facility, Covidcare ashram, for non-critical, asymptomatic patients with no co-morbidities in Wadala (East). The facility will be exclusively for the port employees and pensioners.Mumbai Port Trust (MbPT) chairman Sanjay Bhatia, on Monday, said that apart from medical facilities, the patients will be encouraged to do yoga, meditation among other techniques to recover. “We have identified a facility that can house 60 people from the port area itself. We will conduct sessions online for the patients,” said Bhatia, a meditation practitioner himself. He has been conducting healing sessions for employees and pensioners during the lockdown period. In a webinar on Monday, Bhatia also said that the port trust’s hospital will also add 80 more beds for Covid-19 patients. “We had 50 beds first, which was increased to 75 later. Till date, we have had 241 patients and recorded 27 deaths,” Bhatia said. The port trust also has 35,000 pensioners and 6,000 employees on its pay-roll. “We have observed that a lot of patients are coming in late for treatment. So we have now appointed a nodal officer in each department who are calling the pensioners to check on their health if they are showing any symptoms,” he said. With a decrease in port activities, the authority is working on a masterplan that looks at an urban overhaul of the port area that stretches from Wadala to Colaba. However, with the pandemic ensued lockdown, MbPT is estimating a 3-4 month delay in all its projects, including the development of the waterfront.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mbpt-to-start-covidcare-ashram-for-asymptomatic-patients/story-gyxkB3HMdebPKrUtlY5PlJ.html
19-05-2020||City||TMC to hire 39 doctors for Kalwa hospital||After five interns and five resident doctors of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Hospital in Kalwa tested positive for coronavirus and 30 interns were quarantined, health services at the hospital are badly affected.The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has decided to hire 39 resident doctors for two months to deal with the increasing Covid cases.TMC has put up a notice for walk-in interviews. A TMC official requesting anonymity said, “We will hire 39 resident doctors on a temporary basis for two months to assist in the Covid wards. Depending on the situation, their extension will be decided. Eleven doctors will be for medicine department, 11 for general surgery and surgical intensive care unit, six for radiation and five for other departments such as gynaecology, chest and TB and Ear Nose Throat (ENT).”The tenure of these posts will end on July 31. The hospital, which has admits both Covid and non-Covid patients, is operating with 60% less staff as some doctors, too, are on sick leave.A resident doctor requesting anonymity said, “The hospital has three isolation wards with a total of 30 beds and each ward requires two doctors in every shifts. So, we need 24 doctors for Covid wards and additional eight doctors will be required for fever OPD. Also, this there is a dearth of doctors in the medicine department as most resident doctors from the department have tested positive. Some of the staffers are working extra hours.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tmc-to-hire-39-doctors-for-kalwa-hospital/story-4Zi4DoLqY4eb03U0kN80dO.html
19-05-2020||City||After eliminating Hizb IED expert, oldest surviving terrorist Jehangir Saroori on radar of security forces||After killing Hizb-ul-Mujahideen’s IED expert, Tahir Bhat in Doda, security forces have now launched a manhunt to nab the oldest surviving terrorist, Jehangir Saroori aka Mohammad Amin Bhat as the crackdown against the terror outfit continues in Jammu and Kashmir.“This militant is hiding in the upper reaches of Marwah and Dachhan belt in Kishtwar district adjoining Doda district. He is the oldest surviving terrorist in J&K and carries an award of around ₹50 lakh on his head that was announced by the police and National Investigating Agency,” said a senior police officer, requesting anonymity.He added that though security forces have intensified operations to nab the dreaded terrorist, difficult terrain and lack of technical intelligence were the two major factors that eluded forces of success all these years.“He has been active in Jammu and Kashmir since 1992 and Pakistani handlers glorify him while recruiting Kashmiri youth,” the official said.The officer divulged that even if their “sources” or “assets” get to know about Saroori, the unavailability of transport plays a spoilsport.The officer, who was recently shifted to Kashmir, recalled that Saroori had three associates-- Riyaz aka Hazari, Mudassir and a Gujjar boy Talib with whom he moved around in that area, more specifically in Rennie area.Saroori had been active in Kishtwar, Doda, Ramban and Bhaderwah areas before turning dormant.However, he reactivated his terror activities and was the mastermind behind the killing of BJP state secretary, Anil Parihar and his brother, Ajit Parihar in Kishtwar town in November 2018 followed by the killing of RSS functionary Chandrakant Sharma and his bodyguard in April 2019.As per the NIA chargesheet, Saroori had planned and executed the killing of Parihar brothers to create a divide in communally sensitive Kishtwar town.In October 2018, ₹30 lakh bounty was announced on Jehangir Saroori by the Jammu and Kashmir police for any information leading to his capture. The Kishtwar police had also put up ‘wanted dead or alive’ posters in the region for Saroori and his associates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-eliminating-hizb-ied-expert-oldest-surviving-terrorist-jehangir-saroori-on-radar-of-security-forces/story-hCOsVZtwCt9eDJBddr7qxO.html
19-05-2020||Mumbai||Burial of Covid-19 victims not likely to spread virus: State to HC||Burial of Covid-19 victims is not likely to spread the deadly virus in the vicinity of the cemetery, the Maharashtra government said in a statement submitted to the Bombay high court (HC) on May 17.“It is well established and declared by the World Health Organization (WHO) that the Covid-19 virus is not airborne and hence, transmission of the virus to people staying in the vicinity of the burial ground is highly impossible,” said the statement. The government’s submission was filed in response to a petition by four Bandra residents, challenging an April 9 order of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), identifying three inter-connected Muslim cemeteries in Bandra (West) as approved sites for burial of Covid-19 victims.“The transmission cannot happen unless people in the locality come in direct contact with the dead body brought for burial or cremation,” said the statement, adding, “Direct contact of people staying in the locality with the dead body is impossible as it is wrapped in plastic by hospital staff before being handed over to the relatives.”The statement goes on to explain that the burial is done in strict compliance with directives issued by the government and the health department of BMC.BMC has also filed an affidavit supporting the stand taken by the government. Its affidavit stated that the WHO guidelines on bodies of Covid-19 patients stipulate that except in cases of haemorrhagic fevers (such as Ebola) and cholera, dead bodies are generally not infectious. “Only the lungs of patients with pandemic influenza, if handled improperly during an autopsy, can be infectious. Other than the above, cadavers do not transmit the disease,” reads the statement.The four petitioners said that the three inter-connected Muslim cemeteries are at the heart of Bandra (West) and are surrounded by heavily populated residential areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/burial-of-covid-19-victims-not-likely-to-spread-virus-state-to-hc/story-cn4g3VroVZjmbpk1eV33GO.html
19-05-2020||City||L-G Murmu visits Udhampur railway station to take stock of facilities for returnees||Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor Girish Chandra Murmu on Tuesday visited the Udhampur railway station and took stock of facilities provided to the residents returning to the UT from other states through special trains. Manoj Kumar Dwivedi, commissioner secretary to the government industries and commerce department, who is also the nodal officer for management of return of stranded people at Udhampur, briefed the L-G about various facilities provided to the returnees and procedures involved in the process.He said around 60,000 returnees in 60 special trains at an average of 1,000 passengers per train are expected to be received.Udhampur deputy commissioner Piyush Singla gave a detailed powerpoint presentation about the process involved in reception and dispatch of passengers to their home districts.The DC said the stranded passengers de-board the train and make online registration on the platform on transit management information system. He said nodal officers have been appointed at different levels to ensure efficient working on ground.Murmu asked officials to ensure strict implementation of all SoPs and protocols while bringing back stranded residents. He also emphasised on thermal scanning of passengers to identify the potential COVID-19 positive cases.The L-G underlined the importance of proper disposal of PPE kits with given protocol and also directed officials to ensure availability of food and fans/cooling facility for returnees.He directed mission director, National Health Mission J&K, Bhupinder Kumar, to expedite the process of procurement of more PPE kits and provide it to the district administration. The L-G also enquired about the sample collection process in the district and stressed on maintenance of social distancing to prevent the spread of virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/l-g-murmu-visits-udhampur-railway-station-to-take-stock-of-facilities-for-returnees/story-GTUwg7PkNUqii0DtFUefFP.html
19-05-2020||City||41 contacts of 7 medical shop assistants test positive for Covid-19 in Pune||PUNE: After seven employees of a wholesale medical shop at Sadashiv peth tested positive for Covid-19 (coronavirus) last week, 41 of their 89 contacts have tested positive so far, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) assistant medical officer Dr Vaishali Jadhav said.While the seven employees of the medical shop tested positive on May 16 (Saturday), so far, 89 swab samples of the persons they came in contact with have been tested. Pune city, which is part of a Covid-19 red zone district, has seen 199 deaths and 3,598 positive cases as of May 18.“We have collected about 89 swab samples through contact tracing and 41 have tested positive and remaining negative. The contacts include the shop owners and his family members and the workers and their family members. The contacts have spread across areas. including Sadashiv peth, Bibwewadi, Yerawada, Hadapsar, Dhankawdi, Sinhgad road and Aundh too. As the contact tracing goes on we will find more people and more swab samples will be collected,” Dr Jadhav said. Some of the positive cases are from the Aundh-Baner ward which had no active cases of Covid-19. The discovery of fresh cases could jeopardise the likelihood of a green zone status for this ward. A green zone is declared when no new case of Covid-19 are reported from an area for at least 14 days. The Aundh-Baner ward had reported four positive cases, all of whom had been discharged after being declared as cured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/41-contacts-of-7-medical-shop-assistants-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-pune/story-CYRxhrPY5Kcs9bDXHXROKL.html
19-05-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand Sub-Committee proposes to waive off EMIs for middle-class families, auto drivers||The Sub-Committee of four ministers, formed to formulate strategies related to lockdown in Jharkhand, has proposed to waive off equated monthly instalments (EMIs) of middle-class families and auto drivers.The proposal has been sent to Chief Minister Hemant Soren, requesting him to present it before the Central government. The Sub-Committee, headed by State’s Health Minister Banna Gupta, laid out the proposal during its high-level meeting here on Monday.Click here for full coronavirus coverage“During the lockdown, middle-class families are facing tremendous burden. Also, auto drivers are prohibited from working. Hence, they are not able to repay loans or EMIs. The state government will write to the Centre to waive off EMI, loans and rate of interests for the lockdown period,” said Gupta.Apart from this, many other proposals were also sent to the Chief Minister. The Sub-Committee agreed on increasing the number of ‘Didi Kitchens’ at Panchayat level, bringing back the migrants by trains, buses and even in flights, deploying security guards at quarantine centres and providing ration to rickshaw pullers and slum dwellers among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-sub-committee-proposes-to-waive-off-emis-for-middle-class-families-auto-drivers/story-HXdnpW96u9bM2hfhZC7qKL.html
19-05-2020||City||HP CM asks Punjab, Haryana to help evacuate people from northeast||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur has urged his counterparts in Haryana and Punjab to pitch in for starting a train to evacuate people of the three states stranded in the northeast.In a letter sent to heads of the two states, Thakur sought their assistance in launching a train to bring back the stranded persons. He stated in the communiqué that as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, about 250 Himachal residents, including migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists and students were stranded in the north-eastern states. “Similarly, people of Haryana and Punjab were also stuck there, and since the movement of the stranded Himachalis is not feasible, the three states should make a joint effort to run a common train for their people’s evacuation,” said Thakur adding that the HP government was ready to bear the expenses on proportionate basis.The matter should thus be jointly taken up with India Railways for providing a special train for the return of these people, he said.Meanwhile, in a video conference with the deputy commissioners, SPs and chief medical officers on Tuesday, the CM directed them to ensure regular medical check-up of the people kept in institutional quarantine, besides maintaining proper living conditions at these centres.Thakur said aged people and chronic patients should be provided all the health facilities, and if required, they should be shifted to health institutions.He ordered the district administrations to ensure that prior information is provided to the elected representatives of panchayati raj institutions regarding the arrival of Himachalis from other parts of the country.The CM added that health workers should visit the houses of such persons before their actual arrival, so that their family members could be sensitised about social distancing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hp-cm-asks-punjab-haryana-to-help-evacuate-people-from-northeast/story-QsOudyt1rsmX9K2T5LJh8N.html
19-05-2020||Ranchi||3 new Covid-19 cases reported in Jharkhand, state tally reaches 231||Ranchi (Jharkhand) [India], May 19 (ANI): Three more positive cases of Covid-19 have been reported in Jharkhand, as per information provided by Nitin Madan Kulkarni, State Health Secretary.While two cases were reported from Latehar, one case was reported from Gumla. The total number of Covid-19 positive cases in the state now stands at 231.“Three more Covid-19 positive cases reported in Jharkhand- two from Latehar and one from Gumla. Total number of positive cases in the state stands at 231,” said Kulkarni.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/3-new-covid-19-cases-reported-in-jharkhand-state-tally-reaches-231/story-xAb3kCwsqewtEg8IQXYtWK.html
19-05-2020||City||Himachal CM lauds efforts of Panchayati Raj Institution representatives’ in fight against Covid-19||Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Tuesday lauded the Panchayati Raj Institution (PRI) representatives for their efforts in the fight against Covid-19.While addressing panchayat chiefs of Shimla and Bilaspur districts via video conferencing, Thakur said the PRI representatives have also played a major role in providing face masks and food to the needy during these difficult times.He said most panchayats have done a commendable job in motivating people to maintain social distancing and use face masks while stepping out of their homes.“The PRI representatives have also ensured availability of basic necessities to the migrant labourers,” he added.The CM also hailed the Centre for ₹20 lakh crore economic stimulus packaged to revive the country’s economy. He said the package envisages welfare of all sections of society and Himachal Pradesh will also be immensely benefitted.“₹ 40,000 crore push for MGNREGA will help in generating more employment opportunities in rural areas besides improving developmental infrastructure,” he said.The relief for MSME will also help the industries in this hour of distress, the CM added.He said the state authorities are getting SOS messages from Himachalis stranded in various parts of the country and efforts are being made to bring them back.“However, the large influx of people arriving back has resulted in a sharp increase in number of Covid patients in the state,” he said, adding that prevention and social distancing are the only remedy to curb the spread of virus.He said people coming from other states will have to undergo mandatory home quarantine.“The role of PRI representatives is to ensure that no one jumps the quarantine. If someone does so, they will inform the concerned authorities and the offender will be sent to an institutional quarantine,” the CM said.Rural development and panchayati raj minister Virender Kanwar said till date, five special trains have ferried residents of Himachal stranded in other parts of the country. “Returnees have been sent home after medical screening and it is the duty of PRI representatives to ensure that they do not jump home quarantine,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-cm-lauds-efforts-of-panchayati-raj-institution-representatives-in-fight-against-covid-19/story-AcGKSXkCEs2grmoqNi5n9L.html
19-05-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan’s Covid-19 tally reaches 5,629||The total number of Covid-19 cases reached 5,629 in Rajasthan on Tuesday after 122 new cases and one death was reported in the state.Out of the total number of cases, 3,219 have recovered, 2,271 are active cases, and 139 deaths have been reported.With a single-day jump of 4,970 cases, the Covid-19 count in India breached the one lakh mark on Tuesday.According to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, the total Covid-19 cases in the country reached 1,01,139. As many as 134 deaths were reported due to the disease in the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 3,163.Out of the total confirmed cases, 39,174 have been cured/discharged/migrated so far.This comes two days after the nationwide lockdown was extended till May 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-s-covid-19-tally-reaches-5-629/story-Lx91BF5I4GwWrLBrpzI9xI.html
19-05-2020||City||Shramik special train from Himachal’s Amb to Howrah cancelled due to Cyclone Amphan||The railways has cancelled a Shramik special train scheduled to run from Amb in Himachal Pradesh to Howrah in West Bengal as the east coast braces up for Cyclone Amphan. Una deputy commissioner Sandeep Kumar said the train was to depart from Amb railway station on Wednesday with stranded residents of West Bengal. “More than 1,400 residents of West Bengal had registered themselves for the special train,” he said.The new departure dates will be announced soon, he added.Cyclone Amphan is likely to make a landfall on the West Bengal coast on Wednesday.617 HIMACHALIS RETURN HOMEAs many as 617 residents of Himachal, who were stranded in Maharashtra, returned home on Tuesday in a Shramik special that arrived at Una from Pune.The district administration had made arrangements for screening of the passengers and their further travel to home districts.The DC said among the returnees, 215 were from Kangra, 70 from Una; 68 from Hamirpur; 63 each from Mandi and Shimla; 41 from Solan; 37 from Kullu; 28 from Chamba; 16 from Bilaspur; Nine from Sirmaur and two from Kinnaur.He said two people, one from Uttarakhand and other from Garhshankar in Punjab also arrived onboard the same train.Kumar said the passengers were provided food and juice on their arrival by the Radha Soami Satsang Beas’s Bhadsaali branch.The returnees were sent home in Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) buses and will be institutionally quarantined in their respective districts.RETURNEES THANK HP GOVTHimachal residents, who arrived from Pune on Tuesday expressed gratitude to the state government for facilitating their return.Amit Kumar from Sunni of Shimla district, who works in a hotel at Pune, said he had no hope of returning home.“I was not getting any support at the place I was stranded and my savings were also draining,” he said, adding that he got curfew passes after chief minister Jai Ram Thakur intervened.Another returnee Jyoti, hailing from Jwali area of Kangra district, said the passengers were provided best facilities in the train.“I am overwhelmed and feeling relaxed after reaching home. I want to thank the state government for making it happen,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shramik-special-train-from-himachal-s-amb-to-howrah-cancelled-due-to-cyclone-amphan/story-SP1B9wsjBpjHbYQ73HQ9TN.html
19-05-2020||Patna||Face masks adorned with Madhubani and Manjusha paintings on sale in Patna||Amid COVID-19 outbreak as the demand for face masks increases, folk artists in Patna are making reusable face masks adorned with Madhubani and Manjusha paintings.“We thought we can popularise the art forms while supplying masks to the market. We are using cotton cloth material and price of one mask is Rs 80-100,” Smita Parashar told ANI.She said that they have been working on Madhubani for 25 years and on Manjusha for six years.“We have have been working on Bihar folk art Madhubani for 25 years and on Manjusha for six years. As the government makes efforts to encourage the art, we also came up with the idea of encouraging this art through this initiative,” Parashar said.“Now masks are a part of our daily life and people are also trying to make a style statement through it. So we came up with the idea to paint these with folk art,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/face-masks-adorned-with-madhubani-and-manjusha-paintings-on-sale-in-patna/story-vVKTzDbf73SJWnCIyHNexJ.html
19-05-2020||Pune||41 contacts of 7 medical store employees test positive for Covid-19 in Pune||After seven employees of a wholesale medical store in Pune tested positive for Covid-19 last week, 41 of their 89 contacts tested so far were also found to be infected with the virus, a medical officer at Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) said on Tuesday.The seven employees of the medical shop in Sadashiv Peth area had tested positive for the coronavirus disease on Saturday.“We have collected about 89 swab samples through contact tracing out of which 41 have tested positive as yet and 48 are negative. The contacts include the shop owner, his family members and the workers and their family members. The contacts are spread across areas including Sadashiv Peth, Bibwewadi, Yerawada, Hadapsar, Dhankwadi, Sinhgad road and Aundh,” Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) assistant medical officer Dr Vaishali Jadhav said. As the contact tracing goes on, we will find more people and more swab samples will be collected,” she added. The new cases from Aundh-Baner area, which had no active coronavirus cases, risk the likelihood of the green zone status for this ward.The ward had four positive cases, all of whom were discharged after being cured.Pune city, which is one of the Covid-19 red zone district, has reported 199 deaths and 3,598 positive cases as of May 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/41-contacts-of-7-medical-store-employees-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-pune/story-8eOZMFtb7O4MZMr3HINxXK.html
19-05-2020||City||Kashmir World Film Festival postponed due to Covid-19 lockdown||The fifth edition of the Kashmir World Film Festival (KWFF) – all set to run from June 10-17 – has been postponed because of the coronavirus pandemic.The festival may now take place in August.“At this time of global health crisis, the management has decided to call off the festival till August,” said a statement issued by the management on Tuesday.The seven-day festival is the first of its kind in Kashmir as cinema halls are shut here. It is being held in the city since 2017 and has seen four editions till 2018. The organisers had been working to hold the fifth edition since last year. The festival was also called off in 2019 amid security concerns after the abrogation of Article 370. The festival was being organised in collaboration with the Film and Television Institute of India (FTII), National Film Archives of India (NFAI), Pune, and several sponsors.Mushtaaque Ali Ahmad Khan, a local filmmaker and the festival director said that the aim of organising the festival is to revive the lost film culture in the valley. “Our endeavour is to bring this festival in the list of top ten film festivals of the world which will empower the Kashmiri youth and film enthusiasts,” he said.“Besides screening of films, we have also been holding workshops for media students and film buffs who get a chance to interact with the renowned film stars,” he added.Khan said, “This year too we had received more than a hundred film entries that include local, national and international movies. We had finalised around 40 best films among them”.The festival has received the entries from US, Italy, Spain, Jordan, Iran, Afghanistan and Turkey. Entries for the films in regional languages including Bengali, Malayalam, Bhojpuri, Punjabi, Gujarati, and Assamese have also been received.In the past. the festival has been attended by celebrities like Tabu, Madhur Bhandarkar, Rajit Kapur, Anjum Rajabali, Arunaraje Patil, Komal Nahata and Raj Bansal.There were 15 cinema halls in Kashmir in the ’80s, of which nine were in Srinagar. The famous among them were Broadway, Regal, Neelam, and Palladium in Srinagar. After militancy surfaced, most theatres were turned into camps for security forces, while others were converted into hotels, shopping complexes and even hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kashmir-world-film-festival-postponed-due-to-covid-19-lockdown/story-qrFlVudN1wcYkucoeMHlLO.html
19-05-2020||Kolkata||Mamata confirms participation in Opposition meeting on Friday to discuss Covid crisis||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee Tuesday confirmed her participation in the opposition parties’ virtual meet convened by the Congress to discuss the Covid-19 situation and the impact of the lockdown. The Congress has called a meeting of like-minded parties on Friday to discuss the plight of migrant workers and the changes in labour laws.“Yes, there will be a meeting of opposition parties on Friday evening through videoconferencing to discuss the present Covid situation and the lockdown impact. I will be there,” she told reporters here.Various opposition-ruled states have criticised the Centre over its handling of the migrant crisis.Rendered jobless due to the coronavirus lockdown, which began on March 25, thousands of migrant workers across the country are undertaking long and arduous journeys to their native places on foot, on bicycles or packed into trucks. Many of them have been killed in accidents in different parts of the country. A senior TMC leader said, “The way the Centre had been trying to pin the blame on states for everything is unacceptable. It is due to the Centre’s sudden imposition of lockdown, the country is facing this migrant crisis. “Like-minded opposition parties will meet via video conference on Friday at 3 pm to discuss the next steps that could be taken to deal with the crisis in a better way.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/mamata-confirms-participation-in-opposition-meeting-on-friday-to-discuss-covid-crisis/story-xcptrAmN75rPPtCm6hHLIM.html
19-05-2020||City||Three more Covid-19 patients recover in Himachal, active cases come down to 38||Three more Covid-19 patients recovered in Himachal Pradesh on Tuesday, taking the total number of those cured in the state to 45.The cured patients include two members of a family from Jhirballa village of Shahpur division. The 25-year-old youth who worked as courier delivery boy in Delhi returned home in April end and was tested positive on May 8. Two days later, his 19-year-old sister, who had come in his direct contact, also tested positive.The third patient, a man from the Baba-Baroh area of Nagrota Bagwan subdivision having travel history to Delhi was tested positive on May 9.“Three patients, who were undergoing treatment at a Covid-care centre at Baijnath have been discharged after being tested negative for the virus,” said GD Gupta, chief medical officer (CMO), Kangra.“They have been placed under seven-day quarantine and will be sent home if their test negative for the virus on completion of the observation period,” he added.With three recoveries, the active cases have come down to 38. In the last three days, a total of nine people have been cured in the state.State sees biggest one-day spike in Covid-19 casesEarlier on Monday, Himachal had witnessed 10 new Covid-19 cases—the biggest single-day spike in the state.Five cases alone were reported from Hamirpur, three from Bilaspur and one each from Kangra and Chamba. All except the Kangra and Chamba patients had travel history.Previously, the biggest single-day spike in the state was recorded on April 7 when nine people were tested positive for Covid-19 in Una district.To date, the state has recorded a total of 90 Covid-19 cases. Three people have died, 45 patients have been cured and 38 are active cases. Four patients, who migrated out of the state for treatment, are said to have recovered.Hill state on the edgeMore than 3,500 people have arrived in the state from Mumbai, Pune, Chennai and Goa in the last week.All the returnees have been institutionally quarantined. Many of them have flu-like symptoms and their samples have been sent for testing.It is worth mentioning that more than 80% of cases that have been reported in the state after May 4 have travel history from the outside state, mostly Delhi and Mumbai. Since April 26, the state had opened its borders to facilitate the return of stranded residents, over 1 lakh people have returned and 60,000 more have applied for movement passes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-more-covid-19-patients-recover-in-himachal-active-cases-come-down-to-38/story-MWGhQftATsVW5OsTHW6NjJ.html
19-05-2020||City||Decision regarding reducing fee of private schools in a week: HP education minister||Himachal Pradesh education minister Suresh Bhardwaj on Tuesday said the state government is serious about reducing fee of private schools and decision regarding it will be taken within a week. While addressing mediaperson at the state secretariat, Bhardwaj said principal secretary, education, KK Pant has returned from leave and has been asked to prepare a proposal keeping both parties in mind. “Private school authorities have been directed not to pressurise parents to pay the fee until fresh orders are issued,” he added.The minister said the matter has also been discussed in the cabinet meeting and chief minister Jai Ram Thakur has asked officials to prepare a proposal for the benefit of private schools and parents. He said holidays in colleges have been declared till June 10. “Geography examination of Class 12 will be taken after the end of lockdown. Answer sheets of Classes 12 and 10 are being checked and Class 10 results will be declared soon,” Bhardwaj said.Himachal Pradesh University has been asked to prepare examination schedule after assessing the present situation. Holidays have been declared in schools till May 31, he said.The decision to open schools will be taken as per the next guidelines of the central government, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/decision-regarding-reducing-fee-of-private-schools-in-a-week-hp-education-minister/story-6zfSVi1yKzR9mKWZk8nqaP.html
19-05-2020||Kolkata||Cyclone Amphan: Rapid response teams to keep eye on tiger movement in Sundarbans||With cyclone ‘Amphan’ set to lash coastal areas of Bengal on May 20, the forest department on Tuesday formed rapid response teams to ensure that tigers from Sundarbans in South 24 Parganas district do not stray into nearby human settlements after the landfall.Chief Wildlife Warden Ravi Kant Sinha said a control room has been set up at Gosaba area in the district by the forest department to monitor the situation in the mangrove jungles 24x7.The department’s central control room in Salt Lake area will be in constant touch with the Gosaba unit and keep a close watch on wildlife movement in the forest.If there are attempts by tigers to stray from the core reserve area into the contiguous villages, we will be able to notice that from the two control rooms and our rapid response teams will take steps to send back the animal to its habitat,” he explained.The response teams have been deployed in Sajnekhali and Jharkhali areas of South 24 Parganas with tranquiliser guns, net and speed boats to negotiate the creeks crisscrossing the forest.Asked if there were chances of depletion in tiger prey base such as the deer population if the cyclone ravages the coastal areas of the state, Sinha said, “Measures will be taken depending on the situation.” The number of tigers in Sunderbans, the world’s largest mangrove forest, stands at 96 -- with 73 being in the core reserve area and 23 in the adjacent parts.A forest department official said residents, especially the fishermen community, in Gosaba, Dayapur, Balidwip, Sajnekhali, Pakhirala, among other nearby areas have been asked to exercise caution while venturing out.“We are using microphones to warn people against venturing out into the tiger reserve to catch crabs, shrimps or collect honey,” Sinha added.Amphan is expected to make landfall on Wednesday afternoon between Digha in West Bengal and Hatia island in Bangladesh as an extremely severe cyclonic storm with wind speeds ranging up to 195 kmph.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/cyclone-amphan-rapid-response-teams-to-keep-eye-on-tiger-movement-in-sundarbans/story-VsA9zbdaR6jNb7YNSfHbdN.html
19-05-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra divided into red and non-red zones||The Maharashtra government on Tuesday announced categorisation of various areas into red and non-red zones for the purpose of allowing or restricting business and other activities in view of coronavirus pandemic.The government on Tuesday issued new guidelines which would come into effect from May 22. During the earlier phases of lockdown, the state (as other parts of the country) were divided into red, orange and green zones.Click here for full coronavirus coverageThe Municipal corporations in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (which includes Mumbai, Thane and surrounding towns), as well as civic bodies of Pune, Solapur, Aurangabad, Malegaon, Nashik, Dhule, Jalgaon, Akola and Amravati fall in the red zone, it said.All these areas have high number of coronavirus cases.All the remaining areas of the state fall in non-red zone, an official statement said.The government had declared on Sunday that lockdown will continue till May 31.In both red and non-red zones, municipal/district authorities will demarcate containment zones.Municipal commissioners and district collectors will have the power to identify residential colonies, mohallas, slums, buildings or groups of buildings, lanes, wards, police station areas, villages or small clusters of villages as containment zones.But for declaring larger areas, such as a whole taluka or municipal corporation, as containment zones, they will have to consult the Chief Secretary of the state.In containment zones only essential activities will be allowed. No movement of people in and out of these zones will be allowed except for medical emergencies and maintaining supply of essential goods.Shops, malls, commercial establishments and industries in the red zone, which are nor allowed to operate, can remain open between 9 am to 5 pm only for upkeep and maintenance of materials, furniture, plant and machinery and pre-monsoon protection of property and goods.No production and commercial activity will be allowed, the guidelines said.However, home delivery from restaurants and kitchens will be allowed.In non-red zones, no permission will be needed from any government authority to undertake or perform permitted activities.Sports complexes, stadia and other public open spaces will be permitted to remain open for individual exercises but group activities and events involving spectators will not be allowed.Physical exercises and other activities will be allowed provided social distancing is followed.Markets and shops in non-red zones will remain open from 9 am to 5 pm, and if there is crowding or violation of social distancing norms, they will be closed down, the guidelines warned.In red zones, all government offices including sub-registrar and Regional Transport Offices, offices of university/colleges for non-teaching work, staff involved in evaluation of answer sheets, declaration of results and development of e-content will function at five per cent strength or with minimum of 10 employees, which ever is more, the guidelines said.As of Monday evening, Maharashtra had recorded 35,058 coronavirus cases, the highest in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-divided-into-red-and-non-red-zones/story-Smy2muaFTQSDIjB5yUsjQI.html
19-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi Traffic police issues over 1 lakh notices for offences since first phase of Covid lockdown||The Delhi Traffic Police has issued over one lakh notices through SMS and speed post for compoundable offences captured on camera since the first phase of coronavirus lockdown, officials said on Tuesday.  The traffic police has issued 1,00,436 notices through SMS and another 80 notices through speed post from March 25 to May 17, during which a nationwide lockdown was imposed in the country to contain the spread of COVID-19, they said. During the same period, 7,998 notices were sent for violations regarding improper parking which were registered through the ‘violation on camera app’, officials said.  Traffic police officials said in the coming weeks, they would be prioritising action against improper parking and lane violation to decongest driving space on the road and to make driving safer.Joint Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Narendra Singh Bundela said to protect the health of its personnel and to ensure public safety, the traffic police has opted for electronic enforcement of traffic over physical enforcement. It is now focusing on contactless traffic enforcement drive with maximum use of camera-based violation detections through ‘violation on camera app’, traffic sentinel, red light violation detection and tripod mounted laser speed gun cameras.   “We have also distributed immunity booster kits, encouraged practice of yoga among traffic staff to ensure good health. With the help of public traffic ranges, the department had also arranged food and distributed mask and sanitizers to the needy,” he said.  Counselling session on coronavirus has also been organised for traffic staff through webinars with the help of doctors from prominent hospitals, he said.  The Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCPs) of each traffic range have been nominated as Nodal Health Officer for briefing and sensitizing the staff regarding prevention and protection from COVID-19, he added.  Besides, the traffic police in association with the Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM), Indraprastha Gas Ltd and Eicher Motor Ltd organized a road safety and corona sensitization campaign for commercial vehicle drivers at Burari ground and more than 3000 kits were also distributed to them, the senior officer said.  Safety kits were also distributed to drivers at the border areas by the concerned DCP traffic of south, outer, west and east range, he added.For disposing of camera-based traffic violations, virtual court was established on May 13 which will further strengthen the traffic discipline in the city and till May 18, it had received 32,722 non-compoundable offences for disposal, officials added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-traffic-police-issues-over-1-lakh-notices-for-offences-since-first-phase-of-covid-lockdown/story-DZT9ZZmzyP6ifkQcHJ0VaJ.html
19-05-2020||Kolkata||Cyclone Amphan: 3 lakh people evacuated, moved to relief shelters, says West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee||At least three lakh people have been evacuated from coastal areas of West Bengal in view of the impending super cyclonic storm ‘Amphan’ and all steps have been taken to deal with any eventuality arising out of it, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said on Tuesday. Banerjee said she and senior state government officials are directly monitoring the situation and announced several helpline numbers.“All precautionary measures are taken to deal with any eventuality arising out of the super cyclone. I had a word with Union Home Minister Amit Shah regarding it. At least three lakh people have been evacuated from three coastal districts of the state and moved to relief shelters,” she told a press conference here.The evacuees have been shifted to cyclone shelters and all other precautions are being taken, Banerjee said.The chief minister said she will talk to the Railways not to run any ‘Shramik Special’ trains to bring back migrant labourers to the state from Wednesday till Thursday morning as a precautionary measure.‘Amphan’ is expected to cross West Bengal-Bangladesh coasts between Digha in West Bengal and Hatiya islands in Bangladesh on May 20 as a very severe cyclonic storm after losing some steam as it approaches landfall with a maximum sustained wind speed of 155 to 165 kmph gusting to 180 kmph. The meteorological department, which has issued an “orange message” for West Bengal, has warned of extensive damage in Kolkata, Hooghly, Howrah, South and North 24 Parganas and East Midnapore districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/cyclone-amphan-3-lakh-people-evacuated-moved-to-relief-shelters-says-west-bengal-cm-mamata-banerjee/story-dC72rNqD4PEvZhEtGes4FK.html
19-05-2020||Chandigarh||Lockdown 4.0: Capt tells Punjab Police to ensure strict compliance of safety norms||With a large set of new relaxations being effected from Tuesday, Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh has directed the state police to ensure strict compliance of Covid-19 safety protocols, including social distancing and wearing of masks.The next 25-30 days would be extremely crucial for containing the spread of coronavirus disease in view of the sudden opening up of the economy, as well as office/commercial activity, after a 55-day curfew, the chief minister warned.He directed the Punjab Police to continue with their hard work and commitment to maintain the high levels of adherence to protocols and restrictions that had helped the state keep the contagion under check.“We cannot let all the benefits of all the work done by you in the past 55 days and sacrifices made by the people of Punjab go to waste due to any complacency on our part now,” Amarinder asserted.It may be recalled that the CM had last week announced lifting of the curfew with effect from May 18, but with the continuation of lockdown in the state till May 30. In line with the guidelines issued by the Centre, the state has also allowed a host of relaxations in the non-containment zones, with local buses also starting to ply in a phased manner from Tuesday.Acting on the CM’s directives, DGP Dinkar Gupta has asked all CPs and SSPs across the state to register FIRs and impound vehicles or issue challans in case of any violation of the lockdown restrictions. “We should send a strong message to enforce the various restrictions stringently,” the DGP told his officers, citing the chief minister’s instructions.All SSPs and CPs have been asked to ensure compulsory wearing of masks by everyone stepping out of their homes, said the DGP. They have been directed to enforce strict social distancing not just in shops, offices, banks and liquor outlets, but also in vehicles (car/scooters/motorbikes), as well as public/private transport buses. Under the new relaxed guidelines, these vehicles can ply within the state, except in the containment zones, subject to strict protocols.Capt has also ordered strict enforcement of the night curfew, which bars people from moving out, except for medical or essential needs, between 7pm and 7am, in accordance with the Centre’s guidelines for Lockdown 4.0.The relaxations have been provided to the people for their ease and convenience as they had suffered immense hardships during the curfew period, the CM said while making it clear that no deviation from protocols and restrictions would be tolerated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/lockdown-4-0-capt-tells-punjab-police-to-ensure-strict-compliance-of-safety-norms/story-MoVwcKdJUl3Ka5PzYNYpgO.html
19-05-2020||Chandigarh||Robbery of Rs 10.92 lakh at IndusInd Bank branch in Amritsar||AMRITSAR: Three armed men with their faces covered robbed Rs 10.92 lakh from the branch of IndusInd Bank at Sohian Kalan village in Majitha sub division on Tuesday.Police said the incident took place at 1.20pm when the three men barged into the bank and held the staff hostage by tying their hands and feet with ropes before stealing the cash from the strong room.Majitha police station house officer Kapil Kaushal said only branch manager Karan Kumar and a peon, Lovepreet Singh, were present when the incident occurred.“According to the manager, the three men had parked their white car outside the branch before holding the office boy and him captive and looting the cash,” Kaushal said.Efforts are on to identify the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/robbery-of-rs-10-92-lakh-at-indusind-bank-branch-in-amritsar/story-VKX9zAf4NhxNc8i0IryDyN.html
19-05-2020||Kolkata||Cyclone Amphan: One lakh shifted to safety in Bengal, masks given to evacuees||The West Bengal government has evacuated one lakh people from the coastal districts and is in the process of shifting 1.5 lakh more as super-cyclone Amphan nears the shores of the state, a minister said on Tuesday.The state has put the coastal districts of East Midnapore, North 24 Parganas and South 24 Parganas, including the Sundarbans -- home to the majestic Royal Bengal Tiger -- on high alert, Disaster Management Minister Javed Khan said.“We have already evacuated around one lakh people, mostly from the low-lying areas, and set a target of evacuating 1.5 lakh more by Tuesday night.“The evacuees have been put up at cyclone shelters, schools and colleges. Our experience in tackling cyclones Fani and Bulbul last year will be put to good use,” he said.The government, in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, has distributed more than two lakh masks among the evacuees and personal protective equipment (PPE) kits have been handed out to the State Disaster Relief Force (SDRF) personnel deployed in the vulnerable areas, a senior official said.“Around 4,000 SDRF personnel are monitoring the evacuation operation. The entire fishermen community has been asked not to venture out to the sea for the next two days and those who were at sea have been asked to return,” the official of the Disaster Management department said.Relief materials, dry food and tarpaulin have been dispatched to the coastal areas, he added.“We are taking all possible measures to tackle contingencies, if any. Special control rooms have been set up to monitor the situation. We are giving the necessary instructions through public address systems,” the official said.Quick response teams comprising trained civil defence volunteers and vehicles with safety gears have already reached the districts. The State Emergency Operation Centre, functioning at the secretariat, is in constant touch with the exigency units set up at the districts, the official said.Along with the NDRF and SDRF personnel, fire service teams have also been positioned in the vulnerable areas.For the post-cyclone restoration work, engineers of the Public Works Department and officials of the Rural Development and Water Resources departments have been asked to kept teams ready for an immediate repair of the damaged roads, the Disaster Management department official said.Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had earlier said the NDRF and SDRF personnel were prepared to deal with eventualities and rescue those hit by the cyclone.“We will be monitoring the situation for cyclone ‘Amphan’ 24X7. Chief Secretary Rajiva Sinha, Home Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay and the secretary of the Disaster Management department will keep a close watch on the developments,” she had said.Cyclone Amphan (pronounced UM-PUN) is expected to make landfall on Wednesday afternoon between Digha in West Bengal and Hatia island in Bangladesh as an extremely severe cyclonic storm with wind speeds ranging up to 195 kmph. PTI PNT RMS RC||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/cyclone-amphan-one-lakh-shifted-to-safety-in-bengal-masks-given-to-evacuees/story-0u4zb0UCYNhkNGLf0CM6fO.html
19-05-2020||City||Covid-19 cases rise to 3,928 in Thane; death toll reaches 121||The number of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra’s Thane district rose to 3,928 after 244 more people tested positive for the disease on Monday, the district administration said.The district also reported seven more deaths due to coronavirus, including six from Navi Mumbai, taking the toll to 121, it said in a release.Of the 244 new Covid-19 cases, 91 were reported from Thane city, 74 from Navi Mumbai, 30 from Kalyan-Dombivali municipal limits and the rest from other parts of the district, the release said.A one-month-old girl from Kalyan, another girl aged one year from Thane city, and six other children in the age group of 4 to 10 years were among those who tested positive for the infection on Monday, it said.So far, areas under the Thane Municipal Corporation limits have reported 1,269 cases, Navi Mumbai-1,264, Kalyan- Dombivali-530, Mira Bhayander-359, Thane rural-185, Ulhasnagar-126, Badlapur-116, Bhiwandi Nizampur-43 and Ambernath-36, it said.The neighbouring Palghar districthas so far reported a total of 389cases and 16deaths, a release from the district administration said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-cases-rise-to-3-928-in-thane-death-toll-reaches-121/story-BeEYhywbQ5RxtA1fcGthRI.html
19-05-2020||Delhi||FB, Google, Twitter get court’s notice over removal of groups like Bois Locker room||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday issued notices to the Centre, Facebook, Google and Twitter over an application seeking removal of groups like ‘Bois locker room’ to protect children, reported news agency ANI.The court had on Monday directed the city police to speed up its investigation of Bois Locker Room -- a social media group in which obscene messages and morphed pictures of underage girls were allegedly shared.The police have arrested an adult and a minor for allegedly morphing photographs and circulating obscene messages on an Instagram chat group. The members of the group are allegedly students of at least five prominent schools in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/facebook-google-and-twitter-get-delhi-hc-s-notice-seeking-removal-of-groups-like-bois-locker-room/story-9ME8RWH7BBxPVEeX70LG7H.html
19-05-2020||Chandigarh||Four booked for violating lockdown in Himachal’s Kullu district||Four persons have been booked for violating curfew/lockdown and misleading the police in Kullu district.The accused have been identified as Naresh Kumar and Jameet Singh of Rakh in Kangra, Vijay Kumar of Totarani village in Kangra, Rajender Kumar of Kharkibehar village in Kullu.The accused traveled to Bajaura in Kullu district via Kataula road during curfew relaxation time and were stopped by the police. On being asked where they were headed, the accused told the cops they had come from a nearby place to do some purchasing in the market.However, the police were not convinced and continued interrogating them. The accused then revealed that they had come from Kangra district. Earlier too, they had misled the police in Mandi district by claiming to be locals.Kullu superintendent of police Gaurav Singh confirmed the report and said the police were conducting the investigation.A case under sections 188, 269 and 270 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 51 of the Natural Disaster Management Act has been registered against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/four-booked-for-violating-lockdown-in-himachal-s-kullu-district/story-yXlLrxZU4tAGtl1eyuqdOO.html
19-05-2020||Bangalore||127 new Covid-19 cases in Karnataka, toll rises to 40||In a biggest ever spike in Karnataka, 127 Covid-19 cases were confirmed, taking the total number of infections to 1,373 in the state, where three fatalities have been reported, taking the toll to 40, the health department said on Tuesday. Of the 127 newly confirmed cases, 91 are those with inter state travel history from neighboring Maharashtra, the department said in its mid-day situation update. The remaining include cases with inter state travel history from Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat; also those who are contacts of patients already tested positive, those from containment zones in Davangere, Vijayapura, Bengaluru urban, inter district travel history to Davangere, and history of Influenza Like Illness (ILI) and SARI. Out of the fresh cases, 62 are from Mandya, Davangere 19, Shivamogga 12, Kalaburagi 11, Bengaluru urban 6, Udupi and Uttara Kannada 4, Hassan 3, Chikkamagaluru 2, and one each from Gadag, Vijayapura, Yadgir and Chitradurga. With 40 deaths and 530 discharges, there are 802 active corona cases in the state. The three deaths include- a 61-year-old man from Ballari, who was diagnosed with SARI and had travel history to Bengaluru. He was a known case of IHD (Ischemic heart disease) with recent history of cardiac surgery. He died today at designated hospital in the district and tested positive for Covid-19. Also, a 65-year-old man from Vijayapura, a known case of HTN (Hypertension), DM (Diabetes mellitus), and IHD was brought dead on May 18 to designated hospital in the district and tested positive for Covid-19. A 54-year-old man from Bengaluru, known case of IHD, was admitted to private hospital in the city and died on May 18. He tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/127-new-covid-19-cases-in-karnataka-toll-rises-to-40/story-nHFh6vTpCwV6ejLSKFcPSK.html
19-05-2020||Chandigarh||House gutted in fire in Shimla district, no casualties reported||A 70-year-old wooden house was gutted in fire in Chirgaon, Shimla, on Monday. However, no loss of life was reported. The house belonged to Duni Chand and had 12 rooms. However, it had been empty for one-and-a-half years. The incident took place around 6pm in Badiara village. Police and two fire tenders reached the spot and put out the fire with the assistance of local residents. SHO Chirgaon Ashvani Thakur said an investigation was underway.The cause of fire and loss incurred are being ascertained. This is the fifth time fire has broken out in Chrigaon tehsil in the last two months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/house-gutted-in-fire-in-shimla-district-no-casualties-reported/story-SV8dOk5UEivphTDERSXWhM.html
19-05-2020||Chandigarh||Cache of illegal liquor seized from SAD leader’s tubewell in Patiala||Days after the Punjab Police busted an illegal liquor bottling plant being run by Congress leaders, another cache of extra neutral alcohol (ENA) was seized from the tubewell of a Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader on Monday night.The tubewell is owned by former SAD panchayat samiti member Darshan Singh of Pabri village.The Punjab Police and the excise department took joint action against the liquor mafia. Patiala superintendent of police Mandeep Singh Sidhu said, “Acting on a tip off, police under the command of Ghanour deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Manpreet Singh raided the tubewell-cum-storeroom and unearthed a sizeable quantity of neutral ethanol in 20 drums and few empty drums in Pabri village under the Kheri Gandian police station in Patiala.An excise officer was also called on the spot.A case was registered and an investigation is in progress. ENA is the raw material used to make liquor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cache-of-illegal-liquor-seized-from-sad-leader-s-tubewell-in-patiala/story-u3WxUq6Y3LLJ8057z3oooK.html
19-05-2020||Lucknow||Old video lands Ravi Kishan in row, he says it’s a conspiracy||At a time when lakhs of migrant workers are returning home on foot, trucks, buses and trains, political opponents have referred to an old video of Gorakhpur MP and actor Ravi Kishan to brand him as anti- labour and anti-poor.Alleging a conspiracy, the MP has said the video dates back to 2017 and added that his remarks were misconstrued. In the video shot inside a moving car, the actor is apparently heard rebuking fellow party workers for getting him to travel in an overcrowded car and forcing him ‘to smell the odour emanating from sweat’. “Paseena itna mahakta hai na. Ab kya kaha jaye. (Sweat gives off an odour. What can one say!),” the actor is heard saying as he shouts at the person filming the video, asking him to turn off the camera.It’s not clear from the video if Ravi Kishan was referring to the sweat of migrant labourers. Nevertheless, the opposition parties have linked his statement to migrant workers, branding him as anti-labourer and anti-poor. “Ravi Kishan is an actor who lives in luxury. He dislikes the sweat of poor migrants who play an important role in building India,” Samajwadi Party (SP) leader Prahlad Yadav said.Reacting to the controversy, Congress district general secretary Anwar Hussain said, “Honourable MP, it’s disheartening that you are mocking blood and sweat of labourers, who form the base of the Indian economy.” Ravi Kishan had won the Gorakhpur Lok Sabha seat in 2019, defeating his nearest rival Rambhual Nishad of the Samajwadi Party by a margin of over three lakh votes. Following criticism on the social media, Ravi Kishan gave a clarification and posted a video from Mumbai.“Nowadays, a video against me is going viral under a conspiracy by opposition people who are frustrated with the good work of the BJP government. The video is old, dates back to the 2017 UP election,” the MP said, hitting back at his opponents for misconstruing his statement.” “They don’t understand Bhojpuri well. By ‘mahak’, I meant fragrance, not odour. People who know Ravi Kishan knows how much I respect the poor and what I have done for them. I myself reached this place after a lot of struggle and thus know the value of the sweat of labour,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/old-video-lands-ravi-kishan-in-row-he-says-it-s-a-conspiracy/story-kR1DUUPRXRPOUWuvRv9EDO.html
19-05-2020||Lucknow||Docs, health staff quarantined after 2 injured migrants tested positive in Bahraich||Five doctors and half a dozen health staff of Bahraich Medical College were quarantined after two of the 33 injured migrants, whom the health staff treated four days back, tested positive for Covid-19, said chief medical superintendant (CMS) Bahraich Medical College Dr DK Singh on Monday. He said contact list of infected migrants was being prepared and all the persons who came into contact of the infected migrants would be home quarantined. Singh said now the total number of Covid-19 positive cases has increased to 48 from 42. Meanwhile, district magistrate Shambhu Kumar declared Narhargora village of Tejwapur block as containment zone after Covid-19 positive case reported from the village on Monday. Movement of all vehicles except medical emergency has been stopped with immediate effect in the area till further orders. The DM along with other administrative officials visited the village and discussed the arrangements in the hotspot area.District health education information officer (DHEIO) Ravindra Tyagi said there were 48 Covid-19 positive cases in the district out of which 18 patients had been discharged. He said at present there were 30 active positive cases in Bahraich. Tyagi said a total 1677 samples had been sent so far out of which 1463 were tested negative and 48 were tested as positive while report of 166 samples is pending.SHARIQ RAIS SIDDIQUI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/docs-health-staff-quarantined-after-2-injured-migrants-tested-positive-in-bahraich/story-avlSH9kvSidKBHAb4PbA7K.html
19-05-2020||Lucknow||UP: Stopped from cycling home, migrants wait for hours in buses||Migrant workers returning home via Lucknow had to wait for hours in buses to continue their journey further, as per the fresh exercise started by the Uttar Pradesh government.The district administration on the direction of the state government continued its exercise to move migrants on buses from the state capital’s Dr Shakuntala Mishra National Rehabilitation University. Migrants entering the district borders on bicycles and on foot were stopped at various places and moved to the temporary transit centre at the rehab university.Due to lack of coordination among officials, the migrant workers claimed they were forced to wait for long. At a toll booth on Lucknow Agra Expressway, a group of migrant workers travelling on cycles were made to wait for over five hours before being shifted to the rehab University.“We were made to wait inside the bus parked in open. It became too hot inside the bus but we were asked to remain inside,” said Bhole Ram Verma, a migrant worker returning from Jhunjhunu, Rajasthan to Basti in eastern UP. Migrants faced similar problems on Faizabad, Kanpur and Sulatanpur road.Officials said delay in moving migrant workers to their destinations was because buses wait to fill up migrants travelling on the same route. “We are trying to move migrants from Faizabad road as soon as possible. The system will be further streamlined in coming days,” additional district magistrate (Trans Gomti) Vishwa Bhushan Mishra said. “For their safety at various entry points in the state capital we are stopping migrants who are arriving on foot or seen travelling by bicycles or trucks,” he said. Officials claimed nearly 20 buses were deployed to move 1200 migrants from Faizabad road to rehab university.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-stopped-from-cycling-home-migrants-wait-for-hours-in-buses/story-2ACgGBmsVnCYT7eXmZGX5K.html
19-05-2020||Lucknow||UP: Migrants burning their feet, hole in pocket to reach their homes||In the grip of poverty due to the lockdown, thousands of migrant labourers are on the road, returning to their respective homes either by bicycles, hitch-hiking or walking. This is happening because the hapless migrants, stuck in various states, have lost their jobs and also hope to get them back in the prevailing circumstances. They are so desperate to reach home that many of them started their journey on foot while some exhausted their savings and a few borrowed to book a truck or other vehicles. Despite the government’s efforts to arrange vehicles to transport them, the labourers can be seen moving on the road. “Who wants to step out in such scorching heat. The government says ‘jahan ho vahin raho’ (stay where you are) but how can one live without food and money,” asked one Dinesh Kumar Gupta, who was on his way to Siddharthnagar district. He was stopped by police at Khurramnagar crossing on Sitapur road and assured that his travel arrangements would be made. All vehicles at Kamta crossing in Lucknow are east-bound. Buses, trucks auto-rickshaws, motorbikes and bicycles are all carrying them home. Gorakhpur, Basti, Kushinagar, Gonda—all east UP districts—are their destinations. Some have to travel further to Patna, Madhubani and Darbhanga in Bihar. A few have to go beyond till West Bengal.Sitting in a cramped auto-rickshaw one Sukumi Bano was looking for water. Bano worked as a housemaid in a high rise complex in South Delhi. Her employers gave her some money last month but refused to help further. With no hope of joining work, she decided to return to her village in Madhubani with four other housemaids in the auto-rickshaw owned by her husband. “The the journey is very hard but we had no other option. I don’t know what will happen to us. All I can think of now is home,” she said.One construction worker Lallan Prasad, 55, of Bihar’s Motihari district said he had gone to Jammu on March 5. “I stayed without food for four days after I exhausted all my savings. I borrowed some money from a contractor and reached Delhi and got a private bus that will drop me at Gorakhpur. I paid Rs 1000 for the journey,” said Prasad.Gopal Singh is among the 10 persons who are on their way to Bihar’s Darbhanga district. He is annoyed with the Bihar government. “They left us to die,” alleged Gopal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-migrants-burning-their-feet-hole-in-pocket-to-reach-their-homes/story-qhOqIiAvHDGR1A4bs06tyM.html
19-05-2020||Lucknow||Draw plan for permissible economic, other activities: Yogi||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday said a work plan about permissible economic and various other activities should be prepared for different zones in Uttar Pradesh in accordance with the union government’s new advisory.He also said the final touches should be given to implement the action plan to get the maximum benefit from the Centre’s special economic package of Rs 20 lakh crore.Yogi Adityanath was presiding over a high level meeting convened to review the lockdown-4 situation and arrival of migrants.He said the state government had assured safe and dignified return of all the migrant labourers to their homes. A list of UP’s migrant labourers should be made available to the state government by respective states to ensure their safe return, he said.Yogi Adityanath said 590 Shramik Special trains carrying migrant workers had reached the state in the past one week. Besides, 12,000 buses were deployed for migrant workers. He also said 200 additional buses were kept at the disposal of every district magistrate in 75 districts, taking the total number of additional buses deployed to 15,000. There should be two drivers in every bus, the chief minister said.He said officials should ensure that no one walked or travelled by bike, three-wheeler or any unsafe vehicle. Trains and buses were bringing migrant labourers home without any charge, the chief minister added. He said food and drinking water should be made available to migrant labourers in the border areas, toll plazas, expressways and main crossings in the state.Community kitchens should keep running to provide food to migrant workers, the chief minister said, adding that no one should go hungry.He said all UPSRTC buses should be regularly sanitised. Transport department should ensure effective monitoring in this connection, the chief minister said.He also said regional transport officers and ARTOs should ensure regular patrolling to avoid road accidents. The police should intensify patrolling and use public address systems for better management, he suggested.The chief minister said pulse oximeter machines should be made available at every quarantine centre. All the ventilators should be made functional in all the Covid-19 hospitals, he added. Monitoring and vigilance committees should remain active and ensure social distancing, Adityanath said.He also said district magistrates should ensure that crowds did not assemble at any point in their district. Senior officers should visit wheat procurement centres, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/draw-plan-for-permissible-economic-other-activities-yogi/story-QDliZPK7ecnt76UOliFIbM.html
19-05-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand govt allows more economic activities in lockdown 4.0||The Jharkhand government on Monday permitted industrial units to resume operations, opening of retail liquor stores and book and hardware shops in non-containment zones in the fourth phase of the coronavirus lockdown.After a discussion on the new guidelines of the Centre and keeping in mind the situation of the state, some more areas have been relaxed, Chief Minister Hemant Soren said. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe state government has allowed opening of godowns, warehouses, shops selling hardware, construction-related items, stationery, retail outlets of telecom companies and service centres of mobiles, according to an official order. Shops selling TV, IT-related products like computers and consumer electrical products like refrigerators, air conditioners, air coolers have also been allowed to open in the state, except in municipal corporation areas. Private offices, e-commerce (both essential and non-essential), retail liquor shops, intra-district and inter-district movement of taxies on hire is also permitted in the lockdown. “All activities permitted prior to this order shall continue to be permitted like agriculture-related activities, movement of goods (essential and non-essential) and the like,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-govt-allows-more-economic-activities-in-lockdown-4-0/story-LdpMNiq1KVEEUcgqbLmNdN.html
19-05-2020||Lucknow||‘I lost my job, escaped accidents, but made it back’||The return of Brij Kishore Ahirwar, 45, and his family to his home district Jhansi in Uttar Pradesh from Haryana’s Bahadurgarh town was punctuated by hardship, loss of savings, accidents and other trials and tribulations. Nevertheless, they made it back in the shadow of the Covid-19 pandemic.It was six years ago that Brij Kishore left his home village Gichauli in Jhansi district in 2014 on getting a job in a tiles factory in Bahadurgarh.He worked hard to establish himself in the distant town. Thereafter, he took two rooms on rent in Shakti Nagar locality there to shift his wife and three children. The children got admission in a local school and his wife worked as a domestic help in the colony nearby to make ends meet. Besides, he managed to send some money to his parents in the village. For some years, the family was content with urban life. Then, the Covid-19 pandemic jolted everyone out of their comfort zone. After the nationwide lockdown came into force on March 25, the factory owner closed the unit and told the labourers to wait till the government relaxed the restrictions. Brij Kishore’s wife Chunni was also asked not to visit households for domestic work. The family purchased food grains and other edible items with their meagre savings.After the second lockdown came into force, the landlord started putting pressure on him to pay rent or vacate the rooms. By this time, the factory owner had shifted to Delhi. There was no sign of the factory re-opening as the administration tightened the lockdown as the coronavirus spread in Bahadurgarh, Brij Kishore said.Their patience started wearing thin, when the government announced the third phase of the lockdown. Again, there was no sign of the factory reopening. Their savings diminished fast and hunger was palpable. On May 4, the family decided to leave for their native village. “I spoke to a truck driver who was transporting wheat from Haryana and Punjab to Uttar Pradesh. He told us he will charge Rs 2,000 per person. After I pleaded with him, he reduced the amount to Rs 1,500 per person,” Brij Kishore said.“To arrange the money, I sold our utensils, gas cylinder, TV set and other items to the landlord. We also sold the grain and flour to local labourers. I handed over Rs 7,500 to the truck driver on May 7. He told me to accompany him to Sangrur in Punjab to transport goods. My family was told to wait on the highway. For three days, my wife and children waited on the highway,” he said.“After picking up the family on the fourth day on May 11, our journey to Jhansi started. The truck driver gave us some food and water. We managed to make space between the grain bags. Policemen stopped the truck on the Rajasthan-Madhya Pradesh border. But after much pleading, they permitted us to continue the journey,” he recalled.Near Morena in Madhya Pradesh, a tractor trolley hit the truck in which Brij Kishore and his family were travelling. They sustained minor injuries, but police personnel gave them first aid and food. They were permitted to continue the journey. Near the Jhansi border, police again stopped the truck as a bus carrying migrants was hit by another truck. Around half-a-dozen injured migrants were taken to hospital in an ambulance.Finally, the truck driver dropped Brij Kishore and his family near the Jhansi border on Sunday morning. The Ahirwar family walked 10 kilometres to reach a police post on the border. From there, they were taken to a quarantine centre established in a school near Babina. “I lost my job, savings and escaped accidents, but managed to return to my native place with my family,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/i-lost-my-job-escaped-accidents-but-made-it-back/story-SEzxX4jTwVH8W15fOV0q7J.html
19-05-2020||Delhi||‘Show discipline’: Kejriwal’s appeal as Delhi reopens amid Covid-19 fears||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal urged people to follow social distancing norms and show discipline during the Covid-19 crisis. His tweet came on a day when the latest guidelines issued by the state government for phase four of the Covid-19 lockdown come into effect.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“Some economic activities are starting from today. It is our responsibility to follow discipline and control the coronavirus disease. Masks, hand sanitisers and social distancing are important. I pray to god to keep you and your family healthy. If we stay disciplined, God will help us,” Kejriwal said on Twitter in Hindi. आज से कुछ आर्थिक गतिविधियाँ शुरू हो रही हैं। हमारी बहुत बड़ी ज़िम्मेदारी है कि पूरे अनुशासन से रहें और करोना को कंट्रोल में रखें। मास्क, सोशल डिस्टन्सिंग और हैंड सैनिटायज़रआप और आपका परिवार स्वस्थ रहें- ऐसी प्रभु से प्रार्थना है।हम अनुशासन से रहेंगे, तो प्रभु हमारी रक्षा करेंगेThe Delhi government threw open all public transport, except metro trains, and allowed people to shop at pretty much any marketplace (malls are still closed) as long as they are not over the age of 65, and the markets are not in Noida or Gurugram (crossing the borders will still require a pass) in latest guidelines issued on Monday.This comes after 55 days of a lockdown imposed in March-end to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease Covid-19. The lockdown continues till May 31, but Monday’s announcement by the state, coming on the back of Sunday’s by the Union home ministry, marks the second phase of a gradual exit from it.On Monday, Kejriwal allowed auto-rickshaws, e-rickshaws and cycle rickshaws with one passenger in every vehicle; green-lighted the resumption of all industries with staggered timings; and said all government and private offices would be open in the city-state where life has come to a standstill due to unprecedented restrictions on movement and activities.“The coronavirus is here to stay. We need to live our lives with corona now. And the lockdown cannot be permanent. So far we have used the lockdown period to prepare ourselves — hospital beds, ventilators, PPE (personal protective equipment), testing kits, etc…Now is the time to revive the economy,” Kejriwal said in a digital press briefing.All relaxations announced by Kejriwal will be applicable across Delhi, except in containment zones which will allow the movement of essential personnel alone and have stricter perimeter control. At present, Delhi has 73 containment zones, which can broadly be defined as the epicentre of an infection.On Monday night, Delhi’s coronavirus dashboard stood at 10,054 cases - of which 5,409 are active - and 160 deaths. So far, 4,485 people have recovered from the disease in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/if-we-show-discipline-god-will-help-us-kejriwal-posts-appeal-as-delhi-reopens-amid-covid-19-fears/story-qodQroU5xsUcIsmW8gU2gP.html
19-05-2020||Dehradun||Lockdown 4.0: Government offices, shops to open in Uttarakhand||Uttarakhand government on Monday issued guidelines for the coronavirus-induced Lockdown 4.0 and allowed the opening of all shops except malls in Green and Orange Zone districts.Talking to media persons, Chief Secretary Utpal Kumar Singh said that the government offices are allowed to function from 10 am to 4 pm.Click here for full coronavirus coverage“All shops except malls in Green and Orange Zones are allowed to be opened from 7 am to 4 pm. The government offices will function from 10 am to 4 pm,” he said.He said that malls, cinema houses and educational institutions would remain closed, while the online classes will continue.“The stadiums are allowed to open but spectators will not be permitted during the lockdown period. All types of gathering will remain banned in the State,” said Singh.The curfew timing will remain from 7 am to 7 pm, he said, furthering informing that there are seven containment zones in the State.“There are seven containment zones in the State. Seven districts are in Green Zone -- Bageshwar, Chamoli, Haridwar, Champawat, Tehri, Pithoragarh, Rudraprayag. Six districts in Orange zone -- Almora, Dehradun, Nainital, Pauri, Udham Singh Nagar, and Uttarkashi. There are no red zone districts in the State,” he said.“The movement of vehicles will be allowed in Haldwani, Rudrapur, Kashipur, Haridwar, Dehradun, and Kotdwar in an odd-even manner. The decision on the public transport for inter-state movement will be taken in one or two days,” he said.Singh said that there are 93 Covid-19 cases in the State.“There are 93 Covid-19 cases in the state, out of which 40 cases are active. 52 people have recovered and one person died. There are 7 containment zones. The doubling rate is 15.5 days. The recovery percentage stands at 56 per cent,” he said.Singh further said that migrant workers in Uttarakhand will be provided with 5 kg ration per person by the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/lockdown-4-0-government-offices-shops-to-open-in-uttarakhand/story-jtl7MNqp6pE9Y5p3t3AxcL.html
19-05-2020||Lucknow||UP: Villages with less than 15% losses to get 24-hr supply, says Energy minister||The Uttar Pradesh government has decided to provide round the clock electricity to rural areas, where aggregate technical and commercial (AT&C) losses are below 15%. Villagers and village panchayats will be asked to join hands in reducing the losses.Energy minister Shrikant Sharma made this announcement at a meeting held at Shakti Bhawan on Monday.He directed the officials to gear up accordingly. Sources, however, said that presently there was hardly any village which qualified the criteria. “We are already providing uninterrupted power to cities. Now, the government wants to supply 24-hour power to villages where the AT&C losses will be less than 15%,” he said while directing officials to change the depilated overhead electricity lines of such villages on a priority basis. This, the minister said, needed public participation and appealed to village panchayats and villagers to cooperate with the government in reducing line losses to make their village self-reliant in terms of power supply giving an impetus to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ‘self-reliance’ campaign.The minister said the government had decided to give uninterrupted power supply to villages considering the fact that the state government was facilitating setting up of village industries under its one-district, one product scheme for self-job creation.He asked the UPPCL to make preparations for giving 24-hour power to deserving villages. He stressed on the need for substation-wise review of schemes and revenue recovery so that each sub-station could become a self-reliant unit in itself. The minister also asked the UPPCL to consider refund or adjustment of the money that consumers had deposited to take temporary power connection for organising events like weddings etc and the event could not be held due to coronavirus lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-villages-with-less-than-15-losses-to-get-24-hr-supply-says-energy-minister/story-wud7Y1irhmUih5uRai2ZDO.html
19-05-2020||Dehradun||4 more persons test Covid-19 positive in Uttarakhand; cases rise to 96||Four more persons tested positive for Covid-19 in Uttarakhand on Monday, taking the total number of coronavirus cases in the state to 96.  The latest cases were reported from Dehradun, Uttarkashi and Nainital districts, where people coming from outside the state tested positive, a health department bulletin here said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageA 60-year-old woman and a 35-year-old man who had returned recently from Maharashtra tested positive in Dehradun. A 23-year-old man who had returned from Gurugram tested positive in Uttarkashi while a 20-year-old woman who had returned from Delhi tested positive in Nainital, it said.With these, the state’s tally of Covid-19 cases rose to 96 out of which 52 have recovered and one has died, leaving the number of active cases in the state at 43, the bulletin said.  Dehradun has the maximum number of 18 cases, followed by Udham Singh Nagar with 15, Nainital with six, Uttarkashi with two and Almora and Pauri with one each, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/4-more-persons-test-covid-19-positive-in-uttarakhand-cases-rise-to-96/story-ZWKMvmy8LUqBJ8TV403wnN.html
19-05-2020||Lucknow||UPSRTC MD seeks report on Hamirpur bus accident||Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) managing director Raj Shekhar has sought a report on a bus accident involving migrant workers in Hamipur district on Monday.At least 15 migrants were injured when the UPSRTC bus in they were travelling overturned on a state highway in Hamirpur district around 6am. The Mahoba-bound bus with 31 workers was coming from Noida when it rammed into a divider presumably because the driver felt sleepy.“We have sought a report on the accident within 24 hours and will take action accordingly after the findings are received,” Shekhar said.In another incident, a UPSRTC contractual bus driver died on Monday early morning while he was taking a bus to Gorakhpur to transport migrants coming by train.“I have spoken to the Basti DM and our officers and further necessary actions are being taken up . The post- mortem examination will reveal the exact cause of death,” Shekhar said. For the second day, UPSRTC buses which were on their way back to their depots, picked up 1334 migrant labourers who were walking home .The UPSRTC MD said 201 buses helped such migrants get a ride to the point near their district headquarters on the national and state highways.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/upsrtc-md-seeks-report-on-hamirpur-bus-accident/story-0hJ3C87W1w2pR3LqHZ9LoI.html
19-05-2020||Education||Private schools pressurise parents for fees, allege parents in Patna||Despite the state government’s order for restraints, a number of private schools in the city are allegedly pressurising parents for payment of fee.Some schools have allegedly also threatened parents to cancel admission of their wards for non-payment of fees. Father of a Class 3 student Dhiraj Kumar said, “My daughter goes to a private school located near Bypass. The school asked me to pay Rs 14,650 which includes Rs 9000 for term fee, Rs.2,400 for bus fee and Rs 3,250 for tuition fee in April. Now I am again getting reminders for depositing May-June fees.”Kumar said, “Despite the DM’s order, the school has asked to pay term fee and transportation fee. It seems that the private schools have gone beyond the government’s jurisdiction.” He also alleged that the school has hiked tuition fee by 12.92 % and transportation fee by 14.58% than the previous year.Another parent Avinash Singh said, “The school has asked me to pay more than Rs. 40,000 which includes Rs.14,000 under annual fee, Rs. 5000 as security deposit along with Rs 1600 as transportation charge.”Some of the schools have asked parents to pay three-month instalment without any relaxation.In April, Patna district magistrate Kumar Ravi had issued an order instructing all the private schools not to pressurise parents for depositing three months’ fee at a time in the wake of coronavirus lockdown. However, the order stated that schools facilitating online classes may request for one-month tuition fee but they cannot exert pressure on parents.The private schools have their own alibi to collect fees normally. “Why private schools be restrained, if government schools are allowed to collect fees?” asked Shamael Ahmad, national president of Private Schools and Children Welfare Association, arguing that the schools have to bear recurring operational costs such as rent and electricity bills even if they are closed. Ahmad also complained that government utilises resources of private schools including their buses during election. But when it comes to offer them relief packages or relaxation, government steps back.On Sunday, regional deputy director of Education Surendra Kumar Sinha informed that showcause letter had been issued to 28 schools so far. He said, “A total of 28 private schools have been served show-cause notice on violation of Bihar Private School (Fee Regulation) Act 2019. They have been commissioned to reply attached with fee structure of current and last academic year. Of total, 12 schools have replied so far. Some of them have asked time period until lockdown lifts.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/private-schools-pressurise-parents-for-fees-allege-parents-in-patna/story-hlpHmJOPsxdiQGiUX74JPJ.html
19-05-2020||Lucknow||Govt committed to bring back migrants safely, says Yogi||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday said the state government was committed to bring back migrant workers stuck in other states ‘safely and respectfully’ to Uttar Pradesh.Yogi said till Monday morning, the government had ferried 7.6 lakh migrant workers from various states on 590 trains. The state government has stationed 12,000 buses to be stationed at railway stations, bordering districts and on highways to take the migrant workers to their home districts. The district magistrates have been directed to acquire 200 private buses to ferry migrant workers, he said.The chief minister said the government is ferrying migrant workers free on trains and buses. Officers have been directed to supply food and water in the trains and buses to the migrants, he said. Addressing a press conference, additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi said the chief minister again called upon migrant workers not to walk on the highways, ride bicycle, motorcycle, auto-rickshaw or move on trucks as the state government is making an all-out efforts to take the migrants to their home districts.The chief minister has directed the DMs of the bordering districts as well as the other districts to offer food and drinking water to each migrant. After screening the migrants, the district administration should arrange vehicles for their safe journey home. The officers were also directed to arrange food and water for the migrants at all toll plazas and important crossings on the highways, he said.The chief minister directed the DGP and UPSRTC officials to intensify patrolling on the highways and roads passing through the districts. Patrolling should be organized on all the highways at night and if any migrant worker was found walking on the highway or moving on unsafe vehicle, the officers should arrange buses to send them home.The PRV of UP-112 should also organize patrolling on highways. The officers should create awareness among the migrants and they should move in vehicles fitted with mike/loudspeakers to make public announcements on the highways, Awasthi said.The UPSRTC officers have been directed to sanitise the buses, each bus, government or private, should have two drivers and the officers of RTO should carry out enforcement of rules strictly on the highways to check road accidents, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/govt-committed-to-bring-back-migrants-safely-says-yogi/story-0b29Dj0fo2zlGtGWnMd4IP.html
19-05-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka hikes stipend of resident doctors by 30-50%||The Karnataka government has notified a raise in the stipend it pays to resident doctors in the state after a series of protests over the lack of revision for years. The stipend was revised last about five years ago and doctors’ associations had been agitating for an increase in the amount paid to them. The resident doctors have pointed out they were risking their lives in the anti-coronavirus fight and also that while tuition fees in Karnataka were the highest the stipend was the lowest. Dr K Sudhakar, the state’s medical education minister, said the stipend has been increased from Rs 20,000 to Rs 30,000 a month for resident doctors. For postgraduate medical students, the stipend has been raised to Rs 45,000, Rs 55,000 and Rs 65,000 a month and for super speciality resident doctors the stipend is Rs 10,000 more than what is paid to regular PG students.The Karnataka Association of Resident Doctors has welcomed the latest notification by the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-hikes-stipend-of-resident-doctors-by-30-50/story-jXISIdX6O8VPiP10pxjQFI.html
19-05-2020||Lucknow||Lockdown 4.0: UP issues fresh guidelines, allows shops to open with riders||The Uttar Pradesh government has allowed resumption of some activities with restrictions for the fourth phase of the lockdown which began on Monday but extended curbs on certain other activities for two more weeks till May 31. However, no relaxation was given in the containment zones or hot spots.The activities that will be permitted, except those specifically prohibited, include industrial activities outside containment zones, opening of shops and markets on separate days with social distancing. Vegetable mandis will open at fixed hours, chief secretary RK Tiwari said in a press statement. Restaurants will be allowed home delivery. Sweet shops will be permitted to sell the edible items, but there will be no seating arrangements for customers. Marriage halls, nursing homes, printing press and dry cleaners will be allowed to open with restrictions. After a marathon meeting with cabinet ministers and ministers of state (independent charge), chief minister Yogi Adityanath gave his approval to the fresh guidelines for lockdown four.The state government adopted a majority of the guidelines issued by union ministry of home affairs (MHA) on Sunday, a state government officer said. In the press statement, the chief secretary also said there will be a complete ban on the domestic and international travel of passengers, metro rail services, educational institutions, hospitality services, all cinema halls and shopping malls. Ban on social, political, cultural and religious programmes will continue. All religious places of worship will be closed and there will be prohibition on religious congregations, he said.Inter-state as well as intra-state movement of passenger vehicles and buses will remain restricted. A separate order for operation of passenger vehicles will be issued later. The movement of persons will be according to the standard operating procedure. The states government will categorise red, orange and green zones taking into consideration the revised guidelines issued by the ministry of health. Inside these zones, containment and buffer zones will be identified by the district administration. In containment zones, only essential services will be allowed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/lockdown-4-0-up-issues-fresh-guidelines-allows-shops-to-open-with-riders/story-kpFbz0mrOqjC0UszXV68yI.html
19-05-2020||City||Amid lockdown, Cong MLA’s son has a low-key gurdwara wedding||Ward number 44 councillor Harkarandeep Vaid, who is the son of Congress MLA Kuldeep Singh Vaid, tied the knot in a quiet gurdwara wedding, spreading the message of low-key marriages and the importance of social distancing amid the coronavirus outbreak. Harkarandeep tied the knot with Bhavdeep Kaur at Sarabha Nagar gurdwara on Sunday and only 25-30 family members were invited to the event. With a focus of social distancing, special seating arrangement was done at durbar hall of the gurdwara and hand sanitisers and masks were kept at the entrance. Citing big fat weddings as the main reason behind farmers getting into a debt trap, Congress MLA Kuldeep Singh Vaid said the residents, especially the farmers, should avoid organising big fat weddings and instead opt for the simpler ones as advocated by Sikh gurus. “Bhavdeep’s father Jatinderpal Singh is a retired PCS officer. He also insisted that we should go for a simple wedding ceremony rather than organising an extravagant event,” the Congress legislator said.‘DO AWAY WITH WASTAGE OF FOOD’The MLA also said, “It was our wish to organise the wedding in a traditional way even if there was no lockdown as my own wedding took place in a very simple manner. Also, we had decided that nothing would be accepted as dowry as we need to abolish this menace from the society.”The groom, Harkarandeep, said, “A lot of food is wasted in big fat weddings, but by organising my wedding ceremony in a traditional way, we tried to avoid the wastage of food and money that can be used for other purposes in the future.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amid-lockdown-cong-mla-s-son-has-a-low-key-gurdwara-wedding/story-ZcJefxcOe9JBavtgPZz5nN.html
19-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi man beats wife to death over dispute||A man beat his 32-year-old wife to death with a rolling pin in front of their four children in East Delhi’s Harsh Vihar on Sunday afternoon after a domestic quarrel, police said Monday.The suspect, Aftaab, 35, fled after the murder. The four children, between the ages of three and eight, sat with the body for nearly five hours before one of them walked over to their grandmother’s home some lanes away and informed her.The weapon was found next to body. Aftaab worked odd jobs. “His first wife had left him a few years ago. Their two children lived with him,” said Ved Prakash Surya, DCP (north-east).About a year ago, Aftaab married Sayema, whose husband had died in a road accident. “Sayema had got lakhs as compensation after her husband’s death,” said a senior police officer, requesting anonymity.But they would allegedly fight often. “Aftaab suspected Sayema of having an affair. He would keep asking for money. If she refused, he would use the alleged affair as excuse to beat her.”Around 8 am on Sunday, the couple quarrelled again. “He wanted money for alcohol but she refused. So he accused her of having an affair and began beating her up,” the officer said.He then picked up the rolling pin from the kitchen and beat her. “Once she fell unconscious, Aftaab banged her head against the wall, picked up some money and escaped,” said the officer.The four children tried to intervene, but were allegedly pushed away. “They stayed with the woman’s body from 8am to 1pm. When she didn’t respond, one of them walked to their grandmother’s home and called her,” the officer said. A case has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-man-beats-wife-to-death-over-dispute/story-YfpwazmROWz4VRUGPiJwyL.html
19-05-2020||City||Back to work, auto drivers in Ludhiana openly flout distancing norms||Back to work after almost two months of curfew on Monday, autorickshaw drivers in Ludhiana were seen openly flouting social distancing norms and plying more than the permissible limit of passengers. According to the guidelines issued by the administration, only two passengers can travel in an auto-rickshaw at a time apart from the driver but most autos were seen plying over six passengers in a go.Not just that, many were openly fleecing passengers. For a ride from the bus stand to the railway station, autos were charging almost Rs 100.‘NOT PROFITABLE’Most drivers said that if they ply only two passengers at a time, they won’t be able save enough for incurring fuel and other expenses. Prabhat Chander, 43, an auto rickshaw driver from Haibowal Kalan, said on normal days he earns around Rs 1,200 by working from 7am to 10pm. “Out of this, I am able to save only Rs 400 daily after deducting all the expenses. Today, I have just earned Rs 60 by ferrying three passengers in two trips since morning out of which, I will be able to save just Rs 20.” He added, “As school, colleges, interstate bus service, regular passenger train service have not started, the number of persons who want to board three-wheeler was less today. “In the coming days, the availability of passengers will increase but as we are allowed to carry only two passengers at a time, I will have to make 30 trips in a day to earn same amount which I used to earn on normal days by carrying five to six passengers at a time in 10-12 trips,” he said while adding that the fuel expenses will increase and there will be less savings.Chander has been driving a three-wheeler for the past 16 years and has never taken a break from his work. “We three-wheeler drivers work on Sundays also. Since March 22, when the curfew was announced, I have had no earnings in hand, no ration in the house. It had become difficult for me to meet the demands of my family. I am thankful to the social workers who served us food during these tough times,” he said.Chander added that today when he learnt that auto-rickshaws are allowed to run, he prayed to the god and thanked him before resuming his work. “Although, I am earning less today but I am happy that I am at least earning something,” he said.Ranjit, vice-president of the Ludhiana three-wheeler auto rickshaw union, said that they have handed over a memorandum to the office of deputy commissioner Pradeep Agrawal requesting him to increase the passenger fare for auto-rickshaws as carrying two passengers at a time with old fare will not work for them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/back-to-work-auto-drivers-in-ludhiana-openly-flout-distancing-norms/story-uDgbqv28JbAdJR0o3aZwNM.html
19-05-2020||City||Entire RPF staff at Ludhiana railway station quarantined||After 49 personnel of railway protection special force (RPSF), deployed at Ludhiana, tested positive, the entire staff of railway protection force (RPF) at Ludhiana railway station has been sent into quarantine.Assistant security commissioner of RPF’s Ferozepur division Arun Kumar has confirmed the development.Initially, two personnel of railway protection special force (RPSF) had tested positive on May 10, following which 38 personnel of RPSF were quarantined. These personnel belong to 6th Battalion at New Delhi and a company of 79 personnel was deployed here at Ludhiana railway station. These personnel had come in three batches, 40 in first batch on May 7, 19 in another on May 8 and 20 personnel came in third batch on May 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/entire-rpf-staff-at-ludhiana-railway-station-quarantined-as/story-WJP2SxEmYA1rzGZAc1m0TK.html
19-05-2020||City||Eight more Ludhiana cops quarantined as 2 accused test positive for Covid-19||In another blow to the police department, two men arrested in separate cases tested positive for Covid-19.The accused in the first case has been identified as Baljinder Singh aka Rahu Sap. He was arrested on May 14 for sodomising a 23 -year-old man.According to the additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP) Sachin Gupta, the nodal officer for Covid-19, five cops, including a sub-inspector and an assistant sub-inspector (ASI), has been advised to remain in home quarantine for a period of 14 days.He said that in another case, Sikander Verma, who was arrested for kidnapping and raping a girl on the pretext of marriage, tested positive today. He was also arrested on May 14. Three cops who came in the contact with the accused have also tested positive.The samples of both the accused were collected as per protocol and both were tested positive. The development comes three days after as many as 17 personnel, including high-ranking police officials, in Ludhiana were sent into isolation after two bodies recovered in crime cases were found positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19).FOUR MORE EMPLOYEES OF CIVIL HOSPITAL PLACED UNDER QUARANTINE A day after two employees of the civil hospital tested positive for Covid-19, the civil hospital authorities isolated four staff employees, who had been in direct touch with the positive patients.Confirming this, Dr Rajesh Bagga said that the four paramedical staff employees, who were their primary contacts have been placed under quarantine. Their samples have been sent for test.PROTEST BY NURSESAs many 15 nurses working on contract, deployed at isolation centre and flu corner of the civil hospital, staged a protest against the hospital authorities for not conducting their Covid-19 tests. The protesting nurses said that they had come in contact with the Class-4 employees tested positive for the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/eight-more-ludhiana-cops-quarantined-as-2-accused-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-wad86x5qARiVSZM6pziFII.html
19-05-2020||Chandigarh||After 60 days, Chandigarh Golf Club set to tee off, conditions apply||After a 60-day corona-forced hiatus, the Chandigarh Golf Club is set to throw open its sprawling greens to its members from Wednesday.The club is apparently the region’s first sporting facility to have opened its doors after the central government announced a slew of relaxations in the round 4 of the countrywide lockdown.A premier club of the region, CGC is credited with grooming a generation of golfers. These include precocious talents such as Jeev Milkha Singh, Karandeep Kochhar and Ajeetesh Sandhu.“We will start operations from May 20. Apart from golf course, all other club facilities, including restaurant and gymnasium, will be closed,” says Sandeep Singh Sandhu (Bobby), CGC president. Sandhu added that the club will follow all safety protocols.The club management has come up with the guidelines for the golfers and there will be a list of dos and don’ts that have to be followed strictly and the members have to book their slots in advance. All the members will be screened prior to entry in the club. A minimum physical distance of six feet has to be maintained and masks are mandatory for golfers. The course will be open from 7.30am till 6.30pm and the last tee off will be at 4.30pm.The booking opens one day prior at 1 pm for morning slots (7.30 am to 11 am) and at 8 am for afternoon slots (11.15 am to 4.30 pm). Bookings close at 6 pm.“It’s for the first time since the inception of the club that the course had been closed for such a long period. The golfers are eagerly waiting for the course to open and the safety of players is our top priority. We have incorporated certain changes to avoid contact during the entire course of play. The pins have been modified to retrieve ball by lifting disc by putter head,” adds Sandhu.“The guest, registered applicants, reciprocal members, dependants and student members will not be allowed till the time fresh guidelines are issued,” he said.”We urge the senior members ( above 65) not to come to the club as per the UT administration’s advisory,” said the club president||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/after-60-days-chandigarh-golf-club-set-to-tee-off-conditions-apply/story-wcmQUkUc8yEDLs0MybJh0O.html
19-05-2020||Chandigarh||Draw up procedures, ensure compliance: Punjab CM to officials||Directing district administrations and the police to remain on high alert in the wake of the lifting of lockdown curbs, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Monday also directed the transport department to draft Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for resumption of local bus movement.The CM added that dealing with and controlling the danger that covid-19 infection could spread due to mixing of people was a real test. He said police needed to be tough and must challan those without masks. At a video conference to take stock of the covid-19 situation, the CM added inter-state movement would be allowed only on special and Shramik trains, at least till May 31 and buses, within the state, will be allowed in a phased manner. Additional chief secretary home Satish Chandra said in line with the Centre acceding to the state’s request to do away with colour coding, the state will now have only containment and non-containment zones.Referring to the entry of migrants, NRIs and others via flights and special trains, the CM reiterated his directions for adherence to quarantine rules. So far, 60,000 Punjabis had registered for return to the state, he said, adding that 20,000 NRIs were also expected to return.Amarinder added that while Punjab was willingly sending back people, including migrants, from other states, spending Rs 7.5 lakh per train, other states were not responding in kind, but were asking his government to arrange for ferrying Punjabis back. He also added that while more trains were needed for Bihar; it was not willing to take in people at this stage as its quarantine facilities were full.Punjab food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu said his department was collating data of migrants based on registrations made for travel, in line with the Centre’s directions on ration distribution.On testing, the meeting was informed that the state would be able to scale up the number from 1,400 to 4,650 per day in the state’s three labs itself. In the next 25 days, four more labs would be ready, with additional 1,000 per day testing capacity, in addition to the capacities with the Centre and in private labs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/draw-up-procedures-ensure-compliance-punjab-cm-to-officials/story-onrxyrA9GbAvuiHHmEpO1J.html
19-05-2020||Chandigarh||‘Labour-intensive works helping Punjab alleviate rural distress’||Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh on Monday said that Punjab had undertaken significant labour-intensive works in villages to effectively leverage the scheme even during lockdown.The state government also plans to take up a special drive this year to enrol more workers and make new job cards to bring more families under the ambit of the programme. This initiative is aimed at addressing rural distress arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic, the CM said.The works includes engagement of two persons per village as ‘van mitras’ to nurture 550 saplings planted by the forest department last year. The state government, on May 12, also launched a cleaning and rejuvenation drive to cover over 15,000 village ponds.These initiatives are helping to address the rural distress caused by the lockdown and Covid-19 pandemic by directly transferring wages in the hands of the rural poor, the CM said.From April 1, all MNREGS work estimates are being made through ‘SECURE’ software. And, in 2019-20 FY, Rs 767 crore was spent under MNREGS, which is the highest ever expenditure in state. With this, a record total of 2.35 crore man-days were generated during the year. The state government has now set a target of 2.50 crore man-days for 2020-21 FY.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/labour-intensive-works-helping-punjab-alleviate-rural-distress/story-uyzz4IcctLgi9PkBknlQhM.html
19-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM launches RTI helpline for prompt response to queries||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday launched an RTI Helpline to facilitate prompt response to people’s queries.The new helpline (0172 2864100) will make the implementation of RTI Act more effective by expeditiously addressing the growing number of queries and clarifying people’s doubts.Describing the initiative as another step to promote transparency in functioning and governance at every level, the CM said the helpline would enable the people to take full advantage of their fundamental right to free speech and expression.As per an official spokesperson, the Punjab State Information Commission, which deals with RTI matters in the state, has been receiving a lot of queries regarding the RTI Act. It has generally been observed that a large section of people who wish to seek information under the Act are not adequately conversant with the provisions and procedures to secure such information.Those seeking information, including in matters pertaining to the ‘life and liberty’ of citizens, are located across Punjab, Chandigarh and other parts of the country, while some are NRIs too, said the spokesperson, explaining the rationale behind the launch of the helpline service.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-cm-launches-rti-helpline-for-prompt-response-to-queries/story-K7fc0zAcpxwymGcBLFoCiI.html
19-05-2020||City||Fascination for guns set to backfire on Moose Wala||Until some weeks ago, he was a blue-eyed boy of Punjab Police, with the state top cop even retweeting his song. But now Punjabi singer Sidhu Moose Wala, 26, who has been grabbing eyeballs ever since he shot into limelight, finds himself on the wrong side of the law.Hailing from Moosa, a remote village in Mansa, Moose Wala has emerged as king of controversies, especially for promoting violence and gun culture in his songs. In February, Moose Wala and singer Mankirat Aulakh were booked for allegedly promoting gun culture and violence via their song ‘Panj golian’ (five bullets).Shubdeep Singh Sidhu, aka Moosewala, completed his electrical engineering from Punjab and moved to Canada on study visa in 2016. A year later, he released his first track ‘So High’ that was followed by two back-to-back albums. The man clearly has fascination for guns --- be it his songs or his official YouTube channel logo that depicts ‘a man dressed in black with a covered face and carrying an AK-47 assault rifle. Laced with Canada’s style and culture, most of his songs have thumping beats and deep bass. He tries to give a rural touch to the songs with his lyrics.Moose Wala’s die-hard fans say he has never promoted drugs, alcohol and vulgarity in his videos, unlike many of his contemporaries.Apart from his gun-promoting numbers, Moosewala has been locked in war of words on social media with other fellow singers, including Karan Aujla.The singer’s brush with controversies continued in 2019 when he angered the Sikh community while making a reference to Bhai Bhago, an18th century Sikh warrior, in the song “Jatti Jeoney Morh Di Bandook”. In March 2020, Moose Wala tendered an apology before the Akal Takht.Moose Wala found favour with Punjab Police after his song on preacher Baldev Singh of Pathlawa village in SBS Nagar. Baldev was the first coronavirus victim in Punjab. The song was shared by DGP Dinkar Gupta on his official Twitter account. Later, both DGP and Moosewala faced backlash from netizens for defaming Baldev Singh following which Gupta removed the song link. Moose Wala also backed Punjab Police’s #MainBhiHarjeetSingh campaign.Last month, Mansa SSP Narinder Bhargav took Moose Wala along with him to give a birthday surprise for a corona warrior. A video of some cops teaching the controversial singer how to fire a gun using their service weapons went viral following which a case was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fascination-for-guns-set-to-backfire-on-moose-wala/story-6WOps6YcRdAKixO0CbgMQL.html
19-05-2020||City||‘From parallel to commercial theatre, Ratnakar Matkari excelled in every sphere, made a mark’||Ratnakar was my absolute contemporary. He was one of the most important writers in theatre and cinema. Right from the parallel theatre movement to the commercial theatre, he excelled in everything and made a mark. He was one of the writers who was awarded both— the Sangeet Natak Akademi for his plays and the Sahitya Akademi Child Literary Award, which was a rare achievement. I feel he rightly deserved it. It made him a tall figure in the world of literature.We were in touch as our exploits in the parallel theatre movement were happening simultaneously. Not many are aware that both of us worked in Bank of India at the same time. I vividly remember an incident related to an inter-bank drama competition. It used to be a vibrant activity during the 70s and 80s. I was working at the head office in Mumbai when the manager at the last minute had requested me to do something for the competition. I was in a dilemma and the only person I thought of was Ratnakar. I went to his branch and told him there was a challenge that I couldn’t take on single-handedly. We sat down together and chose one of his short stories and came up with a production. Ratnakar, his wife Pratibha and I rehearsed over the weekend, and acted in the play, which was highly appreciated. This was even before Pratibha went to the National School of Drama. Our careers and activities have been going hand-in-hand for many decades. The last time I met him was around two years ago, when I came to Mumbai. My wife, Sandhya, and I went to his house at Dadar. We had discussed a few ideas which we were hoping to collaborate on. We would often cross paths at many events. We would have long conversations over the phone. It’s a great shock to me. I’ll really miss his company. (As told to Sonil Dedhia)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/from-parallel-to-commercial-theatre-ratnakar-matkari-excelled-in-every-sphere-made-a-mark/story-QgogaaoYjnf6CSsrDqUeGM.html
19-05-2020||Mumbai||Marathi writer, playwright, Ratnakar Matkari, who tested positive for Covid-19, passes away||Veteran Marathi writer and playwright Ratnakar Matkari, 81, who tested positive for Covid-19, passed away on Monday.Considered a pioneer of the children’s drama movement in Marathi, Matkari died at a hospital in suburban Marol on Sunday night, said a civic official.From story books for kids to plays, his work in Marathi literature was phenomenal, a writer said.In his condolence message, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said, “We have lost a precious gem from the world of literature. He wrote for children and for grown-ups as well. His immense contribution in various forms such as plays, short stories, novel has enriched the world of Marathi literature.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/marathi-writer-playwright-ratnakar-matkari-who-tested-positive-for-covid-19-passes-away/story-StesuJQG0riTJEbXhSUBRL.html
19-05-2020||Mumbai||After 5 days, couple gets blood donor in Mumbai to save unborn child||Fear of contracting Covid-19 is keeping people from donating blood, which in turn is leading to critical medical situations and a shortage in blood banks, particularly of negative blood groups. The family of an unborn child, who has been diagnosed with a rare blood disorder and urgently needs intrauterine blood transfusion, had to wait for five days until they found a donor on Monday.Suwarna Pawar, who is seven months pregnant, was admitted to Wadia Maternity Hospital in Parel last week. The foetus has been diagnosed with a rare blood disorder, is anaemic and to survive, requires intrauterine blood transfusion (a procedure by which blood transfusion is done through the umbilical cord). Pawar has A- (negative) blood, but the foetus needs O- blood.“I brought my wife to the hospital on Wednesday and since then we have been trying to find a donor. On Saturday, a person donated his blood, but due to some medical issues, doctors couldn’t use the blood,” said Pawar’s husband, Dadasaheb.Wadia Maternity Hospital didn’t have O- blood and were unable to arrange for the blood despite contacting their registered O- blood donors. “We have over 100 registered O- blood donors but none of them are agreeing to come to the hospital to donate blood because of the fear of contracting Covid-19. We are helpless,” said a doctor from Wadia Maternity Hospital.Finally, on Monday, Wadia Maternity Hospital told the Pawars that if the transfusion could not be arranged within 24 hours, the foetus would develop further complications.Following the intervention of this reporter, 39-year-old O- donor Prashant Sawant from Tilak Nagar agreed to donate the blood. With the help of a friend who drove Sawant to the hospital, Sawant was able to donate his blood.“It was my duty to save the life of the child who hasn’t even seen the light of the day. Just like the Covid-19 pandemic, we are also facing another health crisis — shortage of blood. There is no supplement for blood so people need to come forward to donate blood,” said Sawant, who works in an IT company.The hospital is expected to perform the intrauterine transfusion today.Two more O- donors have also been arranged through SBTC and the Twitter handle of Blood Donors India (@BloodDonorsIn).Previously, HT had inquired with major blood banks like King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital, Tata Memorial Hospital and Sir JJ Mahanagar Raktapedhi, but none of them had O- blood. According to the State Blood Transfusion Council (SBTC), only one unit of O- blood was available at Rajawadi Hospital and 44 units of O- blood components were available at different blood banks. However, these are not suitable for intrauterine transfusion since they are not freshly donated.“For intrauterine transfusion, we need freshly donated blood which can’t be more than five days old. All the blood components that are available, are quite old,” said a blood medical officer from Wadia Maternity Hospital, where two major surgeries had to be stalled due to unavailability of O- and A- blood. “Currently, we a crisis in [the supply of] A-, AB- AB+ and O-. We have taken enough precautionary measures to prevent any possible transmission of Covid during donation,” said Dr Thorat. In Mumbai, there is not one whole unit of A- blood in any blood bank and there are only 14 units of blood component of A- in the city. As HT had reported on Monday, fear of contracting Covid-19 has led to a 60% fall in blood donation in the city. Almost 80% of the blood banks in Mumbai have no supplies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/after-5-days-couple-gets-blood-donor-in-mumbai-to-save-unborn-child/story-qs5biEyWIlI8aB3RqMdFkP.html
19-05-2020||Mumbai||Burials at Christian cemeteries not being permitted in Mumbai, say kin of Covid-19 patients||On Sunday night, the family of a 61-year-old Christian woman from Mahim who had died of Covid-19, was forced to cremate her body because the cemetery refused to allow her burial. While the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has identified 20 Muslim cemeteries where Covid-19 victims may be buried, no Christian cemeteries have been listed.With Christian cemeteries not accepting bodies of Covid-19 victims, families are being forced to abandon funeral customs. After the 61-year-old passed away on Sunday, her family spent agonising hours trying to get directions from the hospital, the municipal corporation and the police that would let her be buried. Ultimately, her body was cremated on Sunday night.“According to the Bible, it is said that we are born out of dust and we go back to dust. When we aren’t given an option to bury the body, it hurts our sentiments. We were literally left with no option but to let the body be put in electric crematorium along with the coffin,” said Noah Christian, a relative of the Covid-19 victim.Activist Cyril Dara said that in the last week, he had heard of three other Christians who had succumbed to Covid-19 and had to be cremated. “When there are provisions for burial of other communities, why not for our community members? In countries like USA, Italy, Iran and many other countries, respectful burial is been given,” said Dara.Last month, BMC allowed burials within city limits, provided the ground is large enough to ensure there is no threat of transmission to residents. “When we were discussing the issue, we had called representatives of Christian and Parsi communities. They had assured us that they will look into the practice on a case to case basis. If there is a demand, we can provide for a burial space for Christians,” said a senior official from BMC.Explaining the 20 Muslim cemeteries where Covid-19 victims may be buried, he said, “Among Muslims, there are lot of sects and each of them have different burial grounds. A demand had come in from them to allot space in cemeteries which were large,” said the official. He added that since the Christian community was “scattered,” there wasn’t a particular area that was allotted.Father Nigel Barett, spokesperson of the Archdiocese of Bombay, which has around five lakh members, said “When it comes to burials [of Covid-19 victims], the respective family needs to take permission from BMC, and they will allot a space for burials to take place. We are not the authority here to take a call on this.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/burials-at-christian-cemeteries-not-being-permitted-in-mumbai-say-kin-of-covid-19-patients/story-M3U22rMygJKgnPpCWJTaGI.html
19-05-2020||City||Thane records 91 new cases, one death||Thane Municipal Corporation reported 91 Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking the toll to 1,269. This is the second highest single-day spike recorded in Thane after last week’s 94 cases. Thane also recorded a death of a 60-year-old man from Wagale Estate. He was working with a private factory that manufactures masks and sanitisers in Mulund. He would travel to his workplace every day, as the company was short-staffed.“He was admitted to the Thane civil hospital after he developed symptoms last week. His test report came positive on Saturday. He died on Monday,” said Kailas Pawar, civil surgeon, Thane civil hospital.He was to retire this month. “It was his dedication to work that did not let him stay at home despite the pandemic,” said his colleague, on condition of anonymity.With this, Thane has recorded 50 Covid deaths.Among the 91 positive cases reported on Monday, nine are children between one and 16 years. Lokmanyanagar-Savarkarnagar ward reported 23 new cases.“There are 177 containment zones in Thane. The recovery rate is at 24%,” said Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner, TMC. Naupada and Kopri have a total of 132 cases till now.In a recent meeting with Thane guardian minister Eknath Shinde and TMC officials, it was decided that special provisions will be made for pregnant women and dialysis patients. “With monsoon approaching, other ailments may also need hospitalisation. We have to put in place such facilities,” said Shinde.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-records-91-new-cases-one-death/story-cmYSpxnh4WUMrPNa8APpuN.html
19-05-2020||Mumbai||Bombay high court not keen to resume physical court till coronavirus outbreak continues||The Bombay high court (HC) administration held a meeting presided by the chief justice and senior judges, to decide on various presentations by senior advocates and lawyers. seeking resumption of regular court and conducting physical hearings. According to members of bar associations who attended the meeting, the administration was firm in its decision that till the Covid-19 pandemic continues, physical hearings cannot be held. In light of the onset of monsoon and denial of physical hearings, the member said that the court administration observed that it should first work out the modalities of commencing court work in a phase-wise manner. The meeting was attended by the additional solicitor general, advocate general, and representatives of various bar associations. According to another member of a bar association who was in attendance, the meeting centered around two major issues – having physical hearings in the HC and physical hearing in courts other than the HC. Advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni apprised the attendees about the demarcation of red, orange and green zones by the government depending on the existence of infected cases, and said that a decision regarding physical hearings would be possible only after the state government updated the list later in the evening. The member further said that the meeting also discussed improving the quality of video conferencing wherein it was suggested to permit call conferencing if video conferencing quality was not good. However, the administrative judges did not show any inclination towards this idea. A request was also made to increase the number of days when the court worked and the number of judges assigned to hear cases on these days. According to the bar association member, the administrative judges said that in the current pandemic situation, allowing physical hearings would not be possible but a decision on permitting the same in courts in green zones, and other issues, would be taken only after there was clarity from the government. The decision is likely to be announced on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-high-court-not-keen-to-resume-physical-court-till-coronavirus-outbreak-continues/story-Fg00jcZWOEiSVnzsedFYeP.html
19-05-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai Monorail work back on track amid lockdown||The lockdown period has been utilised by authorities to revamp or complete certain projects. For instance, the Mumbai Monorail has been working to rebuild two trains by the end of the current lockdown period, which will take the total number of its operations to six. According to a statement from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), the lockdown period was utilised to procure spare parts, including 18 brake callipers, 98 tyres and 16 bogie shock absorbers, for the two trains.“We are aiming to repair two more trains by May 31 or the week after that. When we restart in phases, we will have six trains and an additional one at standby with a frequency of 15 mins,” a senior official from MMRDA said.The official said that the team is also undertaking civil, electrical and signalling maintenance works during the lockdown period. “We are also undertaking online training for station masters and train operators,” the official said.With the two trains, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) aims to better the frequency to 15 minutes, which currently even extends to 45 minutes at times. The new services will give respire to commuters who have been complaining about the poor frequency of the 19.5-km Chembur-Saat Rasta corridor since it became operational a year back.It is also likely to improve the monorail’s ridership. In March, HT had reported how only around 38 lakh commuters have used the monorail in a year, which is a mere 10% of the estimated ridership of 3.60 crore. MMRDA had stated that it can achieve the desired ridership only when 10 rakes are in operation.MMRC completes 82% tunnelling in cityThe Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation (MMRC) has completed 82% (44.99km) of the tunnelling work for the fully-underground Metro-3 (Colaba-Bandra-Seepz) route by May 16. It has also completed more than 70% works on MIDC and Vidhan Bhavan stations, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-monorail-work-back-on-track-amid-lockdown/story-4v947GZ6y2Fb10VVQXNf3N.html
19-05-2020||Mumbai||Union’s appeal to stay at home had no impact on staff: BEST||There was no impact on the operations of the Brihanmumbai Electricity Supply and Transport (BEST) buses despite the call by one of its workers’ union, BEST Sanyukta Kamgar Kruti Samiti (BSKKS), asking staffers to stay home. On Monday morning, the transport undertaking said it operated 1,800 buses – which was more than the services on other lockdown days – to ferry those in the essential services and as well as citizens to hospitals and quarantine centres. The buses were installed with mesh guards on windows and windscreens as a precautionary measure. Manoj Varade, BEST’s public relations officer, said the transport undertaking’s staff as well as those employed with the wet lease buses had reported to duty. “We had ensured that those in the essential duties were not inconvenienced at a time when we are battling the Covid-19 outbreak,” said Varade.The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) has also readied 1,200 more buses and 3,000 drivers and conductors on standby. However, as buses are not operational for the general public owing to the lockdown, there is no need to run the additional buses, an official said.However, BSKKS leader Shashank Rao claimed that 90% of the total staffers responded to the ‘stay home’ appeal and did not join duty. “Members of the Shiv Sena union and BEST administration pressurised many staffers to join duty. But most of them refused to do so because they know that our demands are genuine and need to be addressed on an immediate basis,” Rao said.The union said it appealed to staffers to stay home after the administration ignored its demands to ensure staffers’ safety, and provide them with personal protective equipment (PPE), proper quarantine facilities and a medical cover of ₹1 crore for each of its employees and their families.Union members approached several drivers and conductors till late Sunday night, urging them not to join the protest and report for work.Meanwhile, the Tulinj police in Nallasopara seized a BEST bus from Bandra depot after liquor worth ₹30,000 was found from it. The driver has been arrested. According to officials, the driver allegedly purchased the liquor from wine shops at Nallasopara (East) to supply it in Mumbai where liquor shops are shut due to the pandemic. “We are yet to ascertain if the driver is our staffer or from the wet lease department. An action will be taken accordingly,” said Varade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/union-s-appeal-to-stay-at-home-had-no-impact-on-staff-best/story-I5kdCFaNcU760GxHlxvanI.html
19-05-2020||Mumbai||Railways levied ₹50 surcharge on each ticket for migrants: Maharashtra Congress||Mumbai Maharashtra Congress has alleged that the Union railway ministry has levied a surcharge of ₹50 on each ticket for migrants who have been travelling back to their home states from Maharashtra. Calling it “insensitive and inhuman”, the Congress has also dared the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to prove its claim of the central government bearing 85% of the train fare for the migrants or apologise. Maharashtra Congress’s general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant, in a press conference on Monday, presented a letter written by the Railway Board on May 1, which directs the zonal railway offices to levy the surcharge. The letter, signed by the director of passenger marketing, has stated that the superfast charges of ₹30 and additional charges of ₹20 are levied on the tickets issued for the Shramik Special trains. “Levying surcharge on migrants’ tickets over the actual fare is shameful. This is nothing but ‘Corona Tax’ being recovered from the helpless migrants who have been unemployed from the past two months and are running out of money,” Sawant said.He added that BJP leaders’ claim that the central government was bearing 85% of the cost of the railway fare for the migrants was false. “It is a false claim by BJP leaders, including Maharashtra BJP chief Chandrakant Patil. I dare Patil to prove the claim or apologise before the people of the state,” he said.BJP has however, said that the ruling parties in Maharashtra are misguiding the people. Claiming that he is not aware of any such surcharge being levied, BJP spokesperson Madhav Bhandari said, “The Railway Board is charging 15% of the actual cost of running special trains from the state government. The state government and Congress are misleading people that they have been paying the complete fare of the tickets for migrants. While levelling allegations against BJP and the Centre, the Congress should tell the people of Maharashtra why have they been charging ₹14 per km for the special buses run by the state transport corporation during the lockdown when the actual ticket rate fare is much lesser.”A day earlier, Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh too, had claimed that the entire cost of the railway fare for the migrants has been borne by the state government. He also said that the state has made an allocation of ₹25 crore for the purpose after the Centre turned down their request of making the trains available free of cost.BJP to start Maharashtra Bachao protest from todayThe Maharashtra Bharatiya Janata Party has signalled to start a state-wide campaign, ‘Maharashtra Bachao’ against the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government from Tuesday to protest against the administration’s handling of the Covid-19 outbreak. State party chief Chandrakant Patil and leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis, who held a meeting via audio bridge with senior leaders on Monday, also demanded that the state announce an independent package for daily wage earners to give them relief.BJP leaders will give a statement to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and district collectors to “awaken the state government’’ on Tuesday, and on Wednesday, lakhs of party workers will stand outside their homes with slates and hoardings to protest against the administration’s ineffectual governance, said a communication from the BJP.“The coronavirus pandemic in the state and Mumbai has gone out of hand. Nobody seems to be in charge. Those who want to get admitted are not getting hospital beds. There are several unaddressed issues of migrant labourers, the poor and the farmers,’’ said Fadnavis.He added that while this is not time to do politics, the state government needs to be awakened from its slumber and made to see the woes of its people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/railways-levied-50-surcharge-on-each-ticket-for-migrants-maharashtra-congress/story-64lmtifNqwS3reBJ4yb8fN.html
19-05-2020||City||Navi Mumbai records 74 new cases||Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) reported 74 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking total tally to 1,264. Six deaths were also reported.The 74 positive cases are Turbhe (22), Airoli (13), Nerul (12), Vashi (8), Ghansoli (6), Digha (5) and Belapur and Kopar Khairane four each.Three wholesale markets at APMC, Vashi, opened on Monday after being shut for a week. The vegetable, grains and spices market opened for business with strict restrictions on the movement of vehicles and people and social distancing norms.The onion-potato market and fruit markets are slated to open on Thursday.APMC director Shankar Pingle said, “We have started the market as the government wants the essential supplies. Strict norms are in place.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navi-mumbai-records-74-new-cases/story-AZiPc9Zn0TX1lAMl1MwoEP.html
19-05-2020||City||Spitting at public places: Police yet to receive challan books||Apart from performing lockdown duty, police personnel have also been asked to issue challans against people spitting at public places and not wearing masks, but they have not been provided challan books for the purpose.However, police have started issuing challans for double riding on two-wheelers to maintain social distancing using the old challan books.Currently, the police are issuing challans under Section 177 of the Motor Vehicles Act for double riding on a two-wheeler. In the past five days, the police have issued around 1,000 challans.The police said, in the absence of books to challan people for spitting at public places and not wearing masks, they are only making them aware of the norms and letting them go after issuing verbal warnings.The police said as soon as they received the challan books, they would start issuing challans.Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, traffic) Gurdev Singh said, “The police personnel of the assistant sub-inspector (ASI) or above rank can issue challans for spitting on road and for not wearing mask. The challan books have been received at the headquarters and would be distributed among the police teams soon.”He added a violator would have to pay a fine from Rs 200 to Rs 500 for violations.He added double riding on a two-wheeler is not an offence under the Motor Vehicles Act, but there is a provision to issue challans under section 177 of the Act according to government directions.Ankur Mehta, a local, said earlier the police started lodging FIRs for covering faces with masks while riding two-wheelers, now they are punishing people for not wearing masks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/spitting-at-public-places-police-yet-to-receive-challan-books/story-FKx8V20yy7WHndB2kszOlL.html
19-05-2020||City||Private schools cannot increase fee for 2020-21 academic session: Ludhiana DC||Punjab government has directed private schools not to increase the fees for 2020-21 academic session in view of the coronavirus outbreak, Ludhiana deputy commissioner (DC) Pradeep Kumar Agrawal said on Monday. In this regard, a letter has been issued to the management/principals of all the private unaided schools of the state. “Moreover, the school managements/principals have been asked to give the parents an option to pay the fee on monthly or quarterly basis. The school managements are also advised to sympathetically consider the cases of students whose parents’ livelihoods may have been adversely impacted due to the lockdown for fee waiver or concession and no child may be denied access to education (online or regular) on the non-payment of fee,” the DC said.‘IMPART ONLINE EDUCATION’The letter sent to the schools also directed their managements “not to resort to removal of any teacher or reduction in the monthly salary or total emoluments of teaching and non-teaching staff.” It also said that the schools shall endeavour to impart online/distance learning so that education is not adversely impacted due to the present or future lockdowns imposed due to the coronavirus.Those schools that have provided or are providing online education during the period of lockdown may charge tuition fee only, the letter read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/private-schools-cannot-increase-fee-for-2020-21-academic-session-ludhiana-deputy-commissioner/story-FKfrPBKO7yjkxISi9RgddK.html
19-05-2020||City||Truck topples during nullah-cleaning work in Thane||A truck, which was collecting silt during the nullah-cleaning at Talaopali in Thane toppled into a drain on Monday. No one was injured. “The municipal corporation has started cleaning drains in Thane as part of pre-monsoon work. The truck was collecting the silt removed from the nullah, near Moreshwar Kamal society. The truck driver lost control of the vehicle and it toppled into a nullah,” said an official from regional disaster management cell (RDMC) official from, Thane. The driver was not injured. “The RDMC team reached the spot with a JCB to remove the truck which from the drain,” added the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/truck-topples-during-nullah-cleaning-work-in-thane/story-dg4tn7e0oQRSOn1UBbz59O.html
19-05-2020||City||Recovered Ambernath cop gets a warm welcome||A 43-year-old constable from Ambernath police station recovered from Covid-19 was discharged from hospital on Monday.His colleagues and residents of the area welcomed him by performing aarti and clapping for him.The police constable was overwhelmed with the warm welcome. “I urge all people to follow the government guidelines and take all precautions to be safe and healthy,” he said.A total of 106 police personnel have tested positive for Covid-19 in Thane commissionerate and 27 have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/recovered-ambernath-cop-gets-a-warm-welcome/story-EDACJIDQ37JZlv7NOnueqM.html
19-05-2020||Chandigarh||Even as teaching hit amid lockdown, Chandigarh schools begin unit tests||Chaos prevails among virtual classrooms as city schools continue running classes online. While some of these schools do not hold classes and only share reading material with students online, there are other schools that have even started conducting unit tests for internal assessment in the absence of any teaching.One of the parents whose kids study in a school in Sector 40, Savita Bansal, said, “My daughter is in Class 9 and it has not even been a week since her school started taking online classes.” “However, the school has now released a schedule for unit tests starting next week. With almost minimal teaching, how do they think students can perform in these exams,” she added.Another parent whose son and daughter study in a school in Sector 44, Akash Kumar, said, “Instead of focusing on imparting learning among students, schools are more concerned about conducting exams. There is hardly any school where the syllabus has been completed.” “Meanwhile, online classes are chaotic for students. Besides, there is hardly any teaching involved,” added Kumar.A student of Class 12, Gagandeep, said, “My school has hardly taken any classes so far. Teachers share powerpoint presentations and graphs with students. In Class 12, with such tricky concepts, how do they expect that we will be able to understand the chapters ourselves?”“That’s not all, each and every chapter is correlated with the previous one. Without understanding the last unit, one cannot move forward,” she said.Many students have started taking private coaching as they have no other option. A student of Class 11, Seema Sharma, said, “I clear my concepts by scrolling various tutorials online and on YouTube. I have also subscribed to private tuitions.”Chandigarh Independent Schools’ Association president HS Mamik said schools and teachers are also learning to adapt to this new mode of teaching and it will take a while for things to settle down.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/even-as-teaching-hit-amid-lockdown-chandigarh-schools-begin-unit-tests/story-2hdRRNLZfTbgVWWG1LE95J.html
19-05-2020||Mumbai||Activist arranges for vehicles to ferry patients to hospitals||A Mira Road-based activist has come to the rescue of patients and senior citizens who are finding it difficult to visit hospitals due to lockdown restrictions. Over the last few days, Sadique Basha has been attending to requests from people and arranging vehicles for them to visit hospitals. A few days ago, Basha decided to make an autorickshaw available for patients who wished to see a doctor or go to a hospital. He made a small video clip with his contact number and posted it on social media sites offering help in case need. Over the next few days, he got a large number of requests from people. “I realised there were just too many people who had no means to travel due to lockdown. Patients who don’t own a vehicle find it difficult to travel. People cannot walk till they find a bus. Thus we started helping such people,” he said. Seeing the number of people seeking help, Basha got three more cars from his friends who wanted to help him help others during this difficult time. “With this, we now have four vehicles. People who wish to avail the service have to send the details on message because we need to make sure it’s a genuine request. Then, patients are picked up and dropped to and from hospitals. We hope to help more people in the coming days as we know that there are many who need such a service at this hour especially considering that the lockdown is being extended.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/activist-arranges-for-vehicles-to-ferry-patients-to-hospitals/story-7Zj4DN5cEFW1koAIdSxDOM.html
19-05-2020||Mumbai||Despite DGCA advisory, some airlines resume online bookings for June||Despite aviation regulator Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) telling airlines that they will be told about commencing online bookings, most of the Indian airlines, including IndiGo, Vistara and GoAir, have resumed accepting online bookings for both domestic and international travel for June. However, low-cost carrier SpiceJet has closed its online bookings till mid-June while online bookings for AirAsia are closed for the coming month. A SpiceJet spokesperson said, “Our international bookings are closed till June 15, 2020.”After checking that online bookings were available for passengers, HT contacted IndiGo, Vistara and GoAir, but they did not comment on their online bookings for national and international travel. DGCA chief Arun Kumar said, “Airlines are doing it at their risk and cost. However, they have to comply with DGCA CAR (civil aviation requirements) on refund, cancellation etc, failing which they will face strict action.”A source from one of the leading airlines said, “The DGCA circular asked airlines to keep bookings closed until further notice. However, it is not possible to keep them closed indefinitely. Hence, majority of the airlines have resumed their online bookings for travels starting June 1, 2020.” Warning travellers, Sudhakara Reddy, president of Air Passengers Association of India (APAI), tweeted, “We understand 6E, SpiceJet, GoAir have started taking bookings for international flights imagining that flights will operate from 1st June. Pl don’t fall for it. Ur money will become a credit shell, instead keep it safe at home. (sic)”“Under the immense pressure of Covid-19 and with no support from the government in terms of direct liquidity infusion for airlines, it is certain that many carriers will seize to exist by the time the aviation sector returns to regular levels. All the airlines are on the brink of breakdown and are looking for ways to manage their cash flows,” said an airline source. “Some cash-strapped airlines have resumed international bookings for the month of June to gather some cash from customers, which shall help them to survive the recovery period. Government and DGCA so far have not given any directives to airlines to begin international bookings. The confidence of passenger and travel agents is shaken due to earlier refunds which are stuck. There is a limit to block funds. Unless the government comes with clear guidelines that in June airlines will fly and in case of cancellations refunds will be given, there will hardly be any taker for these tickets,” said Nishant Patti, co-founder of EaseMyTrip.com.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/despite-dgca-advisory-some-airlines-resume-online-bookings-for-june/story-BeweLJpWHyWDuZAOMvAbLP.html
19-05-2020||City||Farmer booked after plastic godown catches fire due to ‘stubble burning’ in Ludhiana||Police have booked a farmer after fire broke out at a plastic godown at Alamgir village, allegedly due to burning of wheat straw by him in the adjoining farm on Monday. The accused has been identified as Gurbachan Singh of the same village. A gas cylinder kept in the labour quarters also exploded, but no casualty was reported from the spot.As per information, those in the labour quarters on the godown premises had gone to work in other unit of the firm. The fire broke out at around 4:30pm and seven fire tenders were rushed to the spot. Sub fire officer (SFO) Maninder Singh said that fire fighters doused the flames in around two-and-half-hours. No casualty was reported at the spot, he said. Jatinder Nagpal, godown owner, said that materials worth lakhs were destroyed in the fire. “The blaze broke out due to burning of wheat straw by the farmer. He had burnt crop residue last year too and we had asked him not to do so, however, this time he intentionally burnt it, leading to the fire in the godown,” said Nagpal.Dehlon police station house officer (SHO) Sukhdev Singh Brar said on the complaint of Jatinder Nagpal, we have booked Gurbachan Singh under Section 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). “He is on run. A manhunt has been launched to nab him,” said the SHO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmer-booked-after-plastic-godown-catches-fire-due-to-stubble-burning-in-ludhiana/story-QbbX1NOBTahgG3zcFkS0wL.html
19-05-2020||Chandigarh||Panchkula sticks to existing orders on opening of shops, other activities||The Panchkula administration did not announce any new instructions for opening of shops, and other activities, on Monday, thus sticking to existing orders for now. Panchkula deputy commissioner (DC) Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said, “Though we have received official orders from the state government on new guidelines from the ministry of home affairs (MHA), we have not taken any new decision on it for the district. Most activities will remain as per existing orders and instructions.”As per existing orders, shops rendering essential services are allowed to remain open on all days, as per conditions, between 7am to 6.30pm. Other shops are classified into three categories and will be operational between 8am to 6pm on two specified days. Barber shops, salons and spas will remain closed among other activities prohibited, as per the existing order. Haryana assembly speaker and Panchkula MLA Gian Chand Gupta held a meeting with the administrative officials and discussed government’s instructions on Lockdown 4.0, on Monday.Ahuja said a meeting with officials concerned will be held on Tuesday and instructions issued by the government for Lockdown 4.0 will be implemented strictly. He said the sports complex in Sector 3 has been opened for practice, but there will be complete restriction on public movement. Sports activities can also be held at Gymkhana Club, he added. Meanwhile, Haryana roadways officials said intra-district bus services will be initiated for public.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panchkula-sticks-to-existing-orders-on-opening-of-shops-other-activities/story-oj5tSANP1O8jzxQCaAx1pJ.html
19-05-2020||Mumbai||BMC changes Covid-19 sealing rules, may seal floor instead of entire building||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Monday issued a revised protocol for sealing of buildings in case one or more residents are detected with Covid-19. According to the new protocol, the entire building need not be sealed and only that particular floor can be sealed as decided by BMC authority. Meanwhile, symptomatic patients who test positive for Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, will be shifted to appropriate health facility, BMC has said in the circular.BMC has also said that in case the floor or building is sealed, the handover will be given to society office bearers for ensuring all help is provided to the affected families. BMC has appealed to not stigmatise those being quarantined.However, the civic body has also said it may seal entire building depending on the situation. Daksha Shah, deputy executive health officer of BMC, said, “Sealing of building or floor may be decided based on local situation, area of building/society complex, number of cases, etc.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-changes-covid-19-sealing-rules-may-seal-floor-instead-of-entire-building/story-n1eU5kgox2n5o64K2vF94M.html
19-05-2020||Chandigarh||₹4,000 crore stimulus package needed to kick start Chandigarh’s economy: CII||The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) on Monday said the Chandigarh administration should provide an economic stimulus package of around Rs4,000 crore to various economic sectors to kickstart the economy here.“A war chest of Rs 40 billion (Rs 4,000 crore) must be created to support industries, service sector, poor and weaker sections of the society and help those in distress owing to the Covid-19 lockdown,” CII Chandigarh chairman SPS Grewal said here on Monday.The relief package should have a two pronged approach to support consumption and also augment the cycle of investment and industrial activity in the coming times, he suggested. Dr Grewal also asked for full implementation of the Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) Act in Chandigarh and urged the administration to provide wage subsidy to the extent of 50% of minimum wages for all registered workers for a period of three months in manufacturing, handicrafts and services sectors.Focusing on ease of doing business, Manish Gupta, vice chairman, CII Chandigarh, said the administration should extend all renewals/licenses for pollution, fire and labour by another year, waive off fixed electricity charges and property tax by six months, issue notification for allowing mortgage of industrial property under leasehold and general power of attorney, which will encourage banks as well as industry to keep the cash flow going during the Covid-19 pandemic period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/4-000-crore-stimulus-package-needed-to-kick-start-chandigarh-s-economy-cii/story-uJ5qiq0wUkovYpBJxgfMSJ.html
19-05-2020||City||Murder case registered 3 days after woman’s body found tied to chair in Dera Bassi pond||Three days after a semi-clad body of a woman tied to a chair with its hands and feet chained was found floating in a pond in Dera Bassi’s Saidpura village, police on Monday registered a murder case against unidentified persons.The case under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Dera Bassi police station on the basis of a statement by Nirmal Singh, a local leader of the village.“The body of the woman was found with its hands and feet chained. A gunny bag with bricks was also recovered with the body, presumably to ensure the victim drowned, so we have registered a murder case,” said Kuldeep Singh, the investigating officer. Proceedings in the case began after the body was kept in the mortuary for 72 hours for identification. Police estimated the body, which had not been identified and was pulled out of the pond by villagers, to be about eight to 10 days old as it was swollen. Postmortem examination will be done on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/murder-case-registered-3-days-after-woman-s-body-found-tied-to-chair-in-dera-bassi-pond/story-WIIZcRiP5FzchzIsixGSmJ.html
19-05-2020||Delhi||Except Metro, all public transport thrown open in Delhi||Delhi residents can hop into public transport — cab services and buses; not the metro yet — and shop at pretty much any marketplace (malls are still closed), as long as they are not over the age of 65, and the markets are not in Noida or Gurugram (crossing the borders will still require a pass), according to the latest guidelines issued by the state government. This comes after 55 days of a lockdown imposed in March-end to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). To be sure, the lockdown continues till May 31, but Monday’s announcement by the state, coming on the back of Sunday’s by the Union home ministry, marks the second phase of a gradual exit from it. On Monday, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal allowed auto-rickshaws, e-rickshaws and cycle rickshaws with one passenger in every vehicle; green-lighted the resumption of all industries with staggered timings; and said all government and private offices would be open in the city-state where life has come to a standstill due to unprecedented restrictions on movement and activities.“The coronavirus is here to stay. We need to live our lives with corona now. And the lockdown cannot be permanent. So far we have used the lockdown period to prepare ourselves — hospital beds, ventilators, PPE (personal protective equipment), testing kits, etc…Now is the time to revive the economy,” Kejriwal said in a digital press briefing.Kejriwal did not mention any measure on interstate travel, which the Centre has allowed in its fresh order. Also, barber shops, spas and salons, which too have been permitted, will not open in the national capital immediately. On Monday night, Delhi’s coronavirus dashboard stood at 10,054 cases — of which 5,409 are active — and 160 deaths. Thus far, 4,485 people have recovered from the disease in Delhi. All relaxations announced by Kejriwal will be applicable across Delhi, except in containment zones which will allow the movement of essential personnel alone and have stricter perimeter control. At present, Delhi has 73 containment zones, which can broadly be defined as the epicentre of an infection. Kejriwal said taxis and cab operators, such as Ola and Uber, are allowed to function with each vehicle carrying a maximum of two passengers and a driver. The same rule will be applicable for private cars. Pillion-riding will not be allowed in case of two-wheelers, and carpooling/shared services will be prohibited.Buses will be allowed with a maximum of 20 passengers in each vehicle, and all people boarding them will be screened. “Drivers will be instructed to sanitize the seats after each passenger deboards,” Kejriwal said.“Grameen Sewa vehicles can operate with a maximum of two passengers, maxi cabs with a maximum of five passengers, and rural transport vehicles (smaller buses) with a maximum of 11 passengers,” he said.While Sunday’s federal guidelines permitted interstate movement of passenger vehicles and buses with “mutual consent” of the states and the Union Territories (UTs) involved, confusion prevailed on Monday at Delhi’s borders with Gautam Budh Nagar (Noida) and Gurugram that have been sealed. Authorities in both satellite towns later clarified that stringent restrictions at their borders will continue, and people — except health care personnel — will need passes like before to cross over. In addition to the announcement on public transport, another significant step announced by Kejriwal was the opening of marketplaces and all shops. In line with central guidelines, the chief minister allowed stores in marketplaces to function, but they will have to follow an odd-even rule.Under the standard operating procedure prepared by Delhi, shops will open on alternate days on the basis of shop numbers. This will ensure that half the shops will open on one day, and the other half the next day and so on. However, no such rule will be applicable to shops selling essential items such as medicines, fruits and vegetables, groceries, dairy products, books and stationery. Also, standalone shops and shops in residential areas will be exempt.Kejriwal approved the functioning of industries, albeit with staggered timings, and allowed all government and private offices to begin operations. His government did away with the curbs asking private offices to function with just 33% of their staff from office. But at the same time, he advised firms to encourage employees to work from home to the extent possible.“Industrial firms whose name starts with M/S A to M/S L may function from 7.30 am to 5.30 pm, whereas firms whose registered name starts with M/S M to M/S Z may function from 8.30 am to 6.30 pm,” the Delhi government order issued late on Monday night said.Kejriwal also allowed construction activities, but said workers must be from Delhi. Earlier, the government allowed resumption of work for projects in which labourers were available on site.The chief minister announced that weddings (with a maximum of 50 people in attendance) and funerals (with a maximum of 20 people in attendance) will be allowed in the city, in another move that is in line with the Centre’s guidelines.“Social distancing is a must. Complaints of violation can force us to take strict measures and scale up restrictions…Wearing of masks is also mandatory for individuals when they are outdoors and in workplaces…All workplaces must have provision for sanitizer and hand wash,” he said.Activities and services, which are banned across the country, will continue to be prohibited in Delhi. These include metro services, educational institutes, hotels and bars, shopping malls and theatres, social and political gatherings, and gyms and swimming pools, among others. The restriction on non-essential travel between 7pm and 7am will continue. “Prohibition on outdoor movement of people aged 65 and above, children aged 10 or less, pregnant women and people with health ailments...will continue,” Kejriwal said.Just as the central guidelines, the Delhi government’s order too asked employers to put in their “best efforts” to ensure that the contact-tracing Aarogya Setu app was “installed by employees having compatible mobile phones”. It asked district magistrates to “advise” individuals to install the application, which was previously mandatory for all government and private employees.The order did not specifically mention e-commerce, but central guidelines say e-commerce players are allowed to deliver both essential and non-essential items across the country, barring containment zones. “All other activities will be permitted (industrial/commercial) except those which are specifically prohibited... However, in containment zones, only essential activities shall be allowed,” the order said.Jugal Kishore, head of community medicines department in Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital, said the purpose of the lockdown was to flatten the curve. “To think that infections will stop with an indefinite lockdown is wrong. Phased relaxation of the lockdown is necessary now. What we need now is more cooperation from people...,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/except-metro-all-public-transport-thrown-open-in-delhi/story-eEiejPUKRDncIERw0WgVcJ.html
19-05-2020||Chandigarh||Stone pelters again target cops on patrolling duty in Chandigarh’s containment zone||In yet another attack on frontline workers implementing lockdown orders, a police official in a patrolling party was targeted by stone-pelting mobs protesting stay-at-home orders in Dhanas, a containment zone for Covid-19.This is the second such incident in seven days targeting policemen patrolling Kacchi colony in Dhanas. On May 11, constable Anil Kumar was pelted with stones as he tried to stop a few men from leaving the sealed zone. Police said Monday’s incident occurred when head constable Gurdev Singh stopped some people from leaving the area. “Gurdev stopped them from moving out as per prohibitory orders, but the residents, presumably feeling restless and agitated due to the ongoing lockdown, started pelting stones at him,” said a police official familiar with the matter.Investigating officials identified the attackers as Bala, Birju, Chamkila and Dharminder and booked them under section 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter a public servant from his duty), 353(assault or criminal force to deter a public servant from discharge of his duty) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code.They are yet to be arrested even as attempts are being made to identify others involved in the offence.An eyewitness in the case, head constable Lakhwinder Singh, said he saw “Bala and Birju provoking others to pelt stones at the police who were asking people not to move out. Gurdev received injuries on his arm and was rushed to Government Multi Speciality Hospital(GMSH-16) for treatment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/stone-pelters-again-target-cops-on-patrolling-duty-in-chandigarh-s-containment-zone/story-Ae5RTgKFiG20msk2v74jgM.html
19-05-2020||City||Migrant workers wait in the scorching heat, sleep on gunny bags, waiting for a chance to go home||Five-year-old year old Ajay Pandey had fallen asleep in the scorching heat outside the Radha Soami Satsang Bhawan in Zirakpur.The space outside the Bhawan was their refuge as Pandey and his family of 10 waited for a train from Mohali Railway Station close by to take them home to Hardoi in Uttar Pradesh.“We have been camping here for the last six days. There are too many people registered for travel by train so we are waiting for our chance,” said Pandey. What mattered was that he was going back to his village and that his parents, Lallan, a factory hand, and Shakuntala, a domestic helper, had not been working since the March-end lockdown to prevent the transmission of Covid-19.“We get food but we have to wait for quite some time for it,” said Pandey.Though people at the Radha Soami Satsang Bhawan had set up a tent for the workers and organised food and water for them, children like Pandey were sleeping on the gunny bags spread out near the roads, using dupattas to cover themselves.During the day many people sat hunched up near some barricades outside the bhawan to protect themselves from the blazing sun.Guddu, who worked in a packaging factory in Dera Bassi and was waiting with his family of five for a train to Bihar and his final destination Chapra, said: “We have given up our rented accommodation and handed over the keys to the landlord, who virtually threw us out for not paying rent.” Mukesh, waiting to go to Lucknow, had been asked by his factory owner to leave. “They had initially paid us wages but we have been out of work for two months now. All the money has been spent, we have nothing left to eat, so the only option is to go home.”Showing his mobile phone, he said, “ I have got registered but have yet to get a ticket, so I will wait.” On options to stay back in Punjab, the workers said some people who had tried to go back to their rented homes were not allowed to enter by the people there. The police had been called. “They will take us to quarantine centre so it is better to stay here and wait,” said Babbu Lal, a construction worker who lived in Baltana and was returning to his home to Sitapur district in Uttar Pradesh.On handling the return of migrants to their homes, Kuldeep Bawa, sub divisional magistrate, Dera Bassi, said, “A very large number of migrants got registered from Dera Bassi subdivision but the number of seats is limited. We cannot send all at once but we are trying to accommodate as many migrants we can. They refuse to move from here.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/migrant-workers-wait-in-the-scorching-heat-sleep-on-gunny-bags-waiting-for-a-chance-to-go-home/story-RuuFG0HJ78UD0KyCK08atI.html
19-05-2020||Chandigarh||₹90 lakh collected from challans during lockdown in Chandigarh||The traffic police have collected ₹88.9 lakh from challans since the Covid-19 lockdown was imposed on March 23, as per data available with the challaning branch. As per the data, 11,938 challans and 758 e-challans have been issued so far.Offences related to driving licences were most prevalant with 7,293 driving without or with expired licence, and 5,021 failing to produce a driving licence on demand by a police officer. Also, 5,626 violations have been registered for driving without or with expired insurance and 4,671 for driving without registration certificate.As many as 8,000 vehicles have been impounded during this period.Deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Kewal Krishan said, “The traffic police is now setting up nakas to ensure social distancing is being followed inside the vehicles, and people are venturing out with masks.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/90-lakh-collected-from-challans-during-lockdown-in-chandigarh/story-m6JDuBIKa6DCnQwR0WGPMJ.html
19-05-2020||Mumbai||HC stays coercive recovery of PF contribution for community health workers from BMC||In a relief for the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), the Bombay high court (HC) last week restrained the provident fund (PF) commissioner from taking any coercive action against the civic body for recovering ₹23.64 crore towards PF contribution for its community health volunteers (CHVs). The liability of the civic body to pay PF contribution for CHVs is under a cloud of strong suspicion, said justice Nitin Sambre while imposing the restraint.The judge was hearing petition filed by BMC, after its appeal against an adjudication order was dismissed last year on June 28. The adjudication authority had held that the CHVs were workmen, as contemplated under the Employees Provident Fund and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952, and the civic body was liable to pay their PF contribution. The liability was fixed at ₹23.64 crore.It was argued on behalf of BMC that CHVs were not its permanent employees, as no wages are paid to them. It was claimed that only honorarium is paid to them and thus, the PF Act was not applicable CHVs and the orders passed by PF authorities were without jurisdiction.In support of the argument, the civic body pointed out that in a 2006 reference, an industrial court has held that CHVs are not permanent employees of the corporation.The civic body also pointed out that CHVs were initially appointed under a project floated by the central government, which was later taken over by BMC. However, the nature of duties performed by CHVs cannot be termed as one that of employees of the corporation.Justice Sambre also took into consideration the fact that the January 2017 HC orders on petitions filed by some CHVs declaring that they are employees of the civic body had been stayed by the Supreme Court in August 2018.As a consequence, prima facie, liability cannot be fastened on the municipal corporation, said justice Sambre, adding that the Apex court’s conclusion on the status of CHVs as workmen will have direct bearing over the outcome of this petition. HC directed that there shall be no coercive recovery of the PF contribution till the decision of the Supreme Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-stays-coercive-recovery-of-pf-contribution-for-community-health-workers-from-bmc/story-AXHYDNgXb4f2f8IuOfxccI.html
19-05-2020||Mumbai||Level-2 fire breaks out Mazagaon building||A level-2 fire broke out in two flats of residential building Shirin Manzil in Mazagaon on Monday afternoon. No injuries were reported. Four fire tenders and four jumbo tankers were immediately sent to the spot to douse the fire. The fire started on the sixth floor of the seven-storey building around 12.22pm. Fire brigade reached the spot around 12.34pm and doused the fire by 2.35pm.Prabhat Rahangdale, chief fire officer of the Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB), said, “Two people were rescued from the fifth floor and were brought to a safe zone using the staircase while seven other residents were stranded at a safer location on the seventh floor.” While the fire was confined within two flats on the sixth floor, the entire floor was engulfed in heavy smoke.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/level-2-fire-breaks-out-mazagaon-building/story-tCfON9SjTAcV7BUcILGM1O.html
19-05-2020||Chandigarh||History-sheeter held for groping 18-year-old girl at Mauli Jagran||A history-sheeter was arrested for sexually harassing an 18-year-old girl in Mauli Jagran on Sunday. Police said the victim alleged that she strolling near her house, when the accused, Lakhan, 23, groped her. “He also threatened her of sexual assault if she resisted his attempts of getting close to her,” said a police official. On the girl’s complaint, the Mauli Jagran police station officials booked Lakhan under Sections 354 (sexual harassment) and 354-A (sexual harassment and punishment for sexual harassment) of the Indian Penal Code. Police said he was facing trial in 13 other cases, including attempt to murder, theft and rioting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/history-sheeter-held-for-groping-18-year-old-girl-at-mauli-jagran/story-8jw5hmepROjMiAy6ZxthJJ.html
19-05-2020||City||Mohali admin to observe strict vigil to check sale of illicit liquor||Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said a strict vigil will be maintained in the district to check bootlegging or sale of illicit liquor. He said that round-the-clock manning of all the entry points will be done by a joint team of police and excise department.“Mohali has a unique position as it borders Chandigarh and Haryana and is also a part of the tricity. Further, as liquor is comparatively cheaper in UT and Haryana, there is a high possibility that residents buy liquor from these places. Due to this, surveillance of all the entry points to the district is mandatory,” said Dayalan.Formal orders for the same have been issued and additional requirement of force has been communicated to the director general of police, he added.DC further said that the field teams headed by excise Inspectors, halqa patwaris and panchayat secretaries will survey old buildings, marriage palaces, rice-sellers, roadside dhabas, godowns, cold storages and slums, where there is likelihood of storage of illicit liquor. “The lambardars will also be responsible for reporting storage and movement of illicit liquor within and to/from their respective villages. The district head GOG will ensure strict vigil on the same in their areas,” he said. “Further, to check pilferage, distilleries and bottling plants shall be jointly manned by a team of police and excise. Strict watch will also be kept on outward movement of trucks and it will be ensured that they carry the required documents such as bills and e-waybill,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-admin-to-observe-strict-vigil-to-check-sale-of-illicit-liquor/story-CXH4aWuPJu0fKyhwJL5CNJ.html
19-05-2020||Mumbai||No need to declare Uran wetland as conservation reserve, JNPT tells forest dept||The country’s largest container port has informed the Maharashtra forest department that the Belpada area in Uran should not be declared a protected zone. This comes after the mangrove cell, earlier this month, wrote to Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT) conveying its intention of declaring the area a conservation reserve. However, JNPT’s response on May 15, which was shared by the forest department, states the site was ‘erroneously termed as a wetland’.JNPT’s letter highlighted the Wetland (Conservation and Management) Rules 2017 do not include river channels, paddy fields, human-made waterbodies, salt pans etc. as wetlands. “In view of the above, it is submitted that the port land appears to be erroneously termed as wetland. It is requested that this land should not be proposed as wetland under Wildlife Protection Act (WPA), 1972,” the letter undersigned by SV Madabhavi, chief manager (port, planning and development), JNPT, read. It further added, “We assure you, utmost care will be taken at the time of development of nearby area in accordance with law.”According to Bombay Natural History Society’s (BNHS) 2019 report on the status of coastal wetlands in Navi Mumbai, the 30-hectare Belpada wetland is situated between two narrow creeks on the east and west sides and surrounded by mangroves. With 30 bird species, including nine migratory bird species, a maximum of 605 individuals can be spotted at the site. There are five near-threatened and five Schedule I species under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972 including lesser and greater flamingos, Eurasian spoonbill, Black-winged kite, and Western Marsh harrier. Citing the BNHS report, the mangrove cell had proposed the site as a conservation reserve for three Uran wetlands – Panje, Bhendkhal and Belpada. Cidco is yet to respond to the forest department’s letter on the status of Panje and Bhendkhal. Conservation reserves are demarcated as protected areas in buffer zones of bird migration corridors, national parks, wildlife sanctuaries or reserved and protected forests.Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forest (mangrove cell), said, “Even though the land is in possession of JNPT, it is still government land. It serves the purpose for everyone if they (JNPT) protect this area as a wetland and ensure no development at the site.”Of the 2,987 hectare of JNPT port land, 1,172 hectare is agricultural land, 1,262 hectare is salt pans, and 553 hectare is government owned. The mangrove cell said Belpada forms a part of the 553-hectare land which falls under the state’s purview.JNPT responded to HT’s query and said that letter was written to clarify BNHS’s report which showed Belpada as a wetland. “We have objected to the same stating that the land is owned by JNPT. We have all the official documents to prove that this is a commercial and agricultural land. We would like to further state that the land in question is not a wetland as has been stated in the BNHS report. Our response has been given to the mangrove cell as per their request for our comments. We remain a socially conscious organisation, committed to the environment, community, stakeholders, employees and the industry,” said a JNPT spokesperson. Mangrove chopping, wetland reclamation in other areas of UranEnvironmentalists have identified mangroves being hacked at Sonari (Sawarkhar village) near Karal junction in Uran across a kilometre-long and 100-foot wide patch. A complaint was filed by Nandkumar Pawar, representing Vanashakti, alleging that the work was being done by JNPT. “These violations continue despite lockdown. Officials carrying out such illegal activities need to be booked,” said Pawar. Members of the Bombay high court-appointed mangrove committee said they have taken cognisance of the complaint. “While we will not be holding any meetings during lockdown via video-conferencing, all complaints are being forwarded to the local district administration for further action,” said a member of the committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/uran-not-a-wetland-no-need-to-mark-it-as-protected-zone-jnpt-tells-forest-dept/story-dMIEeQYalVJQREjjwOuINM.html
19-05-2020||Mumbai||CM Uddhav Thackeray takes oath as member of Council||Maharashtra chief minister and Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray on Monday took oath as a member of the legislative Council (MLC) at Vidhan Bhavan. This is the first time that the Sena chief has become a member of the state legislature. He is the second one from the Thackeray family to be inducted in the legislature after his son Aaditya Thackeray.Thackeray was accompanied by his wife Rashmi and son Aaditya at the oath-taking ceremony held in the Central Hall, Vidhan Bhavan. He is one of the nine candidates who were declared elected unopposed to the Council last week for a term of six years.His election to the House was crucial for him to continue as the CM, as he had to fulfil the constitutional requirement of becoming a member of either of the Houses before May 27 – six months from the day he took oath as chief minister.Speaking to reporters outside Vidhan Bhavan, Shiv Sena MP and party secretary Vinayak Raut said, “All Shiv Sainiks are proud that their leader is taking oath as a legislator today. The state has got good leadership [under Thackeray].”After the ceremony, Thackeray, along with wife Rashmi, son Aaditya and chief secretary Ajoy Mehta, went to Raj Bhavan and met governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari as a courtesy call.Besides Thackeray, the other new members of the Council – Shiv Sena’s Neelam Gorhe; Nationalist Congress Party’s (NCP) Shashikant Shinde, Amol Mitkari; Congress’s Rajesh Rathod; and Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Ranjitsinh Mohite Patil, Gopichand Padalkar, Pravin Datke, and Ramesh Karad –also took oath. There were initially a total of 14 candidates in the fray for the nine MLC seats, but later four candidates – two each from the BJP and NCP – withdrew their nomination, while an independent candidate’s nomination was rejected, thus paving way for all remaining candidates to be elected unopposed.The election for the nine seats was pushed back owing to the Covid-19 outbreak, thus bringing political uncertainty over the state. The state cabinet had recommended that Thackeray should be nominated by Maharashtra governor as the MLC polls were deferred to maintain stability of the state government. However, as the governor did not take the decision, Thackeray was prompted to raise the issue with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Later, the MVA constituents and governor Koshyari wrote to the Election Commission to hold the legislative council polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cm-uddhav-thackeray-takes-oath-as-member-of-council/story-d0GzH0DwGcyMItdoB8x1OJ.html
19-05-2020||City||1,208 migrants leave Mohali for UP||As many as 1,208 migrant workers left the Mohali railway station for Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh on Monday. The district administration provided packed food, water and biscuits to the passengers while making sure that they adhered to the guidelines of social distancing and were screened thoroughly before they boarded the train. 500 STUDENTS SENT BACK TO LADAKH Meanwhile, the district administration sent back as many as 500 students stranded here back to their homes in Ladakh on late Sunday evening. Around 20 buses took these students to Jammu, from where they were taken to Ladakh. Before their departure from the collection point at Nayagaon, all the students were thoroughly screened. They were also provided with food and water by the district administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1-208-migrants-leave-mohali-for-up/story-UCGtN8rzULpsMN2mF5EZIL.html
19-05-2020||Mumbai||2,033 fresh cases take Maha tally past 35,000||Maharashtra on Monday recorded more than 2,000 Covid-19 cases for a second day in a row with 2,033 new infections, taking the total to 35,058. On the shortfall of 28 cases when adding the latest infections to Sunday’s tally, Archana Patil, director, directorate of health services, said the reconciliation of figures with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) portal is still in process. “The issue of difference in figures will be resolved in eight-10 days,” she said. The state has 25,392 active cases, said health officials. The state’s death toll went up to 1,249 after 51 deaths were reported on Monday. Of the deaths, 23 were in Mumbai, eight each in Navi Mumbai and Pune, three in Jalgaon, two each in Aurangabad, Ahmednagar, Nagpur and one each in Palghar and Bhiwandi. Also, one patient from Bihar died in Mumbai on Monday. Twenty-one patients were above 60 years of age, while 19 were in the age group of 40 to 59 years and the remaining 11 were below the age of 40 years. Of the deceased, 35 had high-risk co-morbidities, including diabetes, hypertension and heart ailments, health officials saidMumbai, the worst-hit city in the country, recorded its second-highest one-day spike after Sunday with 1,185 new cases, bringing the count to 21,335. On Sunday, the city had recorded 1,595 cases. The toll of Mumbai is 757.State health minister Rajesh Tope has already indicated that there will be a rise in fresh cases with the peak likely to be by June-end. However, officials said that it may come down after 14 days when the fifth incubation period of the virus will be completed.As the Maharashtra government is set to further relax restrictions in lockdown 4.0, the number of fresh cases in the state has started soaring, indicate the figures. 3 days, the state has recorded 19,561 cases. It means on an average, it is getting around 1,500 fresh cases daily. On Sunday alone, it registered 2,347 cases — the highest single-day spike. The state is experiencing a significant rise since May 6, when it has started getting over 1,000 cases daily. In May (last 18 days) alone, the state has reported as many as 24,588 cases, whereas the total number of cases registered in April was 10,201.Till April-end, the number of new cases was ranging around 500 after which it turned into four digits since May 6.The fresh infections since then are as follows: May 6 - 1,233; May 7 - 1,216, May 8 - 1,089; May 9 -1,165; May 10 - 1,278 cases, May 11 – 1,230; May 12 – 1,026; May 13 – 1,495; May 14 – 1,602, May 15 – 1,576; May 16 – 1,606 and May 17 – 2,347 cases. Besides, on May 10, the state also declared 665 cases respectively, saying that they were registered in the few days prior to that and are being declared as per the Central government’s directive to bring the data at par with the national figures on the ICMR website. The first case of coronavirus in the state was reported on March 9 and it took 30 days for the state to cross the 1,000 mark. For the first 10,000 cases, it took 53 days.Between April 19 and 30, the state was getting around 500 new cases daily. Dr Tatyarao Lahane, director, Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER), said, “We will have to wait for another 14-day incubation cycle to complete (by May 31). After this, the rise is likely to come under control and gradually, the decline is expected. However, if it does not happen, then it may lead to community transmission stage.”He also said that the state has not reached the community-transmission stage — where the source of the infection is unknown — as there is no exponential growth in the number of fresh cases.As the cases are rising, the number of recoveries, too, has also jumped to 8,437 as 749 patients recovered on Monday.The doubling rate in the state has improved to 11.1 days from 10 days, said Dr Pradeep Vyas, principal secretary, state health department. The state government wants to take the doubling rate to 20 days soon.The state government had also resolved to bring the entire state into the green zone by this month-end, which seems unlikely as, according to the health minister, the peak has not come yet and is likely to come by June-end. “All the predictions about rise in cases in Mumbai and Maharashtra have not come true, but the numbers are rising and the peak is yet to come. Going by the mathematical predictions, actual peak is likely to come by June-end. It means by June-end, the number of cases in Mumbai will increase four times. We are trying to prevent it from coming, but have to be prepared for the worst and hope for the best,” Tope said.So far, 18,678 people have been kept in institutional quarantine in the state and over 3,66,242 people have been put under home quarantine. On Monday, the state also completed 56 days of lockdown, which was imposed from the midnight of March 23, a day before the nationwide lockdown was imposed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. It was partially lifted on April 20 in areas where there are no cases or are minimal in number. The announcement of more relaxations is likely to come on Tuesday.On Monday, the health department also declared to have conducted 2,82,194 tests at various public and private facilities across Maharashtra. Of them, 2,47,103 people tested negative. State currently has 1,681 active containment zones. A total of 14,041 survey teams, comprising doctors and assisting staff, have screened more than 60.47 lakh people.The mortality rate of the state has come down to 3.62% (1,198 deaths) on Sunday, from 7.41% (148 cases) on April 13. However, it continued to be higher than the national mortality rate of 3.15% (3029 deaths) till Sunday, revealed the data of the state medical education department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2-033-fresh-cases-take-maha-tally-past-35-000/story-8AbdnNxUwRTQlcXOz3lZOP.html
19-05-2020||City||Thane corporator attempts to kill himself||A corporator of Thane Municipal Corporation attempted to end his life on Monday. His family members immediately took him to a private hospital and he is said to be out of danger.A police officer said, “We are taking statements of the family. We will take action after investigating.”The police suspect domestic issues to be the reason as his wife had filed a domestic violence case against him in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-corporator-attempts-to-kill-himself/story-YT1DZsYLwBa2TU709vbriP.html
19-05-2020||Chandigarh||Pay property tax with rebate by July 31: Chandigarh MC||The Chandigarh municipal corporation on Monday issued a public notice asking all assessees, both residential and commercial, to pay property tax with rebate before July 31. Residential properties will get 20% rebate while commercial units can claim 10% rebate. The advanced demand notice has already been dispatched to all assessees. After July 31, 25% penalty along with interest on the principal will be applied.People can pay the tax online through the e-sampark portal (http://sampark.chd.nic.in) or at e-sampark centres. Economically weaker section, defence personnel, veterans and widows are exempted.As of now, Chandigarh has 90,000 residential assessees and 23,000 commercial and institutional assessees.The MC collected Rs 52 crore tax in 2019-20. This fiscal, it targets Rs 48 crore tax collection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pay-property-tax-with-rebate-by-july-31-chandigarh-mc/story-wc0N9xVh84MGnFVBIqDd1N.html
19-05-2020||Chandigarh||Urdu in focus during webinar at Panjab University||The department of Urdu, Panjab University, organised a webinar on the spread of the Urdu language to various parts of the world, on Monday.The online event, titled “Urdu ki nayi bastiyan”, aimed to promote the language, and use of Urdu poetry for a stress-free life, amid the Covid-19 lockdown. Head of department (HoD) of the Urdu department, Jammu University, Shohab Inayat Malik, spoke about the Urdu language spreading to various different regions in the world. “The language, which was born in India, is making its ways to many parts of the world, including USA, UK, Iran and Egypt,” Malik said.As many as 50 faculty members, research scholars and students of Urdu literature from various universities of the country participated in the webinar.Ali Abbas, coordinator of the Urdu department, PU, spoke on the emerging trends in Urdu literature. He said people from various parts of the world learn Urdu for various reasons, including being able to watch Bollywood movies. He added that people migrating from India and Pakistan to other parts of the world has paved the way for the language to grow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/spread-of-urdu-language-to-various-parts-of-the-world-discussed-at-panjab-university/story-UPsFs2zOJNBuYRBpkIAObI.html
19-05-2020||Chandigarh||Refer those with flu-like symptoms to testing centres, Chandigarh dispensaries told||The Chandigarh health department has directed all dispensaries to refer all patients showing symptoms of influenza-like illness (ILI) or severe acute respiratory infection symptoms for testing at the nearest Covid-19 sampling centre. The health department has also sought intervention from resident welfare associations (RWAs) for reporting those showing symptoms such as fever, cough, cold and difficulty in breathing in the neighbourhood. Dr G Dewan, director of health services has written to all RWA presidents, asking them to start neighbourhood vigil. “Neighbours can inform the health department about any person living near by and suffering these symptoms,” he wrote.“We are encouraging people with flu-like symptoms to report to the hospital for screening. These days, fewer patients are reporting to flu clinics and emergency OPDs with flu like symptoms, which is why we had fewer cases in these four days. We have now requested RWAs for vigilance so that no cases goes unnoticed.”The UT health department has also decided to train residents wherein master trainers will teach them the ‘do’s and don’ts’ and protocols pertaining to the virus.The department has also requested councillors of all the wards or areas to disseminate awareness regarding Covid symptoms and to encourage residents to visit GMSH- 16 or GMCH-32 in Chandigarh if they show any symptoms, for which they will be ferried in the health department’s ambulance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/refer-those-with-flu-like-symptoms-to-testing-centres-chandigarh-dispensaries-told/story-BIh2yQ8mydqCxVvFSDXGON.html
19-05-2020||Chandigarh||Bumpy rides for Chandigarh as lockdown delays road repairs||Potholed and damaged city roads are once again drawing attention after Chandigarh administration allowed movement of vehicles in the third phase of the lockdown. Around 60% of recarpeting projects from 2019 are still pending, said officials and the exodus of migrant labour has cast a long shadow on forthcoming recarpeting projects for this year.Speaking about the quality of roads, Kuljinder Singh Sra, general secretary of Sector 33-B resident welfare association (RWA), said the potholes were detrimental to vehicles. Dr Jagpal Singh, president of Sector 35 RWA said that potholes were placing two-wheelers riders at risk, as they are wearing masks which reduce visibility and can lead to accidents.General secretary of Sector 40-C RWA, SK Khosla stressed that recarpeting must be done before monsoon begins in a month, or the work will be delayed till October.Discussing the status of recarpeting, the civic body’s chief engineer Shailender Singh said, “Currently, around 60% of last year’s recarpeting work is still pending which will cost nearly ₹30 crores. It was delayed in winters and then due to the Covid epidemic. First, the pending work must be completed before this year’s recarpeting work is scheduled.”Singh said repairs will likely be affected by mass movement of migrant labourer, many of whom are employed by the building and roads wing of MC’s engineering department. “We have to first check how much manpower we have, since several workers may have left for Uttar Pradesh and Bihar via Shramik trains.” He said the department was awaiting clarity about carrying on road maintenance work in lockdown phase four.Earlier many employees of the engineering department had been deputed with Sector Response Teams (SRT) that checked the functioning of shops and supply of fruits and veggies. However, these SRTs were dissolved by MC commissioner KK Yadav on May 15 and officials are back on regular maintenance duty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bumpy-rides-for-chandigarh-as-lockdown-delays-road-repairs/story-tcIw7VhCFEejLETXSLqHnN.html
19-05-2020||Chandigarh||Summer vacation extended till May 31 in Chandigarh govt schools||There are over one lakh students in 123 government and eight aided schools in the city||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/summer-vacation-extended-till-may-31-in-chandigarh-govt-schools/story-wU6Ol2dLeMP8T0R4O0RjaI.html
19-05-2020||City||Green signal to public transport in Mohali||Given further relief by the ministry of home affairs (MHA) in new guidelines for lockdown 4.0, the Mohali district administration on Monday gave the green signal to a new set of activities. Night curfew will continue as before between 7 pm to 7 am and movement of individuals for non-essential activities remains strictly prohibited. However, no passes are required for movement between 7am and 7pm.In his order, district magistrate Girish Dayalan has given the go ahead to four wheelers, two wheelers, taxis, cab aggregators, bicycles, rickshaws and auto rickshaws to operate during relaxation hours on certain terms. Four-wheelers and three-wheelers can have a maximum of 3 persons including the driver, while two-wheelers cannot have a pillion rider. Car-pooling and sharing taxis is prohibited. They must also comply with the standard operating procedure (SoP) of the state transport department. Mohali administration has permitted the opening of shops offering services, such as saloons, barber shops, spas etc, from 7 am to 6 pm, but shopping malls, shopping complexes are to remain closed. All shops in rural areas can continue to stay open, while those in urban areas can continue to remain open only on staggered rotational basis (odd/even), so that 50% shops are open on any given day.Restaurants and eateries can open for home delivery and take away, but dine in is prohibited. Services provided by the self-employed such as electricians, plumbers, IT repairs is now allowed. Stores selling essential goods such as food groceries, milk, medicines, restaurants and eateries (home delivery and take away), workshops and service centres for automobiles and liquor vends have been exempted from staggered rotation.Government and private offices can open without separate permission, but to prevent crowding, only 50% staff can be called at a given time. However, this will not apply to central and state government offices dealing with emergency, essential and Covid-19 duties.Banks may operate during their usual working hours without restrictions, with full staff if required, so as to facilitate increased public dealing. Gatherings at weddings and funerals can not exceed 20 people. Specific permission for these may be obtained from the SDM concerned. Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan, on Monday, gave permission to 7 sewa kendras in the district to resume services with immediate effect. Sewa kendras at DC office complex; primary health centre Phase 3-B1; SDM office Kharar; Sunny Enclave; Lalru; Sports Complex Lohgarh, Zirakpur; and Majri in Kharar block will resume services, with timings from 9 am to 5 pm. Appointment for these services can be taken via the cova app dgrpg.punjab.giv.in.These sewa kendras will provide only 153 services listed by Punjab government in the first phase. Furthermore, at type–1 sewa kendras there will be 5 operators, at type–2 there will be 3, while only 2 operators will be deputed at type–3 sewa kendras. The Mohali civic body is set to begin public dealing at its Sector 68 office from Tuesday. MC commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg issued orders to mark circles on the floor at service windows for the public to ensure social distancing.Garg said guidelines for lockdown 4.0 permit public dealing at local bodies offices so MC is opening service windows for people to deposit fee and other activity at suvidha kendras.Public dealing benches for complaint officers such as sanitation, public health, electricity and engineering branches, are also open for public dealing.Garg said, “Now people can deposit property tax at suvidha kendra windows. We have marked circles for people to ensure social distancing norms.”Schools, colleges, educational institutions, coaching institutesHotels, bars, restaurants (for dine in), hospitality servicesCinema halls, entertainment parks, theatresShopping malls and complexes Gyms, swimming poolsAuditoriums, assembly halls and such placesGathering (social, political, sports, cultural, religious congregations, etc) Places of worship, religious places (closed for public)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/green-signal-to-public-transport-in-mohali/story-cTyE0Jqgsev54Uso6zXAGO.html
19-05-2020||Chandigarh||Hockey legend Balbir Sr still critical in Mohali hospital||In semi-comatose condition, hockey legend Balbir Singh Senior continues to be on ventilator support. The 95-year old has been hospitalised in Mohali for 10 days, wherein he had three cardiac arrests. Now, a fresh clot has been detected in his brain. “The clot, however, is insufficient to explain continued unconsciousness. Secondary near pan-resistant klebsiella infection and fresh pneumonia patches have been detected in his lungs,” said his maternal grandson Kabir. Doctors are trying to treat the new complications, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hockey-legend-balbir-sr-still-critical-in-mohali-hospital/story-d4mSj0OA8toLor9PA9ID0L.html
19-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh consumer courts resume hearings via videoconferencing||After nearly two months of remaining closed, Chandigarh consumer courts have resumed proceedings. More than 60 cases were heard on Monday via video conferencing (VC).Due to the Corona epidemic, consumer courts had closed on March 23, but now the commission has resumed hearings from 11am to 1pm on all working days. From Monday to Wednesday, forum 1 will hold hearings from 1.30pm to 2.30 pm while forum 2 will hear cases from 3 pm onwards. Meanwhile, on Thursday and Friday, the timings of the two forums will be inter-changed.“Around 25 cases were heard by the state consumer disputes redressal commission which also delivered 20 judgements on the first day. The district consumer disputes redressal forum–1 heard 25 cases while forum 2 heard 14 cases,” said advocate Pankaj Chandgotia. For this week, around 350 cases are listed for proceedings.The litigant can email a copy of cases or applications to the court. The email IDs are scdrcchandigarh19@gmail.com for state commission, registrardf1@gmail.com for district forum 1 and registrardf1@gmail.com for district forum 2.In case of difficulty, the commission’s secretary can be called at 9988871967.Advocates or parties are to send the VC link on their mobiles in advance and all advocates are required to adhere to the dress code as prescribed by Supreme Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-consumer-courts-resume-hearings-via-videoconferencing/story-jvkayMqxyUnGffVR038pVM.html
19-05-2020||Chandigarh||Two booked for murder bid in Chandigarh||Two men are absconding after stabbing a Sector 29 resident in the stomach at the mango garden in the area, police said on Monday. Victim Asif on Sunday evening had intervened in a brawl between his brother Wasim, 22, and the duo, Shoaib and Ajay, when he was attacked, said police. He has been hospitalised. The accused have been booked for attempt to murder. Police is trying to ascertain their whereabouts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-booked-for-murder-bid-in-chandigarh/story-WZ1rfotuQt73YdVp5gW6nL.html
19-05-2020||City||Runners lace up for indoor event||Akhil Kamdar, 38, a resident of Ghansoli, had been missing going for his daily runs. On Sunday, he got an opportunity to do what he loves the most and completed 21-km.“It was difficult for me to believe that I can run long distance inside the home. It felt wonderful to run in an event after such a long gap,” said Kamdar. As several marathoners have not been able to practise during lockdown, two groups from Thane district organised the indoor one-day marathon on Sunday. A total of 2,197 runners joined the event on social media from across the world. All of them made space inside their house by removing the furniture.Furious Running Culture Foundation (FRCF) and Runners First India, that have been holding indoor marathons regularly, had organised Virtual Event India Indoor Run 2020. Milan Rai, 43, president of FRCF, completed 42km. The Belapur resident said, “The event aimed at lifting spirits of all and showing solidarity to all our corona warriors who have kept us safe.”Manisha Jain, 42, a resident of Parel, completed 10km and said it was a challenge to run indoors.“I heard some of my friends regularly run 21 km inside their homes. So, I too participated and I enjoyed although I had to keep my pace very slow,” said Jain.Prema Rajaram, 38, a resident of Kolkata, completed 21km by running in circles on her terrace and indoors.“I ran 13 km on my terrace and then I completed the remaining 8km inside my house barefoot. I ran from my kitchen to my balcony and back and this taught me that nothing can stop you if you are determined. I am definitely going to run a longer distance next time,” said Rajaram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/runners-lace-up-for-indoor-event/story-6Cu0DsAPJ30OvqkxX72j6H.html
19-05-2020||Chandigarh||Can my child be sent to a shelter? Request from parents leaves Childline staff baffled||They are getting a number of calls from parents seeking expert advice on dealing with behavior issues in children confined indoors for weeks due to the Covid-19 lockdown in Chandigarh, but two requests have left people manning Childline 1098 flummoxed. Two sets of parents have called up enquiring if their children can be sent to shelters.Confirming that the requests had been made, Sangeeta Jund, director Childline 1098, a 24-hour free emergency phone service for children in need of aid and assistance, said two couples had called to say their children were “virtually out of their control”. While one couple was currently being counselled with the child, the other request from the parents of a 16-year-old girl had come as no surprise.The teen had earlier been sent to a shelter because she had run away from home, kept making self-harm threats and refused to give up smoking. Her parents had often sought help from Childline, which responds to the emergency needs of children and also links them to relevant services for their long-term care and rehabilitation.Child moved to shelter“Her mother says they cannot handle the child,” says Jund, adding that the teen has been moved to a home again.Commenting on children without any clinical disease, Dr. Sunil Gupta, MD psychiatrist, Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) says, “The situation is exposing the faults in our parenting. As far as parenting is concerned most of the parents try to control their children rather than understand . If we focus on the understanding part we might sort it out in better way.”Of other distress calls coming in, Jund says, “It’s happening probably because of people getting too stressed because of anxieties due to the Covid-19 outbreak. With schools closed and movement restricted, wards are stuck at home. Also, parents are burdened with work pressure as well as other issues.”In most cases, a child who had had a standoff with his or her parents was not admitted to a shelter, Jund said.Minors elope, call for help after restaurant closedThe helpline has been flooded with requests during the lockdown. Staff had to recently rescue two minors who had eloped from home but got stranded in another city and finding no hotel or restaurant open had panicked and called for help.In another case, a student called demanding a smartphone saying his parents had restricted his phone use.A number of poor children too had called saying they had problems accessing online classes because of lack of smartphones. “In this case we told them we do not provide such devices,” Jund adds.“Parenting has become a little bit tougher. Children are staying indoors all the time. This results in behavioural changes and emotional issues. Also, the screen time (spent before TV, with mobile phones) has gone up because of the online classes these days,” says Nitin Goyal, president, The Parents’ Association, Chandigarh.“Parents have to be more supportive and understanding. The golden part of the lockdown is that families are spending more time together,” he adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/can-my-child-be-sent-to-a-shelter-request-from-parents-leaves-childline-staff-baffled/story-IIGaJifTtmEIcbvoQgKNMN.html
19-05-2020||Chandigarh||Lockdown 4.0 no different, migrant miseries continue||From walking hundreds of miles on the highways to queuing up government offices, the ordeal of migrant labourers seems to be endless. Agitated migrants continued to visit the office of Ludhiana deputy commissioner (DC) with a host of complaints even on the first day of lockdown 4.0 on Monday.A group of garment factory employees, who walked all the way from Tajpur Road, were seen arguing with a security of guard at the DC office. Mohd Tazim, of Araria district of Bihar, said that despite having a booking, they were denied to travel on a train to Bihar on May 14.“We were told to get a medical clearance for travelling in bus but were given no information on where to catch a bus to Bihar. We had got a medical screening conducted at the civil hospital with great difficulty. We remained stranding for hours without food and some of us received a cane on the back. We are suffering for obeying the law while many who have bribed the agents and middlemen have reached their destination,” said Tazim.UNEMPLOYMENTS, HUNGER MAKING THEM LEAVEThough shops and factories opened on Monday, many migrants are still keen to go back to their homes as they have been fired from their jobs and have no money to buy essentials, including food. Leena, a woman who along with her husband and two children longs to return to their native village at Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh, said, “Our two children are asking for food but we do not have anything left at home. We had last received government ration 10 days ago which has finished. Even if we will receive ration we do not money to refill the cooking gas cylinder.”She said she was not enrolled under the government’s Ujjawala Yojana scheme under which three cylinders are given free of cost. “I am not alone there are many residents, in the area where we live, who are not covered under the scheme and are going through a tough time.” Subash Chandra, a migrant who had been residing with his family in a rented accommodation in Mundian Kalan, said he was returning to his village in Aligarh as he no longer has a job. “I was working in an auto parts manufacturing unit at Phase 5 Focal Point. The factory has opened but the employer has asked me and some more employees to not come to work. It is useless to stay here when there is no work,” he said.As per data on the Punjab helpline portal, as many as 16 lakh migrants have applied to go back to their home states, of which 50% are from Ludhiana.On Monday, around 22,000 migrants left for their native places via trains and buses from Punjab. Of this, 13,000 migrants are from Ludhiana alone. As many as 15 buses carrying migrants left for 10 districts in Uttar Pradesh, including Mathura, Meerut, Saharanpur, Bulandshahar, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Ghaziabad, Aligarh, Muzaffarnagar, Baghpat and Hapur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/lockdown-4-0-no-different-migrant-miseries-continue/story-6nf9B2N8U53lVvcdrqQSVO.html
19-05-2020||Chandigarh||After 2 months, Chandigarh opens up again||Under the lockdown 4.0, Chandigarh will witness resumption of public transport, opening up of all markets, beginning of public dealing in government offices and home delivery of cooked food from restaurants among other relaxations to be allowed after nearly two months.The relaxations come into force at midnight of May 18. In line with the central government’s order on phase four of Covid-19 lockdown, the UT administration on Monday issued fresh guidelines allowing a series of relaxations from 7am to 7pm. The city was placed under lockdown on the midnight of May 3, after the curfew imposed since March 24 was lifted.UT administrator VPS Badnore after holding a high-level meeting on Monday allowed resumption of public transport, including buses, autos, and taxis. All non-AC buses will be operated in the tricity with the consent of neighbouring states, but will run with 50% capacity only.The Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) will at first put in service nearly half of its fleet of more than 400 buses. UT transport department officials said they are in talks with their counterparts in Haryana and Punjab for plying of CTU buses in the entire tricity.ODD-EVEN ONLY IN CONGESTED MARKETSAll shops in the city, including those in Sector 17 and on the sector dividing roads, will be open with staggered timings (see box) from Tuesday.However, the odd-even formula will be applicable for shops in congested markets. Salons, spas, barber and massage shops in all markets will remain closed. Shopping malls, cinemas and theatres will also remain shut.Consumption of liquor, paan, gutka or tobacco in public places is not allowed. Shops will ensure minimum six-foot distance among customers and will not allow more than five persons on the premises at a time.CITY IS STILL UNDER RED ZONEChandigarh will continue to be in the red zone till further orders. However, there will be a regular review of the status by the UT health department. Six containment zones as delineated and designated earlier will continue. There will be a regular review of the boundaries of containment zones and other additions/deletions of areas.In the containment zones, only essential activities will be allowed. There will be a strict perimeter control to ensure that there is no movement of people in or out of these zones, except for medical emergencies and for maintaining supply of essential goods and services.UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida, said: “We have allowed relaxations as per the central government guidelines. We will also be regularly reviewing the red zone tag for the city. Now the difference between containment and non-containment zones is of primary importance.”REGULATIONS ON PUBLIC GATHERINGS TO STAYWedding-related gatherings are to ensure social distancing, and the maximum number of guests allowed is 50. In funeral-related gatherings, maximum number of attendees can be only 20. In order to implement these measures, the UT order states that the district magistrate will deploy executive magistrates as incident commanders in the respective local jurisdictions. SALONS TO OPEN IN MOHALIWhile Mohali has also implemented relaxations on vehicular movement similar to Chandigarh, when it comes to markets, even salons and spas have been allowed to operate from 7am to 6pm.The malls will remain closed and odd-even rule will continue for shops providing non-essential items in urban areas, but all restaurants and eateries can open for home delivery. Even services provided by electricians, plumbers and IT repairs are allowed. Meanwhile, the Mohali civic body is all set to begin public dealing at its Sector 68 office from Tuesday. Other government and private offices can open without separate permission, but to prevent crowding, only 50% staff can be called at a given time. Banks may operate during their usual working hours without restrictions, with full staff if required, so as to facilitate increased public dealing. Meanwhile, seven sewa kendras in the district will resume services — at DC office complex, primary health centre in Phase 3B1, SDM office in Kharar, Sunny Enclave, Lalru, sports complex in Lohgarh, Zirakpur, and Majri in Kharar — from 9am to 5pm. STATUS QUO IN PANCHKULA, FOR NOWMeanwhile, the Panchkula administration on Monday did not issue any fresh orders with regards to opening of shops and other activities. Panchkula deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said: “Though we have received official orders from the state government about the new guidelines, we have not taken any new decision for the district. Shops and most other activities will remain to operate as per the existing orders and instructions.” Fresh orders are expected after a meeting on Tuesday.(with inputs from Mohali and Panchkula)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/after-2-months-chandigarh-opens-up-again/story-48a7MMj1FnPWj1vQAXINOO.html
19-05-2020||Delhi||Migrants arriving in Delhi stranded at Ghazipur||Shafiqul Islam, a migrant labourer, had arrived in Delhi from Jammu on a special train on Saturday. The 26-year-old helplessly wandered around the city for two days in search of a bus to his village near Bihar’s Katihar city. He reached the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border in Ghazipur on Monday, deciding to walk home.Islam had gone to Jammu with a group of 36 migrants in search of work three days before the nationwide lockdown was announced in March. “We could not earn a penny. We exhausted all our savings in the last two months. Some of us had to ask our families to send money. When we got to know that trains are going to Delhi, we decided to book tickets and leave. We arranged for ₹1,300 each for the tickets to come here. Now, we don’t know what to do since buses are not available,” he said.The group has walked for two days continuously, climbing flyovers and bridges, in the scorching heat. “We heard today (Monday) that buses are ferrying people to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar from Ghazipur. We walked for four hours from the inter-state bus terminal (ISBT) to Ghazipur, only to get disappointed further. We are ready to go home on foot, if the police allow us,” he said.Migrant workers arriving in Delhi on trains from other states have been stranded at the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border in Ghazipur, as they try to make their way back home to Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Bihar.With trains from several states operating only up to Delhi, those who had made reservations on other trains till their home towns are waiting at the railway station, while many, who have run out of money, have decided to walk home.Deepak Kumar, chief public relations officer of the Northern Railways, said, “Those who are arriving in special trains, and are not from Delhi, are arranging for their travel home on their own. We are only facilitating their travel in trains.”A spokesperson for the Delhi government said that the parent states of the migrants should arrange for their transport home, since the Delhi government has “no role” in this process.A senior official in Delhi government’s transport department said, “The Delhi government is not mandated to arrange inter-state transport. We are have already arranged the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) buses to drop them at the borders. From tomorrow, all our state-run buses will start plying within the city. Also, cabs, autos and para-transit modes will be available. So, things will further smoothen out.”Scores of migrants have been rendered helpless upon reaching the national Capital, in the absence of inter-state transportation facilities. A majority of such migrants present at Delhi-UP border on Monday said they cannot afford to pay hefty fares to travel home.Ram Bahadur, 53, who worked as a welder in Jammu, arrived in Delhi on Monday morning. He has been trying to reach his home town in UP’s Faizabad since April 24 — the day his 28-year-old daughter died. “After trying for a month, I got a ticket confirmation on Saturday. The DTC bus outside the railway station dropped us at the Delhi-Noida border. Where do I go now? I could not see my dead daughter, but I at least want to go home to be with my inconsolable wife. She will die of grief,” said Bahadur.A senior police official said that the majority of the migrant workers gathered at Delhi-UP border in Ghazipur in the last two days had arrived in New Delhi on special trains operated from other states, with their final destinations in Uttar Pradesh. “These people were dropped up to the Ghazipur border in DTC buses. Many even walked up to the border, trying to cross over into UP, but were not allowed by the UP police. As a result, they were stranded here,” said the official.Gangesh (who goes by his first name), 26, a migrant worker from UP’s Unnao said that the state government should not have started the trains before arranging for inter-state buses. He said that his group of five had booked bus tickets to Unnao with a travel agency. “The five of us had paid ₹14,000 together. We had to ask our parents to send money. We were told that the buses will be available here, but when we reached, there was no bus operating. We don’t even have money to buy food. Why doesn’t the government think about people like us before taking these decisions?” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/migrants-arriving-in-delhi-stranded-at-ghazipur/story-o900YJo9I1qhFISDKuNUBM.html
19-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt allows all construction work to resume in city||The Delhi government’s decision on Monday to allow all construction activity in the city to resume has come as a huge relief to builders and property owners, whose projects have been stuck for over 50 days, as well as lakhs of construction workers who can now get back to work and earn a livelihood.Builders and construction firms in the capital welcomed the decision and said they will start work at the earliest after assessing the market situation. Harvinder Singh, managing director or Gridtech Construction Pvt Ltd, said, “We are ready to start the construction work at our sites. I got calls from my labour contractors who have assured me that they have the manpower ready to start work immediately. We will do a basic assessment and resume work.”Although the Delhi government had allowed some construction work to resume, based on the Union government’s order in the first week of May, it was restricted to projects where labour was available on-site. This meant that only construction work on government projects could start.While construction firms are ready to start work, property owners said shortage of labour may hamper the progress on private projects.Prem Prakash Gupta, a property owner in Kotla Mubarakpur, said his residential project is stuck due to a shortage of hands. “I started the work a few months before the lockdown. I continued to pay the labour for almost two months after the lockdown, as I didn’t want them to go. But last week, more than half of them left for their home towns. The cost of construction material has also increased. ”For labourers, the decision has come a ray of hope after months of struggling to a make ends meet. Narendra, a labour contractor in Rohini, said property owners are not ready to restart work owing to fears of contracting Covid-19. “We have been told to wait. People are reluctant to allow workers inside their houses. It will take some time before our work picks up,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-allows-all-construction-work-to-resume-in-city/story-szAznFdGuSXf6JJGm5yVJK.html
19-05-2020||Delhi||Firms want to restart work in full swing, but fret over employee safety||With the Delhi government allowing all government and private offices in the city to resume operations with full workforce from Monday, while at the same time urging private establishments to encourage employees to work from home as much as possible, companies are mulling over plans to bring back its staff to offices while ensuring their safety.After chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s address on Monday, announcing relaxations during the fourth phase of the nationwide lockdown, which was enforced on March 25 to curtail the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), many companies said employee safety and risk mitigation will be their priority in the coming weeks. Some said they might follow the CM’s advice and continue to allow employees to work from home for another two weeks.Many employers said while resuming work in full swing will help companies bounce back from the financial crisis they currently find themselves in, the health of employees was of primary importance. “We welcome the Delhi government’s announcement, but it is a double-edged sword. The number of Covid-19 cases is still on the rise in the city and if even one employee is found Covid-19 positive in our office, then it will collapse our entire system. All factors have to be considered before we call employees back to offices,” Pallavi Dev Burman, talent acquisition head at Star Technology Developers, a tech company in south Delhi’s Nehru Place, said.She said while her company is yet to decide on whether to call employees back to office from this week, the concerns of having to bring about a complete revival of company’s fortunes runs just as deep as the safety of all employees.“Safety is definitely our priority, but even one positive case can lead to added costs as our office premises will be shut completely,” she said.A call centre service, MeetRix Private Limited, based out of Green Park, said since they have nearly 150 employees on their two floors of office space, the number of employees being called in will depend on how close to the workplace these employees reside as well as their work profile. The limited space in office will not allow social distancing, the company executive said.“We understand that the government is yet to restart Metro services, which is the primary mode of transport for most of our employees, many of whom are women. Those living close by and having private vehicles may be called in. It will also depend on whether they are needed urgently in the office or if they manage from home,” Gurpreet Singh Chahal, co-founder MeetRix, saidMany employees were worried that not resuming Metro services in the national capital will limit travel options.“Not everyone can afford to travel in cabs and auto rickshaws daily. There should have been some consideration for people who travel on public transport as well,” Rituraj Ray, who works in a private firm in Vasant Kunj, south Delhi, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/firms-want-to-restart-work-in-full-swing-but-fret-over-employee-safety/story-wzLXEkbr9Up1xgDTZjR1WL.html
19-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s transport network back today||Over 50 days after all public modes of transport were taken off the national capital’s roads, as part of the nationwide lockdown from March 25 to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the Delhi government Monday said it is opening up all modes of transport, except the Metro, to allow free movement of people in the city. This means that Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) buses and cluster buses, all forms of cabs, autos, electric and cycle rickshaws, gramin sewas and RTVs (small sized buses) will be allowed to operate from Tuesday, in addition to private cars and two-wheelers.While making the announcement during a digital media briefing Monday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said all transport modes will be allowed to operate with restricted passenger intake and adherence to strict social distancing norms. No such movement, except for essential services, will be allowed in the 73 containment zones of Delhi. “Auto-rickshaws, e-rickshaws and cycle rickshaws will run, but will be allowed to have only one passenger each. Likewise, taxi and cabs will be allowed to carry a maximum of two passengers. Gramin sewa, eco-friendly sewa and phat-phat sewa will also have a cap of two passengers per vehicle. Maxi cabs will be allowed up to five passengers, an RTVs up to 11 passengers,” Kejriwal said.He added that the drivers will have to sanitise the vehicles after every run. On buses, the chief minister said, only 20 passengers will be allowed at a time and the transport department will ensure social distancing at bus stops. In the case of private four-wheelers, two people in addition to the driver will be allowed, whereas for two-wheelers pillion riders will not be allowed. A senior government official said passes will no longer be required for movement inside the city. Shreya Gadepali, transport expert and south programme lead at the Institute for Transportation and Development (ITDP) ,said besides providing citizens access to services, transport undertakings must also prioritise the health and safety of its staff, who are completely exposed to the disease, on the road and at its facilities. “These efforts will go a long way in building public trust and ensuring that people continue to use public transport. Covid-19 provides Indian cities with an opportunity to transform their public transport services by improving user experience through technology and reforming informal transit services,” she said. 4,000 MARSHALS AT 740 BUS STOPS Transport minister Kailash Gahlot said his department has identified 740 bus queue shelters that see a heavy rush throughout the day. The department will deploy 4,000 marshals at these stops in two shifts to ensure social distancing and to conduct thermal screening of those waiting to board. Senior officials said the department will to procure contactless thermal screening devices within the next three days. Delhi has a total of 6,487 buses, which include 3,746 buses of the DTC and 2,741 cluster buses.“We will be deploying as many as six marshals at busy bus queue shelters such as those at AIIMS, Badarpur and Uttam Nagar terminals. Once a bus has 20 passengers, it will stop only to allow passengers to alight, and only then will new passengers be allowed to board. There will be one passenger per two seats and all will be seated in zigzag pattern. Entry will be through the rear door and exit through the front door,” Gahlot explained. When asked about contactless ticketing, the minister said the One Card will continue to be accepted. But, since many may not have these cards, usual paper tickets will issued as of now. “As a long-term solution, we are already working on a system wherein passes can be issued to passengers. Women will continue to get free rides,” he said. Wearing masks will be mandatory, but downloading the Aarogya Setu app will not be compulsory. The buses will be sanitised after every trip and conductors and drivers will have to undergo mandatory thermal checks before starting each trip. NO CLARITY ON INTERSTATE MOVEMENT The Delhi government order on Monday did not mention specifically about interstate movement of people. The order only stated that interstate and intrastate movement of medical professionals, nurses and paramedical staff, sanitation personnel and ambulances will be allowed, “without any restriction”. It also added that interstate movement of all types of goods and cargo carriers will be allowed.Since the government has allowed government and private offices to open, and industries and construction activities to resume, lack of clarity on interstate movement may pose a difficulty to staff residing in neighbouring cities. The order also did not talk about contract carriage buses, private buses which are extensively used as chartered buses by office-goers.Senior government officials acknowledged that the point was missed in the guidelines issued Monday.“Since there is no mention about contract carriage buses, it is unlikely that private bus operators will resume their services for now. Unless our buses are requisitioned by the government, normal services for office purposes and so on are unlikely to start,” Harish Sabharwal, general secretary of Delhi contract bus association, said.Gahlot said he will soon convene a meeting to resolve the issue.NO SHARED RIDES IN CABSMobile app-based cab aggregators Uber and Ola said they will restart services in the capital starting Tuesday. The Delhi order stated that no pool or shared rides will be allowed in the city till May 31. In a statement, the Uber India team said a passenger should not sit in the front, next to the driver.“If you are booking a car or an auto ride, to maintain social distancing, we recommend not more than two riders should travel at a time, besides the driver,” it said. Ola said driver-partners operating three and four-wheelers on its platform will be available but “with the highest levels of safety precautions”.“This also brings relief to millions of drivers-partners whose livelihoods depend on serving citizens on a daily basis. In all of the 160+ cities where Ola is now operational, enhanced safety protocols are applicable across every single trip. This includes compulsory mask usage for driver-partners and passengers, complete sanitization of cars post-trips, adhering to social distancing norms by limiting passengers to two,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/capital-s-transport-network-back-today/story-sdhPEkCf0W7URpiXaQ8g6H.html
19-05-2020||Delhi||Traders express doubts over odd-even scheme even as Delhi shops get ready to open up||After a two-month hiatus, a half of Delhi’s shops will finally be up and running from Tuesday, based on the odd-even formula devised by the Delhi government and with proper social distancing norms in place. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday announced that shops in the city will reopen with odd-even formula except those selling essential items — including books and stationery shops, electrical goods shops selling fan etc, in markets and market complexes — which will remain open on all days. Most traders welcomed the decision as a much needed step towards stepping towards normalcy. Some, however, were apprehensive about the implementation of the odd-even scheme.The odd-even scheme of the Delhi government is a traffic rationing measure, taken up during peak pollution season mostly, under which private vehicles with registration numbers ending with an odd digit is allowed on roads on odd dates and those with an even digit on even dates.As per the scheme, even-numbered shops will open on even numbered days and vice versa.Hours after Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced the relaxations in lockdown norms on Monday, market associations held meetings to chalk out the plan with help from local police.Almost all markets such as Connaught Place, Sarojini Nagar, Lajpat Nagar, Greater Kailash-I, Kamala Nagar Market, among others, have decided to reopen shops from Tuesday. But the Chandni Chowk Sarv Vyapar Mandal said they will keep the heritage market shut till May 31. Parts of Sadar Bazar market is also likely to remain shut due to its proximity to containment zones in the area. Traders here said that there was no clarity as to which shops can open here.“We have voluntarily decided to remain shut till May 31. The government has announced relaxations without declaring red, orange and green zones, which should have been done first. The number of cases are on a rise and our area is close to a containment zone,” said Sanjay Bhargava, president of Sarva Vyapar Mandal, which has around 800 shops on the main road.Traders from Karol Bagh market associations too appeared divided over opening of shops and said they will take a decision in a day or two.Chandni Chowk market is close to containment zones of Chandni Mahal, Nabi Karim, Sadar Bazar, and Ballimaran. The district has reported at least 100 positive Covid cases so far. Traders in adjoining bylanes (katras) — which house a number of wholesale markets such as Khari Baoli (spices) and cloth market, among others — said they were yet to take a decision regarding reopening of shops.While majority of markets have agreed to open, market associations expressed apprehension about the implementation of odd-even scheme. We have decided to open shops as per government order, but implementing the odd-even scheme is not practical,” said Sanjiv Mehra, president of Khan Market Traders Association.He added, “There are two-three shops registered under one number (for example, 1, 1A and 1B). How will we decide which shop to open and which one to close? We will take up the matter with the government.”The problem was the same in Kamala Market and at Greater Kailash. “There is no clarity on how it will be implemented as there are two-three shops in one property on different levels,” said Naresh Sambher, president of north Delhi’s Kamala Nagar market.In some buildings, there is a shop in the basement. “What happens to the basement shops? When will they open? We are trying to work out the details,” asked Rajinder Sharda, president of GK-I M-Block market.The Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) on Monday urged the Delhi government to reconsider the odd-even scheme and provide an alternative. “The odd-even concept will not work smoothly for business operations. Traders are interdependent for procurement of goods. The government should come up with an alternate scheme,” said Praveen Khandelwal, secretary general, CAIT.Brajesh Goyal, national convener, chamber of trade and industry (CTI), said decision to open shops on odd-even arrangement was taken with the consent of traders unions and it was in their interest. “We will start disinfection drive in markets tomorrow starting from Kashmere Gate area,” said Goyal. For industrial area, the government has proposed staggered timing. Ashish Garg, secretary of Narela Industrial Complex Welfare association, “The working hours are anyway restricted from 7am to 7pm. Staggered timing will only further bring down the number of hours of work.”Despite implementation issues, traders are happy to be back in business.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/traders-express-doubts-over-odd-even-scheme-even-as-delhi-shops-get-ready-to-open-up/story-iY5newCUU0vXnRB5gHSrhJ.html
19-05-2020||Football||Working from home, Juan Ferrando gets ready for FC Goa||Even otherwise, Juan Ferrando would possibly have been working from home. That’s how coaches in the Indian Super League (ISL) operate at this time of the year, three months prior to pre-seasons. Ferrando says he is getting ready to be Sergio Lobera’s successor at FC Goa like he would in “normal times”.Ferrando is linking up with the fitness coach every morning, getting the team doctor on WhatsApp to inquire about previous injuries, watching games to understand the Indian Super League (ISL) and preparing individual programmes for players who can train outside. “This is a moment to learn,” he says.Also Read | Premier League clubs agree to return to small-group training from TuesdayIf that sounds like a lot of work in the time of lockdown, it is. After all, Ferrando is replacing someone who took FC Goa to two ISL semi-finals, one final and a Super Cup title in three seasons. In 2020-21, FC Goa will also be the first team from India in the main round of the Asian Champions League by topping the league phase of ISL 6.“I go for a run for one or two hours every day to take my mind off football. The rest of the day is about programme, planning and players,” says Ferrando, 39, on a Zoom call, from his home in Barcelona.Then he lowers his glasses, looks into his screen as if to digitally lock eyes with the questioner, and says: “But this is not really football. One month without it is okay but two months is so hard… and you can’t see Espanyol play at home.”Also Read | The 10 youngest debutants in 21st century in LaLiga historyUncertainty in the time of Covid-19 also isn’t helping the new coach “close” his squad - especially new foreign players - by August-September for six or eight weeks of pre-seasons assuming ISL 7 would begin in late October. “The pre-seasons prepare muscles and players’ psychology because the next season would be a hard season,” says the man who has a doctorate from the University of Zaragoza’s department of medicine. Ferrando’s thesis was on how body vibration training helps spot jumps of professional footballers. He has also been fitness, tactical and technical coach at Espanyol’s football school. Ferrando’s interest in sports science - he has degrees and diplomas from University of Barcelona - took him to Arsene Wenger’s Arsenal and to Brighton when Gus Poyet was manager. It was an opportunity to learn coaching, says Ferrando who was also the personal trainer of Cesc Fabergas and Robin van Persie.A coach since he was 18, Ferrando has also learnt from Marcelo Bielsa - “crazy coach but an inspiration about lot of things,” he says about the Argentinean - Pep Guardiola, Thomas Tuchel, Manuel Pellegrini and Antonio Conte who “was perfect at Chelsea (in 2016-17).”Intensity, innovation, verticality, the importance of possession and attacking football unite those famous names. Statements such as “protecting the ball is good,” and “keeping the ball is important” followed from Ferrando. “If the focus is positive, of course, you can lose but maybe you will have more options to win,” he says. It’s an idea Lobera, who like Ferrando spent time at FC Barcelona, wedged deep in FC Goa; one he fine-tuned with increased defensive discipline in 2019-20 before the sudden departure.“There are, however, certain tactical details I would want to change but let that stay a secret,” says Ferrando.Now with Mumbai City FC, Lobera sealed a 2021 Champions League berth for FC Goa. Indians clubs have done poorly in Asia last season and that was in the AFC Cup, the continent’s second-tier competition. “Our mentality will be competitive,” says Ferrando.Will ISL allowing five imports in the playing 11 and the continent following the 3+1 rule, including one player of Asian origin, add to his squad-building problems? “We will take the best three players who can help the team. In this moment, we are in that position,” says Ferrando the fifth Spanish coach in the 10-team ISL.As assistant-coach Ferrando was part of Moldova’s FC Sheriff campaign in Europe. His biggest moment as a coach though came in Greece when Ferrando helped Volos NFC win successive promotions and move from third to first division between 2017 and 2019 before leaving because of an eye problem. “We had players hungry about their future and players with experience. There was also a good feeling in the dressing room,” he says.To create that feeling of team spirit, it is crucial that everybody enjoys what they are doing, he says. “You need to find exercises to enjoy. I am not a military type coach like many Serbians and Russians,” says the polyglot who can speak Spanish, English, Russian, Greek and Catalan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/football/working-from-home-juan-ferrando-gets-ready-for-fc-goa/story-ZsxEq1AH6HoSXjIpIVaM8O.html
19-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi ends 14-day mandatory quarantine for all health workers||Doctors, nurses and other staff members at hospitals designated to treat Covid-19 in Delhi will no longer be put under 14-day quarantine after their Covid-19 duty, according to the new guidelines of managing health care workers issued by the Delhi health secretary Padmini Single on Monday.Staff will have to go into quarantine only if they have had a “high risk exposure” such as them treating Covid-19 patient or handling their samples without proper personal protective equipment (PPE) or probable breach of PPE protocol. The quarantine will also be required if a staff comes in in contact with a positive person ( within a distance of 1m) for more than 15 minutes without mask, face shield or goggles.“Regular quarantine of health care workers after performing duty in Covid-19 areas is not warranted except as elaborated under protocol of high risk and low risk contact,” the order reads.So far, most Covid-19 hospitals have been following a rotation roster, whereby the staff worked for 14 days and remained in quarantine for 14 days. “As the incubation period of the virus is 14 days, a quarantine and then testing of those working in Covid-19 wards would ensure that they do not pass on the infection to their families or to other patients that they might treat afterwards,” Dr Shivaji Barman, president of the Federation of Resident Doctors’ Association (FORDA), said.On Monday, FORDA wrote to Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan asking him to reconsider the guidelines of the health ministry.“The virus has an incubation period ranging from two to 14 days following exposure. There are multiple instances of doctors testing positive for Covid-19 following the second test or subsequently. Also, many asymptomatic patients are testing positive for Covid-19. Under the current circumstances, a 14-day quarantine along with adequate testing for all doctors following Covid-19 duty is a necessity in order to prevent spread of the infection among their colleagues, family members and in the community,” the letter said.As for non-Covid-19 hospitals, the order directs them to create separate isolation wards to admit suspected Covid-19 patients referred by flu corners to ensure that the infection does not spread.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-ends-14-day-mandatory-quarantine-for-all-health-workers/story-wp44edKWrlqr8h40CHT0mN.html
19-05-2020||City||Liquor shops set to open, those in malls to remain shut||As the Delhi government eases restrictions in the fourth phase of the nationwide lockdown, 700-odd liquor shops in the city – including around 100 that have been functioning since May 4 – are likely to open later this week, a senior government official said on Monday.All 700-odd shops are either standalone enterprises or located in markets. None of them are in shopping malls. The Delhi excise department is likely to issue a separate order on liquor shops in a day or two, the official said.Delhi has 864 liquor shops, of which around 150 are located in malls and prohibited spaces such as the airport. Such liquor shops will not be allowed to function under the Union home ministry’s guidelines released on Sunday, the official said.Out of the 700 shops, around 200 have been identified as ‘standalone’ and would be allowed to function all days a week. The remaining 500 will have to follow the odd-even rule applied to all markets, under which enterprises would be allowed to operate on alternate days depending on their shop number, the official said.In the last two weeks, around 100 liquor shops in the city that have been functioning saw massive crowds and rampant violation of social distancing norms, forcing the government to start an e-coupon system under which one can apply online and visit a designated liquor shop on a given date and time to avoid queues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/liquor-shops-set-to-open-those-in-malls-to-remain-shut/story-eilInZcqFROy9z1cdwPgTL.html
19-05-2020||City||PPCB collects samples as Ludhiana MC treats sewage with poly aluminium chloride||While the municipal corporation (MC) is conducting a trial to treat the sewage with poly aluminium chloride at Jamalpur sewage treatment plant (STP), the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) on Monday collected samples of the treated water to check effectiveness of the chemical compound in treating the waste.On May 5 also, the PPCB and MC had collected samples of the STP, but as Tajpur Road dyeing industry was closed at that time, no industrial waste was coming into the plant.Now, with commencement of the industrial operations, PPCB has again collected the samples. Officials said they also need to check the effect of the chemical on the water that comes out of the STP after treatment.“The treated water gets into Sutlej River through Buddha Nullah and we need to ensure that it does not affect the water quality and aquatic life,” said PPCB superintending engineer Sandeep Behl.MC superintending engineer Rajinder Singh said, “The government and the civic body are working to stop industrial waste from getting into the STP. But even with the industrial waste getting into the plant, the trial is giving good results. The black water that earlier used to come out of the STP has diluted and water quality has also improved. The MC has also sent the samples for testing separately.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ppcb-collects-samples-as-ludhiana-mc-treats-sewage-with-poly-aluminium-chloride/story-XtuqUCeoUui9P20Mr6JQDI.html
19-05-2020||City||Delayed by lockdown, construction of Kharar-Mullanpur road begins||Delayed by a month, work on the new 8-km road, connecting Mullanpur in New Chandigarh, to Kharar on the National Highway 21, has finally kicked off.Earlier, Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) had set April 15 as the date to start work on the road, which will help commuters avoid journey via Chandigarh or Kurali while travelling between Kharar and Mullanpur. The road is also aimed at reducing traffic in Chandigarh and Mohali by serving as a ring road to connect Kharar with Zirakpur as well. It will also connect to the Kurali road that leads to Rupnagar and Morinda.GMADA has acquired around 120 acres for the 200-foot wide road, which will begin from New Sunny Enclave (near KFC), connecting to Mullanpur, New Chandigarh near the cricket stadium. The Rs 130-crore project is scheduled to be completed in 18 months. Land for the project has been acquired in Sunny Enclave, Daun village and Mundi Kharar.GMADA chief engineer Sunil Kansal said, “The project was delayed due to the nationwide lockdown to prevent the spread of Covid-19. The agency, Rajinder Infrastructures Private Limited, which has been allotted the project, has already begun its survey and work will be completed in nearly 18 months.”The 18km stretch connecting Kharar to Zirakpur was completed around four years ago, but work on the road connecting Kharar to New Chandigarh has been pending over last four years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delayed-by-lockdown-construction-of-kharar-mullanpur-road-begins/story-4D5BbKdTeuQDMJBh5mrz8H.html
19-05-2020||City||One-month-old girl from Kalyan tests positive||A one-month-old girl from Kalyan is the youngest to be tested Covid positive among the 30 new cases reported in Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) on Monday.The baby got infected from her father, who works for the railways. He was infected around four days ago while her mother has also tested positive to the infection, said KDMC officials.All three are admitted to Tata Amantra quarantine centre at Kalyan-Bhiwandi road. The total positive cases in Kalyan-Dombivli are 530. As per the health department, among the new cases are four senior citizens.Recently, a 20-day-old boy, the youngest to test positive so far, recovered and was discharged from hospital.On Monday, KDMC commissioner Vijay Suryavanshi visited the civic healthcare centres at Ansari Chowk, Retibunder, Tisgaon, Kolsewadi, Chikanghar and Mohane in Kalyan to learn about the problems at these centres. The civic chief also visited residential areas in Kolsewadi, Chikanghar and Tisgaon in Kalyan where the KDMC is conducting surveys and spoke with residents.“The civic body chief gave suggestions to improve facilities at the health care centres and fever clinics. He also asked more testing to be done of people who have symptoms, travel history and also maintain a data of all the surveyed people,” said Madhavi Pophale, public relations officer, KDMC. As per the KDMC, there are 104 containment zones in Kalyan-Dombivli and it has surveyed 6.35 lakh people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/one-month-old-girl-from-kalyan-tests-positive/story-2UmB2GTAOIfzTDb5hVPvEN.html
19-05-2020||Pune||For every 100 tested in Pune, 11 are positive Covid-19 cases||The city reported five deaths on Monday and 102 fresh cases of Covid-19 (coronavirus), taking the death toll to 199 and progressive positive cases to 3,598. A total of 32,336 samples have been tested till date in the city, of which 1,419 were tested on Monday and so, with 3,598 positive cases for every 100 people tested, 11 test positive in Pune city. Meanwhile, 49 people were discharged on Monday taking the final count of discharged to 1,800. Currently, there are 1,599 active cases in the city of which 148 are critical patients. The five deaths include a 75-year-old male from Camp admitted to Jehangir Hospital on May 8 and declared dead on May 17 who was also suffering from diabetes, hypertension and pneumonia with MODS. A 48-year-old female from Hadapsar was reported dead from the Sassoon Hospital on Sunday who was suffering from acute respiratory failure due to bilateral pneumonitis along with Covid-19 positive with myocarditis with newly diagnosed diabetes with post TB bronchiectasis with lung fibrosis with adrenal insufficiency.A 48-year-old male from Sahakarnagar was reported dead on Monday from the Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital who was admitted on May 7 and declared dead on Monday. The person was also suffering from sepsis shock with MODS.The fourth death was of a 43-year-old male from Tadiwala road who was declared dead on Monday at the Jehangir Hospital. He was admitted to the hospital on May 15 and suffering from diabetes and MODS.The fifth death was of a 67-year-old male from Market Yard admitted to Ruby Hall Clinic. The patient also suffered from myocarditis with ischemic heart disease, diabetes and morbid obesity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/for-every-100-tested-in-pune-11-are-positive-covid-19-cases/story-sSItjzXgFIGmDHH7cbxxwN.html
19-05-2020||Pune||Air, river, noise pollution in Pune fall by unprecedented levels: PMC report||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) carried out a scientific study of the impact of lockdown on Mula-Mutha river, noise and air pollution and found out that the city has performed exceedingly well and the readings are even better than those recommended by the central pollution control board (CPCB).According to environment officer Mangesh Dighe, the PMC carried out this survey in March and April, and some of the data was collected till May 15. “We have received surprising results and Mutha river quality is getting improved drastically and some parameters are better than the norms given by CPCB,” Dighe said.“There are three parameters that show the water quality in a river. First is the biochemical oxygen demand (BOD), secondly the chemical oxygen demand (COD) and thirdly the dissolved oxygen (DO). In all the three parameters there is a drastic improvement and BOD and COD have come down below the CPCB parameters. The main reason for this is commercial establishments, offices, hotels have closed down so the sewage generation has reduced,” Dighe added.Before March 2020, the BOD level was 61.61 in Mula-Mutha river which came down to 32.09 in April during the lockdown. The COD level was 159.68 before lockdown which came down by 67.7 per cent.“The pollution control board expects it below 150 but it came down drastically. The dissolved oxygen level improved from 3.19 to 4.6 which is good. If all these levels are maintained, the river would remain clean and pollution-free,” Dighe said.Like the river, there is also an improvement in noise pollution. Noise levels in the city have come down in all the three categories which are commercial, residential and silence zones. The noise level came down below those prescribed by the pollution board.Dighe said, “As the number of vehicles on the road has come down in the city during lockdown, the air quality has improved drastically. PMC collected data from the Indian institute of tropical meteorology (IITM) and found that on all parameters there is an improvement in the air quality of the city.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-pollution-at-a-record-low-readings-better-than-cpcb-recommendation/story-jjSg2HSylBriIJ3cmue2rN.html
19-05-2020||City||Class 12 students resume preparations as CBSE declares datesheet for pending exams||City students appearing for the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) Class 12 examinations heaved a sigh of relief and resumed their preparations after the board declared the datesheet for the pending exams on Monday.Majority of the students said that during the last few days, they were perplexed about the conduct of the remaining examinations. They had last appeared for an exam on March 18 after which the board postponed the exams in view of the coronavirus outbreak.Srishti Verma, a Class 12 commerce student of BCM Senior Secondary School, Basant Avenue, said, “Since the imposition of the lockdown, I have started reading newspaper daily to keep myself updated with the current affairs and also read up online regarding the situation globally. Now, I will plan my day in a way that I can continue reading novels along with the preparations for the examinations. I am left with only two exams -- computer science and business studies.”Another Class 12 student of humanities stream from Guru Nanak International Public School, Gaganpreet Kaur, said, “I was left only with Punjabi examination, but was shocked on not finding it in the datesheet declared by the board. When I called up my class in-charge, I got to know that the subject’s date will be decided by the regional office and will be intimated to us soon.” “Meanwhile, I have started preparing for the examination.”CBSE city coordinator Paramjit Kaur said, “We are coordinating with the regional office, Chandigarh, to know the date for Punjabi examination. As soon as we get to know the date, it will be intimated to the board affiliated schools and students across the city.”GUIDELINES FOR CENTRESAs per the CBSE guidelines, at the examination centres, 12 students will be accommodated in one room at a distance of 1 metre each and one invigilator will be deployed in each room. Earlier, as many as 24 students were accommodated in one room with two invigilators.IMPORTANT INSTRUCTIONS TO BE FOLLOWED STRICTLY BY THE CANDIDATES APPEARING FOR BOARD EXAMINATIONSAll the candidates will carry their own hand sanitiser in a transparent bottle.The candidates will cover their nose and mouth with a mask/cloth.All candidates will follow physical distance norms.Parents will guide their ward(s) about precautions to be taken by them to avoid the spread of coronavirus.Parents will ensure that their ward is not sick.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/class-12-students-resume-preparations-as-cbse-declares-datesheet-for-pending-exams/story-9q9zy8EBT5x58TFX0vJ1FJ.html
19-05-2020||City||After 55 days, Ludhiana shops open to lukewarm response||With Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh easing the curfew to give way to a lockdown, shops in Ludhiana finally opened after a gap of 55 days. The shopkeepers, visibly relieved after getting back to business, welcomed the customers with smiles. Though most say that the footfall was less, they are hoping that the situation will improve in the coming days. Ghumar mandi market association president Pawan Batra said, “We saw only 10% of the normal footfall but hope that it increases in the next few days. As a precautionary measure, we have deputed staff with thermal scanners at the entry points of shops and are also providing masks to residents who come to the market with a handkerchief covering their mouth. Also social distancing is being strictly observed in all shops and these are functioning with 33 to 40 per cent staff,” said Batra.Gurcharan Singh, a garment store owner in Chaura Bazar, said that around 85% of the shops in the market opened on the first day of the fourth phase of the lockdown.”We received a lukewarm response from residents today but that was expected. However, there was a considerable rush in the markets and we are confident that the business will pick up steam in the coming days,” he said. Some shopkeepers demanded that the administration should allow them to open shops till 8pm as fewer people step out in the day these days due to the soaring temperature. Model Town market association (regd) president Amarjit Singh said, “ If shopkeepers are allowed to run their businesses till 8pm, they would be able to cater to more customers.Today, the shopkeepers were asked to shut their shops by 6pm.” Dilpreet Singh, a resident of Wait Ganj area, said residents had been eager to throng the markets as they were stuck inside their homes for 55 days. “I stepped out to purchase grocery items but took care to avoid the busy streets. Everyone must take care to practise social distancing else the relaxation could turn fatal for us.”Meanwhile, traffic jams were witnessed in old city areas including Saban Bazar, Dal Bazar and Jagraon bridge. Police were making rounds of market areas, urging the people to maintain social distancing. Industry relieved as supply chain restored The industry has heaved a sigh of relief as with the opening of shops, supply chain has been restored. Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU) president Upkar Singh Ahuja said that it will help the cycle industry, but the auto sector is still going through a slump. “Textile and hosiery industry is also facing a crisis as these units have to commence production for winters but they are apprehensive of low demand, he added.United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA) president DS Chawla said opening of shops is a good sign as hardware, fasteners and other material required by the industry would be available now. People should also stick to the Covid-19 guidelines to contain the infection, he added||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-55-days-ludhiana-shops-open-to-poor-response-from-customers/story-sLeQ99Ey3GHRIkGEkwGz3H.html
19-05-2020||Pune||Truck carrying 63 people to Bihar seized by Pune RTO||The officials of Pune regional transport office (RTO) intercepted a truck carrying 63 people across Maharashtra border to Bihar at Shikrapur area of Pune. “The truck was intercepted along the Ahmednagar road near Shikrapur where one of our three squads are keeping a watch. The passengers were disembarked, truck seized and a memo was issued against the truck owner,” said Ashwini Sawant, assistant regional transport officer (RTO) who is heading the initiative in Pune.Each passenger had given Rs 2,500 to Rs 3,000 to the truck driver, according to Sawant.“While some transactions were made online, most were in cash and the money was returned to each passenger before they were let go,” he said.RTO officials have not lodged a police complaint against the truck owner. However, the vehicle’s permit will be cancelled once the case is presented in a court post-lockdown, Sawant said.The squads also keep a track of Satara road and other exists across the city. The squads from Pimpri-Chinchwad RTO also keep a track of possible truck movement carrying people illegally through Pimpri-Chinchwad municipal corporation.“We have filed 10 cases on Sunday (May 17) alone. Most trucks were either heading to Madhya Pradesh or Rajasthan. Every truck carried 40-50 passengers. Some passengers are made to sit behind tin separations,” said Vinod Sagre, ARTO.A truck carrying 50 people heading to Uttar Pradesh was intercepted by ARTO Sagre-led squad in Chakan on Sunday.“We provide further travel arrangements through state transport bus or train to passengers found in seized trucks,” said Ajit Shinde, regional transport officer (RTO), Pune.In the past three days, RTO squads have intercepted at least 17 vehicles carrying passengers across Maharashtra border. While 10 of these were in Pimpri-Chinchwad, seven were from Pune. The trucks were found heading towards Nagpur, Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan and Bihar.The trucks found in Pune were brought to Wagheshwar parking lot while vehicles found in Pimpri-Chinchwad were either taken to state bus depots or police stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/truck-carrying-63-people-to-bihar-seized-by-pune-rto/story-Y46Mw1blEKmG3GrxC8T9CL.html
19-05-2020||Pune||Man arrested for murder of Mahakali gang leader in Pune||Pune The Pimpri-Chinchwad crime branch officials arrested a suspect for the murder of the Mahakali gang leader in the Punawale area of Pimpri-Chinchwad.The arrested man has been identified as Adam, alias Gotya Mohammad Khan, 32, a resident of Somtane phata; while the deceased is Manoj Fulchand Dhakodiya, alias Dingrya, 30, a resident of Ambedkarnagar in Dehuroad. The arrested has a history of nine cases registered against him.Dingrya’s body, with a wound on his head, was found on Sunday evening under the London bridge in Punawale. His wife lodged a complaint with the Wakad police station and a subsequent case under Section 302 (murder) of Indian Penal Code was registered.Police naik Mohammad Gaus Nadaf received information about a possible suspect sleeping under a tree at a local cemetery, according to a statement by Unit 4 of Pimpri-Chinchwad police crime branch. The accused was found at the said spot and was arrested.During interrogation, he revealed that the two were drinking near the spot where Dhakodiya’s body was found. The arrested man also told the police that he got into a fight with the deceased and bludgeoned him with a rod.The deceased was on a two-year externment period and was in Pimpri-Chinchwad in violation of the externment. He has a history of 11 serious cases against him and is the younger brother of Rajesh Dhakodiya, the previous leader of Mahakali gang. Rajesh was killed in a police encounter in 2011, according to crime branch officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-arrested-for-murder-of-mahakali-gang-leader-in-pune/story-02MDX0mSRLT81XdHPhhekL.html
19-05-2020||Lucknow||UP govt accepts Priyanka Gandhi’s proposal to run 1,000 buses for migrants||The Uttar Pradesh government on Monday decided to accept Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s proposal for the party to run 1,000 buses to help ease the movement of migrant labourers in the state. The development comes a day after chief minister Yogi Adityanath targeted the Congress over the ‘migrant labourers’ transit’ issue as the party lined up buses on the UP-Rajasthan border in Bharatpur.Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has thanked the chief minister for giving her party the permission to run these buses. “@myogiadityanath ji saving life of people, protecting the poor and their dignity is our moral responsibility and right in the time of this pandemic. In this difficult time, the Congress is doing its duty of service as per its capability. Running these buses is an extension of our service…. We thank you for giving permission to the Congress to run 1000 buses on its cost to help thousands of brothers and sisters walking down. I assure you that we will continue to stand with the people of UP affected by lockdown, with a feeling of positivity,” said Priyanka Gandhi in her tweets.Earlier in the day, additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi, in a letter addressed to the private secretary of Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, asked for a list of buses, along with names of driver/conductor and other details immediately.“Please refer to Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s letter dated May 16, 2020 addressed to chief minister Yogi Adityanath. I have been asked to say that your proposal relating to migrant labourers has been accepted. Provide a list of buses, along with the name of driver/conductor and other details immediately so that they can be used for the service of migrant labourers,” said Awasthi in the letter dated May 18.The Congress welcomed the state government’s move within minutes, saying it was ready with the list and more details sought by state government would be sent at the earliest.“We welcome the state government’s decision. Our 400-500 buses have been waiting on the border since Sunday. We are compiling details and will submit the list at the earliest,” said Congress Legislature Party leader Aradhna Mishra.“Both the ruling party and the opposition should work together and it is time for cooperation from both the sides. We hope the move will be beneficial in easing the problem. No one will appreciate the move if turns out to be a game of political one-upmanship,” said SK Dwivedi, former head of the department political science, Lucknow University.In her letter sent to the chief minister on Saturday, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had requested the state government for permission to run 1,000 buses.“The Congress, in its responsibility towards hapless migrant labourers, wants to run 500 buses from the Ghazipur border of Ghaziabad and another 500 from the Noida border. All India Congress Committee will bear the cost of running these buses. We want permission to run 1,000 buses following all norms for protection against Covid-19 pandemic to help the migrant labourers,” said Priyanka Gandhi in the letter that a party delegation delivered to chief minister’s office on Saturday. Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee Ajay Kumar Lallu and Congress Legislature Party leader Aradhana Mishra led the delegation.Priyanka Gandhi, in her letter, further said, “Lakhs of migrant labourers are returning from different corners of the country. No arrangement has been made for the safe return of these migrant labourers walking down to their homes. So far, 65 migrant labourers have died in different road accidents.”Priyanka Gandhi had also taken to Twitter on Sunday and posted a video featuring buses queued up in a row.“Our buses are standing at the border. Thousands of migrants and labourers are walking in the heat. Please give permission CM Yogi Adityanath ji, let us help our brothers and sisters,” she had said.In another tweet, she had said, “Respected chief minister, I am requesting you, this is not the time for politics. Our buses are standing on the border. Thousands of labourers and migrants, without eating anything, are walking towards their homes. Let us help them, give permission to our buses.”The same day, the chief minister had said, “The politics by Congress in the coronavirus crisis must be flayed.”Without mentioning Congress governments, he blamed them for the Auraiya tragedy, saying that one of the trucks responsible for the death of the migrants came from Punjab and the other truck was from Rajasthan.At least 25 migrant workers were killed when a truck rammed into a stationary truck from behind on the highway in Aurairya on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-govt-accepts-priyanka-s-proposal-to-run-1-000-buses-for-migrants/story-kbaT8u09ya7iwStt2FZFFI.html
19-05-2020||City||Labourer dies in hit-and-run incident in Ludhiana||LUDHIANA A labourer died in a hit-and-run incident after an unidentified vehicle hit his motorcycle from the rear on Dhandhari Bridge here on Sunday evening.The incident took place when the victim, Raghav Mishra, 28, of Giaspura, was returning home from work. On Monday, Sahnewal police lodged an FIR against an unidentified person on the complaint of Pawan Mishra, the victim’s father. Pawan said his son, who worked in a factory in Focal Point, had suffered head injuries when he hit the divider after falling off the bike.We rushed him to a hospital, where he died during the treatment, Pawan added.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Kulwinder Singh, who is investigating the case, said that a case under Sections 279 (rash driving), 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered against the unidentified accused. Police are scanning closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras to identify the accused, ASI Kulwinder said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/labourer-dies-in-hit-and-run-case-in-ludhiana/story-CK25wsefco7AzTBaEEHNdL.html
