20-05-2020||Mumbai||Home quarantine cases rise 73% in past 10 days||With the growing number of cases of Covid-19 in the state, the number of people who are kept in quarantine has also increased rapidly. Since May 10, home quarantine has increased by 73% while institutional quarantine has surged by 85%, as per data from the state health department.On May 10, 2,33,327 people were home quarantined in Maharashtra. This number increased to 4,04,692 on May 19. In the same period, 14,465 people were kept in isolation at institutional quarantine centres and this number rose to 26,752 on Tuesday.According to medical experts, the rise in number of those quarantined at home is because of the change in discharge policy. Under the new rules, asymptomatic patients should be sent home from the second-tier Covid care centres (CCC2), which are government-run centres where doctors and nurses are on duty round the clock. City-based epidemiologist Dr Om Srivastava said, “Now, asymptomatic patients are advised to stay at home if it is feasible. Thus, the number of home quarantines has increased. Our primary focus is on patients with symptoms as they are more contagious.”Over 4.5 lakh people have been kept in institutional quarantine in Maharashtra.The number under contact tracing has also increased. All high-risk contacts are being shifted to the first tier Covid care centres (CCC1), which are located in hotels, newly-constructed buildings and similar structures, but don’t have round-the-clock medical care.“At places, especially in slums where social distancing is not feasible, we isolate the high-risk contacts in lodges, hotels and other structures so that they don’t contract the infection. So, with a rise in cases, the number of institutional quarantine will also increase,” said Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/home-quarantine-cases-rise-73-in-past-10-days/story-s6w3B82L0xmET308JJqpUI.html
20-05-2020||Mumbai||City breathes cleanest air of the year, AQI drops to 28||The city recorded its cleanest air day during the lockdown period and this year so far on Wednesday with the air quality index (AQI) for PM2.5 - a breathable particulate matter of 2.5 micron or lesser - dropping to 28, falling under the ‘good’ category.According to the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the AQI on Tuesday was 56 (satisfactory) and had shot up to 90 (satisfactory) on Sunday. Wednesday’s AQI however, increased to 32 (good) by the evening. Eight of 10 locations recorded ‘good’ air quality with only Worli and Mazagaon recording ‘satisfactory’ levels. Even the AQI published by the Central Pollution Control Board on Wednesday was 48, falling under the ‘good’ category.The improvement in air quality was attributed to a marginal increase in wind speed and changing weather conditions influenced by the severe tropical cyclone Amphan over the east coast, said SAFAR researchers.“The effect of the cyclone has an impact over the west coast and allows the increase in wind speed or sea breeze (westerly winds) temporarily,” said Gufran Beig, director, SAFAR adding that the AQI was likely to rise to 43 (good). “Combined with this high moisture incursions due to warm weather enhances the pollutant carrying capacity, and marginally high wind speed disperses this layer faster.”The wind speed started increasing from Tuesday morning 4 knots (7.4 km/h) to 5 knots (9.2 km/h) by the evening and continued to be 4 knots through Wednesday at the Santacruz weather station while it ranged between 2 and 3 knots at Colaba, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).“Cyclones do impact wind pattern and weather conditions in the influential radius of a 1,000 km or more and leads to northwesterly winds for peninsular India at a marginally higher speed. However, one has to check the data for Mumbai to see if this is the case,” said B Mukhopadhyay, former additional director-general of the meteorology of IMD, Pune.Independent meteorologists said cyclone Amphan was too far from Mumbai for causing any prominent enhancement of surface wind speed for Mumbai. “However, surface winds have been persistently from the west due to the cyclone, which along with the lowdown effect has drastically improved the city’s air quality. The air quality worsens when the surface wind is from other direction such as the east,” said Akshay Deoaras, independent meteorologist and PhD researcher at the University of Reading, UK.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/city-breathes-cleanest-air-of-the-year-aqi-drops-to-28/story-06sA8pPp8E5Xh9RfjdypuK.html
20-05-2020||Mumbai||83-yr-old Covid patient gets bed after waiting for over a day||Eighty-three-year-old Sudhakar Shiravdekar, a resident of Shivaji Park, had to wait for a day-and-a-half after he tested positive for Covid-19 to get a bed at a hospital.His son, Harshal, had reached out to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) as well as political leaders seeking medical help. “He tested positive on Tuesday. He does not have respiratory issues, but he is diabetic. We did not mind if it was a private or a BMC-affiliated hospital. We needed quick help as my father is bedridden,” said Harshal. Shiravdekar and his wife both had dry cough, however, only Sudhakar tested positive.Harshal added that on Tuesday morning, following the test report, the civic body sanitised their house as well as the society premises. As a result, Harshal and his family, who live a few blocks away, were asked to not stay with the couple in a bid to not expose them to the infection. However, due to the unavailability of a bed, Shiravdekar’s wife stayed with him in the same flat as he required special care. “My parents, both of whom are elderly, have been staying alone. We are helpless,” said Harshal. He added that after continuously seeking an update on the bed, he received a call on Wednesday morning that an ambulance would be sent to pick up Shiravdekar. However, the ambulance arrived only around 3pm.“We do not have complaints about the civic body. But, in a situation such as this, a patient’s family needs to be guided. Hospital bed and ambulances need to be made available,” Harshal said.Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner, said after a bed was allotted to the patient, a request has been made for a special ICU bed for him because of his co-morbidity. “I received a call on Tuesday evening. It isn’t right to say that he had to wait for two days because we arranged the bed on Wednesday morning. A centralised procedure is being followed, hence it takes time for us to arrange a bed and an ambulance for patients,” said Dighavkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/83-yr-old-covid-patient-gets-bed-after-waiting-for-over-a-day/story-Sh0KuVSxonoRW9Qxd73aNN.html
20-05-2020||Chandigarh||State consumer commission: Car manufacturer, dealer penalised for selling old model as new to Chandigarh man||For deficiency in service and adopting unfair trade practice by selling an old car model as newer one, the state consumer disputes redressal commission directed Ford India Pvt Ltd and its agent to pay ₹50,000 in compensation to a city resident. The commission also directed the company to either replace the defective car or refund ₹22.10 lakh to the customer.Vivek Kundu, a Sector 38 resident, stated in his complaint, that he had approached Sidhant Motors (Tara Ford) in Hisar, Haryana, which is the authorised dealership of Ford India (opposite party) to buy its Endeavour Trend 2.2 L, 4x4 MT. He bought the SUV in January 2017 for ₹22. 10 lakh.However, within a month, the dashboard began to rattle with excessive noise and vibrations. In February, it broke down several times, parts had to be replaced, wipers began making shuddering sounds and tyres developed cracks.He said the vehicle had been manufactured in April 2016, instead of December 2016, as represented by the agent. Accusing them of sheer unfair trade practices by selling off an old model as a brand new vehicle, he demanded that his vehicle be replaced with a new one.In its reply, Ford India–Gurgaon (opposite party no.2) which is the corporate office of Ford India and Ford India–Tamil Nadu (opposite party no.1), said they were neither necessary nor proper parties and as such, the complaint against them is liable to be dismissed.“The complaint is liable to be dismissed as the complainant has miserably failed to establish any manufacturing defect in the vehicle by leading any expert evidence,” added Ford.To ascertain the true picture, the commission directed the director of Punjab Engineering College, Chandigarh, to constitute a team of two experts to look into the matter and submit a report to this commission. As per report, there were defects.The commission directed Ford India–Gurgaon and Ford India–Tamil Nadu and their agent in Hisar to jointly and severally, replace the vehicle with a brand new vehicle of same specifications/ features within period of 45 days from the date of receipt of certified copies of this order. In case, the same is not available for delivery, then, the cost of the vehicle i.e. ₹22,10,489 is be refunded to the complainant.The commission also directed them to pay ₹50,000 in compensation for ‘deficient service’ and for adopting unfair trade practice by selling an old model, along with ₹25,000 as litigation cost||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/state-consumer-commission-car-company-to-replace-car-penalised-for-selling-old-model-as-new/story-BSu0nKFAToWQJIvCLm3PqO.html
20-05-2020||Chandigarh||Calling Chandigarh admn order arbitrary, private schools demand consolidated fee||A day after the education department allowed Chandigarh schools to collect monthly tuition fee, most schools are violating orders by asking for additional fees such as annual fee, hobby fee and caution fee, under the umbrella of ‘consolidated fee’ instead of tuition fee.Schools, meanwhile, have already moved Punjab and Haryana high court challenging the UT’s order for collecting only tuition fees. Schools have petitioned that UT has no jurisdiction to pass such orders, and under law, there is a provision of a fee regulatory authority. A parent whose children are studying in a prominent Sector-26 school, said, “First they asked for a quarterly fee. Today they altered their order showing ₹7,568 as monthly fee under the term ‘consolidated fee’ which only excludes hobby fee. And this is after specific permission to charge only tuition fee.”“Last year, the school charged ₹11,790 as quarterly tuition fee and ₹15,510 as consolidated fee. This means they are now charging even more,” the parent said.Another parent whose kids study in a Sector-40 school said, “The school wants us to pay a consolidated amount for two months before May 31. When I called them for clarity, they said it’s a sum of all fee heads including tuition, annual, admission, caution fees etc.”Advocate for schools Ashish Chopra said, “Schools have different heads under which they charge a fee. UT’s order is arbitrary.” Chairperson of Independent School Association, HS Mamik, said most Chandigarh schools charge consolidated fees, and only a handful of schools have separate heads for charging fees. This why they are charging consolidated fees.”In an official press release, the UT administration, while informing the public about Tuesday’s order, said the matter was sub-judice, with next hearing on May 22.Chandigarh school education director Rubinderjit Singh Brar said he could not comment as the matter is was in court.Nitin Goyal, president of Chandigarh Parents Association, said, “We had told the administration that schools have merged all funds as consolidated ‘tuition’ fees, so the education department’s order was not practical. However, it was still passed to benefit the school lobby.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ut-order-arbitrary-chandigarh-schools-demand-consolidated-fee/story-YL7OuZ8EJIU5MDFv8tL7kM.html
20-05-2020||City||Panvel crosses 300 mark, 16 new cases reported||Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) crossed the 300 mark on Wednesday, the day when municipal commissioner Sudhakar Deshmukh took charge. With 16 new cases, Panvel’s total count is 305. Those who have tested positive include five family members of an APMC market transporter, who had tested positive earlier.Sudhakar Deshmukh, who was the Ulhasnagar municipal commissioner, said, “I am reviewing the situation. We will ensure that the city is free of Covid 19 at the earliest.”Covid cases on the decline in Navi MumbaiAfter recording huge jumps, Covid-19 cases have been on the decline in Navi Mumbai in the past few days. A total of 43 new cases were reported by Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) on Wednesday, taking the total to 1,364. Six deaths were also reported.After reporting 105 cases on May 11, the number of cases in the city has been on the decline and has come down to less than 50.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panvel-crosses-300-mark-16-new-cases-reported/story-80ZB2YnJyjX8rEdO8mSs8M.html
20-05-2020||City||With 200 staff members in quarantine, Ludhiana DMCH’s battle gets tougher||Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH)’s battle with the virus continues to get tougher as over 200 of its staff members, including doctors, have been asked to go into home isolation after coming in contact with Covid-19 positive patients. Of these patients, several had been brought to the emergency ward of the hospital and found Covid-19 positive later.The hospital has now set up a five-member committee, chaired by Dr Rajoo Singh Chhina, dean (academics) and chairperson of the Hospital Infection Control Committee, to screen its staffers and bring back those who didn’t directly come in contact with the patients.The development comes four days after a two-year-old girl from Mandeep Nagar in Choti Haibowal, who was rushed to the hospital with abdominal pain, was found to be infected. According to health authorities, she is the youngest Covid patient in Ludhiana. Doctors performed an emergency intestinal surgery on her, following which her samples were sent for Covid testing.After the child tested positive, DMCH authorities asked 35 employees, including, doctors and paramedical staff, to go into home quarantine for 14 days.Earlier on May 13, as many as 160 employees, including doctors and paramedical staff of DMCH were sent into home isolation after two ward boys tested positive. On Wednesday, the reports of 119 staffers, who were tested after the ward boys were found infected, came in negative.The hospital’s Covid in-charge Dr Ashwani Chaudhary said the employees were quarantined as a preventive measure.Sources said that besides a patient from Jammu, the staff had come in contact with three Ludhiana patients from Khanna, Rajpura and Faridkot, who were scheduled to undergo surgeries at the hospital.Dr Chhina said, “We have to follow the universal infection control protocol while treating any patient visiting the hospital. Further, we are conducting a special screening as per the guidelines issued by World Health Organisation (WHO) and Ministry of Health.”Dr Chaudhary said that the primary and secondary contacts have been segregated. “While the secondary contacts, such as those who crossed the area where the Covid-19 patient was kept, will be called back on duty after a week, the condition of primary contacts will be monitored and they will be kept under isolation for 14- days.”The hospital has been battling to control infection ever since the outbreak in March. The hospital even had to close down its OPD services for some time. DMCH principal Sandeep Puri and other senior doctors remained in quarantine in March after the patient they were treating turned out to be the first Covid-19 case of the city.Four Covid-19 patients, a 31-year-old male from Ludhiana, a 69-year-old woman from Gurdaspur, 60-year-old man for Faridkot and 52-year-old man from Patiala were discharged from the hospital on Wednesday after recovery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-200-staff-members-in-quarantine-ludhiana-dmch-s-battle-gets-tougher/story-Ip2cZ6Hav7puYlz9WB2B6O.html
20-05-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand Covid-19 tally at 280 with 32 new cases||Jharkhand on Wednesday reported the highest ever spike in Covid-19 positive cases after 32 people, mostly migrant workers from across the state’s six districts, were found infected with SARS-CoV-2 virus.With discovery of these cases, the total count of confirmed Covid-19 cases rose to 280.While maximum 18 cases were reported from Garhwa district, five each cases were found in East Singhbhum’s Jamshedpur and Koderma districts. Besides, Giridih district recorded two new cases and Hazaribag and Gumla districts detected one case each.In Garhwa, 14 cases were reported from Korwadih, three cases from Vishnupura and one case from Majhiaon blocks.“14 migrant workers, who had arrived here from Mumbai and were put in government quarantine centre at Korwadih, were tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. Earlier, one person from this group had been found infected with this respiratory disease. The patients are being shifted to district’s Covid-19 hospital,” said Garhwa civil surgeon Dr NK Rajak.With increase of 18 cases on Thursday, Garhwa district has now 47 positive cases.In East Singhbhum’s Jamshedpur, three of a family in Govindur locality have tested coronavirus positive along with one patient each from Mango and Golmuri on Wednesday.“Since the three patients are from a single family we are secluding the area as a micro-containment zone. But the patients testing positive from Mango and Golmuri didn’t come in contact with any other person hence there will be no containment zones in those two localities,” said Ravishankar Shukla, East Singhbhum deputy commissioner (DC).Koderma district also reported five new positive cases. “All persons tested positive are migrant workers,” said Koderma civil surgeon Dr Parvati Kumari Nag.Giridih civil surgeon Dr B Das too confirmed detection of two new cases from the district. He said, “The two patients are migrant workers who had came here from Surat and were kept in government quarantine centre at Jammua block.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-covid-19-tally-at-280-with-32-new-cases/story-7VZQZP481bCjjUPn6r4KQO.html
20-05-2020||Chandigarh||‘Probe role of senior Congmen in Khanna illegal distillery case’||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Wednesday asked chief minister Amarinder Singh to take action against the kingpins in the Khanna illegal distillery case by investigating the alleged role of Congress’ Ludhiana MP Ravneet Bittu, Khanna MLA Gurkirat Kotli and his Payal counterpart Lakhbir Singh Lakha instead of doing a cover-up by arresting the small fish.In a press release, SAD leader Maheshinder Singh Grewal said though the government arrested one of the frontmen running the illegal distillery-cum-bottling plant, the action was too late. “We demand that the government enquire into the role of Congress leaders who patronised the accused.” Grewal said it was shameful that the Khanna police took a fortnight to take action against Kulwinder Singh Kala despite a huge public outcry only because he enjoyed the patronage of the Khanna MLA and senior Congress leaders. “This is the second time the Congress government has taken action against small fish in the Rs 5,600 crore excise scam case. Earlier, in the Ghanaur illegal distillery case the government took action against two local Congress leaders, including a sarpanch, instead of arresting party legislators Madan Lal Jalalpur and Hardyal Kamboj who were the kingpins in the case.” The Akali leader said strict action was needed in the case to break the politico- liquor mafia nexus as well end the Congress leaders’ bootlegging business that was endangering the lives of thousands of people. He said an independent inquiry should be ordered into the case by a central agency or a sitting judge of the high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/probe-role-of-senior-congmen-in-khanna-illegal-distillery-case/story-uqXPMMoHmQAxOXolJtUgoI.html
20-05-2020||City||KDMC records 3 Covid deaths||Kalyan-Dombivli reported three deaths due to Covid-19 on Wednesday, taking the death toll to 15.A total of 26 new cases were reported, taking the total tally to 594.An 87-year-old man from Kalyan (West) is the oldest to die of the infection in Kalyan-Dombivli. The health department said he got infected from his son, who is an autorickshaw driver. “The elderly man is the oldest one to die due to the infection. He was bed-ridden. He is a comorbid patient. He was bought to the Holy Cross Hospital around four days ago. He tested positive,” said Pratibha Panpatil, epidemic officer, Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC).A 39-year-old woman from Kalyan (West), who went to Rukminibai Hospital complaining of blood pressure on May 17, was sent to Kalwa hospital and she died on Monday. “The woman was suffering from hypertension. Her Covid test report came on Wednesday,” said Patil.A 70-year-old man from Dombivli, suffering from hypertension and breathlessness, went to a private hospital and was asked to go to Shastrinagar civic hospital. But, he went home. “He underwent a Covid test on Monday and he died on Tuesday. His report came on Wednesday and showed him to be Covid positive. His wife and son have also tested positive,” said Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kdmc-records-3-covid-deaths/story-6JklQ0uK3WnSY6l9G9ANZP.html
20-05-2020||Chandigarh||RETURN OF PUNJABIs: Govt sets up facilitation centre at Delhi Airport||The Punjab government has set up a facilitation centre at the Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA), New Delhi, to help Punjabis and non-resident Indians (NRIs) coming back on special flights from foreign countries.In a statement, chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh said transport facility has been arranged at the centre to ensure the comfortable return of stranded Punjabis and NRIs to their home districts, where they will be required to stay in quarantine for 14 days and will also be tested for Covid-19.Those found negative would be sent home for another two weeks of self-quarantine while those testing positive will be shifted to isolation centres for health care/treatment.With 20,000 stranded Punjabis and NRIs expected to return home under the Vande Bharat Mission, the facilitation centre would ensure seamless coordination, without chaos or confusion, the CM said.Coordinators have also been appointed in various countries to ensure the safe return of those who had registered for return to their native places in Punjab, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/return-of-punjabis-govt-sets-up-facilitation-centre-at-delhi-airport/story-gKPt9td0aBR79fsocNrPUM.html
20-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab brings pvt hospitals into ambit of Covid-19 battle||The Punjab government on Wednesday notified an ordinance to bring private clinical establishments into the ambit of the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. The notification, under the Punjab Clinical Establishments (Registration & Regulation) Ordinance, 2020, brings all clinical establishments having capacity of more than 50 beds under the provisions of the ordinance, a spokesperson for the chief minister’s office said. The ordinance is in line with the decision taken by the council of ministers on April 10. The spokesperson said that the ordinance would provide a mechanism for registration and regulation of clinical establishments, to ensure compliance of minimum standards of facilities and services, as well as transparency in the functioning of these establishments for fair and proper delivery of health services to the common man. To implement the provisions of the ordinance, a Punjab state council for clinical establishments will be set up under the chairmanship of administrative secretary, health and family welfare with director, health and family welfare, as member secretary.The council members will include director, health service (family welfare); director, health service (social insurance), along with directors of various recognised systems of medicine of the state government, including the director, ayurveda, head of homeopathic department; president of Punjab Medical Council; president of Punjab Dental Council; registrar of Punjab Nurses Registration Council; and registrar of Punjab State Pharmacy Council.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-brings-pvt-hospitals-into-ambit-of-covid-19-battle/story-4aF79mIe6Mss6Gj7zvuiKP.html
20-05-2020||City||Bus services resume within Punjab, not many takers||Bus services for the public resumed in Punjab on Wednesday almost two months after their suspension in the wake of the covid-19 outbreak. Buses of the state-owned Punjab Roadways and Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) plied on select routes in non-containment zones within the state, officials said. The state had announced resumption of point-to-point bus services between major cities and district headquarters from May 20 with 50% occupancy. Inter-state bus services will not resume till May 31.Before the start of operations, all buses were sanitised. Passengers had to undergo temperature screening at bus stands before being allowed to board buses, officials said.At a few places, including Jalandhar and Amritsar, passengers came to bus stands as early as 5am and complained of not getting buses despite waiting for long. Many complained that they were made to wait till the bus had 50% occupancy.In Bathinda, there was little demand and buses had to wait for hours to get even 25 passengers (50% of capacity). Jaskaran Singh, a PRTC employee at Bathinda depot, said, “The average waiting time for buses was 90 minutes. In total, 21 buses ran on nine routes.” Three routes resume in AmritsarFrom Amritsar, service was resumed on three routes -- to Dera Baba Nanak, to Pathankot and to Jalandhar. In Patiala, the PRTC plied its buses on 10 routes which included Samana, Patran, Nabha, Malerkotla and Jalandhar. At Hoshiarpur bus stand, Punjab Roadways duty inspector Madan Lal said the bus services on five routes — Hoshiarpur to Mohali, Jalandhar, Ludhiana; Tanda-Batala; and Mukerian-Pathankot-Gurdaspur — were resumed. Thirty buses moved out of Pathankot ISBT to Amritsar, Hoshiarpur and Jalandhar. “On the Amritsar route, buses stopped only at Dinanagar, Gurdaspur and Batala. On the Hoshiarpur and Jalandhar journey, the only stoppages were in Mukerian and Dasuya, respectively,” said Jeevan Kumar, nodal officer, Punjab Roadways, Pathankot, adding that all passengers were screened. Queue in JalandharThe bus stand in Jalandhar saw a rush of passengers and people lining up in queues with tickets being issued only from the counter to ensure social distancing was maintained. “From here, 55 main routes have been restarted and 155 buses will run,” said Parneet Minhas, deputy director, in-charge of bus operations. Not enough passengers in BarnalaSeven routes have been re-started from the town, with none of the buses able to get passengers to fill even 50% of the seats on Wednesday. A driver, Malkit Singh said, “So far, only two passengers have boarded this bus that will go directly to Sangrur bus stand from here. Passengers are not allowed to board or alight en route.” Buses ran from here to Sangrur, Patiala, Chandigarh, Mansa, Moga, Bathinda and Ludhiana.—With PTI inputs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bus-services-resume-within-punjab-not-many-takers/story-OsmmUzyf8nZR3vkaslaHTO.html
20-05-2020||Chandigarh||Now, hotel, bar owners in Punjab seek relaxations from excise dept||After liquor traders, owners of hotels, restaurants and bars in Punjab are also seeking relaxations from the excise department for loss in business they have suffered due to lockdown imposed since March 23 to check the spread of COVID-19.They are demanding exemption in paying the licence fee and other charges for three months from April to June.“We have to deposit an average sum of Rs 4.6 lakh to renew the annual licence to sell liquor and beer (Rs 4 lakh for serving liquor and Rs 60,000 for beer). However, there’s no sale as restaurants, bars and clubs have been shut for the past two months and there’s no hope for our business to revive soon,” said Amanvir Singh, president, Punjab Hotels and Restaurants Association. The charges for luxury hotels are even higher, he added.Singh said, “We had approached the officials of the excise department to seek exemption of licence fee and other charges for three months from April to June, but they are forcing us to deposit the entire charges applicable.”He said there are at least 10,000 hotels, restaurants, clubs and bars in the state that sell liquor and beer. There are 4,000 marriage palaces in the state, which are also members of the association.Excise and taxation commissioner VP Singh said his department is aware of the issue and would soon work out a solution. He, however, said the number of clubs, hotels, bars and restaurants in the state is not as huge as claimed by Singh.Cabinet minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, who is part of the group of ministers (GoM) constituted to hear the grievances of liquor contractors, said that the GoM would also hold meetings with the hotel and bar owners. Besides Sarkaria, finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal and education minister Vijayinder Singla are in the GOM.GoM TO SUBMIT REPORT ON CONTRACTORS’ DEMANDS THIS WEEK Meanwhile, the GoM is meeting liquor contractors of all seven excise divisions of the state to hear their grievances in the wake of the lockdown.Sarkaria said they would conclude the talks on Thursday and the GoM would submit its report to the CM, who heads excise and taxation department, by the end of this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/now-hotel-bar-owners-in-punjab-seek-relaxations-from-excise-dept/story-ibnrGmbfGw5cCVMlyABqdP.html
20-05-2020||Chandigarh||CS-MINISTERS’ SPAT: Punjab CM takes luncheon diplomacy route; Randhawa, MLAs reiterate demands||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Wednesday took the luncheon diplomacy route to try and break the deadlock over the spat between chief secretary Karan Avtar Singh and his ministers.The CM met Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar, cooperation minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and MLAs Amrinder Singh Raja Warring, Pargat Singh and Sangat Singh Gilzian at his farmhouse in Siswan village near here. These leaders, who were invited for an ‘informal lunch’, had last week vociferously demanded the removal of Karan Avtar Singh from the chief secretary’s post and probe into the excise revenue losses.‘LUNCH HOSTED TO BREAK THE ICE’Jakhar said the CM called the meeting to break the ice and it was held in a cordial atmosphere. “The issue related to CS, which is agitating the minds of ministers and MLAs, was also discussed. The CM heard them out and shared his own views. The idea was to strengthen the party and see that the state comes out of this crisis in a better shape,” he said.Randhawa, Warring and Gilzian, who have been upset over delay in action against the 1984-batch IAS officer, raised the issues of his removal and excise revenue losses without mincing any words. “The chief minister was told that the chief secretary’s demeanour and attitude towards the ministers during the pre-cabinet meeting was improper. If he (Karan Avtar) continues to be there with this kind of attitude, how will things work?” one of them said after the meeting, adding, “The CM was told that wrong perception is getting created about the government”.Pargat, who had also hit out against the government on Sunday for failing to set up an excise corporation, stressed the need to check liquor smuggling and dip in excise revenue at the meeting. “I suggested that the state should try it (excise corporation) to raise its revenue and stop smuggling as this model is working well in at least two states,” he said. Both Randhawa and Pargat later said that the CM told them he would look into all these issues.CM GAVE A PATIENT HEARINGAt the meeting, Amarinder, who gave the minister and MLAs a patient hearing, also told them about all the steps taken by the state government to stop the illegal smuggling, leakages and revenue loss, besides instructions issued to the director general of police (DGP) to hold senior superintendents of police (SSPs) and station house officers (SHOs) accountable for any laxity, according to sources. They said the CM also asked Randhawa about the CS’ apology to the ministers at the pre-cabinet meeting but was told that the officer went to finance minister Manpreet Badal and expressed regret to him when the minister was sitting in his car and ready to leave.Randhawa, Jakhar and several other ministers and MLAs have been seeking action against Karan Avtar following his run-in with finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal and technical education minister Charanjit Singh Channi over the state excise policy more than 10 days ago. While Pargat, Warring and Gilzian went to the CM’s farmhouse with Randhawa, Jakhar came separately.Meanwhile, an official spokesperson, while confirming that the party leaders raised the issue of the chief secretary and the alleged excise revenue losses, said they discussed the dynamically evolving Covid situation and the prolonged lockdown in the state. “In view of the social distancing norms and stringent Covid-related safety protocols in place, Amarinder had invited only a handful of party leaders and members”.The spokesperson, in a written statement, further said they shared with the CM their suggestions on the Covid pandemic and the problems faced by the state due to the resultant lockdown, besides congratulating him on the various steps taken to keep the spread of the pandemic under check.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cs-ministers-spat-punjab-cm-takes-luncheon-diplomacy-route-randhawa-mlas-reiterate-demands/story-ehVMYaIVMwTNrswS7AwfaK.html
20-05-2020||City||De-addiction clinics in Tarn Taran, Amritsar face medicine shortage||The government-run outpatient opioid assisted treatment (OOAT) centres in Tarn Taran and Amritsar districts are facing shortage of vital medicines required for treating drug abuse victims, mainly due to the spike in number of patients during the lockdown period. The authorities at these centres say due to the shortage in the stock they are now giving daily dose instead of providing take-home medicines to the patients for two weeks. Earlier in March, the Punjab government had instructed all 198 OOAT centres, 35 government de-addiction centres and 108 licensed private de-addiction centres to provide take-home doses of buprenorphine and naloxone for two weeks after an assessment by the psychiatrists. The step was taken to maintain social distancing among the patients at the centres due to the coronavirus pandemic.More than 40,000 patients are registered in government and private de-addiction centres in Tarn Taran and Amritsar districts. Most of the patients rely on 14 OOAT centers in Tarn Taran and nine in Amritsar. “For the past one week, I have been forced to travel for over 30km daily to take my daily dose. Sometimes, I even return without the dose,” said 28-year-old patient from Algonkothi village of Bhikhiwind subdivision in Amritsar. The authorities cite increased load of patients due to the lockdown as the main reason behind the shortage of medicines.“Since the lockdown, 4,000 new patients have registered themselves and a large number of drop-out patients have resumed treatment in Tarn Taran. Due to this, the consumption of medicines has increased,” said Dr Jaspreet Singh, medical officer (MO) of Bhagupur OOAT centre. On Tuesday, around 50 patients held a protest in Tarn Taran civil hospital alleging they were not given the medicines. Tarn Taran civil surgeon Dr Anoop Kumar said, “The patients who protested were given the medicine later. Due to the increased load of patients, the shortage of medicines is witnessed in the entire state. We have already written to the senior authorities about the demand of the medicine.” Dr Rajive Arora, MO at the government OOAT centre in Amritsar medical college, said, “Earlier we had been giving 15-day take-home medicine to the patients. Now, due to the shortage in supply, we are giving daily dose to them. We have been assured that the supply will soon be regularised.”7,134 new patients registered in Sangrur during lockdownMeanwhile, as many as 7,134 new patients got themselves registered at OOAT clinics for de-addiction treatment during the lockdown period in Sangrur district.Deputy Commissioner (DC) Ghanshyam Thori said, “Due to non-availability of drugs, the addicts are voluntarily getting themselves registered at the de-addiction centres.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/de-addiction-clinics-in-tarn-taran-amritsar-face-medicine-shortage/story-yb9EarejOpzPz4lJB4OqsO.html
20-05-2020||City||Thane records highest 24-hour spike with 110 new cases||In the highest 24-hour spike, Thane recorded 110 new Covid positive cases and three deaths on Wednesday. The number of cases in the city is 1,463 while the death toll is 57.Sandeep Malvi, deputy commissioner of Thane Municipal Corporation, said, “A total of 110 new cases were reported on Wednesday, the highest 24-hour jump so far. However, the rate of recovery has also increased to 39% with 112 people discharged on Wednesday. The highest number of 27 cases was seen in Lokmanyanagar Sawarkarnagar ward followed by 18 in Uthalsar and 17 in Wagale Estate.”The Kalwa and Majiwada Manpada ward recorded 10 new cases each.The Thane district has increased the capacity of the Thane Civil Hospital by increasing the number of beds. The district authority has confirmed that 150 beds have been added, taking the total number of beds to 250. The 150 beds will be portable beds to accommodate the increasing number of patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-records-highest-24-hour-spike-with-110-new-cases/story-M0TiNDI3tP9fBdn4ep7RHI.html
20-05-2020||Delhi||AIIMS provided tele-consultation to 34,000 patients during lockdown||Doctors from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) have provided over 34,000 tele-consultations to registered patients during the lockdown, according to data provided by the hospital. Around 10,000 patients – already registered and new – get consultation in the out-patient clinics of the hospital every day, around 40% of whom travel from outside the city to seek treatment.The hospital had shut its clinics on March 24 in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.“The OPD clinics at the hospital are yet to open. Proper protocols have to be in place to ensure safety of all the patients as well as healthcare workers. However, during the lockdown too we have been providing consultation to our registered patients. They had to seek their follow-up appointments on a helpline number, and the doctors from the relevant department call them at their allotted time,” said Dr Aarti Vij, chairperson of the media and protocol division of the hospital.AIIMS is in the process of setting up a screening area for people with influenza-like illnesses to be segregated before they enter the OPD complex so that those with Covid-19 do not infect others. The hospital had earlier planned to start the clinics by this week.To seek follow-up appointment, people can call the number +91 9115444155.The helpline number called Covid-19 National Teleconsultation Centre (CoNTeC) also answered 4,500 queries by people and doctors about the viral disease, according to the data.Doctors from AIIMS have also responded to over 44,000 queries through an email helpline (technicalquery.covid19@gov.in), according to the data. “We get about 1,000 emails a day on this id. The queries range from generally people asking how to go about things to protocols that have to be followed,” said Dr Vij.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/aiims-provided-tele-consultation-to-34-000-patients-during-lockdown/story-smGtkSjmiiqzZcbGrar3tK.html
20-05-2020||Delhi||Another prisoner and superintendent test positive, number of infections in Tihar up to 17||An assistant superintendent of Rohini Jail has tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), officials said Wednesday. Senior officials said that because the superintendent lived in staff quarters within the Tihar Jail complex, at least 13 of his neighbours and close contacts from work have also been asked to quarantine themselves.With this, the total number of positive cases from Delhi prisons has now increased to 17. While 15 of them are prisoners, two are staff members, including a jail warden.The director-general (Delhi prisons) Sandeep Goel said the 50-year-old official posted to Rohini Jail started feeling unwell a few days ago and was advised to take rest at home.“He lives in the prison’s staff quarters in Tihar complex. He got himself tested at the Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital and his result arrived on Tuesday. Presently he is quarantined at home,” Goel said.Goel said they had identified 13 of the official’s close contacts, including his neighbours and colleagues, who have been asked to quarantine themselves at home for the next 14 days.So far, all the 16 prisoners who tested positive had been lodged in Rohini Jail for about three months. Following the positive reports in Rohini, a high alert was sounded in Tihar Jail, where around 15,000 prisoners are currently lodged in different sub-jails. Rohini Jail has 1,370 prisoners within its walls. With families of prisoners barred from visiting inmates and court hearings currently being held inside the prison over video conference, jail officers suspect the virus may have been transferred through an asymptomatic jail officer. To contain the disease, the bi-weekly visits of all family members have been cancelled. Prisoners have been allowed to use the jail’s phone to speak to their family members everyday.Tihar Jail’s officials are on high alert after reports of the disease spreading rapidly in Mumbai’s Arthur Road jail. In Mumbai’s Arthur Road Jail where 4,000 prisoners are lodged, the infection had affected 184 prisoners and prison staff within a week of one prisoner contracting the virus. It also prompted Maharashtra to look at releasing half the prisoners in its jails to contain the spread of the disease. Tihar Jail officers have also decongested the prison by releasing around 3,000 prisoners on interim bail and parole. At 18,000, Tihar Jail houses the most number of inmates across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/another-prisoner-and-superintendent-test-positive-number-of-infections-in-tihar-up-to-17/story-SMtGAu9mJKusLNuRPncJzJ.html
20-05-2020||Patna||Bihar’s Covid tally up at 1,607||Nearly 4.9% people tested had reported positive for coronavirus during the last 24 hours, with Bihar reporting 112 cases during this period, taking the overall tally in the state to 1607, said health officials during a media briefing here on Wednesday.The Covid-19 case percentage during the last 24 hours was higher than the average 3% people to have reported positive for the virus as against 53,361 samples tested so far, said Bihar’s health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh on Wednesday.The infection rate used to hover around 2.5% against samples tested until recently.Singh attributed the spike in infections to testing of symptomatic people, tapping contacts of those who had tested positive for Covid-19 and going for random testing of migrant workers.He said 788 migrant workers, who reached Bihar after May 3, have so far tested positive for the virus. Of them, 249 people, which accounted for 31.59% of the migrants testing positive, had returned from Delhi; followed by 187 (23.73%) from Maharashtra and 158 (20.05%) from Gujarat.Migrants now accounted for over 52% of Bihar’s total Covid-19 cases, given the fact that 58 workers, who returned to the state before lockdown 3.0 (from May 4-17), had also tested positive for the virus.Altogether, 571 patients had recovered so far, after 37 people were cured and discharged from different health facilities during the past 24 hours, said Singh. Nine people, who contracted the virus, have died in the state so far.The case recovery rate was 36% in the state. This had slid from around 55%, as recorded prior to the home-coming of the migrant workers in large number by Shramik Special trains, operating from May 2.Bihar expects to receive around 12 lakh migrant workers more by the end of this month. It has already received around 6.10 lakh migrant workers till Tuesday, as per data shared by Anupam Kumar, secretary, Bihar’s information and public relations department.Of the cases reported today, Khagaria accounted for 15, followed by Bhagalpur (12), Banka (11), Madhubani, Nalanda and Darbhanga (6 each), Supaul (2) and one each in Gopalganj and Katihar, as per information shared earlier in the day through a tweet by Sanjay Kumar, Bihar’s outgoing principal secretary, health. By afternoon, Kumar had been transferred to the tourism department in the same capacity.Kumar had maintained absolute transparency in dissemination of information, putting state data on coronavirus in public domain through his Twitter handle (@sanjayjavin).He would upload Covid-19 bulletins in the morning, besides sharing data on testing of samples, case doubling rate, contact tracing of those who tested positive — giving a peek into the super-spreaders, case recovery rate; testing of migrants, bifurcating the state they had come from; and also instantaneously share information about death of an individual who had contracted Covid-19. He used to update information about new cases even in midnight, as soon as results came in from Bihar’s 14 testing laboratories.The last update on Covid-19 he posted was around 11am on Wednesday. The state health department or the State Health Society, Bihar, did not have any update after 5.30pm.Patna topped with 167 cases, followed by Munger (133), Rohtas (91), Begusarai (82), Nalanda (78), Madhubani (79), Khagaria (70), Buxar (64), Gopalganj (64), Bhagalpur (59), Jehanabad (58), Banka (51), Siwan (45), Kaimur (44), Nawada (41), Bhojpur (38), Katihar (35), Purnea (31), Muzaffarpur (30), Supaul (27), Aurangabad (26), West Champaran (25), Sheikhpura (24), Darbhanga (22), Saharsa (22), Madhepura (20), East Champaran (19), Arwal (17), Samastipur (16), Vaishali (15), Jamui (15), Lakhisarai (14), Kishanganj (14), Saran (14), Gaya (11), Sitamarhi (9), Sheoar (5), Araria (4).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-s-covid-tally-up-at-1-607/story-09JGvfQ2gESczKFsZMOyeI.html
20-05-2020||City||One death, 11 fresh cases in Punjab, tally 2,095||A 66-year-old Jalandhar woman found infected with Covid-19 died while 11 more persons tested positive for the disease in Punjab on Wednesday, taking the total number of confirmed cases in the state to 2,095.The sexagenarian, Santosh Kumari, a resident of Ishar Nagar in the city, was suffering from renal complication and was put on dialysis at the isolation ward of the civil hospital, a health department official said. She was tested positive a week ago. The district has reported seven deaths due to the coronavirus so far.Also, two persons, including a Dubai-returned man, tested positive in the district which has 217 positive cases.Four more positive cases in AmritsarFour persons were tested positive for Covid-19 in Amritsar on Wednesday.“One of the patients returned from Dubai in a special flight under the Vande Bharat Mission on May 13. Out of the 27 returnees from Amritsar, this is the fourth person testing positive. Two other patients came to Amritsar from Mumbai last week.Also, a person, who came to the city from Gujarat last week has tested positive,” said civil surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore.With this, the total number of Covid-19 patients in the district reached 311.Ludhiana count 177 as 2 found infectedTwo fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported in Ludhiana district. A 27- year-old youth, son of a 63-year-old purchase manager of tyre factory found infected on May 7, tested positive. The father and son are residents of Kabir Nagar. The 63-year-old’s wife was and younger son were also tested positive on May 8.A 30- year- old Railway Protection Force (RPF) jawan tested positive in his repeat test.“The RPF jawan was tested negative on May 11, but he was symptomatic. His repeat sample was taken,” civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said.The department has failed to locate two youths, aged 18 and 22, found positive for the virus. The two visited the flu corner of the civil hospital four days ago.Their details such as phone numbers were found to be incorrect.2 cases in Gurdaspur, one in BarnalaTwo more coronavirus cases were reported in Gurdaspur district. Of the two patients, one youth is from Thikriwal village of Kahnuwan block while the second is resident of Harpura village near Batala. At present, there are three active Covid-19 cases in the district.An 18-year-old resident of Tajoke village in Barnala district was tested positive for the coronavirus. The patient, a combine operator, returned from Andhra Pradesh on May 14 and was under quarantine since.2 more cured in RupnagarTwo more persons tested positive for Covid-19 recovered in Rupnagar distruct. They were discharged from Gian Sagar Medical College and Hospital, Banur.With this, the number of active Covid-19 cases in the district came down to three.(Inputs from Gurdaspur, Barnala and Rupnagar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/one-death-11-fresh-cases-in-punjab-tally-2-095/story-8ZjTuHhrdBBrRlfY26YaoK.html
20-05-2020||Patna||Top health official removed in Bihar||Amid the raging coronavirus pandemic which has so far infected over 1600 people in the state, the Bihar government Wednesday replaced Sanjay Kumar with Udai Singh Kumawat as principal secretary (health), a notification issued with the state’s general administrative department (GAD) said, but cited no reason for the sudden shuffle.While Kumar is a 1990-batch Indian administrative service (IAS) officer, Kumawat is from 1993 batch. Kumar will replace Kumawat in the state’s tourism department, where the latter was principal secretary. Kumawat was posted with the tourism department as its principal secretary since August last year. After serving as joint secretary with the Union finance ministry, He was repatriated to Bihar in August 2017. A senior officer of the Central government alleged that a Kumawat was sent back to his home cadre of Bihar before completing his deputation stint, owing to his controversial stint in the ministry. He was also a member of the special investigation team (SIT) on Black Money Commission by the Centre.A section of senior bureaucrats claimed chief minister Nitish Kumar was unhappy over the way the drive against Covid was being carried out by the health department under Sanjay Kumar’s leadership. “The department was failing to meet the target of conducting 10,000 tests for Covid every day after the massive surge of migrants in the state despite the CM’s insistence. We were able to conduct around only 2,000 tests daily. Doctors and medical staff, the frontline warriors, had also reportedly complained against the officer for taking unreasonable action against their colleagues,” a senior official said.The health department was also unable to ensure opening of private hospitals to resume its normal operations despite repeated reminders from the CM during the videoconferencing with senior officers on Covid.The NItish Kumar government has been under fire from the Opposition over “poor” facilities at quarantine centres, many of which reported incidents of inmates breaking out and fleeing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/top-health-official-removed-in-bihar/story-FKZucAlhQfm3PzisndPhqI.html
20-05-2020||City||Back home, Purnia migrants get jobs ‘tailored’ to skills||Md Hakim, 25 and Md Kamal, 20 are among 73 migrant workers from Purnia who have been engaged in making face masks.Hakim said, “We had never thought that we will get a job as per our choice given that so many people are losing their jobs everywhere due to the Covid pandemic.” Hakim who used to work in Kerala said that now, he won’t even think of going back.Md Kamal said, “I got a job on the eve of Eid. It is a god-given gift. The district administration has been helping us a lot.”Purnia district magistrate (DM) Rahul Kumar said, “During skill mapping of the migrant workers lodged at the quarantine centres at Shrinagar block, we had identified several migrants who had knowledge of tailoring. As many as 73 migrants with tailoring skills have been engaged in making of three-layer masks.”The migrants have completed their quarantine period. “All the 73 migrants identified had come from Kerala by special trains and were quarantined at their home block,” Shrinagar block development officer (BDO) Om Prakash said.“The migrants started making the masks on Wednesday and we are expecting production of at least 1,000 to 1,500 masks daily” he said. “The migrants will earn between ₹600 to ₹ 800 per day depending upon their speed and efficiency,” said the BDO. Meanwhile, over 2,500 migrants who have completed their quarantine period have been engaged in the work under Lohiya Swachh Bihar Abhiyan (LBSA), Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) and Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojna among other government schemes. Also, a few migrants who have completed their quarantine have been engaged in digging ponds, cleaning canals beds, planting trees under Bihar government’s ambitious Jal Jeevan Hariyali mission in several blocks of the district.The Purnia DM said, “About 1,000 skilled migrants will be engaged in agro-based industries run in Bihar Industrial Area of Development (BIADA) in Purnia.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/back-home-purnia-migrants-get-jobs-tailored-to-skills/story-Vwe1QJAT7RAiTFSLyDSx1J.html
20-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab flattens Covid curve over past week||Even as Punjab continues to remain among the top 10 worst-hit states of the country with those testing positive for the coronavirus crossing the 2,000-mark, a dip in the number of new cases in the last week has come as a relief to the authorities concerned. Also, the state witnessed a sharp jump in recovery rate among the infected patients. The development comes after the number of new cases saw a surge of up to 200-300-odd cases a day in the first week of May, especially after the arrival of Sikh pilgrims from Takht Hazur Sahib in Maharashtra’s Nanded.In the past week starting May 13, the state has added has added only 81 cases, as per the data released by the health department.The rate of recovery saw a massive jump with 89% coronavirus patients having been declared cured during the same period. On Wednesday, the data showed only 173 active cases.JUST 200 PATIENTS WERE CURED TILL LAST WEEKUntil last week, only 200 of a total of 1,924 patients were cured, showing only 10% recovery rate. However, with 1,492 patients declared cured in the last week, Punjab’s recovery rate is far ahead of the nine-worst hit states.Figures suggest that Punjab’s positive cases touched 500 on May 1 and crossed the 1,000 mark just within two days on May 3. In next three days, the state crossed 1,500 cases whereas the last 500 cases were added to the tally in 13 days. Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, state nodal officer for Covid-19, said Punjab’s doubling rate of cases increased to 90 days as on Tuesday and it was among the top five states in this regard.“Nearly 1,350 positive patients, including 1,250 Nanded-returned pilgrims and 90 labourers who came to Punjab from other states, were declared cured. The state has improved remarkably on all key points,” said the nodal officer.The state’s mortality rate has also decreased to 1.8%, bringing some respite to the state government which was facing the heat over having fatality rate double the national average.Before the arrival of Nanded pilgrims, the state’s mortality rate at one point of time was more than double the national average, compelling the chief minister to order audit of all deaths. So far, state has witnessed 38 Covid-19 deaths. “Actually, the state faced criticism for mismanagement in bringing the Nanded pilgrims back as their arrival resulted in a sudden increase in cases. At the same time, their release from hospitals improved Punjab’s recovery, fatality and doubling rates,” said a senior health department official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-flattens-covid-curve-over-past-week/story-4vR2dyBie2dhPeJtLmHb3J.html
20-05-2020||City||200 Gurugram cops tested||Gurugram: At least 200 police personnel in Gurugram were tested for the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease after two head constables in the force tested positive on Tuesday. The test reports of the 200 are awaited, said the police Wednesday evening.Officials said the 200 personnel were deployed in the containment zones in the city in the morning shift. They have now been placed under quarantine. They will resume their duties only after 14 days, even if their samples test negative, officials said.A total of 600 policemen are deployed in the 45 containment zones in three shifts in Gurugram. One of the head constables who tested positive was deployed in the morning shift and is believed to have contracted the virus while on duty. The other head constable is suspected to have been infected through a personal contact, officials said.The police have also established a 200-bed quarantine facility for Covid-positive personnel who are asymptomatic and an isolation ward for those who have symptoms. The initiative was taken after reports of the two personnel who tested positive came through and they were shifted to police lines in Manesar.Police officials said they have converted two newly-constructed towers at police lines into a quarantine facility.Also, special arrangements have been made for children and women at the police lines if any personnel’s family members are found positive, though none of the family members have been infected so far, said the police.Police commissioner Muhammad Akil said they had already kept a place ready to set up a quarantine facility. “We have taken all precautionary measures as per the guidelines of the Ministry of Home Affairs. We are strictly implementing social distancing and personal hygiene and there is no dearth of personal protective equipment (PPE),” he said.“We have deployed trained medical staff and doctors with the help of the health department on how to set up quarantine camps for coronavirus-suspected cases from the police force. Their family members are also checked regularly,” said Akil.Police are also modifying three of the department’s vehicles to transport personnel either infected with or suspected of having Covid-19 to hospitals and the quarantine centre in Manesar, officials said.“The drivers of these special vehicles have been directed to wear PPEs as a precaution. A glass screen will be installed to segregate the driver from those sitting behind to maintain social distancing. Hand sanitisers and face gloves are kept in each vehicle,” said Akil.Around 400 police personnel deployed in the containment zones were provided PPEs kits and the commissioner has given directions to make it compulsory to wear protective gears while dealing with the public, officials said.Nearly 5,800 police personnel have been deployed for Covid-19 duties across the city for the last two months. At least 400 personnel are deployed in three shifts at 11 borders and have been asked to maintain social distancing and not to touch any vehicles coming from the Delhi side, said the police.Police said Gurugram has recorded a fewer number of cases among police personnel as compared to other districts and states.More than 600 police personnel who are deployed at places from where migrant workers and labourers are boarding buses were also distributed PPE kits on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/200-gurugram-cops-tested-quarantined-after-two-colleagues-test-positive/story-4PtS6LPqqexHjErQ4bXR7O.html
20-05-2020||City||Private offices allowed to operate with 50% strength, new roster for shops prepared||Gurugram: Private offices in the district can operate with 50% work strength while the rest of the staff will have to work from home, as per the new directions issued by the district administration on Wednesday for the fourth phase of the lockdown. However, manufacturing units located in industrial and other areas can operate with 100% strength. The district administration has also prepared a new roster based on different categories of shops which shall be effective till May 31.As per the new directive, standalone shops, shops in HSVP markets, and those in commercial markets but selling essential products can remain open for the whole week from 7.30am to 9pm. The essential item shops in category A include grocery, dairy, fruits and vegetables, chemist, and meat and poultry establishments. Shops in this category also include courier and postal services, agricultural equipment, animal feed, among others. Under the B category, the shops and services include plumbers, electricians, AC repair, cycle repairs, mobile and laptop repairs, photo stat, refrigerator, plywood and timber shops, construction material and hardware shops, water purifiers and related services. These shops are allowed to open on Monday, Wednesday and Friday between 8am and 6pm.The shops in category C can remain open on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday from 8am to 6pm. These include shops selling gift items, toys, bags and suitcases, jewellery, and bedding and furniture. Authorities said that those shops which are not included in A and B categories can be included in C category on the discretion of the sub-divisional magistrate. The officials have also stipulated that more than five people are allowed inside a shop. “All private offices can operate with 50% strength and remaining working from home,” said the order issued by Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, Gurugram. The order also said that government offices shall operate as per directions issued on Tuesday. Besides, employees of both private and government establishments will have to download Aarogya Setu application.The state government has also directed that municipal authorities must ensure that self distancing norms are followed strictly in the markets to prevent the spread of Covid-19. The market associations and trade associations have also been asked to coordinate with municipal authorities and local police to ensure that norms related to maintain social distance, wearing masks and marking the space outside shops is maintained. All commercial establishments have been asked to paint markings to ensure distance of six feet is maintained between two persons.To ensure that norms of social distancing are followed strictly, the district administration on Wednesday also issued standard operating procedure for public areas where wearing face masks is mandatory. The authorities also stated that social distancing at the workplaces and in public and private transports will have to be maintained. Besides, provisions for thermal scanning, sanitization of work areas and door handles will have to be ensured. Citizens who are above 65 years, pregnant women, and people suffering from severe illness have been asked to stay at home. Gathering of more than five persons has been banned and the number of people who can attend social gatherings has also been fixed. The authorities have also fixed a penalty of Rs 1,000 for spitting in public place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/private-offices-allowed-to-operate-with-50-strength-new-roster-for-shops-prepared/story-iCQM0cdJtgCJkelqPcKk9K.html
20-05-2020||City||Gurugram: Covid-19 containment zones increased to 45; all zones now in Ggm block of district||Gurugram: The district administration has increased the containment zones in Gurugram to 45 from 37 after the city saw a spurt in coronavirus (Covid-19) disease cases in recently. In a revised order issued by Gurugram deputy commissioner Amit Khatri on Wednesday, 11 new zones were added, while four were de-notified for not reporting any fresh cases in the past 28 days. The total number of cases in the district on Wednesday stood at 226 from 220 a day earlier. The new areas in Gurugram are – Palam Vihar (Block D), Sector 57 (block adjacent to Harmony Home Society), Khandsa (Lane 4), Rajiv Nagar (Lane 3), Sector 56 (Block D), Sector 17 (Lane 13), Sikanderpur (Lane towards Metro pillar 51), Sector 22 (Peer Baba lane, Mullahera), Sushant Lok 1 (Block C), Mohan Nagar (N Block), and Sector 9A ( Pocket 3).All containment zones are now in Gurugram and none are in the other three blocks of the district — Sohna, Pataudi and Farrukhnagar.The district health department, along with the administration, has also decided to reduce the perimeter of containment zones to one kilometre from three kilometres. It can include lanes or mohallas where coronavirus cases are reported. Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Monday said that except containment zones, the remaining areas will be classified as orange zones where activities will resume. In containment zones within red and orange zones, maximum precautions are required including strict perimeter control, to ensure there is no movement of population in or out of these zones except for medical emergencies or supply of essential goods and services. The containment zone list was last revised on May 11 where new areas like DLF phase 2 (L block), DLF Phase 3 (Hermitage Housing Society), Basai village and Basai Enclave part 1, Bhawani Enclave, Khandsa (lane adjacent Shyam Public School), Nathupur village (Om Prakash lane), Kherki Dhaula village, Bajghera village, Baliawas, Jamalpur, and Sheetla Colony were added.The other affected areas, continuing with the last revised list on May 8, are - Jharsa village (Sector 39), Sirhaul ( lanes 1, 7 & 6-B), Meghdoot Apartments, Sector 10A, Om Nagar, Sector 12 (Prem Nagar, Lotus Hospital, Rajiv Nagar), Dundahera (Police Station Road, community centre), Ardee City society (Block A, B, C) and Chandan Vihar.It also includes Ashok Vihar, Godrej Frontier Society (Tower K), Islampur Village, Kadipur Enclave (Lane 4), Surat Nagar Phase II (Lane no. 23), Khandsa mandi, Anand Garden (Lane 2) and Ashok Garden (Lane 3), Lal Nursing Home and Kharbanda Hospital (back side), Krishna Nagar (Lane 2), Jyoti Park (lanes 7 and 9) Baldev Nagar (lane 14) Krishna Colony (lane 2).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-covid-19-containment-zones-increased-to-45-all-zones-now-in-ggm-block-of-district/story-OFRxBi2hGQbjs82SMEbEhI.html
20-05-2020||Gurugram||Aftermath of stone-pelting: Illegal cross-border route blocked||As the authorities raised a wall at the border adjoining Salapur Khera village in Delhi and Gurugram on Wednesday, used by many to circumvent the border checkpost, many daily wage workers alleged harassment from the police and said that they were denied entry despite procuring movement passes. Several feared that they would lose their jobs if they were not allowed through.The 10-meter lane in the village was a route between Gurugram and Delhi. It earlier had a wall that blocked such an access. However, over the last 20 years, wall was partially demolished and the route was used by thousands — mostly migrant workers employed in industries and factories in Udyog Vihar and Palam Vihar — to commute between the two cities.“I have been going to work using this route for a decade. Now, there is a wall blocking the movement,” said Sudhir Kumar, a Gorakhpur native, who works in a software company in the city. “What is the point of issuing movement passes if the entry is barred. After I was stopped from entering from Salapur, I went to the Dundahera side but police did not allow me to pass. We have suffered already due to the lockdown and are struggling to survive.”Avinash, who works as a delivery person with an e-commerce firm in sector 18, said, “I was on my way to work when I was stopped by the police. I showed them the e-pass but they said it was invalid and tore it up. The police said only essential service workers would be allowed to pass. I have not been paid for past two months as I could not go to work due to the lockdown. This has worsened the situation.”Police said that they had deployed force and the civic authorities constructed the wall at Salapur border after complaints from residents of sector-21 and after the Haryana government had issued instructions to seal interstate borders on May 1. “This is not a legal route for commuting,” said Rajender Kumar, SHO, Palam Vihar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/aftermath-of-stone-pelting-illegal-cross-border-route-blocked/story-ammb5X9E2al5HwYMqJFCtJ.html
20-05-2020||Gurugram||Seven cops hurt as Delhi mob pelts stones upon being denied cross-border entry||At least seven policemen were injured after a large group of people, mostly factory workers, allegedly pelted stones at them after being denied entry to the city through the Salapur (Delhi) border in Palam Vihar on Wednesday morning. Over 1,070 people were booked and three arrested, the police said.The police said the stone-pelting went on for around 25 minutes, during which additional force was deployed and the situation was brought under control. Senior police officials also reached the spot.The workers and residents of Salapur Khera village, however, alleged that police had charged at them with their canes after denying them entry and tearing up the movement passes issued by their companies. The police have refuted these allegations.Salapur is located in Delhi, adjoining Sector 21 of Gurugram. The route that is currently being used has been cut through vacant plots of the sector. The incident comes exactly a week after residents of Sector 21, on May 14, sought stricter vigil by the police at the porous border, over concerns of spread of Covid-19.According to the police, a large crowd of at least 1,000 people — mostly daily wage earners working in private companies in the industrial hub of Udyog Vihar — had gathered on foot and cycles at the Salapur border around 8.30am, demanding entry into the city via Sector 21, a residential sector developed by the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) over two decades ago.The police said when the workers were stopped, they started sloganeering and anti-social elements incited the crowd to pelt stones.Rajender Kumar, station house officer, (SHO), Palam Vihar police station, said, “We tried to aggressively push the crowd back, but they started pelting stones at the police. The workers were supported by village residents. An additional force of 50 policemen was called in and the situation was brought under control. This is not a legal route for commuting. We had deployed police at Salapur border after complaints from residents, and after the Haryana government issued instructions to seal interstate borders on May 1.”“This is not a legal route for commuting. Attaining a movement pass does not imply that one can commute through inter-state borders on a daily basis. After crossing the border with a movement pass, it is the responsibility of the employers to make arrangements for the stay of workers within the state. We have communicated the same to employers,” said Kumar.One of the persons named in the FIR, who works in a private company in Manesar, said that he was beaten with a stick. “I was on my way to work when police stopped me. So, I decided to return. Suddenly a policeman charged towards me and assaulted me with a stick,” he said, adding that he sustained a shoulder injury. The police denied that he was beaten up and said that they were investigating.In a video circulated on an instant messaging application, several people, standing in a narrow lane of Salapur Khera village, are seen hurling stones and bricks at the police. Some of the people can be heard saying, “Don’t throw stones. Let’s just talk.” A policeman is also seen throwing stones at the protesters, which was denied by police officials. In another such video, at least two police officials can be seen hitting the workers with a cane as police push them back.The police department said they are yet to establish the authenticity of the videos.The workers alleged that police had stopped them despite them having requisite passes. They alleged that a pregnant woman was also assaulted. Shakuntala Devi, a worker, said, “Police stopped us from entering the city and when we protested, they assaulted a woman and then workers pelted the stones. She had to be rushed to the hospital.”Police denied the allegations as ”hearsay”. SHO Kumar said, “No woman was assaulted in the incident by the police.”A sub-inspector from the Kapashera police station in Delhi, the police station under whose jurisdiction Salapur Khera falls, said that they had not received any complaint of a woman being assaulted from the village.A police official privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said, “Seven policemen sustained minor injuries. They were protected by the cane shields. In the FIR, six people have been mentioned by name and 1,070 are unidentified.”In the FIR, police said that over 900 men and 170 women had allegedly attacked them after argument over passage through the border. Police also said that the window panes of a police vehicle were shattered during the stone-pelting.Residents of Sector 21 have repeatedly demanded that the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) build a wall at the periphery and block the route permanently.Shashipal Yadav, the president of Sector 21 residents’ welfare association (RWA), said, “Sector 21 shared a long peripheral boundary wall with Salapur until five years ago. The boundary wall was broken at places by Salapur residents to make illegal routes. The MCG is aware of the issue. We have demanded by writing letters to raise a wall and block illegal routes.”Vinay Pratap Singh, the MCG commissioner, said, “The MCG took cognizance of the offence and issued instructions to field officials to inspect the site and take action, including raising a boundary wall, if needed. Walls are being raised to block the movement of people through this route.”A case was registered against the accused persons under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Disaster Management Act at Palam Vihar police station on Wednesday, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/seven-cops-hurt-as-delhi-mob-pelts-stones-upon-being-denied-cross-border-entry/story-msShtzm4BFfZRnQlTJJsmI.html
20-05-2020||Gurugram||Summer vacation in confinement for city children||From video-calling friends and family to participating in online multiplayer games and workshops, families are turning to technology to keep themselves entertained and engaged during the summer vacation amid the outbreak of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). In view of the Covid-19 pandemic and Lockdown 4.0, which will be in place till May 31, several families have to skip the yearly ritual of visiting their hometowns or indulging in other outdoor recreational activities during the summer vacation, which has already started in many schools. While some parents said that they were relying on video calls and gaming sessions to bond with relatives in other cities, others said they would utilise the break from online classes conducted by schools to spend more time with children in various activities and chores at home. Tripti Singh, a parent, said that her family can’t visit their hometown for the summer break like they do every year due to the restrictions. To make up for that, her children are relying on frequent video calls to stay in touch with their cousins in different cities. “Since the children were introduced to regular online classes, they are spending more time on gadgets. They chat with their cousins on video calls or play online games such as ludo, which keeps them engaged despite the physical distance,” Singh said.Singh’s daughter Shivranjini Rathor said that summer vacations were usually the time to connect with friends and cousins, but with the lockdown in place, video calls were helping her stay in touch with loved ones. “Video calls with friends and family have increased quite a lot during the lockdown. They help kill time,” Rathor, who also spends time playing online ludo with her cousins, said. “There are many options, but most of my time is spent playing multi-player ludo with people from different places,” the Class 9 student added.Pooja Mihani, another parent, said that the summer vacation usually meant a trip to her hometown in Uttarakhand, but under lockdown conditions, the break this year would be different. “Now our days usually start with a visit to the park. This time, since we are confined to the city, we will be spending time in activities that can be done at home,” Mihani said.She said that her family was keeping children engaged with role-play, household chores, and games such as Pictionary and ludo. “Due to the pandemic, children are already living in a stressed environment. As a family, we are participating in various activities such as cooking or baking together. We are making the most of this time; we may not spend so much of it together again,” Mihani said.Sonal Kaushik, the mother of a Class 9 student, said that her son’s school has a shorter summer break this year, which her son plans to spend at home relaxing and revising the syllabus that had been covered so far. “Every year, we travel to ensure that the children meet their grandparents in UP and Haryana, or plan trips to other locales. Not this year, though,” Kaushik, a professional artist, said. She said that she was planning to engage herself with artwork.Jyoti Raghavan, a mother of two, said that she was contemplating enrolling her children in online workshops to keep them occupied during the summer break. “Every year, during the summer vacation, we travel to new places for around 15 days. For the remaining part of the vacation, we enrol the children in workshops or sports camps. This time, we will be spending the vacation at home,” Raghavan said, adding that she was planning to enrol her children in one of several online courses and workshops to ensure that they are not bored in confinement. “Half their day is spent in online classes right now. During the vacation, children have a lot of free time on their hands. What will they do? We have to enrol them for something. Besides these activities, children have got used to engaging with friends via video calls and, hopefully, that will also keep them occupied,” she said.However, summer vacation is not all fun and games, children are also required to complete holiday homework that they have received from schools. “We have given or students holiday homework so that there is some semblance of a routine in their lives and they keep themselves occupied. The homework doesn’t include a lot of written work and instead focuses on creative activities and hands-on learning. These activities have been designed keeping in mind that children will not be able to move around,” Anshu Arora, principal, Amity International School, Sector 43, said. Other schools have also assigned their students minimal holiday homework.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/summer-vacation-in-confinement-for-city-children/story-u2DiIc5rttrq483u2zDruM.html
20-05-2020||Gurugram||Aarogya Setu mandatory, handshakes prohibited for athletes||The Haryana government released the standard operating procedure (SOP) for sports activities to resume in stadia and complexes on Tuesday evening. According to the guidelines, sports equipment such as helmets, eye and face protectors shall not be shared, a distance of two metres shall be maintained between players during training, handshakes are prohibited, central air conditioning shall be avoided and medical rooms shall be sterilised twice daily when players get back to practice sessions. Meanwhile, sporting events and gathering of spectators continue to remain prohibited. The ministry of home affairs (MHA) had announced a further extension of the nationwide lockdown till May 31 to curb the spread of Covid-19, with certain relaxations in the fourth phase. In an order issued on Sunday, the MHA said sports complexes are allowed to open, clearing the passage for players to resume training which came to a halt in mid-March. Complying with the MHA order, the state government on Tuesday cleared the path for stadiums to reopen with certain norms. The state government has made the Aarogya Setu app mandatory for all athletes and staff. It also added a slew of measures to counter the threat posed by the deadly virus, such as teleconsultation with doctors rather than in-person consults, stringent supervision of athletes’ health, increased sanitation measures, etc.Besides several private academies, players train at the government’s Tau Devi Lal Stadium in the city. Detailed instructions have also been given authorities to sanitise facilities inside sports complexes. “Hand sanitisers shall be made available at the entrance and a notice shall be displayed with guidelines on proper sanitisation process. Foot pedal sanitiser shall be placed at entry point of rooms of officials, medical centre, dining hall/mess and other strategic points throughout the centre (sic),” read the SOP guidelines.According to the guidelines, the trainees and staff should strictly adhere to the social distancing norm of 1.5 to two metres between each individual. “Handshakes and other forms of greetings which need physical contact shall be prohibited (sic),” read the SOP. Personal equipment such as bows, guns, swords, javelins, discus, rackets should not be shared and must be disinfected after every use.Priyanka Thakran, a 23-year-old archer from the city, who bagged two medals, gold as well as silver, in archery at the Khelo India University Games, 2020, said the SOPs are a good initiative for players to get back to training. “In archery, everyone has their own equipment, so the concept of sharing doesn’t exist, but sanitising our bows and arrows regularly is a good step which we will religiously follow,” Thakran said.Coaches in the city have decided to instruct their players that training will take place keeping in mind enough distance from each player. Manoj Sharma, a boxing coach, said, “I have told my players that we will train while maintaining social distance. Also, regular cleaning of boxing gloves will be a necessity for any player who comes to the stadium.”The guidelines also state that the use of masks will be compulsory for players, and training may be performed in small groups of eight to 10 people. “In team events 18 players and two coaches can play for one hour and for individual events not more than 10 players should play at a time (sic),” read the SOP.Strict guidelines concerning the nutrition and diet of players have been released, with an emphasis on placing any package from outside in the sunlight for some time before giving it to the players. “All packed food/fresh fruits etc supplies delivered at centre shall be placed in an open area for a period of 24 hours (cardboard packing) or 72 hours (plastic packing) before usage. Unwrapped items like fruits or vegetables shall be washed under running water immediately after being delivered at centre. Fruits and vegetables may be soaked in diluted vinegar, salt or lemon water for few hours and left to dry prior to consumption (sic),” read the guidelines.Besides these rules and regulations, the state government has made it mandatory for the furniture in medical rooms to be sterilised at least twice daily. Athletes below 18 years of age shall take written confirmation from their parents that they will be responsible if anything happens to them due to the pandemic. All swimming pools shall remain closed in the state.Raj Yadav, the district sports officer, said, “We will abide by the rules and regulations set by the department. Accordingly, sports activities will resume in the city.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/aarogya-setu-mandatory-handshakes-prohibited-for-athletes/story-qYn5VX5b6xUc3uWUM9tZ8N.html
20-05-2020||City||Section 144 extended till end of month in GB Nagar, prior permission required for wedding||Noida: In the wake of the extension of lockdown for the fourth time, the Gautam Budh Nagar police commissionerate has extended the imposition of Section 144 of CrPC in the district till May 31.The commissionerate had, for the first time this year, imposed Section 144 on February 15 for a month during the festival and examination season. However, as the Covid-19 pandemic spread across the country, the Section 144 imposition was extended till May 17, and now till May 31.“During this period, any political, cultural, religious, or sports-related demonstration or rally or any other programme will not be allowed while all religious places will remain closed. The gathering of more than five people will not be allowed s in any area,” said an order issued by Ashutosh Dwiwedi, additional deputy commissioner of police (law and order).In addition, prior permission will have to be sought for wedding ceremonies in which participation of only 20 people is allowed. “In case of death also, the last rites will not have more than 20 people who have to maintain social distancing,” said the order.Police officials also said that apart from personnel with essential services, movement of all people will be prohibited between 7pm to 7am.“People older than 65 years of age and younger than 10, pregnant women, and sick persons will not be permitted to venture out for unnecessary reasons while malls, cinema halls, bars, gyms, sports complexes, and swimming pools, etc. will be closed for the public,” said the police order.The police also said that walking in parks will only be permitted between 7-10 am and 4-7 pm. For emergency vehicles and three wheelers, more than two people and two kids, apart from the driver, will not be allowed while only one person (another if it’s a woman) will be allowed on a two wheeler.“Canteens, sweet shops and restaurants will only be permitted to deliver. Public spitting is also prohibited. All these orders will be implemented under Section 144 which will last till May 31. Any violations will lead to action under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code,” said Dwivedi in his order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/section-144-extended-till-end-of-month-in-gb-nagar-prior-permission-required-for-wedding/story-jN1lje227T5BXVWy7HmMeJ.html
20-05-2020||City||Man arrested for impersonating civil officers||A 21-year-old man was arrested by the Jarcha police on Tuesday for allegedly impersonating civil services officers on social media and duping people.The man was identified as one Ravi Singh of Pratapgarh, who lived in Surajpur, from where he was arrested.According to the police , Ravi specifically impersonated IAS, IPS and IRS officials by creating fake profiles on social media. The police said he would message people who already knew these officials and claim he was in dire financial trouble to dupe them of money.“He was living with a relative and had used his phone to create the fake Facebook profile impersonating an IPS officer. He’d got in touch with the officer’s relatives online and taken money from them. During interrogation, it came to light that he had also made profiles of an IAS officer, an IRS officer and another civil servant. We also found out he had already been jailed in Delhi for impersonating an IPS officer as well as an IRS officer,” Rajesh Kumar Singh, the deputy commissioner of police, Zone 3, said.Ravi has also been arrested in Surajpur and jailed for duping one Surjeet Singh of ₹56,000 by impersonating an IPS officer.“He was released on parole on April 5 because of the ongoing pandemic. He impersonated specific officers, created fake profiles, and then targeted their acquittances for money,” the DCP said.The police said that Ravi has been conning people for the past two years at least. They are verifying how many profiles he created, how many persons he duped and how much money he made, along with how many cases he may be involved in. They said he counted on the fact that people would not ask him the nature of his troubles as he was a government officer.The police have obtained some of his call recordings, though they suspect he has been working alone, and seized two phones from him.The police said Ravi is a Class 12 graduate and had told his family that he works at a call centre.He was booked under sections 463 of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the IT Act. He was produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-arrested-for-impersonating-civil-officers/story-MV5xet3l0jHSEzEMv71DpM.html
20-05-2020||City||GB Nagar: Parks reopened, G Noida resumes land acquisition work||NOIDA: The two development authorities in Gautam Budh Nagar -- Noida and Greater Noida -- on Wednesday decided to reopen the parks in the district, following the guidelines issued by the Uttar Pradesh government for the fourth phase of lockdown. While the Greater Noida authority is yet to set timings for the parks, the Noida authority has reopened city parks from 7am to 10am and 4pm to 7pm. However, visitors will have to wear mask and follow social distancing norms, officials from both the authorities said. The two authorities had shut down the city parks after the nationwide lockdown imposed on March 25 to contain the spread of Covid-19.The Greater Noida authority has also decided to open its main administrative building in Knowledge Park-IV for visitors and start land acquisition for new industrial projects with an aim to lure manufacturing companies from Japan, China, and Taiwan, among others, under eased guidelines for the Lockdown 4.0, said the authority officials. The Greater Noida authority chief executive officer, Narendra Bhooshan, on Wednesday directed the staff to conduct sanitisation drive in city’s all commercial markets, parks, bus shelters and other public spaces. He also directed the staff to start preparing electronic files instead of traditional paper files to process various routine or big budget projects, including land acquisition from farmers. The authority wants to acquire 1,400 acres of agricultural land via direct buying from farmers in order to ready industrial pockets to be allotted for manufacturing units.“We have directed all project engineers and other staff members to restart land acquisition process via making e-files and following all standard operating procedures. Our office will also reopen for visitors. However, visitors must wear mask and stand in earmarked circles to approach a desk for any work,” said Bhooshan. The authority office, which was closed for visitors after March 25, usually witnesses about 1,000 visitors daily. Now, it will restart its all important jobs that include mortgage permission for builders or individual allottees, map approval, issuance of occupancy certificate for group housing or other buildings, other property related works.The Greater Noida authority will disinfect lifts in its office, door handles, gates and other such points which people generally touch. The disinfection in the office will be done twice in the working hours, the officials said.However, the Noida authority has decided against opening its main administrative office to visitors for now. But the Noida authority has opened city parks to visitors with some riders. It has also asked residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) in respective sectors to ensure that the visitors to the parks obey social distancing norms.“All visitors to the city parks will have to wear a mask and follow social distancing rules. We have asked RWAs to ensure that all social distancing rules are adhered to by visitors,” said Rajeev Tyagi, chief engineer of Noida authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gb-nagar-parks-reopened-g-noida-resumes-land-acquisition-work/story-OE0HeiNrAVgTLdADkvuZnK.html
20-05-2020||City||Guard at Vivo plant’s construction site tested false positive, being shunned by villagers||Noida: A 38-year-old third-party employee of mobilemaker Vivo India, who was discharged after spending over three days in the isolation ward of the Sharda Hospital while undergoing treatment for Coronavirus (Covid-19) is now facing boycott from villagers. Mahesh and one more colleague from the construction site of Vivo in Greater Noida were found false positive on May 19. The man is a resident of Nawada village in the Dankaur block of Greater Noida and was admitted on May 16 while his mother, wife and two children were kept under institutional quarantine. On May 19, he was found negative for the infection and his reports from a private lab of Gurugram turned out to be false positive.“Villagers are scared to even talk to me and are running away from our family. I have told them multiple times that I am negative and the first report was wrong. I even showed my negative report, but everybody is giving us a weird look. No officer came to remove the barricades from the lane where I live and to inform everybody that my street is not sealed anymore because I was always negative for the infection. I removed the barricades myself,” said Mahesh, who works as a guard at the construction site of the new Vivo manufacturing plant. One of Mahesh’s cow died of hunger as the family was away and nobody fed four of his cattle. “My animals were inside the house and nobody fed them properly as everybody was scared to come close to our house. One of our neighbours threw some dry fodder through the window which helped the remaining three to survive. The surviving cattle are also not keeping well and has stopped giving milk. The mistake of the lab has caused me financial loss too,” said Mahesh.“I want the administration or the concerned lab authorities to compensate the losses I have faced and also the mental stress I have to go through following the behaviour of villagers. I am keeping myself under home quarantine to ensure that nobody faces any problem because of me. The Vivo officials have asked me to write an application mentioning the problems faced by me,” added Mahesh.In a statement released by Vivo officials, the company said: “The company had resumed its manufacturing operations on May 9 at its plant in Greater Noida. The facility continues to abide by all prescribed SOPs to ensure safety and well being of its current 3000 employees (30% of total workforce capacity) that continues to work at the state-of-the-art facility in Gautam Budh Nagar.” “No worker at the Vivo factory has been found Covid positive. However, at the construction site of the new Vivo manufacturing plant, 15 kilometres away from the operational factory and managed by a third-party construction company, two construction workers (third-party employees) were misdiagnosed. Nonetheless, as per the latest lab test reports that came in today, both the workers have been found negative,” it added.Nipun Marya, Director - Brand Strategy, Vivo India, said: “Health and safety of our employees and partners are of paramount importance to us. No vivo employee has tested positive till date and the company are taking all precautionary measures and adhering to all government guidelines.” The district magistrate has asked the local police to ensure that Mahesh doesn’t face any boycott from the villagers. “I have asked concerned officials to look into the matter. We will ensure that the Vivo employee doesn’t face any boycott by the villagers. He is negative and he has every right to live comfortably in his house,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate, GB Nagar.Four new Covid-19 cases in GB NagarThe health department reported four new cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday. The total number of cases has reached 293 in the district. The patients include a 68-year-old man from Sector 78 from the Sunshine Helios society. The patient contracted infection from the earlier patient from the area. A 9-month-old boy who was found positive for the infection was admitted on Tuesday but officials tested him again. He was again found positive after which he was counted in the total number of Covid-19 cases.An 80-year-old man was from Block B of Sector 110 was also found positive for the infection. The man was undergoing treatment at the Yatharth Hospital and it is expected that he contracted infection over there. He was admitted at the Sharda Hospital on Tuesday.A 27-year-old woman from sector 15 was also found positive for the infection. Her source of infection is yet to be identified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/guard-at-vivo-plant-s-construction-site-tested-false-positive-being-shunned-by-villagers/story-JeCiSmJw4bF00QIaeIOT8K.html
20-05-2020||City||Migrants wait for buses as political slugfest goes on||Ghaziabad: Even as the Congress and the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh remained locked in an escalating fight over transportation for migrant, hundreds of workers have been reaching Anand Vihar-Kaushambi border in Ghaziabad in the hope of catching a bus to their hometowns. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had offered to send 1000 buses for ferrying migrants to their natives in Uttar Pradesh. The UP government had accepted the offer and first asked the Congress to send the buses to Lucknow for necessary inspection, and then tweaked the instructions and asked the party to send 500 buses at each of the state’s border with Delhi in Noida and Ghaziabad.According to the transport officials, no bus has reached its destination point in Ghaziabad or Noida. “We heard that Priyanka Gandhi was sending buses to Ghaziabad so we came here but buses were not available. The cops deployed at the Delhi-Ghaziabad border told us to go away and said that there were no buses. We are still roaming around in hope to getting buses to our home towns,” said Anil Kumar, a migrant worker who had come from Bahadurgarh in Haryana and a native of Rae Bareli in Uttar Pradesh.Like Kumar, Kamla Shankar also came to the border from Kanawani near Indirapuram in hope of getting buses.“My grandfather has passed away and I need to go to my home town in Allahabad. So our group of about 8-10 people came to Kaushambi in hope of getting buses. There was news that 1000 buses were coming to UP so we came here. But there were no buses available,” he added.The Ghaziabad administration has been running bus services to cities in UP from Morta on Delhi-Meerut Road and had decided against running buses from Kaushambi after a major influx of migrant workers in the last week of March at UPSRTC’s Kaushambi depot when the lockdown was announced.The officials of state-run UP State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) said they have ferried about 50,000 migrant workers to different cities in UP in the past one week.“We have been running about 200 buses per day to ferry migrant workers to their home towns in UP such as Jhansi, Balia and Gorakhpur. Nowadays the frequency of buses has come down to 75-80 buses per day as train services has also started from Ghaziabad. Earlier, we had about 400 UPSRTC buses in Ghaziabad and now we have received 100 more buses,” said AK Singh, regional manager, UPSRTC.He said the current fleet strength of UPSRTC buses is enough to ferry migrant workers.“Even if the (Congress’) buses arrive, we already have sufficient buses with us to cater to migrant workers. The number of those coming in seeking transport has also reduced after the state government pressed in trains. We estimate that the number of incoming migrant workers will also get reduced in another week. Migrant workers arrived at the border and the police were making regular announcements.They told workers that no buses were available and requested them to go back,” he added.Since May 15, the Ghaziabad administration has been catering to migrant workers from UP and Bihar as three trains each per day to the cities in two states have been leaving from Ghaziabad railway station.According to officials, a train each is ferrying an average of about 1200-1400 passengers per day.“Our officials were present till the late night on Tuesday at Ramlila Ground in Indirapuram and also at Sahibabad in case any of the 1000 buses sent by the Congress reaches Ghaziabad. But no buses have come so far and we are waiting for directions,” said RR Soni, regional transport officer.The Anand Vihar-Kaushambi border has already been sealed by the Ghaziabad administration.Awanish Awasthi, UP’s additional chief secretary, had said on Tuesday that UP CM has directed for 100% utilisation of entire fleet of about 12,000-odd UPSRTC buses.“We have about 2 lakh workers who are coming to UP each day from buses and trains from different states. We have about 1,044 trains which have come in or are in the process of reaching UP. The fleet of about 12000 UPSRTC buses has also been roped in for ferrying migrant workers. Each district has been given permission to run at least 200 buses and no migrant workers will have to walk to his home,” he said on Wednesday.“We have increased trains and buses in past couple of days. They are in operation from Ghaziabad, Noida, Saharanpur, Jhansi, Mathura, Prayagraj, Kanpur, Moradabad and being sent to different cities,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/migrants-wait-for-buses-as-political-slugfest-goes-on/story-z9zAyWHCBcStHWLMva1UhJ.html
20-05-2020||Delhi||North municipality teachers launch ‘symbolic protest’ against non-payment of salaries||Around 3,500 North Delhi Municipal Corporation teachers — who are currently engaged by the Delhi government in dry ration/food distribution duty, quarantine centres and for survey work — have launched a protest against non-payment of salaries..The “symbolic protest”, in which the teachers are wearing black bands and black outfits, was launched on May 16 and is against non-payment of salaries for the past two months , March and April. The north corporation, in total, employs 7,500 teachers, and their total salary bill comes to Rs 64 crore per month, officials said.The north body’s standing committee chairperson, Jai Prakash, said, “We pay our teachers, sanitation workers, doctors, nurses, domestic mosquito breeding checkers (DBCs) and other staff from the money that comes from the Delhi Government under the ‘Plan Head’ annually. Last financial year (2019-20), we got ₹1,850 crore for the year under this head, and ₹568 crore of it was paid to us in the first quarter (April).”“This year, however, we have got only ₹ 222 crore, which is Rs. 346 crore less. We are struggling and have already written in this regard to the chief Minister and held a meeting with Lieutenant Governor, Anil Baijal, on this issue. But we have not got any response from the Delhi government so far,” he said.Ira Singhal, the north body spokesperson, said, “We cannot pay these people from our own funds because our internal sources of revenue — house tax, parking, advertisement, toll tax, community hall bookings — have all dried up because of the lockdown.”The Delhi government refused to comment on the issue.Meanwhile, teachers said that they have been suffering for no fault of their own.“I have been working in north municipality schools since 1998. We never faced a problem of delayed salaries before. But for the past six years now, we teachers are getting paid only once in three months said Kiran Sardana, who teaches in a north municipality school in Kishan Vihar. “Before COVID, we would at least borrow money from lenders, shopkeepers, etc., but now, due to lockdown, no one is willing to oblige. I have EMIs to pay on a flat I purchased. Plus, there are elderly parents at home with health problems and medical bills, and children, whose school fee need to be paid,” said Balwan Singh, another north corporation teacher.The municipality teachers’ union said that they are currently engaged on COVID pandemic duties under the Disaster Management Act, and thereby cannot hold dharna (demonstration) or stop work, which, otherwise, makes them liable to arrest and legal action.“Therefore, we are only showing our disappointment and anguish wearing these black bands. However, we are constantly writing to the Delhi Government, Prime Minister’s Office, Ministry of Home Affairs and Finance through Twitter and e-mails. While we are sincerely discharging all our duties, including teaching at this time, the authorities must understand that we also have families,” said Ramnivas Solanki, General Secretary of the municipal teachers association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/north-municipality-teachers-launch-symbolic-protest-against-non-payment-of-salaries/story-WAgdh0TgHxynojxQBinOTP.html
20-05-2020||City||Ghaziabad framing plan for opening markets||The opening of markets in Ghaziabad will take a couple of days as officials are considering various models under which shops can be opened while ensuring crowd control and social distancing.District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said during the meeting with market association members, various models for opening markets were put forward and the district officials have been asked to draw up a plan accordingly.“We are considering various models -- opening different markets in a staggered manner; an odd-even plan for shops or even a left-side, right-side plan for shops. I have asked officials to draw up a plan so that everything is put in place to minimise huge gatherings,” Pandey said.“Initially we would ask the traders to thoroughly sanitise their shops. Our local agencies will also ensure that market areas are properly cleaned and sanitised,” he said.Pandey said the commuting to Delhi will continue to be restricted. “The interdistrict movement may be allowed to Noida and Greater Noida. But we will have to seek state government’s directions for opening the borders with Delhi,” he said.The state officials have already sought a list of containment zones and Red zones in Ghaziabad district and a list is being finalised by the chief medical officer.“The administration officials are presently dealing with the task of sending migrant workers back to their home towns. Any opening of markets will also attract thousands of people on a daily basis. So a balance has to be maintained while opening shops,” a district administration official, on condition of anonymity, said.Officials said that the guidelines are likely to be finalised by May 21. Under the fourth phase of the nationwide lockdown, which kicked in on May 18 and will continue till May 31, the Centre had allowed states to decide on restrictions and zoning of areas based on Covid prevalence.On May 1, the Ghaziabad district moved out of red zone to orange as per the classification by of the Union health ministry. Among certain restrictions, the night-time curfew between 7pm and 7am is still applicable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-framing-plan-for-opening-markets/story-pApZ87yefwoRGFqc3yVAlL.html
20-05-2020||Noida||Noida admin introduces odd-even system for opening shops||The Gautam Budh Nagar district administration Wednesday issued an advisory on opening markets in the different localities and said shops will have to follow an odd-even system for remaining open, similar to the pan adopted in Delhi.According to the advisory issued by district magistrate Suhas LY, all shopkeepers will have to follow safety norms, to stop any further spread of the Covid-19.Additional commissioner of commercial tax (Noida division) Vinay Kumar said according to the guidelines of the ministry of home affairs (MHA) and the state government, all shops in rural and urban areas, except those in containment zones, have been given the permission to operate. “Since maintaining social distancing is a must in a pandemic situation, the shopkeepers of different areas have been asked to follow the odd-even scheme strictly. It will not only reduce crowding in markets, but will also help in maintaining social distancing,” he said.The odd-even scheme for shops follows the same principle of the road rationing scheme whereby shops with even numbers will open on Monday, Wednesday and Friday and odd-numbered ones will open on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. This will ensure that on any given day, only half the shops in a market will remain open. Even shops in Delhi are currently following this scheme. Kumar said it has been made mandatory for all the shopkeepers and staff, to use masks, gloves, hand-wash and sanitisers. “They have also been asked not to entertain any customer who comes to their shops without masks on. None of the shops, except those selling essential commodities, will remain open after 7pm,” he said. Sushil Kumar Jain, the convener of Delhi-NCR chapter of Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT), said the shops with even numbers in their addresses will open on Monday, Wednesday and Friday. “Similarly, the shops with odd numbers will be opened on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. On Sunday, it is mandatory for all shops to carry out thorough sanitisation, and will be closed to customers,” he said.He said shopkeepers have agreed to follow the new regulations. “Everyone from our fraternity is hopeful that with recommencement of business activities, the markets will be ‘atma nirbhar (self-reliant)’. They have also been asked to give an undertaking in this regard, to the police stations concerned,” Jain said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-admin-introduces-odd-even-system-for-opening-shops/story-jDaylB69N2rZLxJ9tY7FMI.html
20-05-2020||City||Revised guidelines help Gzb authorities discharge 55 patients in three days||The district health department officials Wednesday said that they have been able to discharge 55 patients afflicted with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the past three days (since Sunday).According to them, the district on Wednesday recorded five more Covid-19 cases, taking the total number of cases to 196.“Five positive cases were reported on Wednesday, while six patients were discharged. With this, the total number of active cases in the district is 33, with 161 out of 196 discharged so far. Two of the five cases are from Khoda Colony while three are from sectors 1, 3 and 15 at Vasundhara,” Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, said.The health department officials confirmed that the tally of discharged patients stood at 161, against the number of total cases, which stood at 196 till Wednesday. A closer look revealed that the number of discharges has increased due to the revised discharge guidelines received by the district health department from the state officials.According to the district officials, a Covid-19 patient earlier needed two successive negative reports to be discharged from the hospital. This, they said, was time-consuming, and the lag in obtaining test results further delayed their discharge.“As per the revised discharge guidelines, we are now discharging asymptomatic patients if their first report is negative. Patients with mild/moderate or severe Covid-19 symptoms such as fever, cough, etc. are also getting discharged after a single negative report. However, such patients must remain asymptomatic for three consecutive days before they can be discharged,” Dr Gupta said.He said that discharged patients are now quarantined at home for seven days as against 14 days as per earlier norms.“Most positive cases in Ghaziabad are showing mild symptoms. So as per revised guidelines, we have been able to discharge about 55 patients in the last three days. Therefore, the number of patients being discharged is on the higher side in our district. Otherwise, we were discharging only 50% of the cases. Earlier, when we were required to get two successive negative reports, we had to face a delay of about six days between receiving the results of both the tests,” the CMO added.He added that some samples are now also sent to the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Delhi, and test reports are received within 15 to 16 hours.In another move, the health department has also been directed to chalk out a list of containment zones as well as red zones within the Ghaziabad district.“State officials have asked us whether some areas need to be demarcated as containment zones or red zones. So, we are now compiling a list of certain areas where cases are clustered and need to be contained for 14 or more days. In case no more cases are reported from these areas, they will be removed from the list of containment or red zones. The entire district is already classified as an orange zone as per the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare,” Dr Gupta added.Officials said they have started compiling a list of such areas. Under the guidelines released for Lockdown 4.0, several activities are not allowed in containment zones.“The potential areas that we can think of are parts of Khoda, Loni, Vasundhara, Jhandapur, Islam Nagar and Dasna Gate among others. Once finalised, the list will be sent to the UP officials,” Dr Gupta added.According to the latest list available with the health department, Ghaziabad has 50 different areas listed under Category 1 and 18 areas listed under Category 2 of containment zones.Category 1 areas are defined as those which have reported just one case (they have a perimeter of about 400 metres) and Category 2 areas are defines as those with more than one positive case (they have a perimeter of one kilometre).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/revised-guidelines-help-gzb-authorities-discharge-55-patients-in-three-days/story-FGxFjripiIiOuqB9ODLmVK.html
20-05-2020||City||70 trains bring 1.12 lakh migrants in a day in Bihar||PATNAA record 1.12 lakh migrant workers arrived in different parts of Bihar by 70 Shramik Special trains on Wednesday even as the state enters a challenging phase to quarantine them in the wake of Covid cases spreading to all 38 districts now.This is the single largest flow of migrants in a day.Government sources said this is just the beginning as for the next four days, more than a lakh migrant workers will return to the state, the highest (1.23 lakh) expected on May 21. “A record 77 Shramik special trains will run on Thursday,” said a government official.“Over the next nine days, 574 more trains with close to 9.18 lakh people will be reaching the state. Till May 19, about 6.10 lakh migrants/people had reached state through 427 special / Shramik Special trains and buses. This means that Bihar, by May-end, would will received 15.28 lakh migrants/people,” IPRD secretary Anupam Kumar said. “This is the biggest ever evacuation drive,” said an official.Officials of East Central Railway, of which Bihar is a major part, say that though the arrival of migrants is less than the average footfall of passenger per day, it is quite huge.“Before the lockdown started, on March 23, a total of approximately 7.76 lakh passengers travelled by 165 pairs of mail/express trains either originating or passing through Bihar. Similarly 388 passenger trains also of which 108 run in Bihar alone,” said chief public relation officer (CPRO), ECR, Rajesh Kumar.In addition to this, the state government is also running 4,500 buses to ferry migrants from one destination to other.Railway sources said that most of these trains are running to full capacity. “Earlier, of the 72 berths sleeper coaches 54 passengers were travelling as we were not allowing use of middle coaches. Similarly, in LHB coaches, only 60 passengers were allowed in an 80 berth coaches. But now seats are being utilized,” said the CPRO, raising questions over social distancing.An alarmed Bihar government is gearing up to face the rising number of cases of Covid-19 in the state, especially after trainloads of mostly asymptomatic migrant labourers came back and many of them tested positive. The state government has set up 7,840 block quarantine centres in which 5.45 lakh migrants are staying, said the IPRD secretary. “In addition to this, 76,500 people are also living in 151 disaster relief centres being run by disaster management department,” he said.Chief minister Nitish Kumar has already directed officials to do random testing in districts and strengthen isolation wards at the block level with more beds and facilities, as the number is set to grow.The focus has now shifted to the panchayat and block levels, as it is where the migrants will spend their mandatory 14 days at the isolation centres.Date Trains No of passengersMay 20 70 1.12 lakhMay 21 77 1.23 lakhMay 22 70 1.12 lakhMay 23 74 1.18 lakhMay 24 68 1.08 lakhMay 25 54 86,400May 26 52 83,200May 27 47 75,200May 28 62 99,200||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/70-trains-brings-1-12-lakh-migrants-in-a-day-in-bihar/story-WgolrUwvrlCCtoA8t8KcOI.html
20-05-2020||City||GB Nagar admin clarifies guidelines as residents raise concerns||Noida: The Gautam Budh Nagar administration on Wednesday afternoon released clarifications to the guidelines issued by it for the fourth phase of the lockdown.The move comes soon after some residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) complained that certain key issues like movement of domestic helps and maintenance staff have not been addressed. The district administration had released fresh guidelines on Wednesday morning.The guidelines have allowed the public transport and street vendors and e-commerce to operate. Besides, markets and industries can resume their operations.The clarifications released later say that any activity which is not prohibited is treated as permitted and service personnel such as maids, drivers and electricians are allowed, except for any movement in or out of containment zones and within them. “Consent of both the house resident and service personnel is must. RWAs can only impose restrictions to the extent of enforcing guidelines like wearing masks or sanitisation, etc. RWAs can set up internal system to regulate number of people entering the lift or social distancing and they have to balance community hygiene with convenience of individual residents,” said an order from the district administration.During the third phase of the lockdown, the district administration had asked the local RWAs to come up with solutions to problems like entry of domestic helps or maintenance staff in consensus with the residents. “In the absence of clear guidelines, it becomes a problem for the RWAs. If we come up with any decision without administrative backing, there is a huge risk of opposition from the residents,” said KK Jain, secretary general, Federation of Noida Residents’ Welfare Associations.The fresh guidelines also prohibit cross border travel to Delhi. However, residents are facing problems because of it as several people have to travel from Noida to Delhi or vice versa for professional commitments.“More than that, sometimes close relatives have to see each other and businesses have to run. Residential bodies are in no position to take all decisions specially if there is no backing from the administration,” said Colonel (retired) Shashi Vaid, chairman, Arun Vihar RWA.A senior police officials said that in case of RWAs do not act in accordance with administration guidelines and interest of the residents, action can be taken against them though people are advised to sort out internal matters amicably.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gb-nagar-admin-clarifies-guidelines-as-residents-raise-concerns/story-IPt4i8X4OkFXv4iHzARFxM.html
20-05-2020||Noida||GB Nagar admin allows maids, drivers and service personnel in societies||The Gautam Budh Nagar administration on Wednesday released clarifications to the guidelines issued by it for the fourth phase of the Covid-19 lockdown.The move comes soon after some residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) complained that certain key issues like movement of domestic helps and maintenance staff have not been addressed.The district administration had released fresh guidelines on Wednesday morning.The guidelines have allowed the public transport and street vendors and e-commerce to operate. Besides, markets and industries can resume their operations.The clarifications released later say that any activity which is not prohibited is treated as permitted and service personnel such as maids, drivers and electricians are allowed, except for any movement in or out of containment zones and within them.“Consent of both the house resident and service personnel is must. RWAs can only impose restrictions to the extent of enforcing guidelines like wearing masks or sanitisation, etc. RWAs can set up internal system to regulate number of people entering the lift or social distancing and they have to balance community hygiene with convenience of individual residents,” said an order from the district administration.During the third phase of the lockdown, the district administration had asked the local RWAs to come up with solutions to problems like entry of domestic helps or maintenance staff in consensus with the residents.“In the absence of clear guidelines, it becomes a problem for the RWAs. If we come up with any decision without administrative backing, there is a huge risk of opposition from the residents,” said KK Jain, secretary general, Federation of Noida Residents’ Welfare Associations.The fresh guidelines also prohibit cross border travel to Delhi. However, residents are facing problems because of it as several people have to travel from Noida to Delhi or vice versa for professional commitments.“More than that, sometimes close relatives have to see each other and businesses have to run. Residential bodies are in no position to take all decisions specially if there is no backing from the administration,” said Colonel (retired) Shashi Vaid, chairman, Arun Vihar RWA.A senior police officials said that in case of RWAs do not act in accordance with administration guidelines and interest of the residents, action can be taken against them though people are advised to sort out internal matters amicably.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gb-nagar-admin-allows-maids-drivers-and-service-personnel-in-societies/story-TDqSwUu2jLJsAHHzwe44FN.html
20-05-2020||Delhi||First time since May 4, two South Delhi areas sealed||The Delhi government has sealed two more areas — parts of F block in Dakshinpuri and a lane in Zamrudpur village near Greater Kailash — in south Delhi as containment zones, taking the total of such zones to 69, senior officials said on Wednesday. An official said that three more containment zones are likely to be notified by Thursday.District magistrate (south), BM Mishra, said, “These areas were sealed on Tuesday after cluster cases were recorded.”These are the first and second additions to the list of containment zones since May 4, when the third phase of the lockdown started with a few relaxations.Despite the number of Covid-19 cases increasing from 4,549 on May 4 to 10,554 on May 19, when the orders pertaining to the two containment zones were issued by the district administration, containment measures were scaled down in at least 25 sealed zones, as per government records.On Tuesday, Delhi’s health secretary, Padmini Singla, sent letters to all district magistrates, red-flagging the fact that the number of containment zones was going down even as Covid-19 cases in the city continued to rise exponentially.An order issued by Singla on Tuesday directed the district magistrates to reconsider fresh assessment of Covid-19 cases in their revenue districts and create containment zones “as per guidelines” of the Union health ministry, if needed.The Delhi government on Wednesday directed all district health officials to come up with a plan on categorising wards within the 11 revenue districts as red, orange and green, a senior official in the health department said on Wednesday. The official said the exercise is aimed at helping the government on re-assessment of restrictions and relaxations in the light of spike in the number of Covid-19 cases in the last two weeks.On Wednesday, the north district administration also demarcated a larger buffer area around the existing containment zone in Jahangirpuri, senior government officials said.The current relaxations in the fourth phase of the lockdown are not applicable to the containment zones.The Delhi government on Wednesday directed all district health officials to come up with a plan on categorising wards within the 11 revenue districts as Red, Orange and Green, a senior official in the health department said on Wednesday.The official further said, the exercise is aimed at helping the government on re-assessment of restrictions and relaxations in the light of spike in the number of Covid-19 cases in the last two weeks.Currently, the central government under its new guidelines issued on May 17 for the fourth phase of the ongoing nationwide lockdown allows states to demarcate Red, Orange and Green zones on their own.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/two-areas-sealed-in-a-first-since-may-4/story-QavDTFNC3j94ibY33GJ5zH.html
20-05-2020||City||Waiting for flight resumption to return to Italy, says Punjab’s first Covid patient||“I am waiting for the announcement on the resumption of international flights so that I could return to Italy to restart working there,” says Gurdeep Singh, 44, of Hoshiarpur district’s Khanoor village who was Punjab’s first person to have tested positive for the coronavirus.Gurdeep, who along with his wife and 14-year-old son landed in India on March 4, has been following self-quarantine norms on his own volition even as he was cured of the infection on March 26 at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Amritsar.The 44-year-old says, “I have been maintaining a healthy diet to keep my immune system strong. At 8am daily, I drive to the fields carrying breakfast for my brother, Ashok Kumar, and labourers who are preparing the land for sowing paddy. I don’t touch the food as one of my family members puts it on the backseat of the car.”“I preferred not to meet my relatives, friends or the villagers to avoid any complication. I even didn’t go to the village gurdwara after being cured. I don’t want to get infected by the virus again,” says Gurdeep who worked in a packaging unit in Italy where he migrated in 2008.Gurdeep says he sees his brother and the labourers working in the fields from a distance and he also does some works like cutting grass.He returns home at 2pm and takes rest in his room. “In the evening, I browse the internet to learn more about precautions on how to save oneself from the virus. My friends also keep sending me updates from Italy,” he says.Besides, he has been checking updates on the pandemic situation in Italy. “Ultimately, I have to find out what I will do there as I have nothing much to do in India,” he adds.Whether he faced any social stigma after testing positive, he says, “On a personal note, I didn’t face such thing. Villagers greet me well when I go to or come back from the fields. My friends acknowledge me with a smile and warmth when I wave at them from my car,” he claims.Gurdeep says it was a really difficult time for him in Italy where the pandemic situation was worse. “It’s a disease that can infect anyone. We should defeat it with positivity and a good food,” he maintains.“I am shocked to see on television heavy rush of people in the markets. People should understand the gravity of the pandemic. We should religiously follow the social-distancing norms and other precautions,” he cautions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/waiting-for-flight-resumption-to-return-to-italy-says-punjab-s-first-covid-patient/story-WaFNtLGMRTahuKr2DwDjBO.html
20-05-2020||Lucknow||UP calls buses unfit, Priyanka says will ‘send them back’||With Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma asserting that the state government cannot play with the lives of migrant labourers by allowing ‘unfit’ buses to transport them, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra responded by saying “we will send them back” from UP’s borders with Rajasthan on Wednesday “if you don’t want to use them.”Sharma called the Congress list of buses fake, a charge that another senior UP minister had made on Tuesday.Sharma also said, “How can we take theses private buses mentioned in the Congress list? It’s fake, 460 on the list do not have requisite fitness. How can we deploy them? The state government cannot play with the lives of migrant labourers by using unfit buses. The state government is duty bound to ensure a safe journey to the migrant workers.”For its part, the Congress claimed about 900 buses had remained stranded on the border for 24 hours. The decision to send the buses back appears to have ended the party’s faceoff with the state government over offering 1,000 buses to carry migrant labourers back to their homes.In her address on the social media, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said, “If you don’t want to use them, it doesn’t matter. We will send them back. We had sent them back three days ago too. We will continue to help the migrant labourers and other people affected by the lockdown enforced following the pandemic. It doesn’t matter whether these are our buses or yours. We only wanted to help to serve the people.”“I want to request the chief minister our buses are there on the borders till 4pm. Do permit us to run these buses to help the migrants,” said Priyanka before withdrawal of the buses.“We will complete 24 hours at 4pm. Use them, if you want to. If you want to put on BJP flags or BJP stickers on them, do so. If you want to claim these are your buses do so. But allow these buses to run. How long we will continue to indulge in political issues?” she said.On the state government’s objections to fitness of some of the buses, Priyanka said, “We don’t want to raise any questions to the state government. If there are any numbers that have been found incorrect, we can give them a new list.”She, however, said the time wasted in pointing fingers at the Congress list could have been used in using the buses to transport migrant workers.“I want to say that on May 16-17, we made 500 buses available on the Ghaziabad borders. If these buses had been allowed to run, about 20,000 persons could have reached their homes. On Tuesday, we provided 900 buses. These included about 500 buses on the UP-Rajasthan borders and more than 300 buses remained present on the Delhi-Ghaziabad borders. About 36,000 migrant workers would have reached their home on Tuesday if these buses had been allowed to run. Another 36,000 would have reached their home safe on Wednesday. By now, 92,000 migrant labourers would have been transported… But we continued to indulge in political issues,” she said.“I want to tell our migrant brothers and sisters that each and every worker and leader of the Congress is with you. You will find our workers in every district on the way to provide food and water or look into other problems of yours. We will continue to help you with all our capability in this hour of crisis,” she added.Earlier in the day, UP deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma said the videos of buses being circulated by the Congress showed that the buses belonged to the Rajasthan government’s road transport corporation. “How can a political party use government buses?” he asked.“Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot did not take care of students of Kota. (UP) Chief minister Yogi Adityanath deployed buses to bring them back from Rajasthan… The Rajasthan chief minister even appreciated UP government’s move,” said Sharma, while demanding that the Congress should tender an unconditional apology for committing “fraud” on the issue of providing buses.Late Tuesday evening, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s private secretary Sandip Singh had sent another letter to additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi.In the letter (sent via email), Sandip Singh said, “Police misbehaved with Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) president Ajay Kumar Lallu and arrested him. We made it clear in our letters that our main objective is to help the migrant labourers. We remained on the UP border with all the buses on Tuesday. But we did not get any response from you. With this letter (sent on email) we want to inform you that we are still there and will remain till 4pm on Wednesday.”Senior UP Congress leader Pankaj Malik said, “We continued to wait at DND flyover with about 500 buses on Wednesday. Other buses remained at UP’s border with Rajasthan. We have shifted our buses from the Delhi border as the police have begun seizure of the vehicles. We want to help the migrant labourers. They may have found a problem with some of the buses mentioned in the Congress list. But the state government could have easily allowed the remaining buses to carry the migrant labourers.”WHAT UP GOVERNMENT CLAIMSOver 1000 Shramik Special trains carrying 16 lakh migrant labourers have arrived.27,000 buses have been deployed to carry the migrant labourers. These include 12,000 UPSRTC buses and 15,000 buses kept at the disposal of district magistrates (200 in 75 districts).The Congress wasted the government’s precious time by giving a fake list. The UP government is duty bound to ensure safety of migrant workers.WHAT CONGRESS CLAIMSWe gave a list of 1,000 buses and 900 of them remained stranded on the UP-Rajasthan and UP-Delhi borders.It doesn’t matter. The state government can use BJP flags or stickersUP government has wasted precious time. If the state government had used these buses, 92,000 migrant labourers would have been transported in the past two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-calls-buses-unfit-priyanka-says-will-send-them-back/story-M1J7V6rkMbi6W0XmM3YL3N.html
20-05-2020||City||Police close 32 bank branches with inadequate security in Amritsar||A day after three unidentified armed men looted Rs 10.9 lakh from a branch of IndusInd Bank at Sohian Kalan village in Majitha sub-division, the rural district police on Wednesday shutdown 32 branches of a number of banks. The police said these branches did not follow the security norms as prescribed by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). According to a police release, the banks closed were two branches of the Axis Bank; two of the National Bank; ten branches of the Punjab National Bank; six branches of the Cooperative Bank; seven of the HDFC Bank; one of the ICICI Bank; one of the Union Bank; one of the IDBI Bank and two of the IndusInd Bank. SSP rural Vikramjit Singh Duggal said, “These branches were not following the guidelines of the RBI. Most of the branches were running in small rooms and some of them had no guard.” He added no bank branch in rural district would be allowed to run if it did not follow prescribed security norms. Majitha DSP Jogeshwar Singh Goraya said the branch had five employees, but only two were present at the time of the incident. “There was no customer in the bank when the robbery took place. The bank neither had a guard nor CCTVs. This is against RBI guidelines,” the DSP added. Punjab National Bank lead district manager Pritpal Singh said, “We have informed out senior authorities about the issue.” He added that he did not know if branches of other banks had also been closed as well. Strap/BlurbPolice action came a day after Rs 11 lakh dacoity at a private bank branch in a village; branches ordered to shutdown did not have security as per RBI norms, say police||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-close-32-bank-branches-with-inadequate-security-in-amritsar/story-C0fvghk3JPmBCXQMy8xnyK.html
20-05-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand reports 11 Covid-19 positive cases, tally rises to 122||Eleven new Covid-19 cases were detected in Uttarakhand including in districts like Haridwar, recently found to be Covid-free, taking the state tally to 122 on Wednesday.A bulletin released by the state health department in the evening mentioned that two new cases were reported from Uttarkashi and Tehri Garhwal district from the AIIMS Rishikesh lab. Both persons have a travel history from Mumbai. A 25-year-old man who tested positive from Tehri Garhwal is the first case for the district. A 29-year-old man tested positive from Uttarkashi district. With these two new cases over 45 migrants have tested positive for Covid-19 in Uttarakhand.Earlier in the day a health bulletin released in the afternoon mentioned two Covid-19 positive cases were detected in Haridwar and Uttarkashi on Tuesday. The two had travelled to disease hotspots of Mumbai and Delhi respectively.According to the chief medical officer of Haridwar, Dr. Saroj Naithani, a medical team is putting the relatives and others who came in contact with the positive person in quarantine and taking their samples for testing.“After a month’s gap, a Covid-19 case has been confirmed in the district and we are tracing the travel history as well as primary contacts. All the migrants arriving in the district are being randomly sampled, with senior citizens and children being tested mandatorily,” Dr Saroj Naithani said.Since Wednesday morning, seven positive cases were detected from Almora, Nainital and Udham Singh Nagar.As per the VRDL Haldwani lab report, two patients from Nainital, a 29-year-old female, who lives in the former containment zone of Banbhulpura and a 21-year-old male, who recently returned from Delhi, tested positive. A 19-year-old man from Civil Hospital in Ranikhet, Almora also tested positive.From Udham Singh Nagar, four new cases, including two 21-year-old males from a health center in Jaspur, a 35-year-old man from Kichha and a 29-year-old man from Rudrapur, tested positive.With 22 active cases, Udham Singh Nagar has most cases in the state, followed by 17 in Dehradun and 15 in Nainital. The state has a total of 69 active cases and has seen 53 successful recoveries so far.The doubling rate of cases stands at 10.3 days in Uttarakhand as of Wednesday with 44.17% total recoveries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-reports-11-covid-19-positive-cases-tally-rises-to-122/story-U1BqqcHTW7zzlM6XAT6fBI.html
20-05-2020||Lucknow||Civil defence volunteers at forefront in fight against corona in Prayagraj||A large number of civil defence volunteers, acting as corona warriors, are rendering spirited and selfless service in fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. The volunteers are not only helping cops in implementation of lockdown but are also raising awareness among people to fight the pandemic.Earlier too, civil defence volunteers had played important roles not only during Kumbh but had also assisted cops in maintaining law and order on different occasions in Prayagraj. Soon after the lockdown was announced, the civil defence volunteers were assigned their duties under their respective divisions.The volunteers were not only deployed at different checkpoints in the city but also at quarantine centers and other places, said deputy chief warden of civil defence in Prayagraj Sadiq Husain Siddiqui.At present, over 500 civil defence volunteers including around 50 women are extending cooperation to the administration at different checkpoints and quarantine centers in Prayagraj city which is divided in five divisions headed by as many divisional commandants. “Besides their duties at checkpoints, our volunteers are also continuously engaged in raising awareness to remain safe from the pandemic in different localities of the city including in densely populated areas where people are less aware or are reluctant to follow guidelines issued by the government,” Siddiqui further said.Divisional commandant of Naini area Rama Singh said facing all odds and threats, civil defence volunteers were discharging their duties with enthusiasm while coordinating with local policemen and administrative officials. Civil defence volunteers played an important role in enforcing lockdown in Lukarganj area where people were scared after death of a coronavirus patient, said divisional commandant of Lukarganj area Rajeev Bhanot. The volunteers even provided eatables to poor and needy and helped cops in community policing for better implementation of guidelines during the lockdown, Bhanot further said.Civil Defence volunteers were recently felicitated by the administration for their distinguished services, informed deputy chief warden Sadiq Husain Siddiqui.“Civil defence volunteers have been playing an important role on different occasions and have helped in the maintenance of public order,” ADG Zone Prayagraj Prem Prakash said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/civil-defence-volunteers-at-forefront-in-fight-against-corona-in-prayagraj/story-3ndLYFhexZzXsaVdsZFaxH.html
20-05-2020||Pune||14 deaths reported in a day, highest in 24 hours, death toll reaches 221 in Pune city||Fourteen deaths related to Covid-19 were reported from the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Wednesday, reportedly one of the highest 24-hour death tolls in the city.A total of 221 Covid-19 fatalities have been recorded in Pune.Of the 14 deaths, eight are from Sassoon hospital and one from the rural area.Also, 152 fresh positive cases were identified on Wednesday, which takes the city’s progressive positive case count to 3,899. A total of 113 patients were discharged after being declared Covid-19-free on Wednesday, which takes the discharged count to 2,023.One-hundred-and-sixty-five patients are currently on ventilators in various hospitals in the city. The deaths include a 69-year-old male from Kalyani nagar who was admitted on May 18 and expired on May 18, at 6.45pm. The swab report was awaited and came back Covid-19-+ positive on May 19.A 60-year-old male from Shivaji market, Camp, who was symptomatic since May 4, expired on May 19.A 37-year-old from Kharadi, with a history of convulsions and seizures from Hadapsar, was declared dead on May 19.A 74-year-old male from Mangalwar peth expired on May 19.A 61-year-old male from Bhimpura, Camp, was declared dead on May 19.A 50-year-old female from Parvati was declared dead on May 20.A 57-year-old-male was declared dead on May 20.An 80-year-old male from Tadiwala road was declared dead on May 20.The other deaths include a 50-year-old male from Mahatma Phule peth; a 71-year-old male from Yerawada; A 74-year-old male from Janata Vasahat, Paravati; a 44-year-old male from Gultekdi; a 76-year-old female from Kothrud; and a 69- year-old female from rural Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/14-deaths-reported-in-a-day-highest-in-24-hours-death-toll-reaches-221-in-pune-city/story-BwBoUSKK9Yr8NNO5IBqq9J.html
20-05-2020||Lucknow||UP: Doctor on Covid duty beaten up, told to vacate house by landlord||Days after the Uttar Pradesh government promulgated an ordinance to protect frontline corona warriors, a doctor in Kotwali area of Deoria district was accused of spreading infection, beaten up and forced to vacate the rented accommodation by his landlord.According to police, Dr Rajiv Ranjan is quarantine center in-charge at the district hospital and lives in the house of one Dilip Paswan on rent in Kotwali area.On Tuesday evening, the owner, along with husband of ward corporator Nanhe Nishad and three others, asked him to vacate the house.They said there is fear of spreading of Covid-19 infection in the area because of his presence.When the doctor tried to reason out with them, he was beaten up, said the police complaint.Police have registered case against five persons and arrested Dilip and Nanhe Nishad.“The house owner Dilip and corporator’s husband Nanhe have been arrested. Three others are on the run,” said Sri Pati Mishra, SP, Deoria.They have been booked under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (Intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), 506 (criminal intimidation), 333 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt to deter public servant from duty), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 51B (Disaster Management Act) and under amended Epidemic Act, 1897, said the police.On May 6, the state government had passed a draft ordinance allowing provision for fine of up to Rs 5 lakh and jail term of up to seven years as it amended the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, and ensured stricter punishment for those assaulting corona warriors, including doctors, paramedical staffs, police personnel and sanitary workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-doctor-on-covid-duty-beaten-up-told-to-vacate-house-by-landlord/story-HZeRclrG3QfZMHyDyCeRpK.html
20-05-2020||City||Tyre factory employee’s son, RPF jawan test +ve, Ludhiana’s tally now at 177||Two fresh cases were detected in Ludhiana on Wednesday. While one is a 27-year-old man, who is the son of 63-year-old the tyre factory unit manager who had earlier tested positive for Covid-19, the other is a 30-year-old railway protection force (RPF) personnel who came from Delhi. As Punjab is not including non-residents of the state its tally, only the 27-year-old man’s case has been added to the district tally, which now stands at 177. The 27-year-old’s father was found to be infected on May 7, while his mother and youngster brother tested positive the next day. So far, 19 persons having connection with the tyre factory, which includes 10 of it employees, have tested positive for the virus.Sharing details about the fresh cases, civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the RPF jawan had tested negative on May 11, but he was symptomatic. “So we took another sample, which came out positive today. He is now in the isolation ward of the civil hospital,” stated Dr Bagga. As of now, the number of infected RPF men stands at 48. Besides, two railway protection special force men are also Covid positive. Meanwhile, the health department is still groping in the dark to locate the two men, aged 18 and 22, who had visited the flu corner of the civil hospital four days ago. After they tested positive, the health staff tried contacting them but found that their details, including phone numbers, were incorrect. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the men had stated that they lived in Prem Vihar Street No 1 and Shahi Bagh Colony Street No 11. He said that efforts were on to locate them.Dr Bagga said till date, a total of 5,214 samples have been tested, out of which reports of 4,578 came out negative. Of the total 177 positive cases in the district, 125 have been cured and seven have died. There are currently 45 active cases in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tyre-factory-employee-s-son-rpf-jawan-test-ve-ludhiana-s-tally-now-at-177/story-SqUcte5YRMq3gd8bmj8cZK.html
20-05-2020||Delhi||DDA to open select sports facilities from May 21||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) on Wednesday decided to reopen its sports complexes and golf courses across the city from May 21 onwards following the relaxations allowed under the fourth phase of the ongoing nationwide lockdown. The sports facilities will be opened with restrictions and in compliance with social distancing norms to control the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic, the authority said in a statement.“As per the laid down protocol, persons above 65 years of age, children below 10 years of age and persons with co-morbid conditions and those suffering from chronic diseases will be prohibited entry to the sports complexes and golf courses,” it said.The facilities that will be thrown open from Thursday for members include tennis, badminton, table tennis, golf driving range, shooting range, archery, walking and the jogging tracks.It is mandatory for members to download the Aarogya Setu App and show it at the entry gate. All others gates will be locked. Also, they are required to carry their own equipment, accessories, drinking water, towels, hand sanitiser, face masks and gloves. Facilities such as lockers, shower, change room and coaches will not be available, the statement said. The sports complexes will open from 8am to 6pm daily. Protocol have been laid down for different activities --- singles only for tennis, badminton and table tennis; alternate courts/bays to be opened for badminton; archers to keep a minimum distance of six metres; and only 50 members will be allowed on walking/jogging tracks at a time.“Sports complexes will allot slots for members with timings for each facility. Only those members who have been allotted booking tokens will be allowed into the sports complex,” it said.At complexes where online booking is available, members will book slots online and tokens will be allotted by the complex management. However, sports complexes that do not have online booking systems in place, temporary receptions will be set up at the main entrance gate of the complex sto issue tokens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/dda-to-open-select-sports-facilities-from-may-21/story-IRSUhB33YvnCKXrfowlP3H.html
20-05-2020||Mumbai||2 arrested for hunting pangolin inside Pench Tiger Reserve||Two persons, including the chairman of a village development committee, were arrested for hunting pangolin, a schedule 1 species under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, inside the Pench Tiger Reserve (PTR) on Tuesday. According to forest officials, the incident took place in the Kirangisarra area towards the eastern end of PTR where the two accused were caught cooking the dead animal in a pot.The two accused, Radheshyam Ahake and Kavadu Dhurve, were arrested by the forest department. “It is shocking that Ahake, being the chairman of the village development committee, is involved in such practices. These offenders are under the impression that during the lockdown, forest patrolling staff is not functional but it is quite the opposite,” said Ravikiran Govekar, field director, PTR.“The duo was trying to cook the animal to remove its scales, a precious commodity in the illegal wildlife market. They have been charged under relevant sections of the Indian Forest Act, 1927, and the Wildlife Conservation Act, 1972.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2-arrested-for-hunting-pangolin-inside-pench-tiger-reserve/story-vb1JATS5YmzlCO7MSBBj4H.html
20-05-2020||Noida||Noida follows Delhi, adopts odd-even system for opening shops||The Gautam Budh Nagar district administration took a leaf out of Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s book as it issued an advisory on opening markets in the different localities and said shops will have to follow an odd-even system to open like the one in the national capital.According to the advisory issued by district magistrate Suhas LY, all shopkeepers will have to follow safety norms, to stop any further spread of the Covid-19.Additional commissioner of commercial tax (Noida division) Vinay Kumar said according to the guidelines of the ministry of home affairs (MHA) and the state government, all shops in rural and urban areas, except those in containment zones, have been given the permission to operate.“Since maintaining social distancing is a must in a pandemic situation, the shopkeepers of different areas have been asked to follow the odd-even scheme strictly. It will not only reduce crowding in markets, but will also help in maintaining social distancing,” he said.The odd-even scheme for shops follows the same principle of the road rationing scheme whereby shops with even numbers will open on Monday, Wednesday and Friday and odd-numbered ones will open on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. This will ensure that on any given day, only half the shops in a market will remain open.Shops in Delhi are currently following this scheme.Kumar said it has been made mandatory for all the shopkeepers and staff, to use masks, gloves, hand-wash and sanitisers.“They have also been asked not to entertain any customer who comes to their shops without masks. None of the shops, except those selling essential commodities, will remain open after 7pm,” he said.Sushil Kumar Jain, the convener of Delhi-NCR chapter of Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT), said the shops with even numbers in their addresses will open on Monday, Wednesday and Friday. “Similarly, the shops with odd numbers will be opened on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. On Sunday, it is mandatory for all shops to carry out thorough sanitisation, and will be closed to customers,” he said.He said shopkeepers have agreed to follow the new regulations. “Everyone from our fraternity is hopeful that with recommencement of business activities, the markets will be ‘atma nirbhar (self-reliant)’. They have also been asked to give an undertaking in this regard, to the police stations concerned,” Jain said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-follows-delhi-adopts-odd-even-system-for-opening-shops/story-nPRfl0UgvqTEsM3ud0IpZL.html
20-05-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan spent Rs 2.69 crore on sending migrants home||The Rajasthan government has spent Rs 2.69 crore on about 66,000 migrant workers to their home towns since May 1 when the first train left for Patna with 1,187 labourers, said a state government report on Wednesday.According to the railways guidelines, state governments have to bear 15% of the cost of travel; the railways bears the remaining. As many as 67 trains have gone from different railway stations of Rajasthan until Tuesday evening, the report said. This included 49 for labourers, 16 for students from Kota and three from pilgrims.Fare for trains carrying students were paid by the respective state governments. Fourteen of the 16 trains with students went to Bihar and the remaining two to Jharkhand. Many students returned home by buses later.Officials in charge of movement of migrants, students and pilgrims from and to Rajasthan said 86,000 people have come in by trains and 40,000 travelled out on board 31 outbound trains. “23 more trains are scheduled between May 20 and 27; 16 of them will go to Bihar, 3 to UP, 2 to Jharkhand and one each to Kerala and West Bengal,” they said requesting anonymity.Seven trains each left on Tuesday and Wednesday. Fare of these trains borne by the state government is not included in the Rs 2.69 crore figure. Each of these 14 trains carried 1,400 labourers.Officials said 22.70 lakh people have registered on the state government’s portal for travel permissions – 10.55 lakh from going out of Rajasthan and 12.15 lakh for returning to the state. About 640,000 people have returned to the state from different states, mostly from Gujarat. The number of people who travelled out of Rajasthan is 179,000, most of them to Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-spent-rs-2-69-crore-on-sending-migrants-home/story-g7rhNX0YrwKTcALyQ8A5AO.html
20-05-2020||City||Residential societies set guidelines for domestic help||PUNE Lack of clarity from Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on maids has left many residential societies to set their own rules and regulations.Santosh Krishna, a resident of Wagholi, said, “I think the civic body has left the decision to housing societies to allow domestic helpers to resume work. A formal order from resident welfare associations or local governing body would have made things clear.”“We are taking a very protective approach because of the virus spread and will take a call later,” said Krishna.Several housing societies held online meetings to draft policies regarding maids and other domestic helpers. “At Sahil Sarene, we are also keeping PMC in the loop via online,” said Ameya Karambelkar a resident of Baner.While some felt that the onus of safety of its residents lies with the management, but lack of clarity on the issue is making it difficult to take a decision. “There are genuine requests for maids from senior citizens, patients, pregnant women, nursing mothers and working women. So, clarity from authorities on the issue in a must,” said Mehzabin Saiyed, secretary, Nyati Empire, Kharadi.“The domestic helpers in our society are not coming as of now. While some members of the society want to call back their maids, others are against because of health reasons” said Nitin Memane, a resident of Gera Emerald City North, Kharadi, adding that members are paying maids at least half salary.In Balewadi, some societies are collecting personal details of maids and ensuring that they belong from green zone. Other criteria include the helpers should either walk to work or use their personal vehicle (no public transport), should have stayed in Pune address for 15 days and should not be unwell.“We have advised people to start with one domestic helper, but many members are hesitant to call them,” said Sangeeta Baheti, a resident of Balewadi.Nandan Prospera, a residential society in Baner, has allowed a few domestic helpers to resume work from June 1, but only to houses that genuinely need their services. The housing committee has made resident employers responsible for ensuring that the maids follow all preventive criteria set by the government. The domestic helps will be issued an ID card only after the health safety measures are met.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/residential-societies-set-guidelines-for-domestic-help/story-TzaK0TkH2FCtT2lyx43FXI.html
20-05-2020||City||Govt arranges outward movement of 17,583 stranded in J&K||The government has transported over 78,902 residents of J&K who were stranded outside the UT due to lockdown, back to their hometowns through covid special trains, buses and flights.Likewise, the first train carrying 1,184 outbound migrant workers left from Katra for Chhatarpur in MP. The outward movement for 16,399 people stranded in Lakhanpur has been done till date.So far, the government has evacuated 61,354 residents of J&K stranded in other states and UTs through Lakhanpur, besides bringing back about 17,047 people through special trains at Jammu and Udhampur railway stations. Also, 501 passengers including students were brought back through special flights.Around 1,862 stranded passengers had entered through Lakhanpur between May 19 and 20. On Wednesday, 961 passengers reached Jammu railway station in a covid special AC train. About 1,861 passengers have reached Udhampur railway station from Bengaluru, Habibganj and Bholapur in three special trains.So far, seven trains have reached Jammu with a total of 6,469 stranded passengers belonging to different districts while 10,578 passengers have reached Udhampur in 13 special trains.A special train carrying about 1,100 passengers from Ahmedabad is expected to reach Udhampur.As per official communiqué, of the 61,354 returnees evacuated through Lakhanpur by Wednesday morning, 13,694 are from Punjab, 19,775 from Himachal Pradesh, 21 from Andhra Pradesh, 6,051 from Delhi, 1,297 from Gujarat, 2,403 from Rajasthan, 3,588 from Haryana, 110 from Chhattisgarh, 3,117 from Uttarakhand, 666 from Maharashtra, 3,996 from Uttar Pradesh, 42 from Odisha, 244 from Assam, 917 from Madhya Pradesh, 88 from Dehradun, 946 from Chandigarh, 666 from Telangana, 42 from Karnataka, 56 from Tamil Nadu, 239 from Bihar, 120 from West Bengal, 26 from Jharkhand, three from Nepal and 3,247 from other states and UTs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/govt-arranges-outward-movement-of-17-583-stranded-in-j-k/story-rp5XEhAlLQ0eOFxEMRA0hN.html
20-05-2020||City||Cab services resume but find few takers in Ludhiana||Though cab services finally resumed in the district following the lifting of curfew by the state government, the fear of catching an infection inside the vehicle kept most passengers away. While cabs plying within the city managed to find a few takers, there was almost zero demand for inter-district travel. Punjab taxi union president Jaideep Singh said the taxi business has been hit badly as residents are keen on hiring the cab services due to fear of infection. “Earlier, passengers would hire taxis to take them to the Golden Temple in Amritisar, Chandigarh airport or Delhi. But now with residents restricting their movement, we are hardly getting any passengers. Further, as the government has started bus services at cheaper rates for migrants, there are no takers for cabs.” Inter-state taxi drivers say that usually in summers, they made handsome profits as residents would take a trip to the hills to beat the heat. But this time, they aren’t expecting much business.Amanjot Singh, who works with a private cab aggregator, said, “Cab services resumed on May 18 and I waited for two days, but no passengers came forward. Earlier, I used to get at least 8-10 bookings a day.” “We used to get most of our business from students or young professions who came to the city from outside. But now that most students have left for their homes and professions are working from home, there are no takers for cabs,” says Singh, adding, “On our part, we have taken adequate precautions like keeping hand sanitisers inside our vehicles but the response is very low.”Meanwhile residents, who used to travel in local cabs, are now preferring their own vehicles. Ravi Arora, a resident of BRS Nagar, said, “Due to shortage of parking space near my shop in Mochpura Bazar, I used to take a cab to work but now I go in my own car as I don’t want to take any risk.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cab-services-resume-but-find-few-takers-in-ludhiana/story-3BGFqReXlSn9VZoTobmgQJ.html
20-05-2020||City||Iconic Indian Coffee House in Shimla resumes business||The Indian Coffee House (ICH), an iconic restaurant situated at The Mall in Shimla, has resumed business through takeaway and parcel service amid lockdown 4.0. This is after the Shimla district administration decided to relax curfew for eight hours. The coffee house witnessed good business on Wednesday as it did sales of more than Rs 3,000.Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, like other businesses, ICH was also closed, resulting in heavy losses. It is one of the most popular restaurants in Shimla, and on Wednesday, people were seen enjoying coffee on nearby benches.Manager Bhagat Sharma said, “Coffee and dosa are available as of now but other items are available in limited quantity. The rates of items remain the same. People have been demanding to be allowed to sit inside the coffee house while maintaining social distancing as they are missing the ambience of the place. But we cannot allow that in the present scenario.”“It was great to be able to enjoy their coffee after such a long time. I used to visit here frequently with my friends and we are waiting for things to get back to normal so that we can once again enjoy hanging out here,” said Surinder Thakur, a local.Built in 1957, the Indian Coffee House has been popular amongst tourists as well as locals. Prominent personalities, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, former Afghanistan PM Hamid Karzai, BJP leader LK Advani, and former PM Indira Gandhi, have visited the restaurant in the past.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/iconic-indian-coffee-house-in-shimla-resumes-business/story-jTM1uI767bIkDyDtIddfRP.html
20-05-2020||Ranchi||Covid-19 tally rises to 248 in Jharkhand||The number of Covid-19 cases in Jharkhand has climbed to 248, out of which 118 cases are active, the state health department said on Wednesday.Jharkhand has tested 37,589 samples as of Wednesday, according to the state health department.The state government has prohibited the movement of individuals between 7 pm to 7 am. However, essential activities have been exempted in the wake of the fourth phase of nationwide lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/covid-19-tally-rises-to-248-in-jharkhand/story-qaqcUAekZI96mQXcJ418MM.html
20-05-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand restricts movement of individuals across state, essential activities exempted||The Jharkhand government has strictly prohibited the movement of individuals between 7 pm to 7 am.However, essential activities have been exempted.“Movement of individuals shall remain strictly prohibited in Jharkhand between 7 pm to 7 am, except for essential activities. Local authorities shall issue orders under appropriate provisions of law to ensure strict compliance,” the state government said.The Centre has extended the nationwide lockdown till May 31 with some relaxations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-restricts-movement-of-individuals-across-state-essential-activities-exempted/story-6K2Cf57mAtqaIl4dsLkW2M.html
20-05-2020||Kolkata||Cyclone Amphan batters Bengal, Odisha as 6.5 lakh evacuated, 2 dead||An extremely severe cyclone packing winds of up to 190 kmph roared into West Bengal Wednesday, dumping heavy rain and leaving a trail of destruction that left at least two people dead, officials said. After making landfall at 2.30 p.m. between Digha in West Bengal and and Hatiya island in Bangladesh, cyclone Amphan cut a swathe through the coastal areas, flattening fragile dwellings, uprooting trees and electric poles. At least 6.58 lakh people were evacuated in West Bengal and Odisha before the cyclone struck. “The forward sector of the wall cloud region is entering into land in West Bengal. The intensity of the cyclone near its centre as the landfall process started was recorded at 160-170 kmph, gusting to 190 kmph,” the weather department said.ALSO WATCH Cyclone Amphan: ‘41 teams on ground in Odisha, Bengal,’ says NDRF chief  Two women were killed in Howrah district and Minakhan area of North 24 Parganas district due to uprooting of trees, an official said. NDRF chief S N Pradhan told a press conference in New Delhi that 20 teams of the federal disaster response force had already begun road clearing operations in Odisha, while the 19 units deployed in West Bengal were shifting people to safety. Quoting figures made available by the two states, Pradhan said over 5 lakh people were evacuated in West Bengal and more than 1.58 lakh in Odisha. TV footage showed gigantic tidal waves crashing into a seawall in Digha, close to the landfall site. Thick sheets of rain blurred the vast coastline in the two states and surging waters engulfed mud-and-thatch houses, flattening them in a trice. Heavy machinery was moved in to clear the roads blocked by falling trees. India Meteorological Department (IMD) Director General Mrityunjay Mohapatra, who jointly addressed the media with Pradhan, said gale-strength winds speeding at 160-170 kmph were pounding South and North 24 Parganas and East Midnapore districts and could be gusting up to 185 kmph. He said the eye of the monster cyclone, the most explosive part of the cyclonic system, had touched the land, triggering copious rain in the three districts. The eye of the storm itself was 30 km in diameter, he said. Mohapatra said the intensity of the rain and winds accompanying it could deceptively look like ebbing away briefly, but will surge afresh once the rear sector of the storm has reached the landmass. The whole cyclonic system will have reached the land by 7 pm, he said. Reports arriving in Kolkata from North and South 24 Parganas and East Midnapore said roofs of thatched houses were blown away, and twisted electric poles and broken and uprooted trees bore testimony to the devastation. Streets and homes in low lying areas of Kolkata were swamped with rainwater. Mohapatra said the storm will reach Kolkata in all its fury later in the evening and winds blowing at 110-120 kmph, and gusting at 135 kmph, coupled with downpour, will batter the capital city. Despite losing its force a bit since Tuesday, the storm, which was categorised as super cyclone at one point of time, has left the two eastern states on edge as it hollered on its destructive path over the Bay of Bengal. Intense rainfall was recorded in several areas of Puri, Khurda, Jagatsinghpur, Cuttack, Kendrapara, Jajpur, Ganjam, Ganjam, Bhadrak and Balasore districts since Tuesday. The rains and high-velocity winds will ebb away in Odisha by late Wednesday night by when the cyclone will likely have caused massive damage to standing crops, plantations and infrastructure, Mohapatra said. He said tidal surge of up to five metres could occur in North and South 24 Parganas and East Midnapore districts that could submerge areas in a radius of 15 km. The strong winds and rain could continue till tomorrow in West Bengal, he said. The turbulence will likely extend to Assam and Meghalaya, triggering heavy to very heavy rain on Thursday. Mohapatra said since the time the depression formed over the Bay of Bengal on May 20 till the cyclone made the landfall, the IMDs predictions about the path it will take and the timing was accurate and helped the disaster response machinery strategise and execute the plans to minimise the damage effectively. The cyclonic storm will get weaker while crossing over Nadia and Murshidabad in West Bengal later tonight before entering Bangladesh as a deep depression and dissipating. PTI AMR SKN PNT SK SK VJ VJ VJ||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/cyclone-amphan-batters-bengal-odisha-as-6-5-lakh-evacuated-2-dead/story-AnTyLlV7VWgUUCObtyWHUK.html
20-05-2020||Patna||Bihar allows plying of auto-rickshaws, e-rickshaws following odd-even rule||The Bihar government on Tuesday allowed auto-rickshaws and e-rickshaws to operate with limited passengers and following the odd-even scheme in the state during lockdown 4.0, a senior official said here.Auto-rickshaws and e-rickshaws with registration number ending with odd numbers will operate on Monday, Wednesday and Friday while those with even numbers are allowed to run on the remaining days of the week, Transport Secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageHowever, apart from the driver, only two passengers will be allowed in auto-rickshaws and e-rickshaws, the main modes of public transport in the cities and towns of the state.Agarwal directed authorities of all districts to enforce the decision.Both the driver and the passengers will have to wear masks and maintain social distancing norms during travel, he said adding that vehicle owner will ensure that it is sanitised properly. There will be no ban on plying of cycle rickshaws but they cannot take more than one passenger, the transport secretary said. App-based cab aggregators like Ola and Uber will be allowed to be run within a district carrying only two passengers, Agarwal said. Inter-district service will be allowed if a valid pass is issued by a district magistrate or the passenger has a ticket of special trains, he said. The fare of auto-rickshaws, e-rickshaws and taxis for different routes will be decided by the respective district magistrates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-allows-plying-of-auto-rickshaws-e-rickshaws-following-odd-even-rule/story-AfDeg9yX9HCgOmn3h8QneL.html
20-05-2020||City||Dharamshala MC waives off property tax of hotels, shops for three months||The Dharamshala municipal corporation on Wednesday waived off property tax of hotels and shops for a period of three months, from March to May, in wake of the Covid-19 outbreak.The decision was taken unanimously in a house meeting held through video-conferencing, mayor Devinder Singh Jaggi said.He said the decision will provide much needed relief to hoteliers and shopkeepers whose businesses have been adverserly hit due to the lockdown. Jaggi said the civic body will review the situation later and will decide on waiving off the tax in future too, if the lockdown continues.RESTRICITONS LIFTED IN KANGRA BUT WITH RIDERSThe Kangra administration on Wednesday lifted certain restriction in the district but curfew relaxation hours have not been extended. Deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said shops in the district will allowed to be open from 7:00am to 2:00am and the relaxation for morning walks/jogging also remains the same from 5:30am to 7:00am.He said stamp vendors and document writers can work on every Monday and Thursday from 10am to 2pm while maintaining social distancing. Land registration can also be done daily from 10am to 2pm at Tehsildar offices, he added.Salons and beauty parlors are also allowed to open but only after the operators get prescribed training from notified authorities. The owners will have to apply through labour officer and get training in their concerned sub-divisions.The DC said wearing of masks and maintaining social distancing will be mandatory for both shopkeepers and customers. Shopkeepers must mark circles outside their shops at a distance of 1.5 meters each.All government and private offices will continue to work for full timings but with rotation of employees, he said. If any employee has flu-like symptoms, health authorities should be intimated immediately and the office premises will be sanitised, the DC said.A curfew pass is mandatory for those entering or going outside the district, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dharamshala-mc-waives-off-property-tax-of-hotels-shops-for-three-months/story-25ZpzKhJYcYGTOYuu4U3KJ.html
20-05-2020||City||Boisar woman murders husband; attack filmed on victim’s phone helps cops make arrest||Kavita Maurya, 22, a resident of Ganesh Nagar in Boisar, was arrested by police for murdering her husband Arun, 29, using a steel pipe and ladle on Monday as she suspected him of having extramarital affairs with various women. The accused also kicked the victim, causing his spleen and kidneys to burst.The victim managed to film the attack with his mobile phone, which was then used as proof by the police to arrest his wife. The murder took place while the couple’s 10-month-old child was in the room.“Arun worked as a technician at a Goregaon-based moulding unit. Due to the lockdown, he was at home since March and the couple would fight daily as Maurya suspected him of having extramarital affairs with various women at his workplace,” said Pradip Kasbe, senior inspector of Boisar MIDC police station, adding that the wife used to regularly beat her husband.On May 18, a fight ensued during which Kavita used a steel pipe and ladle to assault Arun and also kicked him in the stomach. Due to the assault, Arun vomited blood and became unconscious.Maurya then called her brother who rushed Arun to the Tarapur primary health centre (PHC) where he was declared dead. “The PHC informed us and we started to probe the case. On checking Arun’s phone we found video clips of Kavita assaulting him,” said Kasbe. According to the officer, Arun was familiar with his wife’s domestic violence and on Monday, as soon as an argument ensued, he placed his phone on the window sill to film the incident. The footage captured showed Maurya assaulting him.During her interrogation, Maurya confessed to the crime and was arrested under section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). She has been remanded in police custody till May 21, while her brother is absconding.“We sent the body for a post mortem and its report is awaited. We have seized the murder weapons and the 10-month-child is now in the custody of Maurya’s relatives,” said Kasbe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/boisar-woman-murders-husband-attack-filmed-on-victim-s-mobile-phone/story-dw2GgyVtcyNl2be5dqt1oK.html
20-05-2020||Patna||Bihar reports 77 fresh cases, total count 1,519||Seventy-seven people tested positive for Covid-19 in Bihar on Wednesday, taking the total number of infected to 1519, a top official said here.According to Principal Secretary, Health, Sanjay Kumar, the central Bihar district of Jehanabad reported 30 fresh cases, including a boy and a girl aged three and five years respectively.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe district now accounts for 58 of the total cases.Twelve people, including a two-year-old boy, tested positive in Begusarai district, which has till date reported 84 cases. Only Patna, Munger and Rohtas districts account for higher tallies.Thirteen people tested positive in Katihar, five each in Bhagalpur and Kaimur, four in Aurangabad and three in Arwal, the principal secretary said.Patna, Nawada, Buxar, Jamui and Supaul districts reported one case each.All 38 districts in the state are affected by the disease and the highest number of 167 patients are in Patna, followed by Munger (133) and Rohtas (91).Nine people, two each from Patna and Vaishali districts, and one each from Munger, East Champaran, Sitamarhi, Rohtas and Khagaria have died. Most of the victims had pre-existing medical conditions like cancer, renal failure and tuberculosis.On the positive side, 534 patients have been discharged after full recovery.The state has seen a huge spike in the number of cases in the recent past, mainly on account of the heavy influx of migrants who have been travelling to their native places, many of them walking hundreds of kilometers on foot.According to the state health department, 754 migrants have tested positive in the state since May 3. A majority of the patients have recently returned from Delhi (247), Maharashtra (176) and Gujarat (155).Altogether, 50,563 samples have been tested in the state till date, a release issued by the state health department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-reports-77-fresh-cases-total-count-1-519/story-Q9UzjMxt7un1os7tVEOuvL.html
20-05-2020||City||Congress, BJP MLAs in HP demand special Vidhan Sabha session to discuss Covid-19||Cutting across the party lines, legislators in Himachal Pradesh have demanded a special two-day session of the Vidhan Sabha to discuss COVID-19 pandemic.A joint delegation of legislators from the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and opposition Congress on Wednesday requested Vidhan Sabha Speaker Vipin Singh Parmar to convene a special session of the assembly to discuss the prevailing situation.The delegation, led by leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri met Parmar at his office in the Vidhan Sabha complex here. Agnihotri said they have submitted a written request with the Speaker seeking to convene a special session and requested him to send the same to the state government. “Rising above the party lines, all legislators are together in this fight against Covid-19 which has impacted not only India but the entire world,” he added.Agnihotri said a lockdown was imposed in India and Himachal almost two months ago. “The Vidhan Sabha session was also cut short due to the pandemic,” he said. Senior BJP legislator Rakesh Pathania said the session will let people of the state know about the steps being taken to handle the situation and what needs to be done in the future to fight coronavirus.Speaker Vipin Singh Parmar said he has received a request from the joint delegation and it will be considered.Jai Ram flays opposition for politicising the pandemicChief minister Jai Ram Thakur flayed the opposition congress for playing politics over the pandemic. “It is unfortunate that the opposition is politicising the matter. The government is making all efforts to fight coronavirus. This is not the time to play politics. We all should instead unite to fight the disease,” the CM said. “Does the opposition have any treatment for Covid-19? Himachal Pradesh is performing far better than many other states in India,” he said, while sidetracking the allegations that people in quarantine were not being given proper facilities.“The opposition leaders in Himachal Pradesh should first analyse handling of the Covid crisis in the Congress-ruled states, including Rajasthan and Punjab,” the CM said.He said, “There has been a spurt in Covid-19 cases in Himachal Pradesh after the government allowed stranded residents to come back home. Those stranded outside the state were facing immense difficulty and were permitted to come back to their home state on humanitarian grounds. Many of them were stuck in places where Covid-19 infection was spreading.” “All the returnees have been quarantined and those who have tested positive were sent to institutional quarantine centres,” the CM added.“We cannot allow people to die. Those willing to come back home should do it now. Later, we will again restrict the entry of outsides,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/congress-bjp-mlas-in-hp-demand-special-vidhan-sabha-session-to-discuss-covid-19/story-ACRchZCJPw7uCkmB5Qm83O.html
20-05-2020||Chandigarh||Private school in Patiala demands annual, admission, Christmas party, library, trip fee||Violating the state government’s order, a private school in Patiala has asked parents of Class-11 students to deposit the fee for the next academic session. The school, British Co-Ed High School, has not just demanded the admission fee but also the annual fee, calendar fee, Christmas party fee, library fee and fee for the annual trip. The school’s administration has asked parents to deposit Rs 88,900 before May 21. The school started online classes for those who have already paid the fee on Wednesday. The state education department has directed private schools not to collect fee during the lockdown. The education department had issued an order in this regard in March. Schools are allowed to charge tuition fee, without annual hike, provided they are providing online classes during the lockdown.Despite the government’s instructions, British Co-Ed High School has asked 50 parents to deposit the fee, which comprises Rs 58,000 tuition fee, Rs 11,800 annual fee, Rs 16,500 admission fee, Rs 600 for the calendar and Christmas fee, Rs 1,000 library fee and Rs 1,000 for the annual trip.12 PARENTS COULDN’T SUBMIT THE FEEA distressed mother, on condition of anonymity, said, “How will I will arrange Rs 90,000 out of the blue? Thursday is the last date of fee submission.”“There are 50 students in Class 11. As many as 12 parents failed to arrange the school fee. The school started providing online classes to the students who did pay the fee and barred the others,” she said.Another parent said, “The school administration has asked a few parents to submit the fee in two instalments but we have asked the administration to charge the fee on a quarterly basis.”NOT FORCING PARENTS TO PAY: PRINCIPALExecutive principal Kiren Harika said, “We are not forcing anyone to pay the fee. We have given them the option to pay in instalments. If someone is still having trouble paying the fee, we can discuss the matter.”On excluding students from online classes, she said, “The online classes are just in the initial stage. The syllabus will be repeated for those who haven’t paid yet.”District education officer, secondary, Harinder Kaur, said, “Private schools can only charge tuition fee and only those schools that are providing online classes can charge the fee. We will take strict action against the schools that demand fee. I will look into the school in question.”She said, “I will write to a senior officer and take action against the school if it has defaulted on the orders. The action that will be taken against the school will be decided by a high-ranking official.”Education minister Vijay Inder Singla did not respond to calls and messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/private-school-in-patiala-demands-annual-admission-christmas-party-library-trip-fee/story-IcqftACOFX4kRBBGvidcMI.html
20-05-2020||Mumbai||Submit health report of Covid-19 positive inmates, precautionary measures taken by May 26: HC to state||The Bombay high court (HC) has directed the Maharashtra government to submit a comprehensive report, on the health status of prisoners who contracted Covid-19 and precautionary measures taken by various prisons and correction homes in the state, by May 26. This comes after three public interest litigations (PILs) relating to alleged lack of facilities and proper treatment of prisoners were heard by the court on Tuesday.The petitioners sought directions to the state and prison authorities to provide a report regarding the health and Covid status of the inmates to family members and advocates, and what precautionary measures were being taken for prisoners above 50 years of age, women with children, pregnant women, prisoners with pre-existing health conditions and disabilities, and others. The court directed the state to file a composite comprehensive report covering the aspects raised till May 26, after which it will pass further orders. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice S S Shinde, while hearing the PILs filed by People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL), an NGO; Geeta Jain, a politician from Mira-Bhayandar and Archana Rupwate, an activist and lawyer, through video conferencing on Tuesday was informed that since news of inmates contracting Covid-19 in some of the state prisons came to light, their families and advocates were worried about their well-being.The petitioners submitted through their respective lawyers--senior advocate Mihir Desai for PUCL, advocate Sunny Punamiya for Jain and advocate Afreen Khan for Rupwate--that as the authorities were not divulging any information nor any list of inmates undergoing treatment has been released, they should provide the prisoners “frequent opportunities to communicate with their family members, friends and lawyers via phone calls or video conferencing without any charge irrespective of the nature of the offence or custody.”The petitioners also submitted a list of facilities to be put in place to safeguard other non-infected prisoners. The bench directed the state through public prosecutor Deepak Thakare and assistant public prosecutor Prajakta Shinde to place “A composite comprehensive report touching upon all the aspects raised in the three PIL petitions as well as indicating measures taken so far” before it on May 26, 2020. The court also directed that the report “ought to indicate the names and particulars of under trial prisoners/convicts who have been tested and found to be Covid-19 positive.” The bench stated that after perusing the report it would pass further orders and posted the matter for hearing on May 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/submit-health-report-of-covid-19-positive-inmates-precautionary-measures-taken-by-may-26-hc-to-state/story-pAhNu20jDx4zz0O0smynyN.html
20-05-2020||City||Woman cheats migrants by promising to send them to their hometowns, arrested||Boisar MIDC police arrested Nisha Adaige, 31, for cheating 15 migrants by falsely promising to send them back to their hometowns in exchange for ₹3,000 per person. After Adaige did not arrange for the journey, the victims approached Boisar MIDC police. Adaige was arrested and has been remanded in police custody till 21 May by the Palghar court. “So far we have recovered only ₹10,000 from her, we are yet to recover ₹35,000. She has cheated many other migrants from New Delhi, Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh, Orissa, West Bengal and other states using the same modus operandi,” said a police officer. The police are further investigating the matter.The victim migrant workers were unaware of the government’s efforts to send them back home in Shramik special trains. Taking advantage of their ignorance, agents are cheating them, said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-cheats-migrants-by-promising-to-send-them-to-their-hometowns-arrested/story-PxeOP8y05TuLhpaNprwVdK.html
20-05-2020||Lucknow||UP prison inmates make masks, listen to ‘jail radios’ amid coronavirus lockdown||Authorities in Uttar Pradesh began taking all precautionary measures in the states jails even before the nationwide lockdown was enforced from March 25 onwards, including thermal screening and manufacture of sanitisers and face masks etc, a senior officer said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIn a telephonic interview with IANS, Uttar Pradesh Director General of Police (Prisons), Anand Kumar, said that an alert had been sounded to state jails on March 12 even as the coronavirus threat was looming large over the country so as to ensure the safety of both inmates and jail staff. Thermal screening was provided in jails as a precautionary measure.The task of manufacture of face masks, sanitisers and soaps was also taken up around that time. “Till May 7, jail inmates have manufactured around 11.49 lakh face masks, out of which 8 lakh have since been provided to government and non-governmental organisations. Also, the inmates and jail staff are using face masks. The manufacture of masks is still continuing,” the DGP (Prisons) said.The senior IPS officer said that the ‘jail radios’ were also coming in handy to fight the stress and anxiety among inmates amid the coronavirus scare in the country.Prisons Department spokesman Santosh Verma said that these radio systems were currently in operation in 26 jails, including those in Ghaziabad, Shahjahanpur, Gorakhpur, Itawah, Agra, Lucknow, and Noida.Verma said that these jail radios had helped prisoners keep themselves busy during the nationwide lockdown. Exchange of news and views through these radios have kept the jail inmates abreast of what is happening in the outside world. Interestingly, these jail radios are operated by prisoners, with jail staff having nothing the do with the endeavour.Official sources said that the 71 jails in Uttar Pradesh house more than 90,000 undertrials and convicted prisoners. As the coronavirus threat loomed large, authorities paroled out 2,251 convicted and 13,453 undertrial prisoners. So, there are still over 75,000 prisoners lodged in state jails.Ten of the 71 jails in Uttar Pradesh are said to be overcrowded -- Moradabad, Jaunpur, Lalitpur, Saharanpur, Ghaziabad, Devaria, Mathura, Varanasi,Shahjahanpur and Itawah. As for the numbers, the Prayagraj jail is the most overcrowded, lodging over 4,000 inmates as compared with its capacity of 2,060 prisoners only.DGP Kumar said that in order to prevent the spread of coronavirus in the jails, 56 temporary jails were set up in 45 districts of Uttar Pradesh. As many as 783 prisoners are lodged there, including 538 Indians and 245 foreigners, so that inmates lodged in regular jails were saved from the spread of coronavirus.Verma said that 100 PPE kits have so far been made in Meerut jail, costing Rs 600 each. He pointed out that a face mask costing Rs 95 was available in the markets outside at five-six times this cost.The work of making PPE kits was also going on in Lucknow Model Jail. At least 132 kits have so far been supplied to Balrampur hospital.DGP Kumar said that they had made efforts to provide sewing machines in jails which so far did not have these, in order to speed up the manufacture of face masks. As for coronavirus cases reported in different jails, the senior officer said that the death of an inmate in Agra jail had come to light. “However, we are trying everything possible to ensure that the jail inmates across Uttar Pradesh are saved from the threat of coronavirus,” he added.(Sanjiv Chauhan can be contacted at sanjiv.c@ians.in)--IANSHindi/tsb||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-prison-inmates-make-masks-listen-to-jail-radios-amid-lockdown/story-Afdt3uRFC1BVgPCb9vwafO.html
20-05-2020||Lucknow||Have made arrangements for safe return of migrants to state: UP CM||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday said the Centre and UP government have made arrangements for bringing migrant labourers and workers to the state safely by trains and buses and that they should not walk or use unsafe modes of transport to return to their homes.The chief minister also directed the officials to provide drinking water and food to all migrants at toll plazas, expressways and main crossings as well as on the borders of the state, according to officials. While attending a high-level review meeting with senior officials here, Adityanath stressed on creating awareness among the migrants for using safe transport. He said so far 838 Shramik Express trains have brought more than 14 lakh migrant labourers and workers and that in the next two days 206 more trains will arrive. With this, the total number of trains arranged by the state would be 1,044.The chief minister asked respective commissioners to undertake regular monitoring of the Shramik Special trains arriving in their divisions and also the arrangements for sending the migrants to their home districts by buses.He said 12,000 buses of Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation have been deployed for taking the migrants to their home districts. Besides, the state government has provided 200 buses each to every district magistrate in all the 75 districts.“The Centre and Uttar Pradesh government have made arrangements for a safe and respectable return of the migrant labourers and workers free of cost by trains and buses. Keeping their own and their families’ interest in mind they should not walk or take illegal and unsafe modes of transport for returning,” the chief minister said. He also directed the officials concerned to ensure that the migrant labourers are provided with water and food as soon as they enter the state, before their screening, and taking them safety to their destinations, the officials said.The chief minister also asked officials to ensure that no one should remain hungry and community kitchens should provide food to all the needy persons. He also asked them to provide food grains to all the eligible families in the state.Saying that a large number of migrant labourers and workers were expected to arrive in the state, Adityanath said the capacity of quarantine centres should be increased to 15 lakh people besides making arrangements for providing food to all of them through community kitchens.He also directed that the number of beds in Covid-19 hospitals be increased to 75,000.The chief minister stressed on effective patrolling to check strict compliance of social distancing and preventing crowding and directed that foot patrolling should be undertaken in the market areas and heavy patrolling in the rural areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/have-made-arrangements-for-safe-return-of-migrants-to-state-up-cm/story-z57BOzsXCU6SRvaJbWYulK.html
20-05-2020||Noida||Buses for migrants moved to Noida by Congress stopped||Engulfed in a bitter ‘bus war’ with Yogi Adityanath-led Uttar Pradesh government, the Congress has managed to move the buses arranged to transport the migrants to Noida. The police, however, stopped the buses in Sector 39 area of Noida and did not allow their movement. Uttar Pradesh Congress Commmitee (UPCC) office bearer and former MLA of Shamli, Pankaj Malik said: “Our leader Priyanka Gandhi has promised to provide 1,000 buses and we are ready at various entry points in the state, but the BJP is doing politics. This is high time to help the migrants.”Meanwhile, Sandeep Singh, the personal aide of Priyanka Gandhi has written another letter on late Tuesday that the buses which are stranded at various entry points will wait for Uttar Pradesh government’s nod till 4 pm on Wednesday.The Uttar Pradesh government had asked buses to be moved to Noida and Ghaziabad.“We are committed to help the migrants and hope the UP government will show positive attitude towards the migrants,” wrote Sandeep Singh to Additional Chief Secretary Avneesh Awasthi.He also blamed Uttar Pradesh police of high-handedness.Amid the ongoing bitter politics over buses for stranded migrant workers, Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday said that out of 1,049 buses, 879 have been found fit by the Uttar Pradesh government and the party will provide 200 more buses on Wednesday.She also urged the UP government not to delay the bus services for the stranded migrant workers willing to go back to their homes.In a series of tweets, Priyanka Gandhi said: “Uttar Pradesh government has itself said that of the 1,049 buses offered by us, 879 have been found proper in the verification. At Uncha Nagala border our 500 buses have been made to wait by the administration for several hours. Similarly on Delhi border 300 buses are also coming. Please allow 879 buses to ply.”“Tomorrow we will provide the list of 200 more buses for the service. Get the list of those buses also verified. People are in trouble and sad. We cannot delay any further,” Priyanka Gandhi, who is also Congress in-charge of eastern Uttar Pradesh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/buses-for-migrants-moved-to-noida-by-congress-stopped/story-CauD37itCv7Egn0fRr4aVI.html
20-05-2020||Chandigarh||Infected Class-4 employees at Ludhiana civil hospital allege mistreatment||Two days after doctors and paramedics staged a protest over substandard masks, a video circulated by four Class-4 staff members who tested positive for the novel coronavirus disease (Covid-19) alleging mistreatment at the hospital, has caused fresh embarrassment to authorities. In a two-minute video shot on Wednesday morning, the Class-4 contractual employees said they were being treated like untouchables.The staff members who had tested positive on May 18 and 19 said, “Despite being paid a meagre salary (Rs 4,500 a month), we continued to serve Covid-19 patients. However, little did we know that once we become infected we will be treated like second-class citizens by the regular staff members of the hospital.”The patients bolted the door of their room to register their protest.SUBSTANDARD FOODThey alleged that the food being served was substandard.“We had to arrange milk from outside after tea was not offered to us for the entire day. But the staff refused to deliver it to us. If we are treated in such a way then one can imagine the plight of regular patients. We were not even given bed sheets,” said the protesting staff employees.The video shows the four women weeping while narrating their ordeal.“Neither the senior medical officer (SMO) of the hospital nor any other staff member has visited us since our diagnosis,” said the Covid-19 positive employees.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said, “We are a family here and irrespective of being senior or junior, everyone has the right to be treated equally. The four employees contracted the virus while serving patients and it is regrettable that they had to protest to raise the issue of unfair treatment.”“I have directed SMO Dr Geeta Kataria to look into the matter and provide employees with all the necessary items,” said Dr Bagga.NOT A ONE-OFF INCIDENT This is not the first time that lack of facilities have triggered a protest at the civil hospital.Earlier, patients in the isolation wards had protested against the hospital authorities for not providing them with bedsheets while pilgrims who had returned from Nanded had protested against the poor quality food being offered to them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/infected-class-4-employees-at-ludhiana-civil-hospital-allege-mistreatment/story-8uubPfm8WMpnybKFL9ev3I.html
20-05-2020||Noida||Noida: 8 arrested for defying lockdown, 179 vehicles owners penalised||Eight people were arrested and challans issued to owners of 179 vehicles across Noida and Greater Noida for allegedly defying the lockdown on Tuesday, the Gautam Bddh Nagar police said. Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) Section 144 is in force in Gautam Buddh Nagar, which falls in the red zone for Covid-19, even as lockdown restrictions continue due to the pandemic, prohibiting normal movement in this district in western Uttar Pradesh adjoining Delhi. Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“Five FIRs were registered on Tuesday for lockdown violations and eight people arrested. A total of 803 vehicles were checked across 200 barrier points in the district and challans issued to (owners of) 179 of them, while one was impounded,” the police said in a statement.  The FIRs were registered under Indian Penal Code section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and violation of prohibitory orders put in place under CrPC Section 144, which bars assembly of four or more people, they said.  Noida’s border with Delhi continues to remain sealed with movement permission only for essential services and to those having passes issued by the district administration, according to officials. The administration had in April banned movement between Noida and Delhi in a bid to break the chain of Covid-19 transmission as several cases of coronavirus here were linked to the national capital, the officials said.  As of Tuesday, 289 positive cases of coronavirus have been recorded in the district including five deaths, while 207 patients have recovered and got discharged from hospitals, according to official figures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-8-arrested-for-defying-lockdown-179-vehicles-owners-penalised/story-sBP5MZqKq6DY3PR7c5UdUP.html
20-05-2020||Mumbai||Dysfunctional Badlapur wastewater treatment plant fined ₹5 lakh for polluting Waldhuni river||The state pollution control board has fined a privately-run Badlapur common effluent treatment plant (CETP) for releasing untreated industrial waste into the Waldhuni river, which had turned red last week due to the pollution.There has been a marginal improvement in water quality this week as the river water was not tainted red as Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) and the CETP managers said effluent treatment was being carried out on priority.The red colour was spotted across several sections of a nine-kilometre stretch of Waldhuni, a tributary of the Ulhas river, which supplies water to cities in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region.Following directions from the National Green Tribunal from January this year, urban local bodies and CETPs failing to treat sewage or effluents are liable to a penalty of Rs 05 lakh.“Every CETP has to pay up a bank guarantee for such violations. We have directed the Badalpur CETP to forfeit their existing bank guarantee, which will be confiscated by us, and the CETP will have to pay double [Rs 10 lakh] as the new bank guarantee and ensure such violations are not repeated,” said Amar Supate, principal scientific officer, MPCB.The CETP is run by an association of local industrial units. According to CETP operators, 22 pharmaceutical, textile, food processing and chemical industries are functional during the lockdown, sending effluents to the dysfunctional CETP.“In their response to our notice, the CETP informed that their operator was not present when some of these 22 industries had begun production. However, they have called in their vigilance team and assured us that such violations of Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974, will not be repeated,” said SL Waghmare, regional officer (Kalyan), MPCB.A Badlapur CETP member, requesting anonymity, said they had taken three major decisions following the issue. “A standard operating procedure has been set for all 22 industries functioning during the lockdown that they cannot function until a CETP employee checks their effluent discharge mechanism. Secondly, any new unit starting production needs to take permission from the CETP. Lastly, a separate vigilance team is monitoring daily production and wastewater treatment,” the member said, adding that it was not a textile unit but a drug manufacturing unit part of the essential services using chemicals that led to the red coloured effluents. “The vigilance department is looking into the exact source of pollution, and we submit further compliance reports to MPCB and bear the penalty.”The complainant Ulhasnagar Citizens Forum Satyajit Burman and petitioners before the Supreme Court environment group Vanashakti welcomed the penal action. “We hope the fines serve as a deterrent. We are closely monitoring the situation, and if pollution levels do not decline, we will be forced to seek legal remedy,” said Stalin D, director, Vanashakti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/dysfunctional-badlapur-wastewater-treatment-plant-fined-5-lakh-for-polluting-waldhuni-river/story-P3VGecw4c7WF8kRkcSrkeO.html
20-05-2020||City||CII suggests measures to improve Himachal’s fiscal prudence||The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) Himachal chapter has submitted suggestions to the state government on improving its fiscal prudence, which has been hit by the Covid-19 pandemic.CII Himachal chairman Col Shailesh Pathak, who met chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Wednesday, said the delegation apprised the CM about various issues that were hampering industrial activities in the state.“There are certain challenges that have been adversely hampering the sustenance of industry in these difficult times,” said Pathak.He said since industries in Himachal Pradesh were located on the borders, the restrictions on interstate movement of man and material had hit the operations despite having the permission to run the units.“We have suggested a workable solution to the problem and requested the CM to consider the same,” said Pathak.We have also submitted a detailed note on ‘Improving Fiscal Prudence of Himachal Pradesh’ encompassing the key recommendations based on the thrust sectors of the state, he said.“CII believes that the recommendations – for key sectors like horticulture, tourism, renewable energy and pharmaceuticals – if considered and implemented will go a long way in improving the fiscal health of the state in short as well as long term,” he added.CII has exhorted the state government to impress upon the central government for special devolution of financial resources to Himachal.The state government should allow donation to CM relief funds considering the same as corporate social responsibility, on the lines of PM Cares.“The state should also demand the Centre to relax Financial Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) Act to allow higher borrowings,” said Pathak adding that the pending GST dues for financial year 2019-20 shall also be released to the states.The CII chairman said Himachal must reduce wasteful administrative expenditure and also disinvest in the public sector units and corporations.“CII has laid special emphasis on horticulture and allied services as apple is the most important fruit crop of Himachal Pradesh, which constitutes about 49% of the total area under fruit crops and about 74% of the total fruit production,” he said.Pathak said their other recommendations include ensuring proper and effective supply chains for fruit sale, expediting proposed bulk drug manufacturing park, and developing a strategy to attract investments flowing out of China due to changed global business dynamics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cii-suggests-measures-to-improve-himachal-s-fiscal-prudence/story-SvDeqXaSu2Q9Tm1RY8AMvI.html
20-05-2020||Mumbai||PIL claims private hospitals not admitting, overcharging Covid patients; HC directs to implead BMC chief||The Bombay high court (HC) has directed a petitioner to implead (to make a party in the lawsuit) the municipal commissioner in response to a public interest litigation (PIL) claiming that private hospitals were not admitting Covid-19 patients or overcharging them for treatment. The PIL also stated that the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) was not accepting reports from private testing labs and subjecting tested persons to fresh tests. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice SS Shinde was of the opinion that the presence of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) chief Iqbal Chahal was necessary to adjudicate such matters.The PIL filed by Sarika Singh, a resident of Kurla, was brought to hearing through video conferencing by advocate Varsha Jagdale.Jagdale submitted that private hospitals were charging exorbitant amounts for treatment of patients or refusing to treat them at all. She added that Singh was prompted to file the PIL after she learnt that a police constable who had Covid like symptoms, was asked to deposit ₹2 lakh by a private hospital in Vashi to be admitted there.Jagdale added that as the constable was unable to arrange for the amount, he was kept waiting for around five hours. It was only after the local police station threatened to file an FIR against the hospital authorities, that the hospital admitted him with a deposit of ₹20,000. According to the petition, as police personnel are covered by the Aarogya Kutumb Yojana – an insurance cover provided by the centre – private hospitals should not refuse admission to them.It was also submitted on behalf of the petitioner, that test reports issued by private hospitals certifying patients as not infected by Covid-19, were not being accepted by the corporation and they were made to undergo fresh tests. On the suggestion of the government pleader that the BMC commissioner should also be a party to the PIL, the bench allowed the interim application of the petitioner to add him as a respondent.The court observed, “Having regard to the nature of issues raised in the PIL petition and also upon hearing learned counsel appearing for the respective parties, we are of the considered opinion that the presence of the municipal commissioner would be beneficial for proper adjudication of such issues and dispensation of justice on this PIL petition.”With regards to the main prayers in the PIL, the court directed Purnima Kantharia, government pleader for the state, and advocate Yamuna Parekh for the BMC, to obtain instructions from the authorities on grievances raised by the petitioner. The PIL has been posted for further hearing on May 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pil-claims-private-hospitals-not-admitting-overcharging-covid-patients-hc-directs-to-implead-bmc-chief/story-HbDRzh7SGVTObvT2Epjy1L.html
20-05-2020||Mumbai||AICTE allows management institutes to convert existing MBA intakes to PGDM or vice-versa||The All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) has put an end to the controversy over management courses by agreeing to allow management institutes to convert the entire existing intake of MBA and MMS courses into PGDM intake or vice-versa.According to the consent terms agreed between AICTE and the Association of Indian Management Schools which was submitted to the Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday, the institutes will also have the liberty “to conduct both MBA/MMS and standalone PGDM institute as separate entities from the same premises.”The consent terms have come after the HC on Wednesday sought an explanation from AICTE after the University of Mumbai (MU) said AICTE’s new Admission Process Handbook (APH) which made it mandatory to conduct postgraduate diploma in management (PGDM) as a standalone course was not feasible at least this year.AICTE on February 14, 2020 issued new APH prohibiting institutions from conducting MBA and PGDM courses from the same institution and asked institutions to either convert PGDM course into MBA or convert MBA course into PGDM or start a new institution for conducting PGDM course.Association of Indian Management Schools moved the HC challenging the validity of the new rules. In a petition filed through advocate Ashutosh Kullarni, it has contended that the changes introduced by AICTE for management education institutions through the APH for 2020-21 were “drastic and disastrous” as most management institutes would not be able to meet the requirement.It was also argued on behalf of the association that the options given by AICTE were not feasible as at least half acre land is required to set up a new institute in Mumbai under AICTE norms. “The management will require at least ₹500 crore only for fulfilling this condition,” the association’s lawyer had argued earlier. “These utopian ideas are not capable of implementation,” the lawyer had said.There are 367 institutes that offer PGDBM course in Maharashtra.MU had filed an affidavit in reply to the petition stating the new rules are not feasible, at least for the next academic year. MU also informed the court that consequences would ensue not only upon institutions which run both the courses from same premises but also on the students’ community and the administrative machinery.Justice KR Shriram on Tuesday disposed of the association’s petition in view of the consent terms, which allow management institutes to carry forward and convert all existing intake of part time postgraduate programs of MU into PGDM intake in the next two years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/aicte-allows-management-institutes-to-convert-existing-mba-intakes-to-pgdm-or-vice-versa/story-hqSSEXAjlSe6yz2shEZyEL.html
20-05-2020||City||Kerala man held with 200gm charas in Himachal’s Mandi district||A Kerala resident was arrested with 200gm charas (cannabis) in Himachal Pradesh’s Mandi district on Tuesday. The accused Lukman Jalal, 25, a resident of Ernakullam, Kerala, was caught with the contraband at a checkpoint while he was on his way to Delhi from Kullu in a Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) bus. The HRTC buses are ferrying stranded people as per the directions of the state government. “The accused, who was stranded in Kullu district due to the lockdown, boarded the bus which was enroute Delhi. He was caught with the contraband at a checkpoint,” Mandi superintendent of police Gurdev Sharma said. A case has been registered under the NDPS Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kerala-man-held-with-200gm-charas-in-himachal-s-mandi-district/story-6pu0ZipMkskuyaOJqPaiHJ.html
20-05-2020||Lucknow||UP CM announces Rs 2 lakh ex-gratia for kin of deceased in Etawah accident||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday expressed grief over the death of six people in a road accident in Etawah.He has directed the officials to provide financial assistance of Rs 2 lakh each to the families of the deceased and Rs 50,000 for the injured.Six farmers were killed and one sustained injury after the truck in which they were travelling collided with another truck in Friends Colony area of Etawah on Tuesday night.“Farmers were going to market to sell jackfruit. The injured person has been admitted at Saifai Medical College,” said R Singh, SP City.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-cm-announces-rs-2-lakh-ex-gratia-for-kin-of-deceased-in-etawah-accident/story-HhsEJ2eOQ03XSNeaSZGc6L.html
20-05-2020||Mumbai||HC disposes plea after state assures disposal of seized PPE to frontline workers||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday disposed of a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Mohan Joshi, general secretary of the Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee (MPCC), after the state told the bench that a competent authority under the Essential Commodities Act, 1955, has already ordered the release of some of the crucial and vital medical protective equipment and resources seized by the state’s investigating agencies to the Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai. The PIL had sought proper disposal of properties under seizure so that it could reach those in the frontline in the battle against Covid-19. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice SS Shinde, while hearing the PIL through video conferencing, was informed by advocate Vishal Kanade, appearing for Joshi, that since the centre had announced the Covid-19 pandemic, there had been many instances of black marketing and stockpiling of sanitizers, face masks, gloves and other protective equipment. The police had raided and seized these stockpiles.Kanade submitted that in light of a shortage of the protective medical equipment, the petition sought directions to the state to furnish a list of the seized material, action taken after the seizure and to direct the authorities to hand over the material to concerned authorities to distribute it among the frontline workers. The state, through government pleader Poornima Kantharia, submitted an affidavit wherein it was mentioned that the competent authority, under the Essential Commodities Act, had passed interim orders detailing the procedure for disposal of such seized properties but making it clear that such arrangement would be subject to the orders of the criminal court.Kanade informed the court that though the interim orders of the competent authority were challenged in judicial proceedings the same were not stayed and hence the HC should direct the state to implement the interim orders.Kantharia then submitted that action was being taken in terms of the orders of the competent authority and a part of the seized properties had been handed over to the Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai.After hearing the submissions the court observed, “So long the orders of the competent authority are not disturbed in judicial proceedings, the state shall make all possible endeavour to implement such orders and ensure that in these trying times the seized properties do reach the end-users for combating Covid-19.” It then disposed of the petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-disposes-plea-after-state-assures-disposal-of-seized-ppe-to-frontline-workers/story-Bu6JiWzMcCtlLUaVjdV9XO.html
20-05-2020||Education||IIT Kharagpur to set up centre of excellence on medical device||The IIT Kharagpur is going to set up a ‘Centre of Excellence on Medical Device and Diagnostics’ to foster innovation of affordable and indigenous medical devices and diagnostics in priority areas.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has accepted a proposal by the IIT-KGP to set up the facility and earmarked Rs 20 crore for it, according to a statement issued by the institute.“We thank the ICMR for entrusting us with this responsibility....We had a rewarding experience in engaging with the ICMR through a pilot, ICMR-IIT Kharagpur MedTech internship programme, earlier and that drew great interest among engineering and medical students,” IIT Kharagpur Director Prof V K Tewari said.The centre of excellence will aim to develop marketable technologies within a time frame and use this experience to achieve longer-term goals to address challenging problems in the field of medical devices and diagnostics.Following a call by the ICMR in January, the IIT Kharagpur proposed to build the facility which will have thrust areas encompassing artificial intelligence in healthcare, medical devices for screening and diagnostics in healthcare, medical implants, and bio-sensors in healthcare, the spokesperson said.A super-speciality hospital of the IIT Kharagpur is also coming up.“Recently we heard that people residing in nearby areas of West Bengal and neighbouring states of Jharkhand and Odisha are feeling hopeful that the burden of accessing healthcare facilities on patients and their families would be reduced with the upcoming superspecialty hospital of IIT Kharagpur,” Tewari said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/iit-kharagpur-to-set-up-centre-of-excellence-on-medical-device/story-tqLoAzmtSDLNNtcRozYwqO.html
20-05-2020||Mumbai||Activist Afroz Shah detained by cops for ferrying migrants to Ghatkopar bus stand||Lawyer and beach clean-up crusader Afroz Shah was on Tuesday night allegedly detained by Tilak Nagar police for two hours in suburban Chembur for allegedly ferrying stranded migrants.Shah, the man behind the clean-up of Mumbai’s Versova beach, has been feeding and transporting migrant workers in the city and on highways during the lockdown. He has also been tending to stray dogs and cats on the streets.“Detained for ferrying migrant workers to their destination in Mumbai. God bless this country,” Shah wrote in a tweet on Tuesday night, in which he tagged the Mumbai Police and police commissioner. “Harassed for 2 hours by Tilak Nagar police..Taken to the police station..Let off by saying please leave.. Suspending all my activities to help the poorest of the poor.. Sorry migrants - the system doesn’t allow me to work for you. Broken heart.. Broken soul..I cry and I am in pain,” he wrote in another tweet.Shah said that he was helping migrants who were walking from Byculla to Ghatkopar, a distance of around 16 km, to catch a bus, when he was detained by police.“I was on the highway between Thane and Nashik, ferrying and providing food for those on the roads for the second half of the day. When I returned to the city at night to help those looking for dinner, I saw a group of around eight to 10 people at Mulund check naka who wanted to reach Byculla. These people had come from Bhiwandi where they did not have any food, were hoping to find work in Mumbai. I dropped them and while taking a U-turn, I saw another group of people, around 30 to 40 of them, who were walking towards LBS Road in Ghatkopar, from where they were to board a bus for Uttar Pradesh. I took around seven to eight of them in the pick-up truck and told others that I would come back to ferry them. At LBS Road the police stopped me,” said Shah.He recalled that the police were abusive and heckled him. “The two constables were getting aggressive and told me to come to the police station. I told them to register a first information report (FIR) as my crime is to help the poor. My volunteer Faizan and I were taken to the police station. They did not register an FIR but detained me. After two hours, they asked me to go with them to LBS Road to drop the migrants, and then I was asked to leave,” he added. Shah said that he has been on the roads for 16 hours a day while observing his fast during the holy month of Ramzan.Shah has been helping the sick and poor on the roads during the lockdown, distributing food, water, juice, and biscuits. “There is a huge humanitarian crisis. If a government is not doing it, we citizens will step out. My mother says that I am putting myself in grave risk. But I cannot sit in my fancy flat and [drive around in my] car. I have to help my fellow citizens,” said Shah, adding that he has now been forced to suspend his efforts.Sushil Kamble, senior inspector, Tilak Nagar police station, said Shah was stopped during routine nakabandi. “There were seven to eight persons in the vehicle which is not allowed. There was no permission for the same,” Kamble said. “The officer who stopped Shah told him that the labourers may face further problems on the road after he drops them. We asked him to take necessary permissions and send them through trains after filling requisite forms,” he added.Sashikumar Meena, deputy commissioner of police, zone 6, said that he would look into the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/activist-afroz-shah-detained-by-cops-for-ferrying-migrants-to-ghatkopar-bus-stand/story-nrbl1ItTrb2F9LglfHnBSP.html
20-05-2020||Mumbai||IndiGo operates two evacuation flights for stranded Vietnam nationals||IndiGo, which has been roped in to fly stranded passengers from India to Vietnam, operated two special flights today (Wednesday).The flight 6E9103 from Bengaluru and Pune to Delhi transferred total 103 passengers while the flight 6E9102 from Gaya-Delhi transferred 99 passengers to Delhi, for their return flight to Vietnam. The charter flight was initiated by the Vietnam Embassy. After the passengers reached Delhi that Vietnam embassy arranged for a chartered flight to Vietnam. Indigo operated the two domestic flights. The third was by a Vietnamese charter operator.The operations helped evacuate 99 Vietnamese citizens from Gaya, 23 from Bengaluru, and 80 from Pune, to Delhi. It was from the country capital, where they were flown to Vietnam. The flights also transported about 900kgs of Cargo.Ronojoy Dutta, chief executive officer, IndiGo said, “Our flights aided in the transfer of 202 Vietnamese citizens from Bangalore, Pune and Gaya to Delhi to board their return flight to Vietnam. We would like to extend our gratitude to the government for allowing IndiGo to operate these repatriation flights, which contributed to the safe return of stranded Vietnam Nationals to their homes. We will continue to contribute to the country in every way possible in these trying times”. This is the second time that the low-cost carrier operated repatriation flights during this pandemic. Many of the repatriation flights are being operated by the national carrier Air India and its subsidiary Air India Express.Earlier on May 8, IndiGo flew two special flights for Kenyan nationals in India. The-Delhi Ahmedabad-Mumbai flight transferred 114 passengers while the Chennai-Bangalore- Hyderabad-Mumbai operation transferred 83 passengers. After being shifted to Mumbai, all of them were flown to Nairobi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/indigo-operates-3-evacuation-flights-for-vietnamese-stuck-in-gaya-pune-bangalore/story-wgMGCk1MaTif3ojR2FPLOL.html
20-05-2020||Pune||Three arrested for killing man, dumping body in Indrayani river||Three men were arrested by the Pimpri-Chinchwad crime branch officials on Monday for allegedly killing a man and dumping his body in the Indrayani river.The deceased was identified as Sunil Ramrao Marajkole, 35, a resident of Antargaon Paluti, in Ralegaon area of Yavatmal, according to the police.The three arrested were identified as Aniket alias Tiger Babarao Shinde, 19, Pavan Kisan Borole, 26, both residents of Dehugaon, and Mahendra Vijay Mane, 38, a resident of Gawali nagar in Bhosari.The information about three of the four accused was received by the assistant police inspector Ram Gomare and police naik Dattatray Bansode of Unit 5.The three were arrested from Sangurdi phata area of Dehuroad. The accused refused to co-operate with the police initially, according to a statement issued by Unit 5 of Pimpri-Chinchwad crime branch. However, upon interrogation, Shinde revealed that they had worked with another man identified as Sachin.They all lived in the fields near the Indrayani river and had gotten into a fight about alcohol last Thursday afternoon. The fight turned violent on Friday evening and around midnight on Friday, they had beaten the deceased man to death. They tied his limbs together before attaching a sack of rocks to his body and dumping it in the Indrayani river.A case under sections 302 (murder) and 201 (destruction of evidence) of the Indian penal code was registered at the Dehuroad police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/three-arrested-for-killing-man-dumping-body-in-indrayani-river/story-QFKszkNEoVzDqvVJipN9bJ.html
20-05-2020||Chandigarh||Three civil engineers drown in Jhajjar||Three civil engineers drowned while bathing in a canal in Jhajjar on Tuesday night.The victims, Pradeep, 32, Ashish Bhardwaj, 28 and SM Murslim, 30, are all residents of Delhi.Badli station house officer Jitender Singh said he had received a call from one of the victims’ family members on Tuesday evening around 7pm saying that the trio had not returned home from Jhajjar’s Naurangpur village and were not responding to calls.The civil engineers were working at a construction site at Naurangpur village. “After tracing the engineers’ mobile phones, we found their car and clothes on the bank of the canal. Divers were able to fish out the bodies of the three victims,” the SHO said.“They would commute daily to Jhajjar from Delhi in a car. We suspect the victims went into deep water and drowned”, the SHO added.The police have handed over the victims’ dead bodies to their family members after conducting an autopsy.Police have started inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPc).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-civil-engineers-drown-in-jhajjar/story-YIcbNb5pRZzdpgXymjmG8J.html
20-05-2020||Lucknow||Mayawati accuses Cong, BJP of doing politics over issue of sending migrants home||BSP chief Mayawati on Wednesday lashed out at the Congress and BJP, accusing them of doing politics over the issue of sending migrant labourers home. The Congress and Uttar Pradesh government have been involved in a war of words over the issue of buses for migrants. In a series of tweets, Mayawati said, “The disgusting politics being done in the past several days, specially by the BJP and Congress in the name of sending migrant labourers home is most unfortunate. Are these parties accusing each other in connivance to divert attention from the tragedy?”.“If it is not so then the BSP has to say that instead of insisting on sending the migrants by buses, the Congress should help them go home by trains by arranging their tickets,” she said in another tweet. The former UP chief minister said BSP workers have been helping migrants in the entire country “without caring for publicity”.“Unlike the BJP and Congress, BSP has not indulged in any disgusting politics,” she said.“Also, BSP has a suggestion for the Congress party that if they have to help the migrants return through buses only and not by train, then it would be better that they send these buses to Congress-ruled states for helping labourers “ Mayawati said. The UP government on Tuesday said the list of 1,000 buses offered by the Congress to ferry migrant workers contained registration numbers of two-wheelers and cars. The Congress, however, rejected the claim, challenging Yogi Adityanath’s government to conduct a “physical verification” of the buses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/mayawati-accuses-cong-bjp-of-doing-politics-over-issue-of-sending-migrants-home/story-hoFoUsyWUnIIsTFsKr8BsM.html
20-05-2020||Jaipur||9 special Karnataka trains ferry 13,119 migrants home||The South Western Railway (SWR) zone operated nine special trains to ferry 13,119 migrants back home to seven north and east Indian states, an official said on Tuesday.“First Shramik special train of Tuesday left from Hubli to Hatia in Jharkhand at 12:00 pm with 1,477 passengers,” said a SWR zone spokesperson.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe second special train left Malur station on the outskirts of Bengaluru to Saharsa in Bihar at 3:15 pm with 1,500 passengers.“Highlight of this train is with this Bengaluru Division (of SWR) has crossed the milestone of ferrying 1 lakh passengers by Shramik specials,” said the official.This was 74th such train from the city.“Third Shramik special train of Tuesday left Chikka Bannavara station to Gwalior in Madhya Pradesh at 3:45 pm with 1,549 passengers,” said the official.The fourth Shramik special train departed from Bengaluru Cantonment at 4:00 pm with 1,081 migrants for Lal Kuan in Uttarakhand.SWR’s fifth special train left Chikka Bannavara station for Mau in Uttar Pradesh at 5:35 pm with 1,548 migrants.The sixth train departed from Malur at 6:57 p.m. with 1,544 passengers to Katihar in Bihar.Similarly, the seventh special train departed from Chikka Bannavara at 7 pm with 1,420 migrants to Basti in Uttar Pradesh.The eighth special train left Bengaluru Cantonment station at 8:20 pm with 1,500 migrants to Agartala in Tripura.Tuesday’s ninth special train departed Malur at 9:08 p.m. with 1,500 migrants to Barkhakhana in Jharkhand.Meanwhile, migrants are boarding Tuesday’s 10th and 11th special trains at KSR Bengaluru to Arraria and Beeaiah in Bihar.According to the railway zone, the special trains will run as long as required.“Shramik special trains will continue to run till such time there is requirement,” said the official.The special trains are being run following the Ministry of Home Affairs’ permission for the movement of stranded migrant labourers, workers, students, tourists and others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/9-special-karnataka-trains-ferry-13-119-migrants-home/story-Jaqttq7aBC4yetwa1eFVZK.html
20-05-2020||Lucknow||UP govt’s austerity measures: Curbs on official travel, no new vehicles||The Uttar Pradesh government has decided on a number of austerity and financial management measures for government departments and officers in view of Covid-19.The government has asked its departments not to buy any new vehicles and cut official travel by holding video-conference instead. If at all, travel is necessary, the officials have been asked to fly only economy class. The government has banned business and executive class travel for its officers in the current fiscal.Additional chief secretary, finance, Sanjeev Mittal issued an order to this effect on Monday. He marked the order, ‘Austerity measures and financial management in the circumstances that have emerged because of Covid-19 pandemic’, to all the additional chief secretaries, principal secretaries, secretaries and heads of departments in the state.“Under any circumstances, do not use hotels in the current fiscal for conferences, seminars, meetings. Use only government buildings and premises for such events,” said Mittal’s order.Departments have been asked not to buy any new vehicles. In such cases where old vehicles are rendered out of service, they are to be replaced by outsourced ones. Mittal also asked officials to curtail the cost incurred on fuel and maintenance. The government will now not allow any new appointment of support staff advisors, chairpersons and members in various departments.“Either use the surplus staff as support staff or outsource them if essential,” said Mittal.“Now under the new work culture and information technology, several jobs are obsolete. Abolish those posts, identify those working on such posts and deploy them elsewhere. The departments should not have any new appointments,” he said.The government has also instructed the departments not to initiate any new construction work that is not necessary now. However, construction that was initiated earlier may be completed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-govt-s-austerity-measures-curbs-on-official-travel-no-new-vehicles/story-ma9v98jqyWUi46q8ZGUMgP.html
20-05-2020||Chandigarh||CPI(M) demands Himachal govt provide relief package to all sectors||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) on Wednesday demanded that the state government immediately provide a relief package to industries, tourism, transport, commercial enterprises and all others who have been affected by the Covid-19 crisis.They have also demanded that the state prepare an exit plan, keeping all security measures in the mind, to get out of lockdown/curfew imposed to prevent the coronavirus from spreading.CPI (M) has demanded that people involved in industry, tourism, transport and other commercial activities should be granted exemption from all taxes, permit fees and shop rent for at least six months. “Provide Rs 7,500 and 10kg ration to all workers and all those struggling during this economic crisis. Ensure payment of salaries during lockdown/curfew to all workers and 70% of it should be paid by government. Property tax, garbage collection fees and other taxes in urban areas should be waived off for at least six months, school fee should also be waived,” said CPI(M) leaders.CPI(M) leader Sanjay Chauhan said almost two months have gone since the lockdown was imposed and all businesses and workers are reeling under a severe economic and financial crisis. ”If the state government does not provide a timely relief package, it will be a challenge to keep businesses economically viable,” Chauhan said.“This economic package and a concrete strategy to get out of lockdown/curfew is necessary to rejuvenate the sinking economy,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cpi-m-demands-himachal-govt-provide-relief-package-to-all-sectors/story-Chkcofy65zSTqnaST1xiNJ.html
20-05-2020||Lucknow||UP Dy CM Dinesh Sharma accuses Congress of playing politics in times of crisis||Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Dinesh Sharma on Wednesday accused the Congress of playing politics at a time of intense crisis, saying this has never been done before by a major political party.“There are no buses of the Congress party. These buses belong to the Rajasthan government. When the list of buses submitted by the Congress was analysed, it was found that around 460 vehicles are fake. Doing politics in times of such an intense crisis was never ever done by a major political party before,” he told reporters here.The deputy CM claimed nearly 300 vehicles mentioned in the list were unfit to ply on roads.“First they gave a list, then in the list there were buses of a state government, and of those, around 460 were found to be fake. Around 297 buses are virtually junk and unfit to ply on roads,” he said.“Should we ply the unfit buses and put the lives of the migrant labourers at risk? There are 98 three-wheelers, cars and ambulances in the list. Around 68 vehicles in the list do not have proper papers,” Sharma added.He also asked how the resources of a state government could be utilised by a political party.“Can any political party use the buses of the Rajasthan State Roadways Transport Corporation as its own? How can the resources of a state government be utilised by a political party? On what basis are these buses being run,” the dy CM asked.“Here, I want to ask them why Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot did not feel sad when our children were crying in Kota (the coaching hub) as they were not getting food, water and treatment? Where had his buses gone then,” Sharma said.At that time, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath issued orders to run over 600 buses to bring back the students to UP and send them to their homes, and Gehlot was compelled to praise the UP CM, Sharma said.He said the action of the Congress was a political stunt aimed at deriving some mileage.“If it (Congress) wants to help the migrant labourers of UP in other states, then they should send buses to Rajasthan, Punjab and Maharashtra, as people are being exploited. Why did it not send buses to Punjab and Maharashtra,” he asked.The deputy chief minister said around 1,000 trains were made available to UP at the request of the chief minister, and more than 10 lakh migrant labourers have been brought back to the state by trains. Around 6.50 lakh migrants came in buses, he said, adding that over 27,000 buses had been pressed into action by the state government.“The Congress has duped the migrant labourers and kept the UP government in the dark. It should tender an apology for providing a wrong list of buses and wasting the time of the government. They also conspired to put the lives of the migrant labourers at risk and hence, tender an apology to the labourers. Are these Transport Department buses the private property of the Congress party? The resources of a state government cannot be used for a political party,” Sharma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-dy-cm-dinesh-sharma-accuses-congress-of-playing-politics-in-times-of-crisis/story-ZQJNxPE6qfaY9yWoDdEV2O.html
20-05-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Missing Covid-19 patients cause for concern for BMC||Even as Mumbai’s Covid-19 count witnesses a significant rise with each passing day, missing coronavirus patients are proving to be a major cause for concern for the city’s civic body, which has adopted all possible means to trace them.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThis was a common occurrence in cases where people experience mild symptoms of the infection or are asymptomatic and undergo testing in private labs, an official from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation said.“When people who get tested don’t furnish their correct contact details like address or phone number, we have to go looking for them after they test positive for the infection. Even testing labs make mistakes while entering contact details of the patients,” the official said.For the civic body, which is already burdened with the arduous task of containing the pandemic, untraceable patients are a major concern, as they can worsen the situation.Mumbai reported its first case of coronavirus on March 11 and as of Tuesday, the city has recorded over 22,700 cases.According to a senior civic official, the BMC adopts all possible means to track down these missing patients from searching for their names on voter’s list or tracing them using property card records.Once they are found, these patients were admitted to the BMC’s Covid-19 facilities, depending on their health condition, asymptomatic or otherwise, he said.“We have to rifle through property card records or voters lists and even take the help of local representatives to trace missing patients,” the official said.In some cases, the civic body even had to check the CCTV footage from private testing labs where these missing patients had been tested, he added.Most of these untraceable patients were from slum- dominated areas, where people have some fears and misconceptions about testing positive, which prompt them to furnish fake details to avoid hospitalisation, the official added. PTI KK ARU ARU||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-missing-covid-19-patients-cause-for-concern-for-bmc/story-fzDU6JI5Qz9ioHpDJtDCNL.html
20-05-2020||Delhi||Covid death toll in Delhi mounts to 176; cases cross 11,000-mark||The Covid-19 death toll in Delhi has climbed to 176, while 534 fresh cases of the infection reported on Wednesday, the highest single-day spike so far, took the total in the city over the 11,000-mark, authorities said.The previous highest spike in fresh cases -- 500 -- was recorded on May 19.In a bulletin issued on Wednesday, the Delhi Health Department said the death toll from the coronavirus infection has risen to 176, and the total number of cases mounted to 11,088.It, however, added the cumulative death figure refers to fatalities where the primary cause of death was found to be COVID-19, as per the report of the Death Audit Committee on the basis of case sheets received from various hospitals.On Tuesday, the total number of cases stood at 10,554, including 166 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-death-toll-in-delhi-mounts-to-176-cases-cross-11-000-mark/story-EZ1hK40peefe9AowYrcE3L.html
20-05-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt issues revised guidelines for lockdown 4.0||Maharashtra government on Tuesday issued revised guidelines to be followed in the state during phase four of the lockdown till May 31. E-commerce activity for essential as well as non-essential items and material are permitted in red zones. All industrial units/construction sites are permitted to operate in the red zones.The following activities will continue to remain prohibited across the state:1. All domestic and international air travel of passengers, except for domestic medical services, domestic air ambulance and for security purposes or purposes as permitted by the MHA.2. Metro rail services, schools, colleges, educational training, coaching institutions etc. shall remain closed.3. Hotels, restaurants and other hospitality services except those meant for housing health/ police/ Govt officials/ healthcare workers/ stranded persons including tourists and for quarantine facilities and running canteens at bus depots, railway stations and airports. Restaurants shall be permitted to operate kitchens for home delivery of food items.4. All social/ political/ sports/ entertainment/ academic/ cultural/ religious functions/ other gatherings and large congregations.5. All cinema halls, shopping malls, gyms, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars and auditoriums, assembly halls and similar places.Under the revised guidelines, the government has allowed sports complexes, stadiums and other public open spaces to open for individual exercises in non-red zones.The government said the shops/malls/establishments/industries, which are not allowed to open in red zones, will be permitted to remain open, from 9 am to 5 pm only for the purposes of upkeep and maintenance of material/plant and machinery/furniture, etc. and for pre-monsoon protection activities of property and goods. “No permission for taxis, rickshaws, cabs in red zones,” the statement added.Liquor shops will continue to operate if permitted, home delivery, or otherwise in red zones. However, all private offices will remain shut. Intra-district bus service with maximum 50 per cent capacity allowed in non-red zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-govt-issues-revised-guidelines-for-lockdown-4-0/story-efSXk7BfLc2Tm38ffrrVcL.html
20-05-2020||Jaipur||ASI arrested for molesting 23-year-old woman in Rajasthan||An assistant sub-inspector of the Rajasthan Police was arrested for allegedly molesting a 23-year-old woman in Alwar district of the state, officials said on Wednesday. The woman, who works in a company in Neemrana in Bhiwadi, had gone to file a complaint at the Neemrana police station after being referred there by a police chowki, they said. After registering the complaint, chowki in-charge Surendra Singh, an ASI aged around 45 years, took the woman in his vehicle on the pretext of dropping her to her place, the officials said. Instead, Singh took her to the Japanese industrial zone in Neemrana and allegedly molested her there, they said. “She lodged a complaint of molestation against the ASI on May 17. Her statement was recorded and the accused was arrested on Tuesday,” Superintendent of Police, Bhiwadi, Amandeep Singh Kapoor said. Station House Officer, Neemrana police station, Sanjay Sharma said the woman had sought help for ration which was arranged. “She was running out of ration and claimed that the company has not given her salary. I got her ration. A few days later, she again contacted me saying that she was not in a position to pay rent for accommodation and she was being pressured for it. “To this, I asked her to file a complaint and since the matter was related to chowki, I referred the matter to its in-charge,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/asi-arrested-for-molesting-23-year-old-woman-in-rajasthan/story-nDBgSlMldvM01l4jXpU27L.html
20-05-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal to empower rural women through Mukhya Mantri 1 Bigha Scheme||To boost the rural economy, which has faced a setback due to the coronavirus pandemic, Himachal Pradesh will empower 1.5 lakh rural women by helping them be self sufficient and get employment under MGNREGS.Around 5,000 self-help groups will reach out to 80% rural households that possess some land as part of the Mukhya Mantri 1 Bigha Scheme, which be launched by chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Thursday.Rural development and Panchayati Raj special secretary Lalit Jain said, ”The scheme is linked with the Centre’s Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) where a woman or her family owning up to one bigha land can grow a backyard kitchen garden.”WOMEN TO BE TRAINED Under the scheme each beneficiary will be entitled to get employment under MGNREGS, women will be trained, grants will be granted to level hill land, channelise water, set up a vermicompost pit and purchase saplings and seeds.“We are advocating multiple cropping to maximise profits, minimise risk and stabilise incomes,” said Jain, the brain behind the scheme.“Not everyone wants to do labour-intensive work. Therefore, initially, 1.5 lakh women from each household have agreed to get associated with this scheme, which will not only ensure nutritional security for the family but also generate additional income,” he said.EACH WOMAN TO GET RS 1 LAKH CASH INCENTIVE As per estimates, each woman is expected to get an annual cash incentive of Rs 1 lakh under MGNREGS, which includes a per day wage of Rs 198.“After every 15 days, the women’s wages will be transferred to their Aadhar-linked bank account,” Jain said.The government’s task force, the Gram Rozgar Sewaks, which will monitor the beneficiaries.Each beneficiary is entitled to claim reimbursements for purchased seasonal vegetable seeds and fruit tree saplings as advised by the agriculture and horticulture departments.GRANTS FOR VERMICOMPOST, IRRIGATIONFor development of land and setting up irrigation channels, the beneficiaries will get a grant up to Rs 40,000 and for setting a concrete vermicompost pit they will be given Rs 10,000. This money will be provided under MGNREGS.Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said amid the battle to contain the coronavirus, the government is focusing on the revival of economic activity in rural areas as the state is predominantly governed by agriculture activities.The Mukhya Mantri 1 Bigha Scheme will not only help enhance their skills but also cushion the impact of the pandemic, he said.“This will turn out to be a win-win situation for rural women empowerment. On one hand it will help enhancing incomes and skills, on the other they will manage to develop their assets permanently,” said Thakur.As per the Economic Survey 2019-20, 181.74 lakh days were generated under the MGNREGS by providing employment to 447,773 households in the state.The state has a network of 2,191 bank branches and more than 77%branches are in rural areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-to-empower-rural-women-through-mukhya-mantri-1-bigha-scheme/story-aV4sIvAHdEb0pHxQcz7J6M.html
20-05-2020||Pune||Lockdown 4.0: Pune opens up partially, shopkeepers rue absence of employees||Wednesday morning began with a new hope for the shopkeepers on Laxmi Road, one of the oldest market places in Pune, during the fourth phase of Covid-19 lockdown which allowed resumption of a large number of economic activities.As per the new directives issued by Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad on Tuesday, public transport, cabs, autorickshaws, malls, salons, restaurants and cafes are not allowed to function in Pune which is a Covid-19 red zone.According to the directives, establishments selling electronics, computers, mobiles, clothes, hardware, stationery, laundry services, home appliances and offering tailoring services can be opened on certain days of the week. Masks are mandatory in public places and shops have to close for business after 7 pm. Housemaids have been allowed to resume duty in non-containment areas.A large number of shutters went up and shops opened up after remaining closed for more than two months. Laxmi Road, Bajirao Road, Tilak Road and J M Road were among the prominent shopping area in west Pune which were slowly limping back to life on Wednesday.As of Tuesday, Pune registered 3,747 Covid-19 positive cases and 207 deaths. The number of micro-containment zones in the city was reduced from 69 to 45. However, 19 new areas were added to this list ahead of lockdown 4.0.Dhiraj Parmar, proprietor of D K Traders, a clothes shop on Laxmi Road said, “Today after almost 60 days we are opening our shop. We are doing the cleaning and checking of stocks. We will ensure proper social distancing. Our main problem is the absence of our employees who have gone back to their villages.”Mahendra Bora, a cloth merchant said business had been hit badly. “We have given salaries to our staff, most of who have gone back to their states and are not willing to come back this year. It is going to be difficult for us to run our shop without them,” he said.Yogendra Ashtekar, owner of Yogendra Ashtekar Jewellers on Laxmi Road said he was opening his shop after 65 days. He said apart from following all the guidelines, they were ensuring “footwear sanitisation” of every customer along with hand sanitisation, he said.More relaxations have been offered in the neighbouring industrial town of Pimpri-Chinchwad. Most commercial establishments and industries in rural and urban area, private construction sites, private offices, government offices, IT companies, courier and postal services and home delivery of food in non-red zones were allowed to open.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/lockdown-4-0-pune-opens-up-partially-shopkeepers-rue-absence-of-employees/story-ZKw237v3t77HZ7nujrXPoL.html
20-05-2020||Kolkata||Unhappy over deployment in containment zones, 500 Kolkata cops stage protest||Around 500 personnel of the Kolkata Police Combat Force staged a protest here, alleging that they were being deployed in areas where chances of contracting Covid-19 are high, a senior official said on Wednesday.The policemen demonstrated inside the Police Training School (PTS) complex on Acharya Jagadish Chandra Bose Road late on Tuesday, he said.Sources said they gheraoed the vehicle of Deputy Commissioner of Police, Combat Battalion, Col Nevendera Singh Paul when he tried to initiate a dialogue with them, and allegedly vandalised his vehicle.“We are being sent on duty in high-risk areas. There are several policemen who have been infected with the virus.This cannot go on,” a police officer of the Combat Force told PTI.When contacted, a senior police officer of Kolkata Police said an investigation has been launched to ascertain the facts.“An investigation is underway. There can be disappointment among the policemen regarding the duty schedule, but no acts of indiscipline will not be tolerated...,” he said.Earlier in the day, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had visited the complex and assured the agitating police personnel of looking into their demands.At least seven policemen have so far been infected by COVID-19 in West Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/unhappy-over-deployment-in-containment-zones-500-kolkata-cops-stage-protest/story-kklUweBntkDqcdLFbz0z2O.html
20-05-2020||Bangalore||63 Covid-19 cases reported in Karnataka, tally touches 1,458||As many as sixty three new Covid-19 cases have been confirmed in Karnataka, taking the total number of infections in the state to 1,458, the health department said on Wednesday.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage With 40 deaths and 553 discharges, there are 864 active coronavirus cases in the state, the department said in its mid-day situation update.Ten patients who have recovered, have been discharged so far on Wednesday, it said.The fresh cases, which were confirmed from last evening to this noon include- 21 from Hassan, Bidar-10, Mandya-8, Kalburagi- 7, Udupi- 6, Tuamakuru and Bengaluru urban- 4, and one each from Yadgir, Dakshina Kannada and Uttara Kannada.However, the department has not shared the details of patients newly tested positive like- age, gender, their travel or contact history- in its mid-day bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/63-covid-19-cases-reported-in-karnataka-tally-touches-1-458/story-d4gfbKViufi7iDZz7Lk64O.html
20-05-2020||Pune||Pune opens up partially on first day of Lockdown 4.0||Wednesday morning began with a new hope for the shopkeepers on Laxmi Road, one of the oldest market places in Pune, as the city embarked on Covid-19 lockdown 4.0 allowing resumption of a large number of economic activities.As per the new directives issued by Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad on Tuesday, public transport, cabs, autos, malls, saloons, restaurants and cafes are not allowed to function in Pune city which is part of a red zone district. Establishments selling electronics, computers, mobiles, clothes, hardware, tailoring services, stationery, laundry services, home appliances and other goods, can be opened on certain days of the week. Masks are mandatory in public places and shops have to close for business after 7 pm. Housemaids have been allowed to resume duty in non-containment areas. With these new guidelines, a large number of shutters went up and shops opened-up after remaining closed for more than two months. Laxmi Road, Bajirao Road, Tilak Road and J M Road were among the prominent shopping area in west Pune which were slowly limping back to life on Wednesday. As of Tuesday, Pune registered 207 deaths due to Covid-19 and 3,747 positive cases. The number of micro-containment zones in the city was reduced from 69 to 45 even as 19 new areas were added to this list in preparation for lockdown 4.0.Dhiraj Parmar, proprietor of D K Traders, a clothes shop on Laxmi Road said, “Today after almost 60 days we are opening our shop. We are doing the cleaning and checking of stocks. We will ensure proper social distancing. Our main problem is the absence of our employees who have gone back to their villages.”Mahendra Bora, a cloth merchant said business had been hit badly. “We have given salaries to our staff, most of who have gone back to their states and are not willing to come back this year. It is going to be difficult for us to run our shop without them,” he said. Yogendra Ashtekar, owner of Yogendra Ashtekar Jewellers on Laxmi Road said he was opening his shop after 65 days. He said apart from following all the guidelines, they were ensuring “footwear sanitisation” of every customer along with hand sanitisation, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-opens-up-partially-on-first-day-of-lockdown-4-0/story-XjhmKtmjPAIUfNyCUhqBYK.html
20-05-2020||Jaipur||61 new cases of Covid-19 in Rajasthan, state tally nears 6,000-mark||Rajasthan on Wednesday recorded 61 new cases of coronavirus, officials said.The number of cases in the state now stands at 5,906 and fatalities at 143.“As many as 61 fresh cases were reported in 10 districts of the state,” additional chief secretary (health), Rohit Kumar Singh, said. Of the 61 fresh cases, Nagaur recorded 17 cases followed by 11 in Dungarpur, eight each in Jhunjhunu and Sikar, six in Kota, four in Sirohi, three in Udaipur, two in Jaipur and one each in Jhalawar and Baran districts.  A total 3,354 patients have recovered and 2,929 have been discharged. There are 2,409 active cases in the state, the officials said.Entire state is under lockdown since March 22 and massive screening and search is underway to trace the contagion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/61-new-cases-of-covid-19-in-rajasthan-state-tally-nears-6-000-mark/story-4X3b15G5ZHb8nvJVHuZJSP.html
20-05-2020||Chandigarh||12 Mumbai returnees among 18 test positive for Covid-19, take Himachal’s corona count to 110||Eighteen people, including 12 who returned to Kangra and Kullu districts from Mumbai by a special train on May 18, tested positive for coronavirus in Himachal Pradesh on Wednesday, taking the state’s count to 110.With this, the total number of active cases in the state has gone up to 53, according to special secretary, health, Nipun Jindal.Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said a 56-year-old woman from Jheol village near Dharamshala town and her son and daughter-in-law, aged 31 and 25 years, tested positive for Covid-19. Another family, comprising a 41-year-old man from Sari Molag in Jaisinghpur sub-division, his 34-year-old wife and 11-year-old daughter, tested positive. Apart from them, a 43-year-old woman and an eight-year-old girl from Lambagaon in Jaisinghpur subdivision and a 54-year-old man from Bhawarna and a 31-year-old man from Jawalmukhi were found infected.“All of them arrived in Himachal Pradesh from Mumbai in a special train on May 18 and were under institutional quarantine at Radha Soami Satsang Beas’ Parour complex near Palampur,” Prajapati said.The patients have been shifted to a dedicated Covid-care centre set up at Panchayati Raj Training Institute (PRTI), Baijnath.Two more patients tested positive in Kangra late in the evening. One of them is a 41-year-old man from Bajot village of Jaisinghpur sub-division who returned from Chennai on May 18. He was under institutional quarantine at Jwalamukhi. The other patient is a 55-year-old taxi driver from Khera. He had returned from Delhi and was in institutional quarantine at Dhaliara.FOUR CASES IN MANDIFour more people from Mandi tested positive for the virus. Among these, two are women, aged 63 and 70. Besides, two men, aged 23 and 32 have also tested positive. Their travel history is being traced.FIRST CASE IN KULLU DISTRICTKullu district got its first Covid-19 case on Wednesday as a 23-year-old man from Aani sub-division tested positive for coronavirus.He was among the 10 people from the district who travelled from Mumbai in a special train on May 18. He was under institutional quarantine at the District Ayurvedic Hospital along with others, Kullu deputy commissioner Richa Verma said.The driver and conductor of the bus, in which the patient travelled from Una to Kullu, have also been quarantined and their samples have been sent for testing. Contact mapping is being done.MAY SEES A SPIKEHimachal Pradesh has seen a spurt in Covid-19 cases since May 4, with a total of 70 people testing positive.Two people have died due to the virus during the period.Thirty-one cases have been reported over the past one week.Wednesday’s spurt was also the biggest single-day spike in the state. Earlier, on Monday, 10 people tested positive for the virus.Till date, the state has 110 Covid-19 cases.Kangra is the worst hit district with 35 cases followed by Una with 19 cases and Hamirpur with 15 cases.Thirteen cases have been reported in Chamba district, nine in Solan, seven in Bilaspur, six in Mandi, four in Sirmaur and one each in Shimla and Kullu.A total of 50 people have been cured of the virus in the state, including 14 people over the week.So far, 21,147 people have been tested for Covid-19 in the state, while more than 23,000 are under active surveillance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/12-mumbai-returnees-test-positive-for-covid-19-take-himachal-s-corona-count-to-104/story-GPwtvNaGo9BLnURFJ3XC0M.html
20-05-2020||Lucknow||Unauthorised trucks come to rescue of migrants again||Days after the state government ordered to seal the Lucknow borders to prevent migrant labourers from travelling to their home on foot or unauthorised vehicles, a large number of labourers were seen within city limits stuffed in trucks and other vehicles and moving towards east UP districts and Bihar.People said migrants hopped on trucks and other vehicles as the administration failed to arrange adequate number of buses and trains on time.The district administration, meanwhile, claimed it dispatched nearly 17,000 migrant labourers in two days on 450 buses.“On Sunday and Monday, some migrant labourers who wanted to go to Bihar were dispatched in buses till Gorakhpur. Those bound to Jammu and Laddakh were dispatched in buses till Jammu,” said additional district magistrate (ADM), city east, KP Singh.Migrant labourers who want to go to Chhattisgarh are waiting for the arrangement.“We are waiting for vehicles. The administration says trains will start soon,” said Sandeep Kumar of Bilaspur in Chhattisgarh.After police sealed all entry points of Lucknow on Saturday night, the movement of migrant labourers was halted.Migrants from all entry points were taken to Shakuntala Mishra university campus.By Monday, the strictness was eased and migrants were seen hopping onto trucks at different points of UP.This, even when chief minister Yogi Adityanath had directed officials to arrange for private buses.In Lucknow, around 25 private buses were dispatched on Monday while more than 100 on Sunday, said an official.Neeraj Kumar of Bihar’s Motihari district said, “We started from Bengaluru around 6 days ago. Our truck was stopped at Jhansi on Sunday morning but allowed to move today morning.” Kumar added, “If the government had not stopped us yesterday, would have been reached home by now. We have crossed more than half of the way. What is the point of stopping us now? We exhausted the entire savings to reach here,” said Lallan Yadav, a Motihari youth who worked as a labourer in Bengaluru.Two trucks ferrying over 100 Motihari-bound migrant labourers stopped near Kamta bypass after seeing people distributing water bottles and food packets.“We were told that buses will be arranged but nothing happened. They (authorities) just wasted our time,” said a migrant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/unauthorised-trucks-come-to-rescue-of-migrants-again/story-MlBpO58fpy6p11qJWX5k5O.html
20-05-2020||Chandigarh||12 houses damaged in fire between militants, security forces in Srinagar||At least 12 houses were damaged in a fire during the gunfight between militants and the security forces in the Nawa Kadal area of Old City in Srinagar on Tuesday.Nawa Kadal, like most of the Old City, is highly congested with cheek by jowl houses mostly made of bricks and wood.Locals and eyewitnesses said that around 12 houses were damaged in the fire that erupted after several blasts and exchange of fire between militants and security forces during the encounter.Some locals even alleged that they found their houses ransacked and many of their valuables missing after they returned to their homes when the encounter had ended. “When we came back we found our lockers were broken and cash, gold items and gas cylinders stolen. All our belongings have been ransacked,” said Bilal Ahmad, a local.Calls to Kashmir Inspector General of Police, Vijay Kumar and Srinagar SSP, Haseeb Mughal went unanswered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/12-houses-damaged-in-fire-between-militants-security-forces-in-srinagar/story-qZ2qTtaIHHtELhbU0AnQkN.html
20-05-2020||Lucknow||July exam schedule: AKTU to pay Rs 5L for every Covid-19-related staff death||The Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University (AKTU) decided on Tuesday that if an employee dies of coronavirus infection during the examination period proposed in July, the university will pay the next of kin Rs 5 lakh from the Employees’ Welfare Fund as financial help. The students, however, will not be covered under this as they benefit from the Student Welfare Fund of the university, an official said. However, it will be compulsory for all students appearing in the exams to download the Arogya Setu App.The decision was taken at the examination committee meeting conducted through video-conferencing under the chairmanship of university vice-chancellor Vinay Kumar Pathak.The committee also decided that if any student or employee is diagnosed coronavirus positive during the examination, then the entire cost of treatment will be borne by the University’s Student Welfare and Employee Welfare Fund.The university has made internet protocol-based CCTV cameras mandatory for the examination centres. It was also decided that no student will be detained on the basis of attendance.In connection with the examination, the committee resolved that if the institutes open after June 30, depending on the status of the lockdown, then the examinations will be conducted as per the proposed schedule from July 6, Pathak said. “If the lockdown does not open even after June 30, a proper decision will be taken by the vice chancellor of the university,” an official said.It was decided that viva voce examination of MTech / MPharm / MARK / BTech will be conducted through video-conferencing.Keeping in view the lockdown, A-category institutions will be made self centres. The number of such centres may be around 50. There will be no self centre arrangement for B and C-category institutions. Additional observers will be deployed in these institutions and the examination will be monitored through web-streaming.Students’ attendance will be recorded through the face recognition system.Additional sanitary assistance will be provided by the university to sanitize each examination centre. It is mandatory to ensure the provision of oxygen cylinders including physician, first aid at every examination centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/july-exam-schedule-aktu-to-pay-rs-5l-for-every-covid-19-related-staff-death/story-hobTwyITWcxTtZp0PUOlTK.html
20-05-2020||Jaipur||Lockdown, financial crunch prolongs Afghan students’ return home from Kota||Over the past few weeks, even as hundreds of students studying in coaching institutes in Rajasthan’s Kota have returned to their states during the nationwide lockdown, the wait is getting longer for over a dozen students from Afghanistan of a private university in the city.These students are still stranded in India due to the lockdown imposed in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak and financial crunch. Many have been unable to board the special flights being organised by the Afghanistan government for its citizens. The Afghan embassy in India is providing information about these paid flights and the next ones out of New Delhi are scheduled for May 21 and 23.Twenty three-year-old Kabul resident Saedullah is BA first year student of English Literature at Kota’s Career Point University. He is among the Afghan students trying to return home. “We approached the district administration of Kota for facilitating our return to Afghanistan and. But we cannot travel to Delhi (to board flight for Afghanistan) on train since we do not have Aadhaar cards. So, the administration told us to go to Delhi through car or taxi”, he said.But owing to the high cab fares which most Afghan students cannot afford and fund crunch as banks in Afghanistan are closed due to lockdown, they are forced to stay in India, he said.“If we had got permission to go to Delhi on train, then we could have booked special flights on May 21 and 23. But now we have learnt that there aren’t any seats left, so we have dropped the idea to return to our home country for the time being”, he said.“The Afghanistation ambassador has shared a message on the official portal that efforts are being made for additional flights in the first week of June, so we will try to board those special flights then”, he added. 📢Important announcement: We are facilitating 1 special flight from #Pune to #Kabul on 22nd of May & 2 flights from Delhi to Kabul on May 21st & 23rd to help those students wishing to get back home. Another flight taking off Delhi to Kabul today. Contact airlines for arrangements pic.twitter.com/zqPhtlPx14Another Afghan student, 20-year-old Shahgul Yakub, pursuing a BA degree, is also disappointed at not being able to go back home.“I am disappointed that we are not able to return to our homes due to lack of seats in special flights to Afghanistan. We want to go to our homes but unfortunately the situation is such that we are not able to return to our homes”, she said.Yakub said that there are around two dozen Afghan students in Kota and many among them do not want to return home right now as they will have to again come back to Kota to continue their studies.When asked about the issue of Afghan students, Kota District Collector Om Kasera said that as per rules, only Indian citizens are allowed to travel in trains.“We have allowed Afghan students to leave for Delhi through car or taxi but they cannot be sent through trains due to norms as only Indian citizens are allowed to travel in the trains”.However, Kasera said “If they do not want to travel in car or taxi, we can send them to Delhi through buses”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/lockdown-financial-crunch-prolongs-afghan-students-return-home-from-kota/story-fDHkJmRCf8PF1ZPU2pPJ8J.html
20-05-2020||Lucknow||Now, UP Board evaluation begins in Covid-19 red zones||The much awaited evaluation of UP Board’s high school and intermediate examination answer sheets began at evaluation centres on Tuesday in 19 districts of the state designated red zones.To make this possible, the board had to change 10 evaluation centres in Covid-19 hotspots of different districts. These included six centres in Kanpur and one centre each in Noida, Firozabad, Moradabad and Aligarh, said board officials.As no proposal was received to change any evaluation centre in Agra, Varanasi and other sensitive districts with high number of coronavirus cases, it was assumed that in these districts there were no evaluation centres in red zones, they added.The board also increased the number of centres in Lucknow from four to nine to ensure proper social distancing, the officials said.UP Board secretary Neena Srivastava said that evaluation of high school and intermediate examination answer-sheets started at evaluation centres in green zones on May 5 and in orange zones on May 12 and the process was smoothly underway.“As per our information, evaluation process at four centres in 20 districts in green zone and two in orange zone has been duly completed. District wise, evaluation process has been completed in 10 districts in green zone on May 18, including Siddharth Nagar, Kushinagar, Shahjahanpur, Hathras, Lakhimpur Kheri, Kanpur Dehat, Farrukhabad, Mahoba, Lalitpurand Chitrakoot,” she said.“As a result, evaluation of 1,45,86,230 answer-sheets was completed by May 18 evening, out of which 55,18,843 answer-sheets were evaluated in the green zone and 90,67,387 answersheets in the orange zone. In green zone 96% of evaluation work was over while in orange zone 68% of work was completed by May 18,” said the UP Board secretary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/now-up-board-evaluation-begins-in-covid-19-red-zones/story-EuOqQElEXWoVRxsoYdArzL.html
20-05-2020||Lucknow||‘Efforts on to hire jobless migrant workers for DFC project’||At a time when lockdown has rendered umpteen migrant workers jobless, officials of dedicated freight corridor (DFC) project are making efforts to provide them work. Owing to massive demand of workers, DFC authorities have written to district magistrates of several districts across nine states, including UP, to hold back the migrant labourers and send them to DFC so that the migrant labours could be trained and provided work.“These workers can look forward to receiving a fast-paced training and get hired for laying railway tracks in different sections of DFC as per need. Efforts in this regard have been initiated by officials of both eastern and western DFCs of the country at their respective locations, including between Dankuni in West Bengal and Ludhiana in Punjab, falling under eastern DFC,” said eastern DFC’s chief public relations officer (CPRO) Ved Prakash.He further said the ongoing work had stopped in various sections during to the first phase of the lockdown and then was re-started when the government issued fresh norms subsequently.“We require a large number of workers for the DFC work and want to absorb a chunk of migrant factory workers made jobless during the lockdown and now heading to their native homes in hordes,” he added.The union ministry of railways, under the Centre’s direction, has taken up the DFC project involving construction of six freight corridors traversing the entire country to provide a safe and efficient freight transportation system.Initially, the construction of two freight corridors, the western DFC connecting the states of Haryana and Maharashtra and the eastern DFC connecting Punjab and West Bengal, is being undertaken. The combined length of the western and eastern DFCs is approximately 2,843 km to be readied at an estimated cost of $11.38 billion. The aim is to make them fully operational by 2021.The other four proposed corridors include North-South (Delhi-Tamil Nadu), East-West (West Bengal-Maharashtra), East-South (West Bengal-Andhra Pradesh) and South-South (Tamil Nadu-Goa). However, these are still in the planning stage.In 2006, the Government of India established a dedicated body to implement the project, called the Dedicated Freight Corridor Corporation of India (DFCCIL), which began building the eastern and western corridors simultaneously in three phases.The DFC project is expected to reduce congestion at various terminals and junctions. It will also allow efficient and fast movement of freight along the corridor, share officials.The eastern DFC plan covering Punjab, Haryana, UP, Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal includes construction of 104 bridges, 368 road-over-bridges (ROBs), 189 road-under-bridges (RUBs) and 21 flyovers. It also includes the reconstruction of nine existing ROBs and the extension of ten existing RUBs.The western DFC plan covering Haryana, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Maharashtra and UP includes a 4 km-long tunnel, 262 bridges, 33 flyovers, 505 ROBs and 200 RUBs. The western corridor also includes the reconstruction of 24 existing ROBs and lengthening 10 existing RUBs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/efforts-on-to-hire-jobless-migrant-workers-for-dfc-project/story-TLQTIEGyboyZ3X7OlTDRtI.html
20-05-2020||Chandigarh||35-year-old vegetable vendor stabbed to death in Ludhiana||A 35-year-old vegetable vendor was stabbed to death by unidentified snatchers in Chander Nagar on Wednesday morning.The victim has been identified as Ramu, a native of Unnao district of Uttar Pradesh, who resided in a rented accommodation in New Tagore Nagar. He is survived by his wife and three children.The incident took place around 5.30am when Ramu was on his way to the vegetable market. When he reached near Malhi Palace in Chander Nagar, unidentified persons reportedly stopped him and demanded cash. When Ramu resisted, they stabbed him with sharp-edged weapons and fled.As per the police, Ramu died on the spot. A passersby noticed the body lying on the road and informed the police, following which the body was taken to the civil hospital for postmortem.Sub-inspector Malkit Singh, Jagatpuri police post incharge said, “We are scanning the closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras in the area to identify the assaulters. As of now, there is no clue about the accused but we know that they came on a scooter. The two-wheeler number is also not clear as of now.”“The victim’s family said that he did not have any rivalry. He had left home early in the morning to buy vegetables from the market to further sell it door-to-door,” said the sub-inspector.A case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against unidentified persons at Haibowal police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/22-year-old-vegetable-vendor-stabbed-to-death-in-ludhiana/story-ocAQcRvm6GPxYQfXSS4kpN.html
20-05-2020||Lucknow||Akhilesh targets govt over ‘use’ of buses in ferrying migrants||Joining the ongoing ‘buses for migrants’ issue in the state, the Samajwadi Party (SP) national president Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday attacked the BJP government over the availability of buses for ferrying migrants to their homes. “People are finding it difficult to comprehend that when tens of thousands of government, private, and school buses are idling all over the state, why the state government is not using them to transport migrants to their homes. What kind of stubbornness is this? Using ‘Bal’ (force) [on migrants] in place of ‘Bus’ is improper,” he said in a tweet.On Monday within hours of the UP government’s green signal to the 1,000 buses request of Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, an Amethi MLA of Samajwadi Party (SP) had sought permission for 50 buses to transport Amethi’s migrant workers stranded in Delhi, Ghaziabad, Noida, and other districts. Gauriganj (Amethi) MLA Rakesh Pratap Singh wrote to chief minister Yogi Adityanath in this regard. However, Singh has himself not arranged any buses but has said he will pay whatever money is spent on transporting the migrants by 50 buses. He said the state government should help in bringing back Amethi’s migrant workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/akhilesh-targets-govt-over-use-of-buses-in-ferrying-migrants/story-dKnWJVwR441fqKrJqCTKNJ.html
20-05-2020||Chandigarh||Mobile recovered from Nabha jailbreak accused||A mobile was recovered from gangster Manvir Singh alias Mani Sekhon, an accused in the 2016 Nabha jailbreak, in a raid carried out by the police in the maximum security jail here on Tuesday.During the raid conducted by around 100 police personnel, under the supervision of Patiala superintendent of police (SP-traffic) Parminder Singh Cheema, the police also recovered another mobile hidden in the wall of a barrack in the jail.Cheema said that an FIR was lodged against Mani Sekhon and an unidentified inmate.He said police will interrogate Manvir after seeking his production warrant.Manvir, who is cousin of gangster Gurpreet Singh Sekhon, had stormed the jail, along with a dozen of his accomplices, in 2016, opened fire and succeeding in freeing Sekhon and five other gangsters and militants. Manvir and Sekhon were later arrested in 2017.Two weeks ago, two mobiles were recovered from gangster Rajiv Kumar alias Raja and Pushpinder Singh, both lodged in the same jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mobile-recovered-from-nabha-jailbreak-accused/story-O2p5SXxdclLUiVCcdj6VvM.html
20-05-2020||Ranchi||Covid-19 lockdown: Jharkhand govt increases VAT on liquor by 25%||The Jharkhand government has increased the Value-Added Tax (VAT) on liquor to 75 per cent across the state.According to a notification issued by the Commercial Taxes Department on Tuesday, the increase in VAT came into effect from the date of its issue i.e. May 19, 2020.The increase in VAT is applicable for all types of liquor including Indian-made Foreign Liquor (IMFL). The earlier rate of VAT on liquor in the state was 50 per cent.Chief Minister Hemant Soren had recently allowed liquor shops to reopen in the state, during the fourth phase of lockdown. Several other state governments have also allowed liquor shops to reopen and sale to begin amid the extended lockdown. Some, including Delhi, Haryana, among others, had also imposed a special ‘Corona fee’ on the sale of liquor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/covid-19-lockdown-jharkhand-govt-increases-vat-on-liquor-by-25/story-sRBGQj3zM73ItEZHP3YkmM.html
20-05-2020||Mumbai||Is Mumbai tracking New York’s Covid-19 trajectory? A data analysis||With cases of Covid-19 rising at an alarming rate in Mumbai in the past few weeks, questions emerge if it is headed on a trajectory not too different to what New York City followed as it became the pandemic hotbed in the United States.Both are the worst-hit cities in their respective countries.Here is a look at numbers to see if the spread of the Sars-CoV-2 virus in Mumbai can flare like it has in New York.Difference of demography Mumbai is roughly half the size of New York City and has more than 1.5 times the population, according to numbers by the 2011 census in India and 2010 census in the US. This means that on average, India’s financial capital has more than three times as many people living in every square kilometre compared to the Big Apple.Also crucial is the presence of ultra high population areas in Mumbai like Asia’s largest urban slum, Dharavi, which has seen 1,327 cases and 56 deaths due to Covid-19. All of this places Mumbai at a massive disadvantage as the congestion makes it far easier for the virus to spread.Spike vs gradual rise In absolute numbers, New York City has reported more than nine times the cases and 270 the number of deaths than Mumbai. For uniform comparison, the starting point is the first day each city reported over 50 cases. New York saw a very steep rise off the start and only 15 day in, it had a gap of nearly 15,000 cases over Mumbai. However, a drop in new cases towards the middle of March brought the NYC curve down.The trajectory followed by Mumbai is more even with a gradual increase of cases. However, unlike the drop seen in NYC’s curve, Mumbai’s remains rising at a steady rate.‘Flat’ vs ‘rising’ For our analysis, we have plotted a five-day average line over the daily new cases to how a clear trend. We see that while the trend line is rising rapidly in Mumbai in the last 60 days, in NYC, it appears to have weathered the worst of the storm. New cases in NYC are now consistently getting ;ower than the peak seena t the start of April.(Source: HT’s Covid-19 dashboard and Johns Hopkins University)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/is-mumbai-tracking-new-york-s-covid-19-trajectory-a-data-analysis/story-3H5Fg6gbNKcIGMEpSF6uTO.html
20-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s recovery rate from Covid-19 up at 45%: Data||The recovery rate of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients in Delhi, which has more than 10,000 infected people so far, has increased more than three times, according to data of the health department.Till Tuesday, 10,554 people were infected in Delhi and out of these 4,750 have recovered from the infection or 45% of those who contracted the highly-contagious disease have recovered. Click here for full Covid-19 casesA month ago till April 19, only 14.47% or 290 Covid-19 patients in Delhi had recovered. During this time, 2,003 cases of coronavirus disease were reported in the national capital.There has also been a six-fold increase in the number of tests in a month, while the cases increased only five times during this period. The testing increased from 24,387 to 145,854 in the last one month. During this period, there were 121,467 investigations or an increase of about six times.Delhi has the fourth-highest number of coronavirus disease cases after Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat. Health department data shows there were 500 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, the highest single-day spike so far, and 166 people have died so far. Delhi’s mortality rate or the number of deaths expressed as a percentage of cases at around 1.6% is much lower than the national average of 3.07%.The maximum Covid-19 cases are in Maharashtra, where the number of infections has crossed the 35,000-mark. This is followed by 11,760 cases in Tamil Nadu and Gujarat is in third place with 11,745 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-recovery-rate-from-covid-19-up-at-45-data/story-CPVNQ0BlZHtt2Pa7lETMtN.html
20-05-2020||City||27-year-old Ludhiana man found Covid positive after death||A 27-year-old man from Gagandeep Colony in Bhattian Bet, who died on May 15, was found positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday.The youth was brought to the Ludhiana civil hospital on May 15, but was declared dead during treatment. As per protocol, his samples were collected on May 16, and were later found positive for Covid-19.Meanwhile, a two-year-old girl from Mandeep Nagar in Choti Haibowal was also confirmed infected, taking the district count to 176.According to health authorities, she is the youngest Covid patient in Ludhiana.The child was rushed to Dayanand Medcial College and Hospital (DMCH) with acute abdominal pain three days ago. Doctors performed emergency intestinal surgery on her, following which her samples were sent for Covid testing.She tested positive on Monday evening. Acting promptly, DMCH authorities asked 35 employees, including, doctors and paramedical staff, to remain under home quarantine for 14 days.Deputy commissioner Pradeep Agrawal said the total number of patients in Ludhiana was 176, of which 125 had been cured and discharged, a recovery rate of 71%. Eight people have succumbed to the virusCivil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said now there were 43 active cases in the district.BORSTAL JAIL SUPERINTENDENT AMONG 139 CONTACTS TRACEDA day after six inmates of Borstal Jail were found positive for Covid-19, the jail authorities have traced their 139 contacts. They include 89 inmates and 50 jail staffers, including the jail superintendent, Kulwant Singh.These inmates were arrested by the Jalandhar and Hoshiarpur police and kept at the special Borstal Jail before being shifted to the central jail in Ludhiana.Kulwant said, “We have set up special Covid-19 barracks. Accused arrested from different districts are sent here. These six inmates had come to Ludhiana between April 20 and 26.”“We have traced their 139 contacts, out of which 89 are inmates, who were in same barracks with them,” the superintendent added.He said among these 89 contacts, as many as 39 inmates were out on bail. “We have written to the civil surgeon to trace these persons and quarantine them,” he said, adding that the entire staff cannot be quarantined, so they were conducting their screening and will isolate the staffers with symptoms.TWO POSITIVE MEN MISSINGThe health authorities have been unable to trace two men, aged 18 and 22, who had visited the flu corner at the civil hospital on May 16 with symptoms of flu. After they tested positive, health staff tried contacting them but found their details, including phone numbers, incorrect. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the men had stated that they lived in Prem Vihar Street No 1 and Shahi Bagh Colony Street No 11.FOUR TTEs QUARANTINEDAfter sending the entire Railway Protection Force (RPF) staff deployed at Ludhiana railway station under quarantine on May 18, the railway authorities on Tuesday asked four train ticket examiners (TTEs) to also isolate themselves as they had come in contact with RPF staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/27-year-old-ludhiana-man-found-covid-positive-after-death/story-CWUTtr6OnhjmPzk20ARcoM.html
20-05-2020||Chandigarh||Lockdown 4.0: Chandigarh’s Sector 17, other markets open to poor response||The markets in Chandigarh’s Sector 17 including those on Madhya Marg and in Sector 35 opened up on Tuesday for the first time since lockdown was declared in the city. However, the response remained lukewarm, with shopkeepers complaining that their goods had gotten damaged during the lockdown.The owner of Chandigarh Sports in Sector 17, Harkesh Kathuria, seen cleaning his shop at 11am, said, “The shop was covered in cobwebs and dust. The sales in my other shop at Sector 20 remained higher than that in Sector 17, with carrom boards and badminton rackets the most popular as people continued to spend time indoors.”Proprietor of Sindhi Sweets in Sector 17, Neeraj Bajaj, said, “We have used ultraviolet light to sanitise our sweets but sales remained below 10% of those on an average day. Many festival gift hampers left in the shop before lockdown have expired. Sector 17 was closed two days before the lockdown. We hardly got time to take all the perishables,” he said.Rats have also become a big problem in Sector 17, with some shopkeepers complaining that the wiring in their shops had been gnawed off by rodents. Sanjeev Chaddha, who sells leather products in the sector, said, “We had left the exhaust fans running during the lockdown, otherwise , rats and fungus would have eaten into our products.”Ajay Gulati, co-owner of Empire Stores, a grocery outlet, was greeted by expired stock of exotic fruits and vegetables when he had reopened. However, he said footfall had increased on Tuesday as compared to before.NO CUSTOMERS IN CONGESTED MARKETSWhile city’s congested markets like Shastri Market in Sector 22, Sadar Bazaar in Sector 19 and the motor markets of Sector 48 and Manimajra also opened for the first time since the lockdown on Tuesday, there was barely any footfall. President of Sadar Bazaar, Narinder Singh, said, “Shopkeepers had opened the booths as per the odd-even norm, but there was no customer.” President of the Sector 48 motor market, Kamal Suri, added that the shopkeepers used free time to repair the wiring that rats had eaten into.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/lockdown-4-0-chandigarh-s-sector-17-other-markets-open-to-poor-response/story-pEhOhziZt6YCYMm0OueEnL.html
20-05-2020||Chandigarh||Date of submitting information for PU-CET (PG) extended to June 26||Panjab University (PU) decided to extend the last date for submission of information on its website for PU-CET (PU-Common Entrance Test) for postgraduate courses, till June 26, on Tuesday, the varsity said in a statement.Earlier, the last date was May 20. The last date for payment of fees at any SBI Branch, or through net banking, has also been extended to June 30, PU said.“The date of the examination will be notified later,” the university said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/date-of-submitting-information-for-pu-cet-pg-extended-to-june-26/story-IN27FG3dggsx8585EJdNAN.html
20-05-2020||City||Now, people in Mohali can report liquor smuggling through calls, WhatsApp||Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said the public can now help the district administration prevent smuggling of liquor, by reporting it through call or via WhatsApp.People can now give tip-offs on liquor smuggling by calling, or sending a WhatsApp message on the number 9888422998, or by calling the control room on 0172-2219506, the DC said. “The district Administration has developed a strong mechanism to crackdown on liquor smuggling in the district. We have increased vigilance, nakas, surprise checks and raids.We are also roping in the public as they can be good informants regarding illegal activity in their neighbourhoods,” Dayalan said.He said the identity of informants will be protected to ensure their safety and security. He added that the district administration will suitably reward an informant whose tip-off leads to seizure.Dayalan said 24x7 manning of all the entry points is being done by a joint team of police and excise. The DC added that to check pilferage, activities in distilleries and bottling plants are under scanner, and strict watch is being kept on outward movement of trucks to ensure they carry required documents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/now-people-in-mohali-can-report-liquor-smuggling-through-calls-whatsapp/story-6IXfb2uKhdDfCAOFOT1hMI.html
20-05-2020||City||Recarpeting of roads begins in Panchkula||With dilapidated roads becoming a ground reality in Panchkula, which has otherwise been dubbed Haryana’s Paris, authorities have finally initiated the recarpeting process.The Panchkula municipal corporation (MC) started the process in Sector 21 on Tuesday, a day after Haryana assembly speaker and Panchkula MLA Gian Chand Gupta inaugurated the work for 22 roads to be recarpeted at a cost of ₹1.23 crore.The recarpeting of the 4.7-km road in Sector 21, besides inner sector roads, is likely to be completed by next month, along with roads in some other sectors.“We are using machines used for highways, thus speeding up the repair work. The tendering process for other roads in bad shape is also in its final stage and work will be allotted by next week. We have planned to complete all repairs by June 20, before the monsoon starts,” MC commissioner Sumedha Kataria said.Kataria said technical and financial bids for Sectors 1-2, 4 and 5, have been opened and tenders for the work will be finalised and allotted, most likely by end of this week.“We will start recarpeting process for roads in Sectors, 1, 2, 4 and 5 soon. Work allotment is in the final stages. Work on the non-motorised corridor (NMT) will also kick start soon,” Kataria added.The civic body will focus on main roads in dilapidated condition first, and will try to cover other roads in bad shape by next month.HSVP TO FIX 5 ROADS, WORK YET TO STARTIn January, the MC’s engineering department had prepared a timeline report of roads falling under the MC limits, which were repaired or recarpeted around two-and-a-half years back.Based on this, the civic body had asked the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) to get five such roads repaired, that are covered under the defect liability period of the contract that was executed when the latter was overseeing the upkeep of roads. The five roads include the Sector 7/18 road towards national highway, Sector 1/2 dividing road towards Sector 1, Sector 1/6 dividing road, Sector 7/8 dividing road, and Sector 20/21 dividing road. The work on these is yet to be started. It also includes the potholed road separating Sectors 1 and 2, leading to the district courts and mini secretariat that has offices of several top officials and is right in front of the BJP office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/recarpeting-of-roads-begins-in-panchkula/story-87g98jes3eoNnIZRwdgqXM.html
20-05-2020||City||500 migrants gathered at Dera Bassi screening centre lathi-charged by police||Thrown out by landlords, waiting to go back to their native place, around 500 migrants who had gathered at a government school in Dera bassi for screening were on Tuesday dispersed after police resorted to lathi charge.The migrants had gathered outside the centre in hopes to get a berth on the trains leaving the district to their native place. The police said they had to use force after the migrants roughed up an official of Dera Bassi entrusted to oversee the screening of the migrants.Dera Bassi MLA NK Sharma said, “It is unfortunate that the authorities are resorting to lathi charge forcing the migrants to sit on roadsides in scorching heat.”He added, “All of these migrants are registered, and were waiting for their turn to get screened, but instead of facilitating their return the authorities resorted to lathi charge and even stopped the langar where these migrants were eating.”Kuldeep Bawa, sub-divisional magistrate, Dera Bassi, said, “Even people from Panchkula were gathered here, and some even manhandled an official. Despite repeated announcements, they were not following social distancing and were, therefore, dispersed.”Meanwhile, 147 screened migrants were sent to different districts in Uttar Pradesh in seven sanitised buses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/500-migrants-gathered-at-dera-bassi-screening-centre-lathi-charged-by-police/story-tCtdj43THlggkgB47Rf5HK.html
20-05-2020||Chandigarh||Dynamics of Indo-Pak relations in focus during webinar at Panjab University||The department of defence and national security studies, Panjab University, organised a webinar on the dynamics of Indo-Pak relations, on Tuesday.The online event, titled “Indo-Pak relations – The way ahead”, was attended by faculty members, serving army forces officers pursuing courses in the department, research scholars and students. Shalini Chawla, distinguished fellow, Centre for Air Power Studies (CAPS) said India is now making efforts for diplomatic isolation of Pakistan, by highlighting its policy towards terrorism, at various international forums. She said these sustained efforts improved India’s position at the international level, which was highlighted when India’s air strikes at Balakot, after the Pulwama terrorist attack, was not condemned by any nation. She said Pakistan has recently created a new terrorist organisation for Kashmir, The Resistance Front (TRF), that has brought members of various terrorist organisations under its banner, since it has not been banned. Chawla added that Pakistan has been relying on local Kashmiri terrorists since infiltration of the Line of Control (LoC) has become difficult and the government is using its “Indian Threat” narrative to justify increase in military spending. “The upcoming US withdrawal from Afghanistan is only going to strengthen Pakistan’s hold on that country through Taliban, which it will later be used against India,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dynamics-of-indo-pak-relations-in-focus-during-webinar-at-panjab-university/story-o3VUDrsY81wCZCmLocl9bP.html
20-05-2020||City||Over 50% migrants from Sangrur refuse to return their hometowns||Amid reports of mass migrant workers’ exodus from Punjab, over 50% migrants in Sangrur district refused to return to their hometowns in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh as industries and markets have resumed.As per the office of nodal officer for inter-state movement, 13,465 people have registered to move to their hometowns in district.Of these, so far, 3,026 migrants were supposed to return home. While 1,458 were sent back to their home states, 1,568 informed the administration that they do not want to return home and are willing to resume work in Punjab.“Over 50% of the migrants refused to board train. They said as industries have resumed operations and shops are now open, they want to stay back,” said DC Ghanshyam Thori.Around 150 labourers from a private factory at Ghabdan village and over 100 workers from a spinning mill in Malerkotla had moved to their hometowns after alleged dispute with factory owners over salary cut.However, some labourers and street vendors have restarted business after lifting of curfew in state.“When there was no work, we thought of returning home. But now that the curfew has been lifted and we can get work, we have cancelled our plan,” said Priyansi, 28, who hails from Jaunpur in UP and works along with his three friends as a painter in Sangrur.Puspindera, 25, a ‘chhole-kulche’ vendor, said, “We are allowed to sell the item from 9am to 6pm and it gave us a great relief. So, we cancelled returning home.”Vidhya Sagari, nodal officer inter-state movement, said that migrants who registered with district administration are being sent to Patiala, Bathinda and Ludhiana railway stations via buses as per train schedules.“But now, the number of people wanting to stay back and work is increasing and we are agreeing to their will,” said Sagari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/over-50-migrants-from-sangrur-refuse-to-return-their-hometowns/story-OQUWlpFAUSGQEi1YXtDTaP.html
20-05-2020||City||Pillion rider killed in mishap on Rupnagar-Morinda road||A Rupnagar resident was killed and another injured after their scooter was involved in an accident near Salapur Chowk on Rupnagar-Morinda road near here on Tuesday. The deceased, who was riding pillion, has been identified as Bhag Singh of Rasulpur village in Rupnagar. As per police sources, the mishap took place when a tipper hit the victims’ scooter while overtaking a car. Bhag was killed on the spot while Major Singh, who was driving the scooter, sustained serious injuries and was referred to the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) in Chandigarh. Police said a case had been registered against the unidentified tipper driver in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pillion-rider-killed-in-mishap-on-rupnagar-morinda-road/story-UvcdAkMfNJ7rTf7mrQYSvO.html
20-05-2020||Chandigarh||Panchkula admn issues fresh guidelines for opening shops||The Panchkula administration issued fresh guidelines for opening of shops and other activities during Lockdown 4.0, till May 31, on Tuesday.Panchkula deputy commissioner (DC) Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said orders for opening shops rendering non-essential services, and those in rural areas, have been revised.As per the fresh orders, shops rendering essential services are allowed to remain open on all days, as per conditions, between 7am to 6.30pm. Other shops have been divided into two categories, ‘B’ and ‘C’.Category ‘B’ includes plumbers and electricians, hardware and paint shops and electrical appliance stores, that will be operational between 9am to 6pm on Wednesday, Friday and Sunday.Category ‘C’ includes gift and toy shops, bag and suitcase shops and dry cleaners, that will remain open on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday between 9am to 6pm.Barber shops, salons and spas will remain closed among other prohibited activities as per previous orders. In Kalka and Pinjore (MC area), all shops facing eastern and northern sides will remain open from 9am to 2pm on all days, except Monday. Those facing western and southern sides will remain open everyday from 1pm to 6pm, except Monday.However, all shops in rural areas will remain open from 8am to 6pm on all days. All standalone (single shops), neighbourhood (colony) shops and shops in residential areas will remain open on all the days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panchkula-admn-issues-fresh-guidelines-for-opening-shops/story-0bA6jJkaCJgpMMP44dRsmN.html
20-05-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai Police seized 2,438 vehicles for violating lockdown norms||Thousands of motorists on Tuesday took out their vehicles resulting in traffic on the highways. Mumbai Police impounded 2,438 vehicles of which 873 were private cars and 230 were taxis and 1,335 were autorickshaws. Meanwhile, a total of 191 Mumbai Police personnel have reported for duty after recovering from Covid-19, including deputy commissioner of police (zone 3) Abhinash Kumar. Additional commissioner of police (traffic) Pravin Padwal clarified that there has been no relaxation of lockdown rules in Mumbai. “No person is allowed to use vehicles unless it’s for transporting essential goods. If any citizen wants to buy essential goods then he should go walking and using vehicles for this purpose is not allowed. No rickshaws or taxis are allowed to ply. We will allow use of vehicles only for an emergency. We will impound all those vehicles found violating the lockdown rules,” he said. Dilip Sawant, additional commissioner, north region (Goregaon to Dahisar) said more than 200 vehicles, mostly autorickshaws and motorcycles, were impounded at Samta Nagar junction on the western express highway (WEH) and at Vanrai. Senior inspector of Dahisar police station Hanif Mujawar, whose team is posted near the check post, said 28 vehicles coming in from Vasai-Virar were impounded and first informations (FIRs) were filed against the violators.Meanwhile, the three-member government committee headed by Amitabh Gupta, principal secretary (special), state home department, on Tuesday decided to provide 1,421 additional manpower from various government departments to Mumbai Police for helping the latter send migrant workers to their respective states.The committee provided the additional manpower for assisting the local police stations and deputy commissioners of police (the nodal officers) in Mumbai city for compiling, collating, uploading and processing the data in the National Migrants Information System (NMIS) portal of the government of India. These government employees are below 40 years and include staff from Mantralaya and other field officials of various government departments, said a senior Indian Police Service (IPS) officer.“These government employees have better subject knowledge and would help police for compiling and uploading the list of migrants on the government website,” Gupta said.The committee for migrants was formed on Monday. It has Vinoy Kumar Choubey, joint commissioner of police, Mumbai and Rahul Kulkarni, deputy secretary, general administration department, as other members.With sanctioning of additional manpower the police hopes to send maximum migrants back to their hometowns in lesser time through a more well co-ordinated and smooth system. The Mumbai Police said that till Monday they have sent back 1,61,261 stranded people, most of them being migrant labourers, to their home states, while around 3 lakh are still on the waiting list.One more death recorded in Mumbai Police As of Tuesday morning, approximately 655 personnel from Mumbai Police and 1,328 personnel from state police have tested positive for Covid-19. Among the 1,328 are the 324 who have since recovered.The death toll from Covid-19 has risen to nine in Mumbai Police and to 12 among the state police. Constable Dilip Patil,46, from the Mumbai Police’s anti-terrorism squad (ATS) died on Sunday morning. He had tested positive for Covid-19. One death each was reported from Pune, Solapur and Nashik rural. One was an officer and the rest were constables or assistant police sub-inspectors (ASIs). Lockdown violations on Monday A total of 76 FIRs were lodged on Monday against 223 people and 113 were arrested for lockdown violations. Most of these were for gathering in a place (54) and for not wearing masks (17). The western suburbs (Bandra to Jogeshwari) saw the most FIRs (26) followed by south (18) and central (12) regions. Mumbai Police complains to BMC about ambulanceMumbai Police has requested the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to dedicate 12 ambulances to cops. In a letter to BMC commissioner, dated May 18, joint commissioner of police (administration) Naval Bajaj has said that Covid-positive policemen had to seven to eight hours for an ambulance to reach hospital and the ambulance helpline (1916) did not offer prompt response. The police department has requested BMC to keep 12 ambulances — one for each of Mumbai’s 12 zones — for police personnel and that priority should be given to policemen when they call for ambulances. Bajaj confirmed the development.One more Covid case at Arthur road jail A police constable from Arthur Road jail tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday following which three others were quarantined and tested. So far, 27 staffers and 158 inmates of the jail have tested positive. Fears of contracting the infection has led to several staff members not reporting for duty, resulting in reduced manpower. Prison authorities pointed out that courts have delayed the bail process for 1,270 inmates.Booked for samosa party Pant Nagar police on Monday registered a case against members of a housing society in Ghatkopar for allegedly organising a samosa party in their premises. According to the police, there are videos and photographs showing a gathering of 20 persons who are been served the snack. The chairman and another member of the housing society were arrested for violating lockdown rules . A politician of a national party also lives in the society but he was not a part of the event, said police sources. Bus owner booked for transporting passengers illegallyA private luxury bus crashed into a divider at the Navghar flyover on the eastern express highway (EEH), in Mulund, on Monday night. Some passengers sustained minor injuries. The driver, the owner of the bus service and the ticketing agent who had sold passengers tickets for the bus were arrested as the bus was plying without requisite permissions. It had left Airoli on Monday and was carrying around 20 passengers to Ahmednagar. “They did not seek permission from Navi Mumbai police. Only essential services and those who have acquired an e-pass are allowed to travel,” said Paramjit Singh Dahiya, deputy commissioner of police (zone 7). A case has been registered under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).(With inputs from Pratik Salunke, Jayprakash S Naidu, Vijaykumar Yadav, Faisal Tandel and Manish K Pathak)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-seized-2-438-vehicles-for-violating-lockdown-norms/story-qOeF0HHIrC932qmzUgpdFN.html
20-05-2020||City||Two medical shop owners booked for flouting rules||Two owners of a shop selling homeopathy medicines at Vishnunagar in Dombivli were booked on Tuesday for unhygienically packing medicines.Three children were found packing tablets inside the shop, whose shutter was down. They were not wearing gloves nor wearing masks and handling tablets with bare hands.A social worker recorded a video and informed the police.Senior police inspector from Vishnunagar police station, R Munagekar, said, “We have registered a case against shop owners Kamal Chaudhary, 35, and Mabal Chaudhary, 38, under various sections.”He added that they have sent the three boys for medical examination and if they are underage, they will add other sections too. “We have informed Food and Drug Administration to investigate,” Munagekar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-medical-shop-owners-booked-for-flouting-rules/story-0lXFakmAyVdGH7qjwagrsK.html
20-05-2020||City||21-year-old Panchkula man arrested for raping differently abled minor||The Panchkula police on Tuesday arrested a 21-year-old man for allegedly raping a 15-year-old girl with speech and hearing impairment. Both victim and accused are residents of a village falling under the Sector 5 police station.Inspector Neha Chauhan of the Sector 5 women police station said the crime took place on Sunday night when the victim had gone to attend nature’s call. Based on the statement of her mother, the case was registered. Initially, the victim was unable to narrate the incident. However after she complained of uneasiness on late Monday night, her medical examination was conducted, which confirmed rape, said police.The accused was arrested on Tuesday, and later produced in a local court that sent him to judicial custody. A case under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/21-year-old-panchkula-man-arrested-for-raping-differently-abled-minor/story-shtmn9EdoVWhcswrcR9kJN.html
20-05-2020||Chandigarh||2.8 lakh migrant workers returned from Punjab||Over 2.8 lakh migrant workers have returned to their homes from Punjab so far. Their return has been facilitated by the state government, nodal officer Vikas Pratap said on Tuesday, the day 200th train left from Amritsar. The train was flagged off from Amritsar by deputy commissioner Shivdular Singh Dhillon and would take migrants to their homes in Maharashtra. “We are ensuring those wishing to go back are united with their families without any difficulty at the earliest,” said the nodal officer, adding: “The task is being accomplished with the collaboration of deputy commissioners and the railway authorities of Ferozepur and Ambala divisions. The maximum 89 trains have gone from Ludhiana whereas another 61 trains Jalandhar have taken migrants to different parts of the country, followed by 19 from Amritsar, 16 from Patiala and 15 from Mohali. Six trains have left from Ferozepur with 5 from Sirhind and 3 from Bathinda. The maximum trains are going to Uttar Pradesh followed by Bihar and Jharkhand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2-8-lakh-migrant-workers-returned-from-punjab/story-LBDeEoBiuUKgxMRYKYGhWM.html
20-05-2020||Mumbai||ICMR’s new rule will push up number of undiagnosed Covid patients, say doctors||The Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) new testing guideline, released on Monday, has left doctors confused. Doctors said that the new rule, which states that only symptomatic patients with influenza-like illnesses (ILI) within hotspots and containment zones are qualified for coronavirus tests, is a “diplomatic decision to decrease the number of contaminated zones”.Doctors claimed that the new rule implicates that other suspected people with similar symptoms from outside these areas will not be tested.The Union Health Ministry defines the containment zone as a specific geographical area where positive cases of coronavirus are found. The authorities declare some lanes or neighbourhoods as containment zones even if it has one case, but it is declared a hotspot particularly when more than 6 cases appear.Now, doctors’ associations are raising the question— if no more new patients aren’t diagnosed outside the already marked zones, there will be no enmarkment of new containment zones of hot spots. This will ultimately diminish the rising number of infected zones but let loose undiagnosed Covid-19 patients from other areas, alleged doctors.“The rule is diplomatically correct, fundamentally wrong. This will help to reduce new containment zones as no more new cases will be identified outside those areas. Thus, no new containment zones will be created,” said Dr Deepak Baid, president of the association.“But this will let go of several undetected patients even if they have symptoms.”At present, in Mumbai, there are over 3,000 containment zones. Indian Medical Association (IMA) also criticised the new rule and demanded the involvement of doctors’associations in framing it. “So far, we have been testing symptomatic patients coming to our fever clinics. Now, with the new rules, we will never let them go if they don’t belong from containment zones,” said Dr Avinash Bhondwe, president IMA- Maharashtra. Doctors also fear that it may increase the number of submissions of fake addresses. “This may force people to give wrong addresses from the containment zones to qualify for the test. And we don’t even have the provision to check it. But it will delay the contact tracing of infected patients,” he added.Other than this, people with recent international travel history, symptomatic close contact of infected patients, health workers, patients with severe acute respiratory infections (SARI), high risk contact of confirmed patients, symptomatic migrant workers and hospitalized patients can undergo tests with the recommendation of doctors.The Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) new testing guideline, released on Monday, has left doctors confused. Doctors said the new rule, which states that only symptomatic patients with influenza-like illnesses (ILI) within hotspots and containment zones are qualified for coronavirus tests, is a “diplomatic decision to decrease the number of contaminated zones”. They claimed that the new rule implicates that other suspected people with similar symptoms from outside these areas will not be tested.“The rule is fundamentally wrong. This will help in reducing new containment zones as no more new cases will be identified outside those areas. But it will let go of several undetected patients even if they have symptoms,” said Dr Deepak Baid, president of the Association of Medical Consultants.Doctors also fear the rule may lead to patients submitting fake addresses. “People may give wrong addresses of containment zones to qualify for the test. And we don’t even have the provision to check it. It will also delay the contact tracing of infected patients,” said Dr Avinash Bhondwe, president Indian Medical Association, Maharashtra. People with recent international travel history, symptomatic close contact of infected patients, health workers, patients with severe acute respiratory infections (SARI), high-risk contacts of confirmed patients, symptomatic migrant workers and hospitalised patients can undergo tests on the recommendation of doctors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/icmr-s-new-rule-will-push-up-number-of-undiagnosed-covid-patients-say-doctors/story-p2wnOsFRtmElLCi7W0YHpN.html
20-05-2020||Lucknow||Lucknow ready to shift gears in lockdown 4.0||It’s 12.30 pm and the temperature is a scorching 40 degrees Celsius.But unmindful of the heat, Vijay Shanker Verma, 64, more popularly known as ‘Lalla’ in Chaupatiyan locality of the old city, is busy getting his shop cleaned.“Today I have opened it for the first time March 23. But I don’t have any mutton supplies so I didn’t do any business. My workers have returned and we are waiting for the government nod to resume sale of non-vegetarian food, specially because Eid is close,” says Verma, the chef and owner of ‘Lalla Biryani’, a 35- year-old shop.Since he speaks of Eid, does his customer base include Muslims too? Muslims prefer ‘halal’ (which means permissible in Arabic) meat. So does ‘Lalla’ a Hindu, follow ‘halal’ slaughtering of animals, meaning killing an animal through a slow cut to the vein, carotid artery and windpipe? Hindus and Sikhs are known to prefer ‘jhatka’ or swift slaughter. Verma’s answer showcases the communal amity of Lucknow. “I operate my shop out of a mosque and buy my stuff from Muslims only. About 40 per cent of my client base is Muslim. I am an Indian first, a Hindu later,” he says. Old city in Lucknow is home to some iconic eateries – Tundey kebabs, Raheem’s Kulcha Nahari, Mubeen’s pasanda kebabs, Idrees’ biryani, all of whom are just about as eager to open. “We have heard that the government might allow sale of meat from Wednesday and if that happens we will slowly start operations,” said Abu Bakr, the owner of Idrees Biryani. From salt ‘lassi’ to makhan malai and ‘rabri’, the special ‘kesar milk’ and those mouth watering ‘imartis’ or the refreshing ‘thandai’, he old city is a foodie’s paradise.Many labyrinthian lanes of the old city are also famous for ‘khastas and samosas’ deep fried in desi ghee, drawing people from across the city. This part of the state capital is also famous for its intricate zardozi and chikankari art work – all of which has been hit. “I think it will still take a day or two for things to normalise,” says Mohd Shahzad, a zardozi worker who has come back from Hardoi hoping to begin work.“We heard that there would be some relaxations but at least today there has not been any work. Like me hundreds of workers are waiting to start work,” he said.TRAFFIC LIGHTS COME TO LIFEAt the Vidhan Sabha Marg, traffic lights have come to life. The once deserted roads have started recording decent movement. Waiting at the crossing for the light to turn green, one can see that nearly all movement is on personal vehicles.There are a few buses too, but it is not clear if they are ferrying people or running exclusively for migrants whom the government has barred from walking on the road or cycle their way back to their village. “It has been done for their safety as they were dying on the roads and putting themselves at great risk while walking abnormally huge distances,” a policeman manning the Vidhan Sabha Marg crossing says. One quickly realises that there are fewer barricades on the road. The curbs are coming off, bit by bit.MASK PLEASE!At the polytechnic crossing and in Indira Nagar, policemen check if the people follow the mask-social distancing norm while driving. “There can just be two persons other than driver in the car and pillion riding isn’t allowed on two wheelers,” says a policeman as he stops a motorcyclist violating the norm. Going out without a mask or face cover or violating social distancing protocol while driving can lead to a fine of Rs 1000. However, the policemen at polytechnic crossing clear people with a warning.AH, SWEETS!There are just two sweetshops open-- Tripathi’s in Hussainganj and another small shop in the old city. “I made ‘boondi ke laddoo’ as today is Tuesday when many people offer them as ‘prasad’ (offering) to lord Hanuman,” says V Tripathi, the owner of one of the city’s oldest sweet shops.But the more popular Chappan Bhog in Sadar and Ram Asrey in old city as well as in Hazratganj are closed, as is Parampara, another famous sweetshop. BUSINESS IS PEANUTS!At the Moongphali Mandi, a wholesale market of puffed rice, roasted grams and peanuts, shopkeepers say the business is down.“In pre-lockdown days we had buyers from across the state capital and did business of Rs 8000. Now, it has shrunk to just about Rs 2000, that too because it’s the cheapest food the poor can afford and vendors are coming to buy it,” says Roshan Gupta, a whole seller who explains that gram and puffed rice is nutritious too.TESTING WATERS!A lone cloth shop is open at Mahanagar crossing and the owner is busy chatting on the phone. “Please don’t take a photo,” he requests, before getting back to his mobile.CONTAINMENT ZONES!An entire food street in Nazirabad is closed for vehicular traffic. This street also houses a row of food joints, the most popular being Tundey Kebabs, the first shop Tundey’s family set up out of old city. This area is a covid hotspot, a policeman says, explaining why the food street has been barricaded. Another street out of bounds is Latouche Road that opens at Qaiserbagh crossing and has a queer mix of gun shops, music shops and sanitaryware stores.There have been several corona positive cases from the vicinity leading to the barricade.IRONY! While driving out of the old city, one cannot resist capturing an interesting photo. A fruit seller has parked his cart right at the entrance of Mubin’s non-vegetarian shop. The irony of the situation isn’t lost on some young Muslim women. “It seems Mubin has diversified his business and started selling fruits too!” they joke. PARTING SHOT! At Madhurima, a bakery-cum-restaurant in Gomtinagar, one stops for a reality check. At the entrance the watchman subjects one to a thermo scan. “You can’t go in, your temperature is reading 41 on this machine,” he says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/lucknow-ready-to-shift-gears-in-lockdown-4-0/story-N6J5N5no1kc3tD9aUJ1ZqI.html
20-05-2020||City||Day 1 of lockdown 4.0: Bleak response as public transport resumes in and around Chandigarh||Even though fresh relaxations in the tricity have allowed for public transport to resume services, albeit maintaining social distancing, there were hardly any takers on Tuesday.Many auto-rickshaws were found parked at the stands. A few inter-state CTU buses seen on the roads didn’t have any passengers.Charanjit Singh, an auto driver based in Chandigarh, said, “I started the auto after two months today, but till 2pm, I could not find a single customer. It is heartbreaking to see such a response.”Another driver, Raju Prasad, said that he had been surviving on food provided by the administration and loans from local vendors.A Mohali-based Uber driver said, “The response has been poor. People are preferring their own transport over cabs.”MANY DRIVERS HAVE LEFTRam Chander, an auto-rickshaw driver working in Sector 38, said, “In Sector 38, 12 auto drivers used to work, now only one or two are left. Most of them from Bihar and UP have left for their homes because there was no source of livelihood. Their auto-rickshaws are still here.”“I stayed back because I have a loan to repay that I took to buy this auto. I thought that schools would reopen and I would make some money, but that hasn’t happened either.”An Uber driver from Mohali said, “We do not have enough drivers and cars because many left after the lockdown began. Also, the yearly permits of many vehicles expired in March and they can begin services only after renewing the permits.”INTERSTATE CAB OPERATIONS A CHAOSAlthough both Ola and Uber became operational on Tuesday, many tricity residents faced trouble while trying to book interstate rides.Junaid Maqbool, a student of Panjab University, said, “I tried booking an Uber for Mohali from Chandigarh, but it displayed an error message after which I took Ola.”Many passengers said that cabs were operating within the district only. In lockdown 4.0, inter-state travel for cabs has been permitted in Chandigarh and Mohali, but in Panchkula, only intra-district travel is allowed for now.NEW CAB DRIVING NORMSCab services have said the drivers will not travel to containment zones. Drivers will be provided with masks, sanitizers and disinfectants, the common surfaces like door handles and seats will be cleaned after every ride.Ola, in an official statement, said that both drivers, as well as customers, will be given an option of cancelling a ride if the other is not wearing a mask.Moreover, there will be no AC in cars and cashless payments will be encouraged.Intra-district bus service resumed in Panchkula on Tuesday with nine buses to ply to Barwala, Raipur Rani, Naraingarh, Pinjore, Kalka and even to Ambala and Yamunanagar. However, on the first day there was poor response and most of the buses did not start in the absence of adequate passengers, said Ravinder Pathak, general manager, Haryana Roadways.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/day-1-of-lockdown-4-0-bleak-response-as-public-transport-resumes-in-and-around-chandigarh/story-JcXjTJdXn8ml0V33dPStxL.html
20-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh gets just 3 stars in Centre’s garbage-free rating||Chandigarh’s waste management system has got three stars in the latest garbage-free star rating released for 141 cities by the central government on Tuesday. An initiative of the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, a seven-star rating is the highest, awarded to the city with a perfect waste management system. The municipal corporation (MC) was aspiring for five-star rating this year and also planning to achieve the highest seven-star rating next year.However, Chandigarh fell short of the target. While mayor Raj Bala Malik said the three-star rating was an achievement, MC leader of opposition Devinder Babla said, “MC must introspect why other cities not as organised as Chandigarh fared well in the ratings. The delay in waste management reforms on the ground continue to ruin city’s perspective in Swachh Survekshan rankings and much of the credit goes to slow decision making by the BJP-ruled MC,” he said MC commissioner KK Yadav said, “While city was lagging behind in waste segregation and processing, three-star can’t be underrated when just six cities got five-star rating and none so far has been rated seven stars. “We will definitely try to get better rating next year as most of our waste reforms will be achieved,” Yadav added. Poor rating last year tooThe star rating, awarded on the basis of 25 key parameters across the solid waste management spectrum, helps cities assess their progress while encouraging them to move towards a better rating, thereby improving their overall cleanliness and aesthetics.However, Chandigarh made little progress ever since rating began in 2019, when it got only two stars.This time, it went one step up the ladder but it is not enough especially when star rating is now linked with the annual Swachh Survekshan.The annual cleanliness survey has reserved 1,000 (20%) marks for better garbage-free star rating. With Chandigarh getting low rating, it will not be able to score more than 50% marks in this category. On the other hand, cities like Ambikapur, Rajkot, Surat, Mysore, Indore and Navi Mumbai were awarded five-star rating. Their final ranking in Swachh Survekshan is likely to surpass Chandigarh, said MC insiders. Vinod Vashisht, convener, City Forum of Residents Welfare Associations, said, “There are strong chances that the city will not be in top 10 in Swachh rankings this year. We continue to struggle with poor waste management infrastructure despite tall claims.” Where the city faltered?Unable to achieve 100% waste collection and segregation of garbage till processingAll public and commercials areas not sweeped twice a dayUnable to place twin bins (blue and green) at every 50-100 metres in all public and commercial areasYet to set up material recovery facility for garbage collection, sorting, storage, recycle, processing and saleUnable to accomplish 100% scientific processing of wasteRules framed but penalties and spot fines for non-segregation and littering not implementedProcessing of construction and debris is slowLacks robust citizen grievance redressal and feedback systemDrains and water bodies are not cleanedExisting dumping site needs to be levelled||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-gets-just-3-stars-in-centre-s-garbage-free-rating/story-7ZXudNK4E0yuuq05OGOIQJ.html
20-05-2020||Chandigarh||Two held for not wearing masks in Chandigarh||The Chandigarh police on Monday arrested two men in separate cases for stepping out of house without wearing masks.In the first case, Suraj Kumar, a resident of Shastri Nagar in Manimajra, was booked and later arrested after police found him roaming near the Shastri Nagar light point without wearing a mask. In a similar case, Arpit Kumar of Sector 47 was arrested at a neighbourhood park. Following a complaint, Sector 31 and Manimajra police officials registered complaints against the accused under Section 188 (disobedience of order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Police said the accused were later release on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-held-for-not-wearing-masks-in-chandigarh/story-cRJAsdwtESw2tqsctM5S3L.html
20-05-2020||Mumbai||FIR against Mumbai doctors if patient sent for swab test sans examination||Doctors found prescribing swab tests to detect Covid-19 without examining patients could not only lose their licences to practice, but will also face a criminal case under section 188 (disobedience of an order promulgated by a public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Epidemic Act of 1897, the civic body’s notice, issued on Sunday, stated. On May 7, HT was the first to report that the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) was planning to file a first information report (FIR) against doctors prescribing tests without physical examination. A sample of the police form was also forwarded to ward officers but the proposal was called off. However, new BMC commissioner Iqbal Chahal has reinforced the rule to stop unethical practices. The BMC notice stated that all medical officers of health (MOH) of the 24 wards should follow the standard operating procedure (SOP) for swab testing. The ward officers will have to inform police to file FIR against the doctors if they are found violating the rules. “If an MOH finds that local private medical practice is giving recommendation letters for swab testing to outside area persons without physical examination, then strict action may be taken against such doctors as show cause notice for cancellation for registration and to lodge an FIR in local police station,” reads the notice. However, it has garnered much criticism from the medical fraternity, with the doctors terming the rule as “tyrannical” and “draconian”. “This is unacceptable...we are putting our lives at risk to save people. A corporation can’t just decide to file an FIR against us. Also, cancellation of a licence is up to the medical council. BMC has no role or authority in it,” said Dr Avinash Bhondwe, president of Indian Medical Association (IMA), Maharashtra. The Association of Medical Consultants, Mumbai, has written to the BMC commissioner seeking an exemption against the rule and said it contradicts the telemedicine policy of the central health department. On March 21, when the Union health ministry issued the guidelines for Covid-19 testing in private laboratories, it had stated, “Laboratory test should only be offered when prescribed by a qualified physician as per the ICMR [Indian Council of Medical Research] guidelines.”Dr Deepak Baid, president of the association, said, “Under telemedicine, a registered medical practitioner can evaluate and prescribe laboratory or radiology tests to suspected callers. In such a case, the doctors send the prescription through WhatsApp and emails. This is more effective and safer,” said Dr Baid.Earlier this month, BMC was planning to bring such a rule when a doctor from Delhi prescribed Covid test to a Mumbai resident without a physician examination. The incident came to light after the private laboratory where the resident went for the test informed BMC officials.Doctors found prescribing swab tests without examining patients could not only lose their licences, but will also face a criminal case under section 188 (disobedience of an order promulgated by a public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Epidemic Act of 1897, the civic body’s notice, issued on Sunday, stated. On May 7, HT was the first to report that the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) was planning to file a first information report (FIR) against doctors prescribing tests without physical examination. A sample of the police form was also forwarded to ward officers but the proposal was called off. However, new BMC commissioner Iqbal Chahal has reinforced the rule to stop unethical practices. Despite repeated attempts, Chahal did not respond to calls.The BMC notice stated that all medical officers of health (MOH) of the 24 wards should follow the standard operating procedure (SOP) for swab testing. The ward officers will have to inform police to file FIR against doctors if they are found violating the rules. “If an MOH finds that private medical practice is giving recommendation letters for swab testing to outside area persons without physical examination, then strict action may be taken against such doctors as show cause notice for cancellation for registration and to lodge an FIR in local police station,” reads the notice. However, it has garnered much criticism from the medical fraternity, with the doctors terming the rule as “tyrannical” and “draconian”. “This is unacceptable...we are putting our lives at risk to save people. A corporation can’t just decide to file an FIR against us. Also, cancellation of a licence is up to the medical council. BMC has no role or authority in it,” said Dr Avinash Bhondwe, president of Indian Medical Association (IMA), Maharashtra. The Association of Medical Consultants, Mumbai, has written to the BMC commissioner seeking an exemption against the rule and said it contradicts the telemedicine policy of the central health department. On March 21, when the Union health ministry issued the guidelines for Covid-19 testing in private laboratories, it had stated, “Laboratory test should only be offered when prescribed by a qualified physician as per the ICMR [Indian Council of Medical Research] guidelines.”Dr Deepak Baid, president of the association, said, “Under telemedicine, a registered medical practitioner can evaluate and prescribe laboratory or radiology tests to suspected callers. In such a case, the doctors send the prescription through WhatsApp and emails. This is more effective and safer,” said Dr Baid.Earlier this month, BMC was planning to bring such a rule when a doctor from Delhi prescribed Covid test to a Mumbai resident without a physician examination. The incident came to light after the private laboratory where the resident went for the test informed BMC officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fir-against-mumbai-doctors-if-patient-sent-for-swab-test-sans-examination/story-B2g0bGOVLlHuYq9Caloe4I.html
20-05-2020||Chandigarh||Reprieve: No power tariff hike for Chandigarh consumers in 2020-21||In a major relief to more than 2 lakh power consumers in Chandigarh, the Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission (JERC) has decided there will be no hike in electricity tariff for 2020-21 fiscal. The charges for electric vehicle charging at designated outlets have also been reduced.Responding to the tariff revision petition of the UT electricity department, the JERC in an order on Tuesday said, “No increase has been made in the retail tariff for existing categories due to standalone revenue surplus in financial year 2020-21.”Giving another relief to the residents, the JERC has directed the UT to stop recovery of the fuel and power purchase cost adjustment (FPPCA) from all consumer categories starting April 1, 2020, till its further orders. The FPPCA charges are imposed on user on quarterly basis, and are in addition to the tariff imposed in the bill. The directions have been issued on account of revenue surplus in 2020-21. The department, however, has been directed to submit the quarterly FPPCA calculation to the JERC for review. In order to promote the use of electric vehicles (EV), the JERC has introduced a single-part tariff for EV charging stations, wherein the demand/fixed charges have been removed and the energy charges have been reduced from ₹4 per kilowatt hour (Kwh) to ₹3.80 per Kwh.The new tariff will be applicable from June 1 and will remain valid till further orders from the JERC.JERC approved tariffThe last increase in the domestic and commercial electricity tariff was in 2018-2019.In the domestic category, the approved rate is ₹2.75 in the slab of 0-150 units, ₹4.80 in the slab of 151-400 unit. In the slab of above 400 units, the rate is ₹5.20 per unit.In the commercial consumer category, there is no change in the rate of ₹5 in the slab between 0-150 units, in slab of 151-400, the rate is ₹5.30 per unit. In above 400 slab, it is ₹5.60 per unit.FIXED CHARGES TO CONTINUEThe JERC has turned down the demand for removing fixed charges component of the electricity bill.In the wake of the losses incurred due to the two-month lockdown period, the commercial units in the city were demanding removal of the fixed charges.The fixed charges are being charged separately, over and above the consumption charges. These charges range from ₹30/kW/month to ₹200/kW/month.The JERC, announcing its decision, stated, “The electricity department has to incur expenditure towards the capacity charges of power purchase and operation and maintenance, which are fixed in contrast to the energy charges which are payable for purchase of energy per unit. These expenses have to be recovered from the consumers and this is done by having a two-part tariff. Thus, the recovery of these expenses from the tariff is also levied on two-part tariff basis.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/reprieve-no-power-tariff-hike-for-chandigarh-consumers-in-2020-21/story-VoaLtYn5L10tqZIadZogLN.html
20-05-2020||City||Zirakpur MC official suspended for ‘misuse of power’||Punjab local bodies department additional chief secretary Sanjay Kumar on Tuesday suspended Zirakpur municipal council executive officer (EO) Manvir Singh Gill for misusing his powers to issue completion certificates to eight major residential-cum-commercial projects in February this year.This comes after chief vigilance officer of the department, Atul Sharma, submitted his report to Kumar, who confirmed that as per the report, the completion certificates were issued by not following the proper procedure.On May 4, HT had reported how Gill, despite having no authority under the relevant rules, issued certificates to major projects that are spread over more than five acres each. One of these projects has been developed over around 21 acres, and Punjab local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra had ordered an inquiry over it.When asked about the completion certificates, Mohindra said, “We will thoroughly probe the before cancellation of the certificates.”According to sources, Zirakpur municipal council officials did not even carry out physical verification of the projects for issuing fire safety no-objection certificate or giving permissions for sewerage and water connections and setting up of sewage treatment plant.Even in May last year, the Punjab and Haryana high court had pulled up the EO over inaction in removing illegal structures within 100 metres of the Chandigarh international airport, while warning him of criminal contempt proceedings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/zirakpur-mc-official-suspended-for-misuse-of-power/story-PV2nsnRMD8sNhOylIoFV2N.html
20-05-2020||Mumbai||Chaos at Mumbai’s Bandra station, again, as 2,000 migrants gather to board Bihar-bound train||In second such incident, more than 2,000 migrant workers gathered near Bandra Terminus around 11.30am on Tuesday morning to board a Bihar-bound Shramik special train.The railways carry a maximum of 1,700 workers in a train. As the message of the train to Bihar spread, workers started to walk towards the terminus along with their luggage, said police. While 1,700 could board, the remaining waited outside the station. The police lathi-charged and dispersed the crowd by 2pm. “The train was scheduled for Purnia. Many people who were not registered and not called by the state authorities gathered on the bridge and the road leading to the station. Registered passengers were checked and allowed to enter the station. The train left Bandra Terminus around noon with 1,700 labourers and their families,” said Ravinder Bhakar, chief PRO, Western Railway.Mumbai Police officers said the crowding was a result of rumours ranging from “the police are allowing people on the train by taking a cut” to “there is more space in train”, “cops have called labourers asking them to reach the station” and “there was a second train in the evening for Bihar”. Manjunath Shinge, deputy commissioner of police, zone 8, said, “We will investigate who spread the rumours and take appropriate action. The workers came from Dadar, Dharavi, Wadala and Mahim.” Pradeep Chavan, DCP GRP, said, “There was another rumour that a train will leave at 4pm.”Rohit Kumar, 18, who used to work at a hotel in Sakinaka and has been unemployed for two months, said, “I came here as I wanted to go to my hometown in Bihar. Someone told me that the police will allow me on the train if I pay them some money.” Ajay Paswan, 23, from Sakinaka, a tea seller, said, “Someone said there was more space on the train.” Jabbar Ansari, 48, who sells clothes in Bandra (East), said, “There was a rumour that there was another train at 4pm and it’s on first-come-first-served basis, so I reached the railway station.” “I got a call from the police saying that I will be allowed to board the train on Tuesday and that my turn has come. The police said they would give me the details about the train, but I got no call. When I came to know about the train leaving from Bandra Terminus I came to the station. However, I could not board,” said MD Ahmed, resident of Bihar.On April 14, hundreds of migrant workers had turned up at Bandra station, demanding trains to take them home. The Western Railway has since operated over 582 Shramik trains for migrant workers towards Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand.(Inputs from Suraj Ojha)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chaos-at-mumbai-s-bandra-station-again-as-2-000-migrants-gather-to-board-bihar-bound-train/story-Ea6zzkcvEfN6NI6hegHbRJ.html
20-05-2020||Chandigarh||Local bus service to restart in Chandigarh by May 21||The Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) will be starting its local bus service by May 21.With the city entering phase four of the Covid-19 lockdown, the UT administration in its order issued on Monday allowed plying of both local and interstate public transport. However, on Tuesday, CTU buses remained off road on both city and long routes, as both the interstate bus terminals (ISBTs) have been to put to alternative use — the Sector 26 vegetable market has been temporarily shifted to the Sector 17 ISBT, while at the ISBT-43, arrangements have been made for transportation of migrant workers to the railway station.The holding centre setup for migrant persons at the ISBT-43 is being shifted to the Chandigarh College of Engineering Technology (CCET), Sector 26, and the bus stand will be handed over once again to the UT transport department. The department has also requested the administration to vacate the ISBT-17 so that bus services can be resumed from there too.“The department is making efforts so that CTU buses are started by May 21. We will be starting the service from the ISBT-43 first,” said Uma Shankar Gupta, director, transport. First, 15 to 20 buses will be started, and the number will increase gradually. The timings and routes for CTU buses are being worked out by the department and will be made public in a day or two.For starting local bus to all areas of the tricity – Panchkula, Chandigarh and Mohali — and interstate bus service, the department has written to Punjab and Haryana for their consent. According to the central government’s Lockdown 4.0 guidelines, buses on interstate routes can be run only after consent is taken from all states concerned.All buses will run with 50% capacity and will be sanitized after every trip. There will be volunteers with thermal screening at the bus terminals to screen the passengers before boarding.HOLDING CENTRE FOR MIGRANT PERSONS SHIFTEDConsidering that the movement of CTU buses will commence shortly from ISBT-43, the holding centres for migrant persons will now operate from the Chandigarh College of Engineering Technology (CCET), Sector 26 . The stranded persons are required to reach there to avail themselves of the Shramik special train facility.AK Sinha, UT finance secretary, said that 10 more Shramik trains have been planned for carrying migrant labour and stranded persons from Chandigarh.The destinations include Motihari, Gaya, Madhapura, Ara, Danapur and Chapra in Bihar, Dhanbad in Jharkhand, and Lucknow, Moradabad, Shahajanpur, Sultanpur, Khagaria, Jounpur and Hardoi in Uttar Pradesh.However, there will be no train on May 20 and 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/local-bus-service-to-restart-in-chandigarh-by-may-21/story-kVnRzIYxjYg3VMmFIWMDEL.html
20-05-2020||City||Shops, salons to open today, but no interstate travel in J&K||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Tuesday announced relaxations in lockdown norms across the Union territory.From Wednesday the UT administration has allowed the opening of all shops including those in market areas (except shopping malls), all restaurants for home delivery, liquor shops, barbershops and salons outside municipal limits.However, the administration has decided not to allow inter-state and inter-district buses for public transport. Private vehicles will also not be allowed to enter UT from Lakhanpur.Similarly, the administration has allowed the functioning of private hospitals, clinics and nursing homes including OPD services.All e-commerce and courier services have been allowed.Canteens and eateries at bus stations, railway stations and airports with passes in red districts, all restaurants, including in hotels, can restart their kitchens for home delivery.Barbershops, salons, and parlours in areas except within the limits of municipal corporations in red and orange districts have also been permitted.In orange category districts, no permission or passes will be required for opening any kind of shops that will be allowed from 9 am to 5 pm.All private offices with 50% of staff will be allowed to function while sports activities in stadiums and complexes will also resume without the presence of spectators.For the inter-district movement in the orange zones, the private vehicles between a pair of green or orange districts, without crossing a red district with a maximum of two passengers besides driver in four-wheelers will be allowed.In green category districts, all shops would open without any restrictions on timings, all private offices with 100% staff strength, barbershops, salons and parlours in all areas, taxis and cabs can ply only within the district or between two green districts and public passenger transport vehicles including buses, tempo travellers can operate with 50% seating capacity within a district or between two contiguous green districts.The industrial activities have been allowed in all three categories of districts, with 100% workforce in green districts and 50% workforce in orange and red districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shops-salons-to-open-today-but-no-interstate-travel-in-j-k/story-WCHiwpy6YGkTSwz2gJtE4J.html
20-05-2020||Mumbai||Lowest on the list so far, five city wards to soon touch 500-case mark||Five wards--T ward (Mulund), RN ward (Dahisar), C Ward (Marine Lines), B Ward (Dongri) and RC ward (Borivli)--that had the lowest number of Covid-19 cases in the city are now inching towards the 500-mark. The growth has been fastest in T ward, with 216 cases last week but now they stand at 413.According to BMC officials, the doubling rate in Mulund is currently around seven days that has to be increased to 10 days on a priority. The rise in cases in the area has links to slums, majorly in Indira Nagar, followed by several cases having a connection to the APMC market and the clearing agents of Mumbai Port who have contributed to the spike. BMC said that many from the trading community, involved in essential services, spread the virus amongst their families which also contributed to the increase. Kishore Gandhi, assistant municipal commissioner, T Ward, said, “The doubling rate is currently seven days and we have to increase it to break the chain. The outbreak that was earlier reported in slums is now much under control, however, the priority is to contain the virus in residential housing societies. Citizens have to cooperate and stay indoors to break the chain.”In Mulund, out of the total 413 cases, 116 have been cured followed by 10 deaths. About 66 buildings were sealed and there were 15 containment zones in the area.The civic body is also setting up a quarantine facility of around 115 beds near Mulund check naka on the land that was being used for octroi naka. Mihir Kotecha, BJP MLA from Mulund said, “The facility is being made ready. It will be up for use in the next 48 hours.”According to BMC’s data last week, T Ward and RN ward that includes Dahisar and parts of Borivli, have growth rates of 18% and 11% respectively. RN Ward that had the lowest number of cases, had 192 till Monday compared to 101 on May 12, followed by C Ward including Marine Lines and Kalbadevi, with 234 cases till Monday compared to 134 on May 12. Further, at R Central Ward (Borivli) there were 221 cases on May 12 followed by 347 on Tuesday.At B ward (Dongri), cases rose from 184 on May 12 to 221 on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/lowest-on-the-list-so-far-five-city-wards-to-soon-touch-500-case-mark/story-VEaSGPoJEJ8oh2XB5l6kOM.html
20-05-2020||Chandigarh||Businessman Oberoi secures freedom for 11 Punjabi youths facing murder charges in Dubai||Twelve Indians and two Pakistanis, who were facing murder charges in Dubai, have been saved by Indian businessman and philanthropist SP Singh Oberoi, who made arrangements for the blood money to secure their release. According to Oberoi, 11 of the 14 youths (including two Pakistanis), returned on Monday while three are expected to reach India in the coming days. Five of the 12 Indians are from Gurdaspur, two from SBS Nagar, two from Kapurthala, one each from Jalandhar and Hoshiarpur, and one from Kurukshetra district in Haryana. According to a press release issued by Sarbat Da Bhala Charitable Trust run by Oberoi, a clash between two groups broke out in Sharjah on December 31, 2015, in which 23-year-old Ashif Ali of Samrai town in Jalandhar district and 25-year-old Varinderpal Singh of Pandoori village of Kapurthala district were killed. Fourteen youths were charged with the double murder and sent to jail in Dubai on January 1, 2016. Oberoi said the family members of the accused youths had approached him for help. “After finding that some of the youths were the only breadwinners of their families, I approached Nirmal Singh, a relative of victim Varinderpal, and apprised him of the pitiable situation of the family members of the accused,” he said. On May 21, 2018, Oberoi took Nirmal Singh to the Dubai court and told the judge that the family members of the victims were ready for a “compromise”.Oberoi said after getting a nod from the court, he handed over around ₹65 lakh blood money to the victims’ families in July 2018 and submitted the relevant papers. “After this, I attended 27 hearings. In total, ₹75 lakh, including the blood money, was spent on the case. A part of the money was paid by the families of the accused youths,” he said. He also said they had filed the appeal for the youths’ release in February 2020 and the court decided to release them in April this year. The nine Indian-returnees have been quarantined for 14 days at the Military Hospital in Chennai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/businessman-oberoi-secures-freedom-for-11-punjabi-youths-facing-murder-charges-in-dubai/story-A1UfDFV4OItVBSguionEDJ.html
20-05-2020||Mumbai||State is not handling crisis well: Maharashtra BJP||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Tuesday led a delegation to Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari to submit a complaint against the state government’s handling of the Covid-19 outbreak.The delegation, led by Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis, has demanded that the state should announce a fiscal package for daily wage earners as they have been worst hit by the pandemic.“Every day, the situation is getting worse in the state. Maharashtra has the maximum number of cases as well as fatalities due to the novel coronavirus disease. It’s an alarming situation. In a city like Mumbai, patients can’t get hospital beds or ambulance services. Some have died while trying to shift from one hospital to another,’’ said Fadnavis, after meeting the Governor.He added, “Farmers are in a dire situation with their rabi harvest remaining unsold. Migrant labourers are walking back home while risking their lives. We have made several representations to the government about these issues.”Fadnavis also said that instead of writing to Prime Minister Narendra Modi all the time, NCP chief Sharad Pawar should sometimes write to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to help the common people.The move is part of BJP’s ‘Maharashtra Bachao’ (Save Maharashtra) protest, launched on Tuesday, to highlight the state’s ‘ineffectual tackling’ of Covid-19. As part of the protest, party leaders will be sending similar representations at the district level to collectors. On Wednesday, BJP will hold a demonstration, where party workers will hold protest slates against the government, outside their houses.However, Congress alleged that the BJP was trying to play politics amidst a pandemic.Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant said, “This is not ‘Maharashtra Bachao’ but a ‘Maharashtra Virodhi’ (Anti Maharashtra) protest by the opposition party. Fadnavis said that he did not see any efforts taken by the state to send migrant labourers home. For his information, we have sent 2.3 lakh labourers in 19,353 state undertaking buses.’’He also alleged that Maharashtra BJP’s official Twitter account had released a one-month-old video about a protest in a local Shushrusha hospital to create animosity and anger amongst the public.“The home minister should take action against them for releasing old videos with an agenda to create trouble,’’ Sawant added.Fadnavis said, “I do not know about the video and if this is indeed an old video released mischievously, we will take action against the concerned member. We don’t want to do politics amidst a pandemic.’’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-is-not-handling-crisis-well-maharashtra-bjp/story-bxlFCFog3aygURRq9rqRuJ.html
20-05-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC strikes down payment of ₹303 cr to firm for Balganga dam works||In a major reprieve for City and Industrial Development Corporation (CIDCO) and the Konkan Irrigation Development Corporation (KIDC), the Bombay high court on Tuesday struck down a decision directing them to pay a sum of Rs 303 crore to FA Enterprises towards unpaid bills for construction of Balganga dam in Raigad district.Justice RD Dhanuka struck down the arbitral award dated April 3, 2019, on the ground that it was patently illegal and legally unsustainable. The judge noted FA Enterprises could not prove most of its claims independently, but the majority members (three out of five) of the tribunal accepted the claims on the basis of communications issued by some KIDC officers, who are under the cloud of suspicion.In January 2009, the government decided to construct Balganga dam at Niphad in Pen tehsil of Raigad district for catering drinking water requirements of some CIDCO areas and therefore CIDCO was to fund the project, initially estimated to cost Rs 353.89 crore. However, five months later the work was allotted to FA Enterprises for Rs 495.45 crore and on June 10, 2011, the cost of the project was revised to Rs 1,220 crore. The dispute started the same year after CIDCO officers started disputing the project cost and appointed the body’s own experts to ascertain the cost.FA Enterprises had then moved high court invoking the arbitration clause in its agreement with the authorities. Accordingly, the arbitral panel was formed, comprising one representative each of the state government, KIDC, the CIDCO and FA Enterprises. The presiding member was appointed by the high court.The contractor had claimed an amount of Rs 536.56 crore, including Rs 186.89 crore towards a particular bill. Both KIDC and CIDCO had strenuously opposed the claim.On April 3, 2019, three members of the tribunal passed a majority award directing the KIDC to pay to the claimant a sum of Rs 303 crore to the contractor firm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-strikes-down-payment-of-303-cr-to-firm-for-balganga-dam-works/story-3jZeKhRYH3heB2GoT2Yh4I.html
20-05-2020||City||1991 ABDUCTION CASE: 4 retired cops get anticipatory bail, directed to join investigation||A local court on Tuesday granted anticipatory bail to four retired policemen, booked along with former Punjab director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini in a case related to the disappearance of Balwant Singh Multani, a Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation (CITCO) employee, in 1991.The court of additional district and sessions judge Monika Goyal also directed the accused -- sub-inspectors Har Sahai Sharma, Jagir Singh and Anoop Singh, and assistant sub-inspector Kuldip Singh -- to join investigation within seven days and furnish personal bail bonds of Rs 50,000 with one surety each.They have been asked to surrender their passports and not to leave the country without prior permission of the court.Saini has already joined investigations after getting anticipatory bail from the court last week.“The case is more than 29 years old and the complainant kept mum for such a long time. The custodial interrogation of the applicants is not required,” the court ruled.Defence counsel HS Dhanoa had contended that all the four cops had retired from Chandigarh Police with “unblemished carrier” of about 37-38 years. The court in its order said, “Prima facie all the accused had acted as per law and conducted the proceedings in the FIR, but whether they were part of the bigger conspiracy, in which Balwant Singh Multani was picked up illegally and was afterwards eliminated is matter of evidence.”The court also pointed out that since December 7, 2011 (when the Supreme Court dismissed the case against Saini), no action has been taken by any family member of the victim.COURT QUESTIONS REGISTRATION OF FIR IN MATAUR“The allegations against the applicants (accused retired policemen) pertain to their act and conduct at police station Sector 17, Chandigarh, or at police station Qadian, thus there are serious doubts regarding the jurisdiction of police station Mataur,” the court said.Multani was allegedly picked up by two officers after a terrorist attack on Saini, then SSP, Chandigarh, in which four policemen in his security posse were killed. The police later claimed that Multani had escaped from the custody of Qadian police.A case was registered under Sections 364 (kidnapping or abduction in order to murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence), 344 (wrongful confinement), 330 (voluntarily causing hurt to exhort confession) and 120 (B) (criminal conspiracy) in Mohali on May 6 on the basis of a complaint filed by Multani’s brother Palwinder Singh Multani.Former DGP Saini, former DSP Baldev Singh Saini, inspector Satvir Singh, then sub-inspectors Har Sahai Sharma, Jagir Singh and Anoop Singh, and then ASI Kuldip Singh were booked in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1991-abduction-case-4-retired-cops-get-anticipatory-bail-directed-to-join-investigation/story-IbXMPCnkCD7eQMVayOx7CI.html
20-05-2020||City||Zurich International gets security clearance to develop Jewar airport||Greater Noida: The Zurich Airport International AG on Tuesday got the security clearance from the Union ministry of home affairs to develop the Noida International Greenfield Airport at Jewar in Greater Noida, said senior officials of the Uttar Pradesh government.The Jewar airport concessionaire -- Zurich International and special purpose vehicle -- the Yamuna International Airport Private Limited had applied for security clearance on January 30 this year.SP Goyal, principal secretary with UP chief minister’s office (CMO), expressed happiness over this development.“Glad to share that Zurich Airport International AG has got security clearance for the development of the Noida International Greenfield airport at Jewar,” said Goyal in a tweet.After the security clearance is given to Zurich International and Yamuna International Airport, the Noida International Airport Limited (NIAL) will sign concessionaire agreement with the developer.“Once the agreement is signed, the work at the site will be started to develop the Jewar airport,” said an official from NIAL, requesting anonymity.The work at the project was scheduled to start by April-end this year.The UP government, NIAL, Zurich International and others were eagerly waiting for the clearance since January this year.A special purpose vehicle was formed on the lines of Delhi Intentional Airport Limited (DIAL) in order to start work at the Jewar airport project. The YIAPL will be responsible for the development and the operations of the Noida International Greenfield Airport at Jewar.On January 1, 2020, the project monitoring and implementation committee had asked Zurich International AG to form a special purpose vehicle before January 31 this year.“The development of an airport project could not have started before getting the security clearances and the signing of the agreement,” said the official.NIAL is a UP government agency which was formed to supervise the airport development. Apart from the UP government, the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida), the Greater Noida authority, as well as the Noida authority, have stakes in the NIAL.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/zurich-international-gets-security-clearance-to-develop-jewar-airport/story-a3bTZoIqsO0HHH2gLM9BQN.html
20-05-2020||City||Locust attack alert leaves Punjab cotton, paddy growers worried||An alert by the Union agriculture ministry of a possible locust attack in Punjab, particularly the Malwa region, in the coming months has sent the cotton and paddy growers into a tizzy. The Locust Warning Organisation (LWO), a subsidiary of the central ministry, has identified Fazilka district, which shares the boundary with the neighbouring state of Rajasthan as well as Pakistan, as the most vulnerable to attacks by swarms of migratory pests that target vegetation. KL Gurjar, LWO deputy director and national coordinator on mitigating locust attacks, said the Sarwar Khuian block in Fazilka is under the constant watch of the state and central agencies.He said the swarms of locusts are invading from Pakistan as a result of which Rajasthan districts such as Barmer, Jaipur, Jaisalmer and Sriganganagar have been hit.“The Sarwar Khuian area near Abohar town has faced at least five locust attacks since April 11 and it may escalate in the next three months. Presently, movement of the locust is spotted from Rajasthan towards Neemuch in Madhya Pradesh. The agriculture authorities in Punjab have been sounded about the possibility of locust invasion,” said Gurjar.Gurjar said farmers should avoid using drum beats or other means to chase away locusts during the night hours.“Locusts have a natural tendency to rest on trees at night and then attack crops in the daytime. If farmers allow locust to settle at one place, the pest can be eliminated effectively with pesticides. Presently, immature locusts are active and they can harm vegetation,” he added.Fazilka chief agriculture officer Manjit Singh said of about 50,000 hectare land under cultivation in Sarwar Khuian, cotton is sown on 36,000 hectares. “It is a matter of concern as cotton is being sown in the area and swarm attack on growing plants will impact the farmers. Following the LWO advisory, the district administration has roped in the Border Security Force (BSF) to maintain a constant watch to eliminate locusts. A sizeable cultivable land in Sarwar Khuian is located across the border fence and pest control measures have been taken,” he added.State agriculture director Sutantar Kumar Airi said the department will provide ample stock of pesticides at the district level this week.“We are ready for any emergency situation caused by locust swarms. A special monitoring team is working in Fazilka in coordination with teams of Rajasthan and central agencies,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/locust-attack-alert-leaves-punjab-cotton-paddy-growers-worried/story-4sOhWnjdN7t9wzqaImoL1I.html
20-05-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Another day of over 2,000 cases in state; tally 37,136||Maharashtra on Tuesday continued to record more than 2,000 coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases as it registered 2,127 new infections, taking the total to 37,136. According to officials, reconciliation of figures with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) portal is still in process, resulting in a difference in the cumulative figures.The state also registered 76 deaths, bringing its toll to 1,325. However, 32 deaths were reported in the past 24 hours, while the remaining 44 happened between April 30 and May 16, the state health department said.Of the new cases, Mumbai recorded 1,411 new infections, taking the city tally to 22,746. while Thane, Navi Mumbai and Pune recorded 112, 122 and 139 new infections, respectively.On Tuesday, Maharashtra also saw its highest number of discharges in a single day with 1,202 people sent home after recovery, the state health department said. So far, 9,639 people have recovered and discharged from the hospitals. State health minister Rajesh Tope said that the recovery rate of Maharashtra is 25%.The state has added 21,020 Covid-19 cases in the past 14 days. It also clocked over 2,000 cases in the past three consecutive days. An average of 1,500 cases daily is added during the two-week period.Maharashtra is witnessing a significant rise in Covid-19 cases since May 6, as it has been reporting over 1,000 cases on a daily basis. But the health department official denied that the state has reached the community transmission stage yet as the growth in cases is not exponential.A senior health department official said that another incubation cycle is underway, which has led to a spike in number. “There is another 14-day incubation cycle till around May 31. The spike will come under control and the curve could start to go down after that,” the official, who wished to remain anonymous, said.Meanwhile, the Maharashtra government on Tuesday announced categorisation of various areas into red and non-red zones for the purpose of allowing or restricting business and other activities during the fourth phase of the lockdown till May 31 in view of the coronavirus pandemic. It also issued guidelines for these zones that would come into effect from May 22. Earlier, districts in the state were categorized into three zones-- red, orange and green.The municipal corporations within the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) —that includes Mumbai, Thane and the surrounding areas — as well as civic bodies of Pune, Solapur, Aurangabad, Malegaon, Nashik, Dhule, Jalgaon, Akola and Amravati fall in the red zone, the order said. While the remaining areas of the state are categoriSed as non-red zone and have been give more relaxation in terms of opening up businesses and other activities.Tope said that the restrictions in red zone have not been relaxed as the cases are increasing on a daily basis. “In red zone, we have kept curbs as they were because today’s cases are reported from several containment areas of the red zone. Public transport, Metro, inter-district buses, among others, are still not operational across both categories. The only change in the red zone is that people can now order food for takeaway from restaurants in the red zone,” Tope said in a Facebook Live address.While the revised guidelines don’t allow malls and shops selling non-essentials to open in red zones, e-commerce activity for essential and non-essential items is allowed. Private offices are not allowed to reopen in red zones and only 5 % of the staff are allowed in government offices.The state government is currently focused on reviving economic activities in the state that had come to a grinding halt in the past 50 days. Industries and other business activities have been opened in the non-red zone area of the state.“Industries should begin. And therefore in the non-red zone, we have opened up mostly all industries and other businesses. However, precautions have to be taken; social distancing, masks etc. Bus travel within the district is allowed. Within the non-red zone, private vehicle movement is also allowed, except between 7pm and 7am. Restaurants, shops, workplaces, among others, in non-red zone can remain open,” Tope said. However, public gatherings, religious gatherings are still not allowed in the non-red zone too.The minister said that barring Mumbai, the health infrastructure to treat Covid-19 patients is up to the mark and there is no shortage of the beds. “Even in Mumbai, the ICU beds currently are equal to existing number of patients. Keeping the potential shortage in mind, we are augmenting the bed availability in the city to 1 lakh beds from the existing capacity of 60,000 with the help of additional facilities at BKC, Worli and Goregaon. The bed capacity in the Dedicated Covid Health Centres (DCHC) in the city will be ramped up to 15,000 and the number of ICU beds will rise to 2,000. We have issued the notification, making it mandatory to the private hospitals to use 80% of their beds for Covid-19 patients at the rates decided by rate control laws,” he said.Tope said that the state was roping in private medical practitioners to ramp up the availability of the expertise. He said that the committee headed by the chief secretary has been coordinating with private doctors and their organisations for roping in their services ahead of the monsoon.The minister said that the chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has given them permission to fill up vacant posts in public health, medical education and health departments of the civic bodies and the process will soon begin. “We will recruit the doctors and health workers, including 17,000 in the public health department, in the next couple of months,” he said.Tope asserted that although the number of patients is on the continuous rise, there was no need to worry as the mortality rate has dropped to 3.2% and the doubling rate has improved to more than 14 days. “The recovery rate, too, has reached 25% as 9,639 patients have been discharged till today after their full recovery. The high rate of addition of the patients is owing to the highest number of tests being conducted in the state. We have a daily capacity of 15,000 tests through 67 laboratories,” he said.He has also warned people against the ill treatment accorded to patients or the people travelling from the cities like Mumbai and Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-another-day-of-over-2-000-cases-in-state-tally-37-136/story-V4YaBfIVgwrpvCys1oLXQM.html
20-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab extends deadline for paying property tax till June 30||The Punjab local bodies department on Tuesday decided to extend the deadline to pay the outstanding house or property tax without any penalty till June 30.The extension has been taken in view of the hardships being faced by people due to the global pandemic. Likewise, the time limit of one-time settlement (OTS) policy for recovery of arrears of water and sewerage charges in the urban local bodies of the state has been extended up to June 30, local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra said in a statement.Mohindra said as per the new policy, property owners, who failed to deposit the house tax or the property tax, can now deposit the principal amount in lumpsum with the rebate at the rate of 10% of the amount till June 30. “Those who fail to deposit the house tax or property tax by June 30 can deposit the principal amount along with penalty at the rate of 10 percent thereafter, within next three months,” he said.The minister further said persons, who still fail to deposit the due amount within the extended period, will be liable to pay a penalty at the rate of 20% on the amount due along with interest at the rate of 18% from the date it became due till the date of its realisation. Similarly, the time limit of OTS policy for recovery of arrears of water and sewerage charges in the urban local bodies of the state has also been extended. “This extension begins from the expiration of the time allowed vide earlier notification dated February 12,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-extends-deadline-for-paying-property-tax-till-june-30/story-U1RW8ARTwmn1j81hlaRZyN.html
20-05-2020||City||Gurdas Singh Badal’s bhog ceremony held, locals, politicians pay tributes||Political, social leaders and people from all walks of life paid tributes to Gurdas Singh Badal, former MP and father of Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal, during the bhog ceremony at Badal village in Muktsar on Tuesday.The former MP had passed away at the age of 90 after brief illness.Manpreet said that both his parents passed away in a short span of time, which is an irreparable loss for him and the family.“With the prayers of my mother and wisdom I got from my father, I have achieved this position in life. My father was deeply connected with common people,” he said.He added that he will follow to the footsteps and principles of his father. “I vow to remain committed to the ideals and principles laid down by my father,” he said.Family members who were present at the bhog ceremony included former CM Parkash Singh Badal, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal, Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal, Aadesh Partap Singh Kairon, Deepinder Singh Badal, MaheshInder Singh Badal, Vinu Badal, Parneet Kaur, and Jaijeet Singh Johal.Congress MLAs Parminder Singh Pinky, Gurkirat Singh Kotli, Randeep Singh Nabha, Lakhbir Singh Lakha, Gurpreet Singh GP and Rakesh Pandey, AAP MLA Baljinder Kaur, chief principal secretary to CM Suresh Kumar, additional chief secretary Vini Mahajan, Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta, principal secretary to CM Tejveer Singh, special principal secretary to CM Gurkirat Kirpal Singh, SAD Rajya Sabha MP Balwinder Singh Bhunder and party leader Sikander Singh Maluka were also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurdas-singh-badal-s-bhog-ceremony-held-locals-politicians-pay-tributes/story-G8Y8jWeo4ipir6efzeHicN.html
20-05-2020||City||ASI tells judge ‘cops have right to thrash accused’, gets notice||Taking exception to the statement of an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) that “police have every right to give beatings to the accused at the time of his arrest”, the additional district and sessions judge, Jalandhar, on Tuesday issued a show-cause notice to the cop for display of intemperate conduct in the courtroom.The incident took place when the judge, Parminder Singh Grewal, was hearing the anticipatory bail plea of Parminder Kumar Mehmi, father of Amol Mehmi who allegedly dragged Mulak Raj, an ASI, on his car bonnet on May 2 during curfew. Amol, who was arrested earlier, was granted bail on May 13. Parminder Kumar along with his son was charged with attempt to murder and sections. On Tuesday, ASI Surjit Singh, who brought case file to the court, made the remark when the judge asked him whether the police beat Amol Mehmi up at the time of his arrest.The judge also found that the ASI spoke in a loud manner as if he was shouting in the courtroom. The court directed Surjit Singh to file the reply on the next date of hearing on May 21 as to why necessary legal proceedings should not be initiated against him.The judge also directed Jalandhar police commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar to depute a responsible official not below the rank of a superintendent of police (SP) to assist the court in the case as “lower rank officials like ASI Surjit Singh do not know how to behave”. The court observed ASI Surjit’s behaviour was highly reprehensible which is not expected from a member of the police force. “It also shows that the cop has no regard for the rule of law and he considered that he and police are law unto themselves,” the judge said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/asi-tells-judge-cops-have-right-to-thrash-accused-gets-notice/story-q1GFqQlkpfd5pVUqSi7p5H.html
20-05-2020||Chandigarh||SAD asks Captain to order probe into PPE kit purchase ‘scam’||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Tuesday asked chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh to hold a high-level inquiry into the alleged scams involving purchase of PPE kits and N-95 masks.Referring to protests by doctors of Amritsar Government Medical College and the entire staff of the Ludhiana civil hospital against sub-standard safety kits, SAD leader Dr Daljit Singh Cheema asked the chief minister to hold a time-bound inquiry into the purchase of PPE kits, gloves and masks.The Akali leader said sub-standard PPE kits and N-95 masks should be returned to the suppliers and pressure be put on them to replace the same with quality material. “The entire process of purchasing this material should also be made more transparent and samples of PPE kits should be obtained in advance from the companies concerned before orders are placed,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sad-asks-captain-to-order-probe-into-ppe-kit-purchase-scam/story-JGmUZh2lh9d3DA9DKxF8xL.html
20-05-2020||City||Missing liquor case: Haryana probe team visits Sonepat godown, police recount bottles||The three member special enquiry team (SET) formed to investigate the missing liquor case visited the Kharkhauda godown on Tuesday.The state government had constituted the SET after 5,500 boxes of liquor went missing from the godown owned by illicit liquor kingpin Bhupinder Singh’s mother two weeks ago.Investigation head TC Gupta, along with additional director general of police (vigilance) Subhash Yadav and additional excise and taxation commissioner Vijay Singh, inspected some files related to the case at the excise and taxation office, said Sonepat superintendent of police Jashandeep Randhawa.A police officer said the SET sought the record of total seized liquor stored at the godown and the quantity that went missing during the lockdown from the excise and taxation officials.The three-member probe team and Sonepat police are probing the role of some liquor traders, two former SHOs, some policemen and excise officials in the scam. Two former Kharkhauda SHOs, who were suspended two weeks ago for their alleged role in the case, are on the run, and the police are trying to nab them. The SET will have to submit its report by May 30 to the state government.SP Randhawa said the SET has asked the police to recount the bottles at the Kharkhauda godown.“The police will be done recounting the liquor bottles at the godown in three to four days,” the SP added.Four days ago, the main accused in the case, Bhupinder Singh, who was in police custody, was admitted to the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences, Rohtak, after he complained of chest pain.“During interrogation, the accused had revealed that he along with few other traders used to bring liquor from Punjab’s Rajpura at low rates and sell the same using fake labels in other parts of the country. The liquor traders confessed that they used to print fake bills for the liquor consignments and that some cops were also involved in the scam,” the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/missing-liquor-case-haryana-probe-team-visits-sonepat-godown-police-recount-bottles/story-ETapAqimlRDzyDUHMZfruN.html
20-05-2020||City||Hisar: One arrested in RPF SI murder case||The government railway police have arrested a youth in connection with the murder of an RPF sub-inspector in Uklana town.RPF police post in-charge Manish Sharma was shot dead on Monday night, when he, along with his team, had gone to investigate a scuffle that took place near the tracks.The police have arrested Sandeep, a historysheeter accused in 14 criminal cases, who was out on bail.Police spokesperson said five persons — Sandeep, Pawan, Sheila, Fauji and their one unidentified accomplice — were booked for the murder of sub-inspector Manish Sharma. GRP SHO Pradeep said Sandeep has been arrested, but the other accused were still at large.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hisar-one-arrested-in-rpf-si-murder-case/story-Gsw0tPhW2do0LIiiK92OCJ.html
20-05-2020||Mumbai||Curbs to stay in Maharashtra red zones||Two days after the Centre issued guidelines for the fourth phase of the lockdown which began on May 18, the Maharashtra government extended more relaxations to rural and semi-urban areas, excluding them from the existing red zones. The existing orange and green zones are now ‘non-red zones’ and almost all activities in these areas have been opened up, state health minister Rajesh Tope said. While commercial and other activities are allowed in non-red zones, the restrictions imposed earlier will continue in red zones. The revised guidelines will come into existence from May 22.The earlier colour-coded classification of district-level red zones has now been changed to municipal corporation level, restricting it to urban areas. While 18 of the 27 municipal corporations are in the red zone, the remaining are in non-red or green and orange zones, where more commercial and industrial activities are allowed. During the third lockdown, between May 4 and 17, 14 districts were in red zones with greater restrictions on activities. The change in the policy has brought down the population percentage in these zones from 6,55,82,498 (population of 12 districts) to 2,90,79,892 (population of 18 corporations according to 2011 census.)The 18 municipal corporations include nine from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (Mumbai, Thane, Kalyan-Dombivli, Navi Mumbai, Vasai-Virar, Panvel, Mira-Bhayandar, Bhiwandi-Nizampur and Ulhasnagar), and Pune, Solapur, Aurangabad, Malegaon, Nashik, Dhule, Jalgaon, Akola and Amravati.Red zones will continue to have stricter curbs, with only essential activities being allowed, besides a few non-essential activities, including a limited number of standalone shops, e-commerce of both essential and non-essential goods. Nagpur, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Nanded-Waghala, Kolhapur, Sangli-Miraj-Kupwada, Latur, Ahmednagar,Chandrapur, Parbhani the corporations are in non-red zones. A few corporations including Dhule, Jalgaon, Akola and Amravati have been added to the red zone list because of the surge in the cases, while Pimpri-Chinchwad has been excluded due to containment of the spread.Private offices will continue to remain shut in red zones, but will open in non-red zones. Government offices in red zones may operate at 5% staff and at full capacity in non-red zones. Containment zones are to be earmarked by municipal corporations and district collectors. It is mandatory for the district, civic authorities to consult with the chief secretary to earmark larger areas as the state wants containment zones restricted to only affected areas such as building, colony, mohalla.Malls and industrial units, which are not allowed to operate in red zones, will be allowed to carry out their maintenance and monsoon-related upkeep by keeping them open. “Industrial activities in non-red zones have been fully allowed, while other activities too are mostly been allowed. The curbs in red and containment zones will remain. People are expected to maintain the health protocols strictly in public and workplaces in the zones with relaxed curbs,” Tope said.Based on the guidelines issued by the Centre on Sunday, the state has allowed sports complexes, stadia and public open spaces in non-red zones to operate, except for group activities and entry of spectators. Intra-district activities in these zones have been allowed with a maximum 50% of passengers. The state is expected to take a call on inter-district transportation in these zones in the next few days. Markets and shops in these areas have been allowed to operate between 9am and 5pm.Liquor shops as well as non-essential shops have not been allowed in Mumbai. “Autorickshaw and taxi, aggregator services remain prohibited in red zones. Two- and four-wheelers are allowed only for essential services with the occupancy of 1 and 2+1 travellers respectively. Home delivery of essential, non-essential items by e-commerce services and food items by hotel and restaurants is allowed,” the order stated. “Using the power given under the central guidelines, we have narrowed the areas of red zones and freed up more area, which are not much affected. These areas will have more commercial-industrial activities. Inter-state transport facilities are unlikely to be allowed until May 31,” said an official from the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/curbs-to-stay-in-maharashtra-red-zones/story-YNyrdqfWJU4NCTWL5TwbYI.html
20-05-2020||Lucknow||IIT-K may begin animal trial of corona vaccine next month||The scientists of the department of Biological Science and Bioengineering at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT-K) who are developing an anti-corona vaccine, are likely to begin trial on animals next month. If the results are satisfactory, human trials would start in the next four months.IIT-K director professor Abhay Karindkar said that the work was presently in the research stage. But soon the research was expected to be completed.According to the professor in-charge of the Innovation and Incubation Cell of the IIT-K professor Amit Bandhyopadhyaya, two scientists of the bioengineering department, professor Sarvanan Matheswaran and professor Debendu Kumar Dass were carrying out research for developing two types of vaccines to check corona virus for the past two months.“The research has come to a stage when the developed vaccine would be put on trial on animals by next month. The discussion with the scientists of other Institutes is in progress for animal trial,” he added.In case the results proved satisfactory, necessary measures would be taken for its trial on human beings in the next four months.According to professor Amitabh, the scientists were developing two kinds of vaccines. One of the vaccines would produce anti bodies in human beings to check the corona infection and to fight it out .The other vaccine would effectively check the mutation of corona virus into different strains. At present most of the scientists were busy in developing anti-corona vaccine but they had not started research in this direction, he added. The spikes of corona 19 virus have S-1 and S-2 protein through which it comes into contact of human beings. The IIT-K scientists were working on S-2 protein, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/iit-k-may-begin-animal-trial-of-corona-vaccine-next-month/story-kkvJqnxbh7z8QV2BXzT8kO.html
20-05-2020||City||Khaira demands ₹1 crore, govt job for slain kabaddi player’s kin||Bholath MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira on Tuesday demanded ₹1 crore compensation and government job for kin of deceased kabaddi player and his injured friend.The Punjab Ekta Party (PEP) leader termed the killing of Arvinderjit Singh by assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Ramjeet Singh over a parking tiff as a state-sponsored murder by the cop.In the attack, the slain player’s friend Pardeep Singh had sustained two bullets and has been undergoing treatment at a private hospital. Kapurthala police had arrested the accused ASI and his friend Mangu for murder and cop was terminated from service.Khaira, however, said it was not enough and the chief minister should sympathise with the family and interact with them personally before announcing a government job for the Arvinderjit’s kin and injured friend with ₹1 crore compensation.Last week, inspector general of police (Jalandhar range) along with Kapurthala senior superintendent of police and family members of the deceased had held a joint press conference to counter the social media campaign against the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/khaira-demands-1-crore-govt-job-for-slain-kabaddi-player-s-kin/story-QMMVnXZTdlpzZjekhHDVTP.html
20-05-2020||Chandigarh||Ggm man moves Delhi HC, says Saral Haryana portal not user-friendly||Raising doubts on the efficiency of Saral Haryana web portal, used for issuing electronic passes for inter-state movement between Delhi and Haryana, a Gurgaon resident on Tuesday filed an intervention application in the Delhi high court seeking directions to Haryana government to allow the inter-state movement of advocates on identity cards issued by bar associations.The matter will be heard on Wednesday by a Delhi HC division bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad.Following an undertaking given by the Haryana government on May 14 that e-passes for inter-state movement of all persons engaged in providing essential services, including medical professionals, will be issued within 30 minutes of the receipt of the application, the Delhi high court had disposed of a public interest litigation (PIL). Each e-pass will be valid for the entire duration of the lockdown and can be used for multiple visits, the state government told the HC.The PIL had sought court directions to stop the Haryana government from restricting the inter-state movement of medical professionals.The applicant, Govind Swaroop Chaturvedi, a lawyer who practices in Delhi said in his intervening application that he was residing in Gurugram and has his chamber at Patiala House in New Delhi where his files have been lying consequent to sudden lockdown announced on March 23. Chaturvedi said in his application that since he was being stopped from entering Delhi without a movement pass, he tried to apply for electronic movement pass on May 18 at www.saralharyana.gov.in. However, he could not succeed even after wasting more than one and a half hours.“The website is not user-friendly. While uploading the identity card in pdf format from a laptop, the Saral Haryana website asks for uploading image files only. However, when the same was tried from a mobile phone, the website said that file size should be less than 500 KB,’’ the application reads.It is submitted that when the applicant asked his colleagues in Gurugram, it came to the fore that they also could not apply. In their case, the website itself did not open, the application said. Chaturvedi said he had tried to apply for an e-pass in April also but faced similar problems and could not even submit the application. If the same is not going to facilitate the movement of the majority of the affected advocates, no purpose is going to be achieved by the statement of the Haryana government before the HC.“Directions be given to the Haryana government to allow the vehicles of advocates in the national capital region (NCR) with stickers of bar associations of Delhi to enter the UT. This should be done instead of applying for an e-pass, which a cumbersome and difficult process requiring technical help. Additionally, valid identity cards of the advocates issued by bar associations could also be checked to allow entry,’’ the application said.The applicant said as per the new norms announced for the fourth phase of the lockdown, even inter-state buses are going to be operated by the Haryana government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ggm-man-moves-delhi-hc-says-saral-haryana-portal-not-user-friendly/story-S9emFzXSk64NZi1dgVG1cO.html
20-05-2020||Chandigarh||US deports 167 illegal Indian immigrants through special flight||As many as 167 Indians who had entered the United States (US) and were living illegally, have been deployed through a special chartered flight that landed at Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport in Amritsar on Tuesday.Of the 167 Indians deported, 71 are from Haryana and 67 from Punjab. The remaining hail from other states. The chartered flight, run by the ICE air operations, an air transportation arm of the US agency entrusted with the task to remove illegal migrants from the American soil, landed at 4pm at the Amritsar airport, where they were screened by the health department.As many as 92 Indian immigrants were detained by the US Customs and Border Protection personnel in Texas after they illegally entered the US from Mexico. There were 21 detentions from New York, and 22 each from Atlanta and San Francisco.Ajnala SDM Deepak Bhatia said all passengers are being sent to their respective districts in Punjab and those belonging to other states will be taken away by vehicles of their respective states.He said that everyone will be quarantined in their respective states and districts. “As many as 21 men have been taken to Swami Vivekanand Drug De-addiction and Rehabilitation Centre, a government quarantine centre in Amritsar for now. From here, youths of other regions will be sent to their respective districts,” said an official.PARENTS SEEK ACTION AGAINST TRAVEL AGENTSMother of Meetkamal Singh, 20, of Bholath in Kapurthala district, said, “A travel agent gave us assurance that he will take my son to Mexico from where he will help him enter the US and charged Rs 26 Lakh. My son went to Mexico on a six-month visitor visa on April 25. He told us that he crossed over to the US side by jumping the wall at border. However, he and others were caught.”“He told us that he was kept at a checkpost and the US personnel had asked him to be ready to be deported,” she said.“I am not concerned about the loss of money. I’m happy that my son has returned home safe. But he had to spend days in the US government’s custody under tough circumstances. He told us over the phone that he was beaten up. I appeal to all parents not to send their wards to the US in any illegal way through these travel agents,” she added.Father of another youth, Gursewak Singh of Mukatsar, said, “Strict action should be taken against the travel agent who charged Rs 21 Lakh from us and Rs 1 lakh extra for returning my son’s passport.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/us-deports-167-illegal-indian-immigrants-through-special-flight/story-pSG7mY5rvZVH1eFo0CHGuO.html
20-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab launches community transmission surveillance programme in four districts||The Punjab health department on Tuesday began collecting blood samples from people in four vulnerable districts under the ‘Community Transmission Surveillance Programme’ for conducting their ‘rapid antibody tests’ to find if the community transmission stage of Covid-19 has started in the state.As a part of a nationwide survey initiated by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the health department decided to collect samples from four districts of Punjab—Patiala, Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Gurdaspur, which have the maximum number of Covid-19 cases.“Punjab health department will send 400 samples from each district to the Chennai-based National Institute for Research to monitor the trends of the Covid-19 in community transmission. The blood samples will be tested through rapid antibody test kits and ELISA (enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay) test kits, developed by the National Institute of Virology, Pune,” said state health department spokesperson for Covid-19, Dr Rajesh Bhaskar.He added, “The department has collected 400 samples from Patiala while collection of samples in Ludhiana is in process. In the next phase, blood samples will be collected from Jalandhar, followed by Gurdaspur.”“We plan to complete the survey in a month. These four districts have been chosen as most of the cases reported in these areas were cases of community spread. Amritsar, with highest number of Covid-19 cases, was not included in the survey as most of the cases in the district pertained to Nanded-returnees and were not related to community spread,” Dr Bhaskar said.He said the state has also conducted random sampling in each district to find out if Covid-19 is spreading in community or not. On daily basis, over 100 people are being tested randomly in each district through pool testing, he added.“This survey is to understand how the transmission of infection has been so far and how it is taking place in the later stages. This will also reveal if a person, whose sample is being tested, was ever infected by Covid-19 or not. Even if the person is found negative, the study can show if he or she was infected with the disease in the last 20 days or not,” Dr Bhaskar said“Since most Covid-19 positive people in the country were asymptomatic, this survey will also help us find out if coronavirus has affected the healthy people, who do not know if they are infected. This will also give an idea about the transmission based on gender, age and socio-economic characteristics,” a health official, seeking anonymity, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-launches-community-transmission-surveillance-programme-in-four-districts/story-1wU8UfHvZ6TAh4SjduCKGJ.html
20-05-2020||Mumbai||Better to die in my ancestral village, says man walking 1,300km with kin||It is better to die in my native village in Kanpur district, then face death in Vasai, are the words of wheelchair-bound, Dilshad Khan, 54, who along with his wife, Ayesha Begum and teenage daughter, Zahreen, has decided walk 1,300 km to their hometown in Uttar Pradesh. Khan and his family were seen trudging along the highway in the scorching heat, near Chilar Phata, in Boisar.Khan served water to the workers at construction sites, for a living, whereas his wife and daughter lifted bricks and sand. “We earn Rs 1,200 per day. But the lockdown has rendered us jobless. We don’t have any money now even to survive,” he said.Khan moved to Mumbai in 2000. He worked in a factory as a labourer, but he lost his right leg in an accident. He was then thrown out of the job.On May 3, Khan and his family had applied for e-passes with the help of a friend, but due to technical reasons, his application was rejected. As he did not have the transit passes, the family was unable to board a train to UP from Vasai Road station.“We even contacted a trucker who agreed to drop us at the Kanpur border, but he charged Rs 5,000 per person. So, we decided to walk instead,” Khan said.Khan’s wife and daughter take turns in pushing the wheelchair. “It is tough for them, but we have no other alternative,” said Khan.The family plans to cover the 1,300 km distance in a span of 27 days. They have decided on covering only 50-60 km a day and rest under the shades of trees or in musafir khana (transit homes) if we are allowed entry. “I just pray that the wheelchair does not fail me. It has been loyal to me since the past 15 years. It would be difficult to get a spare part on the way, as all shops are shut. I want to die in my village. At least there I will get a decent burial in the presence of my relatives,” said Khan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/better-to-die-in-my-ancestral-village-says-man-walking-1-300km-with-kin/story-98efsFAV4rZWtk4V9fQxTI.html
20-05-2020||City||Ludhiana MC sets up call centre to help out migrants willing to go back home||At a time when migrants are facing trouble reaching the pick-up points and boarding the special trains being run to their home states, the municipal corporation (MC) has set up a call centre to make calls to the migrants, whose names are cleared by the district administration for travelling in trains.The centre is also apprising labourers of the pick-up points from where buses would ferry them to the railway station to avoid confusion. The centre has been set up at the meeting hall of MC headquarters (Zone A) office near Mata Rani Chowk.MC commissioner Kanwalpreet Kaur Brar said a team of 70 officials had been deputed at the call centre. She said, “The labourers register themselves on the government portal, www.covidhelp.punjab.gov.in, for moving back to their home states. Once the registration is made and migrants are selected, then calls are made to the shortlisted passengers.” She said the centre was also informing the administration about the actual number of people willing to travel to their home states. “As industrial activity has commenced in the city, several migrants, who had registered themselves to go back home, have dropped the idea and returned to their jobs,” said Brar. Brar said 10 special trains for labourers departed from Ludhiana for different destinations on Tuesday, and the number of trains will increase to 12 from Wednesday onwards. Each train ferries around 1,200 passengers.She said the Punjab government was paying for travel, food, water and pick-up service from designated points. The medical screening of all passengers was being done and a medical certificate was being issued to the labourers before they catch the trains, she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mc-sets-up-call-centre-to-help-out-migrants-willing-to-go-back-home/story-uBhkosuZ6egw88YP6VLpQO.html
20-05-2020||City||Sports activities to resume in Ludhiana from May 25||After staying at home for two months due to the lockdown, sportspersons will now be able to go out to resume practice.District sports officer (DSO) Ravinder Singh conducted a meeting on Tuesday with coaches of different games and announced to resume sports activities from May 25.The decision came after the district administration allowed organising sports activities without spectators. The DSO said that the coaches had been told to clean the grounds and halls and make a list of limited players who will be called for practice. “Players below the age of 12 will not be allowed to come. Meanwhile, the total players coming for training should not be more than 15 and they need permission from their parents,” he said, adding that games with physical contact, such as judo, will be avoided.“As Guru Nanak Stadium is nowadays occupied for screening migrants, who are returning home on special trains, the department is planning to allow athletic activities in some college ground. Later, when the administration will hand over the stadium, we will sanitise it before starting any sport activities there,” he said.Teja Singh Dhaliwal, general secretary, Punjab Basketball Association, said, “As of now, we will start with basic training and call a limited number of players to the academy. We will only train in the indoor court, which we are getting sanitised.”Meanwhile, swimming pools will continue to remain closed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sports-activities-to-resume-from-may-25-in-ludhiana/story-YEISfCWMR6sF30LX76ulaJ.html
20-05-2020||Noida||Congress’ buses yet to reach Noida||After the Uttar Pradesh government accepted Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s offer of 1,000 buses to send migrant workers stranded in different border areas of the state, not one was seen at the stations in Greater Noida or Noida. The Congress said they were caught in paperwork, a handiwork by the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the Centre and UP government.“At 11pm Monday, Uttar Pradesh officials wrote to us asking to send the buses to Lucknow complete with all papers like fitness certificate, pollution certificate, driving licence etc - by 10 am on Tuesday,” said Congress UP general secretary Virendra Singh Guddu. “And later, they asked us to send the buses to Noida’s Expo Mart in sector 62 instead, Ghaziabad’s Kaushambi and Sahibabad areas.” The party claims they had arranged 600 buses from Rajasthan and 400 from Delhi.“The ones from Rajasthan were on their way to Lucknow when they got orders to go to Noida’s sector 62. But at the Rajasthan-Agra border, they were stopped by the regional transport department despite having all required documents. The Delhi buses too were stopped at the Noida-Delhi despite having all documents. The BJP is playing cheap politics with poor migrants, who are forced to walk on roads in this scorching heat with their families and children. Our senior leaders are a protesting in Agra, and we are at the Noida-Delhi border with our buses. We will ensure buses reach Noida and Ghaziabad on Wednesday,” said Guddu.The Gautam Budh Nagar administration said that they expected these buses to arrive in the morning.“Our top officials in Lucknow informed us that these buses would arrive to pick up migrant labourers at the Expo Mart. When the did not arrive, we continued with our plan of using our designated buses to ferry migrant workers,” said Anil Kumar Singh, chief development officer, Gautam Budh Nagar, who is looking after the operation of sending migrants to hometowns. “Migrants can register via online helpline or at 180 and then we arrange adequate buses for them daily or trains.” He refused to comment on the Congress party allegations that their buses were stopped without valid reason.“Congress is playing politics with migrant workers’ suffering during this crisis which is very sad. Congress has sent buses which are not having required documents. It means they are not serious to help the migrants and needy. BJP and its workers are working day and night to help migrants and all who need it during this crisis,” said Dhirendra Singh BJP MLA from Jewar.Uttar Pradesh had sealed all its borders after 26 workers died in a road accident on Saturday. Migrant workers travelling in trucks and other vehicles and on foot would be asked to wait for buses or trains that the administration would arrange. It was then that Priyanka Gandhi, also party in-charge of UP (east) tweeted to the UP government with her request that was later accepted.On Tuesday, she tweeted: “UP government in its inquiry found that 879 out of 1049 buses have valid documents. Then they should allow these buses to operate. And our 500 buses are stopped are at border near Agra. And 300 buses are reaching Noida from Delhi. They should allow entry to buses having al documents. People are suffering we cannot wait.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/congress-buses-yet-to-reach-noida/story-PnLTx6iREksM8wNV7INShJ.html
20-05-2020||City||Councillor writes to Ludhiana MC chief, seeks report on CLU, EDC charges levied in 2019-20||In a letter to municipal corporation (MC) commissioner Kanwalpreet Kaur Brar, ward number 67 councillor Mamta Ashu has sought a report within two days from municipal town planner (MTP) Monica Anand on the collection of change of land use (CLU) and external development charges (EDC) against the building plans approved during the last fiscal. In January, the MC committee concerned had accused the building branch staff of levying different charges in every zone of the MC to favour builders and building owners. The committee had said MC officials had charged the rates approved by the state government in 2017 against many buildings, even though these rates were disapproved by the MC General House. Being a member of the MC committee, Mamta stated in the letter, “During the meeting of the committee held in January, committee members had sought a report from the MTP, but the report has still not been submitted. In that report, the MTP was also asked to list the orders of authorities concerned on the basis of which charges were collected from building owners.”“I have asked the MC chief to summon the report in two days and sought a meeting of the committee on May 26,” said Mamta. As per information, the state government had approved new CLU and EDC rates in 2017. But the MC House had rejected the same and officials were directed to continue charging the 2014 rates.The resolution rejecting the 2017 rates was then sent to the government that had directed MC to form a committee for finalising rates in December 2018.However, this information was allegedly concealed by the MC staff for allegedly benefitting builders and it is suspected the MC was levying both the rates (whichever is less) for favouring building owners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mamta-writes-to-mc-chief-seeks-report-on-clu-edc-charges-levied-in-2019-20/story-Q6zxpvVzFxCYQ46LQ7T6vK.html
20-05-2020||Chandigarh||Private schools can now collect fees in Chandigarh||Days after the meeting with the Independent Schools Association (ISA), the Chandigarh education department, on Tuesday, gave the go-ahead to private schools in the city to collect monthly fees from parents.The Chandigarh education department’s permission for fee collection comes despite the fact that more than 60 Chandigarh schools have not uploaded the mandatory balance sheets online. Prior to this, the education department had directed all recognised private unaided schools to reschedule the last date for depositing fees and funds for the 2020-21 session. They were asked to fix the last date at least a month in advance after reopening of school, so as not to inconvenience parents. They were also told they could not charge for late fees.However, it came to notice that despite the directive, many schools demanded fees from parents. Following this, the education department invoked the Punjab Fees Regulation Act, 2016, and ordered schools to upload their balance sheets online.Furthermore, ISA and seven other petitioners (schools) challenged the UT’s directive on fee deferment in the Punjab and Haryana High Court. In compliance with orders of the HC, a hearing was granted by education secretary Arun Kumar Gupta to private schools, following which Tuesday’s orders were issued.The orders make it binding on schools, that they will “neither stop payment of monthly salary nor reduce the existing total emolument of teaching and non-teaching staff.”It also says that, if any parent is unable to deposit the fee on time, the school concerned will consider their request on a case to case basis. “However, neither the name of any student is to be struck off, nor is the student to be deprived of online teaching on this account, during lockdown period,” reads the order.HS Mamik, chairman of ISA, said, “Already, payment of fees for two months is pending, which parents need to pay, after which we will begin charging monthly fees.”President Chandigarh Parents’ Association Nitin Goyal said, “Schools are now demanding full hiked fees from parents who have suffered massive financial losses. Not only has the administration not taken any action against defaulting schools for not uploading their balance sheets, but have even provided them extensions and leverages.”“Where is the respite to the middle class in today’s order? We have again ended up as victims,” he said.Commenting on non-compliance of the balance sheet order by schools, Rubinderjit Singh Brar, director of school education, said, “We will issue show cause notices next week because it involves many schools and we have to recheck details of each school.”BOX1. Only monthly tuition fees can be collected by 15th day of every month from June 2020 onward2. The fees for April and May is to be collected by May 31, 20203. No late fee is to be charged up to May 31, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/private-schools-can-now-collect-fees-in-chandigarh/story-yVUzbFNzJSA2ArpHJGXesK.html
20-05-2020||City||Parents protest against school asking for tuition, admission fee in Ludhiana||Flouting social distancing norms, over 100 parents held a protest outside Merry Mint Public High School, Amar Nagar, on Tuesday, alleging that the school authorities had been them asking to pay the tuition and admission fee for April and May.They wrote a letter to Punjab education minister Vijay Inder Singla, urging him to waive the fee for the two months. The parents also claimed that the school was charging thrice the amount for books, compared to the market rates.Gurpal Nagar resident, Rajni Khurana, whose son and daughter are enrolled in Classes 1 and 2, said, “We are asking the authorities not to charge the fee as the schools have been closed due to Covid-19. Since all the assignments are being sent online, what is the need to purchase books at this time of financial crisis? Moreover, they are charging three times the market price.” Another parent, Kulvinder Kaur, who has three children studying in Classes 4, 8 and 10, said, “The school administration is neither reducing the fee nor waiving it. They should at least consider reducing the tuition fee to half. When we met the principal, she offered to reduce it by ₹200 per month, which is not enough. Schools should not be charging for the services they have not provided for the last two months.” Principal Harpreet Kaur could not be reached for comments despite repeated attempts.LIP, STUDENTS PROTEST AGAINST PRIVATE SCHOOLSSlamming the state government for its failure to act against schools asking parents to submit the fee along with transportation charges for April, May and June; members of Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) and a few students of different schools staged a protest outside the deputy commissioner’s (DC) office on Tuesday. The students were holding placards, urging the state government to announce school fee waiver rather than announcing free smartphones for them. They claimed schools were warning them of their names being struck off the school rolls if the fee was not paidLIP chief spokesperson Gagandeep Singh Kainth said, “The state government has failed to pay heed to the problems being faced by parents. Families are facing trouble catering to their daily needs and the schools are demanding fee for three months. How can parents pay such lumpsum amounts at this time of crisis?” “The government should announce that no school should charge fee in the lockdown period,” he added. The protesters submitted a memorandum regarding their demands to the additional deputy commissioner (ADC) Iqbal Singh Sandhu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/parents-protest-against-school-asking-for-tuition-admission-fee-in-ludhiana/story-USWNj0RfvoegSIhfUuFRwI.html
20-05-2020||Chandigarh||Unappetising start to delivery of cooked food, sales dismal in Chandigarh||When UT administration, on Monday, permitted the home delivery of cooked food, it was anticipated to be a moment of cheer for restaurateurs, dhaba owners as well as those who have been craving their pizzas, burgers and kebabs. However, sales on Tuesday were paltry.Barely a few riders of app-based food delivery companies were spotted on roads on Tuesday. Prem Sagar, a delivery boy with Zomato, said many restaurants had still not opened as they were preparing their food. Another delivery boy with Swiggy, Ankush Kumar said, that like the previous days, they mostly delivered groceries.Outlets of food chains such as KFC and Domino’s were closed to entry. Ashish, the manager of KFC’s Sector-35 outlet said only three orders had been delivered by late noon. A Domino’s employee, of condition of anonymity, also said their sales were meagre compared to an average day before the lockdown.With business having gone bust for about two months now, several dine-in restaurants have adapted to provide home delivery. Indian Coffee House in Sector 17 was open to orders which were being delivered within the sector, mostly to offices, said assistant manager Virender Singh. Nik Bakers which did not deliver earlier, has begun home delivery for their cooked items.Meanwhile, some eateries preferred to stay closed, as food without the particular ambiance does not ‘feel’ the same they said. Proprietor of Oven Fresh Rohit Kumar said, “Oven Fresh has never delivered food before, and we are still hesitant. We will first renovate, then after a survey of the response, we will decide if we should start delivering.”Most people who order food regularly are still apprehensive. Sector 9 resident Anmol Gupta said, “It is hard to monitor what is going on in a restaurant so currently I feel uneasy about ordering food.” Himali Bhargav, who lives in Sector 27, said, “I feel uneasy about eating food not cooked before me especially in these times.”Sector 18 resident Gagandeep Seikhon said she is not likely to order for a month. “This phase is as the curfew is lifted is crucial, as there will be more infections. I won’t order till cases come down.”Takeaways are hardly going to help restaurants which have suffered huge losses, said Arvinder Pal Singh, president of Chandigarh Restaurants and Hotels Association. “Tuesday sales were not even 10% of an average day. The government should allow restaurants to open soon, with all safety procedures in place.”Hot Millions proprietor Amanbir Singh said the administration has capped the timings for delivery too early in the evening. “Sales will stabilise eventually, but with the 7pm cap, we can’t provide dinner, which is our biggest source of earning. There is no point allowing deliveries from 7am as hardly anyone orders breakfast.”Pal Dhaba in Sector 28, received only 10-12 orders on Tuesday. Owner Sunny Pal said they used to get a 100 orders a day. “Maybe because many people don’t eat non-vegetarian fare on Tuesdays. I think orders will go up on Wednesday as people get to know that deliveries have started,” Sunny Pal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/unappetising-start-to-delivery-of-cooked-food-sales-dismal-in-chandigarh/story-k4fQaupaXFGmeaVI3oBTMJ.html
20-05-2020||City||Non-functional streetlights: Ludhiana mayor stops payment of ₹3 crore to company||With a large number of light emitting diode (LED) streetlights still lying non-functional in different parts of the city, mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu has stopped the payment of ₹3 crore to Tata company for installation and maintenance of the lights. The mayor said the payment will be made only after the company repaired all the faulty lights.Company officials met the mayor at the Zone A office of the MC on Tuesday for getting the payment released. However, the mayor asked the officials to wait till an inspection was conducted to ensure that all the streetlights were functional.Sandhu said, “I had conducted an inspection on May 5 following complaints by residents and councillors that lights were lying non-functional in over 50% of the city area. During inspection, I found that the streetlights were non-functional even outside my camp office and MC commissioner Kanwalpreet Kaur Brar’s residence. Hence, I had directed the company to repair the lights by May 15. But, they failed to do so. So, we have stopped the payment. The payment will be released only after a fresh inspection.”Senior deputy mayor Sham Sundar Malhotra said, “The MC is supposed to make the payment to the company out of energy savings after the installation of LED lights in place of traditional ones. The proportion of energy-saving sharing (monetary value of savings) between the company and the MC is 85:15 (85% will go to the company and 15 to the MC). On this basis, if the lights remain non-functional, the savings will automatically increase and the company will get its benefit, while residents have to bear the brunt of non-functional streetlights.”A company official, requesting anonymity, said, “Most of the time, lights are damaged due to power theft as it leads to overloading. The MC has also not paid the required amount for updating the infrastructure. Only around ₹12 crore has been sanctioned against the over ₹50-crore demand. The recent delay in repairing the lights was due to the shortage of staff and material due to lockdown. However, lights are now functional in most parts of the city.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dysfunctional-streetlights-mayor-stops-payment-of-3-crore-to-company/story-6j99zvBFybo3x5I6rpUKvJ.html
20-05-2020||Delhi||All liquor shops, except those in malls, airport to reopen: Delhi govt||The Delhi government Tuesday allowed the opening of all liquor shops, except for those that are located in shopping malls and the airport. This came a day after the Delhi government scaled down restrictions in the fourth phase of the nationwide lockdown that kicked in on May 18 and will continue till May 31.The shops shall remain open from 9.30am to 6.30pm, read the order.There are 864 liquor shops in Delhi, of which around 600 will reopen now. This is apart from the 100 that had opened for business on May 4. The rest are located in containment zones, which include the airport and shopping malls, and cannot reopen under the guidelines issued by the Union home ministry, a senior official in the excise department said.The 850-odd restaurants in the city, which have a bar, have also not been allowed to sell liquor yet, though, under the new guidelines, their kitchen is now open for takeaway and the home delivery of food, the official said.Of the 700 liquor shops that can reopen, around 400 are under government departments, such as tourism and industrial and infrastructure development while the remaining 300 are private enterprises.“With the reopening of private vends, people will once again be able to avail of a much wider variety of Indian-manufactured foreign liquor, beer, wine, as well as imported liquor, after around two months of dry days,” a government official said.While the government-run shops can start functioning from Wednesday after thorough sanitisation, the private ones have been given time till Friday to complete stock management formalities, sanitisation, arranging staff and social distancing measures, excise officials said.The private enterprises that can operate now also include general stores and department stores that have alcohol counters. But they will have to adhere to the timings and the odd-even rule for shops in case they are located in markets or commercial spaces, the senior excise official said.Of the 700 liquor shops that can reopen, around 200 are stand-alone shops (those not located in market clusters), which can open all days of the week. The remaining 500 are located in markets and, hence, they will have to follow the odd-even rule, which allows shops allocated odd and even numbers to open on alternate dates.In the last two weeks, there have been massive crowds and rampant violation of social distancing norms around the 100 or so liquor shops in Delhi that were open for business, often leading the police and district administration to crack down.Vinod Giri, director-general of the Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies, welcomed the move calling it a “win-win situation” for stakeholders. He said, “It will help stabilise the industry. It will help the government earn revenue. It will help customers buy liquor of their choice, which several of them have not been able to do in the past several days either due to the massive rush or inadequate stocks. Having more shops open would also help ensure better social distancing.”The e-coupon system that was introduced by the Delhi government last week would continue. Under this system, individuals can apply online and avail of time slots to visit a designated liquor shop and purchase liquor without having to join a queue.The government, however, has done away with the proposal of the home delivery of liquor, for now, a senior government official said.Also, the “special corona fee” of 70% on the MRP of liquor would continue to apply.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/all-liquor-shops-except-those-in-malls-airport-to-reopen-delhi-govt/story-8nwyktcXxwmUpnZRrpAw5J.html
20-05-2020||Delhi||Bootleggers use the aged, the disabled to evade cops||With 90% of all liquor vends across Delhi closed since March 25, bootleggers have been coming up with innovative ways to smuggle the spirits into the capital city.Although all shops were shut since March 25, on May 4, the government had allowed 100 of the 864 liquor stores in Delhi to reopen. But they were in no way able to manage the huge crowds that descended on them in blatant violation of all social distancing norms. Experts say the huge profit margins and the wide demand-supply gap has bootleggers moving in to fill the void. From hiring the elderly or disabled people as carriers to transporting liquor hidden in vegetable carts, the bootleggers over the last two months used every trick in their book to milk the dry days while avoiding arrest. The Narela police on April 26 arrested a 75-year-old woman for smuggling liquor from Sonepat, Haryana. The woman told police she was paid ₹2,000 to sit as a pillion rider on a scooter to avoid suspicion. While the young man, who hired her, abandoned the scooter on seeing the police and fled, the elderly woman could not run and was caught. Police found at least 100 bottles of liquor with her, each containing about 330ml. Hoping that police would not stop disabled persons for checking, a bootlegger roped in a physically disabled person. When police stopped the two at Nangloi on April 28, they found 90 bottles of liquor, each bottle measuring 180ml, smuggled from Bahadurgarh, Haryana. The 40-year-old disabled person told police that a friend had promised him ₹500 for each trip he made. Last month, police registered at least 300 cases under the Excise Act and also seized around 30,000 bottles of liquor. Delhi Police officers said with the government opening all shops, except those in malls and containment zones, there will be a reduction in bootlegging. In the last one month, police found bootleggers smuggling liquor in vehicles carrying loads of cauliflower, cucumber an other vegetables. On May 2, when police stopped an e-rickshaw loaded with cucumbers, the driver’s behaviour aroused suspicion, prompting the police to carefully sift through the cucumbers. They found 580 bottles hidden inside the cucumbers. In Chhawla, two men were arrested for using a private ambulance to smuggle 913 liquor bottles. Deputy commissioner of police(Dwarka) Anto Alphonso, said the two were paid ₹2,000 each by the owner of the ambulance vehicle to ferry the contraband.It isn’t just vehicles or unusual carriers. Until last week, when movement of all persons except those involved in essential services, restricted across the city, a 36-year-old man came up with the idea of getting alcohol to his buyers in south Delhi while posing as a Good Samaritan out to distribute food to the underprivileged. He was arrested from Jaitpur on May 10.Retired IPS officer Vikram Singh, who was the director general of Uttar Pradesh Police, said when there is a prohibition, criminals do come up with innovative ways to beat it. “Liquor was unavailable until recently. The profit margins for a smuggled bottle is very high so they find innovative means to smuggle them,” he said.Delhi Police spokesperson Mandeep Randhawa said even so, police are one step ahead of them. “Our personnel on the ground are alert and keep an eye on every vehicle passing through the border. Apart from acting on tipoffs we also conduct random checks on suspicious vehicles. We rely on intelligence from our sources to catch these smugglers. Bootleggers may come up with innovative ways but we are ahead of them. This is the reason why we have busted illicit liquor transported in ambulances, vegetable carts, milk canisters.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/bootleggers-use-the-aged-the-disabled-to-evade-cops/story-s5JUWrYz9xNmSxNAPyD5DJ.html
20-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s transport network sputters back to life after reopening hiccups||After nearly two months of being off the roads, Delhi’s public transport system sputtered back to life Tuesday. The empty roads got busier as the day progressed though many complained of long waits for buses and autos fleecing them. On Tuesday, the first day after the state government relaxed lockdown norms (following the Centre doing so on Sunday evening), fewer cabs were on the roads, most bus stops didn’t have the promised marshals , and not everyone who wanted to travel by bus was screened with an infrared thermometer. According to reports from the Delhi government, the state transport utilities pressed more than 2,000 Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) buses and cluster buses into service on Tuesday from its fleet of 6,487 buses.Transport minister Kailash Gahlot said the number of buses was low because around 1,400 buses are at the disposal of revenue and police departments for movement of migrants to railway stations and for law and order duties.“We are also facing an issue with the availability of bus drivers due to the curbs in neighbouring states. We hope to have more buses on the road in the coming days,” he said. Even as transport officials said the number of passengers who travelled in the state-run buses on Tuesday was only about 10% of the usual daily bus ridership of 3.2 million, commuters demanded more buses and an increase in frequency of trips. Many even questioned the government’s move to open all offices, industries and allow construction and other economic activities to resume citing that the public transport system was “grossly inadequate” to handle the load, which is going to increase with each passing day. The Metro service is still not allowed in the national capital. Only 1,650 marshals were deployed at bus stops on Tuesday, with the result that people queueing up at bus stops were seen voluntarily following the social distancing protocol. On Monday, the Delhi government had said it would deploy 4,000 marshals at 740 busy bus queue shelters to ensure social distancing.After visiting several bus stops and terminals in Delhi, HT found that the fewer number of buses, coupled with the rule that allowing only 20 passengers per bus, resulted in longer waiting periods for people at bus stops.Subhash Chand (62) waited for more than two hours at the Shivaji Park bus stand to board a bus to his home in Dwarka. He had an eye treatment at the Guru Nanak Eye Centre at Maharaja Ranjeet Singh Marg, after which around 1pm, he walked for about 35 minutes to reach the terminal.“There was no auto or e-rickshaw available to drop me at the bus terminal. It is so hot, and even at the terminal there was no respite. I have been waiting for two hours for the bus. In the morning, I reached the bus stop in Dwarka at 8am and was able to hop on one after an hour,” Chand said. On buses, stickers saying ‘do not sit’ have been pasted on every alternate seat. Tinku Mondal, who had arrived by a special passenger train from Howrah, West Bengal, said he waited for two hours before he could board a bus from Kapashera bus depot to go to the Delhi-Gurugram border. “I travelled from Sultanpuri to Punjabi Bagh by bus, then took an auto to AIIMS. At AIIMS, I waited for 1.5 hours for bus number 433 to Okhla to join work at my factory,” he said.  The bus queue shelters at Apollo Hospital, Okhla Tank, Ras Vihar, Sarita Vihar, Harkesh Nagar and Saraswati Kunj had marshals managing the people. Thermal screening of passengers was absent at a majority of the bus shelters across the city.“Today we have initiated the process to procure 1,000 contactless temperature checking devices. We did start thermal screening at a few select bus stops on Tuesday. But, the problem is that we have only a few devices at our disposal,” Gahlot said. Those who opted to travel by auto-rickshaws said they were overcharged by drivers or had to hire multiple autos to adhere to the Delhi government’s norm of one passenger per auto. Some autos, however, were seen carrying two passengers as well. Rajesh Gupta, a retired government employee, who had to go to Okhla from AIIMS, said the auto driver asked him for ₹350 for the ride. “It ride usually costs me about ₹150. I asked him to settle for ₹200-250, but he refused. So I had to wait for a bus for more than an hour to get home,” Gupta said. Cabs also resumed services on Tuesday, but very few were spotted on the roads. An official of cab aggregator service provider Ola, who did not want to be identified, said the number of bookings received from Delhi was lower when compared to the bookings they received before the outbreak of the pandemic. “I tried booking a cab and the app gave me a waiting time of around 15 minutes. But due to dynamic pricing mechanism, I had to pay about ₹40 more for my ride to Laxmi Nagar from South Extension,” Ruchira Tyagi, an employee at a designer apparel store in South Extension Part 2, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-transport-network-sputters-back-to-life/story-AHLcer8rCd8u28RAt3RHxJ.html
20-05-2020||Delhi||North corporation gets Rs 1.3 crore from IGL to repair cremation furnaces at Nigambodh Ghat||The North Delhi Municipal Corporation has received a fund of Rs 1.3 crore from Indraprastha Gas Limited (IGL) to repair its damaged CNG-based cremation furnaces at Nigambodh Ghat.The Delhi government has authorised only three crematoriums in the Capital to dispose of dead bodies of Covid-19 patients or those who had symptoms of the infection.Two of these are CNG-based: Nigambodh Ghat in Jamuna Bazaar, under the north corporation, and one in Punjabi Bagh, under the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC). The third is the electric crematorium on Lodhi Road under the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC).Besides these, five burial grounds for Muslim and Christian people, who die of Covid, have been approved at ITO, Mangolpuri, Madanpur Khadar and Shastri Park.While each CNG furnace is capable of processing only four bodies per day, they have been receiving up to 18 bodies for cremation as per Covid protocol daily. The Covid dead body disposal Standard Operating Procedures are followed for those who have died of the disease and suspected cases as well. “We are under a lot of pressure. We have six CNG-furnaces in Nigambodh Ghat, of which three were damaged and the rest functional. Till April, we were getting only four or five bodies for cremation with Covid protocol. The number has now gone up,” said Suman Gupta of the Nigambodh Ghat Sanchalan Samiti.For instance, on May 12, the crematorium got 16 such bodies, and on May 13 and 14, they got 18 bodies each, Gupta said. From May 15-17, it has been getting 13 bodies each day, he said.“This is why getting the other three dysfunctional furnaces running was important for us. Thankfully, we got Rs 1.3 crore from IGL,” said Vishal Mishra, another member of the Samiti. “We placed the work order on April 15 and started work on the furnaces today,” Dr. Ashok Rawat, municipal health officer of the north body said.An IGL spokesperson, who didn’t wish to be named, said, “We have provided about Rs 1.3 crore under Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and glad to have done our bit for the society in times of such a pandemic.” The Punjabi Bagh cremation facility has four CNG-operated furnaces out of which two were defunct till a few days ago. The load of cremating bodies was being shouldered by two furnaces, resulting in delays in cremation.“The two machines, which were under maintenance, have been repaired now, so all four furnaces are working. Now there is no pendency of bodies at the facility,” a senior SDMC official said.The official said in the last three days, 40 bodies of confirmed Covid and suspected patients were cremated here. According to central government guidelines, bodies of Covid-19 patients can be carried cremated at CNG furnaces only as it ensures “closed and complete burning.”Wood-based burning releases particulate matter in the air and is not recommended for patients with infectious diseases such as Covid or even tuberculosis. “As many as 13 bodies were received at the Punjabi Bagh facility on May 16. While 16 were cremated on May 17, 11 were received for funeral on May 18. The cremation was done without any delay,” the SDMC official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/north-corporation-gets-rs-1-3-crore-from-igl-to-repair-cremation-furnaces-at-nigambodh-ghat/story-M5bzd0iZ4VbCYt7H0Aud6O.html
20-05-2020||City||160 high-risk inmates to be shifted from Mandoli jail to Tihar||A high-powered committee, constituted to decongest prisons in the national capital, has resolved that all 160 high-risk prisoners lodged in jail number 15 in Mandoli prison, be shifted to the Tihar jail complex, to allow new entrants to the former to be lodged in separate cells in isolation. The move comes after 15 prisoners and one jail staffer in the Rohini prison complex tested positive for Covid-19 last week.In a meeting on May 18, Sandeep Goel, director general (prisons), told the committee precautions are being taken and all contacts of the infected persons are being traced.Justice Hima Kohli, chairman of the committee, had asked the DG (prisons) whether individual cells, which could be converted into isolation cells, were available in any prison, to allow new entrants at least 14 days of isolation, so as to keep others at bay from the potential threat of contracting Covid-19.Goel said jail 15 at Mandoli prison, which has an overall capacity of 280 prisoners, has 248 individual cells (with attached toilets). He also told the committee that Mandoli currently has 178 inmates, of whom 139 are under trial, 38 are convicts, and one is a detenue.“After transferring the existing inmates of Jail No 15, the same shall be available for keeping the new entrants in isolation cells/rooms. This shall take care of all the new male entrants who are above 21 years of age. It is made clear that fresh male inmates who are between 18 to 21 years of age and fresh women inmates shall continue to be kept in ‘ separate isolation wards at jail no 5 and 6 respectively at Tihar, in terms of the earlier resolution.“It is resolved that these new inmates shall be permitted to intermingle with other inmates only after keeping them in Isolation Wards for 14 days and before lodging them, they should be thermally screened and medically examined and in case of any medical necessity, their RT-PCR test be conducted,” the minutes of the meeting read.Goel also told the committee that steps are being taken to maintain social distancing and regular medical checkup of jail staff and inmates is being done through jail doctors who have been advised to inform jail superintendents if they find symptoms of Covid-19 in any inmate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/160-high-risk-inmates-to-be-shifted-from-mandoli-jail-to-tihar/story-MdLWVPAaSjnnM31aZVr4QJ.html
20-05-2020||Delhi||As Delhi returns to work, RWAs set guidelines for domestic help||While several residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) in the city have allowed domestic help to return to work, there are some which have or are in the process of putting in place rules for their movement within colonies. The Delhi government, in its order on Tuesday, had clearly stated that RWAs can’t ‘prevent persons from performing their services’.In some residential areas, RWAs have asked domestic help to show their Aadhaar Card to ascertain whether they are coming from containment zones and have requested an undertaking from residents as well. Some RWAs are also contemplating fixing timings for the entry of domestic help.In Vasant Kunj’s Sector A Pocket C, the RWA has allowed domestic help, but with a rider. “We have asked residents to place a request with the RWA to allow domestic help. We are not stopping anyone; we just want to know who is entering our society,” Vinay Kumar Gupta, the RWA president, said.In Alaknanda, which has over 10 residential apartment societies, most residents have decided to wait for some time before allowing domestic help to start work again. But some rules have been put in place for those who want to call domestic help at home.“For the elderly, working couples and whoever wants to call domestic help, different societies have put in place some basic rules. We are asking the help to show their Aadhaar cards at the gate so that we can ensure that they are not coming from containment zones. Some societies are issuing new ID cards while others are fixing timings for their entry. We are not stopping anyone, but we are taking these measures for everyone’s safety,” Poonam Arora, general secretary of the Federation of Alaknanda RWAs, said.The joint forum of 45 residential apartments in east Delhi’s Vasundhara Enclave issued a set of guidelines on Monday, allowing domestic help between 7 am and 11am only for those in “dire need”, such as elderly people and working couples.“Residents in their own safety interest might like to ensure that their domestic help works exclusively in their house [sic],” the guidelines stated.Shantanu Monga, who works in an IT firm and lives in Vasundhara Enclave, said, “Now, it’s become very difficult for us to manage on our own since we have to report back to work. Despite the government allowing domestic help, how can residential societies bar them? This is absolutely unacceptable.”But JP Sharma, the president of the forum, said, “ We have asked all apartment buildings not to stop residents from calling domestic help. We just want them to ensure they wear masks all the time, don’t roam around the premises after work and in no circumstances be allowed to visit in the evening,” he said.In Indraprastha Extension, Dwarka and Patparganj—these areas have a large number of apartment complexes—RWAs have allowed domestic help to resume work. “We have to live with Covid-19. We have just advised RWAs to ensure that the domestic help follow all hygiene measures and cover their faces,” Rejimon CK, a member of Dwarka Forum, said.While RWAs are doing their bit to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in localities, they said that the Delhi government should have roped them in for the effective implementations of its new norms. “Strangely, a bus driver/conductor, an auto driver, a shop keeper can be entrusted with this responsibility, but a duly elected body representing a residential area is looked at with doubt. It is high time that the government appreciates the role of the RWAs in propagating their point of view among the residents of the colonies,” Atul Goyal, president of URJA, a network of RWAs in Delhi, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/rwas-set-rules-for-domestic-help/story-kJZfeBofu4oi0df0enLxQN.html
20-05-2020||Delhi||Arvind Kejriwal asks Centre for 100 special trains to send migrant workers back||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has urged the central government to provide 100 shramik special trains to the Delhi government for sending back thousands of stranded migrant workers to their home states, senior officials in the chief minister’s office said on Tuesday.The chief minister’s demand came amid the ongoing blame game on the matter between the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said, “Till now, around 65,000 migrants from Delhi have been sent to their home states by trains. We are seeking permission from different states to send back their citizens stranded in Delhi.”However, the consent of destination states is not required for running Shramik special trains to ferry migrant workers, the ministry of railways said Tuesday, revising an earlier order that made it mandatory for both states to mutually agree to run the trains.Senior officials in the chief minister’s office said the government had received online applications from around 400,000 migrant workers in the city wanting to go back home. The highest number of them belong to Bihar and Uttar Pradesh.They said that so far, 59 special trains and over 200 buses had left Delhi in the past one week. The states and union territories covered include Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Rajasthan and Assam.“The government now plans to scale up the process and schedule trains on an hourly basis one after another if more trains are granted at the earliest. We are talking to more states,” an official said.AAP spokesperson and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh criticised the BJP-ruled Central government for its “deliberate reluctance” to send the poor back to their homes.“To send these four lakh migrants, we need 350 trains, but the BJP government is running 100 trains across the country, which shows their apathy towards solving this issue. The BJP sent luxury flights for those stuck in other countries, but they do not care for the poor people who are walking hundreds and thousands of kilometres barefoot. This shows the BJP is an anti-poor political party,” Singh said. The Delhi BJP, on the other hand, said the AAP government was responsible for the exodus of migrant workers from the Capital. Leader of opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri said the Central government had given 8kg wheat, 2kg rice and one kg pulses free to 72 lakh people of Delhi, but the AAP government failed to distribute the ration to all of the poor people.“Only ₹6.5 crore was spent by the Delhi government on ration distribution. Union food minister Ram Vilas Paswan has already said only 1% of the ration issued by the Centre for the month of April was given by the Delhi government to the poor people. The central government has been providing free ration to 72 lakh people of Delhi for three months,” he said. “The BJP’s allegation is completely baseless. The Delhi government had first announced increasing the ration quota of card holders in March, whereas the Centre announced its scheme in April. By then, we had already completed one round of extra and free ration distribution in the Capital. Delhi government had announced its ration scheme even before the Centre, or any other state for that matter. BJP is doing politics over the migrant crisis instead of actually solving it,” said a media advisor to the chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kejriwal-asks-centre-for-100-special-trains-to-send-migrant-workers-back/story-2ksWHvUpsng3YWVsZ4YfzK.html
20-05-2020||Noida||Traffic jams on Delhi-Noida border as GB Nagar admin continues with travel restrictions||With the district administration of Gautam Budh Nagar maintaining the status quo on travel restrictions between Delhi and Noida, commuters faced traffic snarls during peak hours even on the second day of Lockdown 4.0.The ministry of home affairs(MHA), last week, had removed all restrictions on interstate travel if the states consent. Guidelines of the Uttar Pradesh government have also allowed travel between Delhi and Gautam Budh Nagar, leaving the final decision with the respective district administrations. The Gautam Budh Nagar district administration, however, chose to continue with the travel restrictions in place. Border areas like Kalindi Kunj barrage and the Delhi-Noida-Direct (DND) Flyway saw heavy traffic congestion on both Monday as well as Tuesday with more load being seen on the Delhi-Noida side of the carriageway.“The guidelines clearly state that the individual district magistrate will make the final decision and in our district the restrictions are yet to be lifted. For some reason, people feel that they can cross borders without any reason and vehicles are being returned every day except for emergency vehicles, those belonging to essential services and those with valid administrative passes,” said Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police, traffic.Officials have had to open multiple lanes to manage the traffic congestion and the situation was brought under control by afternoon.In a combined tweet by the Noida district magistrate and the commissioner of Noida police, the officials said that the status quo shall be maintained between Delhi-Noida border for now while further instructions are being sought from the state government regarding this.Meanwhile, commuters faced long hours of traffic congestion because many vehicles were being denied entry while cops carried out a thorough ID search.“Around 9 am today (Tuesday), there was a lot of traffic on the Kalindi Kunj stretch on the Noida side. Police personnel are not just looking at passes. Each and every document is also being thoroughly scrutinised while those people who don’t have the valid authentication are being asked to go back,” said Vikas Chauhan, an executive with a medical equipment manufacturing firm in Noida.In the evening, there was severe traffic congestion on both the DND flyway and Kalindi Kunj barrage towards the Noida side. The jam stretched for kilometres, and, as the situation worsened, Noida Police had to let the public in without any checks.“All commuters have been warned to avoid this. If they leave in the morning for Delhi, then traffic becomes a problem in the evening creating a lot of chaos. So until the state government issues any fresh guidelines, only people with valid passes and those belonging to essential services should be allowed to travel across the border,” said Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police.“I came to Noida in the morning around 6am for work. We have necessary passes but everything is being checked thoroughly. There isn’t too much traffic in the morning hours. However, while going back in the afternoon, the traffic had started slowing across the Kalindi Kunj barrage towards the Noida side with people returning,” said Sanjay Joshi, another commuter.According to the Noida Police, the officials of Delhi Police have also been briefed about the problem.“No matter what, anyone coming in to Noida without a valid pass or not belonging to any of the listed essential services will not be allowed to enter. In fact, they can be issued a challan under Section 188 for breaking the guidelines of the lockdown,” said Sankalp Sharma, deputy commissioner of police, Zone-1.Officials said that despite the guidelines remaining unchanged for the past few weeks, the public is still trying to cross the state borders without any reason, which is leading to traffic congestion. Fresh guidelines are expected from the district administration soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/traffic-jams-on-delhi-noida-border-as-gb-nagar-admin-continues-with-travel-restrictions/story-S7FSp1cyqLLGtQzB4oOCCJ.html
20-05-2020||City||Social distancing: Police close down crowded Akalgarh market in Ludhiana||Police closed down the congested Akalgarh market in Chaura Bazaar here on Tuesday after seeing social distancing norms being flouted. The main gate of the market was closed, but shopkeepers opened their businesses after entering through the backdoor. The police also closed the shops at Caliber Plaza near Bhadaur House.Meanwhile, the police also came down heavily on double-riding on two-wheelers and issued challans to violators. They also challaned the people who did not maintain social distancing while travelling in cars. Only three persons, including the driver, are allowed to travel in a car.CRACKDOWN ON NIGHT DEFAULTERS BEGINSThe police rounded up more than 30 people for roaming on roads after 7pm and lodged FIRs against them under Sections 188 (disobedience of an order promulgated by a public servant) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code.As many as 555 vehicles were challaned and another 96 impounded for venturing out after 7pm, when the night curfew till 7am begins. According to the police, the drive will continue daily.Informing that the police had installed special checkpoints at all major points in the city, commissioner of police Rakesh Kumar Agrawal said stern action will be taken against all types of violators and FIRs lodged against them.“We have spent nearly two months in lockdown, but the danger of coronavirus is still not gone. By taking some precautions, we can fight the virus, but people are roaming around freely, forgetting the lurking danger,” said the police chief.“People have been allowed to move around from 7am to 7pm, but we request people to venture out only if there is an emergency,” he added.The commissioner added the shopkeepers will also face action if they didn’t close their shops after 6pm. Today during special drive to check movement of vehicle after 7 pm about 555 vehicles were challaned and 96 vehicles were impounded in Ludhiana.the drive will continue daily.https://t.co/Nvi1gOOK0b@PunjabPoliceInd pic.twitter.com/pXVgYdlLTP||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-close-down-akalgarh-market-in-ludhiana-issue-challans-to-violators-of-norms/story-kwZdnpxCpdwvPIs0qC8O2O.html
20-05-2020||City||Key accused in Ludhiana 30kg gold heist sent to five-day police custody||Another accused in the 30kg gold heist case, Chandan, alias Chandu, who was lodged in the Nabha jail and was the brain behind the heist, was brought on production warrants by a team of the Organised Crime Control Unit (OCCU) of the Punjab Police from the New Nabha Jail and produced in a Ludhiana court on Tuesday. The court remanded him in five-day police custody.According to the police, the accused, who is a resident of Ferozepur and a close associate of gangster Jaipal Singh Bhullar, had operated from the jail and arranged everything for executing the robbery.Chandan is facing trial in 30 cases, including murders and attempts to murder. In 2016, the army’s Military Intelligence (MI) had written to the Punjab Police that criminals in state jails, including Chandan, were running extortion rackets. Inspector general of police (OCCU) Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh said gangster Chandan had hatched a conspiracy to commit the gold heist in the IIFL branch, Gill Road. He had prepared the escape plan for the accused and also arranged shelter for them in Ferozepur through his contacts. He was also supposed to get the lion’s share in the robbery.Gangsters Jaipal Bhullar and Gursewak Singh are yet to be arrested in the case.On February 17, five armed robbers had robbed gold ornaments and Rs 3 lakh in cash from the IIFL gold loan branch on the Gill Road. The robbers executed the crime within 25 minutes after the financial service company’s branch, located opposite the Punjab Police’s Crime Investigation Agency Unit 3 office, had opened.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/key-accused-in-30kg-gold-heist-sent-to-five-day-police-custody/story-oWxesAjOgJvv3RSQwgkOqJ.html
20-05-2020||Noida||Interstate travel restricted, standalone shops, markets to open in Noida||Although restrictive norms have been eased across states, under the fourth phase of the lockdown that kicked in on May 18, the Gautam Budh Nagar district administration still continues to enforce the rules strictly with few relaxations. On Tuesday evening, the Uttar Pradesh government flagged the district administration’s decision to maintain status quo on the movement of vehicles between Noida and Delhi, with reference to point 3 (1) and 7 (12) of the government order of the state home department issued on May 18.GB Nagar commissioner of police (CP) Alok Singh said that point 7 (12) categorically said that no one will be allowed to enter GB Nagar, who are coming from the hot spot areas of Delhi and Ghaziabad. “Since it was really difficult to identify them, the district and police administration had no option other than to maintain the status quo as a precautionary measure, to check the further spread of Covid-19 in the district,” he said.Referring to point 3(1) of the government order, Singh said movement of interstate buses will depend on the result of talks between the two state governments.The CP further said all kinds of industrial work have been allowed apart from those in the containment zones. “But, they will have to strictly follow the Covid-19 safety guidelines, which include social distancing, sanitization and mandatory face masks. All shopkeepers, who have been permitted to operate, will also follow the same rules. They have been asked not to entertain any customer who is not wearing a mask. Markets, too, have been allowed to open, but the shopkeepers there will also have to follow the safety measures,” he said.Singh further said that wedding venues have been allowed to open. “But, not more than 20 people will be allowed in any case at a wedding function. Even for that, the wedding hall owners will have to take prior permission of the administration for a booking,” he said.About the movement of vehicles, he said that vehicular movement will be allowed in the state. “While in a four-wheeler two people are allowed besides the driver, two-wheelers cannot have a pillion rider, except a female. In three-wheelers, apart from driver, two passengers will be allowed,” he said.The CP also said that main vegetable markets will be allowed to operate from 4am to 7am. “The timing for the retail vegetable mandis has been stipulated from 6am to 9am. However, the public are allowed to buy vegetables between 8am and 6pm,” he said.He further said restaurant owners have also been allowed to operate but only for takeaways and home delivery. “The sweets shops will also follow the same rule and they will have to ensure proper sanitization. These eateries are not permitted to serve eatables in-house. The dry cleaning shops and printing presses have also been allowed in non-containment zones,” he said. However, shopping malls will remain shut in Noida and Greater Noida until further orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/interstate-travel-restricted-standalone-shops-markets-to-open-in-noida/story-obLmDRDFhZ4sh95z41oQwM.html
20-05-2020||Pune||Non-containment areas in Pune open for business – on allotted days||Municipal commissioner Shekar Gaikwad, on Tuesday, gave permission for hawkers, jewellers, electronic shops, mobile stores, stationary shops, automobile dealers, home appliance stores, utensil shops, and many others, to open in non-containment zones from Wednesday.Activities will resume in city’s business hub - Laxmi road, Kumthekar road, Bajirao road and Tilak road from Wednesday. In his order issued on Tuesday, Gaikwad also permitted hawkers on most roads in city “It is mandatory for all citizens to use masks in public places. All these activities are going to start from Wednesday, but no activity will be allowed after 7 pm,” he said.Micro containment areas will have only essential services like groceries, medicals, milk and clinics open. The commissioner reiterated that the workers will need to wear masks and maintain social distancing. IT companies will also be allowed to resume, with 50 per cent manpower.Maids can return to work, but not from containment zonesMunicipal commissioner Shekar Gaikwad has allowed house maids to return to work, on the condition the employer ensures that the maid is not from a containment zone. People residing in containment zones are not allowed to move outside the area.What is not allowed in the city?-Public transport-Cabs, autos-Malls-Hair salons and beauty parlours-Railway, air transport-Hotels, restaurants and cafesFollowing days allotted for shops to open:Monday - Electronics, computers, mobiles, tailors, photo studios, jewellers, eyeware, rain gearTuesday- Cycles, vehicle showrooms, hardware, cloth shops, furniture, agricultural-related shopsWednesday- Electronics, mobiles, utensils, laundry, footwear, jewellers, eye-wearThursday- Cycles, automobiles, plumbing, hardware, rainware, stationary, religious artifactsFriday- Electronics, computers, mobiles, electricals, medical equipment, footwearSaturday- Cycles, automobiles, hardware, jewellers, laundry, warehouses, home appliancesSunday - Cycles, automobiles, hardware, jewellers, laundry, warehouses, home appliances, and building material.To do list- It is mandatory to use masks in all public places- Shop owners and police to ensure that there is enough physical distance in between each individual- Five or more than five people not allowed to together- At a marriage ceremony, only 50 people allowed- At a crematorium, only 20 people allowed- Spitting on the road is punishable- No smoking on the roadEmployer precautions- Shop owners should provide masks for all employees- Sanitizers should be provided- There should be enough time between two shifts- Avoid physical meetings- Clean public places regularly||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/non-containment-areas-open-for-business-on-allotted-days/story-IXNOslaEht7fmxriF7OdAO.html
20-05-2020||Gurugram||Inmate tries to kill himself with scissors at Bhondsi jail||An inmate who was arrested in a case of rape allegedly tried to kill himself after snatching a pair of scissors from another inmate, who was having a haircut at Bhondsi jail on Monday morning. According to the police, the inmate allegedly stabbed himself in the neck with the scissors. His condition is reported to be stable and he is currently undergoing treatment at a hospital.According to the police, the inmate is an accused in a rape case and his trail is currently underway. He is a resident of Badshahpur. The incident took place on Monday around 11.30am, when one of the inmates was cutting hair.Bhartender Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Bhondsi police station, said, “He twisted the hand of the other inmate and snatched the scissors from him and stabbed himself in the neck. He was taken to a hospital in Sector 10, where his condition is reported to be stable. We are investigating the matter.”A case was registered against the inmate under Section 309 (attempt to commit suicide) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Bhondsi police station on Monday, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/inmate-tries-to-kill-himself-with-scissors-at-bhondsi-jail/story-ETyZCor9lR91poSWtAOl1I.html
20-05-2020||Gurugram||16-year-old raped, tries to kill self||A 16-year-old girl allegedly hanged herself, in an attempt to kill herself, after she was raped by a 20-year-old man in Farrukhnagar, police said on Tuesday. The girl is currently undergoing treatment at a hospital. An acquaintance of the girl, a Farrukhnagar resident, is alleged to have lured the girl to a pond, where she was allegedly raped by another man, suspected to be his friend. The acquaintance was arrested on Tuesday.In the police complaint, the victim’s mother said, “The acquaintance came to our house on Thursday, around 8pm, and saw that my daughter was alone. He then lured her away. When we returned to our house, we saw that she was missing. While searching for her, we went to his house, where his father shut the doors and threatened to kill us if we did not leave the premises.” She said her daughter returned around 9.30pm and was inconsolable.“Around 4pm on Friday, she told me that the acquaintance had lured her to a pond, where another man raped her,” the complainant said. She said that the acquaintance visited them around 8pm, when the girl hanged herself.“We initially took our daughter to a local hospital. As her condition was critical, she was referred to SGT hospital, Budhera, where she is undergoing treatment,” the girl’s mother said in the FIR. The police said that the girl’s condition is stable.A police official privy to the investigation said, “We have arrested her acquaintance. The other accused is still at large. We are investigating the matter.”A case was registered under sections 365, 342, 506 and 120B of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 4 of The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act at Farrukhnagar police station, police said on Tuesday.In a second incident, a 12-year-old boy was allegedly sodomised by a 50-year-old man in Sector 9, police said on Tuesday. The man was arrested on Monday night.The police said the suspect lured the boy when he was on his way to deliver food to a relative on Sunday night.A police official privy to the investigation said, “The accused saw the boy and took him to a vacant plot located near the colony. He then sodomised him. A resident of the colony noticed the accused and the victim during the incident, and began screaming for help. The accused fled the spot. We arrested him on Monday night.”A case was registered against the accused under Section 4 of the POCSO Act at Sector 9A police station on Monday. In a third incident, a 19-year-old man was arrested for allegedly raping a Class 11 student in Sushant Lok, the police said on Tuesday. According to the police, the man used to study in the same school as the girl and were acquainted.The suspect, a resident of Devi Lal Colony, was nabbed on Monday.In the police complaint, the victim’s mother alleged that the suspect raped her daughter while visiting her at the residence.Jagbir Singh, station house officer (SHO), Sushant Lok police station, said, “The accused was arrested on Monday. We are investigating the matter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/16-year-old-raped-tries-to-kill-self/story-NMGpofkJ5E4piVBDA41TbN.html
20-05-2020||Gurugram||Industries, e-commerce companies can operate with 100% staff strength, says Haryana government||Industries, e-commerce companies and other private establishments located in the orange and green zones will be allowed to operate with 100% staff strength in the fourth phase of the lockdown with strict adherence of social distancing norms as per the latest directive of the Haryana government issued late on Monday evening. The companies, however, will have to apply on Saral Haryana portal with requisite information, upon which they will get automatic permissions and passes will be issued to the employees, the order stated.The nationwide lockdown was extended from May 18 to May 31 following which, the Haryana government decided to allow resumption of economic activities in the entire state barring the containment zones.In a separate order issued on Monday, the Haryana government also said that no public dealings would be allowed in government offices till May 31. But it has also stipulated 100% attendance for Group A and B employees of the state provided that there is adequate space in the offices for social distancing. However, the attendance for Group C and D employees has been stipulated at 50%. The heads of departments of various government offices have been asked to prepare a roster for these employees. Further, the offices have also been asked not to use central air-conditioning.As per the order regarding the functioning of industries, all economic activities outside the designated containment zones will be allowed to operate with 100% employees under Lockdown 4.0. The direction stated that industrial areas with access control, such industrial model townships, industrial areas of Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Authority(HSIIDC) , industry development centres and special economic zones (SEZs) will be allowed to function with 100% staff. E-commerce companies, industry in rural areas and other industry in urban and rural areas will also be allowed with 100% staff. However, all industrial and other business enterprises will have to mandatorily apply on the Saral Haryana portal by providing all details. Immediate automatic permission would be granted to these firms and passes shall be generated that would remain valid till May 31.The government has also directed that work from home should be promoted and staggering of work/business hours should be followed in commercial and industrial establishments. All provisions of social distancing and sanitisation are also compulsory. In case of violations, action would be initiated under the Disaster Management Act, the order stated.As per the new government order, the demarcation of areas of containment and buffer zones shall be determined by officials of state health department and district administration.The government also said that interstate and intrastate movement of goods and cargo, including empty trucks, will be allowed. In case of a change in the risk profile of the area of a containment zone, relaxations would be withdrawn.“All the norms related to social distancing will have to be strictly observed both in private and government establishments to prevent the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19),” said a government spokesperson.The spokesperson further said that as far as government offices are concerned, it has been decided that department heads can call all the employees of groups A, B, C and D, if they have adequate space for social distancing. Otherwise the employees can either be allowed to work from home or be called to the office in separate shifts.All the government employees, who have a smart phone will have to mandatorily download the Arogya Setu mobile application. In case an employee has a feature phone, then a missed call will have to be given from that phone on the helpline number 1921.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/industries-e-commerce-companies-can-operate-with-100-staff-strength-says-haryana-government/story-uQs4Oz2uMSsQEM8oKwYcWJ.html
20-05-2020||Gurugram||2 constables of Gurugram Police test positive for Covid-19||Two police constables of Gurugram Police have tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19), confirmed officials on Tuesday. The police officials are the first Covid-19 positive cases in the police force in the district. Police officials and health department officials confirmed that both the police constables had tested positive for Covid-19 earlier this week.The police said the constables, who are in their 20s, were asymptomatic in nature. They were posted at Bajghera and Sector 17/18 police stations respectively and were on Covid-19 duty in the city.Muhammad Akil, commissioner of police, Gurugram, said, “One of them was posted in Sector 18 and had come in close contact with a Covid-19 patient while discharging duties. The second was posted at Bajghera and came in close contact with another positive person, who was his brother’s friend. His brother, however, has tested negative,” he said.According to the police, both the officials have been placed under home quarantine. Police officials have also converted one barrack into a quarantine ward for police personnel.Akil said that the constable from Sector 17/18 police station, a native of Mahendargarh, was deployed in Sirhaul, which is a containment zone. The second positive case is that of a head constable from Bajghera police station, who hails from Rewari. “In the past week, their samples were taken and both were found to be positive. Both the police stations have been sanitised and samples of their colleagues and those who came in contact with them have been taken,” he said.Nearly 5,800 police personnel are deployed for Covid-19 duties in Gurugram, including being posted at the 11 borders with the neighbouring state. Gurugram has recorded a fewer number of cases among police personnel as compared to other districts.Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, chief medical officer (CMO), said that both the infected police personnel have been put under isolation and contact tracing is being carried out.Earlier, the asymptomatic patients were placed under isolation in the hospitals but after the revised guidelines by the ministry of home affairs (MHA), they are either isolated at home or shifted to Covid-19 care centres, said the police.The police said an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) from Sector 14 police station had tested positive last month but when he was tested for a second time, the reports were found to be negative. “The ASI had taken down the body of a man, who had allegedly committed suicide, after hanging himself with ceiling fan. He was wearing a PPE kit,” said Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime).FARIDABADFaridabad on Tuesday reported 13 new cases of Covid-19, including three police officials. The police said all the infected officials were admitted to a hospital and those who came in contact with them were placed under quarantine. The officials who tested positive include two special police officers (SPOs) from the Sector 55 police post and one police officer from Saran police station.These policemen had come in contact with a constable from Sector 17 police station, who was suspected to be positive. However, his report came out negative on Tuesday and he was discharged from the hospital. Saran police station and Sector 55 police post have been sanitised, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/2-constables-of-gurugram-police-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-MbwfwBLyIcO9NsP8bWLlnM.html
20-05-2020||Gurugram||Ease in lockdown poses challenge for the health department||At a time when coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases are rapidly increasing in the city, health officials worry that with the easing lockdown, exposure to the Sars-CoV-2 virus will increase if social distancing is not maintained. The opening of industries and more activity in high density areas pose a big challenge to contain the crisis even as they now look for setting up additional quarantine facilities.Announcing a third extension of the nation-wide lockdown to contain the virus till May 31, the central government on Sunday had allowed states to demarcate their areas of infection and relaxations. The Haryana government on Monday allowed industries, outside containment zones, to function with 100% staff.“The chances of exposure are high as there has been an ease in the lockdown,” said Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, chief medical officer, Gurugram. “Since industries and factories are reopening, they should approach us for the surveillance of their employees. We can screen them and based on the symptoms, we can timely isolate them. This would reduce the risk of transmission. In this way, industrial operations wouldn’t be halted and timely symptomatic cases can be traced.”Till Tuesday evening, Haryana recorded 36 fresh cases (Gurugram nine) taking the total to 964 (Gurugram 220). The total number of deaths due to the infection in the state is 14, while Gurugram suffered no deaths. In the last 20 days, the city has saw a surge with 150 cases.Most cases are asymptomatic, according to health officials. According to Punia, emerging new cases are the primary contacts of Covid-19 patients and nearly 80% of them are asymptomatic. But cases coming from crowded urban settlements pose serious issues.“We have reported cases where domestic helps, workers, security guards and drivers have contracted the virus. The target is to test them and quarantine the high risk contacts,” he said.BREAKING TRANSMISSION CHAINIn crowded areas like Sirhaul, Dundahera, Basai Enclave, breaking the chain of transmission is even more challenging where industrial workers and daily wage workers reside. Each of these areas has reported more than 10 cases in the last two weeks. Following the guidelines issued on May 16 by the union ministry of health and family welfare, high risk contacts found in congested areas have to be quarantined separately.As per the guideline, a quarantine facility has to be identified where large number of high risk contacts can be accommodated. Shifting of high risk contacts, like elderly and those with co-morbid conditions is a crucial intervention to minimize the spread of disease in such persons, thereby limiting morbidity and mortality among them. A contingency plan has to be in place to move high risk population to alternative or temporary sites.The health team wants to expand its existing capacity of 500-bed quarantine facility. Interestingly, the department has converted 400-bed quarantine facility in sector 9 as Covid Care Centre and is admitting asymptomatic Covid-19 patients. Dr Jai Prakash, nodal officer for the quarantine facility, said, “Males who are asymptomatic Covid-19 positive are kept in sector 9 quarantine facility, while women are kept in the isolation ward of sector 10 Civil Hospital. Symptomatic patients and high-risk area admitted in 100-bed ESIC Hospital, sector 9, 120-bed Medeor in Manesar and other private hospitals of the city.” Six private hospitals have kept 100-bed, each, for Covid-19 cases.High risk contacts of Covid-19 patients, who can easily spread the virus till their reports are declared, are being taken to 100-bed Bhora Kalan facility in Pataudi for quarantine, according to the nodal officer. There are at least 40 people under quarantine at the facility. Dr Punia, however, said, the administration along with health department has identified a few community centres to set up quarantine facility.In DLF- Phase 1, the proposal is to convert community centre into qurantine facility but residents has opposed the move as community centre is in the middle of the residential area. RS Rathee, independent elected councillor ward no 34 recently took to social media to raise the issue citing residents’ objection in setting up the facility.A member of rapid response privy to the matter said, “Quarantine has become an issue as people are not willing to stay away from their families for 14 days. Also, we are finding more places where the facility could be set. Everyone wants home like facility at the quarantine centre, which is not possible. Now, government has also issued guidelines for home isolation. It now depends how people manage social distancing on their own.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/ease-in-lockdown-poses-challenge-for-the-health-department/story-GEUsz3LEdNcCisN9MnWHWM.html
20-05-2020||City||Ludhiana small scale industrialists’ body seeks power bill waiver for a year||The Janta Nagar Small Scale Manufacturers Association (JNSSMA) has written to the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) seeking a waiver of the fixed charges in the two-part electricity tariff for at least a year.The members of the association, including president Jaswinder Singh Thukral, general secretary Shavinder Singh Hunjan and senior vice-president Rajinder Singh Kalsi, visited the Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC) office in Chandigarh on Tuesday to submit their suggestions.Thukral said the state in April had waived fixed charges for two months and had moved a petition in PSERC.“Acting on the same, the PSERC in May had sought suggestions from the residents by May 19. We suggested that the fixed charges should be waived for at least a year to bring relief to the industry, which is reeling under losses,” said Thukral.Hunjan and Kalsi said the industry was going through a tough time and the government should provide immediate and extensive relief to the industry as a major section, especially the micro and small industry, will not be able to survive without support.Thukral said they will take up the matter with the PSERC officials during the public hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-small-scale-industrialists-body-seeks-power-bill-waiver-for-a-year/story-ipi9KcuLIwDeyQpveGMs1I.html
20-05-2020||City||Kerala residents stranded in Ludhiana sent home on special train||Around 90 people from Kerala stranded in Ludhiana returned to Thiruvananthapuram on a Shramik Special train from the Jalandhar railway station on Tuesday night.The passengers included around 20 nursing students from Christian Medical College (CMC), Ludhiana, while others were employees of private companies and some labourers.They had applied to travel back home on the Punjab Helpline Portal, following which they were called to the Amar Shaheed Sukhdev Interstate Bus Terminal in Ludhiana for the Thiruvananthapuram from Jalandhar. Ludhiana district administration coordinated with the Jalandhar administration and sent these passengers there on three buses after their medical screening at the local ISBT.Varghese, a nursing student, said she had been staying at the CMC hostel during the lockdown. “I didn’t face any problem, but as the government was providing the facility for stranded people, I decided to go back home,” she said.Mohammad Fayaz had come to Ludhiana two months ago for work, but got stuck here after the curfew was clamped. “I got shelter at the mosque on Rahon Road where we were provided all facilities. I applied to return to Kerala after I got to know of the special trains,” he said.Another passenger, requesting anonymity, said his company had allowed him to work from home, but it was inconvenient to do so from the paying guest facility. “So, he chose to travel back home for now. I will return after the situation normalises,” he said.Assistant deputy commissioner Iqbal Singh Sandhu said three buses were sent to Jalandhar railway station carrying migrants from Kerala, while three buses carrying around 90 migrants were sent to various districts of Uttar Pradesh, including Aligarh, Meerut and Muzaffarpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kerala-residents-stranded-in-ludhiana-sent-home-on-special-train/story-w5yHhjZzM0wwoWDdzGSn6H.html
20-05-2020||City||693 in Ludhiana to benefit from EPFO’s decision to restore full pension||As many as 693 pensioners of the district will benefit from the decision of Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) to restore full pensions of those who had opted for commutation while retiring. Commutation is an option given to pensioners to withdraw one-third of their pension upfront at the time of retirement. They then receive the two-thirds of the pension balance monthly.But on February 26, the EPFO decided to disburse full pension to people, who had retired before September 25, 2008, and had completed 15 years of retirement.Presently, there are 24,538 pensioners with the EPFO regional office in Ludhiana out of which 693 are eligible for full pensions.“Though the notification was issued in February, it took a few months to update the software. We are expecting to send full pension to those who are eligible from June onwards,” said Dheeraj Gupta, regional provident fund commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/693-to-benefit-in-ludhiana-from-epfo-s-decision-to-restore-pension-commutation/story-4S1drNPVUc7eSyFZMTdlDM.html
20-05-2020||Pune||Pune reports 8 Covid deaths||The city reported 149 positive Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the final count to 3,747.Eight deaths related to the virus were recorded on Tuesday, taking the Covid-19-related death toll of Pune city to 207.Of this, Sassoon hospital has reported 111 deaths, and 380 positive cases as of Tuesday evening.According to the data, for every 18 positive cases reported in the city, one death has been recorded, while in the case of Sassoon, where the maximum number of Covid-19-related deaths have been reported, for every 3.4 positive cases one death has been reported. The eight recorded deaths include three from Sassoon, including a 64-year-old female from Yerawada who was admitted on May 6 and declared dead on May 19.The cause of death is reported to be acute respiratory failure due to acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) and myocarditis, diabetes and hypertension. Another 65-year-old female who was admitted on May 10, was declared dead on May 19. The person was also suffering from myocarditis, diabetes, hypertension, Ischemic heart disease and chronic kidney disease.The third death from Sassoon hospital is that of a 50-year-old female from Mangalwar peth who was declared dead on May 19.The other deaths include a 50-year-old female reported from Naidu hospital, residing at Yerawada. She was declared dead on May 16, but her swab test reports came in on Tuesday confirming the infection.A 79-year old-male residing at Ganj peth was reported dead from the Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital on Tuesday.A 67-year-old male resident of Hadapsar was reported dead from Noble hospital, also on Tuesday.A 72-year-old male resident of Kondhwa was declared dead at Sahyadri hospital.A 70-year-old male from Kondhwa was declared dead at Sahyadri.Also, 110 people were discharged after being declared completely cured, taking the count in the city of those discharged to 1,910. Of the 1,630 active cases in the city, 156 are critical patients.As of Tuesday, 33,795 samples have been tested, of which 3,747 cases have returned positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-reports-8-covid-deaths/story-OkYfnJS8pH8fzVVPaUzaOL.html
20-05-2020||City||After long wait to reopen shops, Ludhiana traders now await customers||Two days after the district administration allowed retail stores to reopen amid the Covid-19 lockdown, shopkeepers in popular markets of Ludhiana, including Chaura Bazaar, Field Ganj and Books Market, said their sales were not the same due to reduced footfall.Some shopkeepers said they did not earn a single penny till Tuesday afternoon for want of customers, who were still choosing to remain indoorsEven at the otherwise busy Clock Tower Road, shopkeepers and their workers could be seen sitting idle outside their shops waiting for customers.Prince, one of the shopkeepers dealing in garments, said no customer had even entered his shop all day. “People are not coming out of their homes yet. We are also not expecting much footfall as it will take days for normalcy to return,” he said.He said their regular customers were migrants and rural people. “Most of such people are struggling due to depleting finances or have left for their home states. Also, lack of public transport has affected our sales.”Similarly, the shopkeepers of the Books Market said their counter sale had dropped by around 80%.JS Bunty, president of the Books Market Association and owner of Sant Stationery, said the retailers were expecting a number of customers as online classes for the new academic session had started. “But the footfall is too less. The sales are not even 25% of what we earned earlier,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/reduced-footfall-hits-ludhiana-retail-stores-amid-lockdown-4-0/story-uJ9Y0ODy8zibAcl24CZYeJ.html
20-05-2020||Pune||PMC adds 19 areas to micro-containment zones, removes 24 in new order||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) removed 24 areas from an earlier list of 69 containment zones, but added 19 new areas to the micro- containment list.PMC commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said, “PMC had adopted the micro-containment zone policy and keeping the rest of the city open for other activities. Earlier, 69 micro-containment areas were announced, but as there are no new patients in 24 of these micro-containment zones, the areas are being removed from the list.” “Positive patients have been found in 19 new areas, which are now added as micro-containment zones. Now, the city will have a total of 65 containment zones falling under the jurisdiction of various police stations.”List of new micro-containment zones include, Kasba-Vishrambaug ward office; Juna Bazaar area; Velenkarnagar; Laxminarayan cinema; Parvati Darshan; Hotel Panchami area; Rambhau Mhalgi road towards Parvatidarshan; Dandekar bridge slum; Ambil Odha area; Parvati final plot 558; and the Dattawadi area.Also, Bhavani peth ward office - Kasba, Vishrambaughwada, Bhavani peth, Somwar peth, Budhwar peth, Guruwar peth, Shukrawar peth, Raviwar peth, Ganj peth, and Ghorpadi peth are in the list.Dhole Patil road ward office - Kapila Dairy area, Vikasnagar, Siddharthnagar, Tadiwala road, and Manjulabai chawl also come under the micro-containment zones.Other micro-containment zones include: Dhankawadi Sahakarnagar - Taljai slum; Suvarna Society; Ramabai Ambedkar Society; Swapnasakar Society; Rambhau Mahalgi road; Parvati; Shahu Vasahat; Gajanan Maharaj Temple area; Katraj suvery no 66; Ambegaon Pathar, and Navnathnagar.Bibvewadi ward office- Ambedkar Vasahat; Dias plot; Gultekdi; Meenatai Thackeray slum; Upper Indiaranagar vasahat; Premnagar; Panaroma Society; Kumar Pacific Mall; Shankarsheth road; Kothari block area, Bibvewadi; and Babu Genu Society.Yerwada Kalas ward- Yerawada; Adarsh Indiranagar; Dhanori; Gokulnagar vasti, and Dhere Talav area.Wanowrie-Ramtekdi ward office areas - Vaiduwadi, Riddhi Siddhi building area; Diamond bakery area; Omkar Hospital area; Sayyadnagar; Ashiyana Hall; Rasul Massijjid area; Pratham Apartment; Navjeevan Nursing Home area; Ideal English Medium Primary school area; Kondhwa Khurda; Pearl Drop School area; Bhagoydaynagar; Sheetal Petrol Pump area; Mithanagar; Gagan Emerald society; Akshar Dham Society area; Bairobha nallah; Wanowrie SRPF number 1 and 2; Nanavatingar; Hadapsar survey number 106; and Gosavi Vasti.Shivajingar-Ghole road ward office- Shivajingar railway line slum, Kamgar Putala slum, Old Tofkhana, Patil Estate, Bhosalewadi, Wakdewadi, Sangamwadi areaAhmednagar road-WadgaonSheri ward office- Siddharthnagar; Ramwadi Jakat Naka area; White House area; Saikrupa Society; Vitthalnagar; Jaiprakashnagar; Gandhinagar; and Yerawada ward officeSinghgad road- Parvati Paytha, Janta Vasahat, Shivprathamesh Society, Raikar Mala, DhayariHadapsar-Mundhwa - Sayyadnagar petrol pump area; HDFC bank ATM area; Maruti Temple; Gajanan Colony; hotel Sangram area; Phursungi, Bhekarainagar.Kondhwa-Yeolewadi area - Aai Mata Mandir to Kondhwa Budruk road; Esha Pearl Society road; Hotel Ruchira area; Khandoba Temple; Sainagar Kondhwa; Balajinagar; Dhankawadi; Pawar Hospital lane.Warje-Karvenagar area- Erandwade, Rajput Vitbhatti, Mahadev Temple.Kothrud-Bavdhan - Postman Colony, left side of Shastrinagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-adds-19-areas-to-micro-containment-zones-removes-24-in-new-order/story-RGgcCf6c5KZH0VscjsRW6H.html
20-05-2020||Pune||650 cases from 3 sq km area of Tadiwala, Mahatma Phule peth slum||The three-sq-km area that covers Tadiwala road and the Mahatma Phule peth slum have have reported at least 650 Covid-19-poisitve cases, which is 18 per cent of the total cases (3,598 as of May 18), in a city with a population of 40 lakh, spread over 331 square kilometres.These two areas from Dhole Patil road and Bhavani peth wards of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) were among the first to be declared red zones as social distancing is a challenge due to the cramped living conditions.According to DP road ward officer Dayanand Sonkamble, within DP road, the most infected containment zone is the Tadiwala road slum, with a population of 70,000 living in 13,000 houses.“We have, till date, found 350 positive cases in an area spanning about 1.5 square kilometres at the Tadiwala road slum. While their initial excuse to go out was to buy groceries, we started providing ration kits, then people ventured out to buy vegetables, for which we will now only allow vegetable vendors every three days and ensure social distancing is followed,” said Sonkamble.According to PMC officials, as of May 18, DP road ward has 700 cases while, Bhavani peth ward has reported 627 cases.In the Bhavani peth ward, which is another red zone, the Mahatma Phule slum is spread across an area of 1.5km. Sonkamble said that most of the cases identified in the area are employees of a nearby hospital where Covid-19 patients are being treated.Councillor Ajay Khedekar from ward 18 which is under Bhavani peth, covering most of the Mahatma Phule area, said that the youth in the area are often seeing venturing out and even play cards despite multiple efforts to ensure that they remain indoors.Khedekar said, “The Rapid Action Force (RAF) has been deployed in the area, but still we see people moving around. We must also consider the fact that there are about eight-10 people living in a 10x12 feet room and so social distancing is a luxury. Right now the PMC is also cleaning toilets at least three times a day and I have also installed sanitisers at every public toilet in my ward. We have also provided rations kits to people. Initially people hid the symptoms of Covid-19 fearing social boycott, which led to a rise in the number of cases. Mobile vans have also been deployed for swab collection so that people do not have to travel to distant places. Most of these people are uneducated and to explain social distancing became difficult, however, we are carrying out aggressive information campaigns.” Mahatma Phule slum is the most affected area within the Bhavani peth ward. Khedekar also said that many class four civic employees also live here who provide essential services to the city. “The employees move around the city and this could have been the reason for the spread,” he claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/650-cases-from-3-sq-km-area-of-tadiwala-mahatma-phule-peth-slum/story-iM3zHQPNSH6QXHPZg7A7MN.html
20-05-2020||Pune||Pune traders seek clarity on reopening of shops, says Fatehchand Ranka||Pune: The lockdown has left shopkeepers in Pune with an estimated loss of at least Rs one crore business, said Fatehchand Ranka, president of the Federation of Trade Association Pune. Ranka shares the steps taken to resume operations and following safety precautions. How are traders and businesses holding up?Ever since the lockdown, 30,000 traders in Pune have been badly affected. We have followed every rule announced by the authorities and even shut shops when required during the lockdown, but now patience is running out amid apprehension among traders of survival of their businesses.How badly has the business being affected?In the past three months, we have borne losses estimated to be about Rs one crore. There are several shops which are on rental basis. If the rent is not paid, they will lose the shop, leaving them no choice but to opt out of business.What kind of expectations do you have from the state and municipal corporation?We have entered phase 4 of the lockdown and the state government has been talking of relaxations, but nothing is clear about it nor have they intimated to us whether we can open our businesses. All they have allowed is for smaller shops of essential goods and those of electrical, electronics, furniture and essential clothing to open in non-containment zones, but it seems there is miscommunication between the local authorities for the police do not allow us to reach our shops to open for business.Are the shops ready for business?Yes, we are ready. We have already kept our staff on standby, given them training on how to work with gloves, masks and also have teams ready to sanitize shops. For those visiting shops, we have kept gloves and masks ready. And we will maintain social distancing and follow all the guidelines given by the government.Problems expected if shops are openThe shops being shut for three months is bad enough, but what we foresee as a problem is getting goods from manufacturing units. With many of the migratory labour gone home, there are hardly any skilled labour left to work on new products. It will be a problem if there is a heavy demand for new designs and products.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/traders-seek-clarity-on-reopening-of-shops/story-CYxbCVp1nBqglP0FFfwqVJ.html
20-05-2020||Pune||Lockdown impact: PMC extends property tax rebate scheme by one month||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has given a one-month extension to avail the benefit of 5 to 10 per cent rebate scheme on property tax because to the prevailing Covid-19 situation.Hemant Rasane, PMC standing committee chairman, said due to the lockdown, citizens are unable to pay the tax and take benefit of the scheme.The last date for availing the benefit every year is May 31, but due to lockdown and a financial crunch, PMC standing committee has given a 1-month extension on the scheme. Now, the benefit can be availed until June 30, 2020.“We had given an extension for the rebate scheme for one more month. It will also help PMC to get more revenue as residents used to give a good response to the scheme in the past. Even elected members asked not to impose fine immediately if someone failed to repay the tax in time,” Rasane said.PMC is offering a rebate if the taxpayer pays property tax in the first two months of the financial year. Citizens who have tax below Rs 25,000 are getting 10 per cent discount in general tax and those having more than Rs 25,000 will be eligible for 5 per cent rebate.According to PMC property tax department chief Vilas Kanade, Covid-19 has financially impacted the property tax department.“In the previous year until May 18, PMC collected Rs 380 crore taxes through rebate scheme, but this year only Rs 150 crore has been received till date. We got permission from the standing committee for a one-month extension. Now the general body’s okay is awaited,” Kanade said.PMC had sent messages and link to property tax receipts for residents to pay bills online, but due to the lockdown people are unable to take benefit of the scheme like previous years, Kanade said.“Now the PMC has begun to send a hard copy of the property tax bills to citizens,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-affect-pmc-extends-tax-rebate-scheme-by-one-month/story-6wtWaAWUCgHnnOH3zEFw6L.html
20-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Agricultural University holds online course for mushroom growers||A two-day online course on mushroom cultivation was organised by the Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) here for farmers under the guidance of extension education director Dr J S Mahal. A total of 80 participants attended the online course.Skill development associate director Dr T S Riar said it was for the first time that PAU organised an online course that received an overwhelming response from trainees. The course covered every aspect of mushroom cultivation, starting from its sowing till processing, he added.Senior microbiologist Dr HS Sodhi explained the significance of growing mushroom.Microbiology department experts Dr Shivani Sharma and Dr Gagandeep Kaur shed light on the cultivation of milky and paddy mushrooms, respectively.School of Business Studies professor Dr Ramadeep Singh and course coordinator Dr Lavleesh Garg informed the farmers about marketing of mushrooms and earning profits with less expenditure.Dr Garg said the varsity will organise a two-day online course for milk producers on May 21 and 22. Those interested can fill the application form by going to the university’s website www.pau.edu and clicking on the webpage of Skill Development Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-agricultural-university-holds-online-course-for-mushroom-growers/story-U8VmXnm4GJuWwGqkrIeKxK.html
20-05-2020||Chandigarh||DMCH Ludhiana resumes normal functioning||After nearly two months, Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) here has resumed its normal functioning from Tuesday.In an official statement issued by the authorities, DMCH managing society secretary Prem Kumar Gupta informed that after two months of curfew and lockdown in the state due to Covid-19 pandemic, DMCH has started functioning as per normal routine.“All employees, including doctors, paramedical staff, technicians and staff nurses, have been advised to take preventive measures to check the spread of Covid-19,” said Gupta.In addition, they have been asked to maintain physical distancing, wear masks and use sanitisers regularly.Earlier too, the health staff made sincere efforts in treating patients during the curfew period, the DMCH secretary said.For certain specialties, makeshift clinics were started in the open to prevent gathering of too many patients in the OPD.The DMCH secretary also thanked all district officials and police administration for lending full support in proper functioning of the hospital in the time of crisis.He said, “Our hospital is absolutely Covid-free and we are taking precautions to make it safe for doctors, patients, staff members and visitors.”“We have started all major surgeries, while taking necessary precautions. All patients are advised to wear masks and maintain hygiene and social distancing. Visitors and patients will continue to be screened in the Flu Corner at the entrance of the hospital,” Gupta added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dmch-ludhiana-resumes-normal-functioning-after-nearly-two-months/story-s49WHp6YwWTRla2SOaJSdP.html
20-05-2020||Pune||Pune Cantonment Board opts for complete lockdown till May 22||The Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) has once again clamped a complete lockdown in the PCB areas in east Pune to control the spread of Covid-19. The total shutdown beginning on May 19 will be effective till Friday, May 22, the cantonment board’s chief executive officer Amit Kumar said in an order issued on Monday after a meeting called by PCB president Brigadier Kuljeet Singh.Only medical shops will be allowed to be open from 10 am to 1 pm and 5pm to 8 pm and milk delivery from 7am to 10 am. All other shops and establishments will remain closed. PCB, which is spread over 11.9 km area and includes localities such as Camp, Wanowrie, Race Course, and prominent shopping areas such as Mahatma Gandhi road and East Street, has seen 128 positive cases as of May 18. As of May 18, Pune city, part of a red zone district, has seen 3,598 positive cases and 199 deaths with 69 containment zones. The headquarters of the Army’s Southern Command is located in the PCB area. The rising number of positive cases has been seen in areas such as Bhimpura, New Modikhana and nearby areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-days-lockdown-in-pune-cantonment-from-today/story-Y6h3sbcFOLRfEBBjJ1ERZN.html
20-05-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana doctors, paramedics stage protest over substandard masks as Covid-19 spreads through their ranks||A day after two more civil hospital employees tested positive for Covid-19, doctors and paramedical staff staged a protest against the substandard face masks being provided to them. The doctors had earlier raised the issue of poor quality PPE (personal protective equipment) kits.The health staff alleged that the N95 mask was of substandard quality, which provided them with no protection.The protesting employees refused to join duty until they were provided good quality masks and PPE kits. So far, one former doctor and four ward attendants have contracted Covid-19.As many as 22 people tested positive for the disease on Monday.They include two accused of sodomy and rape, respectively; six under trials lodged in Borstal jail; two civil hospital employees; two Railway Protection Force (RPF) employees; one contact of a patient found positive at a flu corner and five other cases from different parts of the district. NURSES DEMAND PAY RAISEMeanwhile, 15 contractual nurses working at the isolation centre and flu corner of the civil hospital staged a protest and demanded a salary hike.They accused the authorities of not testing them for Covid-19. The protesting nurses said that they had come in contact with infected ward attendants and patients who could be asymptomatic Covid-19 carriers.CIVIL SURGEON HOLDS MEET TO DISCUSS ISSUE, FORMS PANELCivil surgeon Dr Rajesh Kumar Bagga said after the doctors and para-medical staff of the civil hospital held a protest over the quality of masks, a meeting was held to discuss the issue.Dr Bagga said the protective gear was being supplied at the state-level and the PPE kits were approved by South India Textile Research Association (SITRA) and N95 masks by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO).He said the doctors and paramedical staff the masks should not have side respirator valves and strings of the N95 masks should be adjustable. He added that a panel will check the quality of such products thoroughly in future.YAD DEMANDS PROBEBacking the protesting doctors, the Youth Akali Dal (YAD) district president Gurdeep Singh Gosha, demanded a probe in the matter.He said the government should take action against the supplier of PPE kits and masks and initiate high-level probe to find out the role of companies and officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-doctors-paramedics-stage-protest-against-substandard-masks-as-covid-19-spreads-through-their-ranks/story-g4ylUEv0GJzbZUnzxfNbNK.html
20-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh touches 200 mark in 62 days||In just over two months, the tally of coronavirus disease cases has touched the 200 mark in Chandigarh, with three more people testing positive on Tuesday. However, in good news, as many as 37 patients – the highest in a single day — were discharged, taking the total number of recoveries to 91 and bringing the number of active cases down to 106.Among the new cases, two are from Bapu Dham Colony — two women aged 28 and 55 — while one is from Dhanas.The 34-year-old man from the Rehabilitation Colony in Dhanas had arrived from Delhi on May 17 and had gone straight to Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, where he was sampled as he was symptomatic. The first case had surfaced in Chandigarh on March 18, when a 23-year-old woman, who flew back from England, tested positive following which restrictions on movement and business activities were imposed in the city. Even though restrictions have been relaxed in the city, fresh cases of infection — majorly from the Bapu Dham Colony containment zone — continue to come to the fore.Out of around 600 people sampled in Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26, as many as 129 have been found infected. The chain was triggered by a resident who works as an operation theatre attendant at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, after he was tested positive on April 24. The colony now accounts for 64.5% of the total cases in Chandigarh.Lagging behind on the testing, till April 24, the UT had sampled only 638 persons with the strict policy to test patients only with strong symptoms. However, after the Bapu Dham Colony outbreak, 2,393 suspected persons have been tested out of which 7.18% were found positive.With the testing numbers going up, fresh cases came to fore with total test positivity rate of Chandigarh standing at double the number of national average rate at one point of time. It reached its peak on May 11 with 8.3% of total persons tested turning positive. On Tuesday, test positivity rate stands at around 6.5% against 4.2% in India.The recovery rate for persons who have been tested negative after contracting infection stands at 29%, while after implementing the new discharge policy on Tuesday (which allows discharging asymptomatic and mild symptoms patients for home isolation), 34 patients have been discharged from the ayurvedic college in Sector 46. Three patients were also discharged from the PGIMER after two negative tests, including the GMCH-32 staffer from Bapu Dham Colony, who was first to test positive in the locality. With this the recovery rate has shot up to 45.5%.Dr BS Chavan, director principal, GMCH, said in strict implementation of Government of India’s new discharge policy, 34 patients have been discharged from the ayurvedic college in Sector 46 after 10 days of hospitalisation and have been kept in the post-discharge care centre in Sood Dharamshala.“Containing the situation in Bapu Dham Colony requires focus, not only in terms of screening, but testing as well as other methods available which are not as ‘sacred’ as testing but also can give effective results. Some of them which can be employed can be checking the oxygen saturation level of the persons within the containment zone majorly the high risk citizens,” a senior epidemiologist at the PGIMER, on the request of anonymity, said.The expert added that screening the whole population will not yield better results until persons with symptoms are tested.UT health secretary Arun Gupta said testing is being done strictly as per the protocol defined by the central government. “Testing numbers have increased gradually. More than 3,000 persons. At one point of time, doubling rate was 12 days, which is around 85 days now,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-new-covid-19-cases-in-chandigarh-take-total-count-of-positive-cases-to-199/story-6LN77Lrfk17TdJTpIhVFRN.html
