22-05-2020||City||Illegal entrants to US return to Doaba with shattered dreams, stare at heavy loans||For 20-odd illegal entrants to the US from Doaba districts of Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur and Kapurthala, all of whom returned to the country in a special flight of deportees from that country on May 19, the big worry of repayment of loans they took to fund their travel stares at them. Under quarantine for the moment, all of them took a loan between Rs 25 lakh and Rs 40 lakh on high-interest rate from private financiers and selling land. Ranjogh Singh, 21, (name changed) of Bhogpur in Jalandhar district, said, “Travel agents duped us and got us to take an illegal route. I reached Mexico only in September last year, where the agents dumped me. I hired a new agent to help me cross the Mexico border to reach the US, where we were caught and kept in a detention centre.”The only child in the family, Ranjogh says his mother paid ₹9 lakh to another agent, Jasso, of Jalandhar, who promised to get him released from the detention centre, but were duped again. “My US dream has ended in a nightmare. The agent, Jassi, will have to return my money and I will open a shop here.” Jatinder Singh, 26, of Dhirpur village left his house on July 11, travelling through the four countries of Dubai, Russia, finally entering America through Mexico on September 20. He too, however, was caught and remained in a detention centre. “I paid Rs 25 lakh to the agent. I request everyone who is planning to go the US to only take the proper route. We lost everything in trying the illegal route.”Rakesh Kumar, 21, of Hoshiarpur took a flight to Mexico from India on June 8, landing there on June 10. He entered the US on September 1 and then detention centres followed. His father Ashok Kumar claims that he got trapped in the sweet talk of a travel agent Ajay Srivastava and agreed to send his son to the US and paid ₹40 lakh (by taking ₹20 lakh on loan and ₹ 20 lakh by selling plot). Rakesh says, “My father is still paying Rs 30,000 a month as interest on loan he took.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/illegal-entrants-to-us-return-to-doaba-with-shattered-dreams-stare-at-heavy-loans/story-wMgSOsDuBBlE6RnMzdzAjL.html
22-05-2020||Chandigarh||Wheat stubble burning cases at 11,844, highest in two years||Even as the state government expected a dip in the number of wheat stubble burning cases this season due to the covid-19 pandemic, the number of such instances in the state has touched 11,844, the highest since 2018. In 2019, the number was 10,114 and 10,993 in 2018. The period in all these years was from April 15 to May 22. Friday itself saw 431 cases, with the 2018 figure on this date being 98, and 330 in 2019. In the state, wheat stubble is used to make dry fooder for cattle, and farmers burn only the leftover roots. These roots can be easily mixed in the soil, but some farmers find it easier to burn it to clear it.“It is shocking for us why farmers are not listening to the appeals issued by the government agencies, farm bodies and doctors. This time, burning stubble is very dangerous especially when the smoke emitted from farm fires attacks the lungs; the novel coronavirus also damages lungs,” said Harinder Singh Lakhowal, president, a faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU).He added they had been educating farmers on in-situ management of wheat stubble, something that they had been doing successfully for years. “Farmers in Bathinda, Sangrur and Barnala are more prone to breaking the law due to their leftist bent of mind and tendency to be anti-government,” Lakhowal claimed. State agriculture secretary Kahan Singh Pannu said, “We are taking punitive action against errant farmers, but I think we have to adopt strict measures to stop the nuisance. Farmers seem to be adamant and have, so far, not cared to follow orders.” Till May 30, the government has imposed a fine of Rs 33 lakh on farmers as environment compensation in 1,191 cases of stubble fires. Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) member secretary Krunesh Garg said environment compensation would also be levied in 1,368 other cases. “Special teams have visited 5,241 sites where stubble burning was reported,” he added. According to PPCB data compiled till Thursday, Moga has reported the most cases at 1,070; Bathinda (1,051); Ferozepur (997); Amritsar 1,009; Muktsar (925); Gurdaspur (800); Tarn Taran 770 and Ludhiana 648.‘KHARIF SEASON TO BE WORSE’Brijendra Pateria, regional head of the State Remote Sensing Centre which detects these fires, says, “Farmers are not listening to appeals and are simply burning wheat stubble. If this trend continues, kharif season will be far worse as farm fires are concerned. The government will need to take strict steps to check this.” He added that due to the pandemic, priorities of district administration and other departments tended to be different, but everybody must be on the same page to tackle the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/wheat-stubble-burning-cases-at-11-844-highest-in-two-years/story-Io0gwpJLzbISZXqgKK345N.html
22-05-2020||Lucknow||HC grants bail to Unnao rape survivor’s uncle||The Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court on Friday granted conditional bail to Mahesh Singh, uncle of Unnao rape survivor, in a cheating case registered against him at Kotwali police station, Unnao. Singh, who is lodged in Tihar jail, New Delhi, will be released on Saturday. Justice Vikas Kunvar Srivastav passed the order in his chamber. “I find force in submissions made by learned counsel for the bail-applicant. Therefore, the bail application is allowed,” the court said in the order.Singh, along with his wife who was killed in a road accident on July 28 last, has been instrumental in his niece’s fight for justice. The car in which the survivor, her lawyer and aunts were travelling on the day of the accident, was also provided to the lawyer by Singh. “All cases lodged against Mahesh Singh were fake. He has been falsely implicated and repeatedly so ever since his family fell out with the MLA and his family,” said the petitioner’s counsel Prashant Singh ‘Atal’. Kuldeep Singh Sengar, who was then BJP MLA from Unnao’s Bangarmau constituency and was later expelled from the party, and his aides had raped the girl on July 4, 2017.Sengar, his brother and three aides were convicted for culpable homicide not amounting to murder (Section 304), criminal conspiracy (120B), wrongful restraint (341), voluntarily causing hurt (323) of the Indian Penal Code and under relevant sections of the Arms Act. Sengar was later sentenced to life in December last year.Policemen Ashok Singh Bhadauria and KP Singh were also convicted for registering a false complaint (Sections 211 and 218) against the survivor’s father as well as for assaulting him in judicial custody.Sengar’s aides thrashed the survivor’s father and his co-worker on April 3, 2018, in Unnao, where he had gone to attend a hearing in the rape case. The survivor’s father died in the jail hospital five days later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/hc-grants-bail-to-unnao-rape-survivor-s-uncle/story-FVskclUdkqCG7t6yHU6LgJ.html
22-05-2020||City||Punjab hotel and restaurant association demands bar fee waiver for six months||The members of Punjab hotel and restaurant association met A Venu Prasad, Punjab financial commissioner (taxation), in Chandigarh on Friday and sought financial relief for the bar and hotel industry.The members demanded waiver of fee for running bars for atleast six months and permission to exchange expired beer without imposition of any fee or goods and services tax (GST).Association president Amarvir Singh and chief advisor Amarjit Singh Talwar said that 30% of the bars in the state had already been closed permanently due to the ongoing crisis.The bar owners have large stocks of beer, pertaining to last financial year, which has expired or is about to expire, as bars were closed since March 22.“If the state government fails to provide relief to the sector then we will suffer losses in crores and 70-80% of bars and restaurants owners will be forced to shut their operations. This will lead to large scale unemployment,” said Amarvir Singh.Amarvir Singh said that Prasad has assured them that the government would look into the demands and will soon provide some relief to the sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-hotel-and-restaurant-association-demands-bar-fee-waiver-for-six-months/story-Z5vja5B8eThkCgL9mRjlOP.html
22-05-2020||City||Patients at Thane quarantine facilities complain of dirty toilets and garbage heaps in corners||The Covid patients and suspects at Bhayandar Pada and New Horizon School in Ovala area have complained of unhygienic conditions. Unclean toilets, stained lobby, garbage heaps lying in the corners are some of the most common complaints by those lodged in these quarantine centres set up by the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC). Some have also found houseflies in the dal served to them in the food packets at Bhayandar pada.The number of Covid-19 cases has increased to 1,500 in the city. Due to an insufficient number of beds in hospitals and hotels, asymptomatic positive and suspected patients are kept in the quarantine centres.An 18-year-old positive patient from Sawarkarnagar who was admitted in New Horizon School quarantine centre on Monday, said, “There are more than 100 people admitted in this centre who use a single washroom. The washroom is foul-smelling and has not been cleaned in a long time. No one has even cleaned our room in the past five days.”The centre has around 1,000 beds. The lobby has heaps of scrap lying around. A 40-year-old patient said, “I am here for almost a week; however, no doctor has visited to check our condition. We are not provided with masks too. The toilets are in unhygienic condition, while the building is not even clean.”A family admitted to a quarantine centre in Bhayandar Pada has also had a terrible experience. A 38-year-old patient said, “The quality of food served to us is bad; however, we never complained. Today there were dead flies in dal, so we returned the meal. Even if a patient is fit, he will fall sick in this condition.”The civic body, however, has refuted most of the claims. Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of TMC, said, “We have made all the necessary arrangements at all our quarantine centres and there is no dearth of any facility. The Bhayandar Pada centre has a separate kitchen attached where food is prepared for all those staying at this centre. We have not received any complaints. Moreover, food is packed properly and then distributed to the residents. Apart from regular meals, we also provide them with eggs and milk for nutrition. However, if there is any such complaint, we will look into it. We will ensure that the building is cleaned.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patients-at-thane-quarantine-facilities-complain-of-dirty-toilets-and-garbage-heaps-in-corners/story-oKbOfvRVXS4NlA0aa7IcGO.html
22-05-2020||City||Citing fund crunch, CICU members seek release of GST refunds||To raise the problems being faced by the industry, the Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU) conducted a meeting through video conferencing with Ranjana Jha, chief commissioner of customs (preventive), North Zone, and all the commissioners of north India including AS Ranga, customs commissionerate, Ludhiana, on Friday. Leading exporters of north India attended the conference to share their issues including delay in release of goods and services tax (GST) refunds.The CICU members said that AS Ranga helped the exporters by guiding them about documentations and storing the goods in the containers during lockdown period.Ranjana Jha said that full cooperation will be provided to fix the problems of the exporters and all the pending integrated GST (IGST) refunds will be expedited within this week.CICU president Upkar Singh Ahuja and general secretary Pankaj Sharma emphasised on the need to expedite the process of releasing GST refunds citing lack of working capital with the entrepreneurs and financial crunch being faced by the exporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/citing-fund-crunch-cicu-members-seek-release-of-gst-refunds/story-fiOp88vKFm5yI6AUFsChuM.html
22-05-2020||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad case: NIA opposes interim bail pleas of Shoma Sen, VV Rao, Sudha Bhardwaj||The National Investigating Agency (NIA) has opposed the plea for interim bail filed by activists Dr Shoma Sen, Vara Vara Rao and Sudha Bhardwaj, who were booked for their role in the Elgar Parishad case. The three accused have moved the special court separately for interim bail on the grounds of Covid-19 outbreak in the prison and said they are at high-risk of contracting the virus.The three accused were booked by Pune police for being part of the conspiracy behind the riots that took place in Bhima Koregaon in Pune a day after Elgar Parishad. It is alleged that inflammatory speeches were delivered during the Elgar Parishad held on December 31, 2017, which led to the riots at Bhima Koregaon in Pune district on January 1, 2018. It is also claimed that the funds for the activities were received from Maoists. The case is currently being probed by NIA.On Friday when the pleas came up for hearing, special public prosecutor Prakash Shetty filed a reply opposing the plea on the grounds that the accused are booked under charges of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, hence are not eligible for release on temporary bail. The plea will be heard on May 28.Meanwhile, the special court has extended judicial custody of activist Dr Anand Teltumbde till June 5. The prison authorities have again failed to submit the medical report of Teltumbde on Friday, following which the court, on the plea of Teltumbde’s lawyers, has again called for the reports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/elgar-parishad-case-nia-opposes-interim-bail-pleas-of-shoma-sen-vv-rao-sudha-bhardwaj/story-WlvIYj6gLuWapYINq3RhJI.html
22-05-2020||Lucknow||ECG technician tests positive, cases rises to 29 in Gorakhpur||An ECG technician, employed with a private hospital, who had carried out test of a Covid-19 positive woman, has tested positive, taking the total number of cases in Gorakhpur to 29.However, the owner and doctors of the hospital tested negative after their reports were received on Thursday. In Gorakhpur district, three people have died of Covid-19 infection, while there are 23 active patients and three cured cases. Soon after the fresh case, the clinic located in the city’s posh area of Betiahata was sanitised and the locality was sealed by policemen who on loudspeakers appealed residents not to step out of homes and follow lockdown’s guidelines as the risk of infection had increased further.In neighboring Basti district, where 50 migrants labourers had tested positive in a single day on Wednesday, 16 more cases surfaced on Friday, taking total number of positive cases to 120 so far.Of these, 28 have been cured and discharged while two have died and rest of 90 are active cases, authorities informed.On March 31, Basti had reported the state’s first Covid-19 death when a 25-year-old Muslim youth, who was immunocompromised had died during treatment at BRD medical college.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/ecg-technician-tests-positive-cases-rises-to-29-in-gorakhpur/story-BxZv8oRDUcshlK9jLjUMCN.html
22-05-2020||City||Union leader Dada Samant kills self||Dada Samant, 92, union leader (for labour) and brother of late union leader Datta Samant killed himself at his residence in Borivali (East) on Friday. He left a suicide note mentioning illness and Covid-19 pandemic as reasons for ending life. The Dahisar police said that he, however, did not have Covid-19 disease. There is no foul play. He hanged himself while his wife was present in their flat. The Dahisar police have lodged an accidental death report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/union-leader-dada-samant-kills-self/story-mvWu5dKfluWXMEqGb0QW8I.html
22-05-2020||Chandigarh||Gangster, Cong sarpanch among 17 booked for killing Patiala man||A notorious gangster, Kanwar Randeep Singh Kharoud, who stirred a controversy after he joined the Congress in presence of Patiala MP Preneet Kaur during the Lok Sabha polls last year, and Tara Dutt, a Congress sarpanch from Vikas Nagar in Seouna village of Patiala, were among 17 people booked for killing a 35-year-old man in Patiala on Thursday night. Victim Shamsher Singh, a resident of Sukhram colony, was shot dead by Kharoud and his 16 accomplices when he was returning home after celebrating his birthday.Deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Sourav Jindal said the incident took place around 9.30 pm when Shamsher was accosted by the accused near his house. “They attacked him with sharp-edged weapons. One of the accused took out his revolver and fired at him. He sustained a bullet injury on his chest.”He was rushed to a local hospital where doctors declared him brought dead.“The accused had old enmity with the victim, who also had a criminal background. They had tried to attack him on multiple occasions in the past.” the DSP said.Police said four criminal cases were registered against the deceased.Police registered a case against Kharoud, Dutt, Sajan, Abbu, Lali, Chand Mohammad, Phul Mohammad, Pawan, Jatinder Shergill, Parmod, Vicky, Twinkle, Prince and four unidentified persons. They were booked under Sections 302 (murder), 148 (rioting), 149 (unlawful assembly) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of IPC and relevant sections of the Arms Act on the basis of a complaint filed by Shamsher’s brother Davinder Singh. SHO Anaj Mandi police station Gurnam Singh said “The accused are on the run and efforts are on to arrest them,” he said.Meanwhile, the family members of the deceased staged a protest demanding immediate arrest of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gangster-cong-sarpanch-among-17-booked-for-killing-patiala-man/story-wssfLH4k5ZBwpQ3N0XACaN.html
22-05-2020||Chandigarh||Covid effect: Caddies return to Chandigarh golf course as ball spotters||When the Chandigarh Golf Club reopened its course for the golfers on Wednesday after a long gap of 60 days due to the Covid-19 lockdown, an important part of the sport was missing on the sprawling greens — the caddy. Generally the lowest paid personnel in the sport of the elite, a caddy plays an important role in a golfer’s career. But the coronavirus situation has now put the caddy in a role different from accompanying the golfers and carrying their bags and clubs. With social distancing coming into play, the caddies will now be spotting the balls. For the last three days, the club has been screening its registered caddies who are living outside the containment zone of Bapu Dham Colony, and they will be on the course from Saturday. They will be stationed at a particular place on the fairways.“As far as professional golfers are concerned, caddy is an important asset and contributes in the performance on the greens. Caddy is the only one with whom a golfer can talk, discuss and take suggestions during the course of the game,” says Asian Tour winner Ajeetesh Sandhu. “For the last seven years, whenever I play in Chandigarh, Ankur Kumar has been my caddy. I met the 27-year-old yesterday, and he told me that he will be coming to the course from Saturday. I am happy that an important part of the sport is returning to the golf course,” adds Sandhu.The club management has identified 170 caddies living in Kishangarh and Kansal (outside the containment zone), out of which 144, in two batches, will be working as a ball spotters on a daily basis. The club is paying ₹200 per day to the remaining caddies as well.“This initiative will surely make golf more enjoyable as less time will be spent in searching for golf balls and filling up divots. With the spotter caddies being in place, the pace of play will improve and we may reduce the time slot between tee offs from 15 minutes to 10 minutes from the next week,” says club president Sandeep Singh Sandhu. “The caddies will go through the same screening protocol on a daily basis as the golfers do,” says Col APS Johal, general manager of then club.HOW CADDIES HELP A GOLFERA caddy’s job is not only to carry the golfer’s kit, but also advise them on many facets of the course during the event. “Knowing the etiquettes of the game, a caddy has to be at his best on the golf course. A good caddy understands the psychology of the golfer. If, during a match, a golfer hits a rough patch, the caddy needs to pull him out of it immediately,” says caddy Ankur. “During the tournament, I generally give feedback to the golfer on the correct putting line and the grains of the greens, besides keeping tabs on the movement of the wind,” says senior caddy Nobat Ram, 45, who is one of the most sought-after caddies at the club. He has the distinction of being a caddy to top professionals like Jeev Milkha Singh, Amandeep Johal and Gurbaz Mann, and has travelled with them to eight international tournaments to Asian countries. His latest overseas outing was to Malaysia with Jeev in the first week of March before the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-effect-caddies-return-to-chandigarh-golf-course-as-ball-spotters/story-BfIRrUI8WoqxLvZJEokpCI.html
22-05-2020||City||15 more test positive in HP’s Hamirpur; state’s tally at 167||Sixteen more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh’s Hamirpur and Kangra districts on Friday, taking the state’s tally to 168.With this, the active cases in the state have gone up to 106, special secretary (health), Himachal Pradesh, Nipun Jindal said.Hamirpur deputy commissioner Harikesh Meena said that among the patients, six were women, including four of a family. All have returned from Mumbai and were under institutional quarantine.A 41-year-old woman from Khungal village of Naduan subdivision and her three daughters aged 17, 15 and 11, respectively have been tested positive. They returned from Mumbai on May 14 and the woman’s husband was already tested positive on May 16.Two Mumbai returnees, a 31-year-old woman and 19-year-old youth, from Dasvin village of Galod area in Nadaun were also tested positive.Three people, including a 41-year-old woman; a 78-year-old elderly man and his 23-year-old son were among the patient. Besides, a 29-year-old man from Phahlu village of Barsar subdivision and a father-son duo aged 55 and 23 years were also positive. Details of two more people whose test came out positive in the evening are awaited.Two cases were reported from Kangra late evening.One patient, a 28-year-old man hailing from Thural in Jaisinghpur subdivision works in a shipping company and returned from Mumbai on May 18 in a taxi. He was under institutional quarantine, said Deputy Commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati. Another patient is a 49-year-old man from Bharmar village in Jawali sub-division who returned from Delhi on May 13. He was also under institutional quarantine. They are being shifted to Covid-care centre at BaijnathNotably, Hamirpur has recorded 45 cases in just two days and leads the chart with 60 cases in the state.The state has 168 Covid-19 cases, including three casualties. Fifty-eight cases have been reported in just two days.Kangra is the second worst-hit district with 43 cases. Both the districts share 61% of the disease burden between them with 101 cases.Fourteen cases have been reported in Solan, thirteen in Chamba district, seven in Bilaspur, six in Mandi, four in Sirmaur and one each in Shimla and Kullu.A total of 55 people have been cured of the virus in the state, including 18 people over the week.So far, 24, 032 people have been tested for Covid-19 in the state. About 1,500 tests are being done daily in the state.More than 24,769 people are under active surveillance. Over 81,000 people who returned from other states are home quarantined and 6,500 have been placed under institutional quarantine..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/15-more-test-positive-in-hp-s-hamirpur-state-s-tally-at-167/story-J5bbsJTJjaJd9TY7wTUWfL.html
22-05-2020||Lucknow||Virtual iftar marks last Friday of Ramzan||After days of fasting it was time for a virtual feast on the last Friday of the holy month of Ramzan. As gatherings are prohibited in corona times, people from India and abroad got together for an online iftar.The event, organized by educationists and academicians in the city, began with everyone breaking the fast together and praying for safety during the pandemic and the Amphan cyclone that has hit parts of India.Maulana Kausar Nadwi explained how fasting helped develop of empathy towards those who suffered hunger due to poverty. He also expressed concern over the pandemic. Mohd Saifullah who works with a software company joined from Amsterdam.A recorded video message of Islamic scholar and chairman, All India Payam-e- Insaniyat Forum, Maulana Bilal Hasani was played as he could not connect due to technical snag. He stressed the importance of unity to overcome the corona crisis and prayed for the nation’s safety.The efforts of Taha Mahmood and his non-profit society in providing assistance to more than 1000 families during the ongoing lockdown were acknowledged by everyone.Dr Noor Khan, former principal, Karamat Hussain Girls College said that the pandemic taught the importance of Indian culture of ‘Namaste’. The live virtual iftar event was organized by City Montessori School, Rajendra Nagar campus I and hosted by principal Jayshree Krishnan.Students, past pupils and their families, guests, and prominent alumni from across the globe attended it.CMS founder Jagdish Gandhi emphasized the need for universal brotherhood to overcome challenges faced globally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/virtual-iftar-marks-last-friday-of-ramzan/story-bE4LPWCABJdHRQaFl95oVO.html
22-05-2020||Chandigarh||HC orders time-bound probe into ‘stripping’ of three men at Khanna police station||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday directed Punjab director general of police (DGP) to conduct a time-bound probe -- by a special investigation team (SIT), if required -- into the allegations regarding stripping of three men at the Khanna police station in Ludhiana last year.“The facts, as mentioned in the petition along with the documents, should make us hang our head in shame that we are living in a society allowing such things to happen by an official of the police department, ... at the behest of an influential person ... for their own motives,” the bench of justice Nirmaljit Kaur observed.The report of the investigating agency along with action taken report be placed before the court on the next date of hearing, the bench added, posting the matter for July 8.The high court acted on the petition of three persons, including a father-son duo, who were allegedly stripped naked and a video of the act was shot.They had demanded that an FIR be registered against the erring police official for unlawful confinement, recording naked videos and further circulating it. They had also demanded that steps be taken to ensure their safety.The complainants belong to Khanna and come from scheduled caste (SC) families.The DGP had already ordered a probe into the matter in April. However, complainants’ counsel DS Sobti had told the court that in spite of the DGP ordering a probe. nothing has happened so far. The video was shot in June 2019, when petitioners were picked up by the police allegedly at the behest of a local Congress leader. The allegations regarding stripping are against the then Khanna Sadar SHO, Baljinder Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-orders-time-bound-probe-into-stripping-of-three-men-at-khanna-police-station/story-wWnguRUFx4aVe6RvvReyKL.html
22-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn extends retirees’ stay at govt houses till May 31||In a relief to employees living in government houses, the UT administration has decided to consider the period from March 1 to May 31 as Dies Non (which does not count for legal purposes) in respect of the allottees or occupants. It means that this period will not be counted for eviction or entry. It has also been decided that no penal rent will be charged for the period from employees who are unable to vacate their official residences. The usual house vacation or occupation period has also been accordingly extended. The move will particularly help more than 200 UT administration and municipal corporation employees who retired on March 31. An official spokesperson said, “Covid-19 has been declared a pandemic by World Health Organization (WHO) and to control its spread, a nationwide lockdown has been imposed. Furthermore, the Chandigarh administration had imposed curfew to prevent the spread of the infection. Many allottees could not move in or vacate their houses due to lockdown.”Balwinder Singh, president of Subordinate Services Federation, Chandigarh administration, and Municipal Corporation Employee Union, said, “The administration has taken the right step. However, they should have extended it till December 31.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-admn-extends-retirees-stay-at-govt-houses-till-may-31/story-iz7f3SJ1jCWVCtPVkgaoEI.html
22-05-2020||Lucknow||UP govt order probe into PTR tiger’s death||The Uttar Pradesh government has ordered an inquiry after the autopsy report of an adult tiger, the decomposed body of which was found in Pilibhit Tiger Reserve (PTR) on Wednesday, failed to establish the cause of its death. Chief conservator, Bareilly zone, Lalit Verma has set up a two-member panel comprising conservator of Bareilly circle, Javed Akhtar and divisional forest officer of Bareilly, Bharat Lal, to probe the matter and submit a report within a week.Meanwhile, field director of PTR, H. Rajamohan has suspended two forest staff members for laxity.The autopsy was conducted in Bareilly’s Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) by veterinary officer Dr Abhijeet M Pawde, and Dr Rajul Saxena, a government veterinary officer posted in Pilibhit.A representative each of National Tiger Conservation Authority, Dr Daksh Gangwar, and of chief wildlife warden of UP Naresh Kumar was present at the time of the autopsy besides PTR’s field director.The panel has preserved the samples of the tiger’s bone marrow for further examination.Samples of internal organs or muscles could not be collected as maggots and scavengers had virtually devoured the flesh. Even the bone marrow had dried up.None of the tiger’s bones was found to be fractured but one of its canines was loose.In the last census, PTR had just over 50 tigers. A couple of weeks ago, an adult tiger, which was attacked and injured by villagers in Pilibhit, died during a botched rescue attempt by forest department officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-govt-order-probe-into-ptr-tiger-s-death/story-H2UaFhiQlwgy41PN3qp1gP.html
22-05-2020||Chandigarh||Pesticide dealer booked for cheating in Ferozepur||Police have booked a pesticide trader at Gober Mandi, Ferozepur, for cheating after district chief agriculture officer (CAO) conducted a raid at his shop and found him stocking a pesticide without the requisite documents. CAO Gurmail Singh said agriculture development officer Charnajit Singh and his team recovered 23 plastic bottles of Corgon (a herbal bio-insect control) without any manufacturing license number and CIR number from M/s Harish Traders. He added that the department had seized the bottles and sent the material for testing. The CAO added that the bottle was being sold as a herbal bio-insect control through misleading information and the police was asked to book the owner and the supplier. The CAO added that the campaign to keep a check on spurious insecticides would continue under the Tandarust Mission Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pesticide-dealer-booked-for-cheating-in-ferozepur/story-KdCQblS6mTHAaSpN8BJeVM.html
22-05-2020||Chandigarh||BJP leader descending from second floor balcony using cloth falls down, fractures foot||A BJP functionary from Karnal fractured his foot after taking a fall off the second floor of an apartment building in Sector 63 on Friday evening. Police said Chanderprakash Kathuria, who hails from Sector 13, Karnal, and is a former chairman of Sugarfed, fell down while trying to descend from the balcony of an apartment with the help of a cloth.Police said Kathuria, who is in his 50s, was visiting a woman for some official work. Meanwhile, another person visited the flat, and as Kathuria did not want to run into him, he tried to descend from the second floor balcony using a cloth, but lost his grip and fell down.He was taken to Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), where he is under treatment.Police said he was unfit to make a statement. A daily diary report was made at the Sector 49 police station. Further investigation is underway||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bjp-leader-descending-from-second-floor-balcony-using-cloth-falls-down-fractures-foot/story-txG3IFwWgVUYbGtUpLdMrO.html
22-05-2020||Lucknow||No long queues, Muslims offer ‘Namaz-e-Alvida’ at their homes||With all the mosques shut for public, Muslims in the state capital offered Namaz-e-Alvida indoors here on the last Friday of Ramzan.Only those who reside on the premises of the mosques offered prayers inside that too while maintaining the social distancing. Maulana Khalid Rasheed Farangi Mahali, Imam Eidgah said, the norms of lockdown 4.0 was completely followed by the people of the Muslim community as Alvida Namaaz was offered indoors.He also lauded the patience of the Muslim community saying, “The members of the community remained indoors and offered Namaz at homes. And not only namaz but Taraweh prayers too were offered while staying indoors,” he said.The Sunni cleric also made an appeal to offer Eid Namaaz also at the respective homes in order to avoid any mass gathering. Besides, he also appealed people to donate at least 50 percent of the Eid budget to the needy. He said the Eid moon will be sighted on May 23.Similarly, Shia Muslims too offered Namaz at home as all Shia mosques remained closed in wake of the ongoing lockdown aimed to contain the outbreak of Covid-19. Shia cleric Maulana Kalbe Jawwad also made an appeal to co-operate with the state government in fighting the deadly virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/no-long-queues-muslims-offer-namaz-e-alvida-at-their-homes/story-9LtMloDKzjb6jnaR9t13VI.html
22-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab govt transfers 11 IAS, 19 PCS officers||Punjab government on Thursday transferred eleven IAS and 19 PCS officers with immediate effect.As per the orders, Kumar Rahul, secretary health and family welfare, and director, mines and geology, has also been given the charge of managing director, Punjab Health System Corporation, relieving Manvesh Sidhu, who will now be secretary, Revenue and Rehabilitation.Chandar Gaind, secretary corporation, has now been posted as secretary animal husbandry, whereas Karnesh Sharma, director, general administration department, will now be special secretary, forest and wildlife with additional charge of special secretary, medical education and research.Harpreet Singh Sudan, ADC (general), Hoshiarpur, will now be director general employment generation and training and Ruhee Dugg, ADC (general), Barnala, has been posted as additional secretary, housing and urban development.Jaspreet Singh will now been additional secretary, food and civil supplies, whereas Palavi has been posted as ADC (development) Tarn Taran. Amit Kumar Panchal, SDM, Nakodar, will now be ADC (general) Hoshiarpur, Aaditya Dachwal as ADC (general), Barnala, and Gautam Jain as SDM, Nakodar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-govt-transfers-11-ias-19-pcs-officers/story-AC37gdKu5LLyp1lA6toENK.html
22-05-2020||City||Navi Mumbai records 1,500 total cases||With 65 new cases on Friday, Navi Mumbai’s tally is 1,500. The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) on Friday also recorded two deaths.Among those who have tested positive are three children – an eight-year-old girl and two 5- year-old girls.Panvel recorded 14 new Covid positive cases on Friday, taking the total to 332. A 47-year-old woman from Kalamboli died. She was suffering from typhoid and had tested positive for Covid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navi-mumbai-records-1-500-total-cases/story-ePc33IPrTnQTDTBlsGzIiM.html
22-05-2020||Gurugram||City experiences hottest day of the season; near heatwave conditions likely to prevail||The city on Friday experienced the hottest day of the season so far with the day temperature rising to 44 degrees Celsius. On Thursday, the city had recorded a maximum temperature of 42.5 degrees Celsius.The Palam observatory in Delhi, which according to the MeT department officials gives an accurate reading of Gurugram’s weather, also recorded a season-high temperature of 45.4 degrees Celsius on Friday.Near heat wave conditions are likely to prevail in the city over the next three days with the mercury expected to rise by a few more degree Celsius, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Friday.“Heat wave is likely to continue over a few places in Delhi-NCR from May 23 till 25. Clear skies and dry north-westerly winds blowing over Northwest India and Delhi-NCR have made conditions favourable for heatwaves,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of the IMD’s regional forecasting centre in Delhi.“Two conditions have to be met for the declaration of a heat wave. First, the maximum temperature has to touch 45 degree Celsius. Second, the temperature must be 4.5 degrees above the normal temperature,” said Srivastava.Past data from Gurugram is insufficient due to which weather inference is drawn mainly by relying on Palam observatory data for estimating the departure from normal. “Gurugram has an automatic weather station and there is no past record of data. Palam is already facing heat wave conditions on the basis of which we can say that Gurugram is also facing near heat-wave conditions,” Srivastava.On Friday, the minimum temperature was recorded at 23.7 degrees Celsius. While the minimum temperature is predicted to rise by a degree and touch 25 on Saturday, the maximum temperature is likely to remain in the range of 44-45 degree Celsius for the next few days, as per an IMD forecast.The air quality in the city remained in the ‘moderate’ category on Friday, according to the Central Pollution Control Board’s air quality index (AQI) bulletin. The city recorded an AQI reading of 139, a marginal deterioration from the previous day’s 123. The average daily concentration of particulate matter (PM) 2.5, the city’s most prominent pollutant, on Friday was 81.9 µg/m³, as per the HSPCB’s official air quality monitor at Vikas Sadan.As per the IMD’s weekly forecast, a clear sky is likely to prevail this week for the most part with temperatures staying within the range of 44-45 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/city-experiences-hottest-day-of-the-season-near-heatwave-conditions-likely-to-prevail/story-KjHbkxB6oc9hQW9EsQ5hTK.html
22-05-2020||Gurugram||Boy separated from relatives found in Fatehabad; sent home||A 14-year-old boy, who had come to Haryana from Assam for work and got separated from his relatives during the lockdown, was sent home from Gurugram through a special train on Friday evening. According to the police, he was found wandering around in Fatehabad district and then shifted to a relief camp there.The boy, who was identified by his first name as Rajmohan, is a native of Lakhimpur, Assam. The police said that he had come to Haryana with his relatives to look for work. Subhash Boken, spokesperson, city police, said, “Due to the lockdown, he somehow got separated from his relatives and was left behind. Fatehabad Police found him wandering around in their district, after which he was shifted to a relief camp there.”The police said that the boy stayed at the relief camp for around a month where he was provided with food and all the basic necessities. The police personnel helped him stay in touch with his parents, residents of Lakhimpur, through mobile calls. Bhim Singh, spokesperson, Fatehabad Police, said, “When we got to know that Gurugram administration has arranged special trains for migrant workers to go their native states, we booked a ticket for Rajmohan too. On Friday, we took him to Gurugram, from where he boarded the train to Assam for his home town.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/boy-separated-from-relatives-found-in-fatehabad-sent-home/story-EeOfakOygoP7luHVTNhJXP.html
22-05-2020||Gurugram||Health department collects swab samples of 30 police personnel||The health department collected swab samples of 30 police personnel on Thursday and Friday to test them for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) after a police officer of Udyog Vihar police station, who was deployed at Sirhaul border, reported unwell, said the police.A sub-inspector deployed at Sirhaul border police post reported symptoms of fever and cold on Thursday after which he visited the Civil Hospital and was placed under quarantine at the Police Lines. His samples have been collected and reports are awaited, said doctors.Following this, health officials in the district have been collecting samples from police personnel attached to Udyog Vihar police station and their close contacts.Health officials said they have collected samples from around 30 people, who are his primary contacts. They are still preparing a list of his other contacts, said a health official.The swab samples of around 30 police personnel attached to the Udyog Vihar police station were collected on Thursday and Friday, said a doctor. The family and friends of the patient have also been tested.Devinder Singh, station house officer(SHO) of Udyog Vihar police station, said that public dealing in the police station is now conducted through a glass partition to ensure social distancing. “The staff deployed in public dealing has been directed to maintain social distancing and use sanitisers after every dealing. No one is allowed to enter without a face mask and if anyone is unable to procure, we are providing them with safety gear,” he said.The police station is regularly being sanitised to ensure safety of all the staff and people visiting the station.According to police sources, 40 police personnel were attached to Udyog Vihar police station. Among them, samples were collected from 30 persons. Samples will be collected from the remaining 10 policemen within two days. In addition to this, health officials will also be collecting samples from other personnel deployed at the border.Gurugram police commissioner Muhammad Akil said that the police personnel on Covid-19 duty are involved in a high-risk job. “We have put a standard operating procedure in place to prevent infection among the personnel on Covid-19 duty and also those deployed in the police station and other duties. We have assigned a senior officer who is the nodal officer to address their issues. We have provided the force with adequate safety gear and sanitisers to ensure that they are safe,” he said.Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, chief medical officer (CMO), Gurugram said that they have collected the samples and reports are awaited. “We will collect samples of all close contacts if any of them found positive”, he saidEarlier in the month, three police constables had tested positive for coronavirus disease and were placed under quarantine at the Police Lines as they were asymptomatic in nature. The officials who were tested positive came in contact with Covid-19 positive people, including a man who had committed suicide. Three of them are in their 20s. They were posted at Bajghera and Sector 17/18 police stations respectively and were on Covid-19 duty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/health-department-collects-swab-samples-of-30-police-personnel/story-UKUFsWO4Q477vJbi10YzFM.html
22-05-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram to use TrueNat tests before discharging Covid-19 patients||The district health department is likely to start using TrueNat tests from Monday at the old civil hospital for conducting confirmatory tests on Covid-19 patients before discharging them from hospitals.TrueNat— a diagnostic machine used for testing drug-resistant tuberculosis— has recently been validated by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for confirmatory detection of the Sars-Cov-2 virus (which causes the coronavirus disease) to boost testing capacities.On April 10, ICMR had approved the use of TrueNat for screening purposes only. The guidelines were revised on May 21 with ICMR recommending it as a screening as well as a confirmatory test for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).“TrueNat is as effective as Reverse Transcription – Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) test— a laboratory method used for detecting coronavirus,” said Dr Vijay Kumar, district tuberculosis officer.“The TrueNat is a diagnostic tool, which involves two-step step process —E gene screening assay for the suspected Covid-19 samples followed by a confirmatory assay of RdRp gene. As per the ICMR guidelines, if the E gene screening is negative, the sample will be considered as true negative. But if the sample is positive, the RdRp assay will be done, which will serve as a confirmatory test. If the sample tests positive, it will be considered as true positive and an RT-PCR test will not be required furhter,” said Dr Kumar.Dr Kumar said the turnaround time for a single test is around 40 minutes. “Two samples can be processed at a time. Initially, we would test 35 samples a day,” he said. As many as eight lab technicians will be trained on Saturday by a team appointed by the central government to conduct TrueNat tests, he added.Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, district chief medical officer (CMO), said, “The TueNat test will be primarily used as a confirmatory test before discharging a patient. It will save time and reduce the burden on the state lab. Also, high-risk contacts need to be tested immediately and we will use TrueNat tests then. For fresh suspected cases, we will continue to send samples for RT-PCR tests to Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) in Rohtak” According to Dr Kumar, the TrueNat machine— provided by the state government— will be installed at the district tuberculosis centre in the old Civil Hospital near Bus Stand Road where tuberculosis tests are being already conducted. “In case there is any technical issue, the machine will be installed at the Primary Health Centre in Wazirabad,” he said adding that ICMR allows TrueNat Covid-19 testing in district hospitals and at the primary health centre level.The TrueNat machine is portable and runs on battery and consists of an inbuilt device that extracts RNA extraction, officials added. Like RT-PCR tests, throat and nasal swabs will be collected for TrueNat testing.Since February the RT-PCR has been used to test more than 11,000 samples in Gurugram. Initially, the samples were sent to All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi, but were later sent to PGIMS, Rohtak and Bhagat Phool Singh Government Medical College, Sonepat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-to-use-truenat-tests-before-discharging-covid-19-patients/story-qfZBohJrsme179yRIzqyRM.html
22-05-2020||Lucknow||‘Ram temple site in Ayodhya a Buddhist Sthal’||Claiming that the ancient artefacts found during the land levelling work at Ram Janmabhoomi in Ayodhya on Thursday proved that it was a Buddha Sthal (Buddhist pilgrimage site), Congress leader Udit Raj demanded analysis of the recovered items by Archaeological Survey of India (ASI).In a tweet on Friday, the former MP stated that the ‘Dhamma Chakra’ and ‘Stupas’ recovered from the site bore testimony to his claim. “I am not commenting on the Supreme court verdict as the Apex Court had said it was a matter of faith. But all I am demanding is to get the area studied properly by a team of ASI so that historical facts were not distorted as evidence prove that the place is a centre of Buddhism. The ‘Dhamma Chakra’ and ‘Stupas’ found at the site of proposed temple is a clear evidence of what I am saying,” he said.“It is a historical fact that Faxian, the Chinese Buddhist monk who had travelled to India, had written about the presence of 100 Ashoka Stupas in Ayodhya. All I want is to save historical facts and not let it get distorted,” he added.The ground levelling work at the proposed site of Ram temple construction started from May 11.Caption Ancient artefacts recovered from proposed site of ram temple in Ayodhya recently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/ram-temple-site-in-ayodhya-a-buddhist-sthal/story-aDrCNpNa4sRnkI72niQ2hP.html
22-05-2020||Gurugram||HSIIDC increases FAR for plots for housing migrant workers||In a significant move that will help boost affordable housing for migrant workers in industrial estates and townships of the district, the Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) has approved a 10% increase in the Floor Area Ratio (FAR) for industrial housing on plots of one acre or more in the industrial estates developed by it. This new rule will also cover the new policy for the allotment of housing units and dormitories for industrial workers on a leasehold basis, the agency said. The decision was taken in a board meeting of HSIIDC under the chairmanship of Rajesh Khullar, principal secretary to the chief minister of Haryana, on Thursday.The decision to increase FAR assumes importance in the backdrop of large scale migration of industrial workers from Gurugram and other areas of Haryana, who worked in the industrial estates of Manesar, Udyog Vihar, Rewari and other areas across the state until the nationwide lockdown brought industrial activity to a standstill. High rent and localisation of these residential facilities in concretised villages have been the reasons why the migrants workers have made a beeline to return to their native states in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh, admit local industrialists.Presently, the FAR allowed by HSIIDC at its plots is 1.25, which can be extended to 1.50 if the plot owner pays the charges for increase in the FAR. The new directive by the industrial agency allows for a 10% increase in the FAR, which means the industrialists will be able to build more housing on their plots for accommodating the workers. The draft policy shall be uploaded shortly on the official website of HSIIDC for inviting comments from allottees and stakeholders, the authority said.The FAR is the ratio of a building’s total floor area to the size of the plot upon which it is built. It decides the amount of construction that can be carried out on a plot. Any increase in this limit allows for increased construction.Anurag Agarwal, managing director, HSIIDC, in a statement issued on Thursday evening said that this proposal has been considered in the view of post-Covid scenario, wherein in-situ housing of workers / labourers will be prioritised. This policy is beneficial, considering the increased requirement of ready-to-move-in premises as well as liquidity and time constraints of the industrialists to invest in labour housing.“This will act as an incentive to retain workers and provide them with the facilities at a minimum cost. The HSIIDC has ready-to-move-in dwelling units and dormitories for industrial workers at IMT, Manesar as well as in Industrial Estate, Kundli”, he added.At present, the majority of labourers working in the industrial areas of Gurugram and Manesar stays in Kasan, Khoh, Aliar, Baas Haria, Dundahera, Mollahera, Nathupur, Chakkarpur, Sirhaul and similar villages that have turned into large urban clusters, thereby increasing the rates of rental accommodation.The industrialists based in Gurugram and Manesar, meanwhile, welcomed the move but said that additional FAR should be given free of cost to the industry as it is reeling under intense financial pressure. “We welcome this move as it will boost housing for workers as presently they are living in villages located inside the industrial estates or adjacent to the industrial areas. The living conditions and basic hygiene in these areas are appalling and the rent is very high. We will work with the government to make this proposal successful,” said Manmohan Gaind, vice president, Manesar Industries Welfare Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/hsiidc-increases-far-for-plots-for-housing-migrant-workers/story-G72SlAfxtwp7JibJTRdt8J.html
22-05-2020||Gurugram||Manesar industry owners start drive to stop exodus of workers||The industry owners in Manesar on Friday started a drive to stop the exodus of the migrant workers by convincing them to stay back and appealing to them to join duty. Industry owners say that the shortage of workers has started negatively affecting the industrial activity in the region.In Gurugram, more than 3 lakh migrant workers are still waiting for their return to Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and other states. The IMT Manesar industry association has hired a vehicle and deployed two people to visit every village around Manesar over the next two days and talk to migrants to convince them to stay back.These workers were engaged as casual labourers in industries and construction work. After the national lockdown was announced on March 25 to stop the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), they turned jobless. Additionally, the fear of catching the infection has made them restless to leave the city.According to sources belonging to Labour Welfare Fund, there are approximately 12.27 lakh labourers in Gurugram, a majority of whom have left the city over the past few weeks. Of the 1,100 odd industries in the district, the labour shortage now has begun showing its adverse impact on many.Pawan Yadav from IMT industry association said, “I have appealed to all migrants who were working in my factory to join duty but 70% of them are reluctant to join work and want to return home. Activities, such as loading and unloading of goods, housekeeping and security, have been badly affected by the labour shortage.Salary is not the issue here, but they have made up their mind to return because of the fear of Covid-19. We have started a drive to convince them that they are safe here with job, accommodation and schooling of their kids.”Starting Monday, the team would visit Udyog Vihar, Sector 34, 37 and other areas.Ravinder Goel, industry owner, Manesar, said, “This is a good idea as we are now trying to connect directly with migrants. We are suffering due to labour shortage now and the industry will be in a bad shape if they all move out. In the district, 70 to 80% workers are from the neighbouring states and they form the backbone of the industry and the construction business in the region.”The drive began with chanting of morning prayers, slogan or motto by a group of workers who have already joined the duties in factories at Manesar.“These workers have joined their duties and now they have decided to speak to their friends as a part of their commitment to the drive,” Yadav said, adding that industrial activities have been hit badly in the absence of casual workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/manesar-industry-owners-start-drive-to-stop-exodus-of-workers/story-6hKPKXQJpoxwnRxPlPwhrI.html
22-05-2020||Chandigarh||Amarinder announces relief measures for real estate sector||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday announced a slow of relief measures for the real estate sector, including six-month extension in the permissible period for construction of plots and projects for all allottees, whether private or allotted by state urban authorities.The relief measures are applicable to all urban development authorities in the state, and will be restricted to the amount due from April 1, 2020 to September 30, 2020.In a statement, the chief minister said that notwithstanding the huge financial implications for his government, it has been decided to support the real estate sector, which has suffered major disruptions due to the Covid-19 crisis.Referring to the financial implications of the six-month extension in construction period, the CM said that since development authorities annually receive non-construction fee of nearly Rs 35 crore, this particular relaxation would lead to reduction in receipt to the tune of Rs 17-18 crore for all authorities put together.Amarinder also announced that all urban development authorities have been directed not to charge non-construction charges, extension fee, licence renewal fee for the period between April 1 and September 30.PAYMENT OF INSTALMENTSThe government has also allowed payment of instalments (including interest) of all auctioned properties due between April 1 and September 30, along with the remaining instalments, as equated instalments at the scheme’s rate of interest.Also, no interest will be charged on the instalments due between April 1 and September 30, and thereafter, the scheme interest will be charged on the amount due. “This particular relief can also be availed for post-dated cheques of amounts deposited against external development charges, licence fee, social infrastructure fund etc, under amnesty policy of November 28, 2019 payable up to September 15, 2020 (including those which were due on March 31, 2020,” said a government spokesperson.ALLOWS PHASING OF EDC PAYMENTAmarinder also gave concurrence to the proposal mooted by the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) to allow phasing in payment of external development charge (EDC) as per the release of layout plans. However, rate of EDC payable will be applicable at the time of approval of layout plans. The spokesperson said, “Given the criticality and urgency of the situation, the chief minister, as chairman of the development authorities, has decided to announce immediate relief measures for six months, thus giving time to the authorities to come out with comprehensive long-term package. Post-facto approval of all the decisions announced by the chief minister would be taken by the authorities concerned at the earliest.”These urgent relief measures are in addition to certain incentives decided by the housing and urban development ministry, including extension by six months in the moratorium in payment of instalments in case of auctioned properties, the spokesperson said. The ministry has also decided that share of ownership can be transferred by urban development authorities in case of auctioned sites on proportionate payment plus 15%, subject to minimum transfer of ownership of 20% at one instance. Permission to sell specific built-up area marked on the layout plan can be given to developers thereafter, in the same proportion subject to having obtained the occupation certificate for such units.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amarinder-announces-relief-measures-for-real-estate-sector/story-itS2YWmDOwI6w0X4aah6hJ.html
22-05-2020||Gurugram||38-year-old caterer kills himself, 10 booked for abetment||A 38-year-old man allegedly hanged himself to death in his house in Sector 3A Thursday, police said.The man, who worked as a caterer, purportedly wrote in a note found from the spot that 10 persons had not returned the ₹10 lakh they had borrowed from him. The police have booked the 10 people for abetment to suicide. According to the police, the man was from Rajasthan and had been staying in Gurugram for the last 12 years. They had his wife found him hanging early Thursday morning, they added. The police said the man had written in the note that the suspects, many of whom are also caterers, had borrowed money from him before the lockdown but did not pay him back. The man’s catering business is believed to have taken a hit amid the ongoing lockdown.A police officer privy to the investigation said, “The man’s wife alleged that for the last few days he was asking the suspects to return his money. The man had himself taken some loans from other people. But the suspects did not pay him. His catering business was already affected due to the lockdown in the wake of the coronavirus (Covid-19) outbreak.”Rattan Singh, investigative officer (IO), Sector 9A police station, said, “The suspects are yet to be arrested. We are investigating the case.” He added that the man’s body was handed over to his family members after an autopsy on Thursday.A case was registered against the suspects under sections 306 (abetment to suicide) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Sector 9A police station on Thursday, police said.Gurugram does not have a dedicated helpline to deal with such situations. A few major suicide prevention helpline numbers in India are +914066202000 from ‘Roshni’ (Hyderabad-based) and +914424640050 from Sneha India Foundation (Delhi-based).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/38-year-old-caterer-kills-himself-10-booked-for-abetment/story-EkVn75fGexKnpQj5Xzm6GP.html
22-05-2020||Gurugram||75-year-old man is second Covid-19 fatality in Gurugram, 10 new cases reported||A 75-year-old man, resident of Rajendra Park in Gurugram, died of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences(PGIMS), in Rohtak Thursday night, health department officials said. This is the second Covid-19 death to be reported from Gurugram so far.The patient was referred to PGIMS, Rohtak on May 16 after he complained of breathlessness at the Sector 10 Civil Hospital. The deceased was suffering from tuberculosis. Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, district chief medical officer (CMO), said, “The Covid-19 patient had compromised lungs due to his history of tuberculosis. He complained of breathlessness and was referred to PGIMS on May 16 for tertiary care. He tested Covid-19 positive on May 18 and died on May 21. Samples of eight family members have been collected for testing.” On Thursday, a 33-year-old man, also a patient of tuberculosis, had succumbed to Covid-19 at PGIMS. The patient, a resident of sector 53, had tested positive for Sars-Cov-2 on May 18 at PGIMS, after he was referred there from the Sector 10 Civil Hospital because of his deteriorating health condition.Meanwhile, the city on Friday reported 10 new cases of Covid-19 taking the total count of cases to 250. Out of the 10 new cases, five cases are from Patauadi. “Four people are from Dadawas village, who were admitted at Bhora Kalan quarantine centre in Pataudi, tested positive. Also, a high-risk contact in Pataudi is also Covid-19 positive,” Punia said. Earlier this week, Pataudi was de-notified as a containment zone after no new cases were reported in 28 days.One case each has been reported from Chakkarpur (Sector 28), Kadipur, Sirhol, Dharam Colony (Palam Vihar Extension), and Dundahera. Out of the total Covid- 19 cases, 140 people have been discharged so far. According to the district health bulletin, the two deaths have not taken into account in the district’s tally yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/75-year-old-man-is-second-covid-19-fatality-in-gurugram-10-new-cases-reported/story-iZi6UqTb7bQAr8TSnKyU3M.html
22-05-2020||City||Ggm: RWAs take steps to allow entry of visitors to societies||Gurugram: Residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) across the city on Friday initiated steps for allowing the entry of visitors to their colonies, a day after the district administration permitted guests’ entry into societies with riders.Issuing fresh guidelines for the fourth phase of the lockdown, the district administration on Thursday evening answered frequently asked questions (FAQs) for condominiums, societies, and residential sectors. Under the category “guidelines for visitors”, the administration said that entry of outsiders, including family and non-family visitors, are permitted, except those from containment zones. “However, they are subject to adequate social distancing protocols,” stated the administration’s order. On Friday, RWAs across the city started implementing the directions in a varied manner.For example, both Harmony in Nirvana Country and Princeton Estate in DLF 5 agreed to allow visitors, but from Monday onwards and on a regulatory basis. They both cited the need to prepare their staff to deal with the sudden influx of visitors for the delay.While Arati Pandya, joint secretary of Princeton Estate Condominium Association, said that the association would meet on Sunday to decide upon the best way forward to allow entry of visitors on a regulatory basis, Dipan Bhattacharyya, president of Harmony RWA, said that a maximum of four family members per house would be allowed to visit in a day, while non-family members would be permitted from June 1. “Apart from the fact that the district administration has given these directions, we also understand that our residents are eager to meet their family and friends during this difficult period. Hence, we have started taking steps to allow visitors inside our premises once again. However, we will be regulating their entry for the time being as it gives our staff time to get used to managing visitors keeping in mind social distancing norms,” said Bhattacharyya.Meanwhile, the RWAs of Belvedere Towers in Cyber City and Fresco in Sector 49 have started allowing visitors, provided they are wearing masks, have downloaded Aarogya Setu application, and their body temperatures are within the acceptable limit when checked by thermal scanners. “We have already implemented the administration’s direction from today (Friday) and informed residents that guests will now be permitted into the condominium. However, we have also informed them that large gatherings and parties cannot be held for the time being as this increases the chances of people catching infections,” said Nilesh Tandon, RWA president of Fresco Apartments. Vinod Giri, president of Belvedere Towers RWA, said that they will also be asking visitors for their address or the place they are coming from to ensure they are not from any containment zone in the city. In DLF phases 1 and 2, the RWA said that they are issuing an advisory to residents to only call visitors on an emergency basis, and they will also be submitting a representation to the district administration on this matter. “We are trying our best to ensure that residents only call visitors if there is a requirement or an emergency, and not for social gathering. While we are complying with the administration’s order and not stopping any visitor from entering the colonies, we are also trying to sensitise residents about the repercussions of calling visitors as more human interaction increases the chances of contracting Covid-19,” said Dhruv Bansal, spokesperson of DLF Qutub Enclave RWA. Bansal said that the RWA will also submit a letter to the district administration with their view of limiting entry of visitors into residential areas across the city and not allowing it on a full-scale.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ggm-rwas-take-steps-to-allow-entry-of-visitors-to-societies/story-aXRJC31QRj7GvypRZ2PDaJ.html
22-05-2020||City||Gzb: Private lab’s licence suspended for failing to inform district admin about Covid-19 patient||Ghaziabad: The licence of a private laboratory, which allegedly failed to inform the district surveillance officer about the status of a Covid-19 positive patient, has been suspended, health department officials said on Friday. “According to norms, the private lab was supposed to send a report to the Indian Council of Medical Research and also the district surveillance officer so that contact tracing of the Covid-19 positive patient could be initiated. However, it has been over 10 days since we received no report of the patient who works at an industrial unit in Sahibabad. So, a show cause notice has been sent to the lab and legal action will also be taken against the patient for hiding his health condition,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer (CMO).Gupta said that after the ‘missing’ patient, who was found positive for Sars-CoV-2 on May 7, came to light, the matter was referred to the police.“The police took up surveillance and the patient was traced in his house. He was admitted to the ESI Hospital in Sahibabad on Thursday. Our teams are now trying to trace his contacts and also areas where the patient might have visited ever since he was tested positive,” the CMO added.In another case, the officials said that a 20-year-old mentally challenged woman who was supposed to be admitted to women’s shelter home was inadvertently taken to a quarantine facility and admitted there.“The woman was brought by an ambulance and lodged at the quarantine facility at Dasna. She has been there for about 20-22 days, but not able to tell the whereabouts of her family. We have now contacted the district social welfare department so that she can be sent to the shelter home. Also, some mandatory tests have to be taken up before she can be moved to the shelter home,” Gupta said.Vikas Chandra, district probation officer whom the matter has been referred to by the health department, said that he has contacted a shelter home in Noida.“The shelter home is for women who are mentally retarded. Before the woman is transferred to the shelter home, she needs to undergo four tests – HIV, pregnancy, tuberculosis and Covid-19. Once these tests turn negative, the woman will be taken there on orders issued by a magistrate. We are coordinating with Noida officials in this regard,” Chandra said.On Friday, the Ghaziabad reported six new Covid-19 cases, taking the tally of positive patients to 208 in the district.“We now have 208 positive cases, of which 168 have been discharged so far. Overall, we have 38 active cases. Of the six cases on Friday, one each is from Khoda, Indirapuram, Sanjay Nagar, Muradnagar, Bhopra and from a locality near NH-9 (near ABES IT College),” CMO Gupta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gzb-private-lab-s-licence-suspended-for-failing-to-inform-district-admin-about-covid-19-patient/story-axs4iNhNUY0e271uKtnjON.html
22-05-2020||City||District courts start hearing cases virtually||The Gautam Budh Nagar district courts have started hearing cases virtually. On Friday, only bail applications were heard and the next date of hearing is scheduled from Tuesday.“As per high court guidelines, district courts have started operations from Friday. As a routine, the court campus will be daily sanitised. Thermal scanning of all visitors will be done. Next court proceedings will be from Tuesday. The district courts today operated with less than 10% staff as Noida is still a Red zone,” Minakshi Sinha, secretary, District Legal Services Authority, said.District court bar Association president Sanjeev Verma said, “Four judges conducted proceedings online. Judges sat inside their chambers with laptops and desktops. A special area has been earmarked for advocates. Only four advocates are allowed at a time. They are provided laptops for video conferencing. Today, around 26 bail applications were taken up by the four courts.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/district-courts-start-hearing-cases-virtually/story-q3BRj6NWDEt8JPbVw1WeeM.html
22-05-2020||Noida||Man held for cyberstalking TV show host||A 40-year-old man was arrested on Thursday for allegedly cyberstalking a Noida-based woman host with a private TV channel and sending her obscene messages and photos.The Surajpur police identified the suspect as one Noyin Gideon, a Kasganj resident, whom they arrested from his home on Thursday.“On May 18, a Noida-based TV celebrity had filed a complaint alleging that a man was constantly sending photos of his private parts and obscene messages to her phone number and email address, which are in the public domain and are managed by her team. Based on this information, the police registered a case against the suspect at the Surajpur police station,” the deputy commissioner of police, women safety, Vrinda Shukla, said.The woman works with an all-women team and because of the incident, she said she felt mentally harassed.“Within a day and a half, the Noida police zeroed in on the location of the suspect and arrested him. We produced him before a magistrate who sent him to jail,” the DCP said.The police said that Gideon is unmarried and unemployed and lives only with his working mother.The woman is a resident of an area under the jurisdiction of the Surajpur police.The police booked Gideon was under sections 420 (cheating), 354 (Assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) and 509 (Word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) of the Indian Penal Code along with relevant sections of the IT Act.The police said that during questioning, Gideon confessed to making fake IDs on social media and sending obscene messages and photos to other women too. They said a probe is underway to determine other cases in which he may have been involved.The police have seized the SIM card and tablet he used.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/man-held-for-cyberstalking-tv-show-host/story-MaKa55RsS6YTBxjUeMYEhN.html
22-05-2020||City||Four men assault security guard over closed gates in Sector 51||Noida: A security guard employed by the Sector 51 residents’ welfare association (RWA) was allegedly assaulted by four unidentified people from Hoshiyarpur village on late Thursday night. According to the residents, the incident occurred around 11.30pm when the guard, Ratneshwar, was on duty at gate number 1 of the sector. A case has been registered at the Sector 49 police station.“He called us immediately after the incident and said that four people assaulted and threatened to kill him. The four came on two motorcycles from inside the sector and were going towards Sector 52 metro station. Near the gate, one of them disembarked from the bike and started abusing and assaulting the guard,” said Sanjeev Kumar, president of Sector 51 RWA who is also the complainant in the case.He said that one of them even threatened to shoot the guard if they find any of the sector gates closed from now on.“The guard was taken for medical treatment. He was on night duty with another guard. He said that the assailants had come to the gate earlier also and tried to get into the sector through closed gates. But they were asked by the guards to leave,” said Kumar.The RWA president further said that despite the restrictions on movement of people from 7pm to 7am, villagers are defying the lockdown guidelines constantly.“Strict action must be taken against those responsible for assaulting the guard. The entire incident has been captured in the CCTV cameras. Now, we want an increased police presence along with patrolling inside the sector. At least two of the attackers have been seen in the sector for morning walks and our staff recognize them,” said Kumar.The police said that they are trying to identify the suspects who assaulted the guard.“A case has been registered against the suspects under sections 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. They will be nabbed soon,” said Dharmendra Kumar Sharma, station house officer, Sector 49 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-men-assault-security-guard-over-closed-gates-in-sector-51/story-c2WnzD37soe6WuQ03jbiiM.html
22-05-2020||Noida||Engineer in debt ends life||A 35-year-old engineer employed with a private company allegedly took his own life at home in a high-rise in Sector 75 on Friday afternoon. The police did not recover a suicide note from the spot but they suspect financial troubles to be the reason.His neighbours reported the incident to the police around noon when they heard his wife shout for help.“By the time we reached, somebody had already broken down the door and brought down the body. The wife was hysterical. Their four-year-old son was in another room,” a neighbour of the family said.“We rushed a team to the spot and sent the body for an autopsy. According to the wife, he was almost ₹50 lakh in debt from various loans and bills and had been troubled about it for a while,” Dharmendra Kumar Sharma, station house officer, Sector 49 police station, said.The police also said that the man had lost a similar amount of money in the share market earlier this year, which added to the family’s financial woes. To pay off the loans, the man had borrowed money and was under pressure from money lenders and investors to pay it back, police said.“Both the husband and wife work as software engineers and have been working from home during the lockdown. They slept early in the morning after finishing their work and woke up around 10.30am. After a while, the wife went into the kitchen to cook when she heard the thud of a table falling and saw her husband hanging from a fan, after which she called for help,” the SHO said.The family has denied any recent arguments and financial problems seem to be the reason behind the death of the man, the police said. The body will be handed over to the family following the autopsy. Gautam Budh Nagar does not have a dedicated helpline to deal with such situations. A few major suicide prevention helpline numbers in India are +914066202000 of ‘Roshni’ (Hyderabad-based) and +914424640050 of Sneha India Foundation (Delhi-based).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/engineer-in-debt-ends-life/story-4ckIr94okHpwJyqQnRThvO.html
22-05-2020||City||Day 2: Most shops in Noida markets wear deserted look||Noida: Even as the city markets have reopened after a gap of almost two months, most shops are largely wearing a deserted look, with only the electronics stores emerging as an exception.On Friday, the second day of market reopening based on odd-even pattern, a number of shops, including the garment shops, at the city’s major marketplaces -- Atta market, Sector 18 and Sector 16 auto market -- wore a deserted look.While the traders are prepared for the slow recovery of the market, they also give restrictive timings for opening the shops and sealed state borders as one of the major reasons for low customer turnout.“A number of shop owners, staff and customers come to this area from Delhi. For an instance, the customers who live in Mayur Vihar and neighbouring areas prefer buying from Sector 18 rather than going to Delhi markets. Also, half of Noida is locked down and the timings are restrictive. So, there are a number of reasons for the low turnout,” said Sushil Kumar Jain, president, Sector 18 market association.Stating that full recovery may take around a year, Jain believes that the market will start recovering from the first week of June. “There are several issues, but we hope that the situation will improve within 10 to 15 days. Every businessman has suffered during the pandemic. However, we are thankful that the markets are now allowed to be open,” Jain added.Some traders, however, also claimed that their business never halted as they kept getting demands from several old customers and they had to operate through godowns. Such traders further said that with market properly opening they can resume the business without any issues.“The business in not so bad and we hope for a speedy recovery. A number of customers have been coming in to buy air conditioners, coolers, refrigerators, etc. Even during the lockdown, several customers had approached us for buying goods like AC and other electronics items and we had to deliver those through godowns. However, that was risky. Now, since the markets are officially open, the risk factor has gone,” said an electronics shop owner at Sector 18 market, who did not want to be named.As traders have to shut their shops by 7pm – which happens to be the time after which business starts to pick up during the summer season, shopkeepers believe the restriction on timings is another reason for low footfall.“Customers have started coming in for buying goods. We hope that business would recover soon. It would obviously take some time, as the odd-even is a bit confusing. The customers don’t know if the shop of the goods they are going to buy would be open or not in the first place,” said Gopal Maheshwari, another electronics shop owner, who had a good number of customers enquiring about different summer products.While pharmacy shops were anyways allowed to be open, those in Sector 18 market said that since Thursday the footfall has increased.“We specialise in health products. Though we were open earlier, the footfall was negligible because our shop happens to be in Sector 18. From yesterday, however, customers have started to visit the market,” said Ravi, who runs a shop selling health supplement products at the Sector 18 market.Ranbir Tanwar, a garment shop owner at Atta, hopes that things will recover soon.“Right now there are a very few customers in the market because shops won’t open in the evening. And chances of customers taking a stroll through the market in such warm weather in the afternoon are negligible. Have you ever seen Atta market so deserted? But this is all temporary, and things will soon recover,” said Tanwar.The Sector 16 auto market wore deserted look as well with only a handful of shops repairing and servicing cars while most of the market remained closed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/day-2-most-shops-in-noida-markets-wear-deserted-look/story-ToKmt2OOnU3sfTkbUpmQ6K.html
22-05-2020||City||Ghaziabad markets to alternately open through the week, says district administration||Five days after the Union home ministry released guidelines for lockdown 4.0, the Ghaziabad administration on Friday came up with rules for reopening 34 markets in the district on alternate days.A majority of markets, according to the directions issued, will open for three days a week till May 31, when lockdown 4.0 comes to end.In his directions issued on Friday, district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey, has stated that certain markets will open on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays while others will function on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays.“We have also given two working days to shop owners for taking up cleaning, sanitization and for making proper arrangement before opening of shops. During this period, they will have to ensure that all stale material is moved out as the shops have been closed for about two months now. Sunday will be an off day and no markets will open then. The corporation will also ensure that the markets are properly cleaned and sanitized once the garbage is removed,” Pandey said.As a pre-condition, the cleaning and sanitization by shop owners will be done only on days specified for them by the administration. If the cleaning is done on non-specified days, it will be termed as violation of the order, officials said.The major markets of Ghaziabad — Indirapuram, Vaishali, Sahibabad, Bjaria, Gandhi Nagar, Nehru Nagar, Mohan Nagar, Shastri Nagar and Turab Nagar, among others — will open on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays.The market which will open on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays will be ones in Vasundhara, Kaushambi, Raj Nagar District Centre, Kavi Nagar, Rajendra Nagar, Shyam Park, Raj Nagar Extension, Navyug Market, Ambedkar Road and those in Delta Colonies of Ramprastha, Brij Vihar, Surya Nagar and Chander Nagar.The officials added that vegetable shops, grocery shops, liquor shops and standalone shops will continue to open as per earlier specified timings. The directions issued will not be applicable in hotspots and containment zones, where only supply of essentials will be allowed.“The shop owners will operate with 50% staff and will make arrangement for sanitizer for customers . Any customer not wearing mask or covering their face will not be catered to. The shop owners will also ensure that a separation of at least 6 feet is maintained between consumers to ensure social distancing,” the district magistrate added.Traders’ association members, however, said that they held a meeting with administrative officials on Friday evening and raised some issues.“We spoke to the officials about sweet shops and other shops selling items of daily consumption. We have requested them to allow such shops to open on daily basis otherwise the material will become stale and unusable. Likewise, we also sought directions regarding building material shops. The officials told that we should open markets and necessary changes will be taken up at a later stage after another round of meeting,” said Pradeep Gupta, convener of Vyapari Ekta Samiti – Indirapuram.“We don’t find much relief in the order as the shops will effectively open from Monday and two working days will be devoted to cleaning and sanitization. We will lose customers on account of Eid festival which is on May 25. There has been a delay on part of officials to release the order for reopening the markets. This should have ideally been done on May 18 or 19 after the lockdown 4.0 guidelines were issued,” said Rajneesh Bansal, chairman of Turab Nagar Vyapar Mandal.The administration officials said that the movement of commuters between Ghaziabad and Delhi and between Ghaziabad and Noida will continue.“There is no change in the order for commuters who are travelling to Delhi or Noida,” said Santosh Kumar Vaishya, additional district magistrate.The administrative officials also said that there is no likelihood of any order as regards to the movement of domestic helps, plumbers, mechanics and technicians,in highrises. Different RWAs have raised the issue and had been requesting the administration for give directions about entry of such persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-markets-to-alternately-open-through-the-week-says-district-administration/story-53WhVTiGCKXj2xFGApRYdL.html
22-05-2020||Noida||Five new Covid cases reported from GB Nagar||With five new coronavirus cases, including an employee of Zee Media group, reported in the district on Friday , the total number of cases in Gautam Budh Nagar reached 307. A 23-year-old man, who works for the Zee Media Group in their Sector 16A office, and lives in Gaur City 2, Greater Noida tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Friday. According to the health officials, a 39-year-old employee of the Zee Media group was found positive for Covid-19 on May 15. The person was a resident of the Laxmi Nagar in Delhi. After he was found positive for the infection, samples of 51 other employees of the company were tested at the Max Lab in Delhi, they said.On May 18, as many as 28 more employees of the company were found positive for the deadly infection. Out of 28 employees, 15 are residents of Gautam Budh Nagar, while 13 live in Delhi, Ghaziabad, and Faridabad. Health officials from Gautam Budh Nagar have informed the concerned administration of Delhi, Ghaziabad, and Faridabad about the employees living in their jurisdiction. Till now, 32 employees of the organisation have been found positive for Covid-19.“Our office, newsroom, and studios have been sealed for sanitization. The Zee News team has been shifted to an alternative facility for the time being. Meanwhile, testing of other employees will continue,” a statement confirming the Covid-19 cases released by the group earlier this week said.Samples of a total of 70 Zee Media employees have been sent for tests so far, said a senior district administration official who did not wish to be named. Nearly 48 persons are under home quarantine, and over 300 people linked to the group have been screened for Covid-19 symptoms, he added. “ A team of health officials has been visiting the Zee office in Sector 16A for the last three days to ensure the sanitisation of the premises,” he saidMeanwhile, a 41-year-old father and his 21-year-old daughter from Gijhod area in Sector 53 were also found positive for the disease. A 23-year-old man and a 36-year-old man from Sector 4, Greater Noida also tested positive for coronavirus. The source of infection in all four cases is still not known.Health department officials said on Friday they received 62 test reports from the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS), in Greater Noida, and 10 test reports from the National Institute of Biologicals (NIB). One reported from NIB had come positive, while all others were negative for Covid-19, a senior health official, not authorised to speak to the media, said. Patients from Gijhod (Sector 53 in Noida), Gaur City 2, Sector 4 in Greater Noida, who tested positive on Friday, had got themselves tested at a private lab in Noida, he added. Currently, there are 88 active Covid-19 patients in the district. As many as 214 positive patients have been discharged so far. The 32-year-old woman district sports officer who had tested positive for Covid-19 nearly ten days ago was discharged on Friday. The DSO was admitted at GIMS on May 10. Five persons from the district have died of infectious disease.There are 63 containment zones in the district including 37 areas listed under category 1 and 26 areas under category 2. As per the orders of the state government on May 18, areas within the 250-metre radius of a category 1 containment zone (where one person reports Covid-19 positive) in the urban areas will be sealed, and areas within a 500-metre radius will be sealed in category 2 containment zones (where more than one person is positive).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/five-new-covid-cases-reported-from-gb-nagar/story-4qFTQEa12JWaWdlX0WsWSK.html
22-05-2020||Noida||Covid suspect taken away in ambulance goes missing, quarantine centre notices only after three weeks||A 21-year-old man, who is suspected to have coronavirus disease (Covid-19) went missing while he was on way to Sharda Hospital from Galgotias quarantine centre in Greater Noida on April 23, but the officials realised the fact only after three weeks.The man, who hails from Jharkhand, worked at a construction site near the Delta 1 Metro station in Greater Noida. He and Rajkumar, a colleague of his, were kept under institutional quarantine at the Galgotias on April 19 after they gave their samples for a Covid-19 test at the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida. The person was admitted to GIMS on April 19 for a few hours and was later that day sent to Galgotias quarantine facility.On April 23, the suspect coughed up blood after which he was sent to the Sharda Hospital in an ambulance and that was the last the quarantine centre people heard of him. Between May 11 and 19, the family members and his employers got in touch with the Galgotia University quarantine in-charge Dr Anil Gupta enquiring about the man’s whereabouts. After Gupta received multiple calls, he decided to check with the Sharda Hospital authorities to find out when the man had been discharged.Gupta was informed that no such patient was admitted on April 23 after which he went and checked all hospital entries and the CCTV footage from the premises. “I went through all the patient details and the CCTV footage of Sharda Hospital, but the man never reached there,” Gupta said.“I then went to GIMS to find out if by mistake the man was taken there by the ambulance, but there was no record of him there as well. When I asked GIMS for his test reports, the staff there said there said the results are yet to come,” Gupta said.Gupta also checked the records of the district hospital in Sector 30 but nothing could be found there. He then went through all the postmortem reports done in the district over the last three weeks.“I found out that there were four autopsies of unknown persons, of which two were above the age of 50, so they were ruled out. The remaining two bodies were found in the jurisdiction of Dankaur police station and Sector 58 police station. I asked the police to send me the panchnama (case) pictures. The pictures didn’t match with the suspect,” Gupta said.Gupta then visited the site manager and the man’s colleague Rajkumar who was discharged on April 26 after his reports came negative for Covid-19.“Rajkumar confirmed that the person was sent to Sharda Hospital in an ambulance on April 23. He had left from our premises and nobody from the hospital ever contacted us again until his colleagues and relatives got in touch with me,” Gupta said.A missing person report was registered with the Dankaur police on Thursday on Gupta’s complaint. “We have spoken with Rajkumar and his family members. Investigation has started. We are yet to find the ambulance which took him from the quarantine facility. Authorities have no record of the ambulance that ferried the man,” Akhilesh Pradhan, station house officer, Dankaur, said.“There are 34 ambulances in the district which are involved in the Covid-19 fight. Each ambulance makes around 50 rounds a day. At times, there is more than one patient in the vehicle and the ID of only one patient is taken to register the entry. We have checked all the details but there was no ID with the name of the missing man,” Gupta said.The Sharda Hospital authorities have provided all documents and CCTV footage to the police. “The man never reached our hospital. There is no mention of any such man in our records. We have provided our CCTV footage, but there is nothing there,” Dr Ajit Kumar, joint registrar and media spokesperson, Sharda University, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/covid-suspect-taken-away-in-ambulance-goes-missing-quarantine-centre-notices-only-after-three-weeks/story-OVpnFQIVevYVdDdDFKkLVP.html
22-05-2020||City||With 197 new cases, total tally in Thane is 1,757||In the highest 24-hour jump in the number of cases in Thane, 197 new cases were reported on Friday. Two Covid patients died.The total positive cases in the city are 1,757. Out of the 197 new cases, 70 are from Lokmanyanagar Sawarkarnagar ward itself followed by 22 cases in Wagale Estate, Kalwa and Mumbra wards each.Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of Thane Municipal Corporation, said, “Till now, 500 cases are from Lokmanyanagar Sawarkarnagar ward alone. On Friday, civic commissioner gave orders to focus on curbing cases in the ward.”Civic commissioner Vijay Singhal gave directives to screen the people in the slum and those with symptoms should be quarantined and tested. Malvi said, “He has also asked to carry out contact tracing of people around Covid patients. Decisions on markets and shops will also be taken in the next few days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-197-new-cases-total-tally-in-thane-is-1-757/story-uHy4MocnDo81TqJ5tR7LLJ.html
22-05-2020||Noida||Trade union workers protest against changes in labour laws, demand salary for lockdown period||Trade union workers on Friday protested against changes made to the labour law and demanded full salaries for the lockdown period. Although the union leaders were arrested by the police, workers held protests in different areas of the district on Friday.“The CITU (Centre of Indian Trade Unions) president Gangeshwar Dutt Sharma was arrested on Thursday midnight. On Friday, on the All India Trade Union’s call, several workers held protests in their localities while maintaining social distancing. We have protested the changes in labour laws and has demanded salary for our workers for the lockdown period,” Ram Sagar, general secretary, CITU, a left-leaning traders’ body, said.“Earlier, we had sent letter to the deputy labour commissioner and higher authorities highlighting the non-payment of salaries to workers during the lockdown period. Several workers have complained that they were not given salaries for 25 days of March for which they had worked prior to the imposition of the nationwide lockdown on March 25,” Sagar said.“During the initial phases of the lockdown, though the permitted strength of workers was one-third the total staff strength of a unit, from May 3, all units have been running at full staff strength. But workers were disgruntled when they got no salary credited to their accounts for the month of April,” he said.Several workers residing in Delhi, Ghaziabad, Hapur and other areas could not come for work as they were not allowed to cross the borders and enter Noida, despite having a permission letter from the district magistrate for their unit to function and management’s letter issuing passes to such workers. Salaries of these workers too were deducted for a number of days that they could not come to work, the union leader said. Some workers were allowed to adjust these days against permitted leaves.“Non-essential product industries were not allowed to operate during lockdown. But as per guidelines, workers in these units too were to be given salary for the lockdown period, but a majority of such industries have not paid their workers,” Sagar claimed.Deputy Labour Commissioner PK Singh said, “We are receiving more than 200 complaints every day regarding non-payment of salaries on the online grievance cell. Once lockdown is removed and the situation improves, there will be a flood of such complaints. We have sought directions from the government on such cases. Legal action against the defaulting companies will be taken as per the law for violating state government guidelines.”There are at least 12,000 factories in Noida, 8,000 units in Greater Noida and at least 3,000 in areas under the UP State Industrial Development Corporation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/trade-union-workers-protest-against-changes-in-labour-laws-demand-salary-for-lockdown-period/story-IeBti7YJVixpsM4mp0RaTL.html
22-05-2020||City||Covid-19 impact: Poor campus placement at GB University||GREATER NOIDA: The Covid-19 outbreak in the country has jeopardised the job prospects of many students of Gautam Buddha University (GBU). The recent graduates looking for their first job feel marooned due to the dismal campus placements at the varsity’s management and engineering departments this year.Only 30% students could get job offers from various companies, which mostly conducted interviews before the nationwide lockdown was announced. According to GBU officials, of 400 management and engineering graduates, only around 120 of them could manage to get job offers through campus placement this year. During the lockdown period (from March 25 to May 20), only four students could manage to get job offers through online interviews, said the officials. Restriction on movements and ban on events badly affected the campus placement schedule at GBU.“The placement at Gautam Buddha University’s management and engineering departments would have been much better this year if Covid-19 pandemic had not impacted the season so badly. We somehow managed to invite six private firms to conduct the online interviews during the lockdown period. In March last year, the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) had set up a mega job fair at campus and students got jobs. And it was scheduled in March-end this year too. But it could not happen due to the lockdown,” said Abhinav Sharma, an officer at corporate relation cell of GBU. Last year, the university had witnessed 75% campus placement for management and engineering students, as companies such as Tata Consultancy Services (TCS), Paytm, Oyo Rooms, S&P Global, Curefit India, HCL, Honda, Oppo and NTT Data offered jobs to students. In 2018, the campus placement was 70%. Students who took education loan for their study are troubled a lot with no offer at hand.“I took an education loan of Rs 4.5 lakh. So not getting a job at campus is more troublesome to students like me. I hope online job events may help in future. The Covid-19 pandemic has badly affected the job market, as many companies are not so eagerly hiring,” said Praduman Kumar Siddharth, a native of Prayagraj who just completed his MBA. However, the placement cell at GBU is not disappointed and trying hard to help the students get jobs.“The university, in association with FICCI, now plans to conduct an online internship job fair on May 30. As per the curricula, most university students are required to generate grades via interning in the industry and corporate houses during the summer break. Because of restricted movements and reduced activities, such an online internship fair can prove to be vital for the students for getting a job,” said Sharma. At least 25 companies will take part in the internship fair to be held through the website www.gbujobs.com, said the GBU officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-impact-poor-campus-placement-at-gb-university/story-G1RFHOIbH4roSY5vWOVoiI.html
22-05-2020||City||Industry centre encourages PPE manufacturers to form clusters||With an aim to provide support and encourage personal protection equipment (PPE) manufacturers, a meeting for the identification of potential cluster, that is, personal protection equipment manufacturers’ cluster under micro and small enterprises’ (MSE’d) cluster development programme (CDP) was held under the chairmanship of general manager (GM), district industries centre (DIC), Ludhiana, Mahesh Khanna, at his office on Friday. The meeting was also attended by deputy director R K Parmar, cluster in-charge Deepak Chechi and assistant director, MSME development institute.The industrialists attending the meeting shared their experiences as to how they became manufacturers of PPE items such as PPE kits, masks, gloves and others. A PowerPoint presentation was also shown to participants by SB Singh of M/s Taran Industries.RK Parmar and Deepak Chechi guided the stakeholders about the procedure for the selection of clusters and encouraged them to form special purpose vehicle by the mode of forming a company that should be registered under Section 8 of the Company Act 2016. They also asked the industrialists to submit a potential cluster performa as early as possible on the web portal of DC, MSME (GoI), so that their proposal may attain legal sanctity from the competent authority by adopting due process. The duo also motivated the stakeholders to file concept note on the same portal.FOCUS ON BUILDING CAPACITY OF MSEsMinistry of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME), government of India (GoI), has adopted the cluster development approach as a key strategy for enhancing the productivity and competitiveness as well as capacity building of the micro and small enterprises (MSEs) and their collectives in the country. A cluster is a group of enterprises located within an identifiable and as far as practicable, contiguous area or a value chain that goes beyond a geographical area and producing same/similar products/complementary products/services that can be linked together by common physical infrastructure facilities that help address their common challenges.Under this program a grant is also provided by GoI for establishing a common facility centre for the industry concerned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/industry-centre-encourages-ppe-manufacturers-to-form-clusters/story-ytCq3prZUs76Ryuwy5HxIL.html
22-05-2020||Lucknow||Heat wave condition likely in UP for next 48 hours||Days are getting hotter in several cities of the state with maximum temperature hovering around 40 degree Celsius and above even as the met department has issued warning of heat wave conditions in the next 48 hours. Due to soaring temperature, commuters who had to step out from home for work are also facing inconvenience.Heat wave conditions are very likely to prevail at isolated places across the state, weatherman said. The day temperature remained above normal in many cities of the state.At 46.1 degree Celsius, Jhansi was hottest in the state. It was 3.1 degrees Celsius above normal. Taj city Agra was also hot at 45.4 degrees Celsius while Prayagraj recorded 45 degree Celsius, Kanpur 44.5 degree Celsius, Aligarh and Banda recorded 44 degree Celsius each, Orai 43.5 degree Celsius, Etawah and Hamirpur 43.2 degree Celsius each, Varanasi 42.5 degree Celsius and Meerut 42.4 degrees Celsius.The maximum temperature in Lucknow was recorded at 41.6°C that was 1.6 degree Celsius above normal. The night temperature was 24 degree Celsius.Director of Lucknow meteorological centre, JP Gupta said from here on, day temperature would increase gradually in the next five days and thereafter it might drop a little with the change of wind pattern. There was no possibility of thunderstorm either in days to come, he added. Meanwhile, commuters faced a lot of inconvenience due to rise in day temperature in Lucknow. “I had to go out in a two wheeler to buy medicines which was not easily available. In no time, I felt like fainting because I didn’t carry my water bottle. I bought a small bottle of cold drink but overall it was very hot today. I toured Husaingan, passed through Aminabad, Qaiserbag, Chowk and Polytechnic and Gomti nagar. I was completely exhausted after I returned to my home,” said Neeraj Pandey, who works in a private company.A resident of South City, Yogya Pratap Singh, “I didn’t put on the AC of my car because I was driving through containment zones and so I thought better to avoid it. While stepping at a bakery shop in Gomti Nagar, I was thermoscanned and there my temperature was measured as 40. For about four hours, I was out, didn’t carry water in this searing weather.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/heat-wave-condition-likely-in-up-for-next-48-hours/story-QQyhPMDX9KjMT6lV7gplPL.html
22-05-2020||Chandigarh||Apply for appointments at Chandigarh passport office from May 26||Appointments for passport-related services in Chandigarh will restart on May 26.Applicants need to wear face masks and have a sanitiser handy before entering the Passport Seva Kendra (PSK) in Industrial Area or Passport Office in Sector 34A. In line with the MHA order, applicants below 10 years and above 65 years, and those in the advanced stage of pregnancy will not be given entry irrespective of having an appointment. Applicants need to reach the centres only 30 minutes before appointment and not before that. Gathering inside or nearby the centres is prohibited. Violators will face action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/apply-for-appointments-at-chandigarh-passport-office-from-may-26/story-rQGJzwvnYdabKDtG7ZzItO.html
22-05-2020||Patna||11th Covid death in Bihar, cases up to 2,105||Bihar reported its eleventh death Friday to coronavirus when a 22-year-old migrant worker from Khagaria died within a few hours after his arrival from Noida, as 118 new cases were reported during the day, pushing the state tally to 2105.“The man was unwell when he came to Bihar by train and died within a few hours after arrival. His sample was taken after death that tested positive for coronavirus,” said Bihar’s health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh during a media briefing on Friday.He said the man was taken out from a Shramik Special train by personnel waiting at the station and immediately rushed in an ambulance to a hospital, where he died.Singh, however, did not mention any detail, like the date of arrival of the deceased or when his sample had tested positive for the virus.Unlike earlier, the government had not shared any detail about the death of a 55-year-old migrant from Delhi, who died in Begusarai a few days back. Thursday’s bulletin on coronavirus, issued by the state health department, only mentioned the casualty figure going up by one, with no elaboration of it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/11th-covid-death-in-bihar-cases-up-to-2-105/story-zY8zHqH4Js6hxD7nt7OAlO.html
22-05-2020||Delhi||DFS procures its first drone with thermal cam to track people trapped in high-rises||This summer, before the number of fire incidents escalates, the Delhi Fire Service (DFS) has started training its men to handle its first drone to monitor fire better, especially in the Capital’s high-rises. Senior officers said the drone has a thermal imaging camera to track people trapped inside a burning building and can help investigators generate a 3D image of the building to recreate the incident.Between April 2019 and March 2020, as many as 282 people were killed in 27,859 incidents of fire reported in Delhi. In 2018-2019, 297 people lost their lives in 31,264 fire incidents.Every year, the months of May, June and July see the maximum fire incidents across the city. Atul Garg, director, DFS, said that keeping in mind the challenges they had to face, especially while dealing with a fire in high-rise buildings, they purchased their first drone in March this year.“We were operating with limited staff because of the lockdown; so we couldn’t train our men on how to use the drone effectively. We have now started the training and before the number of fire incidents increases this summer, like every year, we expect some of our men to be experts in handling the drone to support our firefighters,” he said.The drone that the DFS has procured can fly as high as a 60-storey building and can cover an area as wide as four kilometres at one go. It will be very helpful in cases of fires breaking out in high-rises as it will give the firefighters an aerial view of the situation and they can identify its source to effectively contain the blaze, Garg said.He added that the drone is fixed with a thermal imaging camera, which can scan a burning building and help the firefighters identify where people are trapped. “With this, even those who are unconscious due to smoke inhalation can be easily tracked and pulled out. We are sure it will increase our effectiveness in saving lives... if only we had this technology during the Anaj Mandi fire and Arpit Palace fire,” Garg said.The director added that several times when lives are lost in fire incidents, Delhi Police is handed over the probe. “In most cases that require investigation, we need to recreate the scene and develop a three-dimensional image of the building. The drone will capture videos and images of a building from all sides and will help us prepare a 3D model, which will be effective during the police probe,” he said.Garg said that for now, they have purchased only one drone but the DFS plans to buy more soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/dfs-procures-its-first-drone-with-thermal-cam-to-track-people-trapped-in-high-rises/story-UkDWgME5fTddEMQTuMOl6H.html
22-05-2020||City||At least 200 jhuggis gutted, hundreds left homeless in Kirti Nagar fire||New Delhi: At least 200 shanties were gutted after a fire broke out in the Chuna Bhatti slum cluster in west Delhi’s Kirti Nagar on Thursday night. While no casualties were reported in the incident, hundreds were left homeless, officials of the fire department said.According to the Delhi Fire Services (DFS), they received a call reporting the fire around 11.30pm on Thursday. DFS director Atul Garg said they rushed 10 fire tenders to control the blaze. “Because the fire was spreading fast, we pressed in more tenders. The final count of tenders used touched 30. At least 100 of our firefighters struggled for over four hours to control the fire, which could only be contained by 3.30am. The process of cooling the spot was on till morning,” Garg said.Nearly 200 shanties and slums were destroyed in the fire, as per the fire department’s estimates. We are yet to ascertain the cause behind the blaze, Garg said.The colony is beside the Kirti Nagar railway station, with several industrial units in its vicinity.Gokul Kumar, a resident of the slum cluster said the spark erupted from a nearby factory unit around 11.15pm, and spread to the entire neighbourhood within minutes, leaving residents no time to save their belongings. While some of the residents tried to douse the blaze till the fire tenders arrived, the situation was beyond their control.“We could either save ourselves or our belongings. Many people in this colony are already having a tough time financially because of the pandemic, many have lost their jobs and families are struggling to survive. This fire has just added to our miseries,” Kumar said.Sumukhi Sengupta, who works with the NGO Jagruk, said at least 150 residents of the cluster have lost their homes. Most residents were moved to government shelters on Friday.“We have been helping residents collect whatever is left of their belongings. There is nothing left of some houses,” Sengupta said.Last year in January, a fire in the slum cluster had gutted 100 shanties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/at-least-200-jhuggis-gutted-hundreds-left-homeless-in-kirti-nagar-fire/story-gg8tOpufnWimVQbm3Q8K9J.html
22-05-2020||Delhi||Provide beneficiaries with 1kg pulses in accordance with PM food scheme for 3 months: HC to Delhi govt||The Delhi High Court on Thursday directed the Delhi government to provide the beneficiaries of the PM Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana with 1kg pulses as per the scheme for three months, May 16 onwards, in accordance with a plea contending that the city government was not providing them with the enhanced benefits of this Central government scheme.A bench of justices Manmohan and Sanjeev Narula also asked the Delhi government to ensure that all fair price shops display information regarding the entitlement of food grains in accordance with the provisions of the Targeted Public Distribution System (Control) Order, 2015.The court pronounced its order while hearing a plea by one Ramya Kutty, filed through her advocate Shivam Goel, seeking directions to the city government to ensure the proper distribution of pulses under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package or PM Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana (PM-GKAY) or any other applicable scheme among the residents of Delhi as per their entitlement.On Thursday, Goel told the court that subsequent to the filing of the plea, the Delhi government has started dispersing pulses in accordance with the scheme from May 16. He, however, contended that the distribution of pulses (1kg per family) should have commenced w.e.f. April 1, 2020 in accordance with the aforesaid scheme. He also contended that the fair price shops were not displaying information regarding the entitlement of food grains in accordance with provisions of the Targeted Public Distribution System (Control) Order, 2015.Appearing for the Delhi government, its additional standing counsel Anjum Javed filed a status report stating that the distribution of pulses under PM-GKAY for the month of April, 2020, could not be done due to quality issues with the supply of pulses from NAFED.Now, with the replacement of stock with good quality pulses at all fair price shops concerned, the distribution of pulses for the month of April, 2020 began on May 16. He said that in two days (May 16 and May 17) pulses have already been distributed to 1,71,865 households.“Distribution of Pulses for the months of May and June, 2020 under PM-GKAY will be taken up subsequently after the distribution of pulses for April, 2020. As regards, distribution of Pulses under PM-GKAY, allocation of Pulses for the month of May, 2020 has already been generated and allocation for June, 2020 is being made (sic),” the Delhi government report read.Following this, the court directed that the pulses be given to the beneficiaries of the scheme for three months, according to the March 26 directions of Centre, in which it announced the details of the PM-GKAY scheme and ordered states to implement it.“There was a problem with the quality of pulses which Delhi had earlier received. That had caused some delay. The issue is now resolved. All court directions will be adhered to,” a senior government official confirmed on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/provide-beneficiaries-with-1kg-pulses-in-accordance-with-pm-food-scheme-for-3-months-hc-to-delhi-govt/story-YWBj3fPrR5xKv04z5zOkgP.html
22-05-2020||Patna||Bihar govt seeks time for status report in HC on quarantine centres||The Bihar government Friday failed to submit the status report on quarantine centres before the Patna High Court and sought time to do the same. The court has fixed June 2 as the next date of hearing on the matter.On May 13, the HC had sought the Bihar government’s reply on a public interest petition (PIL) seeking direction to the government for better and hygienic living conditions and food in the quarantine centres, set up to house migrants returning to Bihar in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic, in accordance with the guidelines of the ministry of home affairs (MHA).Advocate General Lalit Kishor, appearing for the government, told the bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice S Kumar that he would himself appear in the case henceforth. “The government needs some more time to prepare the status report,” he added.The petitioner, Rajeev Ranjan of Sonepur in Saran, had drawn the attention of the court towards media reports, viral videos and instances of migrants fleeing from quarantine centres and complaining about lack of facilities.As per the statistics of the disaster management department, there are quarantine camps functional at the block level housing around 7.5 lakh migrants. So far, 638 trains have arrived with nearly seven lakh migrants at different stations in Bihar. The challenge of providing quarantine facilities to all is turning out to be a big challenge for the governmentThe chief minister has said that all those interested in returning to the state will be brought back||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-govt-seeks-time-for-status-report-in-hc-on-quarantine-centres/story-k0tIHEDhkHMg7iBC6hcVNL.html
22-05-2020||Patna||Stay here, work for your state, Nitish tells migrant workers||Chief minister Nitish Kumar Friday sought to allay apprehensions among migrant workers over the loss of livelihood saying “all those willing to stay back will be provided employment as per their skill sets.”The chief minister, who was interacting with the migrants put up at various quarantine centres through video conference for feedback on available facilities, appealed to them to stay in the state and participate in the development of their home state.He also directed officials to prepare job cards for all those who have returned to the state amid the lockdown and want to stay back with a view to providing suitable employment opportunities matching their skill profile. “Immediate efforts must be made to promote and revive labour intensive industries, where a large number of them could be deployed,” he said.Bihar has seen a reverse migration on an unprecedented scale since the lockdown began.‘“There is no scarcity of work here. Deploy your labour and skill sets to participate and contribute in Bihar’s development,” the CM told migrant workers.Talking to Rambali, a migrant worker from Gurugram staying in Bettiah, who is also skilled in the job of manufacturing paver blocks, the chief minister said that paver block industry has a huge potential in the state as it was being used in various development works initiated by the government as part of the jal-jeevan-hariyali drive. “As for women workers, they can be associated with Jeevika for suitable livelihood,” he said.During the video conference, the chief minister interacted with inmates in 20 quarantine centres in 10 districts to enquire about the facilities and have a first-hand view of the arrangements, even as he impressed upon them on the need for spending the mandatory isolation period, with proper social distancing norms, at the quarantine centres, which was in their best interest and also for their immediate family and society at large. “Today, this is the only way to fight the pandemic and contain its spread,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/stay-here-work-for-your-state-nitish-tells-migrant-workers/story-uDm6dXvQ8Om0LZejF1XIMP.html
22-05-2020||Delhi||Palika dispensary sealed after doctor tests positive||The New Delhi district administration on Friday sealed the Palika dispensary located at the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) headquarters building near Connaught Place after a senior doctor working at the facility tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19 ). According to NDMC officials, the 58-year-old woman doctor at the NDMC HQ-Palika dispensary had been exhibiting fever-like symptoms for last two or three days and had taken the Covid-19 test on Thursday. “She tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. She lives in an area under the jurisdiction of NDMC and has been put quarantined at home along with her family members. The dispensary has been sealed for now,” an NDMC official said.Tanvi Garg, district magistrate, New Delhi, said, “As per the protocol, we’re conducting the contact tracing of the patient and have shut the dispensary. The building will be sanitised and reopened next week.”The Palika dispensary has a staff of around 20 people including four doctors — two allopathic, one homoeopathic and one ayurvedic. NDMC officials said that a team of doctors from the civic body is tracing patients who might have visited the dispensary recently and directly contacted the Covid-19 positive doctor with the help of registration data.This is the third case of Covid-19 in NDMC in the last one-and-a-half month. The first Covid-19 case in NDMC was reported in the first week of April when a sanitation employee who worked at Charak Palika Hospital tested positive. The second case was reported in the third week of April when a senior engineer working at NDMC headquarters tested Covid-19 positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/palika-dispensary-sealed-after-doctor-tests-positive/story-qLbLwS8rKoHQYpirqscqJN.html
22-05-2020||Mumbai||HC directs state, BMC to consider a helpline for pregnant women after lockdown||The Bombay high court on Friday directed that the state and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to consider setting up a separate helpline for pregnant women after the lockdown period. The directions were issued after a petitioner brought to the notice of the court that a pregnant woman had to deliver her child at home with the help of a midwife as she was turned away by three hospitals and a maternity home. The BMC had been asked to submit a list of maternity homes and clinics and the number of deliveries done there since the lockdown. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice S S Shinde made the suggestion while hearing a PIL filed by advocate Mohiuddin Vaid. Vaid had referred to a news report wherein an expecting woman was refused admission to J J hospital on April 27, as she did not have a Covid-19 negative report. The petitioner had sought directions to the state and civic bodies to put in place appropriate measures for pregnant women during the pandemic.While the state refuted the news report and said that five pregnant women had been admitted on April 27, the BMC on the May 15 directions of the bench submitted an affidavit enumerating the names and particulars of maternity homes and clinics in the city that were attending to pregnant women. The list contained the names of maternity homes and clinics attending to COVID-19 and non–Covid patients including pregnant women and number of deliveries conducted by medical institutions since the lockdown was enforced.Senior counsel Anil Sakhare, for the BMC, said that the information was available on the dashboard of its website and also submitted that a dedicated Covid helpline number 1916 had been started.When the petitioner demanded that there must be a separate helpline for pregnant women, the BMC submitted that it would not be possible as the 1916 helpline was already being handled by 12 doctors in three shifts.After hearing submissions, the bench accepted the contentions of the BMC and disposed of the PIL noting that in future, the BMC and state government should consider setting up a separate helpline for pregnant women.The affidavit filed by the corporation with regards to the deliveries conducted during the period of lockdown stated, “there have been 3905 deliveries in March, 4169 deliveries in April and about 2412 deliveries till the date of affirmation of the affidavit, of which about 359 patients tested positive for COVID-19. Such COVID-19 positive patients have been treated in special facilities.”In light of the submissions in the affidavit, the court held, “The number of deliveries performed during the past three months provides reason to hold that the contentions urged by Sakhare and Chavan are sound and that there has not been any reported incident of negligence does not call for judicial intervention on this PIL petition.”The court however observed, “ We, therefore, dispose of this PIL petition expressing hope and trust that the State and Corporation shall continue in its efforts to ensure that expecting ladies are well attended to even in these testing times and that maximum care is taken so that not only the mother but the newborn child does not face difficulties till such time normalcy is restored.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-directs-state-bmc-to-consider-a-helpline-for-pregnant-women-after-lockdown/story-i5kgGSHQRqoMKHbRQofGIJ.html
22-05-2020||Chandigarh||Big Bazaar fined ₹12,000 for charging two customers ₹18 for carry bags in Chandigarh||The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum has penalised Big Bazaar for asking a customer to pay ₹18 for a cloth carry bag in two separate cases. The forum has directed the retail chain of hypermarkets to pay ₹10,000 to the consumer legal aid for both cases, and ₹1, 218 to each consumer.In the first case, Bharat Dawar of Sector 34, Chandigarh, filed a case against Future Retail’s Big Bazaar store in Industrial Area here. He alleged that in March 2019, he had bought some articles from the store and at the billing counter, the cashier had asked him to pay ₹18 for a carry bag.He said he resisted buying the bag but in vain. Terming it an unfair trade practice, he moved the consumer court, he added.Big Bazaar in its reply said the amount for cloth bag was “rightly charged” as it was displayed in their store. “The complainant had consented to be given a carry bag for an additional charge.”Denying the allegation, it added, “Through advertisement /posters/notices clearly displayed at prominent locations of the concerned store stating that as a part of its responsible and environmentally conscious business policy, consumer are requested to carry their own bags and that a separate charge was to be charged in case the consumer wished to obtain a new carry bag.”However, the forum observed that if Big Bazaar claims itself to be responsible and environmentally conscious, they should have given the carry bags to the customers free of cost “because in our considered view, the price of the carry bag has generally been included by them in the profit margins of the product(s)”.“By employing unfair trade practice, Big Bazaar is minting lot of money from the gullible customers from all their stores situated across the country. Therefore, the deficiency in service as well as unfair trade practice on their part is proved,” it observed.It directed Big Bazaar to return ₹18, pay ₹100 as compensation for harassment and mental agony and ₹1,100 as litigation cost. Apart from this, Big Bazaar has been asked deposit ₹5,000 in consumer legal aid.In the other case, a Panchkula resident, Sourav Kumar, complained that in March 2019, the store had charged ₹18 from him for a carry bag. A similar order was pronounced by the consumer forum in this case as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/big-bazaar-fined-12-000-for-charging-two-customers-18-for-carry-bags-in-chandigarh/story-xfCC81UXwvpFyytCymL4uO.html
22-05-2020||City||Primary teachers accuse Ludhiana MC of ‘harassing’ them in name of coronavirus-related duties||A total of 40 primary teachers of government schools have accused Zone A office of the municipal corporation (MC) of “harassing” them in the name of coronavirus-related work.The teachers alleged that on Friday, they reached the MC Zone A office near Mata Rani Chowk at 8am and were made to sit in a room for five hours without any work. At 1pm, the authorities handed over a list of migrants to the teachers and asked them to call up the workers and know if they want to go to their home states or not, the primary faculty said.The teachers also said that at 10pm on Thursday, district education officer (elementary) Rajinder Kaur issued them a letter asking them to report for the coronavirus-related work at MC’s Zone A office on Friday.A primary teacher, Ramandeep Singh, said, “I reached the MC office at 8am and was made to sit in a hall till 1pm. Later, the authorities briefed me and other teachers to call up migrants. We have been asked to submit their reply according to the list till 8am on Saturday.” ‘IMPROPER ARRANGEMENTS AT MC OFFICE’ Another primary teacher, Hardev Singh, said, “There were no proper arrangements at the MC office as a group of 30 teachers were accommodated in a room for five hours and the work was assigned to them after that only. The authorities should have called us only after preparing a list of the migrants. Besides, the letter issued by the DEO (elementary) was not signed and no order number was written in it.”MC secretary Neerja Jain said, “We have made best arrangements for the teachers. They were accommodated in a hall maintaining social distancing. Refreshment was also provided to them and after receiving the list of two trains, we briefed them to gather details from the migrants.” Deputy DEO (elementary) Kuldeep Singh also said that the letter was issued to the teachers following the administration officials’ order to the district education officers for deployment of teachers in coronavirus-related works.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/primary-teachers-accuse-ludhiana-mc-of-harassing-them-in-name-of-coronavirus-related-duties/story-8Ynvvi8dwWQxrNd68W5WOM.html
22-05-2020||City||Disinfectant sprayed on migrant workers in Lajpat Nagar, MCD says by mistake||New DelhiScores of migrants, who were waiting in queues outside a school in Lajpat Nagar-3 for their screening before boarding a Shramik Special train, were sprayed with disinfectant by workers of the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) during a sanitisation drive on Friday.The civic body, however, said it happened by “mistake” and said that its official present at the spot had apologised to the public.The incident took place when hundreds of migrant workers, who have registered for the trains, had gathered at Hemu Kalani Senior Secondary School for screening in Lajpat Nagar-3. A video of the incident was circulated on social media. A worker engaged in a sanitation exercise along the road was seen spraying disinfectants on the migrant workers standing in queues.In response, SDMC said it happened mistakenly because the worker could not handle the pressure of the jetting machine.“Since the school is in a residential colony, there was huge demand from residents for disinfecting the compound and the road. But due to the pressure of the jetting machine, the worker could not manage it for some moments. The staff has already been instructed to be more careful and attentive while doing the job in future. The official present at the site apologised to public,” SDMC said in a statement.The Union ministry of health and family welfare had in April issued an advisory against spraying disinfectants on people for Covid-19 management. The ministry had said spraying chemical disinfectants is “physically and psychologically harmful”.The SDMC, however, said disinfectant spraying is being done as per protocol and guidelines. It said the civic body had distributed food and water to migrant workers who had come for screening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/disinfectant-sprayed-on-migrant-workers-in-lajpat-nagar-mcd-says-by-mistake/story-2Rh9zcfQmcKAKrgr3rKBRK.html
22-05-2020||Mumbai||Hospitals charging high fees for Covid treatment face action: State health minister||State health minister Rajesh Tope has warned the private and trust-run hospitals with the action if they refuse to reserve 80% Covid-19 patients at the rates fixed by the state government. Tope said that the notification issued on Thursday was by using five laws that empower the government making the treatment of the patients mandatory at the private hospitals. He said that the decision was taken after they received the complaints about the overcharging and profiteering by these hospitals. He said that nodal officers have been appointed at district and state levels to look into the complaints against the private hospitals not treating the Covid-19 patients. Tope said that the government will issue a notification on Saturday covering the entire state population under its medi-claim policy called Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hospitals-charging-high-fees-for-covid-treatment-face-action-state-health-minister/story-KTxrxctPzyofUdL8YGGdiP.html
22-05-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand Covid-19 tally rises to 153 with seven positive cases||With Covid-19 cases rising in Uttarakhand with the return of migrants, seven new cases were detected in Uttarakhand on Friday, taking the tally of total cases to 153 in the state. All seven who have tested positive are men.Out of the seven new cases, three were reported from Dehradun, two from Haridwar and two from US Nagar district. Of three in Dehradun, one had returned from Delhi while another from Mumbai. The third patient is a Thalassemia patient. In US Nagar, one had returned from Delhi and another from Mumbai. In Haridwar, one is a resident of Luxer area in the district, while another one had returned from Mumbai.So far, 66 migrants returning to the state mostly from Mumbai, Delhi and Gurugram have tested positive.The afternoon bulletin released by the state health department mentioned that five fresh cases has been detected in the state, while the evening bulletin stated that two more positive had been detected in the state, taking the tally to 153 with the recovery of 56 patients including two on Friday.The percentage of the recovery rate of COVID-19 patients has come down to 37.09 percent and the doubling rate has come down to 8 days, according to the state health officials. With these fresh cases, Dehradun has now 53 COVID-19 positive cases, followed by 31 in US Nagar, 28 in Nainital, 12 in Haridwar, 7 from Uttar Kashi, 6 each from Tehri Garhwal and Bageshwar, 4 each from Almora and Pauri Garhwal and one from Chamoli. Apart from this, one person had tested positive at the private testing lab.The state health department officials said that of these 153 cases, 96 are active cases. So far the state health department has sent 18008 samples for testing including 1175 to private labs. The test results of 1966 patients are awaited.On Thursday, Uttarakhand reported the biggest single-day jump with 24 new COVID-19 positive cases in the state. These included a 55-year-old female who is a resident of Bijnor in Uttar Pradesh but had been undergoing treatment at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Rishikesh, since May 11, 20-year-old man who had recently returned from Mumbai, 45-year-old female who had a close contact of an earlier positive case, 34-year-old man from Dehradun, 19-year-old man from Nainital who had recently traveled from Hyderabad and so on.Authorities in Uttarakhand are worried over spike in COVID-19 positive cases with the return of the migrants. According to government officials, over 2.35 lakh registrations for return to Uttarakhand had been made on the state website. Of these, the state government under its evacuation process has so far brought back over 1,29,166 people through trains and buses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-covid-19-tally-rises-to-153-with-seven-positive-cases/story-PQFdlbBCvD3XL29sE8jpMJ.html
22-05-2020||City||Seven cops at control room test positive in past week||New DelhiSeven police personnel posted at the control room of the west district police have tested positive for Covid-19 in the last one week. Police said following the reports, 30 police officers have been quarantined and the control room has been closed for sanitisation. Deepak Purohit, deputy commissioner of police(west), said the seven have been sent to isolation. “This is not one day’s case. Over the past one week, seven staff of the communication branch, posted at the west district control room, tested positive. All are in isolation and families have been informed. Over the weekend, we plan to deep clean their offices work stations and adjoining area,” Purohit said.At least 120 Delhi police personnel of different ranks have tested positive and around 800-1,000 are in self-quarantine. The police personnel have been at the forefront in the fight against Covid-19. Police are managing containment zones, feeding the underprivileged, ensuring social distancing on the roads, apart form their law and order duties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/seven-cops-at-control-room-test-positive-in-past-week/story-mnaJVzOgIYhfRBwo1IFxKO.html
22-05-2020||Mumbai||HC seeks clarity from activist over Animal Welfare Board taking care of pets during lockdown||The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday directed an animal activist to respond to a challenge by the state to the claim made by her that the Animal Welfare Board had recommended allowing pet owners to take their pets out for walks during the lockdown.The state, while agreeing to the board’s recommendation of providing shelters for strays and allowing feeders to feed strays, submitted that the petitioner had construed these directions as permission for allowing pet owners to take their pets out for walks, which was not valid.The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice SS Shinde, while hearing the petition filed by animal activist Vineeta Tandon, was informed through an affidavit by the state that various measures had been put in place to allow veterinary ambulances and private vehicles to ferry animals in need of medical care. The state further said that the requisite instructions had also been issued to local authorities to allow the movement of veterinary ambulances, and to allow authorised persons to ferry pets and strays in private vehicles in case ambulances were not available.The affidavit further stated that instructions had also been issued for allowing feeders to feed strays by issuing them requisite permissions and passes.When the petitioner insisted that the Animal Welfare Board, in a letter to the petitioner on May 5 and in April, had stated that pet owners could take their pets out for a walk, the state responded that after perusing the letters, no such recommendation was found, and on the contrary, the board had directed to arrange facilities for taking care of domesticated animals that would be abandoned by their owners during the pandemic. The state affidavit also pointed out that the instructions by the board were only addressed to the Pune municipal commissioner which was “surprising”. After hearing the submissions, the bench asked the petitioner to respond to the averments of the state and also sought to know under what authority could the board issue directions and posted the matter for hearing on May 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-seeks-clarity-from-activist-over-animal-welfare-board-taking-care-of-pets-during-lockdown/story-MQhYzUuLJKIhNXEldTlbRK.html
22-05-2020||City||Lockdown strengthening family ties, shows research||A research conducted by Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar, found that the lockdown has brought families closer. The research was conducted by senior researcher Vandana Singh Malik, her guide professor Rakesh Kumar and assistant professor Poonam of the department of applied Psychology of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar.According to the research, 539 persons were asked around questions through an online survey, of which 450 were from the northern part of the country.“The result was very satisfying as 65.68% of women who participated in the research said that their family ties improved during the lockdown period, similarly 34.32% men also felt the same,” Vandana said.She added that the result also suggested that 59% of women and 30% of men involved themselves in creative work.“However, the work on the research is still going on and we are also under the process of publishing it. Basically persons from the age group of 15 to 75 filled our questionnaire which was sent through various persons active on social media. Out of the total 24 questions, 15 were of mental health. We came to know that 20% of people felt lonely during the lockdown and 75% people did not feel any mental stress when they were with their family members,” she said, adding that during the lockdown 57% of women and 32% of men also accepted that social media platforms are a boon for them to keep in touch with their loved ones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-strengthening-family-ties-shows-research/story-wkgFWSKFDaInflHfs3OTQI.html
22-05-2020||Chandigarh||Now, special window for thesis submission at Panjab University||Panjab University has established a special window for thesis and dissertation submission on the varsity campus.This comes a day after the varsity allowed the PhD scholars to appear for viva online. The window will be open for one hour from 11am to 12pm at the administrative block of the university on all working days.PU registrar Karamjeet Singh said, “We have decided to establish a special window to help students. There are markings on the floor to ensure social-distancing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/now-special-window-for-thesis-submission-at-panjab-university/story-8C6SPNUaq0V8NtskUVxhYO.html
22-05-2020||City||Panvel civic chief to demarcate containment zones again||The containment zones in Panvel will be surveyed and demarcated again.After the new commissioner of Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) Sudhakar Deshmukh took charge, he is reviewing the Covid situation in the city. There are 164 containment zones in PCMC.Deshmukh said, “Containment zones will be demarcated again. They will be smaller so that some areas open for economic activity.”“Many big areas were marked as containment zones. If one case is reported from a housing society, then only that house will be sealed and if there are more cases, then the entire building will be sealed,” said Deshmukh.There are 332 positive cases in PCMC; Kamothe has the highest cases at 100 and is a containment zone.Sujeet Vyas, a city-based activist, said, “There is a need to do rework the strategy in Kamothe as the number of cases is increasing. Although it was declared a containment zone, people are seen roaming freely without following social distancing norm.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panvel-civic-chief-to-demarcate-containment-zones-again/story-ybVtgYKsymKA4NNcHTpHeM.html
22-05-2020||Chandigarh||Focus on conflict resolution to solve border disputes: Former Western Command chief||The country’s politico-security strategy should be aimed at conflict resolution instead of conflict management, said Lt General Gurdeep Singh (retd) former Western Command Chief of Staff. He was speaking during a webinar on proxy war in Jammu and Kashmir organised by the Panjab University’s department of defence and national security on Friday. He said, “If there is any lack of trust or alienation in any section of the population, it should be addressed. Another step can be restoration of 4G internet. Once the Covid-19 lockdown is relaxed, Jammu and Kashmir should be given statehood and fresh elections should be held.” Based on his stint in Jammu and Kashmir, he spoke on the evolution of proxy war in the erstwhile state over the last three decades. He said we need to accept the fact that a resident of Jammu and Kashmir was as patriotic as any other Indian and positive stories needed to be highlighted in media from the region to build trust.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/focus-on-conflict-resolution-to-solve-border-disputes-former-western-command-chief/story-UuYZrJwaivCSxWSV8ZYedJ.html
22-05-2020||City||Reservation counters open at 12 railway stations of Ambala division||Ahead of partial resumption of train services from June 1, ticket reservation counters were opened at 12 railway stations under the Ambala division on Friday.As per details, Railways has issued a list of 100 pairs of trains for which online booking has already started through IRCTC website and mobile app. Fare shall be as normally charged by Railways.Ambala division senior divisional commercial manager (DCM) Hari Mohan said passenger reservation system counters were opened first at a few stations and the number will be gradually increased as per the demand.“The counters of all A1, A and B category stations like Ambala Cantt, Yamunanagar Jagadhari, Saharanpur, Rajpura, Sirhind, Chandigarh, Kalka, Patiala, Bathinda, Abohar and Una Himachal were opened from Friday. However, it would be ensured that bare minimum staff is utilised for the functioning of these counters and customers adhere to social distancing norms,” the senior DCM said.He added, “We have received instructions from the railway board to open these counters gradually in a phased manner. More counters might be opened at other stations from Saturday.”“The refund services for the tickets booked prior to lockdown will be available at the counters from May 25. Currently, we don’t have cash and so we will be able to initiate refunds once cash inflow begins,” he maintained.The counters at Ambala city railway station didn’t open on Friday as per the instruction, however, a few unaware customers had come to avail reservation and cancellation related services. At the cantonment railway station, around half-a-dozen customers queued up in the morning at counter number 3. Two pairs of Jan Shatabdi trains will halt at Ambala Cantt station from June 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/reservation-counters-open-at-12-railway-stations-of-ambala-division/story-82qCWtkB1zGhHfr3rZphiJ.html
22-05-2020||City||Sarpanch’s husband shot dead in Yamunanagar||The husband of a woman sarpanch of Ballchapper village in Yamunanagar district’s Mustafabad block was shot dead on Friday, police said. As per the information, more than half a dozen shots were fired by two to three men on a bike at village head Satnam Kaur’s husband Rashpal Singh while he was working in the fields. By the time people reached the spot from the nearby fields, the accused had escaped. Rashpal was declared “brought dead” at a hospital here, police said. Police said as per preliminary investigation a piece of panchayat land in Balchhapper village was illegally occupied by some people while this land was identified for installation of solar panels. The illegal occupants of the land, however, were evicted by authorities recently. The people who had illegally occupied this land, however, held some grudge against Rashpal Singh and suspected him to be behind getting them evicted, police said. Three people have been named as accused by the victim’s family members. Superintendent of police Himanshu Garg said, “The prime motive behind the murder will be established after the accused are arrested.”Station in-charge Satpal Singh said, “Rashpal’s family says three men are involved in the murder. A case under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code has been registered. The autopsy report is awaited.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sarpanch-s-husband-shot-dead-in-yamunanagar/story-UagtptBP1XBhwzDqHI10fN.html
22-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tent house traders seek admn’s aid to salvage business||Due to the ban on all social, cultural and religious gatherings amid the Covid-19 lockdown, the tent house business in the city has been reeling under losses. On Friday, the Chandigarh Tent Dealer Society wrote to the UT adviser seeking relaxation in the lockdown rules and financial aid.Anil Vohra, adviser of the body and president of Chandigarh Beopar Mandal, said, “Other businesses have started reopening, but there is no scope for tent dealers even in the coming months as people will avoid organising big functions.” He said, “During March and April, the business booms for tent dealers. But all events were cancelled due to the lockdown, causing huge damages to tent houses.”Ramesh Kumar, proprietor of Durga Tent Services in Sector 23, said, “We had reopened our shop on May 3, but till date no one has contacted us, which is discouraging. All traders have lost at least 20-25 contracts between March and May.” Amandeep Singh, who owns Dhir Tent and Decorators in Sector 41, said, “Upon cancellation, people also demanded their advance payments back. Many people had organised events in March, but haven’t paid the full amount, and it is unlikely that they will pay their dues anytime soon.”Jagtar Singh, president of the society, said in their letter to the adviser, they had sought that the EMIs of business loans should be deferred at least by six months and its interest should be waived. They also sought that after the lockdown gets relaxed, interest free loans should be allowed to the traders for at least a year and GST charges for services should be brought down from 18% to 5%.“We have also asked the administration to consider increasing the limit of guests at weddings from 50 to 100 to help tent houses get contracts, while they will ensure that all safety norms are followed,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-tent-house-traders-seek-admn-s-aid-to-salvage-business/story-O7Oc7AmBea54GsFl2cM4gO.html
22-05-2020||Chandigarh||Online panel discussion of V-Cs, academicians held at Panjab University||The Human Resources Development Centre (HRDC) of Panjab University (PU) on Friday organised an online panel discussion of vice-chancellors (V-Cs) and academic administrators of various higher educational institutes of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh.The discussion was held on the theme “Impact of Covid-19 on education system and the way ahead”.PU V-C Raj Kumar said revolutionary changes will be seen in the domain of science research, which will shift from isolated to collaborative mode of research. Due to the reverse migration to the rural areas, new equations will emerge and even village will become new centres of growth, he added. BS Ghuman, V-C of Punjabi University, Patiala, talked about various initiatives taken by the university in teaching and administration through digital mode, dedicated webpage and resource pooling.Haryana State Higher Education Council chairman BK Kuthiala, who chaired the panel discussion, said, “The international narrative is moving around setting a new normal that can be categorised into the immediate normal and the distant normal. The main question is whether we can surmount the challenge or we will compromise and dilute the quality.”Sushma Yadav, V-C of BPS Women’s University, Sonepat, gave her inputs on intangible aspects of caring for students besides talking about philosophical questions in education and development of resilience, creativity and emotional cohesion through education.The V-C of MDU University, Rohtak, Rajbeer, focused on the digital divide and the challenge of providing safety and hygiene to the students in the class rooms, hostels and all areas of the campus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/online-panel-discussion-of-v-cs-academicians-held-at-panjab-university/story-rQiHjC0SLCAshO4vUdHHrJ.html
22-05-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University contractual employees await salaries for three months||Contractual employees of Panjab University (PU) have not been paid their salaries for three months, leaving them struggling for finances amid the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown. One of the employees requesting anonymity said, “Around 12 contractual workers have not been paid salaries since February. Our contractor says he will pay us only after he gets money from the university. We have already taken up the matter with PU and also requested the authorities to disburse our salaries.”“It was only after a multiple requests to PU authorities that we received salaries for February and March a few days ago,” said a plumber working in the university.Meanwhile, on Saturday, Panjab University Campus Students Council (PUCSC) joint secretary Manpreet Singh Mahal wrote a letter to PU vice-chancellor requesting him to look into the matter. Condemning the treatment being meted out to the contractual employees, Mahal said the council had made the request and asked the university authorities to disburse their salaries. Contractor JS Tanwar, however, said he could not do anything as the university had not processed his bills and not made any reimbursement since January. “I have followed all rules and regulations of the contract. Once PU authorities reimburse the amount, I will pay the employees right away.”PU executive engineer RK Rai said, “We have released reimbursements of February and other bills are also under process. We will release the payments of March within a week.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-contractual-employees-await-salaries-for-three-months/story-tz3jiXjeTpqbM89kZfU2pO.html
22-05-2020||City||Leopard rescue in Junnar saves cat drowning in open well||PUNE The effect of the Covid-19 lockdown has resulted in wild animals venturing out into the quiet, open streets across Maharashtra.In one such case in Otur village in Junnar, an adult, male leopard fell into a 45-foot-deep well and it took the timely intervention of the Wildlife SOS team and the Maharashtra forest department to rescue the wild cat.The leopard’s panic-stricken roars woke up villagers in Khodad, Otur, as the animal was struggling to stay afloat.“The villagers are accustomed to seeing leopards on occasion, living as they do in close proximity to the scrub jungles that serve as the leopard’s natural habitat. In situations like this, their first instinct is to call the forest department and the Wildlife SOS team at the Manikdoh leopard rescue centre in Junnar,” said Yogesh Ghodke, regional forest officer, Otur. He added, “I am glad that timely intervention helped save the leopard’s life. This is a common occurrence as leopards often fall into open wells while foraging. We have advised the villagers to take precautionary measures by covering the wells.”The villagers systematically cordoned off the area and lowered a makeshift platform for the leopard to climb onto for temporary support. On arrival, the rescue team quickly rolled out the extraction plan and lowered a trap cage into the well. After a few attempts, the leopard successfully climbed into the trap cage and was rescued.Kartick Satyanarayan, co-founder and CEO, Wildlife SOS, said, “These are very difficult times for the world, but that will not stop us from providing aid to both wildlife and communities in need. We are grateful to the villagers and forest officers for making this rescue a success. The collective efforts of the teams have in the past led to many such operations to mitigate man-leopard conflict in the region and helping wild animals in distress.”Nikhil Bangar, wildlife veterinary officer, Wildlife SOS, said, “Such operations require patience and careful planning to ensure that we don’t cause any further stress to the animal. The leopard is unhurt and is a healthy male, approximately seven-years-old. The leopard is no under temporary observation.” Maharashtra is a stronghold for the leopard population in India, but over the years, these elusive wild cats that once roamed freely across the vast terrains of the Western Ghats have had to adapt to the ever-changing landscape; a direct result of human induced factors like habitat destruction, rapid urbanisation and encroachment of forested areas.The Indian leopard, which is listed as ‘vulnerable’ under the IUCN Red List, has an estimated figure of 12,000-14,000 in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/leopard-rescue-in-junnar-saves-cat-drowning-in-open-well/story-FZ4TNJ9wIdzATJ2kC01Y3O.html
22-05-2020||Mumbai||Yes Bank fraud: Kapil, Dheeraj Wadhawan to remain in ED custody till May 27||The special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court on Friday extended the custody of Dewan Housing Finance Limited (DHFL) promoters Dheeraj Wadhawan and Kapil Wadhawan to Enforcement Directorate (ED) till May 27 in connection with a money laundering case linked to YES Bank.The brothers were arrested on May 14 and are since then in ED’s custody. The agency sought the extension of their custody on the ground that the case involves voluminous documents and that the two brothers are not cooperating with the investigating team.ED initiated proceedings against the Wadhawans based on a first information report (FIR) registered by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on March 7 against the two brothers and Yes Bank promoter Rana Kapoor, after which the DHFL promoters moved the Bombay high court seeking anticipatory bail. However, a single bench of justice Bharati Dangre had rejected their pleas stating, “In view of the serious allegations of money laundering, with a deep-rooted conspiracy entered into by Wadhawans with several others, particularly YES Bank promoter Rana Kapoor and his family members, call for their custodial interrogation.”As per allegations made by the agency, YES Bank has invested ₹3,700 crore in DHFL’s short-term non-convertible debentures between April and June 2018, for which Kapoor has received kickbacks worth ₹600 crore as loans to DoIT Urban Ventures (India) Private Limited. Kapoor’s daughters hold 100℅ stake in DoIT Urban Ventures Private Limited, while Morgan Credits is controlled by his wife.The judge also said that only the applicants can throw light on the nature of transactions and the alleged that the conspiracy can be cracked only by interrogating them over the rolling of funds in the sister companies by deciphering their accounts.The applicants will have to be confronted with various incriminating documents, with respect to the loans sanctioned in its favour by YES Bank, as well as those sanctioned by DHFL in favour of Kapoor, so as to unearth the multi-crore conspiracy, the judge observed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/yes-bank-fraud-kapil-dheeraj-wadhawan-to-remain-in-ed-custody-till-may-27/story-UcXMz9hb3qmMQ5Q4JIc7qO.html
22-05-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana widens net of free health services, beneficiaries||The Haryana health department has expanded the list of beneficiaries exempted from paying medical charges, including per day fee of a bed in the general ward, intensive care unit (ICU) and high dependency unit (HDU).Also, around 70 tests/investigations, for which charges were applicable earlier, will be done free of cost at government hospitals, irrespective of the patient’s financial position.On May 20, the Haryana government had published the revised hospital fee and charges in supersession of state government’s July 7, 2017 notification. As per the notification published in the gazette, the bed charges of ICU will be ₹500 per day, private room charges will be ₹250 per day, ₹350 per day charge for high dependency unit and ₹10 per day for a general ward bed.REVISED FEE OPD fee: ₹5ICU bed charges: ₹500 per dayGeneral ward bed: ₹10 per dayPrivate room bed: ₹250 per dayHigh Dependency Unit bed: ₹350 per dayICU bed: ₹500 per dayNo category has been exempted from ₹250 per day hospital bed charge for the private room.However, the state government has exempted Antyodaya Anna Yojna (AAY) scheme beneficiaries, survivors of domestic violence and sexual assault, freedom fighters, and beneficiaries of pension schemes from ₹5 charge as out-patient door (OPD) prescription fee, ₹10 indoor admission fee, ₹10 bed charge of general ward, ₹350 bed charges of HDU and ₹500 for ICU bed. The holders of Ayushman Bharat–Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana gold card have also been included in this category. The categories including Below Poverty Line (BPL) families of Haryana, antenatal/postnatal women (up to 42 days after delivery), infants (up to 1 year), unconscious or unknown patients, will not pay certain charges including ICU, HDU and general ward bed fee.“The revised fee structure brings in much more relief to people,” Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary, health, said.While including at least six new categories in the list of those exempted from paying certain hospital charges, the government has sharply brought down the number of tests to be done free of cost with respect to every category of patient.As per the July 7, 2017 notification there were 134 tests/investigations for which the patients were being charged. Now, government hospitals will charge fee for around 70 different types of tests and around 68 tests will be done free of cost.The bone marrow biopsy for which patients earlier had to pay ₹400 will now be free of cost. Similarly, there will be no charges for X-ray, HIV, blood sugar, Haemoglobin Estimation (Hb), Total Leukocyte Count (TLC), uric acid, total protein, dengue, HIV, urine and stool analysis, X-ray, ECG etc. These tests will be done free of cost at government health institutions, the notification says.PAY FOR POSTMORTEM?As per the May 20 notification published in the Haryana government gazette in supersession of July 7, 2017 notification about “revised Hospital fee and charges”, the charges for keeping a body in the mortuary of a civil hospital will be ₹300 per day.In 2017 notification, the post mortem examination was “free for all” and there was no mention of charges for keeping the body in the mortuary. However, the latest notification at serial number 9 says: “Post Mortem Examination: Free for all.” In the next line, however, it says: “Charges for keeping dead body in mortuary ₹300 per day: For bodies kept for post mortem examination.”FREE TESTSThe 68 tests that will be done free of cost include ECG, USG, Lipid profile, Rheumatoid Factor (RA), Blood Culture, Urine culture, Biopsy and/Bone marrow aspiration, Total Red Blood Cell Count, Platelet Count by cell counter, Blood Sugar (Fasting/ Random/Post Prandial), blood urea, uric acid, Histopathology- Biopsy and/Bone marrow aspiration Exfoliative, Cytology/Cytopathology).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-widens-net-of-free-health-services-beneficiaries/story-mprjqlwtiEeggNVRxLM7BP.html
22-05-2020||City||Three arrested for taking money from migrants for train seats||Three men were arrested for cheating migrant labourers of their money by promising them travel passes to go to Bihar. The police arrested the three near Panvel railway station.A group of 14 people was walking barefoot from Dapoli in Ratnagiri and reached Panvel on Friday, after covering over 175 kms in around 24 hours.Another group of nine people had reached the railway station from Wadghar in Panvel.The three approached the workers, seeing their desperation to get back to their hometowns. The accused told them they make travel passes for them to board the next train to Bihar. They demanded Rs1,000 for it.“The accused accepted Rs1000 from one group. Before they could take money from others, our team present on the ground noticed it and caught the trio,” said Ajay Kumar Landge, senior inspector at Panvel city police station.Hasan Sayyed, 45, Irfan Mahigir, 42, and Raghavendra Gupta, 33, were charged under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code, Epidemic Diseases Act, Disaster Management Act and Maharashtra Police Act. While Sayyed is unemployed, Mahigir is a fruit seller and Gupta is a hawker. The police recovered Rs1,000 from them.The police have registered the migrant workers for the next train to Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-arrested-for-taking-money-from-migrants-for-train-seats/story-gCjIOjn2QUh1jtXIMxG37K.html
22-05-2020||City||Khanna police arrest prime accused in Ludhiana jewellery shop robbery case||Wanted by the Ludhiana police, the prime accused in the 2.1-kg gold robbery case was arrested by the Khanna police on Friday. The accused has been identified as Vishnu Soni alias Sam of Ganesh Nagar in Ludhiana. Police have also recovered a .315-bore pistol and four live cartridges from his possession.BOOKED UNDER ARMS ACTKhanna senior superintendent of police (SSP) Harpreet Singh said that a team led by Sadar Khanna station house officer had installed a checkpost at Mohanpur T-point following a tip-off and caught the accused with the weapon. He was booked under the Arms Act following his arrest.During preliminary investigation, he confessed to the cops that he, along with his three accomplices, had robbed 2.1-kg gold from a wholesale jewellery shop in Ghumar Mandi on January 29.HAD HELD SHOP OWNER, EMPLOYEE HOSTAGEThe robbers had held shop owner, Vijay Jain, and his employee, Neeraj, at gunpoint and fled with the gold estimated to be worth Rs 80 lakh in a Toyota Fortuner car. A case under Sections 392 (robbery) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of Indian Penal Code and 25/54/59 of Arms Act was registered at Division number 8 police station on January 30.ACCOMPLICE IS A HISTORY-SHEETERSSP Khanna said that one of the accomplices has been identified as Tajinder Singh alias Teja of Nawanshehar.Tajinder and his two brothers are notorious criminals who had been arrested a number of times in cases of murder and quarrel. Tajinder is out on bail while his two brothers are still in the jail.Khanna deputy superintendent of police Rajanparminder Singh said that Vishnu Soni was residing in a rented accommodation in Mandiala village of Khanna for the past few days. “We are trying to find out how long he has been here and whether the landlord had got police verification or not,” he said.ACCUSED LIVED IN A RENTED ACCOMMODATION IN CITYAccording to sources, Ludhiana police was trying to arrest a person name Sam and the team had also conducted a raid in Noida to arrest him before lockdown but Sam had managed to flee the then. City police was aware that one of accused in the case is Vishnu Soni but they didn’t know that Vishnu Soni and Sam were the same person.However, as of now two accused have been arrested in this case so far. The police is yet to recover the vehicle used in the crime and arrest the remaining accused.Sub inspector Kulbir Singh, in-charge police post Ghumar Mandi said that the city police have first arrested Bhushan Kumar alias Bhushan of Nawanshehr in this case and total five persons were named in the FIR. “Earlier, the case was registered against four persons but later a role of woman also came in light,” he said.The police denied to disclose the names of other accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/khanna-police-arrest-prime-accused-in-ludhiana-s-jewellery-shop-robbery-case/story-GlPmwHUOSqz6AWdreRmO6K.html
22-05-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 victims can’t be deprived of decent burial, says HC||Covid-19 victims cannot be deprived of the right to a decent burial, especially when there is no evidence to suggest that cadavers can spread the virus, the Bombay high court said on Friday, while dismissing a petition filed by four Bandra residents seeking prohibition on the burial of Covid-19 victims at three inter-connected Muslim cemeteries in the vicinity of their residence.The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice SS Shinde said in Parmanand Katara’s case the Supreme Court has held that the right to dignity and fair treatment under Article 21 of the Constitution is not only available to a living man but also to his body after his death.“Right to a decent burial, commensurate with the dignity of the individual, is recognized as a facet of the right to life guaranteed by Article 21 of the Constitution,” said the bench referring to the apex court decision. “There is, thus, no reason as to why an individual who dies during this period of crisis because of suspected or confirmed COVID-19 infection would not be entitled to the facilities he or she would have otherwise been entitled to but for the crisis,” the bench added.The four petitioners had challenged the validity of a circular issued by the BMC commissioner on April 9 identifying the three inter-connected Muslim cemeteries as sites for burial of Covid-19 victims.They complained that the cemeteries were at the heart of Bandra west and were surrounded by thickly populated residential areas.They said on March 30, the BMC had decided to cremate bodies all Covid-19 victims at the nearest crematorium, irrespective of their religion. “The said decision was taken as the burial grounds in Mumbai are in highly dense localities, with high chances of contamination in dense residential areas nearby,” said their petition.They added that the April 9 circular was completely contrary to the March 30 decision and therefore prayed for an order restraining the civic body from allowing the burial of any Covid-19 victim at the three Muslim cemeteries.The state government had opposed the petition by pointing out that burial at the cemeteries was not likely to spread the deadly virus in surrounding areas.“It is declared by the World Health Organisation that coronavirus is not air bound and hence transmission of the virus to other people staying in the vicinity of the burial ground is highly impossible,” said the government.“The transmission cannot happen unless people in the locality come in direct contact with the dead body brought for burial or cremation,” it said, adding, “Direct contact of people staying in the locality with a dead body is impossible as the dead body is wrapped in plastic by hospital staff before handing over the body to its relatives for cremation.”BMC supported the government stating WHO guidelines on bodies of Covid-19 patients “clearly stipulate that except in cases of haemorrhagic fevers (such as Ebola) and cholera, dead bodies are generally not infectious. Only the lungs of patients with pandemic influenza, if handled improperly during an autopsy, can be infectious. Other than the above, cadavers do not transmit the disease.”The high court accepted their contentions. The bench said in the system of governance prevailing in our country, it is highly unlikely that a Governmental decision would please each and every citizen. “While dissent on valid grounds could contribute to newer developments in the matter of framing of policies, resentment of the nature put forth by the Petitioners in WP-I leaves a bad taste in the mouth,” it said while dismissing the petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-victims-can-t-be-deprived-of-decent-burial-says-hc/story-AgujSpeZ7ftHcqduz1EISM.html
22-05-2020||Mumbai||TISS group starts fund-raising campaign to pay fees of 17 scholarship students||A students’ group at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS), Mumbai, has started a fund-raising campaign for 17 students who were unable to pay their outstanding fees owing to the Covid-19 lockdown. The 17 students are beneficiaries of the Government of India- Post-Matric Scholarship (GoI-PMS) and haven’t been able to arrange funds as there is a delay in the disbursement of their scholarship.The campaign aims to raise Rs 5,22,090 to pay the students’ outstanding fees. They have raised about Rs 87,000 so far. HT had previously reported that student bodies on campus have been demanding a waiver of outstanding fees, which includes tuition fee, dining fee and hostel fee, of graduating students belonging to scheduled caste (SC), scheduled tribe (ST), other backward classes (OBC) and economically weaker sections (EWS). The institute didn’t accept this demand owing to a funds crunch.The students couldn’t even check their results as the institute has withheld results of those with outstanding fees. One of the students is a 2019 graduate and hasn’t been able to get this degree as he hasn’t paid. Failure to pay fees might affect students pursuing a Masters degree. “The institute’s financial inability to waive the fees and the state’s lag in allocating GoI-PMS scholarship, has stopped our further journey beginning from TISS. We cannot even get our Masters degree as we haven’t paid the fees,” said Goutham Raj Konda, who completed his course in Urban Policy and Governance but is unable to check his results as he has an outstanding amount of Rs 23,000. The institute has indicated that any kind of waiver-- partial or full-- was not possible, given its financial health.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/tiss-group-starts-fund-raising-campaign-to-pay-fees-of-17-scholarship-students/story-6rVFTPRgsDd4IeLHhkyGeM.html
22-05-2020||City||Slain Kashmiri Sikh cop second of 4 brothers to lay down life in militant attack||Indian Reserve Police head constable Anoop Singh (48), who was killed in Pulwama terror attack on Thursday, is the second member of his family to have laid down his life fighting militants in the valley.Anoop was the youngest among four brothers, all of whom served in the police force.Ten years ago, his eldest brother Sagar Singh had died in a bomb blast in Srinagar when the police vehicle he was travelling in to Pulwama after dropping some prisoners at the Central Jail had been hit by a remote-controlled explosion at Rainawari on December 9, 2009.“This is a family of martyrs. Sagar was killed in an explosion a decade ago and now Anoop lost his life to a militant attack,” said a relative Veeru Singh.His other two brothers have retired from executive police and fire services posts.Anoop was in the 10th battalion of Indian Reserve Police and posted in Pulwama.A resident of Pulwama’s Shadipora village, he is survived by his wife and four children – two daughters aged 22 and 18 and two sons aged 19 and 15. While his wife is a homemaker, the eldest of his daughters is in college and a son is studying in an ITI. The other two children are in school.According to his colleagues, Anoop was quite passionate about the education of his children.“He was very particular about the education of his children, especially his daughters. He wanted them to excel and become officers,” said one of his former colleagues.Mourning Anoop’s demise like the other villagers, his neighbor Randeep Singh said, “He was one of the humblest persons I have ever met. He would always greet everyone with a smile and respect young and old alike.”“People here are concerned about his children. We request the government to make arrangements for their education and employment,” he said.Singh and one of his colleagues were injured on Thursday afternoon when suspected militants fired indiscriminately upon a joint party of security forces at a checkpoint in the Prischoo area of south Kashmir’s Pulwama district. Police said the duo was evacuated to a nearby hospital where Anoop succumbed to his injuries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/slain-kashmiri-sikh-cop-second-of-4-brothers-to-lay-down-life-in-militant-attack/story-LwKxOpdGFkYUA7X7U1dshJ.html
22-05-2020||City||MCD parks to open from Saturday||New Delhi: Municipal parks in Delhi will remain open between 7 am and 7 pm from Saturday, civic officials said. Visitors will have to wear masks and mandatorily install Arogya Setu App in their mobile phones to enter the park. Access will be limited to activities such as walking and running. Group yoga, use of the open gym and exercise sessions will be prohibited. The officials said people above 65 years of age and children below 10 years and pregnant women are advised to stay home. Spitting and chewing of gutka or tobacco in the park will be strictly prohibited. The official said people will have to follow other prohibitory measures of Covid-19 such as observing social distancing, keeping hand sanitisers with them among others.The North Delhi Municipal Corporation has 6095 parks, East Delhi Municipal Corporation has 2097 parks while 6000 parks fall under the jurisdiction of the South Delhi Municipal Corporation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mcd-parks-to-open-from-saturday/story-ivZyJcjg44flePsJGXh1JN.html
22-05-2020||Chandigarh||With 37 fresh Covid-19 infections, Haryana tally climbs to 1,067||Thirty-seven more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Haryana on Friday, taking the total number of cases in the state to 1,067, officials said.Senior doctors said 11 fresh infections were reported from Gurugram, which had the highest cumulative number in the state at 250. Most new cases are contacts of already positive patients associated with vegetable trade or Delhi links. In Mahendergarh, 10 more people, who had Delhi links, tested positive for the virus. All the new patients were sent to a Covid hospital in Naranaul.5 new cases in KurukshetraFive people, including four linked to vegetable trade, are among the new Covid-19 cases in Kurukshetra, district chief medical officer Dr Sukhbir Singh said. He said of these one patient is a 28-year-old resident of Kheri Dabdalan village, who had travel history to Delhi. The four others include a 47-year-old commission agent, a 50-year-old vegetable vendor, a 60-year-old vegetable vendor from Bakali village and a 40-year-old farmer from Gharaula village of the district. Deputy commissioner Dheerender Kadgata said the Ladwa grain market was closed immediately and the areas where the patients belong to have been sealed and declared as containment zones.Three infections each in Sonepat, JindThree positive cases each were detected in Sonepat and Jind districts. The cases in Sonepat include a 26-year-old man, who had visited a Delhi hospital on May 20, a 25-year-old man who was working as an engineer in a private factory at Rai industrial area and a 20-year-old youth, who had returned from Delhi. In Jind, the son, daughter and sister of an infected cancer patient, who died on Thursday, have tested positive for the virus. Jind civil surgeon Dr Jai Bhagwan Jattan said they had collected the samples of the trio before the patient’s death and all of them are in home quarantine. The official bulletin mentioned only one case in Sonepat and none from Jind.Two cases in KarnalTwo new cases have also been reported in Karnal, taking the number of infected persons to 23 and active patients to eight in the district. Deputy commissioner Nishant Yadav said the patients, a 16-year-old youth and a 60-year-old man, belong to Sadar Bazar area of the city.Four infections reported from HisarHisar chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Yogesh Sharma said four people, including two medical employees of a private hospital, have tested positive for Covid-19 in Hisar. The two medical staff of a private hospital came in a contact with a 50-year-old man from Jind, who was suffering from lung cancer and died due to the virus on Wednesday. He said two other cases include a man from Hansi with travel history to Delhi and a taxi driver who also had recently returned from Delhi.25 more patients dischargedMeanwhile, 37 more patients were discharged on Friday. With this, the number of cured patients has gone up to 706 and the recovery rate in the state is 66%. However, reports of 4,735 samples are still awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/with-37-fresh-covid-19-infections-haryana-tally-climbs-to-1-067/story-YSjpDM5xNwrAfuM4x7isWI.html
22-05-2020||Mumbai||BMC cries foul over zero stars in Swachh Survekshan league 2020’s garbage-free city rating||Challenging Swachh Survekshan league’s zero star rating to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) in the garbage-free city section, the civic body has written a letter to the Centre pointing out loopholes in the rating process. The results of the rating were declared by the Centre this week, wherein BMC failed in one of the parameters of “sweeping of public, commercial and residential areas”. The BMC challenged the evidence uploaded by the third-party auditor on the basis of which the ratings were given. In its letter, a copy of which is with HT, BMC has also questioned the credibility of the third-party auditor.The BMC had applied for a five-star rating in the garbage-free city section in Swachh Survekshan League 2020, following which a team of third-party auditor visited the city for a survey. The team submitted a photo which showed a garbage pile up and was the basis for the zero-star rating. The BMC in its letter has challenged the authenticity of the photo stating that the evidence is tampered with.The garbage-free city rating is a prelude to the announcement of rankings for Swachh Survekshan-2020. The final rankings are likely to be announced after the lockdown is over.A senior civic official, requesting anonymity, said, “The physical site shown in the photo and the location marked does not match at all. Also, the metadata of the photo reveals that the image was modified in March. The evidence is clearly tampered with.”Hinting that such tampering may deter the city to participate in surveys, the letter stated, “Such tampering of evidence is unacceptable and raises a grave concern on the third-party auditor, data compilers and the results declared without request for clarification. This is tremendously disheartening for the morale of city staff and in future may deter the cities from participating in such activities.”Mumbai was ranked 49th among 425 cities in the 2019 Swachh Bharat Survekshan, a steep fall from its 18th rank in 2018. The Swachh Survekshan 2020, conducted by the central government, ranks cities across the country on the basis of cleanliness at public places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-cries-foul-over-zero-stars-in-swachh-survekshan-league-2020-s-garbage-free-city-rating/story-wYIh7PN8sNnRdwQTlTKc8J.html
22-05-2020||Chandigarh||Mercury breaches 40°C mark in Chandigarh||City’s maximum temperature crossed the 40 degrees Celsius mark on Friday, touching 41.9 degrees, four notches above normal.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the mercury will continue to rise further in the coming days.Speaking about the jump, scientist at IMD Chandigarh, Shivinder Singh, said, “Earlier North-Westerly winds from Pakistan and Kashmir were blowing in the region, keeping it cool. But, now winds from Rajasthan had made their way to the city, causing a considerable increase in the temperature. It will rise by another 1-2 degrees in the next few days.”Singh added that the dry spell was likely to continue in the region, which will contribute to the rise in temperature. “Cyclone Amphan, though far from the north, drew in winds from across the region and drained out the moisture. This has led to heat waves in some parts of India.”Heat wave in plains is declared when the maximum temperature goes over 45 degrees or is 4.5 degrees above normal.Friday’s maximum temperature at 41.9 degrees was 2.2 degrees more than Thursday’s 39.7 degrees. The minimum temperature also went up from 21.8 degrees to 22.1 degrees, one degree below normal. In the next three days, the day temperature will remain between 42 and 43 degrees, while the minimum temperature will be around 24 degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mercury-breaches-40-c-mark-in-chandigarh/story-ljFVaxBLsKmJb0nkKUoLHK.html
22-05-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai police head constable dies of Covid-19||A Head Constable from Vile Parle Police Station passed away due to Covid-19, informed the Maharashtra Police on Friday.“HC Arun Phadtare from Vile Parle Police Station, Mumbai, lost his life to coronavirus. May his soul rest in peace,” informed the Maharashtra Police on Twitter.The tweet further added: “DGP and all ranks of Maharashtra Police offer their condolences to the Phadtare family.”As per the update provided by the Union Health Ministry, Maharashtra has a total of 41,642 Covid-19 cases of which, 11,726 patients have been cured/discharged while 1,454 patients have died due to the deadly virus.India on Friday recorded its biggest spike in Covid-19 cases with 6,088 new cases and 148 deaths reported in the last 24 hours, taking the count of coronavirus cases in the country to 1,18,447.As per the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW), out of the total cases, 66,330 are active cases and 3,583 have succumbed to the infection. As many as 48,533 patients have been cured/discharged and one migrated to date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-head-constable-dies-of-covid-19/story-DoeeZK3kLWNIWdDBmLFUBI.html
22-05-2020||Chandigarh||Manimajra man held for carrying banned pills||A 36-year-old man was arrested with 1,600 pills of restricted medicines near the Modern Housing Complex in Sector 13 (Manimajra) on Thursday.Police said the accused, Salim Ansari of Mori Gate Manimajra, was approaching the BSNL turn on foot around 11.30am. On spotting the police check post, he tried to run away but was apprehended. On frisking him, police found pills of tramadol hydrochloride, dicyclomine, hydrochloride and chlorpheniramine maleate in his bag.Police said Ansari, an electrician by profession, had purchased the medicines from a chemist shop in Saharanpur and planned to sell them further. He was booked in a similar case in 2016 when he was found carrying 240 banned capsules. The case remains sub-judice. A case under Section 22 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act was registered at the Manimajra police station. The accused was presented in court and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/manimajra-man-held-for-carrying-banned-pills/story-lH9QwoE4KXmZnMH4sUI1sO.html
22-05-2020||City||Rape accused commits suicide in Rohtak jail||A 31-year-old man, accused of raping a minor girl, committed suicide in Rohtak’s Sunaria jail on Friday, jail officials said.A police spokesperson said the undertrial, Pramod Kumar of Sonepat’s Ferozpur village, hanged himself from the prisioner cell’s skylight window using a bedsheet.He said the matter came to light on Friday morning when inmates gathered for counting. “The undertrial prisoner had been shifted to Sunaria jail from Sonepat jail on March 14 this year for psychiatry treatment at Post graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak. Police officials found him hanging with a noose in his barrack,” the spokesperson said.“His mental health was not good since he was booked under the POCSO for allegdly raping a minor girl,” he added. The body has been sent to the PGIMS for postmortem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rape-accused-commits-suicide-in-rohtak-jail/story-sIhvylOadrFOfEb9KiNkZL.html
22-05-2020||Chandigarh||₹2.93 crore sanctioned for construction workers in Ferozepur||A total of 2,717 construction workers in Guru Har Sahai subdivision of Ferozepur district will soon receive an ex-gratia grant or stipend. A total of Rs. 2,93,11,528 has been sanctioned, said cabinet minister Rana Gurmeet Singh Sodhi made the announcement. The minister said the scheme covered stipends, LTC and shagun at marriage, ex-gratia grant, help for cremation, pension for the mentally retarded, delivery benefit, financial help for cremation and other benefits. A sum of Rs 2,76,68,000 has been approved for the children of 2,564 construction workers, Rs 2,64,000 for 132 LTC cases, Rs 62,000 as part of the Shagun Scheme, Rs 1,90,528 for surgery, Rs 9,00,000 for ex-gratia grant, Rs 1,00,000 for cremation and Rs 1,02,000 has been approved under the Baldi scheme, he added.The minister said all the approved cases have been referred to Punjab building and other construction workers’ welfare boards for payment and the amount will directly be transferred into the bank accounts of all 2,717 beneficiaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2-93-crore-sanctioned-for-construction-workers-in-ferozepur/story-9luckSt86tCvQVghiVxyaM.html
22-05-2020||Kolkata||Cyclone Amphan inundates Kolkata’s College Street, deals fresh blow to book business||After cyclone Amphan lashed Kolkata bringing in heavy rain, water entered closed outlets of booksellers, publishers and binders of the historic College Street, and damaged printed books and pages ready for binding, causing losses to the tune of lakhs of rupees, an official said on Friday.The apex body of publishers and booksellers of the state said they will soon hold a meeting and may have to seek help from the state government to bail them out as the cyclone dealt a fresh blow to the business after the two-month-long lockdown.“If you consider the waterlogging inside publishing units and shops which caused serious damage to printed books, the losses could be into lakhs,” Apu Dey, a key member of the Publishers and Booksellers Guild, told PTI.“However, if you also take into account the seeping of water book binding units as well, where printed pages are bound in volumes, the losses can be more, may run into a crore,” he said.Dey said the COVID-19 induced lockdown had stalled publications before the Bengali New Year on April 14, and now cyclone Amphan has turned things difficult for publishers and book sellers of College Street.Dotted with makeshift bookstalls along both sides of the road, College Street is a one-of-a-kind book market in the world that draws locals and tourists alike from every nook and cranny of the globe.According to an estimate, around 100 big and small publishers and over 200 shops sell books on various subjects - fiction, non-fiction, text books, second-hand books. Besides, there are stalls that sell all paper stationery items.Images of books floating on the waterlogged street on Thursday morning have gone viral on social media.“Our world is tremendously affected. The first attack was by Covid-19, followed by two months of lockdown and then Amphan! Thousands of books kept in locked book stores have been soiled,” Guild President Tridib Chatterjee said.The Deb Sahitya Kutir, an old publishing house, said it has incurred heavy losses as thousands of printed pages ready for binding were damaged, besides printed books, as water seeped below closed shutters.“We are not in a position now to calculate the losses.It will take months to recover,” Rupa Majumder said on behalf of the Deb Sahitya Kutir.A 50-something man was seen sitting near his pavement stall staring at textbooks that got soaked and damaged in rainwater.“I am finished,” he uttered.While some publishers and store owners could rush to College Street to check the damage done by the cyclone, many who live in the districts could not as trains are not running because of the lockdown, said Dey.The history of College Street goes back to the time when the Hindu College was established in 1817, which was later renamed as the Presidency College.Other major educational institutions also came up along the stretch during the 19th century.While the Calcutta University was established in 1857, the Hindu School came up in 1817, the Hare School in 1818 and the Sanskrit College in 1824.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/cyclone-amphan-inundates-kolkata-s-college-street-deals-fresh-blow-to-book-business/story-J5p4dCUOLrp8r44wkV7sgL.html
22-05-2020||City||Panchkula realtor found dead in his car in Zirakpur||A property dealer was found dead in his car parked outside Ganesh Complex in Zirakpur on Friday. The deceased was identified as Mohan Sharma, 50, resident of Sector 19, Panchkula, police said. His family told the police that he was an alcoholic and often used to sleep in his car. He was found dead in the back seat of his Tata Indigo car parked on the roadside. On the statement of his family, police have initiated inquest proceedings. The body was handed over to the family after autopsy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panchkula-realtor-found-dead-in-his-car-in-zirakpur/story-NffQ2pYlKYvWh0Apris83K.html
22-05-2020||City||14 villagers quarantined after a Covid patient violated home isolation in Khanna village||A day after a 46-year-old Covid-19 patient of Kishangarh village in Khanna was booked for violating the home isolation order, as many as 14 persons who came in contact with him have been quarantined.Though the patient had not been tested negative when he was sent home from the civil hospital on the night of May 17, he lied to the villagers that he had been cured.According to Khanna senior medical officer Dr Rajinder Gulati, the patient was discharged on the basis of the new policy of Ministry of health and family welfare which stated that mild and moderate cases can be allowed to go home 10 days of the onset of symptoms and no testing is required prior to discharge.The Kishangarh patient had tested positive on May 8 and had spent 10 days at the civil hospital. As he remained asymptomatic, the hospital authorities decided to discharge him. He was told to stay in home isolation for at least a week. Gulati added that such patients are discharged only if the family members or relatives give proper undertaking that the patient will remain in home isolation and will not step out of house. “We also remain in contact with the care taker of the patient for supplying medicine. So, proper procedure is followed before discharging the patient. It is the negligence of the patient that he had stepped out of home,” he said.PATIENT WAS ‘HONOURED’ BY VILLAGERSOn Thursday, some photos of the patient getting honoured by villagers surfaced on social media. In the picture, there were around 10 persons standing with the patient as he accepted a ‘Siropa’ from them. Following this, the Khanna Sadar police registered a case under Sections 188 (disobedience to the orders duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act.Inspector Jaspal Singh, Sadar Khanna station house officer, said that when the patient returned to his village, he had lied to the villagers that he had been cured. “Now, 14 villagers who came in contact with the patient have been quarantined,” he said.He added that the patient has been given warning and he has also promised that he will not step out of his house now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/14-villagers-quarantined-after-a-covid-patient-violated-home-isolation-in-khanna-village/story-CZo7B8NVSSphhjPNvPw5wI.html
22-05-2020||Mumbai||HC refuses parole leave to DU professor GN Saibaba||The Bombay high court on Friday rejected plea filed by Delhi University professor GN Saibaba for parole leave.A division bench of justice RK Deshpande and justice Amit Borkar rejected the plea of the wheelchair-bound English professor primarily in view of the fact that the place in Bangalore where he intended to spend his parole leave was declared a Covid containment zone.For his release on Parole, Saibaba had also pleaded a ground of illness of his mother, who is suffering from cancer. The bench however noticed from a report submitted by prison authorities that his mother was an outdoor patient and brother of the DU professor and his wife were there to take care of his ailing mother.The bench has, however, granted the DU professor liberty to apply for parole leave after the lockdown is over and the area is declared free from the containment zone.In March 2017 Gadchiroli sessions court has convicted Saibaba along with five others for their links with Left-wing extremist organisations and for aging war against India. All of them have been sentenced to life imprisonment.Saibaba’s application for suspension of sentence and grant of bail is already rejected by high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-refuses-parole-leave-to-du-professor-gn-saibaba/story-WtDt8o0SwzzSeqVcErJgKL.html
22-05-2020||Chandigarh||Amid Ramazan, Vaishno Devi Shrine prepares sehri, iftari for 500 quarantined Muslims||Epitomising communal harmony, the Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine has been providing sehri and iftari to around 500 Muslims quarantined at Aashirwad Bhawan in Katra during the holy month of Ramadan. The shrine had converted Aashirwad Bhawan in Katra into a quarantine centre in the month of March amid the coronavirus pandemic.Chief executive officer of the board Ramesh Kumar said, “In the month of Ramazan, the Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board has been working overnight to provide sehri and iftari to our Muslim brethren in the morning and the evening.” Watch: Vaishno Devi Shrine prepares sehri, iftari for 500 Muslims amid Ramzan “We are running a quarantine centre at Aashirwad Bhawan, which has a capacity of 500 beds. Since it’s the holy month of Ramzan and the government of Jammu and Kashmir has been bringing back its residents from different parts of the country, we converted Aashirwad Bhawan in Katra into a quarantine centre in the month of March,” said Kumar.“Those brought to Aashirwad Bhawan are mostly labourers, who are fasting during the month of Ramazan. So, we decided to provide them sehri and iftari everyday,” said the CEO.The migrant labourers have come to Jammu and Kashmir from different parts of the country in special Shramik trains and buses to Udhampur town, which is centrally located. Katra is around 40km away from Udhampur.Kumar said apart from the Aashirwad Bhawan, the shrine board has been providing breakfast, lunch and dinner to the people quarantined in other government facilities in Katra.SHRINE HAS SO FAR SPENT RS 1.5 CRORE The Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine is one of the most revered Hindu shrines and is also the second richest after Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams in India.The shrine board has spent around Rs 80 lakh on providing food to the needy since March 20 in various quarantine centres at Katra . They have spent around Rs 1.5 crore in aiding the Covid-19 response.All facilities of the shrine board in Katra are well maintained and pilgrims from across the country prefer them over hotels for their cleanliness, hygienic food, comfortable bedding and hospitable staff, a pilgrim observed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/amid-ramadan-vaishno-devi-shrine-prepares-sehri-iftari-for-500-quarantined-muslims/story-hpZdWD7a2CL2IBH6NQSBEP.html
22-05-2020||Mumbai||School chain tells staff to take leave without pay||Teachers of a school chain that operates in Mumbai have alleged that they have been asked to take leave without pay by the school authorities in the middle of the Covid-19 crisis.Teachers working in various branches of Narayana e-Techno school have alleged that the school management told them that they could not be paid for the next few months due to financial constraints. “We were told that the school was facing financial issues due to the current situation and that our salaries won’t be paid for the next few months until schools reopen,” said a teacher from the school’s Bhayander branch. The school chain runs five branches in the city and 12 branches in the state. Along with the teachers, members of the non-teaching staff have also been reportedly told to take leave without pay from May. “Nearly 150 people including teaching and non-teaching staff are affected due to this sudden decision of the management. Many of them are single earning members in the family and this has put immense pressure on them and their families,” said another teacher on the condition of anonymity. Pathan Sayed Khan, head of academics for the Mumbai region at the school said that no teacher is removed from the rolls so far. “We have not removed anyone and will not do so even in future unless there is some issue with respect to their teaching. Some teachers were not willing to teach online as a result of which we asked them to take a break. Especially in Maharashtra, parents are not paying fees due to economic reasons and we are thus having some temporary financial difficulties,” he added. Teachers, however, said that they were willing to teach online but said that they were never given that option. “We were not even told that this can be an option. If given a choice nobody would want to lose their job,” said the teacher from Bhayander.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/school-chain-tells-staff-to-take-leave-without-pay/story-6PT5kOigf4dFj0Vq2OXE1L.html
22-05-2020||City||Eye donation centres setup in 21 Haryana districts||The state government has set up eye donation centres in 21 district hospitals in Haryana under the National Programme for Control of Blindness and Visual Impairment. Additional chief secretary, health, Rajeev Arora said these centres will help the health department clear backlog of corneal blindness in the state. “Three new eye banks will be started soon in Karnal, Khanpur Kalan and Mewat medical colleges. All the 68 eye assistants in the state have been trained in cornea collection to overcome shortage of doctors. Anyone can call the toll-free number 108 for eye donation,” he said.Arora said the main objectives of this programme is to reduce preventable blindness in Haryana, enhance community awareness on eye care and to secure co-ordination between government health facilities and medical colleges.Emphasising on the importance of eye donation, he urged the public to come forward for this noble cause and said the role of NGOs and private practitioners is crucial for achieving better results in preventable vision impairment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/eye-donation-centres-setup-in-21-haryana-districts/story-wytldCxLjUkqKoxQLzy0aJ.html
22-05-2020||Noida||New corona cases spike after lockdown relaxations in Greater Noida||Greater Noida is again witnessing a spike in novel coronavirus cases after relaxations in lockdown given by the government, with 39 cases reported between May 1 and 20.A total of 18 new coronavirus cases were reported in Greater Noida between May 1 and 10, five between May 11 and 17, and as many as 17 between May 18 and 21.Coronavirus cases also continue to increase in Gautam Buddh Nagar in Uttar Pradesh, with the total number so far reaching 302. “Whenever the lockdown is relaxed, people will gather and lead to more coronavirus cases. We will have to live with this virus. The coronavirus will come whenever 50-60 people gather anywhere,” said a health professional posted in Government Institute of Medical Sciences in Greater Noida.He said that earlier one or two new cases were reported, but ever since the companies have resumed operations in Greater Noida, more cases are coming up,” said the doctor.On May 20, District Magistrate Suhas LY issued a list, as per which 63 containment zones were set up, including 17 in category one and 7 in category 2 in Greater Noida. Category one is an area where a coronavirus case has been reported, whereafter authorities launch relief operation in 250 metre radius from the patient’s house. Category two area contains more than one corona cases and a health survey is done in a radius of half a km from each patient’s house.Of the 302 cases in Gautam Buddh Nagar, 209 have been cured and discharged from hospitals. Five people have died so far while 88 patients are at present undergoing treatment.During the lockdown 4.0, the district authorities have allowed opening of shops on the odd-even formula.As for various colleges and universities in Greater Noida, authorities directed them to reopen with 33 per cent staff. District authorities said that they do not need passes for movement, but can show their organisational ID cards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/new-corona-cases-spike-after-lockdown-relaxations-in-greater-noida/story-YOBu5sbxlfKh52UFXybg4K.html
22-05-2020||City||Haryana roadways resumes inter-district bus services from Dadri||The Haryana roadways resumed inter-district bus services from Dadri to Jhajjar depot on Friday.Dadri depot general manager for Haryana roadways, Dhanraj Kundu, said an inter-district bus ferried 18 passengers from Dadri to Jhajjar.“Bus services for Rohtak, Loharu, Bhiwani and Narnaul stations from Dadri depot will start from Saturday. We have asked people to give us an estimate of 15 passengers who want to commute daily on any local route so that we can resume bus services on those routes too,” Kundu said.“The conductors will issue tickets to passengers on local and inter district routes. However, for long routes, passengers will have to buy the ticket online,” he said.He said in order to maintain social distancing, they are not allowed to ferry more than 30 passengers in the 52-seater buses. Passengers will be allowed to sit in a bus only after thermal screening.“We have directed the drivers and conductors to ensure that passengers wear masks and sanitise their hands before boarding the bus,” Kundu added.Intra-district bus services to resume in JhajjarThe Jhajjar administration has given a green signal to ply Haryana roadways buses on 10 routes within the district from Saturday. Jhajjar depot general manager, NK Garg said the decision was taken after 89 out of 91 Covid-19 patients in the district were discharged from the hospital.“We have sent the request to other depots to resume inter-district bus services too,” he added. A transport official from Dadri said they will start accessing daily medical report of their staff to prevent the spread of virus. “We have also decided to provide sanitized places for drivers and conductors from other districts,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-roadways-resumes-inter-district-bus-services-from-dadri/story-86WrCCgCEBGARLM4KQFMTO.html
22-05-2020||City||Now, all shops in Panchkula can resume business||Revising its lockdown guidelines, the Panchkula administration on Friday allowed opening of sector markets from 9am to 6pm from Saturday. The markets will function from Tuesday to Sunday and remain closed on Monday.Earlier, shops were permitted to open trade wise on alternate days. The administration has also allowed home delivery of cooked food by restaurants, and opening of bakeries and sweets shops, but dine-in services at any eatery are not allowed. Barbers, spas and salons will continue to remain closed till further orders. The latest relaxations came after all districts in Haryana were declared orange zones. Local traders had also been seeking more relaxations, especially after most markets in Mohali and Chandigarh had reopened. Panchkula deputy commissioner Mukesh Ahuja said shopkeepers must ensure social distancing in their shops. In case of booths, customers should not be allowed inside the shop and goods should be delivered from outside through barricading. Violation of these orders will invite legal action.REHRI MARKET SHOPSThe administration has, however, placed some curbs on congested rehri markets.For instance, the rehri markets in Sectors 7, 9, 11 and 17, and shops in other areas, including Dailly, Abhaypur, Haripur, Maheshpur and Budhanpur will open only on alternate days and remain closed on Monday. Shops facing northern and eastern sides will open on Wednesday, Friday and Sunday, and those facing southern and western sides on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. However, all shops dealing with essential commodities are allowed to remain open on all days between 7am and 6.30pm. In rural areas, shops will be open from 8am to 6pm on all days. All standalone (single shops), neighbourhood (colony) shops and shops in residential areas will also remain open on all days.There is also no change as far as Kalka and Pinjore are concerned. As decided earlier, all shops facing eastern and northern sides will remain open from 9am to 2pm on all days, except Monday. Those facing western and southern sides will remain open every day from 1pm to 6pm, except Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/now-all-shops-in-panchkula-can-resume-business/story-xB9Di164ZaWfweIM8Bs3yO.html
22-05-2020||City||J&K admn to give one-time financial aid to private school teachers||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Friday decided to provide one-time financial assistance to private school teachers who have been impacted due to coronavirus enforced lockdown. The funds will be provided out of the State Disaster Relief Fund.The move comes two weeks after the private school teachers’ body wrote to J&K Lieutenant Governor G C Murmu requesting financial assistance. The administration has directed the J&K education department to prepare a list of teachers requiring financial aid. An order issued by the administration stated that the assistance may be provided on details of the fee charged by such schools. The order further stated that the detailed information in this regard shall reach the department within a weeks’ time.The letter submitted to the L-G by Kashmir private schools association president G N Var reads “Schools have been badly hit since August 5 after the abrogation of Article 370 and in the present circumstances most schools are on the verge of shutting down due to financial crunch resulting in irreparable loss to the society at large”.Var said that 65,000 teachers and the allied staff were currently affected in J&K. “There are no regular salaries for all the teachers. Only a few schools are paying wages to their staff while the remaining are suffering,” he said adding that the administration must also consider the non-teaching staff for relief.The education department had last week urged all private schools to defer fee collections from students in view of nationwide lockdown.Requesting anonymity, a principal from a private school in the city said that he took a loan of ₹70 lakh to pay the salaries of the teaching staff.“I have not received my salary since the lockdown was enforced. I am unable to feed my family as all my savings have exhausted,” said a private school teacher from Srinagar.However, the administration has decided to provide one-time financial aid to teachers after the L-G held a review meeting with the officials of the education department recently. Principal secretary to the government (higher education department) Asgar Hassan Samoon said, “We may provide funds to the needy teachers from L-G or labour funds.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-admn-to-give-one-time-financial-aid-to-private-school-teachers/story-Ps3hsm1LkiqJeQJ5QERfrN.html
22-05-2020||Mumbai||Fishing trip ends in tragedy as man drowns in Nallasopara pond, while 2 others go missing||A man drowned, while two others – including a 15-year-old boy – are missing, after they dived into a 30-feet temple pond at Nilemore village in Nallasopara on Friday. Around 11am, Nallasopara resident Shanu Shinwar, 35, entered the pond to catch fish. His son Durvesh, and neighbour Sumedh Khandare, 25, waited for him on the banks. When the duo was unable to spot Shinwar after a while, they dived into the water to search for him. When the two did not come out of the pond either, some locals called the fire brigade, an eyewitness said. Fire brigade personnel then conducted rescue operations and fished out one body and sent it for post-mortem to Nallasopara Primary Health Centre, a personnel said. As the body was decomposed, they could not identify if it was Shinwar or Khandare’s.“We have deployed divers to look for the other two missing persons, as we presume that they may be stuck somewhere in a corner of the pond. We are using submersible pumps to drain the water so that we can trace them,” the fire brigade personnel said.Meanwhile, the Nallasopara police have registered a case of accidental death and are probing further. The police said that despite warning the locals and placing barricades around the pond, the locals continue to enter the pond.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fishing-trip-ends-in-tragedy-as-man-drowns-in-nallasopara-pond-while-2-others-go-missing/story-ajDNN5xwtn3qjtPfwgeDeI.html
22-05-2020||Mumbai||ICSE, ISC exam scheduled between July 1 and 14||The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) has announced the revised schedules for the remaining papers of ICSE (Class 10) and ISC (Class 12) exams on Friday.While ICSE exams would be conducted between July 2 and 12, ISC exams would be held between July 1 and 14. The council has asked schools to ensure that social distancing norms are followed during the examinations. Candidates have also been asked to wear gloves, face masks and carry hand sanitisers to the examination centre. Staggered entry and exit timings are also advised to avoid overcrowding in and outside centres.The board had re-scheduled papers between March 19 and March 31, 2020. While six papers of ISC have been rescheduled, eight papers of ICSE have been pushed further.Parents in the city said that they were worried as many places are still seeing a surge in cases every day. “In red zones, there is a huge risk for students to venture out. Even though the exams are scheduled two months from now, we don’t know what the situation would be then. We hope that the state government takes note of these concerns and comes up with a solution,” said the parent of an ICSE student.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/icse-isc-exam-scheduled-between-july-1-and-14/story-sGCXjkruVMPeWuiLHiZPvK.html
22-05-2020||Mumbai||State edu dept launches free career counselling portal for students||The state education department, on Friday launched an online portal for career counselling for Class 9 to 12 students under the state board. The portal, mahacareerportal.com would host information about 556 courses and 21,000 institutes of higher education which students can access free. The portal was launched by state education minister Varsha Gaikwad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-edu-dept-launches-free-career-counselling-portal-for-students/story-I8Cf8wuDyWEyaUTRciS6nO.html
22-05-2020||City||‘Scars society has given will take lifetime to heal’||Winning the battle against coronavirus was tough, but the road to recovery has been tougher for Himachal Pradesh’s Patient Zero.A native of Shahpur in Kangra district, the 32-year-old chef who worked at a Singapore hotel is not comfortable with even sharing his name. “I was not afraid of the infection. It’s the scars that society has given to my family and me that will take a lifetime to heal,” he says.He was among the first two Covid-19 cases reported in the state on March 20.He returned home on March 18 and voluntarily went for a checkup the next day. His test report confirmed he was positive on March 20.“I knew coronavirus can infect anyone irrespective of age or health. Soon after arrival, I volunteered to go for a check-up. I did not want to expose others to the risk,” he says.DETERMINED TO DEFEAT VIRUSHe admits he was shaken initially. “I could not have let this invisible enemy overpower me. I was determined to defeat it,” he says.He strictly followed the doctors’ advice and was discharged from hospital on March 29, after he tested negative twice. A bigger battle awaited him.On his return home, his family faced a social boycott by villagers. “Shopkeepers would not sell us anything. It hurts when your own people do this to you. I couldn’t bear the stress,” he says.The situation came to such a pass that he had to seek help from the district authorities. It was after Kangra sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Jatin Lal visited and honoured him for fighting Covid-19 that public perception started changing.“Things have improved but I still find people staring at me or exchanging shifty glances when I go to the market. These are people who were once close,” he says.HOME-BOUND AFTER BITTER EXPERIENCE“Don’t fear the virus. It can be defeated with willpower. Those infected are not criminals. All they need is empathy,” he says.He spends most of his time at home, looking after his pregnant wife and elderly parents. He is uncertain about returning to his job in Singapore but looks forward to better days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/scars-society-has-given-will-take-lifetime-to-heal/story-LWT6vOPlHO4XxMULhI9ERL.html
22-05-2020||City||Tewari lauds Mohali admn for Covid-free status||“Beating coronavirus from a century to a naught is a commendable journey,” said Anandpur Sahib member of Parliament Manish Tewari while lauding deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan on steering the district towards corona-free status. As of May 21, 102 of the total 105 positive patients in the district have defeated the virus, while three succumbed to it.Visiting the District Administrative Complex in Sector 76 on Friday, Tewari enquired about the strategies adopted against Covid-19. He asked Dayalan to share the best practices with his counterparts in other districts to help the state’s recovery rate accelerate.He gave Rs 25 lakh from the MPLADS funds to the district administration to carry on the combat against Covid-19. He was informed that the amount will be utilised for acquiring an Advanced Life Support (ALS) ambulance for the district.Meanwhile, Dayalan raised the concerns of frontline warriors. Not only are they feeling overwhelmed due to enormous strain at work, but also face the fear of bringing the virus home to their families, he said.Dayalan said it was necessary work out a way to boost their morale and reward their efforts for sustained performance in times of crisis.Pawan Dewan, chairman, Punjab Large Industrial Development Board and additional deputy commissioner Ashika Jain were also present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tewari-felicitates-mohali-admn-for-covid-free-status/story-JrwTbebmxHVzTDJQnw0ajN.html
22-05-2020||Mumbai||SpiceJet opens booking for domestic flights||No-frills carrier SpiceJet on Friday announced the opening of booking for its domestic flights as it resumes operations with a little over 200 daily flights to 41 destinations after a hiatus of almost two months. Operations of commercial passenger flights were suspended from March 25 in the wake of COVID-19 and subsequent lockdown.The government on Thursday allowed airlines to operate passenger flights from May 25. Spicejet in a release said that to start with, the airline will operate flights to 41 domestic destinations operating an average 204 daily and 1,431 weekly flights with a slew of in-flight and on-ground modifications in line with the global best practices and government SOPs to minimise human contact and ensure safe travel for its passengers.  “I am happy to announce the resumption of our passenger operations from May 25 after a two month-long lockdown-imposed hiatus. We will strictly adhere to social distancing norms and SOPs laid down by the Government. Flying was and remains the safest mode of public transport, “ said Ajay Singh, Chairman and Managing Director, SpiceJet.   Prior to the suspension of all commercial passenger service on March 25, SpiceJet had been operating over 600 daily flights to 54 domestic and nine overseas destinations. These flights included 49 daily services on the Udan routes. The airline said it has implemented cleaning procedures on all its aircraft in addition to disinfecting customer touch points and surfaces before every flight. Stating that all of its aircraft now have synthetic leather seats, it claimed these non-porous seats don’t allow the virus (COVID-19) to penetrate inside them and can be easily wiped off compared to standard fabric seats. It also said that crew members and ground services personnel will undergo a detailed health check-up and will be wearing protective gears, adding the airline has decided to temporarily suspend food and beverage services on all its flights. SpiceJet will reduce the number of people in its airport coaches by 50 per cent and has made web check-in mandatory thereby avoiding queues at airports as part of the social distancing norms, it said.  Besides, passengers will be allowed only one hand baggage and one check-in luggage (not more than 20 kg) which will have to be added during the web check-in process. Passengers will be encouraged to self-scan boarding passes and can also travel with their mobile boarding passes, SpiceJet added. Among other safety measures, wearing a mask and downloading the Aarogya Setu App will be mandatory for passengers while a temperature check will be done before entering the terminal building and only passengers with a green status on the Aarogya Setu App will be allowed, it said.  According to the release, passengers are advised to arrive at least three hours prior to departure as the check-in and luggage drop counters will be closed 60 minutes before the departure time and boarding gates will close 20 mins before departure time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/spicejet-opens-booking-for-domestic-flights/story-r0sFOR5ush2hdYf3u5qU0I.html
22-05-2020||City||Surjewala slams BJP-JJP govt in Haryana for imposing curbs on paddy cultivation||Congress leader Randeep Surjewala on Friday slammed the BJP-JJP government in Haryana for imposing curbs on paddy cultivation in the state and claimed that it will deprive farmers from cultivating the crop in about 4.5 lakh acres of land.Surjewala, who along with three other party leaders staged a protest at Kurukshetra’s Shahbad, demanded immediate withdrawal of the order under which farmers have been asked to diversify at least 50% of their last-year cultivated paddy area by growing alternate crops in eight blocks of the state including Ratia, Siwan, Pipli, Shahbad, Babain, Ismailabad, Guhla and Sirsa.“How can you prevent farmers from cultivating paddy on their own land and threaten to punish them by denying MSP for paddy and other due benefits in case they still choose to grow this crop,” he said.Surjewala said the Khattar-Chautala government is punishing farmers of northern Haryana in guise of the ‘Jal Hi Jeevan Hai’ scheme. “The BJP-JJP government’s order to ban paddy cultivation in several blocks of the state is not acceptable to the farmers,” he added.He said all ministers, MP and MLAs should oppose the order of the state government and if they cannot protect farmers, rice millers and traders, then they have lost the moral right as people’s representative and should tender their resignation.Surjewala alleged that the crop diversification scheme by the Khattar government was a conspiracy to eventually stop the procurement of paddy at Minimum Support Price (MSP) by discouraging a large number of farmers from cultivating the crop.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/surjewala-slams-bjp-jjp-govt-in-haryana-for-imposing-curbs-on-paddy-cultivation/story-mPACLWQZKCPkJMexP1oDoJ.html
22-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s Aadhaar Seva Kendra reopens||City’s Aadhaar Seva Kendra will resume its services on Saturday. Residents need to book an appointment at https://bit.ly/2TunHDo or on the mAadhaar app before visiting the centre at its new location - SCO 57-59, Sector 17-A, a release from the Chandigarh Regional Office of the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) said. The centre will function on all seven days of the week from 9.30am to 5pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-aadhaar-seva-kendra-reopens/story-ZJLvbdhgB3rwu846kLPdYO.html
22-05-2020||Patna||Use mid-day meal food grains to feed people in quarantine centres: Bihar govt to schools||The Bihar Education Department has written a letter to all District Magistrates and District Education Officers stating that the food grains in schools meant for the mid-day meal scheme are to be used for preparing food for people housed in the quarantine centres.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe order is for several government and government-aided schools that are being used as quarantine centers in the wake of coronavirus outbreak.In the letter, RK Mahajan, Additional Chief Secretary, Bihar Education Department stated that the mid-day meal scheme is not active due to the lockdown and the district administration will provide food grains to schools once they reopen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/use-mid-day-meal-food-grains-to-feed-people-in-quarantine-centres-bihar-govt-to-schools/story-yp4sGD57CdtBinm24BwZ9K.html
22-05-2020||Delhi||Yatra.com to provide free bus service for 3,500 UP migrants in Delhi, Gurugram||Online travel solutions provider Yatra.com on Friday said it has partnered with the administrations of Delhi and Gurugram for ferrying over 3,500 migrants to various parts of Uttar Pradesh “free of cost”.  Starting May 22, the bus service will operate to multiple destinations in Uttar Pradesh, amidst nationwide lockdown triggered by the pandemic, Yatra.com said in a release. “Yatra.com has partnered with the Delhi and Gurugram Administration to provide free bus services for migrant workers in the city,” the release stated. Under the tie-up, the online travel firm is currently providing 150 buses, which will operate from different transit points in Delhi and Gurugram to various places in Uttar Pradesh over the next few days with plans to safely ferry over 3,500 migrant workers, it said.  “We have provided the Delhi and Gurugram Administration with up to 150 buses to transport migrant laborers to their hometown. This is a complex problem of immense magnitude which despite their best efforts the local administrations cannot solve on their own, said Dhruv Shringi, Co-founder and CEO, Yatra.com.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/yatra-com-to-provide-free-bus-service-for-3-500-up-migrants-in-delhi-gurugram/story-BtfXUrbeYkrDUWYcYzCwrM.html
22-05-2020||Mumbai||Sheena Bora murder: CBI objects Sanjeev Khanna’s plea for interim bail||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) objected to the plea of Sanjeev Khanna, one of the alleged accused in the Sheena Bora case, for interim bail. The hearing on the plea is now scheduled on June 3.Khanna, one of alleged accused in Sheena Bora murder case and former husband of Indrani Mukerjea had approached the special court for interim bail on May 14 on the ground of spread of Covid-19 in jail. He has pleaded that the accused booked for murder does not fall under the category of the prisoners who cannot be released from jail as recommended by the high-power committee of Bombay high court.The CBI in its objection on Friday said that though the minutes of high-power committee has not included murder charges in the list of charges for which the bail cannot be granted, the court has to decide the plea on the merits. The CBI claimed that the prosecution has submitted enough evidence against Khanna to prove his role in the alleged murder of Sheena and subsequent act of destruction of her body and other evidence.After accepting the plea, the hearing of the plea is now scheduled before the special CBI judge who has been hearing the trial of Sheena Bora murder case.According to the prosecution, Sheena was killed on April 24, 2012, by Indrani, her former husband Sanjeev Khanna, and driver Shyamwar Rai, who is now a prosecution witness and approver in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sheena-bora-murder-cbi-objects-sanjeev-khanna-s-plea-for-interim-bail/story-MYVOklMiOJL2Xm2jBIbWQM.html
22-05-2020||Lucknow||UP govt clears Rs 36 lakh bill sent by Rajasthan govt for return of students from Kota||A day after the Congress-led Rajasthan government sent a bill of over Rs 36 lakh for facilitating the return of stranded students of Uttar Pradesh from Kota, the Yogi Adityanath government cleared the dues on Friday, an official said.Amid the controversy over Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi’s offer to provide 1,000 buses to ferry migrant labourers in Uttar Pradesh, the Rajasthan government had on Thursday sent a bill of Rs 36.36 lakh for sending Kota students back home in Uttar Pradesh amid the lockdown.“In mid-April, the Uttar Pradesh government had decided to bring students of UP stranded in Kota due to lockdown back home. Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) buses were deployed for bringing them back, but the number of students there was more than our estimate and we needed additional buses,” UPSRTC Managing Director Raj Shekhar said.“The buses of Rajasthan Roadways available in Kota were used for ferrying students till Agra and Mathura. The bill for the same was raised by the Rajasthan Roadways which has been cleared by the UPSRTC,” he said.UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s media advisor Mritunjay Kumar had strongly condemned the demand of Rs 36 lakh, saying it only showed the “inhuman face” of the Rajasthan government.In April, thousands of students from Uttar Pradesh who were preparing for various competitive examinations in the coaching hub of Kota in Rajasthan were brought back to their homes in buses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-govt-clears-rs-36-lakh-bill-sent-by-rajasthan-govt-for-return-of-students-from-kota/story-vuMPWrFqgATz4UUuco3XhO.html
22-05-2020||Mumbai||State biodiversity board dysfunctional without chairman, non-official members, says forest minister||The nodal body to promote, plan, and implement biodiversity conservation issues in Maharashtra has been dysfunctional for the past four months. The Maharashtra State Biodiversity Board (MSBB) has been functioning without a chairman and non-official members and has major decisions regarding the declaration of biodiversity heritage sites (BHS) across the state pending. The details were revealed on the International Day for Biological Diversity (May 22) proclaimed by the United Nations to increase awareness on biodiversity issues.Earlier this week, HT reported that the state board for wildlife (SBWL) had not met in 17 months resulting in key development projects, wildlife mitigation measures, and other crucial decisions being stalled.State forest minister Sanjay Rathod said he was aware about the matter. “We will be taking up the issue of both boards before the chief minister soon as he is the final authority to sanction their reconstitution. These are crucial bodies that enhance environment protection, but owing to the Covid-19 pandemic there has been a delay,” he said.Established under the Biological Diversity Act, 2002, the state biodiversity boards advise respective states on the status of biological resources, overlook the functioning of biodiversity management committees at the municipal or panchayat level, grant approvals for commercial use of resources, and identify biodiversity heritage sites based on proposals and submit them for final declaration to the Centre. State boards function under the larger ambit of the National Biodiversity Authority under the Union environment ministry.The tenure of the last board ended in September 2019, while the previous chairman retired during the last week of January. On January 30, MSBB official members from the forest department had published advertisements calling for applications for the appointment of chairperson and non-official members. “The application submissions were received by our Nagpur office by March 2 and the documents are currently pending with them,” said Vikas Jagtap, officer-in-charge, MSBB. Senior forest officials of the board, based out of Nagpur, refused to comment on the matter.“MSBB is an extremely important body that the state requires, especially to assess the ecological services, protection of water resources, and climate stability among other factors,” said Vilas Bardekar, former chairman, MSBB.Meanwhile, final declaration of five biodiversity heritage sites in Maharashtra — Anjarle and Velas beaches in Ratnagiri district, Ganeshkhind in Pune, Landorkhori Reserve Forest in Jalgaon, and Wardham in Sironcha, Gadchiroli — have been pending since 2018. The first and the only BHS in Maharashtra at present is the six-hectare forest patch, Glory of Allapalli, Gadchiroli. It was notified in July 2014. “While final documentation for some sites is pending, a few proposals are awaiting final nod from the Centre,” said a senior state government official.Declared and Proposed Biodiversity Heritage Sites in StateBiodiversity heritage sites are locations with biological, ethnic and historical value that have fragile ecosystems. To strengthen biodiversity conservation, these areas are marked as heritage sites under the Biological Diversity Act, 2002.1. Glory of Allapalli, GadchiroliStatus: Declared (2014)Area: 6 hectareReason: Preserved as a natural forest having biological and historical value2. Velas Beach, RatnagiriStatus: Proposed (2017)Area: 0.98 hectareReason: Officially declared as a turtle nesting site along the west coast3. Anjarle Beach, RantangriStatus: Proposed (2017)Area: 0.74 hectareReason: Turtle nesting site4. Ganeshkind Garden, PuneStatus: Proposed (2017)Area: 58.6 hectareReason: Botanical garden started in 1873 by GM Woodrow of East India Company. Peshwas planted the first mango tree that still exists in the garden.5. Landorkhori Reserve Forest, JalgaonStatus: Proposed (2018)Area: 266 hectareReason: Reserved forest with 190 species of birds and 24 mammal species6. Wardham in Sironcha, GadchiroliStatus: Proposed (2018)Area: 8 hectareReason: Home to at least 150-million-year-old fossils(Source: MSBB)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-biodiversity-board-dysfunctional-without-chairman-non-official-members-says-forest-minister/story-2dh1vTIJHuouUeVm9H9icL.html
22-05-2020||Chandigarh||Hill stations heat up in Himachal||With the summers here, popular hill stations in Himachal have recorded a two degree Celsius increase in their maximum temperatures, India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials said on Friday.Himachal meteorological department director Manmohan Singh said the weather had primarily stayed dry throughout the state during the last 24 hours.“The maximum temperatures are likely to increase in the coming days and may touch 40°C in the lower hills of the state,” said Singh. At 42.8°C, Una recorded the maximum temperature in the state.Shimla, the state’s capital, recorded a maximum temperature of 28°C, while Manali, Dharamshala and Dalhousie recorded 28.4°C, 29.6°C and 23.4°C temperatures, respectively. Kufri, near Shimla, recorded a maximum temperature of 20.2°C.The maximum temperatures in Hamirpur, Bilaspur, Solan and Nahan were 37.8°C, 38°C, 34.5°C and 35.6°C, respectively.Keylong in Lahaul-Spiti district recorded a 20.3°C maximum temperature, while Kalpa in Kinnaur district recorded a maximum temperature of 25.6°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hill-stations-heat-up-in-himachal/story-F3dmFnXhi8nXt7bqMOko0J.html
22-05-2020||Indore||95-year-old woman recovers from Covid-19 in Indore||A 95-year-old woman, who had tested Covid-19 positive in Indore, has recovered from the infection and discharged from a city-based hospital, officials said on Friday.This comes a fortnight after the woman’s 70-year-old son died due to suspected coronavirus infection.The officials have termed her recovery as the triumph of her strong will power.According to the officials, the 95-year-old woman was admitted to a private hospital in the city on May 10 after testing Covid-19 positive. She was discharged on Thursday (May 21) as she recovered after undergoing treatment for 11 days.“The elderly woman was facing a lot of difficulty to move around due to her knee problems. Her 70-year-old son had died a few days ago. But due to her strong will and the treatment, the elderly patient finally recovered and returned home,” they said.The elderly woman along with five members of her family were screened for Covid-19 and hospitalised after testing positive.Talking to PTI, a close relative of the nonagenarian woman said that her 70-year-old son had died on May 4.“He had Covid-19 like symptoms, including fever and cough. However, even before his samples could be taken for testing, his condition suddenly deteriorated and he died during the treatment at a hospital,” the woman relative said.“After his death, we got suspicious and contacted the government officials for Covid-19 tests of our family of 16 members. The tests confirmed that six people from the family, including the 95-year-old woman and 10-year-old twins- a brother-sister duo, wereinfected,” she said.According to her, over the last four days, five members of the family, including the elderly woman, have returned home after recovery, while one patient is still undergoing treatment.The woman relative and some other members of the family were sent to an isolation centre on May 8. However, they were not found Covid-19 infected.“We are deeply saddened by the demise of a senior member of our family. But by the grace of god, the lives of others in the family were saved due to timely Covid-19 tests,” she said.Indore is one of the worst-hit districts in the country in terms of the spread of coronavirus.On Friday, the number of Covid-19 patients increased to 2,850 in the district. Of these, 109 patients have died, while 1,280 people have recovered from the epidemic after treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/indore/95-year-old-woman-recovers-from-covid-19-in-indore/story-NL1giruLwWv9JakjJaYDpM.html
22-05-2020||City||Toddler burnt alive in Shimla house blaze||A two-year-old toddler of a Nepalese man was burnt alive after a fire broke out in a makeshift house near Dhalli, Shimla. The deceased has been identified as Nikhil Bahadur, son of Shant Bahadur. Shant Bahadur and his wife work as labourers in Shimla and have six children, including the deceased. The mishap took place on Thursday night when the couple was not at home and the fire broke out in the house. All other children escaped but the toddler, who was sleeping in the house, was burnt.Police and fire tenders reached the spot and put out the fire. The infant was rushed to Indira Gandhi Medical College, Shimla, but was declared brought dead.Shimla superintendent of police (SP) Omapati Jamwal confirmed the report and said the police were conducting investigation and the cause of fire is yet to be ascertained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/toddler-burnt-alive-in-shimla-house-blaze/story-b6jFW7dv0kGab2phrvYYnI.html
22-05-2020||City||One-year-old boy drowns in water tank in Dadri, couple booked||A one-year-old boy died after drowning in a water tank at Dadri’s Sonf village on Thursday, police said.The incident took place at around 8:00pm when the boy identified as Rakshit was playing outside a plot of land owned by his family.In his complaint , the boy’s grandfather Satbir said his wife Rajli had gone to the plot along with their grandson at around 7.45pm. “Rakshit went missing from the main gate when my wife was inside. We started looking around but could not find him. At last, my elder son Jai Bhagwan went to our neighbour Sombir’s house and found the child drowned in the water tank there,” he said. Satbir alleged that their neighbour Sombir and his wife Rajo had kidnapped his grandson and drowned him in the water tank due to some old enmity.Bond Kalan sub-inspector Ram Avtar said Sombir and his wife Rajo have been booked under Sections 302(murder) and 364 (kidnapping for ransom) of the IPC.“A manhunt has been launched to nab the couple,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/one-year-old-boy-drowns-in-water-tank-in-dadri-couple-booked/story-uRPaRFqPd978BOMYr2pBNO.html
22-05-2020||Mumbai||Bombay high court upholds professor, clerk’s dismissal, says hearsay evidence acceptable in departmental inquiry||There is no prohibition on using “reliable and acceptable” hearsay as evidence in departmental proceedings against erring employees, the Bombay high court (HC) said on Tuesday, while upholding the dismissal of a professor and a library clerk of a Dombivli college.The professor and the clerk had moved HC after the University and College Tribunal, Mumbai, on January 27, 2016, upheld their dismissal from service in July 2013. They were dismissed after the inquiry officer found them guilty of insubordination, dereliction of duty, and suspected intimate relations between the two.However, the petitioners contended that they were actively raising grievances of the employees of the college, which did not go down well with the institute’s management. They further claimed that the action taken against them was out of the vindictive attitude of the college management and had also challenged the departmental action against them as well as the order of the University and College Tribunal on various grounds.Justice CV Bhadang, however, found no substance in their challenge, and said their dismissal was based on certain technical issues of a peripheral nature and that there was no serious challenge to the findings of fact recorded by the inquiry officer.The judge also rejected their arguments that a report prepared by a private detective – employed by the clerk’s husband – could not have been used as evidence against them in the departmental proceedings. They also claimed that the report was nothing but hearsay, as the author of the report – the private detective – was not examined as a witness against them.Justice Bhadang said it is now well settled that strict rules of evidence do not apply to a departmental inquiry and there is no prohibition even on acting on hearsay evidence in a given case, if it is found to be reliable and acceptable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-high-court-upholds-professor-clerk-s-dismissal-says-hearsay-evidence-acceptable-in-departmental-inquiry/story-oOHVeAaeQz6KDXIv3029hM.html
22-05-2020||Chandigarh||Social distancing thrown to the wind as 5,000 vie for 90 posts of ward attendants in Ludhiana||Social distancing norms went for a toss when around 5,000 people gathered at the civil surgeon’s office on Friday to apply for 90 posts of ward attendants.The volunteers are being recruited as daily wagers to meet staff shortage at the government hospital amid the Covid-19 crises. They will be paid Rs 750 a day.On Thursday, too, a large number of women had thronged the hospital to apply for the post of nurse. Hoping to avoid a repeat, this time, the hospital had introduced a token system, but to no avail. The eager job aspirants jostled against each other as they queued up for the walk-in interview.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said, “We made announcements asking people to maintain distance. We called the police and also introduced the token system. What else can we do? People just won’t listen.” He said applicants from other districts also visited the city to file their application, which compounded the problem.Meanwhile, the rising temperature took a toll on four applicants who fell unconscious while standing in the queue. Fortunately, they were revived and none of them required hospitalisation. They were offered juice and sent back home. GRADUATES, POSTGRADUATES APPLY Several graduates and postgraduates also applied for the post. They said the prolonged lockdown had rendered them jobless. “I was working as a salesman in Chaura Bazaar but lost my job due to the lockdown. I have to do something to earn a living. One of my friends told me the administration was hiring youngsters at daily wage so I decided to apply,” said Gurpreet Singh, while standing in queue.Butta Singh, who was working in a cloth manufacturing unit located at Bahadurke Road, also said the COVID-19 crisis had rendered him jobless.“I am a graduate so hopefully they will prefer my application over others,” said Butta Singh.The civil surgeon office is located near Session Chowk, which houses the residents several judicial officers, bureaucrats and police officials, including commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/social-distancing-thrown-to-the-wind-as-5-000-vie-for-post-of-ward-attendant-in-ludhiana/story-juJCLOaLCNLZHpTdXfHDNP.html
22-05-2020||Pune||IISER Pune’s Covid-19 testing centre begins operations||With the help of volunteers from within the IISER (Indian Institute of Science, Education and Research) Pune community, including students, staff and faculty members; and led by the institute’s action committee on Covid-19, IISER Pune’s Covid-19 testing centre commenced testing on May 21.After a review of the facility, workflow, safety guidelines, and SOPs by experts from the NIV (National Institute of Virology), and mentor institute, AFMC (Armed Forces Medical College), the ICMR (Indian Council for Medical Research) approved the testing centre.IISER Pune director, Prof Jayant Udgaonkar, said, “Realising the need for more Covid-19 testing in Pune, a few faculty members came together to set up a testing facility that meets all the in-house and ICMR safety and other procedural requirements. Getting the testing facility ready quickly is a testament to their commitment and effort put in. The advice and help of the NIV and AFMC was invaluable. The testing facility is now being run with volunteers who have been properly trained.”Prof Anjan Banerjee, nodal officer for the facility, said that the IISER Pune action committee has considered the utmost safety measures and complied with all guidelines, as well as directives suggested by the institute’s bio-safety committee. The team discussed the workflow thoroughly with scientists from NIV and NCCS before, and while, establishing the centre on the campus. The team is working on efficient patient data processing to facilitate reporting.During the days leading up to the commencement of the centre’s activities, the team has arranged for multiple mock drills and volunteer training sessions with help from NIV officials.Throat and nasal swab samples are expected to arrive at the centre everyday from government hospitals, which will be tested for the presence of Sars-Cov-2 virus causing Covid-19, using an ICMR approved kit. “With the setting up of this centre, IISER Pune hopes to contribute to the much-needed expansion of the testing capability in the country for COVID-19,” said Banerjee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/iiser-pune-s-covid-19-testing-centre-begins-operations/story-oQil8q9M56TQohkPUHTcyH.html
22-05-2020||Pune||Pune: Major fire at chemical factory; no casualty||A major fire broke out at a chemical manufacturing unit in Pune district on Friday morning, officials said.No casualty was reported in the incident as the plant, located in Kurkumbh MIDC on Pune-Solapur Road, was closed, a fire brigade official said.“The blaze erupted around 10.30 am. Water tankers were rushed to the site and the fire was doused. Cooling operation is underway now,” the official said.He added that drums containing acetone and ethanol were kept at the plant.“As the fire spread, those drums caught fire and exploded. A blanket of thick black smoke engulfed the area after the blaze. Nobody was injured in the incident as the plant was shut,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-major-fire-at-chemical-factory-no-casualty/story-YqvEKZCJfb8vkilUFSfsJJ.html
22-05-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana sees 3-fold increase in Coronavirus cases during May, majority being from NCR||Haryana has recorded a three-fold increase in coronavirus cases this month, majority of them being reported from four districts falling in the National Capital Region.The cases have jumped from 339 as on April 30 to 1,031 on May 21. The coronavirus cases in Gurgaon, Faridabad, Sonipat and Jhajjar, which fall in the NCR, jumped from 54, 53, 25 and 24, respectively, as on April 30 to 239, 181, 150 and 91 by May 21, according to data put out by the state health department in its daily bulletins. Eleven of the 15 Covid-19 deaths which the state has reported so far took place during the month of May. On May 4, Haryana had recorded the highest single-day jump in coronavirus cases when 75 infections were reported and a day earlier the state had reported 66 infections, most of these from the NCR districts. The number of active cases in the state have gone up from 100 on April 30 to 335 on May 21. Commenting on the spurt in Covid-19 cases in the NCR, Health Minister Anil Vij said the people living in districts which are closer to Delhi have also been affected. There are a total of 12,319 coronavirus cases in the national capital, according to authorities. Haryana has maintained that several cases reported from Sonipat, Jhajjar, Gurgaon, Faridabad and even Panipat have their origins in infections emanating from the national capital, following which authorities had put strict regulation on borders with Delhi to check the spread of infection. Though essential services and movement of doctors, paramedical staff and some others as per orders of the Delhi High Court have been allowed. “We had to put strict regulations on our borders with Delhi to check the spread of infection. We have nothing against the people of Delhi, but we have to protect our own people too,” Vij said. The health minister said over three weeks ago several cases were reported in NCR districts “as infection spread in our vegetable markets in Gurgaon, Sonipat, Jhajjar and Faridabad, whose origins were from Delhi”. “I keep saying this repeatedly that more relaxations are being given but we will have to remain cautious and make changes in our daily lives as per the demand of the present situation,” he said. “Wearing masks and observing social distancing need to be followed. However, I have suggested that we should have laws which will make not wearing masks and violating social distancing norms a punishable offence,” Vij added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-sees-3-fold-increase-in-coronavirus-cases-during-may-majority-being-from-ncr/story-dzrZhH3aOET06eK5man3QI.html
22-05-2020||Bangalore||Intra-state train services after lockdown resume in Karnataka||Intra-state passenger train services resumed in the country on Friday, nearly two months after being suspended due to Covid-19 lockdown, with the operation of three trains in Karnataka, the South Western Railway said.While the Bengaluru-Belagavi triweekly superfast special was the first and left here at 8 am, a pair of daily special trains was operated between the city and Mysuru, the South Western Railway said.“First intra-state passenger train in India after March 22 started in South Western Railway. We are back to normal,” it said in a statement.The train to Mysuru left here at 9.20 am and reached the destination at 12.15 pm. In the return direction, the train from Mysuru left at 1.45 pm, it said.The passengers were allowed to board the trains with face masks while ensuring social distancing and other precautions, it said adding these trains will have stoppage at important stations.After Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa recommended resumption of intra-state services in the state, the Railways approved running of four trains - two each from Bengaluru to Belagavi and Mysuru, the statement said.“We have opened reservation counters at major stations across Bengaluru. Ticket booking can be done from these booking offices now. All are advised to ensure social distancing and wearing of mask,” it said.Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi was instrumental in resumption of trains in a graded manner in Karnataka, the railway statement said.All passenger trains were suspended across the country under the national lockdown imposed to control the spread of coronavirus across the country since March 25.Recently, railways resumed passenger train operations with 15 pairs of special trains from New Delhi to different parts of the country while 100 pairs of specials are scheduled to begin operations from June 1.Intra-state bus services have also been allowed in Karnataka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/intra-state-train-services-after-lockdown-resume-in-karnataka/story-oi7CIXuMh9RPGLFw7JrXCN.html
22-05-2020||Patna||Bihar reports 10th Covid-19 fatality; infection tally reaches 1,987||The total number of Covid-19 cases in Bihar soared to 1,987 on Thursday, when 211 people tested positive for the coronavirus, as the health department declared a 55-year-old man, who died at a hospital two days ago, as the state’s tenth fatality due to the disease.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAccording to State Epidemiologist Ragini Mishra, the deceased belonged to Khagaria district and died at the Sadar hospital in Begusarai.“His test reports came late Wednesday night, confirming he was infected with the coronavirus,” she said.The district’s health society programme convenor Shailesh Chandra said the cause of the death was cardiac arrest.The state has previously witnessed deaths of nine Covid-19 patients – two each from Patna and Vaishali and one each from Munger, East Champaran, Sitamarhi, Rohtas and Khagaria.Meanwhile, the state health department said 211 people tested positive on Thursday, raising the state’s total to 1,978.The central Bihar district of Jehanabad reported the highest 50 cases, six of them females. Two girls aged 8 years and a 10-year-old boy were the youngest patients. The district’s tally has now risen to 108.Other districts reporting a significant number of cases were Samastipur (25), Katihar (19), Rohtas and Gopalganj (17 each), Gopalganj (16), Sheikhpura (13) and Buxar and East Champaran (11 each).All the 38 districts in the state have reported Covid-19 cases and Patna, Munger, Rohtas, Jehanabad and Begusarai happen to be the worst affected, all of them having respective tallies in three digits.The number of Covid-19 patients who have been discharged, upon full recovery, from isolation wards is 593, the state health department said.More than 1,500 cases have been reported in the state since the beginning of this month, which has been attributed mainly to the large-scale influx of migrants who have been returning to Bihar in droves by “Shramik Special” trains and every other mode of transport available, many of them even on bicycles and on foot, much to the consternation of the government.Till date, 999 migrants have tested positive for Covid-19, the state health department said, adding that most infected returnees have come from Delhi (296), Maharashtra (253), Gujarat (180), Haryana (66), West Bengal (58) and Rajasthan (34).The number of samples tested so far is 55,692, an addition of more than 2,000 since the previous day. Chief Minister Nitish Kumar has been insistent upon raising the number of samples tested every day to 10,000 as Bihar braces for more arrivals of migrants.More than seven lakh migrants are currently lodged at thousands of quarantine centres set up across the state at district, block and panchayat levels, said state Information and Public Relations Department secretary Anupam Kumar.He also said that 85 special trains, carrying close to 1.40 lakh migrants, reached Bihar on the day and another 1.43 lakh are scheduled to arrive on Friday by 87 Shramik Specials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-reports-10th-covid-19-fatality-infection-tally-reaches-1-987/story-MEvWZqYsIdcvfKvMiC8bzK.html
22-05-2020||Lucknow||UP govt paid Rs 19 lakh for diesel used in bringing Kota students: Deputy CM||Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Dinesh Sharma on Friday said that Rajasthan Government demanded Rs 19 lakh for the diesel used in transporting students of Uttar Pradesh from Kota back to their home state.“Rajasthan government raised a bill of Rs 19 lakhs for diesel provided by them for Uttar Pradesh buses that were run for bringing back students from Kota, we paid the bill on May 5,” Sharma said in a press conference.The Deputy Chief Minister said the Rajasthan Government accepted their request to help in bringing back their stranded students. “They asked UP government to send buses to Rajasthan,” he added.“We estimated that there were around 10,000 students from our state stranded in Rajasthan. In April, we sent 560 buses to bring back stranded UP students in Kota. Later, we got to know that there were around 12,000 students and we had less number of buses. The Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) asked Rajasthan Roadways to provide some buses. Also, UPSRT had asked Rajasthan Roadways for fuel for the UP buses,” Sharma said.“The students said they were not being provided with proper food and stay in Rajasthan. They requested us to bring them back to Uttar Pradesh,” he added.UPSRTC buses were used to bring back stranded UP students from Kota, 94 buses of Rajasthan Roadways were also used and a bill of Rs 36 lakh was raised by Rajasthan Government for the same, said Managing Director, UP State Road Transport Corporation.“Our buses were used to bring back stranded UP students from Kota following UP Government orders. 94 buses of Rajasthan Roadways were also used. Bill of Rs. 36 lakh was raised by Rajasthan government for the same, it has been paid now,” said Raj Shekhar, Managing Director, UP State Road Transport Corporation.“A few buses of Rajasthan Roadways were used because we have assessed that around 8000 to 10,000 students would be stranded there but the number increased. A bill was then raised by Rajasthan Roadways and UP Roadways has now paid it. We received the bill at around May 5 which was paid off on May 20,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-govt-paid-rs-19-lakh-for-diesel-used-in-bringing-kota-students-deputy-cm/story-kieui5XYt0eNbngvNTl14J.html
22-05-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand records 5 new Covid-19 cases, state tally reaches 308||With five new cases of Covid-19 in Jharkhand’s Bokaro district, the total number of coronavirus cases reached 308 on Friday, said Nitin Madan Kulkarni, Jharkhand Health Secretary.“Five more people have tested positive for coronavirus in Jharkhand’s Bokaro, taking the total number of positive cases in the state to 308,” confirmed State Health Secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni.According to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, India records 63,624 active Covid-19 cases with 45,299 have been cured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-records-5-new-covid-19-cases-state-tally-reaches-308/story-hj8Umij11Xgi2q0h3rb04I.html
22-05-2020||Bangalore||Covid lockdown: Second intrastate train leaves from Bengaluru for Mysuru||The second intrastate train, Bengaluru-Mysuru Daily Special Express, left from Kanteerava Sangolli Rayanna Station here for Mysuru on Friday, said South Western Railway.The passengers including children and women were going through temperature check-up at the railway station before boarding the train.The Railway authorities applauded the passengers while the train was departing from the station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/covid-lockdown-second-intrastate-train-leaves-from-bengaluru-for-mysuru/story-P6sEQPUp0969bogdSgjWCK.html
22-05-2020||Kolkata||West Bengal suffered losses of Rs 1 lakh crore due to Cyclone Amphan, says CM Mamata Banerjee||Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday said that West Bengal has suffered losses to the tune of Rs 1 lakh crore due to cyclone Amphan that has devastated the state. After conducting an aerial survey of some of the affected areas and attending a review meeting along with Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Basirhat, she said that there is a need to work together at this hour of crisis. Banerjee said she has briefed the Prime Minister in detail about the post-cyclone situation in the state. At least 80 people have been reported killed so far in the state due to the extremely severe cyclone. Large-scale damage to infrastructure, public and private property was reported from North and South 24 Parganas, East and West Midnapore, Kolkata, Howrah and Hooghly districts. The Prime Minister has announced an advance interim assistance of Rs 1,000 crore for the state after the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/west-bengal-suffered-losses-of-rs-1-lakh-crore-due-to-cyclone-amphan-says-cm-mamata-banerjee/story-PYJDy4xEqTlwHOhTZ9sn0O.html
22-05-2020||Chandigarh||Bathinda free of Covid -19 as all 43 patients recover||With the discharge of the last two coronavirus disease (Covid -19) patients on Friday, there are no more active cases in the district. Deputy commissioner B Srinivasan said the 43 persons who had been found positive in Bathinda district had recovered. “Bathinda is free of Covid-19 for now,” he said, asking people to maintain vigil in future too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bathinda-free-of-covid-19-as-all-43-patients-recover/story-p13cDreoYSXvwJvdUqYEEM.html
22-05-2020||Gurugram||Migrants face heartbreaking queries from their children||Mohan Jha, a migrant labourer from Bihar, called his family excitedly to inform that he was finally boarding the train back home but was left numb with his five-year-old’s question -- “Is it Diwali already?” He did not have the heart to tell his son that they might not be able to celebrate the festival this year as he had no work.Jha, who worked as a construction worker in Sohna near Gurgaon, has been out of work since the lockdown was announced to contain the spread of Covid-19. Struggling for nearly two months and managing to eat at community kitchens, he was finally able to board a train this week to Muzaffarpur in Bihar.“I was trying to go back since two months. After a long wait my chance to board the train finally came. I called home in relief and my son asked if it is Diwali time already that I am coming back home. He had several questions about why is Diwali coming in summer this year. I felt heartbroken. I could not tell him that there may be no Diwali this year as there is no work,” he told PTI. “I am sure he might be expecting that I will be getting gifts for him too but I will have to disappoint him for some time now,” he added. Refusing to be clicked, Jha said, “My misery cannot be captured by any camera. All the world has to offer us is sympathy and nothing more.” Bharat Babu, who worked at the same construction site, said, “For our children, we are only home when it is Diwali or Chath time. They are too young to understand why are we making this surprise visit back home or that there may be no going back. The virus will deprive us of many Diwalis it seems”. While the government has permitted construction activities, the labourers say its not the same work for them on the ground. “The contractors say there is no raw material and government has also given extra time to finish construction so there is no hurry. If the contractors still keep us, they will have to pay our balance, so nobody wants to keep us for now,” Babu said. Sharing the same concerns, 42-year-old Manjhi Kumar said, “I have been in Gurgaon for seven years and I was planing to bring my family here this year. My son was very excited about studying in a city school but all of those plans will have to be put off now. Don’t know if I myself will come back here or will look for work there only.” “I had saved some money but now all of it is being used as there is no new income. My wife who used to work as a domestic help is also out of work. How long will we survive on the limited savings,” he added. Over 40,000 migrants left for Bihar’s Muzaffarpur, Barauni and Kishanganj on Thursday from different places in Haryana through Shramik Special Trains. According to the Haryana Chief Minister’s Office, so far over 2.38 lakh migrants have been sent home from the state. The country has been under a lockdown since March 25 to contain the spread of virus and the lockdown has now been extended till May 31. Throwing economic activities out of gear, the lockdown rendered many homeless and out of money, beginning an exodus of migrants to their home states. While trains and buses are being arranged for them, lakhs of them continue to wait for their “chance” as they struggle to make ends meet. “I had registered as soon as the trains were announced and I managed to get my chance after struggling for weeks. I had no other option than to wait,” Manjhi Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/migrants-face-heartbreaking-queries-from-their-children/story-Qs6CzpxNNPYASBa2CICBEL.html
22-05-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC upholds BMC’s power to identify cemeteries for burying Covid-19 victims||The Bombay High Court on Friday said the Brihanmumabi Municipal Corporation, BMC, had the authority to identify Muslim cemeteries for burial of Covid-19 victims and issue circular regarding it. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice SS Shinde dismissed a petition filed by four Bandra residents challenging the validity of the BMC circular of April 9, 2020, which identified some Muslim cemeteries in thickly- populated areas for burying those who died of the coronavirus disease. The petitioners had moved high court complaining that three inter-connected Muslim cemeteries identified for burial of Covid-19 victims were in the heart of Bandra west, surrounded by thickly-populated residential areas. They contended that there were high chances of spread of coronavirus from the burial ground in nearby residential areas. All the four petitioners reside in the vicinity of the private Muslim cemeteries. However, the HC bench said there was no scientific material supporting the petitioners’ apprehension that coronavirus can spread through cadavers. In their plea, the petitioners had said the BMC on March 30 decided to cremate bodies of all Covid-19 victims at the nearest crematorium, irrespective of their religion. “The said decision was taken as the burial grounds in Mumbai are in densely-populated localities, with high chances of contamination in residential areas nearby,” said their petition.They added that the subsequent circular of April 9 was, however, completely contrary to the March 30 decision and therefore prayed for an order restraining the civic body from burying any Covid-19 victim in the three Muslim cemeteries.The state government, however, maintained that burial at the cemeteries was unlikely to spread the deadly virus in the vicinity of the burial ground.“It is well established and declared by the World Health Organisation that coronavirus is not air bound and hence transmission of the virus to other people staying in the vicinity of the burial ground is highly impossible,” said the government.“The transmission cannot happen unless people in the locality come in direct contact with the dead body brought for burial or cremation,” it said, adding, “Direct contact of people staying in the locality with dead body is impossible as the dead body is wrapped in plastic by hospital staff before handing it over to the relatives for cremation.”The Mumbai civic body supported the government, stating WHO guidelines on bodies of Covid-19 patients “clearly stipulate that except in cases of haemorrhagic fevers (such as Ebola) and cholera, dead bodies are generally not infectious. Only the lungs of patients with pandemic influenza, if handled improperly during an autopsy, can be infectious. Other than the above, cadavers DO NOT transmit the disease.”The Mumbai HC bench accepted the submissions of the state and BMC, said advocate Pratap Nimbalkar, who represented the Navpada Masjid, Bandra and Santacruz Golibar Dargah Trust which manages the private Muslim cemeteries.The bench said there was no scientific material supporting the petitioner’s apprehension that coronavirus will spread through cadavers, Nimbalkar added. Besides, the bench also noted that the civic chief was legally empowered to issue the circular and identify cemeteries for burial of Muslims dying due to coronavirus infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-upholds-bmc-s-power-to-identify-cemeteries-for-burying-covid-19-victims/story-Z3OHgF49b4WH67jPO6EUDK.html
22-05-2020||Chandigarh||Flights ferrying 211 Indians stranded in Canada, Malaysia land in Amritsar||Two Air India repatriation flights carrying 211 Indian nationals stranded in Canada and Malaysia landed at the Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport here on Friday. The flight from Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, was scheduled to arrive at 11.45pm on Thursday but was delayed and landed at 2am on Friday. A total of 95 Indians availed the flight, said Palwinder Kaur, assistant commissioner of police (airport).The flight from Vancouver brought 116 people and arrived at 7am on Friday. “All evacuated persons, who mostly belong to different parts of Punjab, have been sent to their home districts where they will be quarantined either in government centres or hotels as per their choice,” Kaur said.Officials said the evacuated persons had gone to these countries on visitor visas. Some of them were tourists while others had gone to meet their relatives and friends.Another evacuation flight from Melbourne is scheduled to arrive today. A flight from Toronto is scheduled for May 23, one from Sydney on May 23, Birmingham on May 26, and Singapore on May 27.These flights are being operated under the Vande Bharat Mission launched by the government of India to evacuate Indian nationals stuck in different countries due to the lockdown imposed to contain Covid-19.AMRITSAR AIRPORT PREPARES TO RESUME DOMESTIC FLIGHTS The Amritsar airport authorities are making arrangements to ensure social distancing with domestic flights resuming from May 25.“Domestic operations are resuming on May 25 but Amritsar airport is presently engaged in repatriation flights. Once we receive the schedule, we will resume domestic operations,” said airport director Manoj Chansoria.“Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, travelling has changed. We have received guidelines from the ministry that need to be followed while arranging flight operations.”“The most important thing is to maintain social distancing. We are making yellow and black stripe marks right from the arrival to boarding gates. The passenger must have the Aarogya Setu app. We are ensuring touch-free arrangements at the airport,” he added. (With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/flights-ferrying-211-indians-stranded-in-canada-malaysia-land-in-amritsar/story-Xi2U82Tsui87i9ZePlCglM.html
22-05-2020||Bangalore||105 new Covid-19 cases reported in Karnataka, state tally 1,710||105 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Karnataka from 5 pm yesterday till noon today, according to information provided by the State Health Department.The total number of COVID-19 cases in Karnataka has reached 1,710, including 1,080 active cases. While 588 patients have been discharged after treatment, 42 deaths (including one due to ‘non-COVID’ cause) have been reported in the state.According to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, the total number of cases in the country is 1,18,447, including 66,330 active cases. While 48,533 patients have either been cured and discharged, 3,583 deaths have been reported so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/105-new-covid-19-cases-reported-in-karnataka-state-tally-1-710/story-1F4W13jP9TYWVVsJScmHkJ.html
22-05-2020||Delhi||With 660 new Covid-19 cases, Delhi records another big spike||Delhi’s tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) went beyond 12,000 on Friday as 660 new cases were reported in the last 24 hours, the biggest single-day spike, according to news agency ANI.This is the fourth day that Delhi has record the highest single-day spike, data shows, as the national capital had reported more than 500 new cases each day. There also have been 14 deaths related to Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, taking the toll to 208, according to ANI. The number of positive cases stands at 12,319 and there are 6,214 active cases, it said.An expert committee had advised the Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to prepare for the addition of over 500 cases daily as the second of three scenarios. The first scenario was reporting 100 cases a day and the third was 1,000 cases a day.In the last week, Delhi witnessed sealing of nine areas as Covid-19 containment zones even as nine other sealed zones witnessed scaling down of containment efforts, government data showed.The Delhi government has in the last one week “de-contained” sealed areas in Block 34 of Trilokpuri, Israel Camp in Rangpuri, K2 block in Nihal Vihar, Oberoi Apartment in central Delhi, G1 block in Mansarovar Garden, Lane 14 in Kalyanpuri, three lanes in D-block of Sangam Vihar, Deenpur Village and Shahjahanabad Society in Dwarka.Between May 14 and 21, containment zones were added in F block of Dakshinpuri, the main road of Zamroodpur, three separate pockets in Jahangirpuri, Dhobiwali Gully in Azadpur, Chandrashekhar Azad Colony in Wazirpur Industrial Area, BB block in Shalimar Bagh and C block of Sultanpuri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/with-660-new-covid-19-cases-delhi-records-another-big-spike/story-GtZ4D3e4hKAXXiFSyi8J7H.html
22-05-2020||Delhi||Days after relaxation in lockdown norms, heavy traffic at Delhi’s ITO area||With the lockdown guidelines being relaxed under the fourth phase of COVID-19 lockdown, heavy traffic congestion was seen at ITO area here on Friday.Several cars, two-wheelers, auto-rickshaws and a few buses were seen on the roads as people started going to their workplaces in the national capital amid the lockdown.The Delhi government has allowed private offices to operate with full strength, stressing that offices should permit a majority of their staff to work from home.According to the Delhi government, not more than one passenger is allowed in auto-rickshaws, e-rickshaws, and cycle-rickshaws. The Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) also resumed its city bus services earlier this week.As per orders, no movement will be allowed between 7 pm and 7 am except for essential services and in case of an emergency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/days-after-relaxation-in-lockdown-norms-heavy-traffic-at-delhi-s-ito-area/story-nScBsxdjyUAJ35oRrJqonN.html
22-05-2020||Chandigarh||3 BJP legislators draw flak for demanding Vidhan Sabha session to discuss corona crisis||Three BJP legislators and a handful of Congress leaders have demanded that the state government convene a special session of the Vidhan Sabha to discuss strategies to combat the coronavirus crisis. However, the demand has not gone down well with the BJP’s top brass. The BJP legislators who raised the demand are Dharamshala legislator Vishal Neharia, Jawalamukhi legislator Ramesh Dhawala and Nurpur legislator Rakesh Pathania.State party chief Rajeev Bindal says had ‘taken serious note of the demand raised by three BJP legislators: “The demand for convening the Vidhan Sabha session is uncalled for. It was due to the coronavirus crisis that the budget session of the Vidhan Sabha was cut short. The crisis has still not resolved so there is no need to convene the Vidhan Sabha session.”“All big meetings and religious gatherings have been restricted in the wake of the coronavirus crisis. Thus, there is no point in convening a special Vidhan Sabha session,” he said. “Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur is making concerted efforts to deal with the Corona -19 crisis,“ said Bindal. The BJP legislators had called on Vidhan Sabha speaker Vipin Singh Parmar and demanded a special session. “It was not a delegation led by leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri. All legislators had gathered at the Vidhan Sabha premises to attend a meeting of the Vidhan Sabha committee. We did not demand that an immediate session be convened. The Covid-19 crisis can be discussed later, “said Rakesh Pathania. The three legislators also issued a joint statement underlining the need of an immediate Vidhan Sabha session. They also lauded the efforts made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi as well as chief minister Jai Ram Thakur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/3-bjp-legislators-draw-flak-for-demanding-vidhan-sabha-session-to-discuss-corona-crisis/story-fKkiYS8gK0kjcPanzuQchP.html
22-05-2020||Bangalore||Uber resumes operations in Karnataka amid lockdown 4.0||Uber said on Friday it has resumed its operations in Bengaluru, Mysuru, Mangaluru, and Hubballi, in compliance with Lockdown 4.0 guidelines issued by the Government. Riders in Bengaluru can book UberAuto, UberGO, Premier, Intercity, Hourly Rental, UberXL, Access, and Assist on their Uber App.UberAuto, UberGO, Premier, and Intercity are available in Mysuru, UberGO and Intercity services in Mangaluru, and UberAuto services in Hubballi. Uber Intercity operations will be limited to travel with necessary authorisation and within state boundaries and permissible zones only, the company said in a statement. Uber said it has launched comprehensive measures such as the distribution of PPE kits, including masks, sanitisers and disinfectants to drivers and the introduction of mandatory educational video courses for them||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/uber-resumes-operations-in-karnataka-amid-lockdown-4-0/story-TAMrW6bN0v0jbLSp4NrrPL.html
22-05-2020||Delhi||Healthcare workers against revised govt guideline on quarantine, launch black ribbon protest||Healthcare workers treating Covid-19 patients in government hospitals designated for the treatment of patients with coronavirus disease are protesting after being asked to vacate quarantine facilities as per the latest guideline by the Union health ministry.Under the previous guideline, all doctors, nurses, technicians and sanitation workers in the Covid-19 wards had to work 14 days in a row and remain in quarantine for the next 14 days to ensure that they did not take the infection back home.The revised guideline from the union health ministry on management of manpower in the hospitals issued on May 15 said that there was no need for quarantine of healthcare workers after Covid-19 duty, unless there had been a breach in the personal protective equipment or any other form of high-risk exposure.The Federation of Resident Doctors’ Association (FORDA) has called for a black ribbon protest on Friday demanding proper quarantine for all healthcare workers on Covid-19 duty.A circular from Delhi’s Lady Hardinge Medical College issued on Thursday states, “Hotel facility during post-duty period in Covid-19 and suspected Covid-19 zones provided to healthcare workers is hereby withdrawn and the occupants are directed to please vacate their rooms immediately. If any overstay is noticed, charges paid for the overstay will have to be recovered from their salaries.”The accommodation will be available to those still on Covid-19 duties at the hospital.“This is happening across the designated Covid-19 hospitals after the union health ministry guidelines were issued. The problem, however, is that even if someone is asymptomatic, they might pass on the infection to their hostel-mates or family members. We have seen in some cases staff testing positive during the second round of testing between day 11 to 14,” said Dr Sunil Dhuchania, president of the resident doctors’ association of the hospital.A similar notice was issued to the healthcare workers from Lok Nayak hospital, the biggest Covid-19 treatment facility in Delhi with 2,500 beds. “In an order yesterday, those in quarantine were asked to vacate the hotels or dharmashala rooms by Thursday noon. However, we had a meeting with the medical director and they have been given a week’s time to vacate the facility,” said Dr Parv Mittal, president of the RDA at Lok Nayak hospital.For future batches of healthcare workers, the hospital will make arrangements for those working in high-risk areas such as the intensive care unit has to follow the quarantine protocol. “Although the directions from the ministry and Delhi government is to provide quarantine only to those considered to have been high-risk contacts during their duty by the hospital infection control committee, we will be making arrangements for those working in ICUs to still continue the quarantine,” said a senior official from the hospital administration, on condition of anonymity.A similar compromise was worked out by the doctors at Dr Ram Manohar Lohia (RML) hospital in Delhi.“An extension has been provided for the current batch of people who finished their duty in mid-May. After that, we are in talks with the medical superintendent to at least provide quarantine for seven days so that the healthcare workers do not take back the infection to their elderly parents or young children,” said Dr Ekta Yadav, president of the RDA at RML hospital.“However, we are hoping that the health ministry takes back these guidelines by the time the next shift ends,” she said.Doctors at Safdarjung hospital have negotiated a five-day quarantine for healthcare workers in the Covid-19 wards, so that they can be tested once before they go back home.“At the hospital level, our medical superintendent has allowed five-day quarantine for healthcare workers from the Covid-19 wards, so they can stay in the hotel till they are tested once,” said Dr Manish Kumar, president of the RDA of Safdarjung hospital.The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), which caters to the second-highest number of Covid-19 patients, is following the health ministry guidelines and is providing quarantine to only those who are recommended by the hospital infection control committee. The dharamshalas of the hospital, which are used by the relatives of the patients usually, were being provided to the healthcare workers from the hospital.“We are following the health ministry guidelines,” said Dr DK Sharma, medical superintendent of the hospital.The guidelines define “high risk exposure” as a healthcare worker treating Covid-19 patient or handling their samples without proper personal protective equipment (PPE) or probable breach of the PPE. It will also be required if a healthcare worker is in contact with a positive person at a distance of less than 1 metre for more than 15 minutes without masks, face-shields or goggles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/healthcare-workers-against-revised-govt-guideline-on-quarantine-launch-black-ribbon-protest/story-fsPbszvgUWdZfealUg6sZK.html
22-05-2020||Kolkata||Cyclone Amphan: PM Modi arrives in Kolkata, to take stock of situation in Bengal||Prime Minister Narendra Modi arrived here on Friday to take stock of the situation in West Bengal, which has been devastated by cyclone Amphan.Modi arrived at the Kolkata airport at 10.50 am and was received by Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar and senior state BJP leaders.According to official sources, Banerjee will be first holding a short meeting with the prime minister, during which she would brief him about the ground situation. #WATCH: PM Narendra Modi conducts aerial survey of areas affected by #CycloneAmphan in West Bengal. CM Mamata Banerjee is also accompanying. pic.twitter.com/Da7NebJhws“Later they would leave on a chopper for the aerial survey,” an official said.The two leaders are also scheduled to hold review meeting on the post-cyclone situation.“He will conduct aerial survey and take part in review meetings, where aspects of relief and rehabilitation will be discussed,” the PMO said in a tweet on Thursday night.According to TMC sources, the chief minister is likely to demand a financial package for the state.Banerjee has already demanded that the cyclone be declared as a national disaster. The cyclone has left 77 people dead in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/cyclone-amphan-pm-modi-arrives-in-kolkata-to-take-stock-of-situation-in-bengal/story-ZJ3p153z4JPmuQ71goajQP.html
22-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: Gurdaspur administration withdraws order to depute school teachers at distilleries||The Gurdaspur district administration on Thursday withdrew an order to depute 24 government school teachers at distilleries and breweries to “keep a tab on the supply of alcohol”, following severe criticism from opposition parties and teachers’ associations.District Education Officer (Secondary) Hardeep Singh said the order, which was issued on Wednesday, had been withdrawn.The May 20 order had directed the teachers to provide details of alcohol supply at four distilleries -- AB Grains Spirit Pvt limited, Chadha Sugar and Inds limited unit - I and II, and Adie Broswon Breweries -- located in Batala in a prescribed format to a nodal officer.Duty slots of 6 am to 2 pm, 2 pm to 10 pm and 10 pm to 6 am were fixed for them.Opposition parties Shiromani Akali Dal and Aam Aadmi Party had dubbed it “highly shameful”.Democratic Teachers’ Front (Punjab) president Davinder Singh Punia had also condemned the order. “Highly Shameful!! After Nakas, Mandis, teachers’ 24×7 deployment at Distilleries 2 monitor supply of Liquor clearly shows regressive mindset of @capt_amarinder g’s Govt towards Nation-Builders. Govt.must roll back it’s insensitive orders,” AAP MLA Aman Arora said in a tweet.SAD leader and former education minister Daljit Singh Cheema had also hit out at the state government over the order.“Nothing can be more shameful than this order. Teachers command important position in society and students respect them a lot. It is beyond our imagination what kind of message the state government intends to pass on with such order,” he had said, demanding the order be withdrawn immediately.Notably, on May 16, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh had directed the police department to crack down on all kinds of liquor smuggling, bootlegging and illicit distillation of liquor to prevent revenue loss to the state exchequer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-gurdaspur-administration-withdraws-order-to-depute-school-teachers-at-distilleries/story-KBWAmtuTNkzNHAKZnUZcPO.html
22-05-2020||Lucknow||Will explore teaching rural kids through DD: UP deputy chief minister||Deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma on Thursday suggested the use of television to take education to students in rural pockets in order to continue education amid Covid-19 pandemic.“We all are looking for new ways to educate our youngsters in these troubling times. We trying various means and methods,” said Sharma said while addressing a webinar organised by higher education department of the state on Thursday.“The higher education department has suggested me to look into the use of Doordarshan in imparting education to students living in rural pockets who don’t have smartphones,” he said while insisting that these were unimaginable times and out of the box initiatives were needed to overcome challenges.“I feel very proud that online teaching is being used to teach students. Such efforts made by our teachers must continue,” Sharma said.“The importance of sanitization and ways to do it must also become a part of our education. Students must know about these things,” he added.The deputy CM also stressed on the need for imparting employment-oriented education to students.“The higher education department has made some efforts in these directions but there is a need to push forward these initiatives,” Sharma said.The webinar titled, ‘Covid 19: Way ahead in education’ was attended by several educationists, including vice chancellors of universities and other officials. The session was anchored by principal secretary higher education Monika Garg.She stressed on the need to think out of the box.“There is a need to re look into all aspects of education and the ways we can change it according to what is required in these times. For this, we all must think hard and think out of the box,” she said.While most education institutes are continuing with their academic work though online classes, Garg suggested the way examination are conducted must also change.MM Pant, former VC IGNOU, said, “Once the Covid-19 crisis is over we must look for next practices in education by thinking beyond the existing best practices in education to take on new challenges.”Former director of IIT-Kanpur Sanjay G Dhande and VC of Gautam Buddha University BP Sharma also presented their views.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/will-explore-teaching-rural-kids-through-dd-up-deputy-chief-minister/story-7yBWg30ZuXGbFKEj8LD5vK.html
22-05-2020||Lucknow||Lucknow police book 80 criminals under gangster act in a month||To make strong cases against criminals involved in heinous crimes, Lucknow police Commissionerate is booking them under the gangster act. Since police Commissionerate system was made effective in Lucknow since January 13, cops are empowered to evoke gangster act against the criminals on its own without district magistrate’s intervention.‘Booking criminals under gangster act make the case against them stronger,” Lucknow Commissioner of Police Sujeet Pandey said.During the lockdown, police have opened the gang chart of certain criminals starting with the accused in the murder of a lesser-known Hindu outfit leader Kamlesh Tiwari. Kamlesh was murdered in October 2019. On April 6, during the lockdown, police booked 13 people in connection with Kamlesh’s murder from various parts of UP. Besides, five were arrested from Surat and one each from Nagpur and Bengaluru.Police booked five accused in connection with Ranjeet Bachchan murder case under the gangster act on May 5. These include Bachchan’s second wife Smriti Srivastava, her friend Deependra Verma, Sanjit, and Jitendra Verma. A senior police official said 18 cases have been registered during the lockdown period in which 80 criminals have been booked under the gangsters’ act. Of these 80, the police have arrested 60 accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/lucknow-police-book-80-criminals-under-gangster-act-in-a-month/story-PWKQkAgWMvN7RogARGMQBI.html
22-05-2020||Lucknow||No entrance exam for PG admission to Rajju Bhaiya varsity||The Prof Rajendra Singh (Rajju Bhaiya) University, Prayagraj, has decided not to conduct any entrance exams for admissions to its various post-graduate courses for the 2020-21 academic session, in the light of the Covid-19 outbreak and the restrictions in place, officials said. The university officials have instead decided to admit students on the basis of the merit list of applicant students, this time. New admissions will be carried out from the third week of July and officials of affiliated colleges, offering under-graduate courses, have been instructed to also carry out admissions at their level.The Prayagraj-based university is among the newest state universities of Uttar Pradesh set up in 2016. The university has 321 affiliated colleges in Prayagraj, 71 in Kaushambi, 72 in Fatehpur and 146 in Pratapgarh districts.University vice-chancellor Sangita Srivastava said that the decision not to conduct admission exams has been taken keeping in mind the present situation and for the benefit of common students. She said officials of affiliated colleges have been instructed to begin admission process at their level, while the university, which offers only PG courses, has decided to admit students on the basis of merit for all its 11 PG programmes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/no-entrance-exam-for-pg-admission-to-rajju-bhaiya-varsity/story-YsslyacUtDuSlo7nSWRCiN.html
22-05-2020||Lucknow||5 nabbed for illegal mining in Saharanpur, FIR registered||Police arrested five people, allegedly involved in illegal mining, and seized eight trucks on the banks of Yamuna river under Behat police station limits in Saharanpur district late night on Wednesday. An FIR had been registered against 17 people in this connection, reports said.According to the media cell of Saharanpur district, while Behat police was conducting routine checking on Wednesday night, they received information that some people were involved in illegal mining near Aslampur Bartha bank of Yamuna river in Behat. With the help of drone cameras, police took the photographs and they confirmed that the information was correct. Later, a team of cops went to arrest people, involved in illegal mining. Police said that as soon as the cops crossed the river, miners pelted stones on them and tried to escape. While the accused were fleeing, cops managed to arrest five of them along with eight trucks. The five accused who were arrested include Galib son of Nawab of Deoband, Saddam son of Abdul of Muzzaffarnagar, Nadeem son of Ayyub of Muzaffarnagar, Jahid son of Mehboob of Muzzaffarnagar and Ankit son of Suresh of Deoband. They were later taken to district court on Thursday. The entire operation was conducted under the guidance of Saharanpur’s district magistrate Akhilesh Singh and SDM Behat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/5-nabbed-for-illegal-mining-in-saharanpur-fir-registered/story-lTFBOrO3u8R5aDcRLBVdEL.html
22-05-2020||Lucknow||Tiger carcass found in Pilibhit Reserve||The decomposed carcass of a tiger was found in Pilibhit Tiger Reserve (PTR) on Wednesday. This is the second big cat to die in the forest range in the last 15 days. In the last census, PTR had just over 50 tigers. A couple of weeks ago, an adult tiger, which was attacked and injured by villagers in Pilibhit, died during a botched rescue attempt by forest department officials.According to reports, on Wednesday evening, the forest department found the decomposed and “almost dried up” carcass of the adult tiger in the Khakra compartment of the Mahof forest range in the PTR.Field director of PTR, H. Rajamohan, said a part of the tiger’s body was eaten up by wild animals. “Nails and almost all the teeth are intact in the carcass. This suggests that it was not killed by poachers. The carcass seems to be over one week old,” he said.With this, PTR has lost three adult tigers since April 4. Two of them are dead, while one was sent to Kanpur zoo.The field forest force has been directed to conduct combing operation in entire area to collect the clues about the tiger’s death.The National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) has nominated a representative to be present during the post-mortem for assessing the causes leading to tiger’s death and submit an independent report.Autopsy of the big cat will be conducted on Thursday in PTR by a panel of doctors from Bareilly’s Indian Veterinary Research Institute. The designated representatives of the NTCA as well as chief wildlife warden of Uttar Pradesh will be present there.The Pilibhit Tiger Reserve, according to the last census, had just over 50 tigers.Meanwhile, Lucknow-based wildlife enthusiast Kaushlendra Singh, has written a letter to the principal secretary, forest department, Sudhir Garg, asking him to explain the special measures taken by the state government to protect the tigers in the PTR and other protected sanctuary.“Why did the field forest force of PTR fail to trace the carcass for more than one week, especially when the spot was a junction point of two states?” he asked and added, “This lapse is concrete evidence that the claims of PTR officials of carrying out round-the-clock combing in wild are false.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/tiger-carcass-found-in-pilibhit-reserve/story-XYfPUboPKzq9rrHMVqikhL.html
22-05-2020||Lucknow||Arrange 200 buses at entry point of each districts: Uttar Pradesh CS to DMs||Uttar Pradesh chief secretary RK Tiwari has asked all district administrations to keep 200 buses on standby at the entry points of each 75 districts for using them to transport migrant workers.“Each officer and staff concerned of the state government must behave with compassion and respect with the incoming migrant workers. Install loudspeakers at the entry points to inform them about the arrangements made for them and that they must not walk,” said Tiwari in a circular issued to all districts on Thursday. “Arrange for food, water, and ‘pandal’ (shed) to house them before they are put on a suitable bus,” he said in the circular addressed to all the district magistrates and top police officers in the districts. Asked for proper upkeep of transit/shelter/quarantine centres and that the migrant workers must be discouraged from walking long distances, or travel on unsafe vehicles such as trucks and three-wheelers. Tiwari asked the districts to ensure regular and frequent patrolling by PRV 112 and that all the staff on duty on the roads, shelter homes etc must have sufficient masks, gloves and sanitisers for their own safety.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/arrange-200-buses-at-entry-point-of-each-districts-uttar-pradesh-cs-to-dms/story-ptR9aaQL2xFvrFe4L2AbRN.html
22-05-2020||Lucknow||Yogi: Raise Covid hospitals’ capacity to one lakh beds||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday said capacity of the state’s Covid-19 hospitals should be increased to 1 lakh beds by the end of May.He also expressed satisfaction over the arrangement made so far of 78,033 beds in L-1, L-2 and L-3 Covid hospitals in Uttar Pradesh.Presiding over a meeting of his Team-11 to review the lockdown, Yogi said a health department officer of additional director or joint director level should be nominated in every district to assist the chief medical officers. He said the list of officers nominated should be forwarded to his office. He said proper arrangements should be made in Covid hospitals and no laxity in this regard would be tolerated. He said supply of PPE kits, N-95 masks, three layer masks, gloves, sanitisers, medicines, pulse oximeter and infrared thermometers should be maintained in every district. The CM said every district should have a testing laboratory in time-bound manner and added that testing capacity should be raised to 10,000 per day. He said patients admitted in hospitals should be provided easily digestible food and drinking water and there should be a system to have regular communication with them. He said anaesthesiologists and technicians should be trained and deputed to look after operations of ventilators in every district. He asked his team to continue the fight against Covid-19 with the same team work and tenacity as it has being doing. He said the fight against Covid-19 has been against an invisible enemy but the concerted efforts have brought in good results.He asked the divisional commissioners, district magistrates, IGs, SPs and CMOs to continue to work in coordination and meet daily to prepare the future strategy. He said district magistrates and district supply officers should ensure availability of food grains to people in their districts. He said door-step delivery system should be strengthened in containment zones. Yogi said police patrolling should be intensified to maintain social distancing and avoid crowding. He said services of PRD jawans and ex-servicemen should be taken for traffic control and added that provision of low-rent housing, as envisaged in Prime Minister’s 20 lakh crore economic package, should be taken forward to help the migrant labourers get employment.He said migrants being sent to home quarantine should be provided ration kits and added that no single person should be left hungry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/yogi-raise-covid-hospitals-capacity-to-one-lakh-beds/story-ChaYOVDzK2lsoC8bzuSDeN.html
22-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi Police cut aid for Covid-19 positive personnel from Rs 1 lakh to Rs 10,000||The Delhi Police has decided to cut the amount being given to its Covid-19 positive personnel by 90 per cent. Those personnel who get infected with the coronavirus while on duty will now get Rs 10,000 instead of Rs 1 lakh announced earlier as the number of infections have increased rapidly in the force, officials said on Thursday, reports news agency PTI. “A meeting was held recently and it was decided that the sanction amount should be reduced. A lot of policemen are getting infected with the virus and the amount has to be distributed equally in such cases. So a decision was taken to reduce the amount from Rs 1 lakh to Rs 10,000,” a senior police officer was quoted as saying by PTI. The force has also decided to increase the amount given to the kin of its personnel who dies of Covid-19 from Rs 7 lakh to Rs 10 lakh. Delhi Police has reported one death from the disease so far – a 31-year-old constable posted at Bharat Nagar police station in north-west Delhi who died on May 5. It issued a standard operating procedure (SOP) last week for daily health monitoring of personnel to ensure timely prevention and protection from the virus following the death of the constable. According to the SOP, any police personnel feeling unwell, suffering from cough, sore throat, fever, breathlessness or any other symptoms “must immediately report” the same to the duty officer (DO) of the police station or unit where they are posted “by any means of communication”.They said over 250 police personnel have been infected with the virus, as per the PTI report.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-police-reduce-aid-from-covid-19-positive-personnel-from-rs-1-lakh-to-rs-10-000/story-rYUE6UEa7npurQMRZXke4K.html
22-05-2020||Dehradun||AIIMS Rishikesh student suspended after his arrest over objectionable social media post||A fourth-year student of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Rishikesh was suspended and asked to vacate the hostel on Thursday evening, a day after he was arrested for allegedly putting up an objectionable post about Hindu gods on social media.Manoj Gupta, dean of academics at AIIMS Rishikesh, said the college has initiated an inquiry into the matter.“We came to know that the boy had posted something on Facebook which was religiously objectionable and we have initiated an inquiry into it. As of now, the boy has been suspended. We are looking into the matter and will take strict action,” said Gupta.Gupta said the student is undergoing treatment for a psychiatric illness.Parmendra Dobhal, superintendent of police for rural Dehradun, said the student was arrested on Wednesday after a local resident lodged a complaint that he had allegedly put up a post on social media to incite religious sentiments.“A medical student from AIIMS Rishikesh was arrested by the police on Wednesday after he had posted some obscene religious content on social media. He was later released following notice to him under CrPc section 41,” said Dobhal.A first information report (FIR) was registered and the student was booked under Section 153(A) (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion) and 295(A) (deliberate and malicious intention of outraging the religious feelings of any class of citizens of India) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 67 of the IT act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/aiims-rishikesh-student-suspended-after-his-arrest-over-objectionable-social-media-post/story-oyxJo365KmgV2iaP1zD5CN.html
22-05-2020||Delhi||Sadar Bazar ponders its place in Covid-19 era||These days Rakesh Yadav, a trader in Sadar Bazar, spends a significant time every day discussing with his fellow businessmen how to reopen the market and conduct business in the post–Covid world. He says in Sadar Bazar, a warren of narrow streets, always jam-packed in normal times , social distancing is an impossible proposition—and so is the odd-even formula the government has proffered. He explains why: Sadar Bazar, India’s largest wholesale market of household goods, has about 40,000 shops; each one has about 3-4 workers/salesmen. Then there are thousands of thelawalas, daily wage labourers, loaders, luggage careers, rickshaw drivers, jostling for space in its lanes. On an average, Yadav says, there are 2. 5 lakh people in the market on any given day.“The traders feel opening the market is a monumental risk , and they are reluctant to take it,” says Yadav, who is also president, Sadar Bazar Trades Association. Among the proposals, he points out, the traders have floated during endless rounds of tele- and video conferencing in the past few days, include opening the shops trade-wise, reducing the timing of business hours, keeping hand sanitiser machines at all shops, creating a boundary with a rope to separate shoppers from shopkeepers, encouraging customers to pre-order goods on WhatsApp, and minimise cash transactions.“While all these measures look good on paper, it is next to impossible to implement them in a market like Sadar Bazar. The traders are fearful of Covid-19 because a majority of them are in their late 50s and 60s, running the business with the help of their employees, their children having refused to join, what with the poor working conditions in the market,” says Yadav.Making a choice is tough, says Rajender Sharma, a soft-toy trader in the market. “We are caught between the devil and the deep sea. The market is usually so crowded it is impossible for people to walk without literally falling over each other. You cannot maintain social distancing in the market where many streets are barely 3-ft wide,” says Sharma.Pawan Kumar, national organising general secretary, Bhartiya Udyog Vyapar Mandal, says that the odd-even formula proposed by the Delhi government would not work in Sadar Bazar.“There are hundreds of buildings here with one number, but as many as 20 shops, a result of the fact the property has over the years been divided among family members,” says Kumar who has his shop near Bara Tooti Chowk, in Sadar Bazar, one of the city’s oldest labour chowks, where manual labourers, masons, porters and house painters used to gather every morning looking for work. These days it wears a deserted look. “We kept meeting authorities over the past two decades to decongest the market, improve the infrastructure and working conditions, but no one cared. Now we are faced with an existential crisis,” adds Kumar.Pawan Khandelwal, a jeweller in Sadar Bazar says the market is the lifeline for lakhs of traders across north India. “Every house in Delhi would have something that came from this market. Here one can buy anything from cosmetics to toys, steel utensils, stationery, gas ovens, jewellery. You name it and we sell it, ” says Khandelwal.He is not exaggerating.Sadar Bazar, which is presently a containment zone, has dozens of submarkets such as Pratap Market, Swadeshi Market, Toys Market, Bartan Market, each dealing in a particular product. In all, there are about 83 traders associations in the market, more than in any other market in the city.Until the late 1980s, most traders lived in Sadar Bazar, with their shops on the ground floor and residence upstairs in localities such as Deputy Gunj, Prakash Gali, Matawali Gali, but as congestion increased over the years, most shifted out, converting their houses into warehouses and shops. They allowed, rather encouraged, the labourers to sleep in the house-turned-godowns, ensuring that they did not have to worry about lack of labour or break-ins, while workers and labourers got a place to live. Thousands of workers and labourers, who are mostly into loading , unloading and transporting goods on hand-pulled carts, who could not find a space simply slept outside shops and godowns, cooking, bathing sleeping in the narrow streets.For them, Sadar Bazar has been a home and a workplace for decades. For instance, Rajendra Prasad, 62. He was 20 when he arrived in Delhi 40 years ago on a pleasant March morning. From the railway station, he headed straight to Sadar Bazar, where he found work within a couple of hours. He earned ₹10 on day one and slept on a footpath in the night . “I remember a shopkeeper had asked me to load sacks of wool in a truck. I never went out of work in the market until this March, when it closed,” says Prasad. “I have been desperately waiting for the market to reopen for two months now; I think it is time to head to my village,” adds Prasad, who hails from Basti district in Uttar Pradesh.While thousands of labourers like Prasad left for their homes over the past two months, having failed to earn, there are others who have stayed putMallu Singh 40, who has so far resisted the temptation to leave, says: “ I was never short of work since I came to Sadar Bazar 22 years ago. Starting at 10 am, I would work late into the night , earning anything between ₹400 to ₹800 a day. “ I have waited for 2 months and I think I should wait for some more time before I leave,” says Singh , who hails from Gonda district in UP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/sadar-bazar-ponders-its-place-in-covid-era/story-a7t1n8W5fcPBbEagfQDGoI.html
22-05-2020||City||War veteran passes away at 102||Gurdial Singh Jallanwalia, one of the oldest war veterans in the country, passed away at the age of 102. He breathed his last at his house in Civil Lines, Ludhiana, on Thursday evening. He had been suffering from some age-related ailments, his son Harmander Singh said.Jallanwalia had participated in four battles, including World War II. In 1939 and 1940, he fought a battle for British Army in Waziristan, now in Pakistan. During the second world war in 1944-1945, he was posted in Burma (now Myanmar) and was shot on the lower abdomen by a Japanese soldier. But somehow, the soldier could not fire a second shot and Jallanwalia’s fellow soldier was quick to shoot the enemy. In 1947 and 1948, Jallanwalia led a battle in Jammu and Kashmir region and during 1965 war, he was posted in Amritsar. Despite, participating in four wars, he advocated continuous dialogue to bring peace. He was also an active supporter of the One Rank One Pension (OROP) campaign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/war-veteran-passes-away-at-102/story-WzKiKiB6o7A82bGodZhZiI.html
22-05-2020||City||60-year-old Covid patient dies waiting for ambulance in Thane; TMC orders inquiry||A 60-year-old patient from Shivajinagar in Wagale Estate had to wait for over two hours on Wednesday for an ambulance. The ambulance finally arrived but he died. The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has initiated an inquiry into the incident. A resident of Shivajinagar and the patient’s neighbour said, “The patient was suffering from fever. His daughter took him to Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Hospital in Kalwa on Tuesday. The hospital said they don’t admit fever patients. She then took him to Thane civil hospital, which also refused admission saying that the patient has not undergone a Covid test. The patient was tested and his report came positive on Wednesday. “The TMT bus ambulance arrived to take the patient to hospital but the driver did not have PPE kit and refused to ferry the Covid positive patient without the kit. The neighbour said, “Also, the ambulance did not have any medical staff so they told us to wait. The man waited for over two hours on the road. He died later.”There have been several complaints about shortage of ambulance in the city. The TMC said it has initiated an inquiry into the incident. Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of TMC, said, “The civic commissioner has ordered an inquiry into the incident. Based on the inquiry report, action will be taken.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/60-year-old-covid-patient-dies-waiting-for-ambulance-in-thane-tmc-orders-inquiry/story-5ZlCWdBhb8KWZ0noMBWhAI.html
22-05-2020||City||Arhtiyas demand entry of at least 700 customers to main sabzi mandi||While the administration and the market committee are struggling to manage the rush at the main wholesale vegetable market (sabzi mandi) of the city near Jalandhar Bypass, the Ludhiana Sabzi Mandi Arhtiya Association has sought passes for at least 700 customers to enter the market as, they said, they were suffering losses.The arhtiyas are also demanding that the mandi be allowed to operate for six days a week.Arhtiyas handed over a list of likely customers to the mandi to district mandi officer (DMO) Jaswinder Dhaliwal on Thursday. The DMO is a member of the three-member committee, formed by deputy commissioner (DC) Pradeep Kumar Agrawal, to look into the demands of arhtiyas and plan accordingly.Besides Dhaliwal, the other members of the committee include sub-divisional magistrate (SDM-west) Amrinder Singh Malhi and additional deputy commissioner of police-1 (ADCP) Gurpreet Singh Sikand.Following complaints of a huge gathering at the sabzi mandi, the administration had, on April 3, restricted the sale of vegetables and fruits in the mandi to three days Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday and only the listed suppliers, who sell vegetables to street vendors in the city’s 95 wards, were issued passes to enter the market.Ruing losses due to decline in sales, the arhtiyas have demanded that the mandi be opened for six days a week. They also demanded that the customers, other than vendors, should also be allowed to enter the mandi.President of the a association Gurkamal Singh said, “Arhtiyas have been facing losses as their regular customers are not allowed to enter the market. The vendors, listed with the market committee, make purchases from select arhtiyas only, as they illegally buy vegetables from other markets situated outside the city,” he said. “Arhtiyas also face losses as perishable items rot after a day. We are ready to take all required precautions, but the administration should open the mandi for six days a week,” added Singh.Dhaliwal said, “Arhtiyas have handed over the list of their regular customers, but a decision on whether to allow their customers or not, will be taken at a meeting of the committee expected to take place on Friday.”The then DMO Jasbir Kaur had tested positive in April and it is suspected that virus victim ACP Anil Kohli had also contracted the virus while he was deputed at the mandi. The former DMO has recovered and discharged from hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/arhtiyas-demand-entry-of-at-least-700-customers-to-main-sabzi-mandi/story-UyMBXRqSJqrOduHEKmCpuL.html
22-05-2020||City||Two-week-old baby among 58 new cases in Navi Mumbai||Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) on Thursday reported 58 new cases, taking the city’s tally to 1,422. Two deaths were also reported.Among those who have tested positive are a two-week-old baby girl from Indiranagar, Turbhe, and a two-year-old girl from Shiravane, Nerul.A total of 13 new Covid positive cases were reported from Panvel on Thursday, taking the total in the region to 318.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-week-old-baby-among-58-new-cases-in-navi-mumbai/story-FpeKTg2he74qt8gQWPLa5M.html
22-05-2020||City||Four Covid-19 containment zones created in Mandi||After four new Covid-19 cases were reported in Mandi, the district administration on Thursday declared four areas of three subdivisions of the district as containment and buffer zones. These cases were reported from separate subdivisions of the district; Thunag (Gohar), Mandi Sadar, Balh and Gohar, said deputy commissioner Rugved Thakur.DC said that there will be no movement in the containment zones till further orders. There will be a complete ban on the exit of people, home delivery service, etc. While the adjoining areas which have been declared buffer zones, daily activities will continue with restrictions.Thakur said that the main focus of the administration is to prevent the infection from spreading.He added that persons (mostly family members) in direct and indirect contact with infected persons are being traced and samples of people are being taken for testing and they are being kept strictly in home quarantine. Further action will be taken as per the result of the sample, he said.Meanwhile, Kullu deputy commissioner Richa Verma said that a total of 5,548 people have arrived from outside the state and other districts and have been quarantined. So far 4,378 people have successfully completed the quarantine period while 1,170 persons are still under quarantine.She said that a total of 768 people have been sampled by the health department from the district so far, of which, 707 have tested negative, while one person tested positive on Wednesday. The report of 60 samples is awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-covid-19-containment-zones-created-in-mandi/story-ePS8GfmiKzMZ4EFbY0mKkO.html
22-05-2020||City||60-yr-old woman, another RPF jawan test positive, Ludhiana’s tally now at 178||Two fresh cases of Covid-19 were detected in Ludhiana on Friday. While one is a 60-year-old woman from Goh village in Khanna, the other is a 50-year-old railway protection force (RPF) personnel deployed in the district.As the RPF personnel are not being counted in Punjab’s tally, the district’s count stands at 178. The number of active cases is at 40. WOMAN ON VENTILATOR SUPPORTThe 60-year-old woman, who started showing symptoms of the virus on May 13, is currently on ventilator support at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh.The woman’s daughters said, “My mother had been at home all through and she was fine till last week. On the night of May 13, she began coughing profusely. We thought she may be suffering from allergy due to the harvesting season and stubble burning. But her condition continued to worsen with each passing day. Finally we took her to a clinic in Khanna.”After seeing the symptoms, the private doctor referred the case to Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector-32. “We reached there on Tuesday night. But no treatment was offered to my mother. Her condition kept deteriorating and she started facing difficulty in breathing following which her samples were sent for testing. On Wednesday night, her reports arrived, which stated she was Covid-19 positive,” the victim’s daughter said.“Soon after receiving the report, my mother was referred to PGI,” she said, adding that her family is now in home quarantine.The entire village has also been sealed as a precautionary measure. The patient’s younger son, who was visiting Uttar Pradesh (UP) in connection with harvesting the crop, is already in quarantine in a village school.Deputy commissioner Pradeep Agrawal informed that till date, a total of 5,469 samples have been taken, out of which reports of 5,074 have been received. As many as 4,817 samples tested negative while 395 are still pending. He said that now, the total number of patients from Ludhiana is 178, while 79 patients are related to other districts/states. He said that 131 patients have been cured till date and seven people have lost their lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/60-yr-old-woman-another-rpf-jawan-test-positive-ludhiana-s-tally-now-at-178/story-AqLaa6TdqjOoaqtfBeSzjK.html
22-05-2020||City||Rajoana resident arrested for thrashing constable at Raikot police station||A Rajoana village resident has been arrested for allegedly barging into the Raikot city police station in an inebriated condition and assaulting a constable. The accused allegedly tore the constable’s uniform and hurled abuses at the police department.The accused, Mandeep Singh, was agitated after the Raikot police arrested his father Harvinder Singh in a forgery case.A case has been registered following the statement of constable Gurpreet Singh of the station. Gurpreet said, “On Wednesday evening, the accused started knocking at the police station door vigorously. As I opened the door, the accused assaulted me and tore my uniform. The accused also abused the police department for arresting his father.”Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Gurtar Singh, who is investigating the case, said an FIR under Sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 294 (obscene acts or words in public) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rajoana-resident-arrested-for-thrashing-constable-at-raikot-police-station/story-N37QaFMX79Vupdrx02sr2H.html
22-05-2020||City||Ludhiana mayor, MC chief inspect Jagraon Bridge construction work, June 30 new deadline||With several non-governmental organisations (NGOs) announcing to observe the fourth death anniversary of Jagraon Bridge as a symbolic protest against the municipal corporation (MC) and railway department on July 14, mayor Balkar Sandhu and MC commissioner Kanwalpreet Kaur Brar on Thursday inspected the ongoing work of the bridge and directed the contractor to complete it by June 30.Under the project, the MC has to construct the retaining wall of the bridge and increase the width of roads approaching the railway overbridge (from gurdwara Dukhniwaran side towards Durga Mata Mandir) by three metres. The MC had earlier started the construction work on January 30 and it was due to be completed by April 14, but the project was halted after the curfew was announced by the state government on March 23.The construction work restarted on April 29 and it was said that the work is expected to complete by June 20.‘CURFEW LED TO DELAY IN CONSTRUCTION’Accompanied by area councillor Rakesh Prashar, mayor Sandhu said, “The contractor faced problems due to the unavailability of material while curfew was imposed in the state. However, the contractor has now been directed to complete the work by June 30 otherwise action will be taken against him and the officials concerned.”Rahul Verma, an NGO member, said, “We will be happy to celebrate the opening of the bridge on July 14 this year as for the last three years, we have been observing its death anniversary. However, if the authorities fail to complete the project this time also, the NGOs will again observe death anniversary of the bridge that is known as lifeline of the city.” In July 2016, the railways department had closed one leg of Jagraon Bridge that was leading to traffic chaos in the city. Since then, residents have been pressurising the district administration to expedite the construction work of the bridge. So far, three death anniversaries of the bridge have been observed as a symbolic protest against the authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-mayor-mc-chief-inspect-jagraon-bridge-construction-work-june-30-new-deadline/story-8202FTcUxegtX3wCCSdT7H.html
22-05-2020||City||Kangra administration launches e-portal for early detection of Covid-19 cases||The Kangra district administration launched a web portal on Thursday to help in early detection of Covid-19 cases and boost efforts to fight the disease, officials said.The e-service called Early Notification and Detection of Covid-19 (EndCovid) was conceptualised by the District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) and can be accessed on https://endcovidkangra.com. Deputy commissioner Rakesh Prajapati said that as the name itself suggests, this system gave a fillip to the efforts of the district administration in early detection of potential Covid-19 suspects.All information received on the portal is being kept confidential. The bilingual form will also help Hindi speaking people to easily understand the guidelines given on it.He said that influenza-like symptoms are indicative of Covid-19 infection and hence, it becomes important to trace, track and treat persons with such symptoms in order to prevent the spread of the virus.Once the data is submitted on the portal it is re-directed to the health department and a team of health officials will contact the patient at the earliest.If Covid-19 infection is suspected, a sample of the patient will be sent for testing. In case of very mild or mild symptoms, the patient will be advised to stay at home in a separate room until the health officials reach out to them.In case the condition becomes severe before the visit of the health team, the patients are advised to visit the nearest flu and fever clinic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kangra-administration-launches-e-portal-for-early-detection-of-covid-19-cases/story-MaON0m0NVQmlbE74goXuXM.html
22-05-2020||City||Himachal’s director health services held for ‘bribery’||Himachal Pradesh’s director health services Ajay Gupta was arrested by the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau on bribery charges, officials said on Thursday.His arrest on Wednesday night came following the surfacing of an audio in which he was purportedly heard seeking a bribe of ₹5 lakh.The special investigating unit of the anti-corruption bureau on Wednesday night summoned Ajay Gupta to its headquarters here for questioning and was later arrested.Additional chief secretary (health) RD Dhiman had referred the clip for vigilance probe.Additional director-general of police Anurag Garg said that Gupta replied evasively to the questioning by sleuths. “He showed selective amnesia in recalling events in the past couple of days,” said Garg. Reportedly his telephonic conversation pertained to purchase being made by the health department for fighting the Covid pandemic. After arrest, he was taken to Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital for examination where he was admitted as a patient of diabetes and blood pressure.Searches were conducted in the office and residence of Ajay Gupta under the supervision of SP SIU Shalini Agnihotri and certain documents were seized. He has been placed under suspension by the state government.“The doctor has been remanded in 5-day judicial custody by the court and further investigation in the matter is ongoing,” said Garg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-s-director-health-services-held-for-bribery/story-e91kFacHDgYVUiup2uPV1O.html
22-05-2020||City||Himachal CM launches Mukhya Mantri 1 Bigha Scheme for strengthening rural economy||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur launched an ambitious scheme Mukhya Mantri 1 Bigha Scheme that envisages strengthening rural economy by linking Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) under which a woman or her family who owns land up to one bigha (or 0.4 hectares) can raise a backyard kitchen garden by growing vegetables and fruits.CM said that this scheme would involve about 1.50 lakh womenfolk through 5,000 self-help groups. He said under the scheme each beneficiary woman will be entitled to get employment under MGNREGS, besides training to upscale her skill, grants meant to level the hill land, channelise water, set up a vermicompost pit and to purchase saplings and seeds.“Corona pandemic has forced the planners to rethink developmental schemes so as to revive the economy particularly in the rural areas,” said Thakur launching scheme through video conferencing. He said that with this objective the government has started ‘Mukhya Mantri 1 Bigha Scheme’ for the revival of economic activity in rural areasHe said that initially about 5,000 households would be covered under this scheme. He said that the concerned panchayats would send the proposal received by it to BDO to include it in the MGNREGA shelf. He said that the main objective of the scheme was to encourage villagers to adopt kitchen gardening by converging MGNREGA and Swachh Bharat Mission. He said that the self-help groups would be motivated to derive benefits from this scheme. He said that all self-help groups who are job cardholders could avail the benefit of ₹1 lakh and about 1.50 lakh women members would be benefitted under this scheme.Thakur urged the women SHGs to help the state government in effectively fighting Covid-19 pandemic in the state. He said that the women should keep a vigil on persons coming from other parts of the country to their native places so that he does not jump home quarantine. He also urged them to come forward in preparation and distribution of face masks to the needy.Women SHGs from 80 development blocks of the state participated in the video conferencing. Rural development and panchayati raj minister Virender Kanwar said that this scheme was bound to transform the rural economy of the state and also help in the economic empowerment of the women at the grassroots level.Director rural development Lalit Jain said that under this scheme the eligible women would be entitled to get a grant up to ₹40,000 and ₹10,000 for a concrete vermicompost pit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-cm-launches-mukhya-mantri-1-bigha-scheme-for-strengthening-rural-economy/story-Jn4KenRETxc5fov9e5J2KN.html
22-05-2020||City||Foreign returnees laud Punjab govt for making comfortable arrangements at quarantine centres||People returning from foreign countries have lauded the state government for making comfortable staying arrangements for them at quarantine centres.Sanyam Aggarwal, nodal officer, Covid-19, Ludhiana, said, “The district administration has arranged a facility of more than 950 beds in two private hotels and Parker House and Kairon Kisan Ghar, both located inside Punjab Agricultural University (PAU). As many as 800 beds have been reserved in these hotels, while there are 150 beds in the PAU facilities.” He said, “At present, people are staying at Parker House, Kairon Kisan Ghar, Covid care centre at the Meritorious School as well as in private hotels. More people are expected to reach Ludhiana in the next 2-3 weeks. We have received at least 250 requests from people willing to return to Ludhiana from other countries, which means around 1,000 will be requiring the facilities as some of them would be accompanied by their family members. A majority of the registrations have been made from countries such as Dubai, USA, Canada, Australia, UAE among others.”In a communiqué issued by public relations officer Harpreet Kaur, an NRI, who returned from Dubai, said, “The Punjab government is providing hotel-like facilities to us at government facilities.”The NRI is staying at Parker House. Belonging to Gujjarwal village, she had been in Dubai on a work permit for the past seven years but, due to the spread of Covid-19, she lost her job and returned to her village.A student, Rahul Gulati, who returned from Dubai, and a worker, Harwinder Singh, expressed satisfaction over the arrangements made by the Punjab government for them.Kulpreet Singh, MC joint commissioner-cum-in-charge of this quarantine centre, said, “All the people staying here have expressed satisfaction over the arrangements here.”He said, as per directions of the health department, they are provided good quality food thrice daily, along with other facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/foreign-returnees-laud-govt-for-making-comfortable-arrangements-at-quarantine-centres/story-p9xn12Xzx4y4sFyUC92phO.html
22-05-2020||City||Cong leader says tourism sector hit in Himachal, seeks bailout package from Centre||Senior Congress leader Sudhir Sharma on Thursday demanded the Centre and state government should provide a bailout package to the tourism industry which has been adversely hit due to Covid-19 pandemic.In a statement issued here, Sharma said that the tourism sector is a key contributor to the economy of the state.“Even as finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman ended her epic saga of relief and reform packages to revive the economy, nothing was announced for tourism and hospitality industry,” he said.The former urban development minister said that as per estimates, the tourism industry employs 38 million people in the country and in Himachal Pradesh more than 7 lakh people are directly or indirectly dependent on the industry for livelihood.The tourism sector contributes more than 6.6% to the state GDP, he said adding that travel restrictions after the Covid-19 lockdown have badly hit the industry in the state.The state government banned the entry of tourists in mid-March which left the industry paralysed.“There are 3,350 hotels, 1,656 homestays and 2,912 travel agencies in the state which are struggling to stay afloat,” said Sharma adding that not only hoteliers but guides, adventurer sports operators and taxi drivers too have been affected adversely.He said that the industry has been demanding a financial stimulus for its revival but the Centre and state government have failed to support the industry for its revival.He said that the state government could at least waive off or cut the electricity and water bills of hotels and restaurants as well as reduce the property tax for the next two years.He said that the state government recently announced an urban employment guarantee scheme and financial assistance scheme for one lakh registered workers but no relief was granted to the worst-hit sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cong-leader-says-tourism-sector-hit-in-himachal-seeks-bailout-package-from-centre/story-82Gabpq14IHUF2UBgzzclL.html
22-05-2020||Chandigarh||12% school students have left Chandigarh amid migrant exodus triggered by Covid-19||Almost 12% of the total students enrolled in government schools of Chandigarh have returned to their native states along with their families during the period of lockdown.This came to light after around 9,000 students failed to turn up to get their textbooks for the new academic session, which were distributed for classes 1 to 8 by the education department .Only 64,033 students out of 73,075 have received the books. Most of the students who failed to turn up are children of migrant labourers who have gone back with their families, say the teachers responsible for distribution.It is estimated that the figure of 12% could still be higher considering that the present data has only been collected for classes 1 to 8. Around 25,000 students are enrolled in primary and senior secondary classes do not find a mention in the data because they were not a part of the distribution drive.The textbooks were distributed in a total 114 schools barring the government high schools of sectors 52, 56, and all the schools under cluster no 5—Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 26—as they fall under the containment zone.A teacher teaching at GMSSS Dhanas on the condition of anonymity said, “Most of the students who study here belong to Himachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Uttarakhand. Many are children of migrant labourers who have gone back now.” A senior UT education department employee said, “Whether the children will come back or not depends on how the formal schooling resumes after the lockdown. The Government of India is also silent on the mass migration of students along with their families. It’s not clear if in the middle of the session these students will be given admission in these schools again or if they will have to get re-enrolled in their respective states.”Commenting on the issue, Rubinderjit Singh Brar, director school education, also attributed the absence of students to reverse migration. He said, “Migration could be a plausible reason (for students not turning up).” When asked about the department’s future course of action, Brar said it will be worked out at an appropriate stage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/12-school-students-have-left-chandigarh-amid-migrant-exodus-triggered-by-covid-19/story-8ELhXPzFhP4zvAgZz67dDL.html
22-05-2020||City||Illegal sex determination racket: Doctor, woman assistant sent to two-day police custody||Day after a Ludhiana-based doctor and his woman associate were arrested for running an illegal sex determination racket, the duo was remanded to two-day police custody on Thursday. Dr Rakesh Kumar who runs Sai Clinic and his employee, Jagjit Kaur, were booked under Sections 420 (cheating) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and the Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques Act at Jamalpur police station. Mundian police post in-charge sub-inspector Harbhajan Singh said more important information is expected from the accused during questioning. DEAL STRUCK FOR Rs 15,000Director health services (family welfare) Prabhdeep Kaur Johal said she had got tip-off about a sex determination racket being run in the city following which a trap was laid down by a health department team headed by Gurdaspur civil surgeon Kishan Chand. “A decoy patient was prepared and a deal was struck as demanded by the illegal scan centre. As per the deal, the decoy patient was told to pay Rs 15,000 for determining the sex of the foetus,” Johal said. As soon as the doctor started the ultrasonography to check the foetus, the team conducted a raid at the hospital and caught him. A portable ultrasound machine was recovered from the doctor along with the currency notes that were given by the department to the decoy patient. The doctor was not able to show any document regarding the registration of the ultrasound scan centre and moreover, he was found flouting other mandatory provisions under the PNDT Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/illegal-sex-determination-racket-doctor-woman-assistant-sent-to-two-day-police-custody/story-6rBZsYPID6zP35MmQSd4uK.html
22-05-2020||Mumbai||683 tested positive for Covid-19 at screening camps in Mumbai slums since April||As the slums in the city have been more vulnerable to the Covid-19 outbreak, the civic body has been relying on screening camps to identify the positive cases of coronavirus. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has claimed that 683 positive cases have been identified through its 357 screening camps in slums across the city where it had identified 18,643 high-risk patients since April 14. Civic officials said that they have been focusing on isolating the maximum number of suspected cases from slums.Meanwhile, the city’s total cases crossed the 25,000-mark on Thursday, with 1,382 new cases on Thursday taking the total tally to 25,500. The 41 deaths registered on Thursday has also escalated the city’s Covid-19 death toll to 882. Of the 25, 500 cases in the city, 6, 751 patients have been recovered and discharged with 285 recovering on Thursday. Out of the 1382 cases reported on Thursday, 142 cases were reported between May 18 and May 19 in private labsAn analysis of age wise cases of patients who tested positive for Covid-19 in the city reveals that out of the 23, 847 cases in Mumbai, 9, 299, that is the maximum number of patients, are from the age group of 30 to 49 years, followed by 7131 patients from the age group of 50-69. The analysis also shows that 5, 317 patients from the age group of 10 to 29 years has the maximum recovery rate which is 35%a. This is followed by patients below the age of 10, which only comprise of 481 cases has a 32 percent recovery.The G North ward, which includes Dadar, Dharavi and Mahim, has the highest number of cases in the city (1,880). At Dharavi, home to India’s largest slums, the cases have reached 1,425, as 47 new patients were found positive on Thursday. The mortality rate in Dharavi is around 4%.Ward officials said that they have been identifying the maximum people and isolating them. Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner of G North ward, said, “We have screened around 4 lakh people in Dharavi and tested more than 3,500 residents. We are likely to find more cases as we increase the screening and testing. That is the only way to go forward.” The other areas in G North ward – Mahim and Dadar – recorded 263 and 192 total cases.On Wednesday, a BMC press release stated that around 1,000 of its teams have been conducting house-to-house surveys across the slums areas in all 24 administrative wards. Suspected patients are referred to local civic dispensaries or Covid Care Centre-1 (CCC-1) facilities. “So far, 58,14,340 houses are surveyed and 7,447 suspect cases are referred till date. Through this, 52,798 high risk contacts of patients from slums areas are also identified, of which 36,167 contacts are quarantined in institutions,” the release stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/683-tested-positive-for-covid-19-at-screening-camps-in-mumbai-slums-since-april/story-4Wh3DnkrQDzKrNWB8nE1tJ.html
22-05-2020||City||Cop killed, another injured in attack on security forces at Pulwama||One policeman was killed and another was injured in an attack on the security forces at South Kashmir’s Pulwama on Thursday.On Thursday afternoon, unidentified gunmen attacked a police patrol at Prichoo in Pulwama. One policeman died on the spot, while CRPF personnel Anoop Singh was injured.A police spokesman said that terrorists fired at a joint naka party of police and CRPF at Prichoo. “Two police personnel got injured in the incident, and one of them succumbed to his injuries,” he said.This is the second attack on security forces in Kashmir since Wednesday evening.Two soldiers of the Border Security Force (BSF) were killed in Srinagar on Wednesday evening. Motorcycle-borne militants fired at the BSF jawans at a picket in Pandach area, on the outskirts of the city, the officials said.“After a group of terrorists attacked a BSF party at Srinagar’s Pandach, two troopers got injured. Later they succumbed to their injuries,” the official released read.The officials said both jawans, aged 35 and 36 respectively, had sustained head injuries. The attackers had also snatched weapons from the jawans.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cop-killed-another-injured-in-attack-on-security-forces-at-pulwama/story-feCizgNT9a0kew2vDBO7uO.html
22-05-2020||City||I was made to walk 3km to hospital in Dombivli: Covid patient||A 26-year-old Covid patient from Dombivli complained that he had to walk to Shastrinagar civic hospital in Dombivli on Thursday as the municipal corporation did not send an ambulance even after repeatedly calls. He alleged that the hospital staff asked him to walk to the hospital, which is 3km away, as an ambulance was not available. He called up the local social worker Bala Mhatre, 50, who along with five others accompanied him till the hospital by maintaining social distancing. They also shot a video of him posted it on the social media to draw the attention of Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation.“After my Covid report on Wednesday showed I was infected, I was asked to wait at home till an ambulance is sent by the civic hospital staff. On Thursday morning, I called up the Shastrinagar hospital for ambulance but they said there was no ambulance available. They asked me to walk to the hospital as arranging an ambulance would take time,” said the patient, who works as ward boy at Wadia hospital in Parel.His 52-year-old relative, who had tested positive, died on May 16. “I attended his funeral and his test report came after his death. I decided to get tested,” he said.After he tested positive, neighbours got scared and insisted he leave the building soon.“How can the civic hospital ask a patient to walk to the hospital? Although he does not have any symptom, this is not the way to treat a patient?”said Mhatre.At Shastrinagar hospital, he was kept waiting for almost three hours and then taken to Tata Amantra quarantine centre on Kalyan-Bhiwandi road.Suhasini Badekar, chief medical officer of Shastrinagar civic hospital, said, “The patient should have waited at home till the ambulance arrived. Our staff did not ask him to walk to the hospital. Since Covid cases are on the rise, ambulances are not enough. Private ambulances often refuse to ply.”She added that the hospital has two ambulances and they have hired a private one.“The chief medical officer of Shastrinagar hospital coordinates and arranges ambulance for all Covid patients,” said Pratibha Patil, epidemic officer, KDMC. There are four civic ambulances -- two at Rukminibai hospital in Kalyan and two at Shastrinagar hospital in Dombivli. There are four private ambulances in Dombivli and five in Kalyan for Covid patients. A senior officer from KDMC health department said, “If there is a delay in the arrival of an ambulance, a patient should wait. The civic staff will coordinate and send an ambulance as soon as it is available.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/i-was-made-to-walk-3km-to-hospital-in-dombivli-covid-patient/story-aH1BrF4NzKn82mDNahVneI.html
22-05-2020||City||Three youth whose picture with weapons went viral on social media held in Kupwara||A day after a gun-wielding picture of three local youth went viral on social media in north Kashmir’s Kupwara district, the police on Thursday arrested the trio with arms and ammunition after a brief exchange of fire in the Lolab Valley. The police said that a picture of three youths holding guns went viral on social media on Wednesday. The youth have claimed to have joined terror ranks.“The trio were identified as Aabid Hussain Wani, a resident of Lalpora, Zakir Rafiq Bhat, a resident of Lalpora and Javid Ahmad Dar, a resident of Thayan Kalaroos,” a spokesperson said adding that prompt contact tracing revealed their presence in the forest area of Gungbugh area of Lolab.The police said along with 28 RR and 162Bn CRPF launched a cordon and search operation in the area. “During the search operation, they (youth) started firing on the security forces. However, repeated announcements were made to persuade them to surrender and after a brief shootout, all the three were apprehended alive during the operation. Incriminating materials including arms and ammunition were recovered from their possession,” the spokesperson said.The police said that preliminary investigation reveals that these three were in contact with terrorist handlers across PoK via social media, who motivated them to pick arms and join terror ranks.“The swift intervention of police and security forces not only led to their prompt tracing but also in saving the precious lives of these misguided youths,” the spokesperson added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-youth-whose-picture-with-weapons-went-viral-on-social-media-held-in-kupwara/story-jKPwYGPLbivXMtekKaTnNI.html
22-05-2020||City||Lab staff continues Covid work near Mumbai, loses father||A laboratory technician at Wada’s Rural Hospital (RH) in Palghar district was unable to help his father, who suffered a heart attack, because he was working on swabs of suspected Covid-19 patients.On Tuesday, lab technician Prahlad Patil, 39, was working on the samples from 22 swabs from suspected Covid-19 patients. While working, he wears personal protective equipment (PPE), which includes goggles, a face shield, a mask, a head cover and gloves. When his phone rang repeatedly, Patil ignored the calls since to take a call, he has to take off some of the PPE and so risk infection from the swabs.At the time, he had no idea that the calls were from his relatives in the village of Bhopivali, who were trying to reach him because his father Amrut, 68, had suffered a heart attack and urgently needed medical attention.When Patil took a break three hours later, he found more than 50 missed calls on his phone and learnt that his father was seriously ill. Patil immediately informed Dr Pradeep Jadhav, superintendent at RH, and just as he was leaving RH, he learnt his father had passed away.“I, as the eldest son of the family, was unable to save my father, when it was expected from me, but I was also busy testing samples at the laboratory,” said Patil, who performed his father’s last rites on Tuesday evening. He doesn’t regret the choice that he inadvertently made. “I had a duty to perform,” he said.Superintendent Dr Jadhav said Patil was an inspiration. “If Patil wanted, he could have gone to attend to his father and the administration would have helped him reach the village and provided other facilities. But Patil chose not to pick up the phone and continued to work in the laboratory,” he said, adding that Patil had called right after his father’s funeral and offered to return to work. “I told him not to and that the administration will call him if his presence is needed urgently. We are sad he was not able to help his family in their time of urgency, but he is an inspiration to all medical professionals of the nation. We are proud of him,” said Dr Jadhav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lab-staff-continues-covid-work-near-mumbai-loses-father/story-I4CB1GoEcGQx9A90GHj5nO.html
22-05-2020||City||Coronavirus lockdown: Industrial body starts distribution of safety gear among frontline workers||In a bid to safeguard the frontline workers and labour amid the coronavirus outbreak, the Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU) in association with GIZ MSME Inno and central tool room (CTR), Ludhiana, on Thursday started the free distribution of face shields in industrial units.CICU president Upkar Singh Ahuja and general secretary Pankaj Sharma said a total of 5,000 face shields will be distributed in the coming days among the frontline workers, including medical staff, police personnel, sanitation and healthcare workers, and private security personnel.A meeting between the industrialists and CTR members also took place wherein the participants discussed the problems being faced by the industry at present and how the issues can be resolved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-lockdown-industrial-body-starts-distribution-of-safety-gear-among-frontline-workers/story-kM12NvHX6mFgvYOoBeoj9H.html
22-05-2020||City||Over 83,000 J&K residents brought back to date||The Jammu and Kashmir administration has so far brought back over 83,000 residents of the UT stranded in various states via 23 special trains, three flights besides scores of buses.As per the detailed breakup, the administration has evacuated 63,109 residents stranded in various other states and UTs, through Lakhanpur besides bringing back home about 19,724 people through special trains at Jammu and Udhampur railway stations. Around 501 passengers including students have been brought back through special flights, so far.Nearly, 1,755 stranded passengers have entered through Lakhanpur from May 20-21 while 804 passengers have reached today at Jammu railway station besides about 1,873 passengers have reached Udhampur railway station from Ahmedabad and Pune in two special trains. So far, eight trains have reached Jammu with a total of 7,273 stranded passengers belonging to different districts while 12,451 passengers have reached Udhampur in 15 special trains, so far.As per the official communiqué, of 63,109 returnees evacuated through Lakhanpur till May 21 included 14,374 from Punjab; 19,984 from Himachal Pradesh, 21 from Andhra Pradesh, 6,196 from Delhi, 1,323 from Gujarat, 2,488 from Rajasthan, 3,684 from Haryana, 110 from Chattisgarh, 3,227 from Uttarakhand, 859 from Maharashtra, 4,014 from Uttar Pradesh, 42 from Odisha, 244 from Assam and 941 from Madhya Pradesh, 88 from Dehradun, 1038 from Chandigarh, 666 from Telangana, 92 from Karnataka, 8 from Tamil Nadu, 52 from Chennai, 258 from Bihar, 124 from West Bengal, 26 from Jharkhand, 3 from Nepal and 3,247 from other states and UTs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/over-83-000-j-k-residents-brought-back-to-date/story-IiNKcCG4XtzMWaUPIBZSWJ.html
22-05-2020||City||A hic, hic, hurray moment for tipplers as liquor shops reopen in J&K||Love for Bacchus on Thursday saw hundreds of tipplers waiting in serpentine queues outside liquor shops that opened in Jammu and Kashmir after nearly two months.The Jammu and Kashmir excise department had authorised 41 of the 224 liquor vends to open on Thursday. Consequently, a huge rush was seen outside such vends where social distancing norms had gone for a toss.In Jammu city, where the mercury soared to 41 degrees Celsius on Thursday, the boozers were seen in long queues to purchase liquor.To implement social distancing, the police had to resort to mild cane charge at some places.On Sunday, the Jammu and Kashmir administration had levied 50% additional retail excise duty on liquor—the biggest source of income for the UT.Only on Wednesday evening, the administration had issued a new rate list for liquor shops.J&K excise commissioner Rajesh Kumar Shavan said, “Around 40 vends were opened on Thursday across J&K. The total sales figures have not been compiled as yet. We will try to open more vends from Friday.”Amid Covid-19 lockdown liquor vends were shut across the Union territory since March 25 and they were opened after 57 days.However, there had been an upward swing in bootlegging and reports of liquor smuggling from neighbouring Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/a-hic-hic-hurray-moment-for-tipplers-as-liquor-shops-reopen-in-j-k/story-GJV0wamAqdOg1qwpFsBtXJ.html
22-05-2020||City||Fee hike by private schools: Ludhiana DEO flooded with calls from parents||Day after Punjab education minister Vijay Inder Singla posted the contact numbers of district education officers (DEOs) on his Facebook page asking parents to inform them if any school violates rules and regulations regarding fee and other matters, DEO (Ludhiana, secondary) was flooded with calls since Thursday morning. “All the calls were related to fee. I have asked the parents to submit their complaints through office email also. Meanwhile, we have issued warning to over 20 schools of the district regarding students’ fee and teachers’ salary-related issues, and the schools have been asked to follow May 14 orders issued by the state education During the day, DEO (secondary) Swaranjit Kaur received more than 40 calls from parents claiming that private school authorities were asking them to pay increased tuition or admission fee.department,” she said.The DEO (secondary) also said, “If the schools still flout the orders of the state education department, we will write to the head office regarding the same and required action will be taken against the school authorities.”MORE THAN 40 COMPLAINTS RECEIVED In the last six days, the department has received more than 40 complaints against the private schools affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education, Punjab School Education Board and the Indian Certificate of Secondary Education. Majority of the parents have complained that school authorities are forcing them to pay enhanced tuition fee, while others are demanding admission fee and other charges. According to the letter issued by director public instructions (secondary) on May 14, schools that have been providing online teaching can take tuition fee. “The parents can be given option to pay the tuition fee either monthly or quarterly, no other charges should be asked from the parents during these tough times,” the letter read.In one complaint, a parent has accused a private school authority of enhancing the tuition fee from Rs 3,500 per month last year to Rs 5,200 this year. More than 10 parents have submitted the complaint against the same school to the district education office.As per the instructions issued by the state education department, no student will be denied education due to the non-payment of fee, charge only tuition fee and give option to parents to pay either the tuition fee monthly or quarterly. The school managements have also been advised not to impose the increase in the school fee for 2020-21 academic session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fee-hike-by-private-schools-ludhiana-deo-flooded-with-calls-from-parents/story-YK7wd3gDopRA98mZdIRFrN.html
22-05-2020||City||Haryana residents stranded in Ludhiana return disappointed as inter-state bus service remains suspended||As the inter-state bus service remains suspended even during lockdown 4.0, many people of different districts of Haryana, stranded in Ludhiana for almost two months, had to return disappointed from the Inter-State Bus Terminal (ISBT) here on Thursday. At least 12 people, belonging to Ambala, who turned up early to the bus stand to board buses back home, were turned back by the staff saying that the interstate bus service has still not resumed in Punjab.Rajeev Jhangra, 32, from Ambala, who had come here to attend his friend’s wedding, was among several others, who reached the bus stand in the hope of going back home. “I had read in the news that the Haryana government is working on resuming inter-state bus service, but the reality was otherwise. I request the state governments to start inter-state bus service too. People, stranded in different locations, have already exhausted their money and don’t have enough to hire private taxis,” said Rajeev. Nirmal Devi, 20, of Shekhampura village in Karnal district, who had gone to Delhi to find some work in February, and got stranded there, came here by a train. She was dropped by a police vehicle at the bus stand from the railway station around 7:30am. She said in the absence of inter-state bus service, she is left with no option but to hire a taxi. “After the lockdown was declared in March, I was stuck at my friend’s place for two months. I was eager to go back home, so I asked my friend’s brother to book any train available to Ludhiana from where I will take a bus to Ambala and further to my village,” said Nirmal Devi. Nirmal, who reached Ludhiana via Jammu Tawi Express at 1:30am on Thursday, was made to stay back at the railway station premises by police officials. “After reaching here, I came to know that there are no buses to Ambala at this time. I’m only left with Rs 750 while a private cab is costing between Rs 1,000 to Rs 1,500. I have asked my elder brother to send me some money so that I can afford a drive to home,” she said. As many as 53 buses ferried around 850 passengers on Thursday. Kuljit Singh Sodhi, station superviser, said 53 buses, both of PRTC and Punjab Roadways, ferried 850 passengers to different destinations including Jalandhar, Amritsar, Moga, Ferozepur, Patiala, Hoshiarpur, Chandigarh, Barnala, Bathinda, Muktsar and Mohali on Thursday. While buses for Jalandhar, Amritsar, Ferozepur and Patiala were able to manage 15 to 20 passengers for one trip, the buses plying to Hoshiarpur had no option, but to depart with only four passengers each. The first bus to Hoshiarpur left the ISBT around 12:45pm with only four passengers. To ensure social distancing in buses, the sitting limit on a bus has been reduced from 30 to 25 passengers on the instructions of deputy commissioner Pardeep Kumar Agrawal, who inspected the bus stand in the morning. He also directed officials to increase the number of buses to accommodate all the passengers. On Wednesday, 35 buses plied from the bus stand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/stranded-people-from-haryana-return-disappointed-from-isbt-as-inter-state-bus-service-remains-suspended/story-G5xU3MDxQTJJTbZiGAu13J.html
22-05-2020||Mumbai||Former MP Milind Deora sets up quarantine centres for Covid-19 patients in south Mumbai||To ramp up the fight against coronavirus in Mumbai – India’s worst-affected Covid-19 city – former parliamentarian Milind Deora, along with the Godrej Group, has set-up isolation and quarantine facilities in south Mumbai.The quarantine facility at St Xaviers High School in Fort has a provision of 900 beds, while the one at Najam Baug in Dongri has 100 beds. A 300-bed facility has also been set up at MP Mills in Tardeo, even as Deora has been planning to set-up another centre at Parel. All of these centres will cater to semi-critical, asymptomatic patients.While the beds in these centres have been set-up by Ahmedabad’s Anant National University, the Godrej Group has been providing the medical equipment at the centres. The beds at the centres are made out of cardboard and have been laminated, making it easier for sanitisation. On Wednesday, Deora also tweeted that the quarantine centres are monsoon-proof and are “exclusively for the residents of Mumbai’s congested slums and chawls, who cannot self-isolate”.“There is a huge problem of social distancing in the congested areas of the city. So we need to create a many centres for asymptomatic patients,” Deora said. The former Lok Sabha Member of Parliament (MP) also stated that as Mumbai’s situation is grim, owing to the increasing number of cases every day, the city needs to isolate itself from the country. “We can’t get into why it [rise in cases] happened, but now that it is a reality, Mumbai needs to self-isolate from the rest of the country,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/former-mp-milind-deora-sets-up-quarantine-centres-for-covid-19-patients-in-south-mumbai/story-4iFUUetNIU4PH6FoRGENVP.html
22-05-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government puts price cap on private hospitals for Covid treatment||The state health department has decided on a price cap for the treatment of Covid-19 at private medical facilities following reports of patients being charged exorbitant fees at private hospitals. Restrictions will also be imposed on the billing of medicines at these facilities. The government resolution (GR) with the new guidelines was passed on Thursday night. Earlier in the day, the health department fixed caps on how much private medical establishments may charge when treating Covid-19 patients. Once the GR is passed, private hospitals will be able to charge up to ₹4,000 per day for a general bed; ₹7,500 per day in the intensive care unit (ICU); and ₹9,000 per day if a patient is on a ventilator. The charges will also include meals.All private hospitals are liable to follow the rules laid down by the state government during a pandemic according to the Epidemic Diseases Act. Dr Sudhakar Shinde, chief executive officer of Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana, said, “This [amount] will include the treatment fees, consultancy fees of doctors along with other expenses. Private hospitals can’t charge more than the fixed amount.”“Some patients may need moderately-costly medicines but the hospitals can’t charge more than 10% extra for such drugs,” he added, addressing reports of private hospitals charging between 40% and 50% more than the cost price for certain prescribed drugs. “High- end drugs like immunoglobulin, Meropenem, Parenteral nutrition, tocilizumab etc can be charged at MRP,” the GR said.According to the health department, it faced severe opposition from private hospitals when arriving at these new guidelines. “In March, when private hospitals were allowed to provide treatment to Covid-19 patients, the health department only imposed a price cap of ₹4,000 on general beds. But we didn’t provide bifurcation of other medical requirements which led to the exploitation of patients which we had to amend,” said an officer privy to the developments. Chief executive officer of Lilavati Hospital Dr V Ravishankar said that the hospital would abide by orders issued by the government.Politician Rais Sheikh, who has been vocal in his criticism of private hospitals overcharging patients, said, “At a time when the government is planning to take over 80% of the beds from private hospitals, they had to decide on the rates of the beds so that the hospitals don’t exploit patients further.”Health advocates have welcomed the state health department’s decision. “Non-Covid footfalls of patients in hospitals have decreased by 90%, so only Covid-positive patients are their source of income. So, they started extracting their income from these patients which is unethical. Most of the senior citizens don’t even have medical insurance,” said Dr Manohar Kamath, general secretary of Consumer Guidance Society of India (CGSI). Many Covid-19 patients are referred to private hospitals due to unavailability of beds in the government and civic-run hospitals. HT has previously reported how a relative of a Covid-positive patient had to pay ₹16 lakh for a 15-day stay in a private hospital and how some families had to take out loans to pay private hospitals bills. On May 4, HT had reported how private hospitals like Nanavati Hospital charged ₹8,000 to ₹9,800 per personal protective equipment (PPE) even though the cost of PPE ranges between ₹350 and ₹1,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-puts-price-cap-on-private-hospitals-for-covid-treatment/story-QCHQWv0TpOIAPAMGvQmDDN.html
22-05-2020||City||Coronavirus lockdown: Owners demand reopening of gyms in Punjab||Citing losses and rising unemployment amid the coronavirus lockdown, a delegation of Punjabi Amateur Body Building Association on Thursday met sports minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi in Ferozepur and demanded that the government should immediately allow gymnasiums to open in the state.Apart from the gym owners, bodybuilders also raised a hue and cry over the closure of gyms for about two months, saying they are not able to prepare for national championships.SEEK RELIEF IN RENT, TAX OF PREMISESMembers of the association said the government has opened marketplaces where a large number of residents come at one time, but it has failed to open the gyms which improve their immunity. In the memorandum submitted to the minister, the association has also sought the state government’s intervention in providing relief to the sector, including reduction in the rate of Goods and Services Tax from 18% to 5%, rent waiver, availability of loans at lower rates and relief in property tax. Earlier, the association had submitted a memorandum with cabinet minister and Ludhiana (West) MLA Bharat Bhushan Ashu. North India chairman of Indian Body Building Federation, Ramesh Bangar, said, “Fitness sector across the state has been hit badly due to the lockdown, but the government has failed to pay heed to the problem. Athletes, trainers, administrative staff, maintenance staff, gymnasium owners, and manufacturers of supplements and wellness equipment have been affected as the gymnasiums are closed. If this continues, it will also result in unemployment.”Punjabi Amateur Body Building Association general secretary Navneet Singh said the athletes generally work as trainers in gyms that are the basic source of their income. “The gymnasium owners are also burdened with electricity bills and the rent of their premises even during the lockdown period. If the gyms are opened, the owners will take full precautions as per the guidelines issued by the government,” he said. Congress leader Kulwant Singh Sidhu said the minister has directed the officials to put up the gym owners’ demands in front of the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-lockdown-owners-demand-reopening-of-gyms-in-punjab/story-8k9rVY855wwxW3AkzUgvdM.html
22-05-2020||Chandigarh||CTU buses to resume bus service between Chandigarh and Mohali||After receiving approval from Punjab, the Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) will be resuming its inter-city bus service between Chandigarh and Mohali from Friday.“Bus service to Mohali will be resumed from Friday with additional 50 buses. The price for a seat on the non-AC CTU bus to Mohali will be ₹30,” said Uma Shankar Gupta, director, transport.The Punjab government gave a nod to the plying of CTU buses on its existing routes within the two municipal limits of Mohali’s Zirakpur and Kharar. Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said on Thursday that the buses for the secretariat employees will be run by the state government and its undertaking.Chandigarh is yet to get consent from Panchkula for the running of CTU buses between Chandigarh and Panchkula.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ctu-buses-to-resume-bus-service-between-chandigarh-and-mohali/story-69adu0Cgs1NjtAVX2Rqk4K.html
22-05-2020||Mumbai||Unable to book tickets online, say passengers||The Indian Railways opened bookings on Thursday morning, however, people complained about being unable to book tickets online along with non-availability of trains on few routes.Union railway minister Piyush Goyal had announced that 200 trains will start from June 1 across India. The tickets are available only online, at the Indian Rail Catering Tourism Corporation(IRCTC) website and mobile application. Physical ticket counters and booking through agents have been suspended from March 22. People complained of errors being displayed at IRCTC’s mobile application. “I want to travel to Rajasthan and tried to book a ticket thrice from the application but it showed that bookings were suspended and later an error message displayed on the screen,” said Aarti Singh, a Vidyavihar resident.Some also took to Twitter to complain. “As railway said yesterday that we can book ticket from 21st may onwards at 10 a.m. of 1st June ticket or so on but still I am not seeing any option for booking the ticket for the list of 200 trains now 2 PM.” tweeted @Alok_kr999“@IRCTCofficial As per Railway minister yesterday tweet Normal trains booking started from 21 st may by 10 am... but still IRCTC Not working for booking.So when Booking started...” tweeted @ABHIMAN21221117The IRCTC, however, clarified that the bookings for rail journeys started at 10 am on Thursday. “Website is working fine. Tickets are getting booked,” tweeted IRCTC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/unable-to-book-tickets-online-say-passengers/story-J1fCY40Fn83kYokaeX0IGO.html
22-05-2020||City||Kashmiri Pandits delegation meets L-G, express gratitude over new domicile law||Representatives of various political parties and organisations of Kashmiri Pandit community including All Parties Migrants Coordination Committee and Kashmiri Pandit Welfare Organisations on Thursday met Lieutenant Governor Girish Chandra Murmu at the Raj Bhavan, and expressed their gratitude towards the government and Jammu and Kashmir administration for the introduction of new domicile law in the UT.The members of these delegations termed the new domicile law of Jammu and Kashmir as historic. They also reiterated that the removal of Article 370 and Article 35A, which proved to be a stumbling block in the path of development, would take the UT to new heights of growth and development.While interacting with the members of the delegations, Murmu observed that the new domicile law will ensure equitable, balanced and inclusive development of Jammu and Kashmir and its people.A delegation of All Parties Migrants Coordination Committee (APMCC) led by its chairman, Vinod Pandit comprising various political leaders met Murmu and discussed various developmental issues of J&K. They lauded the UT administration for taking comprehensive measures to meet the aspirations of the people of J&K, particularly, the introduction of domicile law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kashmiri-pandits-delegation-meets-l-g-express-gratitude-over-new-domicile-law/story-vOAFKoNQb8uexTaIQNTm8I.html
22-05-2020||Mumbai||Doctor threatened over rumour of using Jain temple as Covid facility||With the rising cases of Covid-19, cases of discrimination against the people at the frontline are also increasing.On Wednesday, a senior doctor from Surana group of hospitals had to face the heat of locals when a rumour started spreading that he was trying to turn a nearby Jain Bhavan into a Covid treatment centre.While, the senior doctor who is the CEO of the hospital, Dr Prince D Surana, said he was making alternative accommodation for his doctors and paramedics who can’t go home with permissions from the Brihanmimbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). On May 19, he submitted a letter to Chembur Jain Bhavan seeking approval for the same.In the letter, he agreed to pay a minimal fee for the stay and also agreed to take responsibility for the cleanliness of the Bhavan. But soon, rumours started spreading and an angry local mob tried to enter his house forcefully on Wednesday and even threatened him.“These frontliners who are involved in the treatment of Covid patients can’t go home, so we need to make an alternative set up for them. The Jain Bhavan has 35 rooms which could easily accommodate around 70 of my hospital staff. So, I approached them on humanitarian grounds,” said Dr Prince D Surana.Following the incident, he has filed a written police complaint with Chembur police station. When HT contacted Rajesh Shah, a member of the trust, he refused to make any comment. “I don’t want to comment on the issue.”Medical staffers are most vulnerable to contracting the infection on duty so it is always advised to provide them alternative stay so that they don’t infect their families. In fact, doctors working in the government and civic-run hospitals follow the same protocols.“It was the decision of the BMC to let healthcare workers use the space like hundreds of other makeshift places,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/doctor-threatened-over-rumour-of-using-jain-temple-as-covid-facility/story-oWbMesJ0iYNTuz2z2s1WmM.html
22-05-2020||City||Private bus drivers, conductors demand pending wages in Himachal||The private minibus driver and conductor union under the leadership of Centre of Indian Trade Union (CITU) state president Vijendra Mehra on Thursday submitted a memorandum to the additional director of State Transport Authority regarding payment of salaries, social and financial security of drivers and conductors.They have demanded that drivers and conductors should be paid a financial aid of ₹7,500 amid coronavirus pandemic. Insurance of ₹50 lakh should be provided to private bus drivers and conductors, the letter stated adding that drivers and conductors should only be allowed to work for eight hours a day and if they work for more than eight hours then they should be paid salaries with double overtime pay.Mehra said that due to the coronavirus enforced lockdown, drivers and conductors of private buses are suffering and going through financial difficulties. They have not received their salary for March and April.The additional director assured them that the matter will be raised in a meeting with the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/private-bus-drivers-conductors-demand-pending-wages-in-himachal/story-qpKxhJMTfne4H4AAhQiorI.html
22-05-2020||Mumbai||State needs 250 more trains to take remaining migrants back home||After 441 special Shramik trains took 5.81 lakh migrant workers to their home states, the state government needs additional 250 trains to ferry the remaining migrants. The government will spend Rs 67 crore on running these special trains, of which Rs 54.76 crore have been released from the state exchequer.Over 61, 000 migrants in 51 trains returned to their respective states in the last 24 hours till Thursday evening. About 170 trains departed from Mumbai stations, including CST, Bandra, Lokmanya Tilak Terminus and Borivli. According to government estimates, another 2 lakh plus migrants have registered to return to their hometowns. “Highest number of the trains, around 225, was sent to Uttar Pradesh, followed by Bihar and Madhya Pradesh. We have a list of migrants who wish to go to North Indian states and West Bengal. We will need at least 250 more trains to depart over the next week. We have been getting more requests besides the ones registered after the lockdown,” said an official from the relief and rehabilitation department.Home minister Anil Deshmukh, in his statement on Wednesday, said that the state government has been bearing the cost of the fare. The state had transferred Rs 12.44 crore to various district collectors to pay the Railways for the tickets. The government had earlier released Rs 54.76 crore for the purpose.Ruling parties in Maharashtra and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders have been engaged in a spat over bearing the cost of the ticket fares. BJP leaders claimed that 85% of the cost is being borne by the Centre, while the Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leaders said that the entire cost was paid by the Maharashtra government. BJP state spokesperson Madhav Bhandari said that the Centre was charging only 15% of the cost of running special trains for the migrants. “Special trains are run without any subsidy during normal times and are also running at lesser occupancy. Hence the cost of running these trains is more and what is being charged to the state is 15% of the cost,” he said.Meanwhile, over 20,000 buses have been used to ferry more than 3 lakh migrants to the railway stations and borders of neighbouring states.Around 3.25 lakh migrant workers, stranded people and homeless, are staying in 3,500 shelter camps set up across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-needs-250-more-trains-to-take-remaining-migrants-back-home/story-p91bySwbSa5we4A9SiTwmJ.html
22-05-2020||Mumbai||With 2,345 more cases, Maharashtra breaches 40,000 mark; toll 1,454||Maharashtra on Thursday recorded 2,345 Covid-19 cases, the fifth day in a row of 2,000 or more fresh infections, taking the tally past the grim 40,000 mark to 41,642.Of them, 28,454 are active cases, according to the state health department. This was the state’s second-highest one-day figure after Sunday, when it reported 2,347 infections. Mumbai on Thursday reported 1,382 new cases, taking its total to 25,500. The state data also showed that the number of cases doubled in just 12 days after it crossed the 20,000 mark on May 9. Maharashtra had crossed 10,000 cases on April 30. If fresh cases continue to be reported at this rate, Maharashtra is likely to cross the 50,000 mark by May 25.The death toll of the state touched 1,454 as 64 deaths were recorded on Thursday. Of them, 41 were in Mumbai, nine in Malegaon, seven in Pune, three in Aurangabad, two in Navi Mumbai and one each in Pimpri-Chinchwad and Solapur. The death toll of Mumbai touched 882.Of the deaths, 31 were of above 60 years of age, while 29 were in the age group of 40 to 59 years and the remaining four were below the age of 40 years. Of the deceased, 38 had high-risk co-morbidities, including diabetes, hypertension and heart ailments, health officials said.Officials said that they will have to wait for the fifth incubation period to end on May 31, after which they are expecting a gradual decline in fresh cases.As more relaxations are set to come into force from Friday, the number of fresh cases in the state has started soaring, the figures indicate. The past five days have reported over 2,000 cases each. On May 17, there were 2,347 cases, May 18 had 2,033 new infections, May 19 reported 2,127 and May 20 saw 2,250 cases.The state has experienced a significant rise since May 6, when it started getting over 1,000 cases daily. In the past 16 days, the state has recorded 26,283 cases, which means on an average, it is getting over 1,600 fresh cases daily. In May (past 21 days) alone, the state has reported as many as 31,310 cases, whereas the total number of cases registered in April was 10,201.Till April-end, the number of new cases were in the range of 500, after which it turned into four digits since May 6.The fresh infections since May 6 are as follows: May 6 - 1,233; May 7 - 1,216, May 8 - 1,089; May 9 -1,165; May 10 - 1,278 cases, May 11 – 1,230; May 12 – 1,026; May 13 – 1,495; May 14 – 1,602, May 15 – 1,576 and May 16 – 1,606. Besides, on May 10, the state also declared 665 cases additionally, saying that they were registered in the few days prior to that and are being declared as per the Central government’s directive to bring the data at par with the national figures on the ICMR website.The first case of coronavirus was reported on March 9 and it took 30 days for the state to cross the 1,000 mark. For the first 10,000 cases, it took 53 days.Dr Tatyarao Lahane, director, Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER), said the state has not reached the community transmission stage — where the source of infection is unknown —as there is no exponential growth in the number of fresh cases. Also, state health authorities are expecting a flattening of the curve by this month end. “We are waiting for another 14-day incubation cycle to end on May 31, after which the rise is likely to come under control and gradually, the decline will start,” he said. He, however, also said if it doesn’t happen, then the rise may also lead to a community transmission stage.The number of recoveries has also jumped to 11,726 as 1,408 patients recovered on Thursday.The mortality rate of the state has come down to 3.54% (1390 deaths) on Wednesday, from 7.41% (148 cases) on April 13. However, it continued to be higher than the national mortality rate of 3.06% (3,435 deaths) till Wednesday, stated the data of the state medical education department.Last week, state health minister Rajesh Tope said the peak has not come yet and it may come by June-end. “All the predictions about the rise in cases in Mumbai and Maharashtra have not come true, but the numbers are rising and the peak is yet to come. Going by the mathematical predictions, the actual peak is likely to come by June-end. It means by June-end, the number of cases in Mumbai will increase four times. We are trying to prevent it from happening, but we have to be prepared for the worst and hope for the best,” Tope had said.So far, 26,865 people have been kept in institutional quarantine in the state and over 4,37,304 people have been put under home quarantine. On Thursday, the state also completed 59 days of lockdown that was imposed from midnight of March 23, a day before the nationwide lockdown imposed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. It was partially lifted on April 20 in the areas where there are no cases or minimal cases. The state government, by its notification issued on Tuesday (May 19), allowed more industrial and commercial activities in rural and semi-urban areas by excluding them from red zones. The relaxations, however, will come into force from Friday. By restructuring red zones, it has also reduced the area under curbs of the lockdown to just 18 municipal corporations, having a population of 2.91 crore. Earlier, 14 districts with a population of 6.56 crore were under the red zones. “Allowing more activities in more districts will help not only in ensuring revenue generation, but also in sending a positive message to people who are under distress due to the pandemic,” said a senior minister.On Monday, the health department also declared to have conducted 3,19,710 tests at various public and private facilities across Maharashtra. Of them, 2,78,068 people tested negative. State currently has 1,949 active containment zones. A total of 15,894 survey teams, comprising doctors and assisting staff, have screened more than 64.89 lakh people.Of the state’s 36 districts, Gadchiroli was the only one that was not having a single case till May 18. However, some migrant workers, who returned to the district from Mumbai, tested positive and now it has seven cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/with-2-345-more-cases-maha-breaches-40k-mark-toll-1-454/story-UaQMSUS8PAw1ighU2rM0cK.html
22-05-2020||Mumbai||State assures fresh loans for 11.12 lakh farmers who didn’t get waiver||Although the state government has coined 2020 as the ‘productivity year’ by setting a higher target for agriculture production to give a helping hand to the economy, 11.12 lakh farmers are yet to get the benefit of the loan waiver announced by the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. The state has directed district banks to offer them fresh credit. However, these farmers are not eligible for fresh loans for the ensuing kharif season in June, as they already have outstanding loans and banks need directives from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to release the amount. During the marathon review meeting on Thursday, this issue was prominently discussed. Besides chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray and his deputy Ajit Pawar, many senior ministers including agriculture minister Dada Bhuse, health minister Rajesh Tope and home minister Anil Deshmukh attended the meeting through video conferencing. Pawar, while admitting that the state government could not release Rs 8,100 crore towards the loan waiver to the remaining 11.12 lakh eligible farmers, assured them fresh loans. “We have deposited Rs 12,000 crore in the loan accounts of 19 lakh farmers under the loan waiver scheme,” he said.The cooperation department has directed the district banks to consider the farmers whose loan has not yet been waived off as eligible for the fresh loan. The state government has already requested the Centre for directives from RBI to give loans to such farmers. The government has set the target of crop loan of Rs 44,000 crore by commercial and district banks.CM Thackeray said that the farmers in the state can play an important role in bringing the economy out of the crisis in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. “The farmers should try to change the crop pattern amid the pandemic. Maharashtra farmers have the capacity of producing food grains that can feed the entire country. They should put in efforts in exporting their produce,” he said.Agriculture minister Dada Bhuse said that amidst the lockdown, the state government has made seeds and fertilizers available to the farmers. “We have supplied 60,000 metric tonnes of fertilizers and 20,000 quintals of seeds to 1.5 lakh farmers so far. The department has conducted workshops for 6 lakh farmers and trained them about various aspects of farming, including crops patterns,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-assures-fresh-loans-for-11-12-lakh-farmers-who-didn-t-get-waiver/story-dhQC6b9dvjQEHNVRqSOKqM.html
22-05-2020||Mumbai||No clean toilets for motorists as hotels shut||Motorists travelling with special permissions during the lockdown have reported a major issue for road travel: Shortage of clean restrooms and amenities due to hotels along the highway being shut during lockdown.Usually, national highways are dotted with brightly-lit restaurants and hotels, but the lockdown has meant they are not operational. Now, without these establishments, the highways look deserted and travellers finding it difficult to do long drives, as there is no food available and there are very few clean restrooms.“I was stuck at a relative’s house for two months in Mumbai and finally managed to get the travel permit last week. It took us almost seven hours to reach Vadodara from Mumbai and on the entire route, we only managed to find a restroom once,” said 65-year-old Bhavna Vashi, a resident of Vadodara. Vashi made the journey home in a private vehicle last week. “While the drive was quicker than usual because there were fewer vehicles on the highway, the worry was that we could not find a single restaurant open and the only restroom we found was close to a police check point, almost four hours into the drive,” she said.While Gujarat is still open to travel passes, some states, like Karnataka, have strict border entry rules in place which have pushed more highway hotels to remain shut as almost no vehicles are plying these routes.For 55-year-old Sanjay Mehta, this proved to be problem when he drove to the Karnataka border last weekend to pick up his two children, who are students at a university in Bengaluru and have been stuck in their hostel for the past two months.“Since Karnataka is not allowing vehicles, especially from Maharashtra, to enter, I first had to arrange for a vehicle to drop my children from their hostel to the Karnataka border [Belgaum]. My wife and I drove almost 500 kilometres and barely managed to find usable restrooms all the way,” said Mehta. With no hotels open, Mehta and his wife drove for six hours straight before parking their car on a petrol pump’s premises and resting for a few hours.Last week, state home minister Anil Deshmukh said Maharashtra Police had issued over 3.5 lakh e-travel passes for those involved in essential and emergency services as well as those who need to travel to other states due to an emergency.Vasant Pandharkar, from National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), Kolhapur district, said that with the number migrants walking on the roads declining sharply, the authorities and highway police are no longer arranging amenities along highways. “The number of migrants moving towards Karnataka through Maharashtra was huge between last week of March and end of April. That’s when we provided food water as well as sanitation facilities close to all our check posts at toll nakas. Since this population has declined and almost vanished in the last few weeks, we haven’t made arrangements for the same,” said Pandharkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/no-clean-toilets-for-motorists-as-hotels-shut/story-JJHH95uWF1sI7opoD2y6kJ.html
22-05-2020||Chandigarh||Speaking to media ‘unhealthy practice’: PGIMER in gag order to doctors, staff||The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research on Thursday issued a fresh gag order to its faculty members and staff amid the controversy over a community medicine expert’s report submitted to the Chandigarh administration.The report, which compared the outbreak in Mumbai’s Dharavi with that in Bapu Dham Colony in Chandigarh, had raised concern over handling of cases in the latter. A day after it was submitted, the PGIMER on Wednesday in an official release stated that no such survey has been carried. Now, PGIMER director Dr Jagat Ram has warned all faculty and other staff members that action will be taken against individuals under provisions of the Central Civil Services (Conduct Rules, 1964) for any breach. The order states that reports are appearing in newspapers wherein statements from faculty members are quoted, and that “such practice is unhealthy and undesirable”.Reiterating previous three orders issued in December 2005, May 2009 and January 2013, the order states: “It is stressed upon the faculty members and staff of the institute (that they shall desist from going to press and media without obtaining the prior permission from the competent authority.”In the recent past, the employees have been vocal about non-availability of personal protection equipment (PPE) in the hospital and the institute’s plan on managing the OPD rush, keeping in view the social distancing norms. A senior professor of the institute, wishing anonymity, said: “the faculty or staff only reaches out to media when the administration is not helpful. Such orders are against the founding principles of this institution.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/speaking-to-media-unhealthy-practice-pgimer-in-gag-order-to-doctors-staff/story-EmG2KVJPojDjIj9oe7uBxO.html
22-05-2020||City||Kalyan records 48 new cases, 2 Covid deaths||Two Covid patients died and 48 new cases were reported in Kalyan-Dombivli on Thursday, taking the death toll to 17 and total number of positive cases to 642.This is the highest single-day jump of positive cases reported in Kalyan-Dombivli. On May 17, 42 cases were by Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC).The two deaths reported on Thursday are of elderly patients, who were undergoing treatment at Covid hospitals. The new cases include four children and four senior citizens. A 65-year-old man from Dombivli who died, was admitted to RR Covid hospital in Dombivli after getting infected from a person in his building. “He was diabetic when admitted to the hospital,” said an officer of health department of KDMC.A 75-year-old man, who was admitted to Meera hospital on May 18, died. He was suffering from a lung disease. He was shifted to the Holy Cross Covid hospital where he died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kalyan-records-48-new-cases-2-covid-deaths/story-1xcxFo8uDwtc2ZlsERi9cM.html
22-05-2020||City||India-Afghanistan trade via Wagah border likely to be resumed after Eid||The trade between India and Afghanistan through Attari-Wagah border, 28 km from Amritsar, is expected to be resumed after Eid-ul-Fitr holidays (from May 25 to 27) in Pakistan. “We have already got a letter from the Centre, instructing us to be prepared as the trade between the two countries will be started soon,” said a senior customs official, who didn’t wish to be named.The central government had suspended cross-border trade through the Attari integrated check-post (ICP), which facilitates India’s trade with Pakistan and Afghanistan, on March 13 as a precautionary measure amid the coronavirus pandemic. “We are expecting that the trade with Afghanistan will be resumed from May 28. We recently got information that two trucks of dried fruits, imported from Afghanistan, will come today at Wagah side in Pakistan. These trucks’ entry into India will be allowed only after we get official information from the Centre about the opening of the trade,” said a senior official of Land Port Authority of India (LPAI).Amritsar customs commissioner Dipak Kumar Gupta said, “Our team at the ICP is prepared. The trade can resume after Eid as there are holidays in Pakistan till May 27, and nobody is working at Wagah side. Till now, we have no official information when exactly the border is opening.”On May 17, the Pakistan government had opened its borders with Afghanistan at Torkham and Chaman posts, six days per week. The importers in Amritsar are also hopeful of resumption of trade with Afghanistan soon. “We are hopeful that the trade with Afghanistan will be resumed from May 28. Some Indian importers have already placed their orders with various firms in Afghanistan for dry fruit, herbs, jeera and mulethi,” said Federation of Karyana and Dry Fruit Association president Anil Mehra. He said since the halt in trade with Afghanistan through the ICP, the importers and exporters in India and Afghanistan have been suffering a huge loss. According to Mehra, India and Afghanistan had been doing more than Rs 1,000 crore trade every year through the ICP. “Pakistan’s Prime Minister Imran Khan should also think about the opening of trade with India through the ICP. It will boost the economy of both the countries,” said Mehra. In the wake of the Pulwama attack in February 2019, the Indian government had revoked the Most Favoured Nation (MFN) status given to Pakistan and raised customs duty on every item being imported from Pakistan to 200%. Following this, import from Pakistan dipped drastically as Indian traders stopped buying goods, except low-priced commodities like rock salt.Also, Pakistani had shut trade with India after India abrogated Article 370 that granted special status to the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/india-afghanistan-trade-via-wagah-border-likely-to-be-resumed-after-eid/story-mvUoxm1kZydmeUS8HTwiWO.html
22-05-2020||City||Thane cop dies after testing positive||A 45-year-old woman police constable from Thane died within a few hours after her Covid test report on Thursday showed she was infected. The constable was suffering from a kidney ailment and had gone to a hospital for dialysis when she underwent a Covid test.“She was posted at Shrinagar police station in Thane. She was recently diagnosed with a kidney ailment. She was admitted to Jupiter Hospital in Thane. But, she died two hours after her Covid test report came,” said a senior police officer from Shrinagar police station, Thane.“She was a resident of Wagale Estate in Thane and has two children. She was in the police service for 12 years,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-cop-dies-after-testing-positive/story-CxkpoIiCIRsmPCXxSAlIbN.html
22-05-2020||Chandigarh||22,000 Punjab govt employees on course to be corona warriors||Gearing up for the next stage in the fight against coronavirus, the Punjab government has equipped nearly 22,000 employees from across the state with various role-specific training modules on iGOT platform to fight COVID-19 pandemic. A spokesperson of the state personnel department said that course details and relevant instructions on registration and accessing online training module have been circulated to all heads of departments, deputy commissioners and managing directors of boards and corporations in the state. Directions have been issued to all the state government employees to take role-specific iGOT training on https://igot.gov.in/igot/, an initiative by the Union Ministry of Personnel, and upload the document/certificate regarding completion of training on iHRMS portal.This would help the state government to have complete data on course-wise trainings undertaken by the employees, who could be further deployed by the government as and when need arises for trained manpower for containment duties amid Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/22-000-punjab-govt-employees-on-course-to-be-corona-warriors/story-GrOiRibSHx6J5Wys1MAPRP.html
22-05-2020||Chandigarh||Gold in shrines a treasure of Sikhs: Sukhbir||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Thursday said that gold and other sacred valuables belonging to the Sikh shrines “are a collective treasure of the Sikh community”.“There is no question of any individual or organisation even contemplating in the direction of donating even the smallest part of this treasure for any cause,” he said in a statement, referring to the controversy surrounding DSGMC chief Manjinder Singh Sirsa’s “inadvertent suggestion” with regard to a proposal for donations of gold by shrines of various religious communities as a help in the fight against Covid-19.Sukhbir said that strong Sikh sentiments are attached to treasures like these, some of which have immense historical and heritage value. “One must exercise extreme caution and a profound sense of responsibility while responding to any suggestion affecting even the tiniest part of that treasure,” he said.The SAD chief further said Sirsa’s statement was unacceptable and extremely avoidable, but it was good to see that he regretted it and apologised to the Sikh masses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gold-in-shrines-a-treasure-of-sikhs-sukhbir/story-w2b3boQjKBPQx2v6cMY88N.html
22-05-2020||City||After two months of lockdown, Mohali MC losses nearing ₹13 crore||A fund-starved Mohali municipal corporation has incurred losses to the tune of ₹13 crore in the last two months while the district was under a lockdown.What’s more, the civic body will not even get the goods and services tax (GST) share of ₹10 crore in lieu of octroi, which is a duty levied on various goods entering Mohali that the MC gets from the state government in the form of Punjab municipal fund.Even the unipole advertisers have refused to pay them the fee for two months amounting to ₹1.72 crore. They have, instead, written to the civic body asking for a waiver citing no revenue earned. Civic body has referred the case to the local bodies department for approval. There are around 102 unipoles affiliated with six companies in the city. Neither the ₹10 lakh rent nor the tehbazari fee (license to squat and sell goods in a particular location) that generally amounts to ₹5 lakh per month was collected by Mohali MC.NO DUTIES, CHALLANS COLLECTEDOther losses incurred include additional excise duty of ₹60 lakh; fee of around ₹7 lakh from road cuts, which is required to lay sewer and water pipes; challan fee of polythene, which is around ₹3 lakh; and building application fee, which comes to around ₹10 lakh for two months.On account of property tax, residents have just paid ₹10 lakh, which should have been ₹2 crore instead; water bill paid is only ₹5 lakh instead of ₹20 lakh.Every month, Mohali MC spends ₹5 crore on paying salaries, power bills, fuel charges, and maintaining cleanliness in the city. At present, the civic body is just left with savings of ₹22 crore to meet with various expenditures.MC commissioner Kamal Kishore Garg said, “It is a nationwide crisis and we have suffered a huge loss. We have asked the state government for funds to carry out some of our development works. There were no economical activities like collecting property tax, water bills, advertisement amount and others during the lockdown. Public dealing has begun, and we are hopeful of some recovery.” 200 TENDERS AWAIT ALLOTMENTMeanwhile, more than 200 tenders of development works worth ₹30 crore have not been allotted in the last six months. These projects pertain to development of parks, laying of paver blocks, footpath laying, re-carpeting of roads and installing outdoor gyms. In December last year, after failing to spend ₹9 crore allocated under various heads, the Mohali MC had re-appropriated the budget to shift the surplus funds to account heads with a deficit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-two-months-of-lockdown-mohali-mc-losses-nearing-13-crore/story-lI21qiZ8CuEId3DTeOQKuM.html
22-05-2020||Mumbai||Will Covid curve in Mumbai flatten in June?||On March 11, the city reported its first two cases of Covid-19. A little more than two months later, Mumbai accounts for 61.2% of the total cases in Maharashtra and has a mortality rate of 3.45% with 882 deaths, accounting for 60.6% of the state’s total deaths. Is this rise unprecedented? Has the lockdown helped and for how long should it continue?Since May 17, when Mumbai crossed 20,000 reported cases, its daily count of new cases started crossing 1,000. On May 17, the city reported 1,545 new cases, followed by 1,185 on May 18; 1,411 on May 19; and 1,372 on May 20. As of Thursday, Mumbai has recorded 25,500 Covid-positive cases.Officials attribute the spike to the city’s high population density, large slum population, more testing, and violating distancing guidelines. However, the authorities also said they had anticipated this trajectory at the beginning of the outbreak and expect the situation to come under control by mid-June.When will the curve flatten?It took 20 days for Mumbai to record 100 cases, between March 11 and March 31. Then, after 10 days, the city saw 1,000 cases on April 10. After 26 days, it crossed 10,000 cases on May 6. On May 17, the city had 20,000 reported cases.State surveillance officer Pradip Awate said, “This trajectory of cases was anticipated. We were already studying scenarios in other countries. When the first case came to Maharashtra on March 9, Italy, Spain, France, Iran were already seeing these trends. So we had expected this kind of rise. That’s why Maharashtra announced a lockdown before the Centre.”Municipal commissioner IS Chahal, who took charge of BMC on May 8, said last week that by the end of May, he expects 45,000 to 46,000 cases in Mumbai.Awate pointed to the example of China, which took approximately 72 days to flatten the curve after announcing its lockdown. Mumbai is likely to take eight to 10 days longer, given the population density of its slums.“We are already two months into the lockdown and there are 10 more days of May left. So the end of May would bring us to the 70-day mark. Let’s give Mumbai another 15 days, over and above the world average. So we are looking at mid-June for the curve to improve,” he said.Dr Om Shrivastav, who is part of the task force appointed by the Maharashtra government in April to tackle the state’s mortality rate, reiterated that the numbers in Mumbai follow an expected trend. “These are expected numbers, due to the pattern of the infection, trend in other countries, and for the population we have. When you test more, and adequately, you will find that the numbers increase. I don’t think we should be discouraged by a number. We should be looking at that percentage of the population who are going to require hospitalisation, intensive care, and ventilation. So long as we are able to provide services to those people, numbers in themselves mean nothing,” he said. Reasons for high number of casesMumbai’s high population density and many slum pockets are among the factors contributing to the spike in reported cases along with the number of tests conducted in the city.Awate said, “Mumbai’s biggest enemy is its density — 20,000 per sqkm, and it is much greater in slums. About 45% to 50% of the population resides in slums. Current cases are mainly coming from slums. Even when you have a lockdown, it is very difficult to religiously implement it in a slum where up to 10 people are residing in a room admeasuring 8x8 feet.”When Maharashtra reaches 199 cases per 1 lakh in the population, Mumbai’s slums, are expected to record 550 cases per 1 lakh, said Awate, adding that this proportion varies according to economic classes.Of the 24 wards in the city, those with the most number of Covid-19 cases also have one or more slum pockets or congested areas. For example, Dharavi is in G/North ward; Byculla and Nagpada are in E ward; Sewri and Wadala are in F/North ward; Worli Koliwada, Janata Nagar, Adarsh Nagar, and the chawls of Lower Parel are in G/South ward; Kurla is in L ward, and the slums of Govandi and Mankhurd are in M/East ward. In wards with a comparatively lower number of cases, such as T ward in Mulund and R/North ward in Borivli, cases are usually concentrated in slum pockets.While some citizens violating lockdown restrictions may be responsible for a small percentage of the rising numbers, Mumbai has also carried out rigorous testing, say authorities. For every million of the population, Mumbai has conducted about 11,784 tests and altogether, 1.53 lakh tests have been conducted so far. As of May 14, when Mumbai had conducted 1.27 lakh tests, it had surpassed test figures for Gujarat, Karnataka, West Bengal, and Delhi.Kiran Dighavkar, assistant commissioner of the G North ward, said, “People ask me why Dharavi cases are rising. Cases are a result of massive screening. We have screened as many as 4 lakh people and tested more than 3,500 people. Success shall be measured on early timely treatment, fewer deaths, and more discharges.” Has community transmission begun? Community transmission is formally announced by the government if two trends are noticed among positive patients: Persons testing positive despite the absence of relevant travel history and/ or contact with another positive patient, which means there is no way of tracing how the infection was contracted.A senior official from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said there were some early signs of community transmission in the city. “Mumbai is getting cases in clusters, such as the Dharavi and Worli Koliwada phenomena. You cannot deny that these are early signs of community transmission,” said Awate. However, since such cases still account for less than 30% of the total number, the authorities are not saying community transmission has started.Another civic official pointed out, “Cases from fever clinics in containment zones account for less than 1% of the total cases.” As of Wednesday, BMC has found 683 of its total positive cases from fever clinics.Has the lockdown helped curb spread?Officials say the lockdown is achieving its purpose of pacing out the spurt in reported cases and giving hospitals time to ramp up facilities. It is also helping develop some amount of immunity in the population in a controlled manner, without burdening healthcare facilities. “As cases rise exponentially, if there is a boom in the first few days, the situation could go out of hand. We have managed to steer away from that scenario due to the lockdown,” said one civic official. Sanjeev Jaiswal, additional municipal commissioner, BMC, and in-charge of drawing up a post-lockdown plan for the city, said, “The city is slowly opening up. Proof of it is the increased traffic at checkpoints set up by Mumbai Police now in comparison to last month.” He pointed out that more shops, like grocery and hardware stores, were operational. “The city will have to start opening up in a staggered manner and a decision on this will be taken after consulting the state government,” said Jaiswal.However, for the immediate future, the lockdown remains in place. “It is not wise for Mumbai to open up so soon. We may be looking at lockdown remaining in Mumbai till the end of June, and red zones in Mumbai should not start for a few days even after that. Let the curve stabilise,” said an official.Jaiswal said BMC was prepared for another spike in cases when restrictions ease. “We are ramping up medical facilities,” he said. “It is important that healthcare is able to handle the spurt. Then we are okay.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/will-covid-curve-flatten-in-june/story-kyuMf780dPbkap75WemrCL.html
22-05-2020||Delhi||Cops must carry extra masks, sanitisers for arrested accused||All investigating officers of the Delhi Police must carry extra masks and hand sanitisers and give these to suspects before arresting them . The new rules issued by police commissioner SN Shrivastava also makes it mandatory to sanitise all anti-riot gear such as canes, batons and barricades before they are used for crowd control measures. The traffic have been told to insist on digital payments for traffic violation fines. Shrivastava said all personnel must follow these rules as the force is now back to focusing on crime prevention and detection duties.With the lockdown norms eased, markets have opened and traffic resumed in the national capital. A new set of rules and regulations have been set in place for the police personnel across the city to follow until the threat of the Covid-19 ceases to exist. Until last Monday, there were few relaxations and only citizens working with essential services were allowed on the roads. As a result, Delhi’s crime rate too had dipped. With fewer crimes reported at stations since the lockdown, police were also focusing on feeding the underprivileged, managing containment zones, conducting security checks on roads, and ensuring social distancing among citizens. Starting Thursday, all investigating officers were given extra pair of face masks and sanitisers. The sanitisers are a must along with the gun or the cane that police carry. Shrivastava wrote in a circular that the two must be given to every arrested person. The police chief also wrote to the 90,000 personnel that if a person is arrested for any bailable offence, the person should be granted bail immediately without prolonging their stay on the station premises.During a recent meeting of the top brass of the city police, it was decided that for crowd control police would use ropes along with barricades. “It is also mandatory for us to sanitise the anti-riot equipment such as lathis, shields and barricades. It is a drill that we have to follow before every protest now,” said a police officer, who wish not to be named. Over the last two months, since the nationwide lockdown, there have been very few protests in the city. There are around 9,000 to 13,000 protests held in Delhi each year. “Now that we are back to out regular work, we realise that a lot has changed. We have been told to use our own pens and not share them. There are separate and designated places at police stations for visitors. Visitors will also be provided masks if they don’t have one. All arrested persons in the station lock-up are being kept apart ensuring social distancing. Some of our field staff are directly going home and not coming to the station. This is all part of the new order,” another officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/cops-must-carry-extra-masks-sanitisers-for-arrested-accused/story-GlV9wgfCaOlQkEVkzfAi1K.html
22-05-2020||City||Tehsildar filmed kicking migrant in Palghar; minister orders probe||The tehsildar of Palghar, Sunil Shinde, is under investigation after a video clip was shared on social media of him kicking and abusing a migrant worker on Wednesday afternoon. State revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat has ordered a probe into the incident.Around 5,200 migrants had assembled at the Aryan Grounds to collect their tokens to board the three trains scheduled to depart from Palghar to north India. In the video, which has since gone viral, Shinde is seen kicking and abusing a migrant who asked him for a token.Responding to the incident, Thorat said the state government has taken serious note of what happened and a probe has been ordered. Kailash Shinde, Palghar district collector, said, “The probe by the sub-divisional magistrate has been ordered. He will look into all facts, allegations, and circumstances in which the incident occurred. A course of action will be decided after the report is submitted.”With inputs from Surendra P Gangan||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/palghar-tehsildar-kicks-migrant-video-goes-viral-revenue-minister-orders-probe/story-aX5jTSRPq9cSGA3rhVNdAN.html
22-05-2020||Chandigarh||Follow Mahatma Gandhi’s self-sufficiency model to get through trying times, says his great-grandson||Following Gandhi’s self-sufficiency model will help the government get through the Covid-19 pandemic, said Tushar Arun Gandhi, great-grandson of Mahatma Gandhi.He was speaking during a webinar on salt satyagraha and self-sufficiency was organised by department of Gandhian and peace studies in collaboration with the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) Network Chair at Panjab University on Thursday.Focusing on Gandhian philosophy, he said, “Making a collective effort, we should learn from our freedom struggle and try to live for the family, society and for the nation.” Raj Kumar, vice-chancellor of Panjab University, said, “If we would have followed the Gandhian ideology of self-sufficiency model, the migrant labourers would not have suffered amid the Covid-19 outbreak.”He said, “The concept of sustainable development correlates with the Gandhian philosophy of using resources judiciously for one’s needs and leaving the rest for others.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/follow-mahatma-gandhi-s-self-sufficiency-model-to-get-through-trying-times-says-his-great-grandson/story-OHceYxXmb5JzqywuYje89K.html
22-05-2020||City||First case of Covid-19 in Mandoli jail complex||The Mandoli jail complex registered its first case of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), with a prison officer testing positive on Wednesday. This comes around a week after an inmate of Rohini jail tested positive — the first case of the contagious infection in a Delhi prison. Seventeen more cases have emerged in Rohini jail since then.Since outsiders like family members and lawyers have for the past two months been banned from visiting the jail’s premises, officials in the prison department said they suspect the transmission inside the two complexes may be linked to infected prison officials who did not display symptoms of Covid-19. Delhi’s Tihar jail, which currently houses around 9,500 prisoners and is the most crowded prison complex in the country, had not reported a single case of Covid-19, as of Thursday night.Mandoli jail has around 3,100 inmates, while Rohini has 1,300.The Capital recorded 571 new cases of Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the total to 11,659, of whom 194 have died.In Mandoli, the infected deputy prison superintendent complained of fever on May 11, and went on leave. The prison’s director general, Sandeep Goel, confirmed the officer tested positive. “He was taking basic precautions like wearing masks and regularly using sanitisers. He was in contact with four people in the prison — two inmates and two staff members, who have been tested. All four are asymptomatic and have been sent to self-isolation,” he said. In the first positive case in Rohini jail, a 29-year-old inmate tested positive earlier this month after he was admitted to DDU Hospital for a surgery. The prisoner, who did not display any symptoms, had been admitted to the hospital for the surgery on May 10. After his results emerged, the Rohini jail administration tested other prisoners and jail officers whom he had been in contact with. Of these, 15 inmates and a jail officer tested positive for the disease. On Tuesday, an assistant superintendent of the Rohini prison also tested positive for the contagious disease.A senior government official, who has been part of the contact-tracing exercise said the virus may have made its way to Rohini jail through an asymptomatic prison officer. All inmates in the three jails — Tihar, Rohini and Mandoli — have no physical contact with outsiders except the prison staff. The biweekly visits of family members were cancelled in the third week of March to contain the spread of the disease. They are in touch with relatives through the jails’ landline facilities, and court hearings are also held through video conference. New prisoners are lodged separately in isolated cells for 14 days before being allowed to mingle with others. “None of the inmates who tested positive were new inmates. They were not in contact with anyone outside the prison for the last three or four months. The only way they may have been infected is through one of the jail officials. Jail officials cannot be blamed, because they showed no symptoms of the disease,” a senior Delhi home department official, who did not wish to be named, said. Goel said the prison department has made it compulsory for all staff to wear masks in the jails’ premises.“The jail staff must maintain social distance themselves, while also directing prisoners to follow the same. Any prison official who shows flu-like symptoms is being sent on leave. Many of our officers have relatives engaged in front-line work, and they have quarantined themselves at home. If a family member or relative display symptoms, prison officers get tested as well, and join work only if they test negative. We also have isolation centres for prison officers within the prison complex, but outside the jails. Tihar does not have a single case so far. We are taking all precautions to contain the disease.”The prison department has released around 3,000 prisoners on parole and interim bail to decongest the jails. Earlier this month, in Mumbai’s Arthur Road jail where 4,000 prisoners are lodged, 184 inmates and prison staff tested positive within a week of one prisoner contracting the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/first-case-of-covid-19-in-mandoli-jail-complex/story-HgTRitZ65DGvZMaSIkyQUP.html
22-05-2020||Delhi||Closures still in place, snarls now a norm on Delhi’s borders||Since Tuesday, when restrictions were eased to allow movement of people during the fourth phase of the nationwide lockdown, Delhi’s borders with Noida, Ghaziabad and Gurugram have become hot spots of chaos. Serpentine queues of vehicles, drivers honking constantly and the respective state police turning back people from Delhi have become recurrent scenes, with both Uttar Pradesh and Haryana refusing to unseal the borders that were sealed last month to prevent the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). With the Covid-19 case count rapidly increasing in Delhi – it touched 11,659 on Thursday --- these states are insisting that allowing people from the national capital to enter would lead to a further spread of the virus. In effect, for those living in National Capital Region (NCR), lockdown 4.0 had brought no relief to their lives or movement.While the Delhi government has lifted the ban on passenger movement between Delhi and NCR, district administrations of Noida, Ghaziabad, Gurugram, Sonepat and Faridabad are allowing only those with a valid interstate pass and essential service providers to pass through. Lack of clarity in rules adopted by the state governments has led to confusion and chaos at the borders. Senior Delhi traffic police officers said over the past two days, severe snarls have been reported at the border areas. On Thursday, long jams were seen on the Delhi-Noida-Direct (DND) Flyway. Long tailbacks were also seen near Gurugram, Ghaziabad and Faridabad borders.Near the Ghazipur border, too, vehicles began lining up from 5pm, trying to cross from the capital to Noida. S Aravindh, a banker who works in Delhi and lives in Noida Extension, said while he has a pass issued for “emergency services”, there is a long wait at the borders.“The drive in the morning is still less cumbersome but by evening, on my way back to home (Noida), they (police) stop every car and argue with its occupants. They allow some and turn away the others,” Aravindh said.Close to 1,000 people were turned back by the UP Police at the three entry points to Noida—UP Link road, DND Flyway and Kalindi Kunj—on Wednesday, according to Noida additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP) Kumar Ranvijay Singh.On Thursday, Noida authorities allowed the movement of advocates following a Delhi high court order directing them to do so. Officials in Noida said they have sought clarification from the Uttar Pradesh government regarding the entry of people from Delhi. Till then, the borders will remain sealed.“We are allowing people involved in essential services and those with valid passes to pass through. We don’t have directions to allow everyone to enter Noida so far. We allowed advocates to travel on Thursday after the Delhi high court’s directed us to do so. But we have asked them to get passes made. Nearly 1,000 people were stopped from entering Noida on Wednesday from Delhi,” ADCP Singh said.Delhi traffic police washed their hands off the confusion saying they are allowing people from NCR towns to enter Delhi without restrictions.“Since the Delhi government has allowed offices to function with a full workforce, we are not issuing any movement passes for intercity movement. However, there are restrictions at the borders because of which there are jams on the Delhi side. The governments of UP and Haryana will have to sort this out,” a senior traffic police officer said. On Thursday, jams were reported since 4pm from National Highway-1, connecting Delhi to towns such as Sonepat, Panipat and Karnal, and NH-8 going towards Gurugram.Swati Singh, a resident of southwest Delhi’s Dwarka, who works in Gurugram, said she was called to work from Monday, but asked her office to allow her to work from home. “There is so much confusion on crossing the border that it will be more productive to work from home. On Wednesday, I spent nearly an hour to cross over to Delhi,” Singh said.Gurugram police commissioner Muhammad Akil said there were issues only during peak hours. “The challenge is only in the morning as people try to sneak in before office hours. Our teams are vigilant and barricades have been set up. We are closely monitoring the situation and changes will be made only after the pandemic has been brought under control,” he said.Noida police are advising residents to check the status of restriction before entering Delhi without a movement pass.But with railways scaling up its operations and the Centre all set to start domestic flights from May 25, residents of NCR say there should be some coordination between the state governments.“Despite the relaxation in norms by the Centre, there is no coordination between various state governments in the NCR,” Rejimon CK, member of the Dwarka Forum, said.Urban transport experts say relaxing restrictions, especially related to transport, in Delhi has little meaning until it is implemented in the other NCR cities.“The influence area of a city (like Delhi) is much beyond the political or administrative boundaries. In the post-Covid scenario, there is a need to plan for Delhi Urban Agglomerate, which includes Noida, Gurugram, Ghaziabad, Faridabad etc. With Metro and other public transport between these cities yet to start, it is difficult to revive economic activity,” said Amit Bhatt, director transport, WRI India.Transport experts say as people will have to take precautionary measures like social distancing, there is a need to have a detailed transport plan for the NCR.“There are people who have to travel from Noida to Gurugram and are forced to take multiple passes from different authorities. There should be a single pass system for the NCR. This not only saves commuters’ time but also ensures smoother enforcement,” Sewa Ram, professor of transport planning at the School of Planning and Architecture, said. The Delhi government said it has requested the UP and Haryana governments to lift the ban on commuter movement. Jasmine Shah, vice-chairman of Dialogue and Development Commission of Delhi, said, “We have requested the UP and Haryana governments to allow interstate movement of people now that the Centre has relaxed norms. Cities in the NCR, especially with which we share our borders, are interdependent. The stand taken by the governments is unfortunate. We have to now try and restore normalcy.” KK Rao, Faridabad commissioner of police, said, “The situation was under control but after two people, including a doctor, who were frequently visiting Delhi, tested Covid-19 positive, only health workers and ambulances have been permitted to cross the border without movement passes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/borders-become-hot-spots-of-chaos-as-states-refuse-entry-to-people-from-delhi/story-MgnIGLYktO8NiyMLsBWiqK.html
22-05-2020||City||Pandemic sets back Delhi govt’s bus procurement project by a year||The Delhi government’s project to strengthen the Capital’s public transport system by adding a new bus fleet has been adversely affected by the nationwide lockdown imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19 as the procurement and arrival of more than 2,800 buses is set to be delayed by almost a year due to revenue shortfall and limitations in manufacturing, according to senior government officials.The demand for more buses assumes more importance now as the 2,000 buses presently plying are allowed to carry only 20 passengers each due to social distancing norms against the usual capacity of 40. The average daily ridership of Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) before the lockdown was around 4 million. The Delhi government on July 11 last year announced its final procurement plan for 4,000 buses -- all of which should have arrived maximum by this month, according to the schedule shared by the authorities at that time. Ten months later, 1,150 buses including 1,000 non-AC standard-floor and 150 AC low-floor buses, are plying on Delhi’s roads.Transport minister Kailash Gahlot said the government’s procurement schedule of the 1,000 DTC buses, 1,000 electric buses and 1,000 low-floor CNG buses could now take one full year to be completed. He said in the best-case scenario, a first batch (100 or so) of the remaining 2,850 buses could arrive only by the end of this year. “The delay will not just be because of the financial constraints we are facing at the moment, but also because of problems faced by bus manufacturers owning to the lockdown. Thankfully, we at least received all of the 1,000 CNG standard-floor buses before the lockdown began on March 25,” Gahlot said.The government was to receive about 100 AC low-floor buses from JBM Auto Ltd. in April. But they could not arrive because the lockdown got extended. “Even though the restrictions have been relaxed , these buses, even if they arrive in Delhi, cannot be used because they are BS-IV vehicles and could not be registered by April 30, the deadline set by Supreme Court for the registration of BS-IV vehicles,” said one of the officials cited above. Bus manufacturer JBM Auto Limited said it is awaiting directions from the government with regard to the registration of BS-4 buses that was delayed due to the lockdown, so that their buses can be put to use.“The company re-opened its plant in Kosi only a week ago and that it is facing shortage of manpower. We are working only on one shift as there is very limited manpower. Many of our workers are in their home towns. Only maintenance work is being carried out as of now. A few people have been issued passes in our plant by the UP government to comply with the Covid-19 guidelines,” said Nishant Arya, Executive Director, JBM Group.Delhi has a fleet of 6,487 buses of which more than 2,000 are being used for public transport and around 1,400 are on Covid-19 duty. A reason for not being able to run the remaining buses is that the drivers and conductors who live in NCR cities such as Noida, Gurugram, Ghaziabad or Faridabad are facing issues in reaching the depots due to border restrictions by UP and HaryanaAccording to a second senior official cited above, the lockdown forced DTC to ask finance department to utilise funds (amounting to Rs 325.5 crore and meant to meant for procuring 1,000 AC low-floor buses) to pay salaries to its employees in the coming months if its financial situation does not improve. The main components of DTC’s operating cost are wages and salaries, accounting for around 60%, fuel (CNG), which accounts for nearly 20%, and annual maintenance (nearly 10%).With public transport shut for more than 50 days and schools closed, DTC is losing more than Rs 2 crore every day in revenue from bus journeys -- who us saying this. To foot the bills for salaries, pensions, statutory and other liabilities, DTC utilised Rs 512.50 crore, which the Delhi government disbursed to the corporation as grant-in-aid for the first quarter of 2020-21. According to the Delhi economic survey 2018-19, the working losses of DTC were Rs 1,750.37 crore. A fresh tender for 1,000 electric buses also could be floated not before July, a third official said.The officials said restrictions in the number of passengers in public transport will continue till things normalise. Delhi Metro, which carries around 2.7 million passengers daily, is also shut, putting extra load on DTC.Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director at the Centre for Science and Environment, said there could be some learnings from the challenge. “Social distancing rules have given an opportunity to explore ways of decongesting public transport for the future. Even when the Metro opens, it would not suffice because of the new rules. So, the government must use whatever resources are available. Hiring private buses immediately is need of the hour,” she said. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pandemic-sets-back-delhi-govt-s-bus-procurement-project-by-a-year/story-4IqlogCf11atda55JCmM8J.html
22-05-2020||Delhi||Parks across Delhi to reopen, with curbs aplenty||More than 14,000 parks in the Capital, including the ones in residential neighbourhoods, will be opened in the next two days -- but with certain riders and restricted timings to prevent the spread of Covid-19.The park can be accessed for three hours each in mornings and evenings -- between 7-10 am and 3:30-6:30pm. People above 65 years of age and children younger than 10 will not be allowed and those with chronic diseases have been advised to stay away. Masks will be compulsory and so will be other Covid-related health protocols such as social distancing. The open gym equipment, swings and group yoga or exercise sessions are prohibited.The municipalities, which do not have enough enforcement staff, expect people to voluntarily follow the rules.The three municipal corporations of Delhi -- south, north and east -- on Thursday took the decision to open parks after the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) brought out a similar order on Wednesday and opened Lodhi Garden, Nehru Park and Talkatora Garden.“We had been getting many requests to open these parks. People need fresh air and exercising is vital to maintain immunity. We got to know that a huge number of walkers thronged the Lal Bagh Botanical Garden in Bengaluru when it reopened on Tuesday. Hence, we decided to open our parks with some restrictions from Friday,” said Ashish Priyadarshi, director of horticulture department, north corporation.The north corporation has 6,095 parks spread over 2,200 acres, including Ajmal Khan Park in Karol Bagh. The East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) will open its 2,097 parks -- the largest and most popular of which are Jheel Park near the Welcome Metro Station, Mahila Park in Trilokpuri and Bahubali Enclave Park near Karkardooma Court -- from Saturday.“We cannot do a thermal scanning of people visitors nor can our limited number of security guards enforce social distancing. Users will have to do self-restriction for their own good,” said RK Singh, chief of horticulture in EDMC.The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) will open its parks. But the popular ‘Waste to Wonder’ park near Sarai Kale Khan and ‘Nandan Van’ in Greater Kailash will remain shut. “The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), in its May 18 order, said entertainment parks should remain shut till May 31. So, we will keep these two closed for now. Our 6,000 colony parks will be open from Friday,” Alok Singh, horticulture chief, SDMC, said. The six functional biodiversity parks of Delhi -- Yamuna Biodiversity Park near Wazirabad, Aravalli Biodiversity Park near Vasant Kunj, Tilpath Valley near Haryana border, Tughlaqabad Biodiversity Park, Neela Hauz and Kamla Nehru Ridge -- will stay closed till May 31. “Ironically, Friday (May 22) is International Biodiversity Day, which we used to celebrate with a lot of fanfare holding lectures for students. We used to tell them that disrupting healthy ecosystems such as forests through tree felling leads to more contact between wildlife and humans, leading to zoonotic diseases. Covid-19 is one of them,” said Faiyaz Khudsar, scientist in-charge at the Yamuna Biodiversity Park.M Shah Hussain, scientist in-charge at Aravalli Biodiversity Park, said their parks are anyway serving the “ecological purpose for now.” “Our parks are providing oxygen and controlling the city’s temperature. When the government allows, we will open up for the public as well,” he said.Lodhi Garden got 350-400 walkers and joggers after nearly two months on Thursday. Nirbhaya Tiwari, an evening shift guard on its gate number 1, said they were required to brief visitors about the norms. “Everyone has to wear a mask and no one is allowed to sit in the garden. We are not allowing people above 60 years and children below 10 years. All toilets are being sanitised and arrangements of water and hand wash are made,” he said.Only four gates are allowed to remain open between 7 am and 10 am and 3:30 pm and 6:30 pm. “Only gate number 1, 3, 4 and 7 are open,” Tiwari said.Harpreet Kurwi, an architect from Safdarjung Enclave, arrived at Lodhi garden around 4:30 pm. Kurwi, a regular visitor till the lockdown was announced, said, “It’s very suffocating at home for regular walkers like us. When I got to know that the park is opening I got so excited. It feels refreshing,” he said.Another regular visitor, Paras Arora, who works in Gol Market, said he walked for 30 minutes on the first day after the lockdown. “The lockdown has made us very lazy. I could walk for only 30 minutes today. It’s a little difficult because of the mask,” he said.Priya Singh, a housemaker from Lodhi colony, said, “I had come twice in the last two weeks to check with the guard here if they are opening the park. It’s a big relief today,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/municipalities-to-open-parks-over-next-two-days-people-asked-to-follow-covid-health-protocols/story-KvxzzffJWRjrGX0KcwVP9L.html
22-05-2020||Delhi||Migrants again turned away from screening centre, govt to increase centres and trains||Raghu Nandan Pandit, a daily wage labourer, was among hundreds of migrant workers who were turned back by officials from a screening centre in Lajpat Nagar on Wednesday despite receiving a text message confirming his reservation for a Bihar-bound Shramik Special Train. “I vacated my room in Seelampur last night after receiving the confirmation message for the train. Only I know how I have spent the last two months. My landlord would give me one bucket of water for a day for washing, cleaning, cooking and everything else. Where do I go now?” he said. Hundreds of migrants on Thursday complained that they were turned back from the screening centre in Lajpat Nagar despite receiving confirmation messages for their reservation. HT had on Thursday reported a similar incident from two screening centres in east Delhi.As a solution to the problem, the Delhi government has now decided to increase the number of screening centres in the city. A government spokesperson said, “It’s come to our notice that a large number of people are turning up to the screening centres even without receiving messages. We have now decided to increase the number of these centres and also the number of trains in the next few days. It will help us screen more migrant workers per day.” Presently, there are 30 screening centres across the city.On being asked why the messages were sent to more migrants than the number of available seats, the official said, “We have not sent extra messages. They may have brought more people with them on the basis of one message.”However, stranded migrants outside the centre showed messages of reservation for trains to Patna, Bhagalpur, and Muzaffarpur that they had received the previous night. “Your journey has been scheduled for May 21. The train will stop at BKM and buses will be provided for other districts near these stations. Food and other arrangements have been made. You are requested to come for screening on May 21 at 8am with your family and luggage,” read one of these messages.Amarjeet Kagadia, 19, who used to work in a factory in Bawana, said that he had also vacated his room the previous night after receiving the message and left for the screening centre around 3am on Thursday. “I was left with ₹1,500, of which I paid ₹350 to the auto driver to take me to the centre. Now, the police are telling me to go back. Where do I go? I have never felt so helpless. Whey did they ask us to come here today if we were not supposed to go home?” he said.Around 4pm, a group of angry migrants was seen holding a meeting. Addressing them all, Raheem, who used to work at a bag printing unit in Nabi Karim, said, “We should find work in Bihar. We should demand our political leaders there to restart all mills so that we can get employment opportunities there. No one should have to come to work in Delhi.”The migrants decided not to leave and continue to stay outside the centre. “Why should we leave and where should we go? I’ve three daughters with me. How can I take them here and there? We don’t even have money to commute now,” Bhawari Devi, who was used to work in a toy factory in Bawana, said.When contacted, Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said that he was aware of the situation. “We are putting them up in various schools and will send them home by train on Friday,” he said.Around 7.30pm, the officials at the centre asked the stranded migrants to stay put; however, they were not allowed inside the school. “We have been asked to wait here and not leave. We just don’t have any choice now. It’s been a very tiring day. I can’t walk now,” Ranjeet, who wants to home to Bhagalpur to take care of his wife who is in her last trimester of pregnancy, said.Despite several attempts, south-east district magistrate Harleen Kaur did not respond to calls and messages sent by HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/migrants-again-turned-away-from-screening-centre-govt-decides-to-increase-the-number-of-centres-and-trains/story-ke4OR4rNBalSmR6hkbjzkM.html
22-05-2020||City||Two tankers with 50,000 litres of illicit spirit seized in Mohali’s Zirakpur, four persons held||Four persons including two drivers were arrested for stealing extra neutral alcohol (ENA) from two tankers containing 50,000 litres in Zirakpur on the intervening night of May 20-21, police said.ENA is the primary raw material for making alcoholic beverages. Those arrested were identified as drivers Gurmeet Singh of Patiala and Amarjit Singh of Lalru, Kamal Deep Singh of Ambala and his accomplice Partap Singh Virk of Zirakpur. They were produced before the court on Thursday and sent to two-day police remand.Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said, “The liquor smugglers who were escorting the tanker carrying illegal alcohol were nabbed. The owner of the premises who was moving in a black Fortuner SUV was also nabbed.”DC said Kamal and Virk, who were in the SUV, threatened the police team. “The accused were found to be offenders wanted by the police in various cases,” said the DC.As per the police, Gurmeet and Amarjit had brought 25,000 litre each from Rajpura and were on their way to Chandigarh. They were parked in Zirakpur and were transferring the spirit from the tanker to plastic drums when the team raided them.Police have registered a case under sections 420 (cheating), 379 (theft), 188 of the Indian Penal Code and under the Excise Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-tankers-with-50-000-litres-of-illicit-spirit-seized-in-mohali-s-zirakpur-four-persons-held/story-6Tb2Pbb33kYmwEZOZdYRXM.html
22-05-2020||Chandigarh||Central ACs should run 2 hrs before office opens: Haryana govt advisory||Sounding a word of caution on the use of central air-conditioning in institutions and malls in view of the prospects of Covid-19 spread, the Haryana government on Thursday said it is advisable to avoid central air-conditioning to the extent possible. Adopting new central guidelines prepared by central public works department (PWD), the state government said if running central air-conditioning becomes unavoidable, then air-handling units (AHUs) of central ACs should run on maximum fresh air two hours prior to the opening of office and two hours after the closing to ensure that no contamination remains. AHUs are the lungs of a heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC) system. It is a device used to regulate and circulate air as a part of HVAC system. It takes outside air, filters it, cool or heat it and supply it as fresh air to the air-conditioned area.The guidelines also said that AHUs are advised to be operated on maximum fresh air and heat recovery wheels should not be used at all. Experts said that thermal wheels allow transfer of heat between two adjacent airflows and help in saving energy. The air being expelled is used to cool the hot incoming air during summers using thermal wheels.The best cooling options without aiding infection or contamination are window-fitted desert coolers, window and split ACs, fans aided by maximum fresh air intake by opening doors and windows and supported by air replacement through exhaust fan facilities in nearby areas, stated the new guidelines. Maximum caution should be exercised to minimise the chances of spread of Covid-19 through airflow in enclosed spaces like residences, offices, meeting and assembly places, the guidelines added. Guiding principles for running air coolers and air conditionersTemperature settings of all air conditioning devices should be between 24-30 °CRelative humidity should be 40-70%Fresh air intake should be ensuredRe-circulation of air should be avoided Ensure adequate cross ventilationReplace air using exhaust fans Air sanitisation should be frequent done by regularly cleaning and sanitising filters of indoor unitsAvoid being in direct line of airflow Decontaminate surfaces frequently Observe social distancing normsA recent research report by Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Guangzhou, China discussing the Covid-19 outbreak associated with air conditioning in a restaurant concluded that in this outbreak, droplet transmission was prompted by air-conditioned ventilation. “The key factor for infection was the direction of the airflow. One patient was afebrile and 1% of the patients in this outbreak were asymptomatic, providing a potential source of outbreaks among the public. To prevent spread of coronavirus in restaurants, we recommend strengthening temperature-monitoring surveillance, increasing the distance between tables, and improving ventilation,” the report has suggested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/central-acs-should-run-2-hrs-before-office-opens-haryana-govt-advisory/story-8amo4KVcNkcnWSjAT5sS7J.html
22-05-2020||Latest||Sourav Ganguly’s post reminds fans of 2002 Natwest final||Sourav Ganguly’s years as captain of the Indian team had many great moments but the one that stands out for many is him waving his shirt over his head on the balcony of the Lord’s after Mohammad Kaif led India to a dramatic win over England in the final of the Natwest series in 2002.Fans on Twitter remembered that moment once again when Ganguly posted photos of him “fixing” a mango tree from his balcony in Kolkata after Cyclone Amphan. “The mango tree in the house had to be lifted, pulled back and fixed again .. strength at its highest,” Ganguly said in the tweet alongwith the photos. “Dada, another balcony another show of strength!” said a user“Dada and balcony a better love story than veer Zara,” said another tweet while a user said that the love story is better “than Titanic.” “Dada aur balcony ka purana rishtaa hai,” said another tweet. Interestingly, Cricket South Africa’s Director of Cricket Graeme Smith expressed his support for the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) President Ganguly and his comments were also backed by CSA CEO Jacques Faul.“From our perspective, it would be great to see a cricket man like Sourav Ganguly may be getting into the President’s role of the ICC,” Smith told reporters. “I think that will be good for the game; I think it will be good for the modern game as well. He understands it; he has played it at the highest level; he is respected; and his leadership will be key to us going forward,” the former South Africa skipper said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cricket/sourav-ganguly-s-post-reminds-fans-of-the-2002-natwest-final/story-ClOKAAuq3UklwCZxBp43MK.html
22-05-2020||Pune||Police naik in Pune walks out of hospital Covid-free||A 37-year-old police naik was declared Covid-19-free on Wednesday, after a struggle with the infection, caused by the Sars-Cov-2 virus, for 25 days.The policeman walked out to a shower of flower petals made by his colleagues and superiors, outside the Symbiosis Hospital in Lavale, Pune.“I have been advised rest for 20 days. I’m home after long and will see how these 20 days go,” he said.The police naik was posted in the police station that reported the first Covid-19 case among the Pune police personnel.The particular police station recorded eight positive cases and the 37-year-old was the eighth.He spent the first day at Sassoon General Hospital followed by five days at the Bharati Vidyapeth Hopsital, and then 10 days at the King Edward’s Memorial (KEM) hospital, before moving to Symbiosis.“I moved from Bharati Vidyapeth to KEM because they could offer me a private room, while Bharati had an open ward system,” recalls the policeman, adding that treatment received was not always the best.“It maybe that during that period of the infection people have psychological disturbances and pressure. When he was there, he did not complain. His friends used to come regularly and visit and they had positive feedback. There is some misunderstanding for sure,” said Dr YL Yemul, medical administrator, KEM hospital.43-year-old constable dies A 43-year-old police constable of the Pune police died on Thursday, Covid-19 positive. With over 25 positive cases among the Pune police personnel, the constable is the second police casualty in the city.The first casualty was a 57-year-old assistant sub-inspector who died on May 4.The policeman, who was deployed at the traffic branch of the Pune city police, died on Thursday. He was under treatment for the past 10 days at the Bharati Vidyapeth hospital in Katraj, where he breathed his last. He was on the ventilator.Of the 25 police officials infected with the virus, 14 have recovered and two have died. The rest are still under medical treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/police-naik-walks-out-of-hospital-covid-free/story-QIM56v4iN9KaUj0bR69IpK.html
22-05-2020||City||Online liquor sale allowed in Navi Mumbai||Standalone shops, e-commerce activity and home delivery of liquor will start in Navi Mumbai from May 22. Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has decided to allow these non-essential services in non-red zones only.Municipal commissioner Annsaheb Misal said, “We have decided to permit standalone shops outside containment areas. Electric hardware, plumbing and tyre shops will be allowed to operate from 9am to 5pm.The online liquor delivery will be allowed but the liquor shops will be closed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/online-liquor-sale-allowed-in-navi-mumbai/story-aBgKKEKMCYRk7iZtXsn47N.html
22-05-2020||Pune||Sassoon hospital claims Pune’s first successful plasma therapy for Covid-19 patient||Sassoon General Hospital, one of the epicentres of the war against Covid-19 (coronavirus) in the city, on Thursday, claimed a successful plasma therapy treatment for a positive patient, the city’s first.The 47-year-old female patient was given plasma therapy twice in the last seven days has been shifted out of the Covid-specific ward at Sassoon hospital.“Her Reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test, after 15 days, has returned negative,” according to information released by the dean of Sassoon, Dr Murlidhar Tambe.The donor is a patient who had recovered from the virus on May 6.The recipient is a critical patient with co-morbidities like high blood pressure, hypothyroidism and kidney ailments.“The process of giving convalescent plasma to a critical patient happened on May 10 and 11. On each day 200 ml plasma was given to the patient, after which, the patient’s condition got stabilised and soon she will be discharged. From May 20 we have started plasma therapy for other patients too and it is done under the guidelines of ICMR,” said Dr Tambe.Plasma donors can be one who has completely recovered from Covid-19, if there are no symptoms for next 28 days after the recovery.Any male above the age of 18, and woman who doesn’t have children, can donate plasma||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sassoon-hospital-claims-pune-s-first-successful-plasma-therapy-for-covid-19-patient/story-5ze40m2g19ul5L3WGeSKOK.html
22-05-2020||City||Now, Ludhiana residents to shell out Rs 200 if caught venturing out without a mask||Residents caught venturing out without a mask will be fined an amount of Rs 200 from Friday, police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said. On Wednesday, police arrested 157 people and lodged 135 FIRs for violation of lockdown norms in the city. Of these, 112 FIRs were against those stepping out without a mask while 23 were against people found venturing out after 7pm.Apart from this, police also issued 815 challans to traffic violators and seized 53 vehicles.Stating that the cops will continue to take stringent action against the violators, Agrawal said that on being caught roaming around the city after 7pm, residents made excuses that they got late from their factories. “But we will not spare anyone. Residents are expected to manage their commute time in a way that is in accordance with the government orders,” said the police chief. Movement without a pass is allowed only from 7am to 7pm.He further said that for strict enforcement of the curfew past 7pm, 110 special nakas have been set up and around 1,600 police personnel have been deployed on ground. Besides, a 3,000-strong force of volunteers will be assisting the police.Violators are being charged under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/now-shell-out-rs-200-if-you-are-caught-venturing-out-in-ludhiana-without-a-mask/story-On6WbK6h5A0jGE2OjA04AL.html
22-05-2020||City||Bus driver dupes 60 migrants of ₹2 lakh in Mira Road||Palghar Sixty migrants including men and women were cheated of Rs 2 lakhs on Tuesday after a bus driver duped them by promising them that he will take the group to Kolkata. Each of the victims paid Rs 4,000 to the driver for the trip which never took off.The victims, mostly construction workers and housemaids, assembled at the starting point in Kashmira on the Mumbai-Ahmedabad highway at around 4.30pm waiting for the bus to arrive, but till night there was no sight of the bus and they soon realised they were cheated of their hard-earned money.Meanwhile, a Mira Bhayandar Municipal Corporation (MBMC) corporator, Dipika Arora got wind of the case and she rushed to the migrants’ rescue and contacted the MBMC administration who provided the group food and drinking water while Raju Bhoir, a social activist provided shelter to the migrants in a vacant building space, owned by him.The migrants were not keen to complain to the Kashimira police, but Arora has assured that she will take up the matter with the Thane Rural police after the victims are in the right frame of mind to complain. The majority of the victims had sold all their belongings including gas stoves, cylinders, utensils, and other belongings to fund for the trip to Kolkata.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bus-driver-dupes-migrants-of-2-lakh-in-mira-road/story-2dRJ3csUhfvxJtJtdbdkGI.html
22-05-2020||Pune||Covid-19 positive woman gives birth to health baby girl; first such delivery in Pune||For the first time in Pune city, a 32-year-old pregnant, Covid-19- positive woman, gave birth to a female baby on Thursday at the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) Sonawane Hospital in Kashewadi.Sonawane hospital, which has been dedicated for Covid- positive pregnant women in the city, currently has 19 positive pregnant women admitted.Giving details of Thursday’s successful delivery, Dr Madhuri Rokade, resident medical officer of the hospital, said, “The woman who is from Yewalewadi was admitted to the hospital on May 16 after she tested positive. She was referred to us from a private hospital, and was due for delivery. Today at 7.26 am she delivered her baby girl. The baby is completely healthy and weighs around 3.5 kg. It was a normal delivery. It is the first case of a Covid-positive pregnant woman giving birth in the PMC jurisdiction.”The delivery was done by Dr Shilpa Shrujan, auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM) Vanita and sister Meena along with helper Shaila Maushi. The hospital has a 40-bed capacity with seven nurses to serve Covid-positive pregnant woman patients.“After the delivery the baby is kept away from the mother as we are yet to know the Covid status of the child. After five days, the baby’s test will be done and once the reports are in, if she tests negative, the baby will be handed over to the relatives of the mother.” added Dr Rokade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-positive-woman-gives-birth-to-health-baby-girl-first-such-delivery-in-pune/story-vQdZfRP6AEKoBErMAODxZO.html
22-05-2020||City||24*7 migrant help centres come up at police stations in Ludhiana||The Ludhiana police have set up migrant help centres in police stations across the city to provide 24*7 assistance to the labourers. Earlier on May 15, the police had formed migrant welfare committees at police station level.Police commissioner Rakesh Kumar Agrawal said police will address the problems of migrant labourers at these centres. Besides informing them about their train booking status, waiting list etc, police will also look into any other problems they face. He said additional deputy commissioners of police (ADCPs) have been given charge of the centres.The police commissioner also informed that 13 pick-up points have been set up, from where migrant workers will be ferried to railway stations in buses.“Migrant welfare committees were formed to take care of ration supply of the labourers and also assist them in returning to their native places. The committees will also address problems being faced by the migrants in factories,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/24-7-migrant-help-centres-come-up-at-police-stations-in-ludhiana/story-LUcLZwlndac5q0F91QTfjK.html
22-05-2020||Pune||New ICMR guidelines will reduce pressure on testing labs, says Pune district collector||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), on May 18, issued new guidelines updating its strategy for Covid-19 tests as the number of infected people crossed 90,000-mark in the country.The revised strategy proposes all symptomatic contacts of laboratory confirmed cases and healthcare workers to be tested. All symptomatic patients with Influenza Like Illness (ILI) and patients who develop ILI symptoms should also be tested.Maharashtra state health commissioner Dr Archana Patil instructed all municipal corporations and district hospitals to follow the ICMR guidelines.Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram said that the new guidelines will help streamline the testing process and reduce the pressure of testing labs. “We have received the new guidelines from the state health department. We have forwarded it to our district hospitals and health officials. From now onwards testing will be done only according to the given guidelines and it will certainly reduce the pressure on the testing labs,” he said.According to officials of the health department, it was found that swabs of persons travelling from one district to another were sent for testing. This increased the number of tests and put pressure on the labs. This unnecessary testing was delaying the reports of high-risk patients. So to streamline this process all the testing labs, district hospitals treating Covid patients are been given proper instructions for testing.As of May 20, 35,302 testing have been done in Pune city, out of which 3,899 persons have been tested positive. While 221 people have lost their lives due to Covid-19, 2,023 persons have been completely recovered and discharged from the hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/new-icmr-guidelines-will-reduce-the-pressure-on-the-testing-labs-ram/story-SB6MJsJ2qXMCKq8e1FoyOL.html
22-05-2020||Pune||School transport operators, drivers in Pune see a difficult road ahead||Pune: The Covid-19 (coronavirus) spread has left the owners and drivers of school transport — buses and autorickshaws — looking at a bleak future and struggle to make ends meet.Schools in Maharashtra normally reopen on June 15 after the summer vacation, but the school bus and auto owners and drivers fear that the virus spread and continuous lockdowns will extend the school reopening date this year. Baba Giram, a school bus operator from Padmawati, said, “I own four buses and have to pay equated monthly installments (EMIs) to banks as I took loans to purchase the vehicles. With no income, my EMI continues and I also pay half salary to drivers. So, it is really a tough time for survival.”Giram compared the financial condition of school bus owners with farmers who end up committing suicide. “We hear farmers committing suicide because of severe financial crunch. I fear many vehicle owners would meet a similar fate if the present crisis continues.”Many schools held online classes during March and April in view of the contagion. Some educational institutes like Deccan Education Society has decided to hold classes online for a few months in the next academic year.Rashid Inamdar, another school bus operator, said, “We have to pay driver salary, yearly vehicle insurance and EMI despite earning zero income. There is uncertainty about the future as experts say that social distancing norms will leave buses and autos with less occupants and less income.”Auto driver Tanaji Lavate said, “We don’t know when would schools reopen. When the classes begin, the government would not allow more kids on autos due to the Covid-19 pandemic. It will be difficult to survive as most operators have to pay vehicle loans.”Ajit Abhyankar, an economist, said, “The government must help this sector and provide loan subsidy. The interest on their loans should be paid by the government for the next six months.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/school-transport-operators-drivers-in-pune-see-a-difficult-road-ahead/story-eLIc0bTNhy3sG8bdV9YoKM.html
22-05-2020||City||Rendered jobless due to lockdown, truck driver ends life in Ludhiana||A 38-year-old truck driver ended his life by hanging himself from a ceiling fan at his house in Lohara locality in Ludhiana on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday. The victim, who earlier worked as a driver with a local transport company, had been depressed as he had been jobless for the last two months due to the lockdown. His wife was the first to discover the body of her husband. Their 15-year-old daughter said that the victim had been unemployed for the past two months and the family had run out of money, which prompted him to take the extreme step.She said that on Wednesday, she, along with her mother and two siblings, were sleeping on the terrace, while her father was in the room. “The next morning, when my mother came down, she found my father’s body hanging from the ceiling fan,” the girl said.Assistant sub inspector (ASI) Ranjit Singh, who is investigating the case, said the police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of Code of Criminal Proceedings on the statement of victim’s wife and sent the body for post-mortem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rendered-jobless-due-to-lockdown-truck-driver-ends-life-in-ludhiana/story-bc4Pwe3wrAq9kDuRqwuZTO.html
22-05-2020||City||Kashmir University students boycott classes over delay in examinations||The uncertainty over holding online examination of various undergraduate and postgraduate courses has upset the students of Kashmir University, who in protest, have decided to boycott the online classes. The students have written to the vice-chancellor demanding the university to follow the recommendation of the University Grants Commission (UGC) regarding the examination. In wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, the UGC had recommended that the university exams should be conducted for final semesters only, while the students in intermediate semesters should be graded based on an internal assessment of the present and previous semesters.“The varsity has failed to implement the UGC guidelines for conducting examinations so we have decided to boycott the online classes from Thursday onward,” said Syed Ahtisham Qadri, a spokesperson at Kashmir University Students Committee (KUSC).He said, “The university is yet to take a call on the examination schedule as we are already running behind the schedule. Even the postgraduate students of 2018-2019 batch had only appeared in their lone semester examinations to date.” The letter to the VC further stated, “The students are not demanding mass promotion but evaluation as per the UGC protocol that is based on the internal assessment and previous records only.”The students in the letter also demanded fee concession for this year due to the hardships faced by them due to the coronavirus enforced lockdown.“There will be no filling up of any online examination forms until the current situation is over. There are many students who can’t afford the telecom charges to hold the online classes,” the letter stated adding that ‘the varsity has been giving too many assignments to students hence putting extra burden on them”. Dean Academics Affairs Kashmir University, Akbar Masood said that the varsity has not yet taken a call on conducting exams. “Currently, we are holding online classes and monitoring the situation,” he said.Students of Islamic University of Science and Technology (IUST) Awantipora and Central University of Kashmir (CUIK) Srinagar have raised similar demands asking the authorities to conduct the examination of various courses at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kashmir-university-students-boycott-classes-over-delay-in-examinations/story-SJmUlN5yZvXSQ2RN0kspgO.html
22-05-2020||City||Migrant couple, their 8-month-old daughter hurt in roof collapse in Ludhiana||A migrant couple from Uttar Pradesh and their 8-month-old daughter suffered injuries after the roof of their rented accommodation, in Guru Arjun Dev Nagar, collapsed in the wee hours on Thursday. The neighbours rescued the trio and rushed them to Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) with the help of the police.The condition of the infant was stated to be serious. The injured were identified as Shiv Kumar, 28, a scrap dealer, his wife Shobha, 25, and their daughter Kirti.Shiv said the house, in which he lives, has five rooms, which had been rented out to five different families. He added that the roof of their room was in a bad condition and he had asked the landlord to repair it, but to not avail.He said on Thursday, when they were sleeping in their room the roof suddenly collapsed. “We suffered multiple injuries and remained stuck in the debris, until our neighbours rescued us.”Division number 7 station house officer (SHO) Satbir Singh said the police will take appropriate action after recording statement of the victims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/migrant-couple-their-8-month-old-daughter-hurt-in-roof-collapse-in-ludhiana/story-9fjwwQucKQs1F7LLYMEHAL.html
22-05-2020||Delhi||Meet the youngsters who adopted families of widows in this pandemic||While the coronavirus pandemic has left us grappling with health issues, we are also facing other equally grave problems such as unemployment and food insecurity. With the extended lockdown, the condition of the under-privileged is only worsening. While many good samaritans are coming forward to help the distressed, three Delhi-based girls have adopted a community in Kalindi Kunj.Under the project Panah, the young brigade, Aliza Ali (alumna of Shri Ram College of Commerce), Mallika Goel (alumna of Lady Shri Ram College for Women) and Noyonika Gupta (alumna of Indraprastha College for Women) joined forces to contribute as proactive citizens of the country. “The community in Kalindi Kunj mainly consists of daily wage and migrant labourers. Amidst them are struggling widows with a family to feed. Faced with an unwarranted situation like this, life for these women has become a constant ordeal, since they lack traditional means of support. The lockdown, as described by many of them, is an experience “as horrid as a nightmare”, since almost all of them have lost their means of livelihood. Project Panah worked towards gathering funds and supporting this local community, struggling to make its way through a global crisis,” says 22-year-old Ali.The girls have adopted 85 families and they carried out donation drive in two phases. Goel says, “Food packages consisting of rice, daal, salt and other essential food grains were distributed, thereby sustaining them for a period of 2 months.”For the group, this project was the first ever experience to work with the ground realities. Ali adds, “We strongly believe that helping others in such uncertain times is a responsibility, not a favour. We are now even more enthusiastic to continue our work for the society.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/meet-the-youngsters-who-adopted-families-of-widows-in-this-pandemic/story-kCO6Ulwrz8s8ToZ6wM40tI.html
22-05-2020||Chandigarh||42 more test positive for Covid-19 in Himachal, taking total tally to 152||Himachal Pradesh on Thursday witnessed the biggest single-day spike in the Covid-19 cases with a total of 42 people testing positive for coronavirus taking the states tall to 152.Thirty-one cases were reported from Hamirpur district alone; six cases were reported from Kangra district and five from Solan.“With this, the number of active cases in the state has gone up to 90,” said special secretary, health, Nipun Jindal.Hamirpur deputy commissioner Harikesh Meena said that five people—two from Bhoranj and three from Tauni Devi area—were tested positive for the virus early morning. Two returned from Mumbai and the travel history of three is being traced. Four were under institutional quarantine and one home quarantined.Later in the afternoon, eleven more people tested positive. All of them returned from Mumbai and were under institutional quarantine,’ said Meena.Fifteen more tested positive late evening.The patients have been shifted to Covid-care centers at Dugha and Hamirpur.KANGRA TALLY GOES TO 41 WITH SIX NEW CASESKangra Deputy Commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said that the fresh cases in the district comprise a 41-year-old woman and five men aged between 21 years and 57 years.They all returned from Mumbai recently and were institutionally quarantined at the Radha Soami Satsang Beas complex at Paraur near Palampur. They have been shifted to the Covid care centre at Baijnath. The district’s tally has climbed to 41.SOLAN SCORES A FIFERIn Solan, all five patients belong to Ramshehar in Nalagarh sub-division. They returned from West Bengal on May 15 and were under institutional quarantine at the Manpura centre, Jindal said, adding that patients have been shifted to a covid-care centre.STEEPEST SPIKE SO FARHimachal Pradesh witnessed the biggest single-day spike in the state with a total of 42 cases. Earlier, eighteen cases were recorded on Wednesday.Till date, the state has 152 Covid-19 cases, including three casualties.Hamirpur is the worst-hit district with 46 cases followed by Kangra with 41 cases and Una with 19 cases.Fourteen cases have been reported in Solan, thirteen in Chamba district, seven in Bilaspur, six in Mandi, four in Sirmaur and one each in Shimla and Kullu.A total of 55 people have been cured of the virus in the state, including 14 people over the week.So far, 22,399 people have been tested for Covid-19 in the state, while more than 24,000 are under active surveillance.NALAGARH MLA, EX-MLA QUARANTINEDThe health authorities in Nalagarh have told Nalagarh MLA Paramjeet Singh Pammi and former legislator KL Thakur to self-quarantine after five people tested positive in Solan. They had recently visited the institutional centre where the five patients were quarantined after returning from West Bengal. They will remain under quarantine for seven days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/11-more-returnees-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-himachal-taking-total-tally-to-121/story-MMPSKtbuyOE7LduCjnQsXL.html
