23-05-2020||Mumbai||A year on, kin remember Dr Tadvi, say she wouldn’t be scared of virus||Since the lockdown, BYL Nair Hospital has been converted into a Covid hospital where more than 800 patients are receiving treatment. Recently, the hospital’s gynaecology department celebrated the record of delivering 100 babies by Covid-positive mothers. Had Dr Payal Tadvi not died by suicide a year ago, she would have been there, working alongside her fellow doctors in the gynaecology department, said her mother Abeda Salim Tadvi. “She always wanted to help people. She would have never gotten scared of the virus,” said Abeda. On May 22, 2019, the body of Dr Tadvi, a second-year resident doctor, was found at the medical college attached to Nair Hospital after she died by suicide. She was 26. Three of her senior colleagues — Dr Hema Ahuja, Dr Ankita Khandelwal and Dr Bhakti Mehare — were charged with caste-based harassment and abetting her suicide. They have since been released on bail and the case is pending trial in court. Students at the medical college said relations between seniors and juniors has improved and the college has become more prompt in acting against harassment and other disturbances since Dr Tadvi’s suicide.For Dr Tadvi’s family, the grief remains overwhelming and they’re still awaiting justice. “I still go through her messages and books. I wish I had a time machine to bring her back. She was the apple of my eye,” said her mother Abeda. While the court case makes its way through the judicial system, Abeda, 51, said that she is yet to receive the compensation of Rs 10 lakh that she claims the then state government had promised her following a close-door meeting. HT has copies of the letters sent by Dr Tadvi’s family, seeking the help they were promised.“If they don’t want to give money, the government can at least give my son a job. Due to his physical disability, he couldn’t study beyond Class 10. But he can do a clerical job to support himself after our death,” said Abeda, who is a cancer survivor and lives with her husband and disabled son. Minister for minority development Nawab Malik said the matter would be looked into but it could not take precedence over the Covid-19 outbreak. “If the former government had promised it, they should have released the money. I haven’t received any letter from the family. But they can write to us or the [municipal] corporation. The matter can only be heard after Covid, which is a priority now,” he said.Dr Salman Tadvi, who is an anaesthetist, remembers how important medicine was for his wife, who was the first person from her Tadvi Bhil village to pursue medical sciences. “To her, her career was everything. Considering, I am an anaesthetist and she was studying gynaecology, we were a perfect couple,” said Dr Salman.The two were married in 2016 and spent their first year as a couple apart because Dr Tadvi served her one-year compulsory bond in a rural district while Dr Salman completed his postgraduate degree in anaesthesia from King Edward Memorial College in Mumbai. In 2017, the couple shifted to Dr Salman’s hometown Aurangabad for a year before coming to Mumbai in 2018, when Dr Payal was admitted to Nair Hospital for her postgraduate degree and Dr Salman secured a government job in the city.Now, Dr Salman works at Jogeshwari Trauma Centre where he is currently on Covid duty. He has moved out of the flat that the couple had rented near Nair Hospital and shifted to Jogeshwari. “The room reminded me of her, so I had to leave it,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/a-year-on-kin-remember-dr-tadvi-say-she-wouldn-t-be-scared-of-virus/story-GvoFmFhnFiU7rzxqjowruM.html
23-05-2020||Mumbai||Train cancelled at last minute, 1.6K from Tamil Nadu stranded||On Saturday afternoon, residents of Dharavi protested outside the local police station after some of them had to return home from CSMT after their train to Tamil Nadu was cancelled at the last minute.Around 1,600 migrants were expected to take a train to Nagercoil in Tamil Nadu at around 8pm. However, the Tamil Nadu government allegedly denied permission at the last minute saying they do not have provisions to accommodate so many people returning to the state.“Our state government had provided 50 buses to carry people to CSMT station. Of which, two buses had already left. We had received permission from the local police station and the railway minister had provided for a train. But, Tamil Nadu government denied permission to us at the last minute, which is why we protested against the government,” said S Vivekanandaraja, a social activist.Vivekanandaraja said that they have approached the local authorities requesting them to look into the matter. They have said the migrants will be informed in the next two days about what provisions will be made for them to return home.“We had left with most of our belongings. If other states are ready to accept people back home, why not Tamil Nadu. Disappointed that these people had to return home,” said Ramesh Nadar, a resident of Dharavi.However, when senior police officers were contacted, they denied information of any protest. Dharavi is one of the red zones in the state, with around 1,478 Covid-19 positive cases until Friday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/train-cancelled-at-last-minute-1-6k-from-tamil-nadu-stranded/story-QEUzao0syM37CExj3sbr2N.html
23-05-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government again seeks Centre’s nod to resume local train services||The Maharashtra government has once again decided to request the Centre to allow the resumption of local train services for the workforce engaged in emergency and essential services. It has decided to request the Centre for more trains to ferry the remaining migrants who want to go back to their respective home states.The call was taken following a high-level meeting between chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, his senior cabinet colleagues, and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Saturday.Pawar, who held three meetings with the CM and his cabinet colleagues in the last nine days, discussed various other issues related to the ongoing lockdown and the exit strategy. Pawar has been insistent on easing of lockdown restrictions and planning a strategy for revival of the economy, which has plummeted.“The state government has already urged the Centre for resumption of suburban railway services for the workforce engaged in essential and emergency services. The CM has spoken with the Prime Minister over it. We have decided to once again request the Centre for trains,” said water resources minister and NCP leader Jayant Patil.He said that they discussed the strategy and steps that need to be taken for a lockdown exit plan for Mumbai and Thane. “Pawarseheb has agreed to speak to railway minister Piyush Goyal with the request for more trains and resumption of suburban locals for essential and emergency services,” Patil said.The state has more than 3 lakh migrants who want to go back to their respective home states. “We have been demanding 70 trains daily against which we are getting 45-50. We need around 200 more trains to send the migrants back to their states. The government wants to send them back before the ongoing lockdown ends on May 31,” said an official from Mantralaya.Pawar reportedly was in favour of resumption of road transport within the state and alongside restarting train and air services.According to officials present at the meeting, a range of other issues, including handling of the Covid-19 pandemic, augmentation of the health services, revival of various sectors, strategy to attract migrant labourers back, and helping the education sector were discussed in the meeting. Pawar also suggested interaction with industrialists and experts for the revival of the various sectors.The leaders also discussed the Centre’s slow response in extending a helping hand to the state as well as the Bharatiya Janata Party’s attempts to corner government and encourage non-cooperation was also discussed at the meeting held at the proposed location for the Bal Thackeray memorial in Dadar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-again-seeks-centre-s-nod-to-resume-local-train-services/story-qBUiqJih8fhQwaKf3XXJEO.html
23-05-2020||Noida||Army man arrested for sharing fake information on Covid-19 cases related to private news channel||A 54-year-old Agra-based army man was arrested by Noida police on Friday for allegedly sharing fake information about coronavirus positive cases emerging at a Sector-85 based private news channel.According to the channel, the suspect spread false information on social media about 19 employees testing positive for the deadly infection which could have created panic among the public.“The incident came to light on May 20, and employees of the channel and their family members started panicking when they came across the false news at first. Around 4pm, the suspect had shared the false information on his social media account that after coronavirus cases at Zee Media group (of which 32 employees have tested positive so far), 19 persons from our channel had tested positive as well. He even urged the people to maintain distance from all our employees,” said Rahul Khanna, who is part of the news channel, in a complaint to the police.He alleged that the suspect shared the false information knowing that it could create panic in many.“This was a targeted act against us, meant to harass us mentally. The act which violates the epidemic act was a ploy to defame us. The situation in the country is already tense, and this kind of false news can cause a lot of harm. From the suspects’ posts it is clear that the idea behind it was to destroy the goodwill of the channel,” said Khanna in his complaint.After the post circulated on social media, employees of the news channel started getting calls fro their friends and relatives. The incident was reported to the police on May 21.Taking cognisance of the matter, a case was registered against the suspect, identified as Rajesh Sharma, at the Phase 2 police station under sections 505 (2) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the IT Act and epidemic act. He was arrested from his home in Agra. The police said the suspect works as a radar operator for the Indian Army.“Whether the social media post was generated by him or he only shared it is still being investigated. However, commenting, sharing or forwarding any fake content is liable to legal action under the IT Act,” said deputy commissioner of police( zone 2), Harish Chandra.Police officers said the suspect reportedly told them that he only shared something that he had received from another source.The suspect was produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/army-man-arrested-for-sharing-fake-information-on-covid-19-cases-related-to-private-news-channel/story-AybadprkxgwQ5dcYnYLw8M.html
23-05-2020||Mumbai||Migrant ‘assault’: Palghar tehsildar sent on leave||Palghar tehsildar Sunil Shinde, who allegedly kicked and abused a migrant on Wednesday, was sent on compulsory leave by the revenue department on Friday. Ayub Tamboli, currently posted at the urban development department, will take additional charge as Palghar tehsildar till further notice. Shinde was seen in a video allegedly kicking and abusing a migrant at Aryan Grounds in Palghar when he asked the tehsildar for a token to board a train to UP. On Wednesday, around 5,200 migrants had assembled at the Aryan Grounds for collecting tokens to board three trains to north India from Palghar station. The migrants were waiting to receive the tokens when Shinde allegedly assaulted a migrant. A video of the incident went viral on social media after which revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat ordered an inquiry into the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/migrant-assault-palghar-tehsildar-sent-on-leave/story-oWfrq51sLL5uYVvRJ62NbL.html
23-05-2020||City||Tricity buzz: HT Chandigarh reporters’ tracker on all those making, or faking, news amid coronavirus lockdown||CORONA BREAK FOR HEALTH DEPARTMENT IN MOHALIThe Mohali health department is finally breathing easy. Employees are relieved that the march of the coronavirus has halted, at least for now. Till a fortnight ago, the district health officials were on their toes, collecting samples, sealing localities and shifting patients. Now that Mohali has been declared Covid-free, they are finally catching up on a much-needed break.SANJAY BANIWAL FOR PRESIDENT!Chandigarh director general of police (DGP) Sanjay Baniwal held a meeting with members of the Muslim community on Friday, requesting them to keep mosques closed on Eid in view of the social distancing norms amid the Covid-19 pandemic. As a goodwill gesture, Chandigarh Police brought along seven quintals of seviyaan (vermicelli) for the community. When Baniwal was leaving, members of the community presented a bouquet of flowers and blessed him, saying that they hoped he goes on to become the President of India one day. The DGP was all smiles and thanked them profusely for the hospitality and cooperation.SKETCH IN ORDER OF HIERARCHYA sketch glorifying the efforts of Chandigarh administrator VP Singh Badnore and prominent officers of the Union Territory administration besides doctors from Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) in fighting Covid-19 was widely shared on social media recently. But a closer look at the sketch revealed the hierarchy in the system. With Badnore at the top, UT adviser Manoj Parida and UT health director Dr G Dewan at level 2 followed by PGIMER director Dr Jagat Ram, police, district administration and municipal corporation officers. This left PGIMER doctors miffed and they took to Twitter to support their director for the top order. SIFARISH FOR A TICKET TO BIHAR, UPAs the Mohali district administration started sending migrant workers to their native places in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, it led to flood of phone calls, seeking “sifarish (favour)”. With limited seats allotted to each sub division and a large number of migrants wanting to return, the migrants resorted to pulling strings to ensure a seat. Not just local leaders and officers but they even contacted journalists to put in a word so that they would be allowed to sit in a bus that drops them at the Mohali railway station. Though the police allowed everyone on first-come-first-basis, the mindset is difficult to change for people kept calling for favours. WHEN CTU BUSES RAN EMPTYChandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) officials were a harried lot when a senior UT officer admonished them for not starting the bus service even after the administration had declared its resumption in a press release a day earlier. “What could we do? Though we were not ready, we pressed some buses into service late in the afternoon. Most buses went empty as people didn’t know that the service had resumed for a few hours. At least a senior UT officer could tell the media that the administration has made bus services operational,” said an official.PANCHKULA COPS TAKE GoT ROUTE TO DRIVE HOME POINTPanchkula police are at their creative best with Covid-19 prevention slogans on their Facebook page these days. A recent post shows Hollywood actor Kit Harington, who played Jon Snow in The Game of Thrones, wearing a mask! The caption says, “Even Jon Snow knows that the mask is important! Don’t leave the house without a mask. #YouKnowEverythingJonSnow.” Another interesting post read: “Lockdown khatam hone ka intezar sirf aap nahi, corona bhi kar raha hai (Not only you but coronavirus is also waiting for the lockdown to end).”UT EDUCATION DEPARTMENT CAUGHT IN THE CROSSFIRENo one knows where the loyalties of the UT education department lie. This week, in the battle between parents and school authorities over the collection of fee, everyone blamed the department. School authorities said that the education department does not have the right to instruct them to collect only tuition fee, while parents blamed it for allowing schools to collect fee amid the lockdown.(Inputs by Hillary Victor, Shailee Dogra, Munieshwer A Sagar, Rajanbir Singh, Amanjeet Singh, Yuvraj Kaushal and Srishti Jaswal)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tricity-buzz-ht-chandigarh-reporters-tracker-on-all-those-making-or-faking-news-amid-coronavirus-lockdown/story-sMxxN6aepOFCxp0B4hsDTJ.html
23-05-2020||Delhi||Nation Green Tribunal building shut after staff tests Covid-19 positive||The National Green tribunal building complex was shut on Friday after an official posted in the court’s administrative section tested positive for Covid-19.According to a notification issued by the NGT, the official, who was posted in general administration section of the principal bench, had attended office on May 19 and was hospitalised after testing positive on Friday. This is the first Covid-19 positive case to be reported from inside the NGT complex. “All necessary protocols are being followed. Contact tracing is in progress and high risk contacts shall be asked to self quarantine for 14 days. The NGT premises shall remain under deep sanitization and with effect from May 23, no officer, staff, lawyers, litigants, and public shall be permitted to have access to NGT (principal bench) premises,” a notification released by the green court read.The notification said that a decision on the reopening of the court will be taken on May 25 after the entire premise is disinfected and contacts of the officials are traced. This will be done only as per advice of the health authorities, the green court said in the statement.The NGT had earlier issued instructions regarding its functioning stating that the chairperson, members and officers (deputy registrars rank and above) will attend office with 100% attendance.For the remaining, up to 33% of the staff will be required to physically attend office as separately notified from time to time, the NGT had said.According to the office order issued by the NGT, the section heads were ordered to prepare rosters of staff required to attend office physically by rotation and the staff members and list staff not required to be present physically at the office. It had said that only online filing (e-filing) of cases will be allowed and no physical filing is permitted for now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/nation-green-tribunal-building-shut-after-staff-tests-covid-19-positive/story-siiyO5zX8CNu5okRg7UBVN.html
23-05-2020||Delhi||Fire at Covid hospital in Hauz Khas, eight patients rescued||Eight Covid-19 patients were rescued by firefighters after a fire broke out at a private hospital designated for treatment of Covid-19 patients in south Delhi’s Hauz Khas on Saturday evening. All patients are safe and were handed over to the hospital staff for further care, senior fire department officials said. This is the first time the Delhi Fire Service (DFS) team had to pull off a rescue operation of people infected with the highly contagious Sars-Cov-2 virus. The rescued included five men and three women.Atul Garg, director, DFS, said the rescue operation was a big challenge but was carried out efficiently with none of the patients sustaining any burn injury.“We received a call around 5.45pm reporting that Cygnus Orthocare hospital opposite IIT-Delhi campus has caught fire. Five fire tenders were rushed to the hospital to contain the fire and later three more units had to be sent,” Garg said.“Our firefighters who reached the spot found that it was a three-storey building with a basement. We found that fire started in an operation theatre on the third floor. Ensuring proper precautions, wearing gumboots, gloves, goggles, helmet and fire suits, our men entered the hospital in two teams, with three men in each team,” Garg said.He said because the building was full of smoke, their men were wearing breathing apparatuses to be able to locate those trapped inside.“After successfully locating each of the patients, because none of them were injured due to the fire, our firefighters guided them out of the building,” Garg said.The team that was involved in the rescue operation said that it was only upon reaching the hospital that they got to know that there were Covid-19 patients admitted there. Sumesh Kumar Dua, divisional officer, who led the rescue operation, said the only focus of his team was to evacuate the occupants of the building safely.“We have dealt with all kinds of rescue operations, but this was a first of its kind. It was natural for us to be a bit scared. We, too, are human but all that we had in mind was to safely get everyone out of the building and to douse the flames,” Dua said.He said the firefighters were attired in their helmets, gumboots and overalls, apart from masks and gloves. The team was directed to follow all Covid-19 safety protocol such as avoiding contact with the patients' faces to prevent any infection possibility.“The fire was doused in less than an hour and afterwards, the entire team was thoroughly sanitised, and so were the tenders and equipment used in the operation,” Dua said.He said the patients were handed over to the hospital staff for further care.Cygnus Orthocare Hospital said that there was no major damage was reported in the fire.“…The fire was first reported on the third floor of the hospital, which houses the operation theatres. The Delhi Fire Services along with the hospital’s fire division have controlled the fire and are still on the job. There has been no loss or damage to life,” said Dr Amit Vig, unit head, Ujala Cygnus Orthocare Hospital.Without specifying details of where the eight coronavirus positive patients were moved to, Dr Vig said all of them were moved to “safe areas”.“We are well trained to manage situations like these and our team responded immediately. Everyone (the patients) was moved to safe areas promptly in an organized fashion,” he added.Fire chief, Garg, said it was the first such operation where they had to rescue coronavirus patients. “Our firefighters did a splendid job. All of them underwent deep cleaning which has been mandated after every rescue operation,” he said.He also said that the probable cause of the fire was a short-circuit in an air-conditioner in the operation theatre.However, he said the exact cause will be confirmed following a detailed inspection. Garg appealed to people to get air-conditioners serviced by authorised professionals as short-circuits in ACs is one of the most common causes of fire in summer months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/fire-at-covid-hospital-in-hauz-khas-eight-patients-rescued/story-SDlMGwKDVzvigKxI8ZaJEN.html
23-05-2020||City||Law varsity under Punjab government scanner after CAG finds irregularities in its functioning||The Punjab government has put the Rajiv Gandhi National University of Law (RGNUL), Patiala, under scanner after the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) listed serious financial and administrative irregularities in its functioning.CAG, in its report highlighted recently through an RTI, has noted that tenders worth crores of rupees were awarded to ineligible contractors by the university, the construction of the campus building was started without even approval of its plan and irregular appointments were made.Now, the Punjab higher education department has initiated a probe into the financial matters of RGNUL and has asked the university to supply year-wise financial reports, details of its fixed deposits (FDs), recruitment process and travel expenses of university officials. “The Punjab government has funded the university to the tune of Rs 220 crore, and it has every right to ask how the money was spent … whether the rules were followed or not. CAG has left out several areas which need proper investigation. The university took grants from the state government, but didn’t supply a single audit report to the education department,” said a higher education department official.He said that while other universities are starving for funds, RGNUL spends lavishly. “For only 1,000 students, they were taking Rs 15 crore from the Punjab government, while other universities get between Rs 35 crore and Rs 70 crore each for catering to students ranging between 2.5 lakh to 4 lakh. There must be some accountability,” said the official.“While the Punjabi University has slipped into a debt of Rs 130 crore in the past one decade, RGNUL made fixed deposits of Rs 48 crore. Why they concealed these facts from the Punjab government?” he asked.Higher education minister Tript Rajinder Bajwa said the Punjab government has the right to know how taxpayers’ money is utilised by the university. “We have sought explanation from the university on various issues. Further action will be taken after we receive its reply,” he said.CAG FINDINGSRegarding construction of a Rs 10-crore auditorium, CAG highlighted that the work was awarded to an ineligible contractor, who caused a massive delay in the project.“The contractor was eligible for works up to Rs 5 crore whereas he was allotted a work of R. 9.99 crore.”Besides, the auditor questioned the authorities over making the registrar’s residence as VIP guest house, causing unfruitful expenditure of Rs 1.5 crore.The CAG also noted that the university building was started without even getting its plan approved from Punjab Urban Development Authority (PUDA), and later when the state government started penal proceedings, the university requested for remission of fine.Besides, CCTV cameras worth Rs 17 lakh were purchased by the university authorities without inviting tenders.Also, the university denied the benefit of a welfare scheme to the scheduled caste (SC) students.RUMOURS ABOUT V-C’S RESIGNATIONMeanwhile, rumours are doing the rounds that RGNUL vice-chancellor Dr Paramjit S Jaswal has tendered his resignation amid speculation that he was perturbed over the explanation sought by the higher education department over the university’s financial matters.However, Jaswal was not available for his comments despite repeated calls made by HT. The office of the chief justice, Punjab and Haryana high court, who is chancellor of the university, also did not respond to a query seeking confirmation about the V-C’s resignation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/law-varsity-under-punjab-government-scanner-after-cag-finds-irregularities-in-its-functioning/story-Rp7qZnc6h0zP5cKxLgso2J.html
23-05-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram’s patient zero recounts her time spent in isolation||Last week, she stepped out of home for the first time in two months. She had gone out for a walk with her best friend, her dog Champagne, after spending days in isolation at hospital and home. It felt blissful till she had to cut short the walk when she realised every passerby in her society was staring at her, as if they knew she was the first Covid-19 patient of Gurugram and Haryana.“Though I was wearing a mask, I felt people were scared of me,” says the 26-year-old, who requested anonymity. “It affected me when the media reported that I had run away from the Civil Hospital. I had only been shifted to a private hospital after consultation with doctors. My contact details were leaked on WhatsApp groups. My parents and I got calls from unknown numbers. A man even posed as a policeman and entered our house. Nothing can be more traumatising,” she says, recalling the days after she tested positive. A resident of Sector 9, the woman, Gurugram’s patient zero, works as a marketing professional with an IT company in the city. She says, “People lack empathy. Rather than being concerned about what I was going through after contracting a disease, neighbours were more concerned about their own well-being.” The news and social media made her anxious. “After suffering an anxiety attack, I decided to disconnect from everyone. I focused only on my office work while I was admitted in the isolation ward,” she says. She was so scared that she quarantined herself for a month at home after being discharged. “It was a conscious decision as my three-month-old nephew stays with us.” While in isolation, she relied on her mother who kept her strong mentally and physically. Today, she is back pursuing her hobbies of cooking, playing with her nephew and taking her dog out for a walk. She understands that getting back to normalcy will take time. She is still to figure out how she contracted SARS-CoV-2 (the virus that causes coronavirus disease) . On February 22, she had gone for a vacation to Malaysia and Indonesia along with her cousin and returned on March 4. She had fever and cold on March 11 and got herself tested the next day only to be diagnosed positive on March 15. “Now I ask everyone to wear a mask and practise hand hygiene because one never knows how one gets infected,” she says. The last two months have changed her, for the better. “I’m more patient and concerned about others struggling with the virus,” she says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-s-patient-zero-recounts-her-time-spent-in-isolation/story-Tu5kpiO1neftOXKPmlxJeK.html
23-05-2020||City||CITCO employee abduction case: Multani died due to torture in custody, says dismissed Punjab Police cop Pinki||Dismissed Punjab Police inspector Gurmeet Singh Pinki on Saturday appeared before the special investigation team (SIT) and recorded his statement in the case registered against former Punjab director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini in connection with disappearance of Balwant Singh Multani, a Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation (CITCO) employee, in 1991.“Multani had died due to torture in custody and his body was later disposed of. The story of handing over his custody to the Qadian police and his later escaping from there is just a cover-up,” said Pinki who appeared before SIT as a witness.He was with the probe team for more than three hours and reiterated what he had said in an interview to a magazine in December 2015.Multani, a son of an IAS officer who worked as a junior engineer with CITCO, was allegedly picked up by two police officers after a terrorist attack on Saini, then senior superintendent of police (SSP), Chandigarh, in which four policemen in his security were killed. The police later claimed that Multani had escaped from the custody of the Qadian police and his whereabouts since then are not known.However, 29 years later, a case was registered against Saini and six others under Sections 364 (kidnapping or abduction in order to murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence), 344 (wrongful confinement), 330 (voluntarily causing hurt to exhort confession) and 120 B (criminal conspiracy) in Mohali on May 6 on the basis of a complaint filed by Multani’s brother Palwinder Singh Multani. Former deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Baldev Singh Saini and former inspector Satvir Singh and four retired cops -- sub-inspectors Har Sahai Sharma, Jagir Singh and Anoop Singh and ASI Kuldip Singh -- were also named in the case. Saini and the four retired cops have got anticipatory bail in the case and joined investigations.Pinki, who had come to the Mataur police station at 10 am and left at about 1.15 pm, answered questions regarding how he met Saini, his closeness to the ex-DGP and how Multani died in custody, officials said.Talking about his association with the ex-DGP, Pinki reportedly said, “I have known Saini since December 1988 and have worked with him in Bathinda, Hoshiarpur and Chandigarh.” The officials said Pinki will be asked to come again before the SIT. The FIR registered against Saini and other policemen was based on the disclosures made by Pinki in Outlook magazine in 2015. The FIR mentions that through the interview, complainant Palwinder Multani came to know about the “details of torture of his brother and his subsequent elimination”. “The matter is under investigation,” said Harmandeep Singh Hans, superintendent of police (investigation), Mohali, refusing to divulge any details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/citco-employee-abduction-case-multani-died-due-to-torture-in-custody-says-dismissed-punjab-police-cop-pinki/story-FZ03YL0Ylc1GeQtdb62nOJ.html
23-05-2020||City||Pvt schools must provide devices, internet to poor students for online classes: Delhi govt tells HC||New Delhi: If Economically Weaker Section (EWS) category students in private schools are unable to access classes online during the lockdown due to lack of devices or internet, schools should ensure or provide the same for students, the state government has submitted in the Delhi High Court. The submission was made by the Directorate of Education (DOE) on Friday evening in response to a plea filed by Justice For All, an NGO, which contended that several students belonging to the EWS and disadvantaged groups (DG) were unable to access classes online due to the lack of availability of these devices. The NGO contended that the decision of private, unaided schools to conduct online classes would affect over 50,000 students who cannot afford laptops, phones or high-speed internet connections. All private and government schools, universities and educational institutions are shut due to the nationwide lockdown, put in place to curb the spread of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease and classes are being held online.The state government’s submission came on a notice by a Delhi High Court bench of Justices Manmohan and Sanjeev Narula, to the Centre, the Delhi government, the city’s municipal corporations and a few private unaided schools on May 8 seeking a response on the matter. Earlier this month, Hindustan Times had reported that EWS students enrolled in private schools are struggling to keep up with classes online due to logistical issues and have been unable to take their exams as well.Advocate Shikha Bagga, secretary at Justice For All, said Saturday: “The affidavit filed by the Delhi government in the high court clearly mentions that it is the duty of schools to ensure no child is deprived of education online due to lack of material required for attending online classes. The Union of India is bound to release funds for reimbursement as proscribed under the Right to Education (RTE) Act.”The counter affidavit submitted by the Delhi government mentions that as per Section 12(1)(c) of the Right of Children To Free And Compulsory Education Act, 2009, “it is the obligation of the private unaided schools to provide the aforesaid facilities to EWS/DG category students admitted in their schools.” The department further stated that costs, if any, incurred by the state on account of the said reimbursement to schools, would have to be borne by central government as per Section 7 of the RTE Act.Bagga added, “We are getting complaints daily that some private schools are conducting tests and EWS students are not able to appear for them. Measures have to be taken on this front soon otherwise the entire academic year of these students might get affected.”Malkeet Singh, a contractual driver with no work since the lockdown was put in place, has two children studying in top private schools in west Delhi, under the EWS category. While his younger daughter is managing her studies with the help of her teachers and friends living nearby, his 11-year-old son has been unable to attend any classes, which are being held online.“We do not have a laptop or a smartphone so he has not been able to attend any online classes. I got to know through other parents that his tests are slated to begin Monday. We don’t even have books and don’t know what to do,” he said.His son’s school is among the 15 which were served showcause notices by the education department in the past one week after it was found out that EWS/DG students in these schools were not attending online classes regularly.A senior DOE official, requesting anonymity, said, “The concerned schools were issued showcause notices as per the orders of the court, and the court is being appraised of their replies.”In April as well, the DOE had issued a circular directing all private, unaided, recognised schools providing online learning material and students to ensure that the same facilities were extended to students from EWS/DG/Children With Special Needs category students too.On behalf of some of the schools which received the showcause notice, advocate Kamal Gupta said, “While targeting private schools, the petition doesn’t talk about how 17 lakh government school students would access online classes in the absence of laptops or smartphones.”SK Bhattacharya, president of the Action Committee of Unaided, Recognised, Private Schools, said: “We have not received any such complaints from EWS students. The government said that the centre will reimburse the amount for laptops, smartphones and recurring costs for internet connections. But some private schools are not regularly reimbursed for uniforms and books as well. They should be offered some amount in advance.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pvt-schools-must-provide-devices-internet-to-poor-students-for-online-classes-delhi-govt-tells-hc/story-UecJWatLY4ZlkltusEED9I.html
23-05-2020||Delhi||‘Sensitive’ Anand Vihar made off-limits to buses to stop large gatherings||Anand Vihar in east Delhi, which shares its border with Uttar Pradesh’s Ghaziabad and considered a major transport hub of the national capital given that it houses an interstate bus terminal and a railway station, has been classified as a ‘no-go zone’ for Delhi buses by the government in an effort to prevent a large-scale gathering of people as was seen in the initial days of the nationwide lockdown on March 28 and 29. Even as the rest of the city is being catered to by buses and other modes of transport since May 18, no Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) bus or cluster bus is being allowed to make trips to the Anand Vihar area, the Anand Vihar ISBT or the railway station, much to the distress of the residents there. Even para-transit modes such as auto-rickshaws are being permitted only after thorough police checking, senior government officials said on Saturday.“The Anand Vihar bus route is usually one the busiest in the city. We received directions from the district administration and the Delhi Police not to ply buses to Anand Vihar as the area has been categorised as “sensitive”. The bus terminal is completely shut and has been made off-limits by police barricades,” a senior government official, on condition of anonymity, said.In the absence of the Metro, residents were hoping to least take buses to work, but now that, too, is not an option. “While the rest of the city is able to avail of bus services, we are not. Auto-rickshaws are hardly seen in the area, and the few that are there charge twice or three times the metre fare. My office opened this week and I mostly take a lift from my colleague to office, or sometimes, I book a cab,” Khushbu Rai, a resident of D Block Railway Colony, Anand Vihar, said.A senior official in the district magistrate’s (Shahdara) office said the move is aimed to avoid any form of congregation in the area. “In the last two days, there were reports of migrant workers crowding the area again, not on a large scale though. The problem is that the area also has the Kaushambi bus terminal on the other side, and many migrant families started coming to Anand Vihar in the hopes of boarding a bus to their home towns at least from the other side,” the official quoted above said.Another official in the Delhi transport department said the UP government is also not running interstate buses. “If migrants simply reach Anand Vihar hoping to return home, it will be a futile effort. Only those who have applied to the administration and have been cleared for travelling can get a seat on a bus or a train. There are no interstate buses plying other than those which have been coordinated by the two states. Also, the Anand Vihar railway station is operational only for Shramik Special trains (meant exclusively o ferry migrants home),” the official said.Days after the nationwide lockdown was announced on March 24, thousands of migrant workers had flocked to the Anand Vihar interstate bus terminal hoping to catch a ride home. At least a lakh migrant workers had gathered on the road outside the terminal, and many had tried to cross the border and find a bus from the Kaushambi terminal. Kejriwal had then urged migrant workers to stay back and promised them shelter and regular meals.The gathering of migrant workers in large numbers, which led to blatant violation of social distancing norms, led the Union ministry of home affairs to suspend two top bureaucrats of the Delhi government, while issuing show cause notices to two others for ‘dereliction of duty’ regarding containment of spread of Covid-19. The Delhi Police had then filed cases against cluster bus drivers and officials for taking their buses out on the roads and ferrying migrant workers to Anand Vihar.Officials in the DTC said they are plying over 1,000 buses for public transport across the city and around 1,600 are deployed for transportation of migrant workers and for maintaining law and order. Also, a 1,000 cluster buses are plying in the city currently.“Since the passenger numbers are more than what the available buses can cope with -- each bus can carry only a maximum of 20 passengers at a time to ensure social distancing -- we have identified 185 routes on which buses can operate on a rotational basis,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/sensitive-anand-vihar-made-off-limits-to-buses-to-stop-large-gatherings/story-g2vKiPoPp7s1dCSArznVKK.html
23-05-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram’s 100 cases linked to Delhi, say health officials||With 12 new Covid-19 cases reported on Saturday, the total tally of persons infected with SARS-CoV-2 (the virus that causes coronavirus disease or Covid-19) in the district has reached 262. Of these, at least 100 cases are linked with Delhi, according to the district health department officials. A detailed report has been shared with the state government based on contact tracing, said the officials.“At least 100 Covid-19 patients in Gurugram contracted the virus after coming in contact with people who got infected in Delhi. Be it a policeman, ambulance driver or an essential service provider, who contracted the virus in Delhi while doing the duty, had spread the infection to at least two to three people in most of the cases,” said Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, chief medical officer (CMO).At least 15 patients attended Tablighi Jamaat at Nizamuddin in Delhi, and 30 people from Khandsa mandi, who tested Covid-19 positive had links with Delhi’s Azadpur Mandi. Likewise, patients from Dundahera, Sirhol, Jyoti Park, Palam Vihar, sector 10A, Shivaji Park, Jawahar Nagar and Bajghera had links with people who contracted the virus in Delhi.According to Punia, the maximum cases are from Khandsa and Dundahera, where contact tracing has shown links with the national Capital.Of the 12 cases reported on Saturday, four are from Devi Lal Colony, while one each from Surat Nagar, Rajeev Nagar, Satguru Enclave, Rajendra Park, 8 Biswa, Sector 37, Khandsa and Naya Basti have tested positive for Covid-19 positive. Of the 262 cases, 108 are hospitalised.International travellers test positiveTwo international travellers from the USA, who arrived in Gurugram on Thursday under Vande Bharat Misssion have tested Covid-19 positive. “Two from the United States of America and at least one from another country, who were brought back to the country under Vande Bharat Mission, tested Covid-19 positive. They have been admitted in ESIC Hospital in Sector 9 and Medeor Hospital, Manesar,” said Punia. According to officials, more than 350 international passengers have arrived in Gurugram as a part of the country’s biggest repatriation exercise to bring back Indian citizens. The travellers are kept under quarantine in different hotels. Based on their symptoms, the health team has been taking samples. Maruti employee tests positiveIn a major development, auto major Maruti Suzuki late, on Saturday evening, said that one employee of the company’s Manesar plant tested positive on Friday, for Covid-19. The company spokesperson said that the employee’s last attendance in the plant was on May 15 with normal health after which his residence area came under a containment zone and he did not join work thereafter.The company has informed the district administration. The employee has been admitted to a hospital and is stable. The company is providing all medical help and assistance to him as per government guidelines. The company has undertaken a contact tracing exercise and all employees who possibly could have come in contact with him have been advised to stay in home isolation. There is no impact on the business operations of the company. There may be a possibility of a second case of infection that has just been reported. More information is being sought. The company will follow the same detailed procedure as above, said the company’s spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/100-cases-in-gurugram-linked-to-delhi-say-doctors/story-hH24yg3HcQbygoVdydtEIM.html
23-05-2020||Chandigarh||No violation of fundamental rights in keeping religious places closed: Punjab, Haryana HC||The Punjab and Haryana high court has held that there is no violation of fundamental rights in keeping religious places closed due to the covid-19 outbreak. “Freedom to religion is subject to public order, morality and public health and there is no violation of religious rights of a community. It is an extraordinary situation. To safeguard the health of the society, restrictions have been imposed by closing down all the places of worship for public,” the bench of justice Rajiv Sharma and justice Ajay Tewari observed while dismissing a public interest litigation (PIL).Malerkotla resident Mubeen Farooqi had filed the PIL, alleging violation of fundamental rights of a person in keeping the religious places closed and allowing markets etc to open. He had challenged the March 24 guidelines of the Union home ministry, which were relaxed for other purposes from time to time but not for religious places. He had demanded that mosques be allowed to open on Eid and Gurdwaras be allowed to open on May 26 on the martyrdom day of Guru Arjan Dev.The bench further observed that the scope of judicial interference in policy matters is very limited. The policy decision can be challenged only if it is unconstitutional, arbitrary or irrational. But in the case in hand there is no arbitrariness.“The endeavour of the Union ministry of home affairs is to break the cycle by maintaining social distancing. The right of the state to impose restrictions, as are required or found necessary on the ground of public order, health and morality is inbuilt under Articles 25 and 26 of the Constitution of India,” the bench held, adding that the restrictions are in collective interest of the society at large. Articles 25 and 26 protect religious rights of a citizen, but with certain conditions such as public order, morality and health.The court added that merely because restrictions had been relaxed in certain areas, it could not be a ground to relax the same for religious places of worship. The discretion not to permit opening of all the places of worship for public and prohibiting holding of religious congregations/gatherings has been exercised judiciously, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-violation-of-fundamental-rights-in-keeping-religious-places-closed-punjab-haryana-hc/story-AazKmUQHjMNaE6Q11UlS3L.html
23-05-2020||Gurugram||13-year-old girl kidnapped and raped; suspect arrested||A 21-year-old man was arrested for allegedly kidnapping a 13-year-old girl and raping her at an abandoned house in Kherki Daula, the police said on Saturday. According to the police, after the incident, the girl was allegedly able to set herself free from the man and escape to her house. The arrested man, a resident of Kherki Daula, was unemployed. He was the neighbour of the victim. The police refused to reveal his name in order to protect the identity of the victim. The man was arrested on Saturday from Kherki Daula after the police received a tip-off.According to the police, the incident took place on Thursday when the accused allegedly lured the girl and took her to an abandoned house.A police official privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said, “On Thursday night, the girl returned to her house after she somehow managed to escape from the captivity. She then informed her parents about the incident. The girl’s mother approached the police and a case was registered on Friday. We arrested the suspected man on Saturday. We are investigating the matter.” A case was registered against the suspect under Section 4 (punishment for penetrative sexual assault) of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and sections 365 (kidnapping) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at women police station, Manesar, on Friday. The police said that the arrested man will be produced before a court on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/13-year-old-girl-kidnapped-and-raped-suspect-arrested/story-ibrMPWW5UHNoaiuZabiD0J.html
23-05-2020||Gurugram||Residents cast vote, elect governing body under lockdown guidelines||The district registrar of societies and firms on Saturday held elections to choose a governing body for residents’ welfare association (RWA) of Ramprastha Atrium, a group housing society in Sector 37D.The registrar said the elections were held as per the guidelines laid down by the union ministry of home affairs (MHA) for the fourth phase of the nationwide lockdown.Digvijay Singh, district registrar of societies and firms, said, “The casting of votes took place in the presence of government-appointed officials and police officers. social distancing norms were followed in the entire exercise— the ground was marked for voters to stand with adequate physical distance in between, masks were distributed among other measures. This is the first RWA election to be held during the ongoing lockdown where ballot voting was used. The election happened in a peaceful manner and as per the MHA guidelines.”Ramprastha Atrium is a newly-developed society where elections to choose seven governing body members were conducted for the first time ever. As many as 81 residents cast their votes in the elections.Returning officer (RO) Vikas Kumar Shau said, “Election were held for the posts of vice president, joint secretary, treasurer, and two executive members. For these five posts, 10 people had contested. A total of 81 people voted in the elections. The president and general secretary of the RWA were elected unopposed.”The district registrar had earlier issued a letter to the RO to maintain social distancing during the process, and getting the area where ballot votes were to be cast completely sanitised. Nominations for the elections were filed online.Sanjay Chaudhary, general manager, Ramprastha Promoters & Developers Private Ltd, the realtors’ group which built the society, said, “Elections for the first governing body of the society were due for many months. Saturday’s elections happened peacefully and in a disciplined manner. Now, the society will have an RWA to take care of its day-to-day matters. There are around 300 residents living in the housing society.Pradip Rahi, who was chosen as the unopposed president of the RWA, said, “We now have the responsibility of looking after all the residents living in the society. We will try our best to meet their expectations.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/residents-cast-vote-elect-governing-body-under-lockdown-guidelines/story-XSqwxprCby6HP2KvRSIU8K.html
23-05-2020||Gurugram||Banquet halls allowed to operate with limited guests, social distancing||The state government has allowed banquet halls and wedding venues to function but with riders pertaining to the number of guests allowed and the norms of social distancing to be maintained. For holding a wedding or a social function in a banquet hall, the organiser or the host will have to take permission from the deputy commissioner or similar authority. Further, the number of guests would be limited to 50. The state government on Friday issued directions in this regard. As per the norms fixed by the government, all the guests, who attend a wedding or a function, should wear masks, maintain a distance of at least six feet and follow all safeguards prescribed for public places. They also need to download the Aarogya Setu mobile application on their mobile phones, a direction by the state government said.The host will have to ensure that names, addresses and phone numbers of all the guests are noted in a register. Further, arrangements for hand sanitisers at the gate and thermal scanning for checking temperature should be made. Any one whose body temperature is more than 99.5 Fahrenheit would not be allowed to enter the premises, the direction said. The government has also banned the use of liquor, tobacco and betel leaves within the premises. No central air-conditioning would be allowed. The seating arrangement should also be made in such a manner that the guests will be placed at a distance of minimum 6 feet from one another, the direction stated.The owners of banquet halls and tents in the city, however, want the government to relax these norms as these norms are too stringent and would not allow the business activity to resume in any way. “The number guests fixed by the government is far too less and we have decided to meet the deputy commissioner in this regard. We are ready to follow all norms but the number of guests should be increased to 200 in June and then 300 in July,” said Anil Rao, president, Haryana Tent Dealers Association.Rao said that business worth crores has been lost in the past two months and the government must support all stakeholders in rebuilding the industry. “Not only owners but several workers have incurred losses,” he said. There are around 150 banquet halls and open sites in the city where weddings and other similar social functions take place. The directions also stipulated that barber shops, beauty parlours and salons, which are allowed to operate, should not let in customers, who have any influenza-like symptoms. Also the shop owners will have to sanitise all the equipment used after serving every customer.The government also said that there was no need for a mandatory weekly off for markets as ordered earlier as shops were only opening for only three days a week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/banquet-halls-allowed-to-operate-with-limited-guests-social-distancing/story-b8KORzl4GoFeTV7IDppQUN.html
23-05-2020||Gurugram||Fire at sanitiser manufacturing unit in Kherki Dhaula, no injuries reported||A major fire broke out on Saturday at a private company’s manufacturing unit in Kherki Daula with two floors of the three-storey building completely gutted. It took fire department officials nearly seven hours and more than 20 fire tenders to control the fire. No injuries were reported in the incident. According to fire department officials, they received a call about the fire around 9.15 am. They said the fire took place at Stella Industries Limited which usually makes cosmetics, toiletries, personal care products among other such items but has been mainly involved in manufacturing hand sanitisers ever since the national lockdown to control the spread of coronavirus disease was enforced on March 25.IS Kashyap, assistant divisional fire safety officer, said the basement, ground, and first floor of the building were completely gutted in the fire, while the firefighters were able to contain the blaze on the second floor and most of the items there were saved. The three-storey building, located next to the Delhi-Gurugram Expressway, is spread across 12,500 square metres.The extent of the blaze was such that more than 20 fire tenders from Gurugram, Manesar, Faridabad, and Noida were used in the dousing operations.“The fire was largely controlled around 4pm and was confined to a section of the basement of the building where a lot of chemicals used in hand sanitisers were stored haphazardly. The chemicals used in making hand sanitisers are highly flammable due to which there were heavy smoke and sparks,” said Kashyap.Kashyap said the fire is expected to douse completely around midnight. He said that since 4pm, 12 fire tenders were engaged in dousing the smoke and the flames inside the basement of the building.Fire department officials said that they suspect the fire may have been caused by a short circuit or one of the machines used in processing the goods may have developed a snag leading to burnout and subsequently causing the fire. They said that the exact cause would be only determined upon thorough inspection of the site. “We found slippers and shoes inside the building while controlling the flames which indicate that there may have been workers inside when the fire occurred. However, we have not been able to speak to the company officials so far to ascertain the same,” said Kashyap.However, a police officer at the spot said that there were nearly 60-70 workers inside the building when the fire started but they all managed to flee unharmed.The heavy cloud of smoke had caused panic among the locals in Kherki Daula village. Many shop owners shut their stores and residents who lived close to the spot left their homes and went to safer distances as a precautionary measure, said police officers. Kashyap said the company had obtained a conditional No Objection Certificate (NOC) from the fire department as its building plan was pending approval. Despite repeated calls on the contact number listed on the company’s website, there was no response from Stella Industries Ltd. Last month, a hand sanitiser manufacturing company in Sector 37 had caught fire on April 26. No injuries were reported in that incident as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/fire-at-sanitiser-manufacturing-unit-in-kherki-dhaula-no-injuries-reported/story-LK5Y74yFAM1XklgqWOZPXP.html
23-05-2020||Gurugram||Couples reconsider their wedding celebrations in a post-pandemic world||The venue was fixed, the shopping for trousseau completed and the deposits made to various vendors. The wedding that city resident Chitwan Lamba had been planning for the past one year was about to come true on May 3 but then the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic broke out. As restrictions on the movement started coming into force from late March onwards, Lamba and her family took the hard decision to postpone the wedding. “We had to postpone it because of the lockdown. Everything had been planned but we did not have any other option. My parents were sad but you can’t help it. On the other hand, they get to spend more time with me so you can’t complain about that either,” said Lamba, a 28-year-old doctoral research scholar with IIT Delhi. The pandemic, however, has not just changed the date of Lamba’s wedding but also the scale and nature of it. What might have been a large-scale affair with friends, family members and relatives has now being scaled down to a small celebration with close friends and family to mark the occasion.“We have not yet decided on the next date for the wedding but it will surely be a small one. It can also be celebrated at home with just a few close friends and family members. We are yet to decide on it,” said the Sector-73 resident. Lamba is not alone in changing her wedding plans. Several brides and grooms in the country are re-imagining their wedding celebrations in a post-pandemic situation. The current situation calls for compromises, adjustments and changes to be made to the long-established concept of a big fat Indian wedding.Government restrictionsThe district administration of Gurugram, in its revised order on May 23, said that marriage-related gatherings shall ensure social distancing and a maximum of 50 guests. The order, which is similar to wedding-gathering orders being followed in several parts of the country, is expected to change certain characteristics of the Indian wedding with restrictions on consumption of alcohol, supervision by nodal officers and ban on the use of central air-conditioning at the venue. Wedding planners and couples are grappling with newer challenges like the reduced number of guests, sanitation, social distancing and reduced contact. This challenge has led to maintaining a tight balance between tradition and precaution. Sanitation and hygiene “The responsibilities of holding a wedding during this time has doubled up as you have to look into other factors like sanitation and hygiene, where we would need dedicated teams for it. It can start from the gate to the buffet to the washroom. We might just have staff at the base of the stage with sanitisers for guests before they meet and greet the bride and the groom. Certain aspects are going to change. For instance, eating at weddings is now going to be more of a sit-down affair than an open buffet, where you eat standing up. We have to think of innovative ways of organising the baraat (wedding procession) as the horse and chariot are no longer feasible options. We might opt for a no-contact delivery of gifts, e-invites and other such things but the essence of the Indian wedding will remain the same,” said Ruchika Arora Bansal, director of Gurugram-based wedding organiser, Plush Weddings. She added that for couples approaching her to get married this year, her personal advice has been to postpone the wedding. Dates are available for June, July and August but Bansal said that the season picks up only after October.Deciding on the scaleDeciding the scale of the wedding has become a priority for couples. While some do not want to give up the opportunity of having a big celebration, others do not want to give the occasion a miss due to the forced small scale of the celebration. “I am ready to get married in the presence of merely 50 close guests as I don’t want to miss out the auspicious date that was pre-decided. We have invited only our closest relatives and friends. A wedding is such an occasion that comes only once in a lifetime. So we don’t want to miss out on the celebration,” said Prerna Singh, a 28-year-old bank executive, who is going to hold the ceremony on May 24 in Gurugram. She added that once the lockdown is lifted and the restrictions are removed, she will be throwing a bigger party for friends, families and relatives. Proper timingRestrictions, such as the cap on the number of guests and travel limitations, are also forcing couples to rethink the timing of the wedding. While some have postponed the weddings, which were scheduled to be held in the months of May and June, to the end of the year, several others are thinking of altogether skipping 2020. “Weddings are going to be much smaller affairs so a lot of them are going to shift to homes and smaller outdoor spaces. There will be a virtual element to all weddings going forward because there might be travel restrictions and older people may not want to leave the house. As such, we can expect online streaming of the occasion. There will also be a lot of online shopping because people don’t want to step out unnecessarily like visit multiple venues or visit a lot of small markets. The traditional wedding of the past with numerous ceremonies will no longer be possible. Instead, the focus will be on creating smaller ceremonies that are well-curated and unique,” said Sanna Vohra, founder and CEO of The Wedding Brigade. She added that ceremonies are primarily centered around close family members who participate in them. However, now the consideration to be made by organisers is how many people outside the close circle will get to witness the celebrations. She further added that 2021 is expected to be a busy year for weddings as those that were not held in 2020 are going to take place next year. Food choicesReduced guests also mean that the number of food items being served will also be curtailed. Ruchika stressed that guests are leaning more towards sit-in arrangements for dining to help maintain physical distance. “A total of eight weddings, which were supposed to happen in May-end and the June first week, have been cancelled. Along with this, our clients have asked us to cut down the items in the menu considering only 50 people would be attending it. People are going forward with intimate dining rather than a buffet layout. They are more interested in pre-plated food so that less food is handled by the client. We have introduced a seven-course tasting menu for the same and are also coming up with immunity-boosting dishes in the menu,” said Karann Talwar, chef and managing director of Kitchen Kraft Luxury Catering.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/couples-reconsider-their-wedding-celebrations-in-a-post-pandemic-world/story-nekmgoCEaR7E3xaFVLoG6N.html
23-05-2020||Gurugram||Two arrested for charging Rs 5,000 for issuing passes||Faridabad police on Saturday arrested two men for allegedly charging ₹5,000 from migrant workers for issuing movement passes through the Saral portal during the lockdown. The suspects were identified as 25-year-old Vikash Kumar alias Vicky and 29-year-old Pankaj Singh, both residents of SGM Nagar in Faridabad, said police. Vicky, ran a money transfer service and Pankaj ran a Common Service Centre (CSC) there, they said.The Saral portal is a Haryana government project that helps digitise certain services. When the lockdown was announced on March 24 to contain the spread of Covid-19, the government said people could apply for movement passes through the SARAL portal. The facility is available only for emergency cases and essential services.Anil Kumar Yadav, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that they were informed on Thursday evening that some people at the CSC were charging money for the services. “We formed a team and sent a decoy customer who only had an Aadhar card and driving license and wanted to go to Jaipur in Rajasthan and return. The man at the system asked for ₹5,000 and within minutes sent him e-pass on his WhatsApp,” he said. “We caught the operator red-handed and recovered the ₹500 denomination notes given by the decoy customer. They had charged more than 200 migrants with the e-passes,” said Yadav.Police said that when they questioned him, Vicky planned to earn money during lockdown as they were unable to bear their expenses and wanted to make their ends meet.According to the Saral portal, merely getting a pass would not be enough to ensure travel. They would have to provide other documents to officials upon inspection.The applications too would have to be approved from the district administration. Police said the suspects forged documents that indicated a medical emergency to ensure smooth passage for people at the borders and suspect the involvement of employees of district administration.“Pankaj used to spread the word among migrant labourers who were waiting for the passes to return to their home town. People used to come and he would charge them with full guarantee of a valid pass,” said Yadav.The suspects targeted stranded and uneducated people and told them that the centre was government approved and a branch of the Saral services from where they can get the passes within minutes.A case under sections 385 (Putting person in fear of injury in order to commit extortion) , 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code and section 52 of disaster management act was registered against the suspects on Friday, said police.Yashpal Yadav, deputy commissioner, Faridabad, said that there have been incidents where people have duped the migrant workers on the pretext of sending them to their hometowns. “We are spreading awareness that the e-passes are free of cost and anyone who is unable to operate a smartphone can visit the district administration office in Mini Secretariat and their issues will be resolved,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/two-arrested-for-charging-rs-5-000-for-issuing-passes/story-ZbIvUsXlfMR0pDPF61yd0L.html
23-05-2020||Gurugram||MCG makes rainwater harvesting compulsory for all residential establishments in city||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), on Saturday, announced that it will mandatory for all residential buildings, group housing societies, schools, hotels and industrial establishments falling within the limits of the civic body to install rainwater harvesting systems at their respective buildings before June 15. “In order to preserve and protect groundwater from further depletion in Gurugram and its adjoining areas, it is necessary to ensure proper functioning of rainwater harvesting structures (RWHS) before the onset of the monsoon season. Hence, I have issued directions in this regard with immediate effect,” said Vinay Pratap Singh, commissioner, MCG.Singh cited several provisions of the Haryana Building Code, 2017, which mandates such a direction.As per clause 8.1(1) of the Haryana Building Code, rainwater harvesting system must be installed by the plot owner, constructing the building on the plot where the area of the rooftop is 100 square metres or more.Similarly, as per clause 8.1(2) of Haryana Building Code, recharging of groundwater shall be mandatory not only for residential buildings but for all types of buildings, including group housing societies having a plot area more than 500 square metres and above.“As the matter is very urgent and time-bound, non-compliance will be viewed seriously and action will be taken for non-compliance as per the provisions of law,” said Singh.The latest direction by MCG comes less than two weeks after the civic body issued directions to all its nine executive engineers to visit all rainwater harvesting pits in their respective areas and subsequently submit an estimate for cleaning and de-silting such structures on May 12.There are around 700 rainwater harvesting pits spread across the city, said MCG officials.As per an MCG release in August 2018, the city receives around 600-700 mm of rainfall every year, thereby making rainwater harvesting a necessary provision for recharging the groundwater table of the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-makes-rainwater-harvesting-compulsory-for-all-residential-establishments-in-city/story-ngVO8myc8ZAD7raODYIyWK.html
23-05-2020||City||Covid-19 effect: No footfall in Malerkotla market ahead of Eid||Despite it being the month of Ramadan, the markets of Muslim-dominated Malerkotla town in district are witnessing low footfall due to lockdown.Also, it is yet to be declared whether Eid will be celebrated on Sunday or Monday. Shopkeepers are upset as they are unable to find customers and are bearing losses.“Customers are also facing economic crisis due to lockdown. Despite it being just a day before Eid, the markets have barely any footfall. This has never happened in the past many decades,” shopkeepers said.“There is no shopping extravaganza this Eid. Locals are purchasing some articles for their children. We are facing huge shortage of customers and losses. Eid is one of the biggest festivals in Malerkotla but due to lockdown and subsequent economic distress this year, shopkeepers are waiting for customers to show up,” said Anvar Mehaboob, who runs a garments business.Yasser Arafat, a Malerkotla resident, said that on one hand, curfew has badly affected local businesses, and on the other hand, people are upset with the authorities for not allowing religious places to open while liquor vends are doing business.“People are scared of getting coronavirus infection and are thus preferring to stay at home. We have decided not to purchase any clothes this Eid and are saving the money to spend on needy people instead,” said Mohammad Adnan, a local.SDM, MUFTI ASK LOCALS TO CELEBRATE AT HOMEMalerkotla SDM Vikramjeet Singh Panthey and Mufti Ertqaul Hassan held a meeting with representatives of religious outfits and police officials on Saturday. They appealed to the locals to celebrate Eid at their respective homes. “We request people to avoid assemblies at mosques and perform prayers at home,” added Panthey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-effect-no-footfall-in-malerkotla-market-ahead-of-eid/story-sq4jIiO1SiAmVmp1GK8aWI.html
23-05-2020||City||Gzb gears up to resume flights from Hindon civil terminal||Ghaziabad: Officials of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) and the Ghaziabad district administration on Saturday held a meeting and discussed plans for resuming domestic flights from the civil terminal at Sikandarpur near the Hindon airbase. The officials said that they have received confirmation for start of flights on Hindon-Hubli route from May 25.“We are likely to start from May 25. We have received confirmation for operation of flights from Hindon to Hubli. The clearance from the air force authorities is waited and an internal process is being taken up by director general of civil aviation,” said Shobha Bhardwaj, director of the civil terminal at Sikandarpur.During the meeting with the district administration, the civil terminal officials have requested for certain facilities which will be helpful for passengers as well as staff members.“We have already taken up sanitization of the civil terminal, and markings have been made for passengers in order to maintain social distancing. The infrared thermal scanners are in place and everyone will be required to wear mask. Besides there will be repeated announcements as per protocol and SOP issued by the ministry of civil aviation. We have also requested the administration for making available the local transport for ferrying passengers and staff members, besides making available doctors as a precautionary measure,” Bhardwaj said.However, Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, said that the health department will not be able to send team of doctors or ambulance to the civil terminal. “It is because most of our doctors are engaged in Covid-19 duties or deployed at 10 quarantine centres across Ghaziabad. So, we have written to the district magistrate that our doctors may not be available for deployment at the airport,” he said.District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey did not respond to calls. However, a statement issued by his office said that the district magistrate has spoken to private hospitals which may provide their doctors at the airport.“The municipal commissioner has been directed to depute a special team for taking up cleaning, etc. outside the civil terminal. The director of the airport has also been requested to submit the schedule of flights so that necessary arrangements can be made. The officials of the transport department have been asked to make arrangements for transport services,” said the statement.On May 21, the ministry of civil aviation said that the government has decided for recommencement of domestic air travel from May 25. The ministry had also said that apart from the safety of the passengers during the prevailing situation of Covid-19 pandemic, precautionary measures need to be taken by various stakeholders.Meanwhile, Amit Mohan Prasad, UP’s principal secretary (health), said on Saturday that the flights are likely to start from May 25.“The protocols are given by the ministry of civil aviation. Residents of UP coming in will be sent to home quarantine and those who plan to come here for some work will have to give details of return tickets and their place of stay, among others. However, a detailed protocol will be issued by Saturday,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gzb-gears-up-to-resume-flights-from-hindon-civil-terminal/story-MUPQGxkLP6Z6hB6GOApBfL.html
23-05-2020||City||Around 10,000 migrants being sent daily to UP towns from Delhi, say officials||NOIDA: Around 10,000 migrants including daily wage earners, students, factory workers and others are being transported everyday to their respective home towns in eastern Uttar Pradesh cities from Delhi, officials of Gautam Budh Nagar have said. The state government is ferrying these migrants via trains. So far, it has transported 81,000 migrants from Delhi to UP’s eastern districts. These migrants were working either with factories, private firms, at construction sites or engaged in other jobs in Delhi, said officials. On Saturday, officials managed to send 8000 migrants with the help of seven trains, they said. “We sent 9,000 migrants, including students, on Friday on eight trains, which travelled from Delhi to Hardoi, Lucknow, Sultanpur, Jaunpur and Gazipur among other cities. We register migrants one day in advance and then transport them the very next day to their respective towns,” said Narendra Bhooshan, chief executive officer of the Greater Noida authority, who is the nodal officer for transportation of migrants from Delhi to UP.Anyone from UP, who is stranded in the national Capital and wants to register to go home, can call and get themselves registered with the following Greater Noida helpline numbers: 0120-2336001, 2336002, 2336003, 2336007 and 8920827174. The helpline number for Delhi is 011-2611051, while the Muradabad control room numbers are 9454400114, 7839855711, 7839854579, 7839854569, 9454402535 and 0591-2535733. Officials said that initially, these helplines were deployed in helping stranded migrants get food, medicine and other essential services in Delhi. Now, after the UP government decided to transport them to their respective home towns, these helplines have been deployed to help them register for transport and go home. With these helplines the facility is helping an average 10,000 people daily since May 16, when this service was started, said Bhooshan. Till May 22, the state government had transported a total of 73,000 migrants to their respective towns, Bhooshan added. This number, however, does not include migrants who are walking to their home towns or villages on foot or those who managed to board trucks. Officials said dedicated helplines have been launched for migrants stuck in different states and operations are underway to transport all of them home. Besides UP, the Delhi government also arranged buses to send migrants home to ensure they do not risk their lives while walking hundreds of kilometres home, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/around-10-000-migrants-being-sent-daily-to-up-towns-from-delhi-say-officials/story-1zvoUyhyNiL9DW4YLP9SbL.html
23-05-2020||City||Gzb allows entry of maids, other service providers into highrises||GhaziabadThe Ghaziabad district magistrate on Saturday issued an order that dictated that the entry of domestic helps, newspaper hawkers, electricians, plumbers and other people engaged in household works will not be restricted in highrises of the district. The officials said that such arrangement can be planned directly between the employer and the service provider and local RWAs can act only as advisors, conveners or as observers.Although issued late, the diktat by the Ghaziabad district magistrate is likely to come as a breather for residents who have been for long demanding the services of people engaged in household works. The residents said that certain RWAs had rolled out their own directions, preventing them from accessing the services of such people.“Things are opening up everywhere, except in containment zones. Entire city is now under Red zone but we have relaxed norms for certain activities, like opening of markets. The society associations cannot stop vendors or service providers from going to flats if residents require their help, be it technicians or newspaper sellers,” said Shailendra Singh, additional district magistrate, who is also the nodal officer appointed by the district magistrate.The directions issued by the district magistrate seemed to have clipped the wings of the RWAs and prevented them from becoming absolute minders of their societies .“The RWAs can take up proper sanitization at the gates and then allow the vendors/service provider to move in. They cannot stop such persons and should support the administration instead of issuing diktats. In the next couple of days, we will also be holding meetings with the RWAs and discuss their suggestions, if any. Everyone has to ensure that hygiene and protocols related to Covid-19 is followed,” he added.Residents hailed the order and said that proper enforcement and implementation should be taken up by the administration.“My domestic help was not allowed in the highrise ever since the lockdown was announced. As a result, I have been preparing food and cleaning the house as well as doing the utensils. I have a problem in walking, but there was no option. Sometimes my neighbours helped me out,” said Anita Srivastava, a senior citizen from Gaur Homes in Govindpuram.Others feel that the district administration should have issued supplementary guidelines and should have detailed precautionary measures for outsiders to be allowed into highrises.“There are many people, like senior citizens, who are living alone . There should be proper guidelines about safety and precautionary measures in case domestic helps, drivers or any other service providers are allowed to enter. Otherwise, they will be a risk to all the residents,” said BC Rastogi, a senior citizen from Kaushambi.“It was for two weeks that I was waiting to call a technician to fill up gas in my AC. After the directions were issued I called him up and allowed him to come into the house only after proper sanitization and precautions,” he added.Other residents also said that banning the entry of service providers, domestic helps have hit them hard financially.“Many domestic helps could not get their monthly payments and were rendered jobless. So, many families of domestic helps and small time service providers left for their hometowns. Many senior citizens and those living alone in highrises also suffered because of this as they were left to take care of all household works on their own as entry of helps was not allowed,” said Namita Gaur, a resident of Crossings Republik.The residents’ associations, on their part, welcomed the directions but said that the directions were issued a bit late.“Many highrises banned the entry of domestic helps and other smalltime service providers. We However, the order by the district administration came at the fag end of lockdown 4.0. It says that it will be an arrangement between the employer and the service provider. There is no clarity on accountability if someone gets infected,” said Colonel (retired) TP Tyagi, president of flat owners’ federation.“We will also ensure that domestic helps and other service providers who have not got their pending payments get their dues at the earliest,” he added.Office bearers of the federation of association of apartment owners, however, maintained that RWAs had not banned the entry of domestic helps or other service providers.“It was just that the lockdown was announced and people were asked to stay where they are. So, the entry became restricted. The RWAs, as per the direction of the DM, will not restrict any domestic help or service providers and will ensure that there is proper sanitization and cleanliness which is maintained,” said Anil Sharma, secretary of the federation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gzb-allows-entry-of-maids-other-service-providers-into-highrises/story-Mkb8dwrD1Gu1qjSIvmhswI.html
23-05-2020||Noida||17 new Covid-19 cases reported from GB Nagar||Gautam Budh Nagar reported 17 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the total to 324. Eleven more employees of the OPPO mobile firm in Greater Noida were found positive, health department officials said. However, they have not been counted under the GB Nagar case list as officials are yet to confirm their home district. Till date, 10 employees of the company were from the district who tested positive for the infection earlier.The 17 new patients include a 27-year-old man, employee of a leading Hindi newspaper, from Gijhod village in Sector 53. He had shown mild symptoms. Another 33-year-old man from the Gijhod was also found positive and is believed to have contracted the disease from an earlier patient from the area.Four members of a family -- A 39-year-old woman, 14-year-old girl, 17-year-old boy and 26-year-old man -- contracted the disease from a man who was earlier found positive for the infection and runs an electrician shop in Harola area of Sector 5. One more man aging 35-year-old was also found positive from Harola but his exact source of infection is not known. “There are many cases which have come up from the Harola area so there is presence of Covid-19 infection in the area. There are many cases wherein we aren’t aware of the exact source of infection but the area is a containment zone so infection is present there,” said senior officials from the health department.Three Covid-19 patients were identified from the Nangla Charandas area of Sector 81 including two 27-year-old men and a 23-year-old woman. The men are close contacts of the previous case while the woman was found in a health camp organized in the area.Two contacts of the Covid-19 positive employees of OPPO were also found positive for the infection from the Bisada village in the Dadri block including a 29-year-old woman and a 49-year-old man.A 25-year-old man from Kasna, Greater Noida, a 38-year-old woman and her 7-year-old son from the Eco Village Supertech in Greater Noida and 42-year-old man from the Barola area of Sector 49 were also found positive for the infection. All the persons had Influenza like illness.The health department has been paying extra focus on containing the spread of Covid-19 among the employees of the Zee Media Group in Sector 16 A of Noida after 32 employees have been found infected. Officials have sealed the fourth floor of the Zee building from where the index case was reported. In the last three days, officials have screened 400 employees of the organization to trace close contacts of the positive patients. The entire building is being repeatedly sanitized since May 15 when the first case was reported from the company. Around 267 employees were screened and given medication in the health camp. Samples of 50 more employees who are close contacts of the positive patients are collected and they have been put under institutional quarantine. Their reports are awaited.Despite multiple attempts managing editor of Zee News, Sudhir Chaudhary, wasn’t available for comment.After the first case was reported on May 15, officials had taken 51 samples of employees, out of which 28 were found positive. “Currently, only 150-200 workers are reporting for work in the organization. All of them are asymptomatic and they are screened every day. In a very short duration, a large number of cases have been detected from the organization. The transmission of the disease occurred at the work place. Extreme containment measures are required to prevent the spread of disease,” said the district surveillance officer in his press statement. Inquiry ordered after Covid suspect goes missingDistrict magistrate has ordered an inquiry into the matter of a 21-year-old man who was a Coronavirus suspect and went missing while he was on the way to Sharda Hospital from Galgotias quarantine center in Greater Noida on April 23. Officials realized his missing almost after three weeks after his employers and family members called continuously to find out his whereabouts. “I have ordered an inquiry headed by the chief development officer AK Singh into the matter of the missing man from the Galgotias hostel. The CDO is expected to submit his report on the matter on a priority basis,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate, GB Nagar.On May 21, an FIR was registered with the Dankaur police after a thorough investigation done at a personal level by the Galgotias University quarantine incharge Dr Anil Gupta failed to find out the whereabouts of the missing man.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/17-new-covid-19-cases-reported-from-gb-nagar/story-9lgNKBoVuDYvLMgXxGxluL.html
23-05-2020||City||DLSA promotes Nyaya Bandhu app amid Covid crisis||GREATER NOIDA: In view of Covid-19 pandemic restrictions, the District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) has started promoting the Nyaya Bandhu mobile application launched by the Centre in 2017 for providing free legal aid to needy persons.Till now, only a few people are aware about the app that enables para legal volunteers (PLVs) to help arrange for legal aid through panel of advocates. On Saturday, the DLSA appealed to the needy persons to download the mobile application.“Nyaya Bandhu app was launched in 2017 by the ministry of law & justice. It is a pro bono legal services programme.It allows marginalised individuals seeking quality legal advice via the mobile application with advocates who have volunteered their time and services on this platform,” said Minakshi Sinha, secretary, DLSA, Gautam Budh Nagar.“In view of the Covid-19 crisis, the need of the hour is to utilise the digital platforms. I have directed the PLVs to promote the app. Earlier the need was not felt as PLVs used to provide all help to needy people in person. However, in absence of direct contact, litigants can get access through the application as PLVs will give the legal advice using their mobile phones,” said Sinha.“Eligible beneficiaries include members of schedule caste and schedule tribe,victims of human trafficking, persons with disability, persons in custody, industrial workmen, victims of disaster and ethnic violence, and persons with annual income less than Rs 3 lakh,” said Sinha.Azad Bhati, a panel advocate, said, “During the lockdown period, I got a few queries for extension of parole period. Four under trials in jail also sought legal advice.Through panel advocates, legal advice was provided.”DLSA holds regular legal awareness camps at villages,construction sites, industries, colleges, residential areas, jails, and other places. But due to the Covid-19 restrictions, legal awareness camps could not be held. DLSA also runs helpline numbers -- 181, 0120-4311255 and 7234005860.PLV Anita Devi said, “We did not promote the app in the past as we solved the queries personally. Now, we have started promoting the app. PLVs are also helping the health department. I go with health officials for door-to-door survey to identify Covid-19 suspects.”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dlsa-promotes-nyaya-bandhu-app-amid-covid-crisis/story-oyF70VfnxvTtp0vxCR1IsO.html
23-05-2020||City||G Noida: Nearly half of paramilitary jawans who contracted Covid-19 discharged in three weeks||GREATER NOIDA: As many as 96 personnel from different paramilitary forces, who had caught the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease while on duty, have been discharged so far from the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) referral hospital at Lakhnawali camp in Greater Noida. Officials said the personnel were discharged after spending their mandatory span of quarantine in the isolation ward of the hospital. Till date, a total of 210 Covid-19-positive CAPF jawans have been admitted to this hospital.According to Dr Dinesh Chandra Dimri, inspector general (medical) and the in-charge of the hospital, out of the total patients, 158 belong to the Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), 38 to the Border Security Force (BSF), five to the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), two to the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and one each to the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) and National Security Guard (NSG). “Besides them, four family members of CAPF personnel and one civilian had been admitted to the hospital after they had tested positive for Covid-19. The hospital was declared a designated Covid-19 hospital for CAPF personnel on May 1. Since then, we have treated and discharged 96 coronavirus patients, which include 66 from ITBP, 28 from BSF and one each from the CRPF and the CISF,” he said.He further said that the hospital has ample supply of protective equipment such as personal protective equipment (PPEs) and masks. “We are using the latest and advanced technology to help treat our patients. Recently, we introduced robotic machines, which are being used to serve food, water, medicine to patients without anyone coming in direct or indirect contact of the patients. These machines can be operated and navigated through remote control,” he said.He added that over 25 doctors, besides over 75 nurses and para-medical staff, are involved in treating Covid patients at the CAPF referral hospital. “They have been classified into different groups. When a group’s job is over after treating patients in their respective units, we send that particular group on 14 days’ mandatory quarantine as a precautionary measure,” he said.Meanwhile, doctors treating Covid-19 patients in the hospital said that despite many odds, their efforts have not wavered. Dr Shailendra, a specialist physician, said he has not gone for the past 20-25 days. “To provide round-the-clock services to my patients, I am residing in the officers’ mess which is adjacent to the hospital. Of course, I miss my family. But treating these brave soldiers, who have been infected while performing their duties, is more important,” he said.Echoing similar views, Dr Pawan and Dr Pipreet, also said they derive happiness from the fact that a lot of jawans are treated and discharged. “It gives a different type of job satisfaction. The organisation or the nation is the first family for every soldier,” they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/g-noida-nearly-half-of-paramilitary-jawans-who-contracted-covid-19-discharged-in-three-weeks/story-8ELW7UqesHvmeUyJtfoANJ.html
23-05-2020||City||Punjab-origin woman police officer settles Scotland Yard racism case||One of Britain’s senior-most Indian-origin woman police officers, who took legal action against Scotland Yard over allegations of racial and gender discrimination, has struck a confidential settlement with the UK’s largest police force.Parm Sandhu, a chief superintendent with the Metropolitan Police, had claimed that she was denied promotions and opportunities at work due to her race and gender.The 55-year-old said she had agreed to a confidential settlement after she left the Metropolitan Police last year having been cleared of gross misconduct.“I have settled my claims with the MPS (Metropolitan Police Service). The terms of the settlement are confidential. I have no further comment to make,” she told the Daily Mirror.She is likely to have received a six-figure sum in pounds and signed a non-disclosure agreement, which means the details of the case cannot be aired in public.“Worked with some fabulous people. Had some good times and painful experiences but I know I made a difference,” Sandhu said soon after she quit the Met Police in October last year.The former officer took the legal step at the end of an internal Met Police investigation, which exonerated her of gross misconduct in June last year.The inquiry, launched in June 2018, focussed on whether Sandhu encouraged her colleagues to support her nomination for a Queen’s Police Medal (QPM), which is awarded twice a year by Queen Elizabeth II as part of her honours’ lists.The medals are given to serving police officers in the UK in recognition of distinguished service or outstanding courage in the line of duty.The internal Met Police investigation concluded that Sandhu had “no case to answer” and would face no further action, with restrictions on her duties at work being lifted.Sandhu, who joined the police service in 1989, rose through the ranks to become Borough Commander in Richmond-upon-Thames.She was one of the most senior ethnic minority woman officers in the Met Police and in 2006 received an Asian Women of Achievement Award for her achievements in the police force.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-origin-woman-police-officer-settles-scotland-yard-racism-case/story-XkbkzESyROwSf7DUa63z8K.html
23-05-2020||Mumbai||Palghar lynching: New SP appointed||The state home department appointed Dattatreya Shinde as the new superintendent of police (SP), Palghar, on Saturday. Shinde takes charge after Gaurav Singh, the SP who was in charge when the Palghar lynching incident took place, was sent on compulsory leave by home minister Anil Deshmukh on May 8. Singh has been transferred out of the district but is still awaiting his posting. Shinde had earlier served as the SP of Sindhudurg, Sangli and is currently posted at the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company (MSEDCL), head office at Bandra. Three people, including two seers, were lynched by more than 500 people at Gadchinchale village, Dahanu in Palghar district on April 16. So far, more than 160 accused have been arrested by the state CID which is probing the case. Ten arrested minors have been sent to children’s remand home in Bhiwandi. When produced before the Dahanu court on May 12, the accused mentioned in the first information report (FIR) number 76/2020 (attempt to murder charge) have been remanded in judicial custody, while the accused mentioned in FIR number 77/2020 (murder charge) have been remanded in police custody till May 26, said Parmanand Ojha, counsel for the three victims. “The list of accused is huge and CID is making arrests daily. As there are three FIRs filed in the case, the total number of arrested will only be clear after May 26,” said Ojha.Previously, the home ministry had suspended five police personnel, including the Kasa police in-charge assistant police inspector (API) Anandrao Kale; his subordinate, sub-inspector (SI) Sudhir Katare; and transferred about 35 police personnel from the station to various departments in Palghar district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/palghar-lynching-new-sp-appointed/story-u9LaLVs0yS9vGqNypLyiMP.html
23-05-2020||City||Cop’s son arrested for assaulting, trying to extort fruit vendor||Greater Noida: The 25-year-old son of a police sub-inspector was arrested on Friday night for allegedly assaulting and trying to extort protection money from a roadside fruit vendor in Sector Zeta 1.The victim, identified as Durgesh, was selling fruits outside a high-rise in Sector Zeta 1 on May 19 when the incident occurred, the police said.The vendor alleged that the suspect, along with three of his friends, approached him and asked for Rs 1,000 as protection money to continue selling fruits in the area. The complainant also said that the suspects were under the influence of alcohol at the time of the incident. “When I told them that I did not have the money, they brought a stick from their car and started assaulting me and vandalized my vend. Then they fled the spot,” said the vendor in his police complaint.An FIR was registered at Surajpur police station on Friday, the police said.The vendor alleged that the police tried to get the case settled without registering his FIR for almost three days and asked him to take Rs 2,000 from the suspect’s family. The incident came to light on Friday when its purported video started doing rounds on social media. However, police officials denied any delay in registering the case.“The prime suspect, Mohit, is the son of a sub-inspector posted with the Noida fire department. He was arrested on Friday night itself, while the role of other people is being investigated. Due legal action will be taken against all involved,” said Harish Chandra, deputy commissioner of police, Zone 2.The police said that the authenticity of the extortion bid claim is being verified, along with any other attempts of the suspects to take money from vendors.Mohit was produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cop-s-son-arrested-for-assaulting-trying-to-extort-fruit-vendor/story-AmHBUTeTNZMHDx0M3uU7KK.html
23-05-2020||City||Himachal to resume Inter-district bus services from June 1||The Himachal Pradesh Cabinet in a meeting held under the chairmanship of chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Saturday decided to resume inter-district and intra-district public transport, including state-run and private bus services, in the state from June 1.The buses will be plied with 60% occupancy. Public transport is on a halt since March 24, when a country-wide lockdown was imposed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Inter-state public transport will remain prohibited.The Cabinet further decided that the private schools in the state can charge only tuition fee from the students for the lockdown period. Schools cannot hike tuition fees or include any hidden charges in it, education minister Suresh Bhardwaj said while informing about the major decision taken in the meeting.He said that all the educational institutions will remain closed for an indefinite period until the decision is taken to open them.The Cabinet also gave nod to implement recommendations of 15th Central Finance Commission in the state, under which of the total grants received from it, 70% would be provided to gram panchayats, and 15% each to the panchayat samitis and zila parishads respectively to carry out developmental works.A decision was taken to upgrade veterinary hospital at Nagrota Bagwan in Kangra district to Zonal Veterinary Hospital along with creation and filling up of seven posts of different categories.The Cabinet also announced to launch ‘Rehabilitation of Stray Cattle’ scheme under which individuals and organisations will be encouraged to adopt stray cattle and provide assistance for running cow sanctuaries.In the initial phase, ₹500 per cow will be provided under the scheme.The Cabinet also decided to establish three Fast Track Special Courts at Shimla, Rampur, and Nahan to deal with the rape/Pocso cases for a period of one year.It also gave nod to shift works transactions of Jal Shakti department and public works department to treasury mode by abolishing the Line of Credit (LOC) system from July 1 to bring transparency, accuracy, and efficiency in the payment and accounting process.The Cabinet gave its consent to extend the period of four Special Land Acquisition Units (SLAUs) for a period of one year with effect from March 1, 2020, to February 28, 2021, along with permission to continue with staff already engaged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-to-resume-inter-district-bus-services-from-june-1/story-jcSHpMdAqm5rlXMDb81u9I.html
23-05-2020||City||Navi Mumbai’s Covid count in 1,561||With 74 new cases reported in Navi Mumbai on Saturday, the city’s tally is 1,561. Two deaths were also reported.Among those who tested positive are seven children, including a three-year-old girl from Ghansoli.Navi Mumbai municipal commissioner Annasaheb Misal said, “We have issued an order, asking all housing societies to give details to us online about those who have come to the society from other places. They should also inform us about those going outside NMMC jurisdiction every day.”Misal said, “Those who go to work outside the NMMC area, should self-isolated themselves as a preventive measure.”In Panvel, 19 new Covid positive cases were reported on Saturday, taking the total to 351. A 37-year-old man from Kalamboli died on Friday.Among the new cases are three members of a family from Kamothe and two police personnel of the same family from Kalamboli. One of them was deployed at APMC market in Vashi, from where he is believed to have contracted the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navi-mumbai-s-covid-count-in-1-561/story-OzsxdSh8EFiP5oxMIq0MWL.html
23-05-2020||Chandigarh||PU syndicate to take a call on tentative academic calendar for 2020-21||Members of the Panjab University (PU) syndicate will take a call on the tentative academic calendar for the varsity’s 2020-21 academic session on May 30.The academic calendar has been formulated considering the Covid-19 lockdown that resulted into the suspension of classes. The PU syndicate meet will have at least 23 items on its agenda. According to the tentative academic calendar, the ongoing semester will be extended for 13 days from June 16 to June 30. During this period, internships, summer trainings, internal assessments and practical examination will be held on the campus.Classes to begin on August 1The calendar provides that the exams will be held from July 7 to 30. The tentative date for declaration of results of final semesters is August 1 and for intermediary examinations, the date for results is August 14. The teaching process of ongoing classes at the teaching departments of PU, its affiliated colleges, regional centres and constituent colleges will start from the first day of August. Arun Kumar Grover, former vice-chancellor of PU, said, “Even many top-level universities have turned to online classes for next academic session. As we do not know when the lockdown will be over, I think the varsity should devise some mechanism to minimise the academic loss.”The admissions will start on August 1 and new classes will begin from August 18 to August 28.Saturdays to be working days The academic term which will start from August will have all Saturdays as working days till November 28. For the next semester, the final examinations will start from December 2 to December 24.The nine-day winter break will start from December 25 and the university will reopen on January, 4, 2021, for 90 days, excluding Saturdays and Sundays. Hike in rent on shooting on cards PU is also planning to increase the rent for shooting films, canopies, posters and hoarding. As per the proposal, PU will charge Rs 5 lakh as entry for indoor and outdoor shooting, which include tax of Rs 50,000 for shooting per day and Rs 1 lakh as security. Shoots will be prohibited in vice-chancellor’s office, girls’ hostel, administrative block, dental college, dispensary, residential area and in the library.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pu-syndicate-to-take-a-call-on-tentative-academic-calendar-for-2020-21/story-4YOzafRV2GL1JPuV4TguuK.html
23-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana high court cancels summer vacations||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Saturday announced cancellation of summer vacations scheduled in June in the high court and trial courts in both the states and Chandigarh.This year, vacations were scheduled between June 1 and June 26 in the high court and June 1 and June 30 in subordinate courts. The decision has been taken in view of the courts taking up only ‘urgent cases’ since March due to Covid-19 outbreak.The high court is functioning in a restricted manner since March 16. The trial courts too are taking up urgent cases only since March. Most of the pending cases are being adjourned and only those pending cases are being taken up, where an application is filed citing some urgency.In the high court, a dozen-odd benches are taking up ‘urgent matters’ through video conference. Against the normal listing of around 2,500 to 3,000 cases on any given day, the high court is hearing 200 odd-cases these days.“The court will function with the continuation of present arrangement of filing, listing and hearing of the cases through video conferencing,” an official said.Meanwhile, the Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association (PHHCBA) welcomed the decision. “Our demand is that the high court should do away with prior mentioning of cases before listing of fresh cases,” Bar secretary Rohit Sud said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-cancels-summer-vacations/story-h1V8IZM5Wqw8i3UGljrm2L.html
23-05-2020||Chandigarh||Deadline to affix HSRPs on vehicles extended till June 30||The Punjab government has extended the deadline for owners of vehicles registered in the state to get these affixed with High Security Registration Plates (HSRPs) till June 30. State transport minister Razia Sultana said this will be the final opportunity for vehicle owners as no further extension would not be given. Sultana added that HSRPs were mandatory in light of the orders of the Supreme Court of India and notifications by the Centre and the state. She added said that in addition to existing 22 fitting centres at district headquarters, 45 additional fitment centres had been established at the sub-divisional level. She added that to maintain social distance, vehicle owners will not be required to go to fitment centres and wait for their turn. An online system of pre-booking an appointment as per one’s convenience and payment of the fees has been activated on the website punjabhsrp.in in addition to a mobile application, HSRP Punjab. The minister clarified that HSRP on vehicles manufactured from April 2019 onwards are to be affixed from agencies where there were purchased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/deadline-to-affix-hsrps-on-vehicles-extended-till-june-30/story-MmmoxCTUnRZW8A8Q0gyecJ.html
23-05-2020||City||Markfed inspector assaulted in Batala grain market; 1 held||A 45-year-old inspector, Karan Sunil, working with Markfed, was injured after a group of four men assaulted him in the local grain market on Saturday. The incident began after Sunil intervened in an argument of truck drivers in the market over weight of their consignments to be sent out during the lockdown. Eyewitnesses claim that one of the assailants and the main accused, Randhir Singh, was dressed as a nihang, and was inebriated at the time of the incident. DSP City BK Singla, however, has denied that any of the four assailants is a nihang. On April 12, a Nihang had chopped off the hand of an assistant sub-inspector in Patiala. The other accused are Gurmeet Singh, Mangal Singh and Ravinder Singh. The victim Sunil has sustained injuries in his back and is admitted to the Batala civil hospital. The main accused, Randhir, has been arrested, but is also admitted to the civil hospital with injuries. The rest of the accused are absconding. Batala grain market president Malkit Singh said authorities needed to increase the security at the market for them to work peacefully. All accused have been booked under Section 353 (using assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 186 (voluntarily obstructing public servant from duty) of the Indian Penal Code.STRAP/BLURB Four men attacked him after a dispute over weight of a truck consignment; police refute eyewitness claim that the main accused is a nihang||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/markfed-inspector-assaulted-in-batala-grain-market-1-held/story-Wz876cOu6pDOnpZlYeHB7M.html
23-05-2020||Mumbai||12-year-old climate activist launches nationwide campaign for clean air||A 12-year-old climate activist has launched a nationwide campaign to ensure the air quality index (AQI) remains at safe standards even after the lockdown is lifted.Ridhima Pandey was one of the 16 children alongside Greta Thunberg to petition the United Nations Climate Action Summit against the lack of government action on climate change in September last year.As India completed two months of national lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic on Saturday, several studies have indicated a marked improvement in air quality over the past 60 days. “The campaign calls for immediate steps to ensure the AQI across India remains 60 throughout the year, which is considered healthy for breathing,” said Pandey.Along with Bengaluru-based digital advocacy organisation Jhatkaa.org, Pandey released a 60-second video on Saturday as a part of the campaign - #SaalBhar60 - to ensure AQI is 60 throughout the year.The campaign urges citizens to participate in a national digital movement on June 5, World Environment Day, by sharing their photos holding a placard saying ‘Clean Air for All’ and uploading it on social media platforms and tagging the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MOEF&CC).A corresponding petition on the platform asks for the initiation of an autonomous ‘Clean Air Authority’ who will solely be in-charge of reducing air pollution levels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/12-year-old-climate-activist-launches-nationwide-campaign-for-clean-air/story-4k0beJi0CpYTh9TT9RNrKP.html
23-05-2020||City||171 more Indians stranded in Canada land in Amritsar||A day after a repatriation flight ferrying 116 Indians stranded in Canada landed at Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport here, 171 more Indians evacuated from Canada arrived here on Saturday.Ajnala sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Deepak Bhatia said the flight landed at the airport at 2 am and after medical checkup, all the passengers were sent to their respective districts where they will be put under quarantine at government centres and hotels, as per their choice.Similar flights from Birmingham and Singapore are scheduled to land here on May 26 and May 27, respectively.Notably, these flights are being operated under Vande Bharat Mission launched by the central government to evacuate the Indian nationals stuck in various countries due to the lockdown imposed to contain the Covid-19 outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/171-more-indians-stranded-in-canada-land-in-amritsar/story-drBYyZuUUlBO476w4zWOiL.html
23-05-2020||City||After global press, Bihar girl gets a school, and a bicycle||Fifteen-year-old Jyoti Kumari, who has caught global attention after she carried her injured father on a cycle, peddling away a distance of nearly 1,200 km Gurugram to Darbhanga in eight days, has been granted admission into class 9. According to family sources, Jyoti, daughter of Mohan Paswan, had to drop out of school due to financial crisis a few years ago. District programme officer Sanjay Kumar Deo Kanhaiya said on Saturday that Jyoti has been granted admission in class 9 at the government school in Singhwara block. The education department also gifted her a brand new cycle, along with school dress, shoes, text books and stationary items on Saturday.Jyoti, who has been quarantined to home upon her return, expressed happiness that she would be able to go school again. “As of now, I will concentrate on my studies.” Asked about the tweet of appreciation for her by US president’s daughter Ivanka Trump, Jyoti said she came to know of it through a cousin. Ivanka had earlier tweeted that Jyoti’s “beautiful feat of endurance and love has captured the imagination of the Indian people and the cycling federation”.As far as offer from the Cycling Federation of India is concerned, she said she would decide about it in the coming month.Second among her five siblings, Jyoti has been home quarantined while her father Mohan Paswan stays at school quarantine centre.Mukesh Kumar Jha of Dr Prabhat Das Foundation, who was among the first to felicitate Jyoti with “Mithila Virangana Samman”, said she had shown exemplary courage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-global-press-bihar-girl-gets-a-school-and-a-bicycle/story-GfO2xglk05Bl1SY5QVHKZL.html
23-05-2020||Patna||Bihar picks 5,000 skilled migrants for road projects||Responding to chief minister Nitish Kumar’s call to provide jobs to migrant workers returning home, the road construction department (RCD) has identified around 5,000 migrants, who are currently under quarantine at various centres, to engage them in different road and bridge projects across the state.On Friday, Kumar had spoken to migrant workers staying in various quarantine centres via video conference and promised to provide employment to them.“We have identified around 5,000 skilled workers for construction work and asked agencies under the department to engage them,” RCD principal secretary Amrit Lal Meena said Saturday.The selection was made on the basis of database prepared after skill mapping 2.10 lakh workers who are in quarantine.“We are trying to rope in as many skilled workers in the ongoing 530 road and bridge projects as possible, without much financial implications,” said Meena.The National Highway Authorities of India, which is executing several mega projects in Bihar, including Mahatma Gandhi Setu, Koilwar bridge, and Patna-Buxar highway, has also been requested to hire the migrant labourers.Meena said the RCD had already requisitioned as many as 47 workers, currently under quarantine in Vaishali district, to join the workforce building the six-lane greenfield bridge over Ganga from Kachhi Dargah in Patna to Bidupur in Vaishali. He said many projects were facing shortage of labourers after a sizable chunk of them left for home districts in Bengal, Odisha and Jharkhand after the lockdown relief.A senior RCD official said hundreds of unskilled migrants have already by engaged for desilting of culverts, removal of grass and shrubs around roads and strengthening road shoulders.Providing employment to migrants has become a mammoth task for the state government, especially in view of the mounting offensive by the opposition parties ahead of the state polls later this year . Various departments, including rural development department, industries department and agriculture department, have already proposed various schemes to create job opportunities for the migrants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-picks-5-000-skilled-migrants-for-road-projects/story-bqr1aNAgjM64iXbtqrWSxO.html
23-05-2020||City||‘Allow women employees from Kasara, Karjat to travel in locals operational for CR staff’||The Railway Passengers Association for commuters from Karjat and Kasara has written a letter to Central Railway (CR), requesting it to allow women employees from these areas working in emergency services like Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), hospitals, and the police department in Mumbai, to travel in local trains operating for railway staff.Employees from these areas are being provided with buses for their daily commute. However, they have complained that no social distancing is followed due to the maximum number of passengers in each vehicle. The passengers association has therefore requested CR to allow at least women passengers to travel in the locals which are functional for railway employees.“The letter with the above request was written to the CR headquarters in Mumbai and was also addressed to the railways minister Piyush Goyal, on 22 May. At present, there are around 1 lakh citizens from the Kalyan-Karjat-Kasara belt who are travelling towards Mumbai daily to attend their jobs in emergency services in various government agencies. These employees are provided with Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) buses, at specific stops,” said Shyam Ubale, general secretary, Railway Passengers Association (Kalyan, Kasara, Karjat).“The employees travelling in these buses have noticed that no social distancing is followed. Hence, we have requested that at least women passengers should be allowed to travel in the local trains functioning for railway employees,” said Ubale.A 33-year-old woman passenger from Vasind, who works at Mumbai Police headquarters, has to travel around eight kilometres from her home, to board the BEST bus at Asangaon. “It’s difficult to maintain social distance on the bus as every seat is accommodated by passengers. If extra passengers board, we also have to adjust and make space for them to sit. In such cases, it increases the risk as far as the spread of the pandemic is concerned. Permission to travel in local trains operational for railway workers could help to resolve this issue,” she said.Another 35-year-old woman passenger from Kasara, who works as a bank employee in Mumbai, said, “As the passengers increase in the bus, it’s difficult to follow social distancing. After returning home, we may pose a risk to our family members, especially our children. Train travel will also reduce our daily commute time. We request CR to consider our request, at least for women passengers travelling to CSMT, who are serving in various government agencies,” she said.Local train services were made functional only for railway employees since Thursday, with limited services, informed a CR official from Mumbai.“Though the trains have been made functional, they are limited and exclusively for railway staff who have been deployed for essential services like operations of Shramik special trains. At present, these local services for railway employees are operated in the morning and evening between CSMT and Karjat and Kasara,” said a senior CR official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/allow-women-employees-from-kasara-karjat-to-travel-in-locals-operational-for-cr-staff/story-YC1mvICJyEVw6NJgfwcYfL.html
23-05-2020||Mumbai||Governor, CM like father and son, says Sena MP after meeting at Raj Bhavan||Amidst tension between Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and the Maha Vikas Aghadi government, Shiv Sena leader and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut on Saturday met the latter at Raj Bhavan. Raut later said that it was a courtesy call and there were no differences between his party and the Governor.Raut remarked that the relations between Koshyari and chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray are like those between a father and son. The meeting lasted for more than 20 minutes and Raj Bhavan later tweeted that it was a courtesy call by the MP. Raut’s visit is being seen as an attempt to attain a truce between the ruling party and Raj Bhavan. The meeting assumes significance as Raut had staunchly criticised Raj Bhavan for the delay in appointing Thackeray to the legislative council after the state cabinet recommended his name for the seat. Raut, while speaking to the media after his meeting, said that there were no differences between his party and the Governor. “The relations between the Governor and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray are very cordial and they respect each other. There are no differences between the two. Their relationship is like a father-son duo,” he said.The Governor on Friday had taken strong objection to higher and technical education minister and Shiv Sena leader Uday Samant’s letter to the University Grants Commission (UGC), requesting it not to conduct final year exams in the wake of the pandemic and lockdown. Governor Koshyari asked the CM to resolve the issue of the exams in the larger interest of the students. This is believed to be another episode of the ongoing tussle between the Governor and state government.Raut, however, tried to downplay the issue after the meeting and said, “The letter to the UGC was a personal opinion of the minister. What the Governor has said is his opinion. The issue will now be resolved by due deliberation.”Significantly, Raut has been a harsh critic of Koshyari. He had criticised the Governor by raising questions over delays in Thackeray’s appointment to the council. “Who is stopping him [Koshyari] from approving the recommendation?” he had questioned. Raut had earlier tweeted: “Raj Bhavan, governor’s house should not become centre for political conspiracy. Remember! History does not spare them who behave unconstitutionally. @maha_governor.”“Besides the tussle between the party and Governor Koshyari ahead of the government formation, there have been many occasions of tiffs between the ruling parties and Governor in the last six months. This is believably an attempt by the chief minister’s party to extend an olive branch to the Governor for them to begin the new relationship,” said a Sena leader.The MVA government — made up of Sena along with the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress — is also wary about the Governor not approving names given by the state for appointments to the 12 legislative council seats. The governor-appointed seats will fall vacant within the next three weeks. The attempt by Raut is also reportedly to minimise potential differences over the appointments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/governor-cm-like-father-and-son-says-sena-mp-after-meeting-at-raj-bhavan/story-gmnH3Cbts9p4Sq7GqjG4cK.html
23-05-2020||Mumbai||UP-bound Shramik train stops in Odisha; WR claims it was re-routed due to congestion||A few of the Shramik special trains being operated to transport migrant workers from the city to their hometowns in other states are taking longer to reach their destinations. According to the Western Railway (WR), this is due to the high number of trains — parcel and Shramik — being operated on the same routes without proper timetables, which has led to congestion. One such incident was highlighted when a Shramik train bound for Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh from Kalyan station (Central Railway) on Thursday, was rescheduled to leave from Vasai Road railway station (WR) instead due to congestion on the route. Because of this change, the train had to take an alternative route via Odisha.Passengers had expected to reach Gorakhpur by Saturday but the train instead stopped at Rourkela railway station in Odisha that afternoon. This led to confusion among passengers who thought the train was not going to its original destination. The passengers were also running out of food and water due to the extended journey.“Shramik special train set off to Gorakhpur (UP) from Vasai Road (Maharashtra) on 21st May, 2020 reaches Rourkela station in Odisha today morning. Clueless passengers claims that driver has lost the route. No official word from @WesternRly. Can someone help,” Twitter user @ritvick_ab posted online.Western Railway (WR) stated that the train was to depart from Kalyan railway station but due to heavy congestion on the route, it departed from Vasai Road railway station. It is expected to reach Gorakhpur today.“Vasai Road-Gorakhpur Shramik special train which departed on May 21 was to run on the Kalyan-Jalgoan-Bhusaval-Khandwa-Itarsi-Jabalpur-Manikpur route, but the train went to Gorakhpur via a diverted route [Bilaspur (SECR)-Jharsuguda-Rourkela-Adra-Asansol (ER), due to heavy traffic congestion on existing routes,” said Ravinder Bhakar, chief public relations officer, Western Railway.“Due to heavy congestion on the Itarsi-Jabalpur-Pt Deen Dayal Nagar route, it has been decided by the railway board to temporarily run the trains originating from Vasai Road, Udhna, Surat, Valsad, Ankleshwar of Western Railway, Konkan Railway, and some stations of Central Railway, on a diverted route via Bilaspur-Jharsugda-Raurkela.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/up-bound-shramik-train-stops-in-odisha-wr-claims-it-was-re-routed-due-to-congestion/story-evgd1yESM1A5TElRf6hWeN.html
23-05-2020||Patna||Centre gives a push to Bihar for scaling up testing||The Centre has decided to provide additional testing equipment to Bihar, in an effort to scale up testing for coronavirus in the state which is currently testing only around 2000 samples every day.An empowered group of officers (EG-2), created by the Central government to implement Covid-19 containment measures in the country, has recommended strengthening testing capability at the ICMR-Rajendra Memorial Research Institute of Medical Sciences (RMRIMS) in Patna.It has recommended equipping the RMRIMS with a ‘Cobas 6800’, a high-throughput instrument for conducting real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), which is a confirmatory test for Covid-19. The instrument will be dispatched from ICMR-Bangalore in a couple of days.“The instrument will allow the RMRIMS to test 1,000 samples a day. It is likely to be dispatched in a couple of days from ICMR-Bangalore,” said CK Mishra, secretary, ministry of environment, forest and climate change, also the head of the Centre’s EG-2 on Covid-19. This group looks after medical aspects like testing, hospital preparedness and critical care. The Central government has created 11 empowered groups of officers for Covid-19 management.“We have also sent 22 TrueNat machines to Bihar and are also facilitating ICMR’s approval to a private testing lab in Patna for conducting RT-PCR tests. With these, Bihar will be able to selectively test little more samples,” Mishra said.He said high positivity of cases to samples tested in Bihar was little worrying. Bihar’s positivity of cases was around 12% as compared to the national average of 5%. However, with increased testing and better contact tracing, the state can do well to contain the spread of the virus, Mishra said.Bihar’s case doubling period was eight days (as on May 19) against the national average of 13.28 days. It was testing 466 out of every 1 million people, as of May 21.Chief minister Nitish Kumar has already asked his officers to ramp up testing from an average 2,000 to 10,000 per day. The state had tested a total of 2,920 samples on Thursday after eight health facilities in districts were recently equipped with TrueNat and CB-NAAT machines.Seventeen out of every 1 million people have now tested positive for the virus in the state, with the migrants accounting for almost 59% of the state’s total Covid-19 cases, which was 2,263 on Saturday afternoon. Eleven people infected by the virus have died so far.As of now, the RMRIMS has a capacity to test 800 to 1,000 samples a day. “Once we get the Cobas 6800 instrument, we will be able to test 1,800 samples in a day,” said its director, Pradeep Das.“The instrument requires negative-pressure room (Airborne Infection Isolation Rooms, which help maintain clean conditions). We are talking to different air-conditioning firms and it may take us a week or so to have the system in place,” said Das.Meanwhile, the ICMR has given its nod to the Sen Diagnostics Pvt Ltd on Budh Marg in Patna to conduct RT-PCR tests. This is in addition to the Dr Lal Path Labs in Patna and the Path Kind Diagnostics Pvt Ltd in Patna and Muzaffarpur.“We are arranging to have the system functional soon after creating a separate kiosk for collection of swab samples. We will conduct the confirmatory test for Rs 3,000,” said Dr Sandeep Sen, director of the Sen Diagnostics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/centre-gives-a-push-to-bihar-for-scaling-up-testing/story-465dcBCuVzBP17Xzl8Co8M.html
23-05-2020||City||Another 1,000-bed Covid hospital to be set up in Thane||After numerous complaints that patients were suffering because of unavailability of hospital beds in Thane, state housing minister Jitendra Awhad announced on Saturday that a 1,000-bed hospital will be set up at Wagale Estate in Thane.The search is on for a place to set up a hospital in Kalwa and Mumbra.The work of setting up a 1,000-bed hospital is already on at Global Impact Hub in Saket. The decision to set up more hospitals was taken after a meeting held between Awhad and of Thane Municipal commissioner Vijay Singhal. After a patient died outside Kaushalya hospital on Thursday night, politicians demanded to increase the capacity of hospitals.A civic official requesting anonymity said, “The number of cases is increasing in the slum areas. In the past one month, the slums have seen cases rise by 1,500. Cases will increase during monsoon. The 1,000-bed hospital will be a temporary hospital set up by Mhada in the warehouse of a private company in Wagale Estate.”The number of cases in Kalwa and Mumbra are increasing, but there is only one hospital in Mumbra. Patients have to go to Thane for treatment.The official added, “We are planning to set up a 500-bed hospital in a school in Mumbra and another 500-bed hospital in Kalwa. We are still looking for space.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/another-1-000-bed-covid-hospital-to-be-set-up-in-thane/story-YoaM7dQf8zHma5nRdVti2H.html
23-05-2020||City||Anticipating passenger rush, Ludhiana’s Sahnewal airport seeks daily flights to Delhi||Anticipating a rush of passengers for the Ludhiana-Delhi flight which is all set to resume operations from Monday, the Sahnewal airport authorities have requested Air India to run the flights six days a week. The Alliance Air flight operated four times a week before the lockdown was clamped on March 24 due to the coronavirus outbreak.Bookings for the Ludhiana to New Delhi Alliance Air flight (AI-9838) have already started. The flight will operate four days a week (Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday). The 70-seater turbo propeller ATR aircraft will depart from Ludhiana at 3:25pm and arrive at New Delhi at 4:40pm. The flight is expected to land at Sahnewal airport at 2:45pm.Sahnewal airport director AN Sharma said, “As Shatabdi train to Delhi has been not resumed yet, we are expecting more passengers and made arrangements accordingly. We have requested Air India to operate the flight six days a week.”Sharma said that earlier the flight used to stop for 20 minutes after landing at the airport before returning to Delhi, but from Monday, the flight will stop for 40 minutes for sanitisation and social distancing between passengers deboarding the flight.He added that the passengers have been advised to wear mask, carry a hand sanitiser, and download the Aarogya Setu app in their phones. The app has been made compulsory for passengers for allowing entry to the airport as per the standard operating procedure issued by the Airports Authority of India (AAI). Thermal screening of passengers will also be mandatory before boarding the plane, for which medical teams have been deputed at the airport, said Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/anticipating-passenger-rush-ludhiana-s-sahnewal-airport-seeks-daily-flights-to-delhi/story-gk2uMNocR76fmnJeRGbuiM.html
23-05-2020||City||Stray cow falls into underconstruction rainwater harvesting well, rescued||A stray cow fell into a 10-feet deep underconstruction rainwater harvesting well at a park of Sector 32, Chandigarh Road, on Saturday. Shri Ji Gau Sewa Society members Rajesh Singla and Manish Jangra said there was no barricading done around the site as the construction work was put to halt amid the lockdown. “However, the Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA) officials responded quickly and the cattle was rescued with the help of a crane,” they said. A group of locals, however, slammed GLADA and its contractor for not setting up barricades around the site, saying that anybody, especially a child, might fall into the pit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/stray-cow-falls-into-underconstruction-rainwater-harvesting-well-rescued/story-S5OjINMHiv6AwuGMfEV3RM.html
23-05-2020||City||Make an informed choice while buying household devices during lockdown||New Delhi: Covid-19 and the resultant lockdown has made the Indian middle-class realize how dependent they are on house helps and cooks and how difficult life is without them. And this has suddenly made consumers look at household gadgets that make life easier in the absence of these employees. In the long wish list of consumers are robotic floor sweeping and mopping machines --- there are a wide variety of them in the market today, vacuum cleaners to remove dust from table tops and such surfaces, dish washers, vegetable and fruit cleaners. There is also, I find, added interest in newer models of food processors, roti making machines, washing machines and driers. But given the economic impact of the disease, there is also some hesitation in investing in these gadgets.Manufacturers therefore have to go all out to woo consumers with genuine discounts, offer of interest free instalments and promise of quick delivery and installation. In fact many consumers are worried about the possible contamination of the purchased products and so manufacturers and retailers have to reassure them about the measures that they are taking to prevent the spread of the virus from the goods delivered or from the delivery and installation personnel. Similarly, the delivery and installation have to be prompt and quick and both the personnel need to stick to the time schedules worked out with the consumers. Since many consumers are also interested in replacing their old machines with new ones, manufacturers should also come up with attractive exchange offers that considerably bring down the price of the gadget. As far as consumers are concerned, I would suggest that they not only make an informed choice in terms of quality and price, but also look at the energy consumption of the gadget. And of course they must read consumer reviews, particularly complaints if any, besides checking on the warranty offered by the company. Talking of warranties, many manufacturers and retailers push consumers into buying expensive extended warranties. I would advise consumers against it because an extended warranty is basically a ploy on the part of the manufacturer to earn some extra profits because he is too well aware that the possibility of a customer utilizing that warranty is relatively low. In other words, most good quality gadgets do not break down or require change of parts in the initial years, so why waste that money?Interestingly, a 2018 Stanford University (USA) study pointed out that the strong demand for extended warranties and the high profits accruing to the companies from the sale of such warranties stem from consumer misconception about the failure rate or the failure probability of the product. So “providing information to consumers about failure probabilities significantly reduces their willingness to pay for warranties…” the study said.In fact I would suggest that consumers put the money that they would spend on the extended warranty in a separate savings account, to be used for any replacement of parts or repairs if required during that period. If not, you have saved that amount!I would also suggest that you consider carefully, the usefulness of a product in the long run, before making a purchase decision. I remember those vacuum cleaners that many of us bought some three decades ago. They were hardly used because the house helps who did the sweeping and mopping were far more efficient.Similarly, before replacing your old gadget with a new one, consider whether the qualities and advantages being attributed to the new models are really true or just a marketing gimmick and whether you are really benefitting from changing the model and spending that extra amount. In short, be a smart consumer and make only those purchases that are to your advantage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/make-an-informed-choice-while-buying-household-devices-during-lockdown/story-EioG3EDuFRRbpWVbtjmQwN.html
23-05-2020||City||BOPEE told to call for domicile certificates at the time of counselling||The Jammu and Kashmir administration has advised the Board of Professional Entrance Examination (BOPEE) to call for domicile certificates only from the candidates shortlisted for the counselling and not insist upon their production from the candidates at the time of submission of online forms.According to an advisory, the Board has been advised to modify its notification to provide for self-declaration of domiciliary status at the time of submission of online forms as per the new Domicile Rules while further stating that only shortlisted candidates may be asked to produce Domicile Certificate at the time of counselling. The advisory further goes on to advise the Board that only those candidates who produce Domicile Certificates during counselling should be selected.This advisory has been issued to set at rest any apprehensions in the minds of the candidates regarding the issue.The administration has also advised the BOPEE to explore the possibility of extending the last date of submitting application forms in the CET examination to June 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bopee-told-to-call-for-domicile-certificates-at-the-time-of-counselling/story-ZpxKjHkLokf7VCbRr6hhZO.html
23-05-2020||City||Self-styled godman booked for organising congregation at Delhi temple||New Delhi: A self-styled godman, Daati Maharaj, was booked on Saturday for allegedly organising a religious congregation at a temple on Friday, in contravention of the nationwide lockdown in place to stem the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Several photographs in which many people, including children, were seen attending a religious congregation surfaced on social media on Saturday morning. Several social media users said the photograph was of Daati Maharaj and his followers.Hindustan Times could not independently verify the authenticity of the photos, but Delhi Police confirmed they were of the self-styled preacher at his temple in Asola.Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said the visuals of a ceremony at Shanidham Mandir in Asola near Mehrauli showed that people present there were not following social distancing norms, and that the temple had been opened to the public despite government orders that has prohibited religious gatherings.Thakur said Daati Maharaj — the chief priest of the temple, and some others were at the temple for nearly three hours for the ceremony, starting at 7.30pm on Friday.During a preliminary enquiry, Thakur said, police found that Daati Maharaj, the chief priest of temple, along with some others had gathered for a ceremony for nearly three hours, starting at 7.30 pm on Friday. The officer said that a case under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code, Section 54 of Disaster Management Act, and Section 3 of Epidemic Diseases Act has been registered at Maidan Garhi police station.“Being the chief priest of the temple, Daati Maharaj has been named in the FIR along with others, who are being identified,” Thakur said, adding that the investigating team has began their probe and are questioning Daati Maharaj and his associates who were present at the temple on Friday evening.The self-styled preacher could not be contacted for his comment. A person, who answered the phone on a number mentioned on the temple’s website, said Daati Maharaj was “present in the temple but was unavailable for a comment”.A senior investigator, who did not want to be named, said they have learnt that a political leader was also present in the religious congregation.“We are examining CCTV footage from cameras installed at the temple and on the road outside. All those who violated the lockdown rules will be identified and booked in the case,” the investigator added.The self-styled preacher and his two associates were booked in 2018 for allegedly raping and sexually assaulting an inmate of his ashram. A case was registered on the woman’s complaint and it was transferred to the crime branch. The case was later transferred to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/self-styled-godman-booked-for-organising-congregation-at-delhi-temple/story-w6VGyhqZo1fyH7LKASCqSO.html
23-05-2020||City||Punjab health minister takes stock of facilities in Mohali markets||As the district has no active Covid-19 case and things are moving towards normalcy, Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Saturday visited various markets in Mohali to take stock of the situation. Retailers of various markets, including Phases 11, 10, 9, 7, 3B2 and 5, raised issues such as parking problems and ineffective sewerage system. Retailers of Palika Market, Phase 11, spoke about the pending courtyard work, ineffective sewerage system, parking problems being faced by residents, and improvement of approach road.Likewise, Phase 10 market retailers sought installation of pavers and shopkeepers in Phase 9 market sought better sanitary conditions and more greenery, while Phase 3B2 traders demanded relaxation in property tax.The shopkeepers also requested the minister not to allow street vendors to sell products on rehris in Phase 7 market which was a major cause for congestion there. “With the situation moving fast towards normalcy, the overall development of Mohali needs to be fast-tracked as the city is an emerging hub of infrastructural development,” said Sidhu. He assured the traders that all issues will be addressed and he will take them up at higher level. “A sum of Rs 1.45 crore is to be released for the overall development of cooperative housing societies in Mohali,” he said.Emphasising on cleanliness, Sidhu said having a hygienic environment was the need of the hour to ensure that Mohali remains coronavirus free.He also urged residents to abide by social-distancing norms to stay safe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-health-minister-takes-stock-of-facilities-in-mohali-markets/story-gEIMBAb5ol5mFSY3i2NJFI.html
23-05-2020||Kolkata||Cyclone-ravaged Bengal records highest Covid-19 tests at 9,009 on Saturday||Despite large areas in its southern part being ravaged by cyclone Amphan, Bengal on Saturday recorded its highest number of Covid-19 tests in a day, testing 9,009 samples, the state’s health department said.After testing about 8,500 tests for a few days, Bengal’s testing took a hit due to the cyclone Amphan. On March 19 and 20, it tested 8,712 and 8,722 samples, respectively. However, after the storm devastated large swathes of south Bengal on May 20, the count almost halved to 4,242 tests on Thursday before regaining some ground on Friday with 5,355 tests.“We have been steadily increasing the number of tests over the past three weeks. Testing got hit over the last two days as those who work in the laboratories could not reach their workplaces. Special arrangements were made to ensure the labs worked in their full strength and we got the result on Saturday,” said a senior health department official who did not want to be named.Bengal’s low testing rate – one of the poorest among the major states in testing per million population – had triggered a massive controversy in April but the state, from the first week of May, started improving the number of tests.On Saturday, the state reported that the testing per million of population had increased to 1,440. In contrast on May 4, Bengal’s figure for testing per million stood at only 279. The national average, as of May 22, is slightly below 2,000 tests per day.“Bengal is improving very fast and I am hopeful that the state will soon catch up with the national average,” said public health expert Rezaul Karim.As on May 23, Bengal has conducted 129,608 tests. Till May 4, the state had tested only 25,116 samples.The state also reported 127 new cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the tally to 3,332. Out of this, 1,281 have recovered and have been discharged. Bengal has attributed 197 deaths to Covid-19 and 72 deaths to co-morbidity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/cyclone-ravaged-bengal-records-highest-covid-19-tests-at-9-009-on-saturday/story-H4xMHXVh3Tj8par1mW6OPM.html
23-05-2020||Pune||Pune reports seven deaths, 205 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday||The city, on Saturday, reported seven deaths and 205 positive Covid-19 cases in 24 hours taking the total death count to 248 and progressive positive cases to 4,603. According to officials of the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) health department, 92 people were discharged after being declared virus-free, taking the count of discharged to 2,463. Currently, there are 1,892 active cases in the city admitted in various city hospitals. The seven deaths include four at Sassoon Hospital, a 65-year-old female from Yerawada, a 67-year-old female from Hadapsar, a 52-year-old male from Shukrawar peth and a 51-year-old male from Ganj peth.The other reported deaths are that of a 61-year-old male from Sadashiv peth reported at Naidu hospital, a 61-year-old male from Shukrawar peth reported from Poona Hospital and a 59-year-old female from Ruby Hall Clinic. PMC, along with the state to purchase a new testing machinePMC along with the state government will purchase a new testing machine which will be operational at Sassoon hospital. This will increase the testing capacity of the city, tweeted Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-reports-seven-deaths-205-fresh-covid-19-cases-on-saturday/story-ocQfxDXZMB9M6sTvbTHuUP.html
23-05-2020||City||Delhi govt to use Ola and Uber cabs as ambulances||New Delhi: The Delhi government will start deploying cabs of aggregators Ola and Uber as ambulances for non-Covid and non-critical patients in the Capital.The government, in an order issued on May 21, also fixed the rates for these taxi-ambulances at Rs 1,000 for 8 hours for 80 kilometres. Any extra kilometre will be charged at Rs 8 per km, while cost of an extra hour will be Rs 80 per hour. Parking and toll charges will be extra and hourly charges will be applicable after 30 minutes, the order said. “The taxis so hired would be placed at the disposal of Director CATS Ambulance who, in view of increased demand of ambulance service, use these vehicles to carry non-covid, non-critical patients from and to the hospital in coordination with CATS Ambulance helpline 102,” the order read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-to-use-ola-and-uber-cabs-as-ambulances/story-UMnfcKnnBFmG22YEekS9YM.html
23-05-2020||City||Team of 64 at AIIMS separates conjoined twins in 24-hour surgery||New Delhi: Doctors at All India Institute of Medical Sciences separated a pair of twins joined at the hips in a surgery lasting a little over 24-hours. Sixty-four healthcare workers came together to pull off the surgery, which started at 8:30am on Friday and ended at 9am on Saturday, according to the hospital.The 2-year-old girls had fused spinal bones, spinal cord, and intestines. Along with that they also had abnormalities of the heart and major blood vessels.The twins also did not have enough skin to cover the area of separation, according to the AIIMS officials. Doctors from paediatric surgery, cardio-thoracic and vascular surgery, anaesthesiology and plastic surgery were involved.After a successful separation, the twins have been kept under close monitoring by the doctors.The director of the institute Dr Randeep Guleria gave a go-ahead for the surgery even as routine surgeries and consultations at the hospital remain on a hold to prevent spread of Covid-19.Several twins have consulted doctors at the hospitals, since AIIMS came to limelight for separating the Odisha-twins conjoined at their head almost three years ago. Jagga and Balia were the first pair of craniopagus twins, or twins conjoined at the head, to have survived a separation surgery in India. Their skull and parts of their brain was fused and shared a circulatory system. Theirs was a two-step surgery – first one lasting 25-hours and second lasting 16-hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/team-of-64-at-aiims-separates-conjoined-twins-in-24-hour-surgery/story-cWSHGOTxJBFim23Q5ld4mJ.html
23-05-2020||City||Mohali shopkeeper held for selling spurious water filter parts||A shopkeeper was held for selling and storing counterfeit spare parts and filters of reverse osmosis (RO) systems worth ₹ 20 lakh in Zirakpur’s Baltana.The accused was identified as Malkiat Singh, owner of ASP Trading in Baltana market. Police said they raided the shop after a complaint was lodged by an officer of V Guard company, Munish Jindal, and his team member, Ramesh Dutt. “We have seized spurious products worth ₹ 20 lakh from the shop and have sealed the material stored in three godowns,” said police. Mohali senior superintendent of police (SSP) Kuldeep Singh Chahal police had booked the accused under the Copy Rights Act at the Zirakpur police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-shopkeeper-held-for-selling-spurious-water-filter-parts/story-EgZ0umwLbuDC3fyBD6adnI.html
23-05-2020||City||Stop free travel facility for labourers, CICU to Punjab govt||Citing free travel as the reason behind the movement of migrants, Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU) along with 33 affiliated industrial associations has urged the state government to stop the free trains for the migrants wishing to return to their home states.In a letter written to the Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday, the industrialists said that the industry is in dire need of labourers as the industrial operations are gaining momentum in the city. “Around 50% of the labourers working in the units have gone and many more have registered themselves for the journey. Most of them are returning to their hometowns only because the government is providing the free travel facility. The government should start charging for the journey. This way, most of the workers would stay back and the industry which is moving towards a crises, would be able to revive,” said CICU president Upkar Singh Ahuja and general secretary Pankaj Sharma. Knitwear Club president Darshan Dawar said, “Already reeling under losses, the hosiery industry is suffering a lot with the migrants returning to their home states.”“While the labourers are moving out of the city, there is no arrangement for those who want to return from other states and work. The labourers in the hosiery used to arrive in the city in the beginning of April, work for the entire season and then return to their hometown. But this year, the labourers are not able to come and the ones present in the city are exploiting the owners by charging more for work,” he said. Owner of one of the hosiery units in Wait Ganj area, Karan Bajaj, said that the labourers who were willing to work are also moving out after the government announced free travel facility. “We used to commence the manufacturing process in the April. This year, the hosiery industry is in a dilemma and wondering how to manufacture the goods in the absence of workers,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/stop-free-travel-facility-for-labourers-cicu-to-punjab-govt/story-Z5zTF90TaR0IDvxWG1ksvN.html
23-05-2020||City||Hotel owner held for violating lockdown norms in Zirakpur||A hotel owner was arrested for violating lockdown norms in Zirakpur. The accused has been identified as Pankaj Singh, a resident of Sector 45, Chandigarh.Police said the accused was held after his hotel was found operational beyond permissible time limit, while adding that the Mohali administration had allowed operation of all commercial activity till 7pm in wake of the lockdown. However, when the patrolling team found the Zirakpur-based hotel functional and violating the rules, a case was registered against the owner at the Zirakpur police station, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hotel-owner-held-for-violating-lockdown-norms-in-zirakpur/story-0gVmPVJbQv7acKg1LskUTM.html
23-05-2020||Chandigarh||Parents protest at Chandigarh school over tuition fee demand amid lockdown||Scores of parents gathered at Ajit Karm Singh International Public school (AKSIPS), Sector 45, to protest against demand for tuition fee amid the Covid-19 lockdown, on Saturday.Parents alleged that the school was charging monthly fee in the name of tuition fee, which was against the directives of the Chandigarh administration. They demanded that the school should not seek fee during the lockdown period.Parents said the amount of fee charged before and after lockdown was the same.Jasdeep Kalra, director of AKSIPS, said, “We are following the directives of the court and Chandigarh administration. Some parents informed that they could not pay the fee. We asked them to submit a representation and told them that the management will take note of it.”Kalra said, “However, we have to pay our teachers. We have been taking online classes from day one of the lockdown. We have not forced any parent to pay the fee. We are only complying with the directives of the administration.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/parents-protest-at-chandigarh-school-over-tuition-fee-demand-amid-lockdown/story-2xRkrQVAtg2L6wBSg6HhGK.html
23-05-2020||City||Anandpur Sahib MP shows gratitude on completing one year of his tenure||Anandpur Sahib Lok Sabha member Manish Tewari thanked voters of his constituency on completing one year of his five-year tenure.Tewari said that there will be no lack of development in the constituency and added that he will try his best to fulfil all the promises. Mentioning about his achievements, he said that in the last one year, he had got approval to start BSc agriculture at Punjab Agricultural University’s research station located at Ballowal Saunkari, Balachaur, to encourage agricultural activities in the area. The construction work of road from Banga to Naina Devi was also in the pipeline, he added.Tewari said he had also appealed to external affairs minister S Jaishankar to open a passport centre in Nawanshahr, but the Central government was less attuned to the MPs of the opposition parties. He further said that he had also tried to meet the development needs in the region with his MPLAD fund.In the end, he said that there will be no shortage of funds for the development of area under the leadership of Captain Amarinder Singh in Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/anandpur-sahib-mp-shows-gratitude-on-completing-one-year-of-his-tenure/story-wk8gvl8mqA9wTMFSA1qYZM.html
23-05-2020||City||1,600 more migrants take train from Mohali for Bihar||As many as 1,600 more migrants left the Mohali railway station for Bhaglapur in Bihar on Saturday.Even though Mohali is now corona-free with no active cases at present, the district administration ensured that the migrant workers adhered to the guidelines of social distancing and were screened thoroughly before they boarded the train.Meanwhile, packets of food, water and biscuits were given to the passengers.In a novel initiative, around 1,625 vials of the homeopathic immuno booster medicine Arsenicum Album 30 was also distributed among migrant workers and staff on duty by civil dispensary in Phase 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1-600-more-migrants-take-train-from-mohali-for-bihar/story-o4Cbun5GwCDDl1YVcIOSgN.html
23-05-2020||City||3 industrial units in Ludhiana get benefit of ₹5.94cr under Industrial and Business Development Policy||Three units in Ludhiana district received benefits of ₹5.94 crore under Industrial and Business Development Policy, 2017, in terms of electricity duty exemption and reimbursement of stamp duty.A meeting was conducted with the district-level committee under chairmanship of deputy commissioner (DC) Pradeep Agrawal on Friday. It was attended by Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU) president Upkar Singh Ahuja, who was present as a representative from the industry, along with other officials from various departments as designated members of the committee. General manager, district industries centre (DIC), Ludhiana, Mahesh Khanna said, “Three cases were put up before the committee and approved. In two cases pertaining to M/s Panama Alloys INC, GT Road, VPO- Jugiana, Ludhiana, and M/s Radha Plastic Industries, Fatehgarh Gujjran, Ludhiana; benefits of 100% electricity duty exemption amounting to ₹4.63 crore and ₹1.20 crore, respectively, for a period of seven years was approved. In the third case, a benefit in terms of reimbursement of stamp duty amounting to ₹9.25 lakh was given to M/s SG Multimetals, Bhadla, Ludhiana.”DC Agrawal said that this will surely boost the morale of the industry and more industrialists would come forward to get the benefits under this scheme. “The policy has multiple benefits and the monitoring of applications is done by the highest authorities of the departments so that the clearances are given on time,” he said.He said, “All new and expansion/modernisation projects can apply on business first web portal and get all regulatory and fiscal incentives online in a time-bound manner. State government has recently notified an amendment whereby all projects with investment up to ₹10 crore in plant and machinery can be approved by the district-level committee which is headed by the DC.”Giving further details, he said, “In Ludhiana, 335 applications of fresh investment and upgradation of existing units has been received on the portal till date. The industries department has deputed a business facilitator at the DIC to help the industrialists. For any details, the entrepreneurs can contact the general manager, DIC, Ludhiana.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-industrial-units-in-ludhiana-get-benefit-of-5-94cr-under-industrial-and-business-development-policy/story-bIWjGH4nWIjbtBjLBeqL3N.html
23-05-2020||Dehradun||In biggest single-day spike, Uttarakhand reports 91 Covid-19 cases, tally at 244||In the biggest single-day spike of Covid-19 cases in Uttarakhand till now, 91 cases were reported from the state on Saturday, taking the tally of total cases to 244. All cases reported were of those who returned to the state from other parts of the country. 55 of these 91, were reported in Nainital who had returned from Maharashtra, said health officials. A bulletin released by the health department on Saturday evening confirmed the development. Till Saturday afternoon, Rudraprayag was the only district without any cases. However, three fresh cases were reported from the district in the evening. With this, now all districts in the state have Covid-19 cases. So far 157 migrants have tested positive for Covid-19 in Uttarakhand.The district-wise details of the new cases include Nainital (57), Dehradun (10), Haridwar (2), Almora (3), Champawat (7), Pithoragarh (2) and Uttarkashi (3), Udham Singh Nagar (3), Rudraprayag (3), Pauri Garhwal (2).State health officials informed that 55 patients from Nainital tested positive on Saturday evening, all with a travel history from Maharashtra. The migrants had reached Haridwar from Maharashtra by train and from there they had reached Haldwani by bus. Rest of the positive cases had a travel history from Rajasthan, Delhi, Gurugram, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Saharanpur. The increasing number of cases has become a matter of concern for the health department in the state now. The recovery rate has also been reducing gradually in the state and reduced by almost 30% in the past ten days. The recovery rate now stands at eight days for the past seven days. Amit Negi, secretary for health in the state in a meeting with officials from the department on Saturday asked all chief medical officers to improve the health infrastructure in their districts giving them a ‘free-hand’ to improve the health system.“All districts should ensure the installation of adequate number of ICU beds, ventilators, procurement of medicines and oxygen supply so that we are ready to tackle any extreme possible situation,” said Negi. He asked officials to update him regularly on the current situation regarding Covid-19 in respective districts.On May 4, when Lockdown 3.0 started, Uttarakhand had reported 60 cases and now the tally stands at 1244 cases. On Friday seven cases were detected all of whom were men. Out of the seven new cases detected on Friday, three were reported from Dehradun, two from Haridwar and two from US Nagar. Of three in Dehradun, one had returned from Delhi while another from Mumbai. The third patient is a Thalassemia patient. In US Nagar, one had returned from Delhi and another from Mumbai. In Haridwar, one is a resident of Luxer area in the district, while the other one had returned from Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/in-biggest-single-day-spike-uttarakhand-reports-91-covid-19-cases-tally-at-244/story-fcpAAghfxqDnn8Tm2JbdgM.html
23-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh residents raise civic issues with city BJP chief||The Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs) under Chandigarh Resident Associations Welfare Federation (CRAWFED) on Saturday held a video conference with Chandigarh Bharatiya Janata Party president Arun Sood and flagged various civic issues. Members of the associations spoke about sanitisation, shifting of the vegetable market from Sector 17 to Sector 39; and menace due to beggars, garbage and illegal vendors. Residents sought Covid-19 dispensaries for all sectors and random testing for the virus.Sood urged people not to panic and said sector-wise testing will be possible, but Chandigarh was conducting tests according to Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines and the administration was earmarking more Covid-19 hospitals in Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-residents-raise-civic-issues-with-city-bjp-chief/story-MEpyLzppMwnHyAMW7rMpKM.html
23-05-2020||City||No food and water, migrants aboard train to Bihar fume as it reaches Odisha||The Indian Railways was left red faced on Saturday after a Shramik Special train which started its journey from Mumbai for Madhubani on May 21 reached Odisha’ s Rourkela without intimating the passengers about the change in the route.The news came to lights after the passengers shared the same on social media.A report quoting a senior railway ministry official in Delhi said, “We have decided to run a few Shramik trains on diverted routes. Some trains are diverted for Bihar via Rourkela to clear congestion.”A migrant labourer asked, “Are we on the Bharat Darshan trip?”Pramod Singh Yadav, a relative of a passenger in the Shramik Special took to Twitter on Saturday to write, “The train had departed from Bandra for Darbhanga at 5.30 pm on May 21. Passengers were clueless about the train route. It had reached Kustaur station after it had crossed Rourkela in Odisha earlier in the day. No food except biscuit and water was being served to passengers.”Officials at Darbhanga station confirmed that a train from Mumbai was expected to reach Darbhanga via Jhajha by midnight. On the other hand, East Central Railway (ECR) had tweeted that train number 09259 Bandra-Madhubani Shramik Special will arrive at Madhubani at 11.55pm on May 23.“We boarded the Shramik Special train on May 21 to go back to Darbhanga. However, despite 48 hours of journey we are still nowhere near Bihar. We do not have anything to eat and there is no water on the train,” said a passenger on the phone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-food-and-water-migrants-aboard-train-to-bihar-fume-as-it-reaches-odisha/story-bAKtl7UrSqbOm9SLQrOfbO.html
23-05-2020||City||Dadri civil surgeon meets staff in T-shirt and shorts, complaint reaches CM||Dadri civil surgeon has sparked controversy once again; this time for coming to the hospital in shorts and T-shirt on Saturday morning.A video of him sporting the casual outfit and talking to the hospital staff without wearing a face also surfaced on the social media. He is also seen taking rounds of the hospital premises in the clip.A nurse requesting anonymity said she was astonished on seeing the civil surgeon in shorts and T-shirt, which is a clear violation of the dress code.“Dr Sharma played with our lives. He was moving around the hospital without a face mask. The doctors and nurses are scared and they are not in a position to ask him to take precautionary measures while visiting the hospital. If our leader will violate the rules and regulations, what can we expect from the staff,” she added.On this, Independent MLA from Dadri, Sombir Sangwan, sent a complaint to chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and health minister Anil Vij.“The surgeon’s dress code is not acceptable and the hospital is not his home where he can wear anything. He had held a meeting with the hospital staff while not wearing a mask which poses a great risk of infection to others. I have urged the CM and health minister to take action against Dr Sharma,” Sangwan said.The civil surgeon, however, said he had gone for a morning walk at 8am, following which he went to hospital to take stock of the preparations to tackle Covid-19 rise.When asked about his attire and not wearing a mask, Dr Sharma said, “I was in shorts and T-shirt because it was my weekly off. I only went to a few safe areas of the hospital and held a meeting with my staff members. Later, I returned home,” Sharma added.Last month, the deputy commissioner had issued a show-cause notice to Dr Sharma for leaving the district headquarters on April 25 and 26 without prior permission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dadri-civil-surgeon-meets-staff-in-t-shirt-and-shorts-complaint-reaches-cm/story-TWn32NzZqp7JQFQGgjgMeP.html
23-05-2020||City||Coronavirus lockdown: Three auto-rickshaw drivers booked for ferrying more passengers in Ludhiana||Two auto-rickshaw drivers were booked for ferrying passengers amid the coronavirus lockdown, police said on Saturday.Haibowal police booked three-wheeler drivers Aman Kumar of New Subhash Nagar and Tilak Raj of Raju Colony for ferrying more than five passengers on Friday, while division number 4 police arrested Kashmiri Lal of New Bhagwan Nagar for ferrying four passengers and not wearing a mask.22 CURFEW VIOLATIONSMeanwhile, a total of 22 cases of curfew violations were registered in the city during the day. As many as 16 people were booked for not wearing masks, while four cases were registered for riding double on two-wheelers.In Model Town, a shopkeeper, Jasleen Singh, was arrested for opening his ice cream shop after 6pm in Taj Ganj area of the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-lockdown-three-auto-rickshaw-drivers-booked-for-ferrying-more-passengers-in-ludhiana/story-6TdrJhaZIYJcawlgPTKUzM.html
23-05-2020||City||Ludhiana college concludes two-day symposium on coronavirus’ impact on education||Two-day online symposium ‘Indian Education: Coronavirus’ impact, challenges and opportunities’ organised by Gujranwala Guru Nanak Khalsa College, Ludhiana, concluded on Saturday. On the concluding day of the session, dean college development council Sanjay Kaushik was the chief guest, while the resource persons for the technical session were -- deputy director of the centre for online education, Indira Gandhi National Open Univeristy, Nisha Singh; National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) adviser Ganesh Hegde, who focussed on the challenges and opportunities the present situation has brought at the doorsteps of each and every individual.FOCUS ON LEARNING MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS Professor Sanjay Kaushik focussed on the free of cost learning management systems available online such as edX and asked the teachers to train themselves for the coming new era of blended learning. Nisha Singh discussed the nuances of online education, while Ganesh Hegde emphasised on the importance of e-content and e-learning in the accreditation process. Former vice-chancellor of Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, SP Singh, talked about digital learning and advised teachers to adapt to new e-textbooks, technology enhanced teaching and learning. He also spoke about the need of blended learning in the present situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gujranwala-guru-nanak-khalsa-college-concludes-two-day-symposium-on-coronavirus-impact-on-education/story-k4ZBPfFOhdv23itRcHIRUK.html
23-05-2020||City||With 64 fresh infections, Haryana tally climbs to 1,131||Sixty-four more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Haryana on Saturday, taking the total number of cases in the state to 1,131, officials said.As many as 21 of the 76 Haryana natives deported back from the US and brought to Panchkula are among those who have tested positive for the virus.While 16 of these positive cases who hailed from Panchkula, Ambala, Yamunanagar, Kurukshetra and Karnal, will be admitted at isolation wards or hospitals at Mullana in Ambala district, three of the remaining patients will be admitted at Agroha (Hisar) and two in Rohtak, senior officials of the health department said.The 76 people were part of a group of over 160 Indians who had arrived at Amritsar in Punjab by a special chartered flight earlier this week.Earlier, state health minister Anil Vij said 22 of the 76 persons had been found positive. However, senior doctors in Panchkula said the reports of 21 people had so far been confirmed. Those found negative will be quarantined in their home districts.Also, 12 new cases were reported from Gurugram, 10 in Faridabad, seven in Panipat, three each in Sonepat, Jind and Hisar, two in Bhiwani and one each in Palwal, Karnal and Kurukshetra. The fresh infections in Gurugram and Faridabad are the contacts of already infected patients, doctors said.6 people found positive at rehab centreSeven new cases reported from Panipat include four inmates, aged between nine and 12 years, and two employees of a rehabilitation centre. Panipat civil surgeon Dr Sant Lal Verma said the employees include a 36-year-old sweeper and a 40-year-old supervisor at the centre located in Shiv Nagar. The seventh patient is a 25-year-old youth from Ganga Ram colony.Four fresh cases in KarnalFour more people, including three of a family, tested positive for Covid-19 in Karnal on Saturday, taking the district tally to 27 and 11 active patients. Deputy commissioner Nishant Yadav said the new patients include a 56-year-old man, his 54-year-old wife and 33-year-old son, residents of Chaman Garden in Karnal city. A 28-year-old man of Khera village under Indri sub-division is among the new cases. All patients have travel history to different places as the Chaman Garden family had returned from Delhi on May 15, while the fourth patient had recently returned from Noida. Woman found infected in K’shetraA 45-year-old woman from Ladwa of Kurukshetra district has tested positive for the virus. Dr Sukhbir Singh, chief medical officer, said the woman belongs to ward number 12 of Ladwa. He said her samples were taken on May 22 and she had returned from Delhi on May 20.Two test positive in Bhiwani, cop in SonepatTwo fresh cases in Bhiwani include a 51-year-old Gurugram woman, who had visited her daughter’s house in Rewadi Khera village and a 27-year-old resident from Tigdana village, working with the Haryana police and posted at Gurugram. A sub-inspector, who hails from Sonepat and was working in Delhi has also tested positive. He has been sent to isolation ward at BPS.44 more patients dischargedMeanwhile, 44 more patients who were discharged on Saturday include 11 each from Faridabad and Sonepat, nine from Gurugram, five from Nuh, three from Jind, two each from Fatehabad and Rohtak and one from Jhajjar. With this, the recovery rate of the state has risen to 66.3 %.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-64-fresh-infections-haryana-tally-climbs-to-1-131/story-VJQhtcKoeisOIA90hfiB4L.html
23-05-2020||City||TMC revises protocol, will not seal entire building||After Mumbai, Thane Municipal Corporation has revised the protocol of sealing buildings if a resident is found to be Covid positive. On Friday, it issued directives that only the floor where the patient lives will be sealed. The directives came into effect four days after the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation gave a similar order.A civic official requesting anonymity said, “We used to seal the entire building or complex preventing people’s movement in the area. At times, we also seal an area of 500 metres around the building. But, this led to problems for most emergency service workers and our own employees faced a tough time moving in or out of the area.”On Friday, 197 new cases were reported, the highest one-day increase. With the increasing number of cases in the city, the containment zones have also increased to 182.“However, the other residents will have to strictly follow social distancing and go out only if necessary. Stringent measures will be in place in the slum areas where cases are more,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tmc-revises-protocol-will-not-seal-entire-building/story-AWbVTXbYVrnSMXt0YLq8jJ.html
23-05-2020||Lucknow||Nearly 21 lakh people have returned to UP, over 13.54 lakh of them in special trains: Govt||The Uttar Pradesh government on Saturday said over 13.54 lakh migrant labourers have returned to the state in 1,018 special trains since the services began earlier this month and monitoring teams are ensuring they strictly follow home quarantine.Additional Chief Secretary (Home and Information) Awanish Awasthi said overall nearly 21 lakh people have arrived in the state in trains, buses and other means.“On Saturday and Sunday, 178 trains are expected to come to the state,” he added.Authorities have collected the data on the returnees.“A paper slip will be pasted on their houses, with complete details. The nigrani samitis (monitoring committees) will keep a watch on them, and ensure they strictly follow home quarantine,” Awasthi said.Awasthi said there are 52 stations in UP where special trains have stoppages.In Varanasi, two stations — Cantonment and Madhuadih — have been identified for special trains.“For the first time, a (special) train is coming to Pilibhit. UP government is bringing migrant labourers and workers free of cost. No one has to pay any charge for any train coming to UP,” he said.The senior official also said challans have been issued against 5,298 persons for not wearing masks, while over 18,200 two-wheeler owners have been fined after the vehicles were caught with more than one rider.“Of the 5,298 persons against whom challans have been issued, 1,461 are from Lucknow and 1,306 from Varanasi. The cost of a mask is between Rs 5 and Rs 10; instead of paying fine, people should purchase mask,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/nearly-21-lakh-people-have-returned-to-up-over-13-54-lakh-of-them-in-special-trains-govt/story-fELPudJgkq9Pp0McxwHVhK.html
23-05-2020||City||Kalyan’s Covid cases touch 727||A total of 30 new cases of Covid-19 were reported in Kalyan-Dombivli on Saturday, taking the total number of cases to 727. After recording 57 cases on Friday, the number of positive cases saw a decrease on Saturday. The civic body has recorded 18 deaths.Among the new cases are of a nine-year-old boy and two senior citizens. Till now, the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has conducted free swab tests of 1,495 patients. Of the 1,495 patients, 320 are in Tata Amantra quarantine centre and 1,175 patients are in Shastrinagar civic hospital.“We are testing patients who are orange and yellow card holders and have been admitted to Shastrinagar civic hospital and Tata Amantra quarantine centre,” said a KDMC official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kalyan-s-covid-cases-touch-727/story-mv4ZkK9xMcjNX3QJt3QMfP.html
23-05-2020||City||Coronavirus lockdown: Postal department’s Punjab circle distributes food to 2.85 lakh people, highest in nation||Under its initiative ‘Food on Wheels’, the post offices in Punjab circle have distributed food to around 2.85 lakh people in the state and Chandigarh, highest in the country since the coronavirus lockdown was imposed by the government of India on March 25.In total, there are 23 postal circles in India and so far, around six lakh people have been given cooked meals, dry ration, fruits and juice packets across the nation by the department of posts.Chief postmaster general of Punjab and Chandigarh, Vinay Kumar Tiwary, said that Punjab circle has been a pioneer in terms of food distribution among the needy during the lockdown. “Following directions from Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, who asked the post offices to serve humanity to their fullest capacity during the pandemic, staff in all our post office branches of Punjab, including Chandigarh, Ludhiana, Amritsar, Jalandhar and Gurdaspur, have been working actively to distribute food to the needy.‘NO FUNDS ALLOTTED’Chief postmaster general Tiwary said no funds were allotted for the purpose, adding that the help was extended to the deprived with the collaboration of local gurdwaras, temples, non-governmental organisations (NGOs), private agencies and postal staff’s voluntary contribution.“This number represents the humanity that dominates people of this region, who have come forward to help us in providing ‘Food on Wheels’ to those in need in this difficult time. We tied up with gurdwaras and temples that remained shut for the public and distributed cooked food with their help. Similarly, many NGOs contacted us through the food and civil supply department. It has been due to integrated efforts of many institutions and individuals,” he said.The post official also said that out of all the places in Punjab, Mauli Jagran in Chandigarh has recorded the highest distribution of food items with 3,000 food packets given to the needy in a day.VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS BEING MADE BY POSTAL STAFF Ludhiana’s Rajguru Nagar branch sub-postmaster Sarita Madan said Sunet village and Guru Amardas Nagar that fall under her jurisdiction largely cover labourers that have been gravely affected by the curfew that was recently lifted in the state.“The areas with the majority occupancy of labourers were largely affected due to the lockdown. Some didn’t even have money to purchase milk for their children,” she said. The post official also said, “All our staff are making contributions to purchase the packets of pulses, rice, wheat flour, milk, onions, potatoes and other food items that are being distributed among people. I receive the daily updates from our branch’s postmen about the condition of people in their allotted areas and we are extending help to the needy as per our capacity.”The department of posts has been acknowledged as an essential service amid the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-lockdown-postal-department-s-punjab-circle-distributes-food-to-2-85-lakh-people-highest-in-nation/story-sUTa2OdSHKnmowSDyhVtTL.html
23-05-2020||City||Sodomy victim held for violating home quarantine orders, venturing out without mask||A sodomy victim was arrested in Ludhiana for breaking home quarantine and roaming in his locality without wearing a mask on Friday. The victim had been asked to quarantine himself after the accused tested positive for Covid-19 after his arrest last week.Haibowal station house officer inspector Mohan Lal said that after they got the accused’s results on May 18, they had taken the victim, a mobile phone dealer, to the quarantine centre at Meritorious School. However, they decided against admitting him there and told him to stay in home quarantine until his tests are complete.On Friday, the police received a complaint that the man was roaming around the streets without a mask. He has now been booked under Sections of 188 (orders duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Kumar Bagga said that as the man had come in contact with the accused, the health team was asked to collect his samples but he could not be contacted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sodomy-victim-held-for-violating-home-quarantine-orders-venturing-out-without-mask/story-jo85zdDY6LO2tOhzvRMsDP.html
23-05-2020||City||Prime accused in Ambala youth’s murder held||An accused involved in the murder of a 20-year-old youth was arrested in Yamunanagar on Saturday, police said. The accused was identified as Gurdeep, 20, a resident of Saranva village. “An axe used in the murder has also been recovered from his possession,” deputy superintendent of police Aashish Chaudhary said.As per the information, Ankush,20, a resident of Ambala’s Mullana area, was allegedly murdered by a group of people in Sadhaura area of the district on Wednesday. A case under Sections 148,149,302 of the IPC and SC/ST Act was registered against four people.Police spokesperson Chamkaur Singh said “Ankush’s father, Ramkaran, had filed a complaint with the police on May 20 that his son succumbed to his injuries that he had sustained during a fight. The first accused was arrested on Saturday and was produced in a court, which sent him to one-day police remand.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/prime-accused-in-ambala-youth-s-murder-held/story-1tafAQ7gEvxKrHYAkNXAqL.html
23-05-2020||City||Land acquired, international airport for Ludhiana inches closer to reality||The Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA) has taken the possession of 161.3-acre land in Aitiana village of Raikot tehsil for the construction of an international civil aviation terminal at the Indian Air Force station in Halwara, around 35km from the city. Confirming the same, deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal said in lieu of the acquired land, the farmers have been paid a compensation of ₹20.6 lakh per acre. Besides, each eligible family will also be paid ₹5.5 lakh as rehabilitation and resettlement amount, he said. GLADA additional chief administrator Bhupinder Singh was also present on the occasion.Agrawal said the Punjab government was making efforts to ensure that the airport becomes operational in the next two-and-a-half years. The first phase of the project will include development of a new international civil aviation terminal over 135.54 acres for full-fledged operations up to Code-4C type aircrafts.Agrawal said the project shall be implemented through a joint venture company (JVC) formed with the majority stake of 51% of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) and 49% stake of the Punjab government through GLADA.A long-pending demand of Ludhiana residents, the international airport is aimed at boosting economic development, generating employment opportunities and bringing in tourism in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/land-acquired-ludhiana-airport-inches-closer-to-reality/story-u5X5fZWnFc9rt9Dt8L4HwO.html
23-05-2020||City||Abhay Chautala threatens to launch ‘dharna’ over non-payment to wheat growers||Indian National Lok Dal leader Abhay Chautala on Saturday alleged that farmers have not been given the payment for the wheat crop after procurement. He threatened to launch a ‘dharna’ along with the farmers from June 2 if their dues were not paid by June 1.While addressing mediapersons here, Chautala said contrary to the government claims that farmers were being paid minimum support price (MSP) within 72 hours of procurement, there are a lot of farmers who had not been paid at all or paid partially since over three weeks. He threatened to launch a dharna if the farmers are not paid for every grain of wheat by June 1. Chautala said it is shocking to see that the government which had announced to set up procurement centres across the state, had failed to set up even a single procurement centre in the entire state. “Farmers in Ellenabad were informed telephonically by officials to bring their farm produce (gram) to the grain market but were sent back on plea that they had not received any government order in this context,” he added. He accused the state government of indulging in unfair means in delaying the payment to farmers with an aim to favour a particular private bank.When asked about the controversy pertaining to the liquor scam, Abhay who had demanded a probe by sitting judge of high court, alleged that the culprits had links with top functionaries of the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/abhay-chautala-threatens-to-launch-dharna-over-non-payment-to-wheat-growers/story-DwMx8mqxcH19aCiUs5WuuI.html
23-05-2020||City||Parents protest against school authorities in Ludhiana for increasing tuition fee||Over 250 parents gathered outside Shamrock Christian Senior Secondary School, Hambran Road, on Saturday, to protest against collection of fee amid the Covid-19 lockdown.They alleged that the school had been asking to pay the tuition fee before May 30, which has been hiked by more than 8 to 10%. In the last five days, this is the fourth protest by different parent associations against fee-related issues in the city.The parents visited the school in the morning to meet the principal to request her to waive the enhanced charges from the tuition fee. When nobody from the school authorities came out to address them, the parents started protesting. Also, one of the parents fainted as the day temperature was 40°C.The protest continued for two hours and ended after police’s intervention, who assured them that they can meet the principal on Monday and also submit a memorandum.Neeraj Rattan, a parent, said, “My children have been studying in this school since many years, but in this time of financial crisis, we are unable to pay the enhanced tuition fee. The school authorities should cooperate with us. We have requested the state government to waive the admission fee charges.”Another parent, Pawan Chawla, said, “We are ready to pay the tuition fee, but the authorities have increased it. At such a time, they should not impose hefty fee charges. The school has also included computer fee and smart class charges in the tuition fee, which is not justified as the school has been closed for two months and these facilities have not been utilised.”School principal P Singh said, “We informed the parents to pay the tuition fee from April to June, but we did not increase it for this academic session. We will never think of enhancing the tuition fee in the times of crisis and wrong information has been circulated. We have to pay salaries to the teachers as they have been taking online classes regularly and the online assessment will start from June 1 for the students.”“I was not present in the school today and if any parent wants to meet me, can make an appointment. We cannot exempt the annual charges and parents have been informed to pay the same after the school reopens,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/parents-protest-against-school-authorities-in-ludhiana-for-increasing-tuition-fee/story-xn2cVpsvf1dJHMJRvlDlUK.html
23-05-2020||Pune||Containment zone area spreads from 9.91 to 10.46 sq kms in Pune||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) restructured the containment zones in the city according to the positive, active cases in these areas on May 19.The city had 69 containment zones till May 3 which was brought down to 65 as of May 18. Though the containment zones have been reduced, the combined area of these zones has increased from 9.91 square kilometres to 10.46 sq kms, said officials.After the May 18 revision, 24 containment zones were removed while 20 were added. Most of the containment zones are in Bhavani peth and Dhole Patil road wards.As per the Covid-19 dashboard report, the number of cases within the containment zones has gone down from 201 cases inside containment zones and 57 outside the containment zones as of May 17, to 104 cases inside the new containment zones to 51 outside the zones as on May 20.New treatment strategy for Pune patientsThe task force created by the civic body for Pune has recommended Tocilizumab (IL6 inhibitor) usage, which is a monoclonal antibody which has come up as an alternative medicine for Covid-19. It has suggested five-six mg per kg (400 mg max) dosage to treat Covid-19 patient and prevent them from becoming critical. The drug is prescribed once a day (2 dosage keeping interval of 24 hours) and can be used for first 25 patients and results will be analysed to decide further use in patients. In view of this, the PMC has given a work order of value of Rs 15 lakh for 50 injections and 25 patients will be treated with two injections per patient.The civic body is also trying Hydroxychloroquine, commonly used for malaria, for those quarantined, suspected Covid-19 patients. Individual prophelexis of HCQ is given to institutional quarantined suspects. Right now there are 1,600+ suspects, out of whom 50% are with non-comorbid and have been given HCQ on top priority, remaining are given HCQ under the doctor’s supervision until further investigation like ECG, blood test and sugar test to determine its efficiency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/containment-zone-area-spreads-from-9-91-to-10-46-sq-kms-in-pune/story-mzWC8hPs30frMJ66r836wO.html
23-05-2020||Mumbai||Bizman orders 1 lakh N95 masks online, gets duped of ₹2.93 lakh||A 35-year-old businessman was duped of ₹2.93 lakh by cyber fraudsters after he placed an order for around 1 lakh N95 masks online. The Borivli resident had placed the orders after seeing an advertisement on a popular social media platform.According to MHB Colony police in Borivli, the incident took place on May 9, but the complainant approached the police on May 21, following which a first information report (FIIR) was filed for cheating and impersonation.According to the businessman’s complaint, he came across the advertisement on social media and called on the number mentioned on it. The cyber fraudster informed the businessman that he owned a mask-manufacturing company in Raigad.The complainant then said he wanted to buy around 2 lakh N95 masks, but the fraudster said he could only make a provision of around 1 lakh masks. He also told the complainant that if the latter did not place the order immediately, he would sell them to another buyer. The complainant then placed an order for 1 lakh masks worth ₹1.65 crore, but agreed to pay the money only in person. The fraudster told the complainant that owing to the lockdown it would not be possible for him to meet the latter and promised to deliver the masks on truck to Borivli. The fraudster also sent him a video of a truck containing the masks, as evidence. The complainant then paid him ₹2.93 lakh as advance and said he would make the rest of the payment in instalments till May 12.Despite receiving the advance, the fraudster kept delaying the order. The fraudster then cancelled the deal and promised to return the complainant’s advance payment.When the complainant did not receive the money after some days, he threatened to lodge a police complaint. The fraudster did not return the payment despite the complainant’s threat, following which the latter filed a complaint.Earlier this month, another city businessman was duped of ₹12.29 lakh when he tried to buy N95 masks and protective personal equipment (PPE) kits online.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bizman-orders-1-lakh-n95-masks-online-gets-duped-of-2-93-lakh/story-cwjFy1raYuT9875XNxVIsL.html
23-05-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand’s Ranchi in orange zone now||Jharkhand’s Ranchi is now included in the orange zone in view of the low incidence of Covid-19 cases being reported in the past few days, said officials on Friday.“Ranchi has come in the orange zone from the red zone from today. Doubling of cases in Ranchi once climbed to 3.5 days. Now doubling rate is 5.7 days,” said Ranchi DC Rai Mahimapat Ray and SSP Anish Gupta in a joint press conference.They said the district administration is making all efforts to deal with the problems of migrants coming in the state.“No relaxation will be there in the lockdown for Eid,” They appealed people to observe Eid following lockdown norms and perform Namaz inside houses while maintaining social distancing. The total number of confirmed COVID-19 cases climbed to 323 in the state on Friday, according to Health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-s-ranchi-in-orange-zone-now/story-cwLzDdsDwqEeejSLe8DfuM.html
23-05-2020||City||Three shop owners booked for flouting lockdown rules||The Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has registered a case against three shops which flouted lockdown rules and opened on days they were supposed to be shut.The case has been registered under section 188 of IPC for disobedience to order duly promulgated by the public servant.Jamir Lengarekar, additional commissioner, PCMC said, “A case has been registered against three garment shops. The garment shops have permission to open on Thursdays but they were open on Friday as well.”PCMC has allowed standalone shops to open on specific days from 7am to 5pm.Stationery shops, general stores and construction material suppliers are supposed to open on Mondays and Fridays.Automobile shops, garages and service centres are open on Tuesdays and Saturdays. Electronic products and electrical repair shops will be open on Wednesdays and Sundays. Hosiery and readymade garment shops are open on Thursdays.Only five shops on a road in every one km area will be open on specific day.“Shop owners have been asked to stick to the rules or face action,” said the additional commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-shop-owners-booked-for-flouting-lockdown-rules/story-sA3qZjXdK2FQ3hUag5bUtK.html
23-05-2020||City||Post lockdown relaxations, J&K governor inspects rly station, Jammu city||Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor Girish Chandra Murmu on Saturday visited the Jammy railway station and inspected prominent places and markets across Jammu to get a first-hand experience of the situation on ground post relaxation of lockdown restrictions.At the railway station, Murmu took stock of the facilities being provided to the stranded people of J&K ,who were being brought back through special trains from different states. Jammu deputy commissioner Sushma Chauhan briefed the governor about the process of sampling of the returnees and various procedures involved in the screening. She informed Murmu that nodal officers have been appointed at different levels to ensure efficient working and said that around 9000 returnees in 10 special trains had been received as on date at Jammu railway station.Governor Murmu observed that there should be strict implementation of all SoPs across the board and stressed on ensuring that protocols be followed during the entire process of de-boarding, sampling, and further transit of the returnees to their respective districts. He emphasised on ensuring availability of sanitisers and masks for the passengers on the railway station and sanitising the whole premises. The governor underlined the importance of proper disposal of PPE kits and also directed for ensuring availability of provision of sufficient quantity of food for the returnees, besides provision of fans in the holding area.He also enquired about the sample collection process in the district and passed on-spot directions to officers to ensure timely sampling of people. “Focus on coordination across all levels, so that the whole process goes on smoothly’, he added.Later, he visited prominent places and markets across the Jammu city to get a first-hand appraisal of the situation .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/post-lockdown-relaxations-j-k-governor-inspects-rly-station-jammu-city/story-RBdNxdIVLeQDt0UlsogXrK.html
23-05-2020||City||No summer vacations in Punjab and Haryana high court||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Saturday announced the cancellation of summer vacations in the high court and trial courts scheduled for June in both the states and Chandigarh.This year, vacations were scheduled between June 1 and June 26 in the high court and June 1 and June 30 in subordinate courts. The decision has been taken in view of courts taking up only ‘urgent cases’ since March due to Covid-19.The high court is functioning in a restricted manner since March 16 and the trial courts are also taking up urgent cases only. Pending cases are being adjourned and only those are being taken up, where an application is filed citing some urgency. A dozen odd benches in the high court are taking up ‘urgent matters’ through video conferencing. Against daily listing of nearly 2,500-3,000 cases on any given day, the HC is hearing 200 odd cases these days. “… Court will function with the continuation of present arrangement of filing, listing and hearing of the cases through video conferencing,” an official said. Meanwhile Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association (PHHCBA) welcomed the decision. “The high court should do away with prior mentioning of cases before listing of fresh cases,” bar secretary, Rohit Sud said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-summer-vacations-in-punjab-and-haryana-high-court/story-VZUX960oyhS6n1WhWTUCOK.html
23-05-2020||Kolkata||Sharp rise in Kolkata vegetable prices as supplies dwindle post Cyclone Amphan||Vegetable prices have shot up in Kolkata and its adjoining areas as supplies took a hit in West Bengal, which was battered by cyclone ‘Amphan’ earlier this week.Prices of most vegetables have risen by 20-30 per cent over the last two days, traders said.Road communication in several parts of the metropolis has been severely impacted as thousands of trees and electric poles lay scattered on the streets.West Bengal Vendors Association president Kamal Dey said on an average, 300 vehicles loaded with vegetables arrive in the city everyday, but the number has halved since Thursday.“The main supply hubs for the city are Basirhat, Bangaon, South 24 Parganas and all these places suffered huge damages due to the cyclone. At many places, fields are filled with knee-deep water,” he said.Unless the water recedes by Sunday, majority of the produce will perish and cause massive shortage of supply, Dey said.Lakhs of people were rendered homeless as cyclone ‘Amphan’ cut a path of destruction through half-a-dozen districts of the state on Wednesday, flattening houses, uprooting thousands of trees and swamping low-lying areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/sharp-rise-in-kolkata-vegetable-prices-as-supplies-dwindle-post-cyclone-amphan/story-ppPrbl75CqQMZPVbvJlbRL.html
23-05-2020||Delhi||Fire breaks out at Covid-19 designated hospital opposite IIT Delhi||Fire broke out at the Cygnus Orthocare Hospital opposite IIT Delhi campus on Saturday. At least eight fire tenders were rushed to the spot. The fire at the Covid-19 designated hospital which started at around 5:45 pm has been doused. Eight patients inside the building were rescued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/fire-breaks-out-at-covid-19-designated-hospital-opposite-iit-delhi/story-MCoNc5A63540NlYqISPlhO.html
23-05-2020||Noida||UP’s Gautam Buddh Nagar reports 17 new Covid-19 cases in; total now 323||Seventeen more people, including three teenagers, tested positive for coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddh Nagar on Saturday, pushing the total number of cases in the district to 323, officials said.Also, seven people were discharged from hospitals after being cured, even as the number of active cases rose to 97, they said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageDistrict Surveillance Officer Sunil Dohare said 58 test results were obtained from Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS), 60 from National Institute of Biologicals (NIB) and 128 from Super Speciality Paediatric Hospital and Post Graduate Teaching Institute (SSPHPGTI) on Saturday.“All results from GIMS were negative. Thirteen from NIB were found positive, while three from SSPHPGTI were also found positive,” he said.One more person who tested positive was examined at a private laboratory, officials said.“On Saturday, 17 people were found positive for Covid-19 and total positive cases till date stand at 323. Seven patients were discharged on Saturday and a total 221 patients have recovered so far. There are 97 active cases now,” Dohare said in a statement.Gautam Buddh Nagar adjoining Delhi in western Uttar Pradesh has so far recorded five deaths, all of them male aged above 60 years, according to officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/up-s-gautam-buddh-nagar-reports-17-new-covid-19-cases-in-total-now-323/story-8CwXSSJf3OJDYVjrdYUK6M.html
23-05-2020||City||TMC school teachers to get a break from survey work||Around 500 private school teachers in Thane will conduct door-to-door health survey from Monday. The civic school teachers had been conducting the health survey for the past month and half. The Thane Municipal Corporation’s education department wants to give them a break.“The TMC school teachers needed a break from the survey work. Hence, we decided to give them 20 days off. Private school teachers will take over. Based on the situation after 20 days, we will take a call whether to continue with private teachers or get civic school teachers back,” said Rajesh Kankal, education officer, TMC.Around 400 civic school teachers were part of the healthy survey work.“For almost a month, we have been visiting containment zones and enquiring about symptoms and tell people precautionary methods. We are exhausted going from place to place,” said Aditi Sondur, TMC school teacher.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tmc-school-teachers-to-get-a-break-from-survey-work/story-S9yv4Q20bmn3pwo6UL5EDL.html
23-05-2020||Bhopal||MP’s Covid-19 cases double in a fortnight as cases continue to spike||Covid-19 cases in Madhya Pradesh doubled in the past fortnight with total cases now over 6,100 with almost entire state affected from the pandemic, the state government data shows.The number of cases rose by 3,000 in the last fortnight after the state took 38 days to get first 3,000 cases when the spread was limited to 24 of the 52 districts, the state government’s data shows, hinting that how fast the infection has spread in the state even though the numbers are much less than neighbouring Maharashtra and Gujarat. The data also showed that hourly addition of Covid-19 patients has also increased. Since May 7, eight new patients were reported every hour which in the past one week increased to 10 patients per hour. As many as 49 districts out of the total are now Covid-19 districts covering 96.14% of the total population (State’s total population is 7.26 crore as per 2011 census), the data shows.Unlike many other states, the migrant labourers contribution to total Covid-19 cases in Madhya Pradesh is just 4.86%, showing the infection has spread fast locally.In Bihar, migrant workers accounted for 57% of the cases while in Odisha it was 62%. According to the Madhya Pradesh health department, about 300 labourers have tested positive accounting for only 4.86% of the total 6,170 patients registered till Friday evening. Around 5 lakh workers have returned to the state so far.Among the six states having highest number of Covid-19 cases, MP’s death rate at 4.40% with 272 deaths, is only next to Gujarat which has 6.04% death rate and 1.5 times more than the national average death rate at 2.97%.The saving grace was that the recovery rate of patients in MP is more than 45% and death rate has come down to 4.4% from about 6% a month ago. However, Covid-19 patients were being found in new localities even in hotspots areas. In Bhopal, Ujjain, Indore, the major Covid-19 hotspots, fresh cases are being reported from new localities. To aggravate the situation, the remote districts like Khandwa, Khargone, Burhanpur and Dhar have become major hotspots. Public health expert, Amulya Nidhi said the testing rate in the state was too small. “In the last two weeks the infection spread to about a dozen new districts. Madhya Pradesh is lagging far behind the testing capacity. MP has just 20 testing labs, whereas other states which have a comparable population of MP, such as Gujarat and Tamil Nadu have increased the number of labs up to 37 and 67 labs respectively. The number of tests is also significantly low in comparison to Maharashtra, Gujarat and Rajasthan, all neighbouring states.”Another public health expert, Sachin Jain, said, “The government was more focussed on political gains by talking of Jamaats and certain localities being epicentre of the disease and due to this entire state has had to pay the price. Even if the government feels that the virus originated and spread in certain localities it should have had an effective communication with civil society members for counselling, communicating with and convincing people in these localities to come forward to get themselves examined.”A government official who did not want to be named, conceded that the government was struggling with a shortage of testing kits.“There were suggestions for massive survey, screening, collection of samples and testing in Bhopal, Indore and Ujjain in particular but administration overlooked the advice as the government was struggling to have adequate number of testing kits. The health minister requested the Centre at least twice to send more kits. Also, the community penetration of the administration in Bhopal, Indore, Ujjain, Burhanpur, Khandwa and Khargone etc has hardly been up to mark.”He said, “How the government was cut off from the situation was reflected in its decision to notify BMHRC,Bhopal, the hospital meant for Bhopal Gas Tragedy victims, as a dedicated Covid hospital. Most of the tragedy victims hospitalised were shifted to other hospitals. The order was cancelled only when several gas tragedy victims died of Covid-19 and gas tragedy survivors organisations moved the high court.”In Ujjain, the government relied on a private medical college despite the fact there were numerous complaints from the Covid-19 patients admitted over there. It was only after the death of a ruling party corporator that the government woke up to appoint an administrator at the medical college, said a health department official who was not willing to be named.Chief medical and health officer (CMHO) at Indore, Praveen Jadia said ensuring compliance of lockdown restrictions and social distancing in congested localities remains a big challenge.“The death rate has come down and recovery rate has increased significantly but until and unless social distancing is ensured in such localities it’s difficult to say how much time it will take to control the situation,” he said.Collector Bhopal, Tarun Kumar Pithode also echoed similar concerns about congested localities and said it forced the administration to take people of some localities and quarantine them.“Social distancing was practically not possible in such areas line Zinci, Jehangirabad, Aishbagh, Talaiya, Mangalwara etc where we find a Corona cloud, a term we have given not because of any spread in atmosphere but dense population. That’s why we have started taking people out of these localities. We have taken 2,000 people out of Jehangirabad alone. This strategy coupled with strict containment zone plan and legal provisions have helped us and the number of positive cases is decreasing significantly.”Additional chief secretary, health department, Mohd Suleman said, “The R naught factor (A mathematical factor to indicate gravity of infectious disease) was 1.95 around April 1. This has gone down to 1.27. This suggests that multiplication of the virus has reduced. The doubling rate has slowed down to 17 days from 12 days. Recovery rate has gone up to about 47%. The death rate which used to be around 6% has come down to 4.2%. Our testing has been ramped up hugely which is about 1500 per million population now. All these are good indicators. Our testing and treating capacity has improved considerably. Fever clinics will further help us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/mp-s-covid-19-cases-double-in-a-fortnight-as-cases-continue-to-spike/story-YqdvGyaLkLDa3ZlEHY0OjM.html
23-05-2020||Mumbai||TISS student union condemns administration for withholding results against non-payment of fees||The Student Union of the Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS), Mumbai, has condemned the administration for withholding the results of students who haven’t been able to pay their fees. Some students, beneficiaries of the Government of India- Post-Matric Scholarship (GoI-PMS), graduating in 2020, have not been able to pay their fees owing to a delay in the disbursement of scholarship funds. Amid the lockdown, following the Covid-19 outbreak, it has become furthermore difficult to gather funds.Meanwhile, the institute has withheld the results of students with overdue fees. “We the members of TISS Students’ Union 2019-20 unreservedly condemn the arbitrary and unethical action of TISS administration in withholding the access for viewing the semester-end result by students of the graduating batch of 2020 on account of dues not being cleared. Furthermore, this has been followed by a complete lack of transparency in additional charges being levied on the students,” said the union in a statement.The student body has sought a waiver of the fees for these students, most of whom are first-generation learners. The institute has, however, indicated that it is not in a position to waive-off fees as it was facing a fund crunch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/tiss-student-union-condemns-administration-for-withholding-results-against-non-payment-of-fees/story-ij7EaJBscuGytsVx7Tu6nM.html
23-05-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Pvt school students directed to pay regular monthly fee from June||The directorate of school education on Friday said that private schools should accept requests from parents to defer payment of fees for the months of April and May in view of the ongoing lockdown. The deferred payment for these two months, however, can be collected by the schools in three months, starting June, in equal instalments.In a letter, shared with district education officers, the department also said that tuition fees on a monthly basis should be collected from those parents who could afford to pay and those who had not formally written to schools for a deferment. Further, it added that all students of private schools were expected to pay the monthly tuition fee regularly from June onwards, as per the normal routine followed in previous years. The Haryana government had issued orders regarding the payment of fees on April 23, according to which only monthly tuition fee could collected during the lockdown. Payment of other funds — such as building fund, maintenance fund, entrance fee, computer fee, among other additional heads — had been deferred. The government had also prohibited private schools from hiking tuition fees or introducing hidden charges in the fee, and asked schools to collect tuition fee on a monthly basis.Though the department’s Friday order reiterated all the above points, it was mum on whether any action will be taken if schools prevented students from attending classes due to non-payment of fees. A number of parents have been seeking a concession or a waiver of fee for the duration of lockdown given the financial strain and due to job losses. Kailash Sharma, general secretary, Haryana Abhibhavak Ekta Manch, a parents’ body, said the government has been issuing directions without any sincerity. “This is the seventh such letter on the issue of fee payment that has been issued by the government. It is a joke on parents since schools have not been abiding by previous directions on fee payments anyway. We have filed two complaints with the Prime Minister’s office seeking an audit of the accounts of private schools,” said Sharma.District education officer Indu Boken couldn’t be reached for a comment||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-pvt-school-students-directed-to-pay-regular-monthly-fee-from-june/story-1lAQo3e9xPGIWJkuU0b3JI.html
23-05-2020||City||Protesting digitally: Farmers join Twitter to speak out, trend their issues on social media||Unable to hold protests during the lockdown, farmer unions have adopted a digital way to register their issues and press for their demands.Several such unions and groups have launched an online campaign to garner support of the farming community in raising their issues on the social media, especially on Twitter.“We are requesting the farmers to support #Karja_Mukti_Pura_Dam trend on twitter on June 6 so that maximum impact is achieved,” said Haryana BKU leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni.The decision was taken in accordance with several unions supporting as a tribute to the farmers killed in a firing in Mandsaur, Madhya Pradesh, he added.Farm leaders #Kisan_Karja_Mukti launched on May 5 remained a top trend on Twitter for two hours with over 1.65 lakh tweets from farmers in Haryana, Rajasthan, Punjab, UP, MP, Telangana. Now they have set a target of 3 lakh tweets for June 6 trend.Agriculture expert Devinder Sharma has termed the development a new beginning for farmers. “The support to the previous trends reflects that farmers now understand they have to highlight their issues on social media platforms as they can’t lodge protests on the streets right now.”“This is a weapon that will at least start a debate on farmers’ issues,” he added.Ramandeep Singh Mann, an agriculture activist from Delhi, said, “Now, farmers understand that if they tag the Twitter handles of PM and agriculture minister, their issues will reach the concerned ministers. Secondly, they feel that highlighting their issues on Twitter will also find resonance among fellow citizens.”“We will arrange workshops to bring maximum farmers on Twitter, as it is the best and cheapest way for them to raise their voice amid the lockdown,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/protesting-digitally-farmers-join-twitter-to-speak-out-trend-their-issues-on-social-media/story-9bfv2PKXu3TCckHGr9C7uN.html
23-05-2020||City||Man bludgeons co-worker to death in Mullanpur Dakha||A worker at a feed store in Mullanpur Dakha was arrested for bludgeoning his co-worker to death following a verbal spat on the intervening night of Friday and Saturday. The victim has been identified as Parkash Kumar, 44, who hailed from Uttar Pradesh and had been living in Ludhiana for the past 30 years.The accused, identified as Manga, 38, of Badwar village of Barnala, himself raised an alarm and alerted the store owner, assuming that if he did so, police would not suspect him.But as he kept changing his statements regarding the sequence of events, police grew suspicious. After repeated questioning, the accused confessed to killing Parkash with a wooden log after he allegedly hurled casteist slurs at him. Both were in an inebriated state at the time of the incident.Inspector Prem Singh, Mullanpur Dakha station house officer, said that Manga initially told the police that four motorcycle-borne miscreants had struck at the store in the wee hour of Saturday and started assaulting him with sticks and iron rods. “He said that to escape the attack, he fled from the spot and on returning, he saw Parkash lying in a pool of blood,” said the inspector.At around 5.30am, he informed the store owner Gurtej Kaur, who then informed the police. “But as Manga frequently kept changing his statements, we grew suspicious. He later confessed that both of them had consumed liquor and Prakash had allegedly verbally abused him following which he killed him in a fit of rage,” said the inspector. Police have recovered the murder weapon from the accused and booked him under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code.Gurtej Kaur revealed that Parkash had been working at the store for the past 30 years. He was 13 years old when he had come to the village in search of job.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-bludgeons-co-worker-to-death-in-mullanpur-dakha/story-Ly5Asu1mjZ4aCaDa5uZmcI.html
23-05-2020||Lucknow||Aarogya Setu app users cross 2 crore mark in Uttar Pradesh: Official||The Aarogya Setu app is being continuously used in Uttar Pradesh with the number of people having downloaded it till date touching two crore, an official said on Saturday. “As per the information from this App, 82 persons were infected while 45 have been discharged after treatment. As many as 1,079 are in home quarantine,” Principal Secretary (Medical and Health) Amit Mohan Prasad said. He added that so far, over 2 crore people have downloaded the App and 30,994 people have been called. The principal health secretary also said a large number of migrant workers are coming from other states with ASHA workers having surveyed 7.44 lakh of them so far. “Of these, 844 appeared to have corona symptoms and their samples have been taken for testing,” he said. “If no COVID-19 symptom is found in migrant workers, they are sent for a 21-day home quarantine. If found symptomatic, they are tested. On testing positive for infection, they are given treatment,” he said. Members of the village and colony monitoring committees are keeping a close watch on migrant workers, and ensuring that home quarantine is strictly adhered to, he said. “If we strictly adhere to home quarantine and the migrant workers discharge their social responsibilities, the infection would be controlled,” Prasad added. “A total of 8,112 samples were tested on Friday. We will soon touch the 10,000 mark for testing. As many as 836 pools were tested, of which 143 pools tested positive,” he said. The principal secretary also talked of domestic flights resuming from May 25. “The protocol for fliers will be issued by the Union Civil Aviation Ministry. The passengers will have to follow the protocol of the destination state,” said Prasad, adding those coming to UP will have to go for home quarantine. Anyone coming to UP for two days along with return ticket, he will be spared quarantine on production of return ticket, he said. Prasad also said emergency services have started in over 2,500 private hospitals in the state. NCC cadets and volunteers of NSS, Nehru Yuva Kendra and Yuvak Mangal Dal are being enlisted in COVID Volunteer Force, mandated to spread mass awareness about COVID.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/aarogya-setu-app-users-cross-2-crore-mark-in-uttar-pradesh-official/story-vMlGJGku8fx2zDOoVxQn4K.html
23-05-2020||Patna||Centre nudges Bihar to scale up Covid-19 testing as number of cases rise||The Centre has decided to provide additional testing equipment to Bihar in an effort to scale up their testing for coronavirus as the number of infections in the state grew by an average 13% every day in the last one week, officials said Saturday.An empowered group of officers (EG-2), created by the Central government to implement Covid-19 containment measures in the country, has recommended strengthening testing capability at the ICMR-Rajendra Memorial Research Institute of Medical Sciences (RMRIMS) in Patna.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIt cleared the decks for equipping the RMRIMS with a ‘Cobas 6800’, a high-throughput instrument for conducting real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT PCR), which is a confirmatory test for Covid-19. The instrument will be dispatched from ICMR-Bangalore in a couple of days.“The instrument will allow the RMRIMS to test 1,000 samples a day. It is likely to be dispatched in a couple of days from ICMR-Bangalore,” said CK Mishra, secretary, ministry of environment, forest and climate change, also the head of the Centre’s EG-2 on Covid-19. This group looks after medical aspects like testing, hospital preparedness and critical care. The Central government has created 11 empowered groups of officers for Covid-19 management.“We have also sent 22 TrueNat machines to Bihar, while also facilitating ICMR’s approval to a private testing lab in Patna for conducting RT PCR tests. With these, Bihar will be able to selectively test little more samples,” said Mishra.He said the high positivity of cases to samples tested in Bihar was little worrying. Bihar’s positivity of cases was around 12% as compared to the national average of 5%. However, with increased testing and better contact tracing, the state can do well to contain the spread of the virus, Mishra added.“In the last one week, (May 15-May 21), the number of new infections has grown by an average 13% every day,” said Bihar’s principal secretary, health, Uday Singh Kumawat.Bihar’s case doubling period was eight days (as on May 19) against the national average of 13.28 days. It was testing 466 out of every 1 million people, as of May 21.Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar has already asked his officers to ramp testing from an average 2,000 to 10,000 per day. The state had tested a total of 2,920 samples on Thursday after eight health facilities in districts were recently equipped with TrueNat and CB-NAAT machines.Seventeen out of every 1 million people have now tested positive for the virus in the state, with the migrants accounting for almost 59% of the state’s total Covid-19 cases, which was 2,263 on Saturday afternoon. Eleven people infected by the virus have died so far.As of now, the RMRIMS has a capacity to test 800 to 1,000 samples a day.“Once we get the Cobas 6800 instrument, we will be able to test 1,800 samples in a day,” said its director, Pradeep Das.“The instrument requires negative-pressure room (Airborne Infection Isolation Rooms, which help maintain clean conditions). We are talking to different air-conditioning firms and it may take us a week or so to have the system in place,” said Das.Meanwhile, the ICMR has given its nod to the Sen Diagnostics Pvt Ltd in Patna to conduct RT PCR tests. This is in addition to the Dr Lal Path Labs in Patna and the Path Kind Diagnostics Pvt Ltd in Patna and Muzaffarpur.“We are arranging to have the system functional soon after creating a separate kiosk for collection of swab samples. We will conduct the confirmatory test for Rs 3,000,” said Dr Sandeep Sen, director of the Sen Disgnostics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/centre-nudges-bihar-to-scale-up-covid-19-testing-as-number-of-cases-rise/story-G3YXQBe40eVQWMFcJpkB4K.html
23-05-2020||City||Adequate arrangements for marketing of fruits, vegetables will be made: CM||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Saturday said that proper arrangements for packing and marketing of fruits and vegetables would be made during the upcoming season and the state government would ensure that farmers and horticulturists do not face any inconvenience.He said this when a delegation of farmers and horticulturists from Shimla led by education minister Suresh Bhardwaj met him in Shimla.The delegation urged the CM to make arrangements and availability of packaging material for smooth marketing of vegetables and fruits and for bringing labourers from Nepal and other states of the country, besides making arrangements for cold storage stores for fruits and vegetables.They said proper medical checkups of fruits and vegetable buyers coming from other states should be ensured and also urged for arrangements for the control of labour charges and packing material. The delegation thanked CM for providing packing material for vegetable and stone fruits and transportation facilities. They also thanked the state government for well-planned marketing of their produce through the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) and other agencies. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/adequate-arrangements-for-marketing-of-fruits-vegetables-will-be-made-cm/story-vwTc5u7n19dyK3vbT2VhwI.html
23-05-2020||Mumbai||60% Olive Ridley turtle hatchlings in Maharashtra did not survive in 2019-20||Only two-fifths of all Olive Ridley turtle hatchlings made their way to the sea in Maharashtra between 2019 and 2020.According to data collated from different forest ranges by the state mangrove cell and Maharashtra Mangrove Foundation on World Turtle Day (May 23), 12,149 hatchlings survived from 27,254 eggs during 2019-20, accounting for a survival rate of 44.5%.In 2018-19, the survival rate was 54.4%, with 12,601 hatchlings that made it to sea from 23,131 eggs.Sporadic nesting of turtles is reported from an average of 33 sandy beaches across three districts in Konkan – Raigad, Ratnagiri, and Sindhudurg. While Sindhudurg witnessed a marked improvement in survival rate, from 47.3% in 2018-19 to 74.3% in 2019-20, Ratnagiri observed a decline to 34% in 2019-20 against 57.4% in 2018-19. Raigad also witnessed a drop from 65.4% to 52.2% over two years.“We must realise that this is preliminary information, and there might be several data gaps since this annual statistical collation from three districts is a relatively new process. We need to study the pattern for at least 10 years to come up with exact trends,” said Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forest (mangrove cell).Olive Ridley sea turtles are found in warm tropical currents of the Indian and Pacific oceans. A schedule I species under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, they travel thousands of kilometres in the ocean, with only the females returning to their original nesting sites within a minimum of two years, to lay eggs. After a 50 to 60-day incubation period, juvenile turtles break the eggshell, dig through the sand, and crawl to the sea. While females return to their place of birth, males never return to land.“Female turtles use geomagnetic imprinting [navigating to their geographic area of origin using magnetic field] and olfactory [relating to the sense of smell] cues to find their natal areas,” said Harshal Karve, marine biologist, Mangrove Foundation.Changes in weather patterns are the main reason for the fall in survival rate, said Mohan Upadhyay, livelihood assistant, Mangrove Foundation. “Firstly, nesting was delayed due to a series of extreme weather events including heavy rain coupled with cyclones in the Arabian Sea, last monsoon. Then the winter season was much warmer than previous years even for coastal districts. Following this, there was a spike in maximum temperatures this year from late February. When temperatures rise, it affects the incubation period, resulting in a lower survival rate,” said Upadhyay.Independent experts, however, said the survival rate does not depend completely on extreme weather factors. “Hatchling survival is affected by rising beach temperature and prolonged rainy days can damage some nests. But proper management and protection for natural nests can address these issues. However, even a 44% survival rate for natural in-situ nests is not bad. Focused conservation can help improve this,” said Basudev Tripathi, senior scientist, Zoological Survey of India and member of International Union for Conservation of Nature. Meanwhile, the Mangrove Foundation has commissioned a research study to assess the incubation temperature of nests along the Maharashtra coast. The project is being undertaken by a PhD scholar from the Wildlife Institute of India, Dehradun. “Atmospheric temperature plays a major role in developing and determining the sex of baby turtles. Temperature data loggers have been deployed at various turtle nesting sites in Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg, and the results will help us understand the nesting ecology,” said Karve.A similar study undertaken by the Mangrove Foundation – comparing nesting data from 2002 to 2006 and 2014 to 2019 – has shown that the peak nesting period had shifted from winter months (December) to early summer months (February-March). “Many nests which are now being laid along the Maharashtra coast during the February-March period hatch out in the summer months of April-May when the ambient and sand temperatures tend to be on the higher side [above 32 degrees Celsius], which may lead most of the turtle hatchling to be females. Also, higher nest temperature data suggests a lower survival rate for hatchlings,” said Tiwari. “We are therefore developing solutions to ensure that the hatchlings are protected from higher temperatures through the use of sheds, regular monitoring, and litter-free turtle nesting habitats.”Using some of the results, this year green sheds were installed to cover nesting sites from direct sunlight and high temperatures. “However, the Covid-19 lockdown made material transport difficult,” said Upadhyay.The state forest department, with local NGO Sahayadri Nisarg Mitra, has been educating local communities on sea turtle conservation. “From locating nesting sites, excavation, relocation of eggs, fencing nets, and preventing poaching and flooding, around two persons per nesting site have been trained by us. Now, using a format provided by us, the volunteers have begun collating all information about the entire process from nesting to hatching,” said Karve.To further boost turtle conservation, earlier this month the forest department introduced an honourarium of ₹15.63 lakh to locals in Ratnagiri, while the Sindhudurg district administration provided ₹6lakh to ₹8 lakh annually under its conservation management plan. The Union environment ministry is also in the process of finalising the National Marine Turtle Conservation Policy soon, said officials. “It is in the final stages. State-specific models like Odisha and Maharashtra will help achieve a long-term conservation protocol that can be replicated across other states,” said a senior ministry official.15 CASES OF MARINE ANIMAL STRANDING INCIDENTS ALONG MUMBAI COAST IN 2019On World Turtle Day, the state mangrove cell released data on marine mammal stranding incidents in 2019 along the Mumbai coast. While 10 Olive Ridley turtles and one Hawksbill turtle were stranded, two were treated and released back to the sea with the others succumbing to their injuries and infections. Cases of cetacean stranding included two baleen whales, an Indian Ocean humpback dolphin, and a striped dolphin (all mammals had washed ashore dead). The Maharashtra coastline has witnessed 143 cases of marine mammal deaths and stranding incidents between 2016 and 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/60-olive-ridley-turtle-hatchlings-in-maharashtra-did-not-survive-in-2019-20/story-GvAkA3VhVuig3zlW6PPvPL.html
23-05-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray, NCP chief meet to discuss Covid-19 situation||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and NCP president Sharad Pawar on Saturday held a review meeting on the Covid-19 situation in the state.This was the third meeting on the issue between the two leaders in the last eight days.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe NCP tweeted that its Maharashtra unit chief and the state water resources minister Jayant Patil, Shiv Sena Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut and chief secretary Ajoy Mehta too were present.The meeting took place after Raut met Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari earlier in the day, which a Raj Bhavan statement described as a “courtesy call”.The NCP chief has been insisting on resumption of economic activities in a phased manner and also restarting road transport within the state.Pawar has also been insisting on holding dialogue with industrialists and experts to increase imports, exports and inland shipping.As on Friday, Maharashtra has 44,582 Covid-19 cases, and 1,517 deaths from the infection, both figures the highest in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-ncp-chief-meet-to-discuss-covid-19-situation/story-GrEoiw4Ixxrbzx2GM3BhVP.html
23-05-2020||Bangalore||Bengaluru airport re-opens, provides ‘contactless’ experience||The Kempegowda International Airport in the city on Saturday said ‘contactless’ is to be the buzzword as it resumes domestic air travel from May 25 following the relaxing of COVID-19 induced lockdown. To protect passengers and staff from the risk of COVID-19 transmission, the Bangalore International Airport Limited (BIAL) that operates the airport has introduced a parking-to-boarding contactless journey. With greater emphasis on minimum touch and exposure between passengers and airport personnel, the airport aims to minimise all physical contact. The technology would continue to enable a seamless airport journey with greater emphasis on health and safety, a BIAL press release said. “We have introduced innovative contactless procedures to minimise exposure at the airport. These enhancements demonstrate our continued commitment to keep our passengers safe in this environment. We believe our new measures will boost confidence among passengers,” BIAL CEO Hari Marar said. BIAL said it has come up with process for check-in, security check, boarding, retail and dining, parking, on arrival, transport, also sanitation and other measures for contactless airport experience, and Arogya Setu is mandatory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/bengaluru-airport-re-opens-provides-contactless-experience/story-3U11RGr6iRcPEp1WmvzLHO.html
23-05-2020||City||Woman held for extortion in name of police in Kashmir’s Kulgam||HT Correspondent The Jammu and Kashmir Police have arrested a woman for extortion in the name of police in South Kashmir’s Kulgam district, officials said on Saturday.Mehbooba Banu of Kadder was arrested in connection with a complaint that she had allegedly extorted money from a person on the pretext of getting him released from the police.“One Nazir of Tungdunoo had been called by police for questioning in connection with a militancy related input. When nothing surfaced against him, he was allowed to proceed home without charges,” a police spokesperson said.However, Mehbooba along with her family members approached Nazir claiming that the police was going to detain him again and to prevent that he should pay her ₹1 lakh which she would give to the cops. Nazir and his family then somehow collected ₹80,000 and gave it to the accused.“Apprehending that Nazir’s family might approach the police, the woman sent two of her mask-sporting relatives to Nazir’s house in the night who threatened them not to tell the cops,” the police spokesperson said.However, the police received the extortion complaint and registered a case under Sections 420, 451, 500, 506, 109 and 34 of the IPC against the accused.“The woman who took the money from the poor family by dishonest and fraudulent means has been arrested. Investigation is on and more arrests shall follow,” the spokesperson added.The police have requested the public to report all cases of extortion.“We have a zero tolerance policy against extortion, especially when it is being done in the name of police. Any citizen can call up SP Kulgam directly on his phone number 84930-51292 to report such cases. Their identity shall be kept confidential,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-held-for-extortion-in-name-of-police-in-kashmir-s-kulgam/story-NXZLsD3NHpPqkwbfAwFcrL.html
23-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Police arrest six for former journalist Sanpreet Mangat’s murder||Six youngsters who were allegedly involved in robberies and snatchings in the area have been arrested for the murder of former journalist Sanpreet Singh Mangat.The accused are Jagdeep Singh, Bakhshish Singh, Harsh, and Jinny Kumar of Rahon, Harjinder Singh and Kamaljit Singh of Garh Padhana village. The accused are aged between 18 and 24 years.Police have reportedly found the murder weapon and seized two bikes used by the accused.The former scribe, who hails from Rahon, was found dead on the Rahon-Machiwara road in SBS Nagar on May 11. He has been stabbed to death the previous night.The accused were arrested by the SBS Nagar, crime investigation agency (CIA) led by inspector Dalbir Singh Sidhu. The case had been transferred to CIA for further investigation after being allegedly mishandled by the Rahon police. ACCUSED CONFESSSBS Nagar senior superintendent of police Alka Meena said that the accused had confessed during interrogation.“The accused had ridden to Rahon Road on two bikes late night on May 10. They were under the influence of alcohol and marijuana. After robbing a commuter, they stopped Mangat who was also riding a two-wheeler,” she said.The accused had a heated argument with Mangat and later murdered him by stabbing him multiple times with a sharp-edge weapon. Mangat’s vital organs were serrated in the attack.“The accused robbed him of ₹15,000 cash, a silver chain and purse,” said Meena.The accused maintained they had no personnel rivalry with the deceased.Two drug charges had been registered against the victim in the SBS Nagar,” Meena added. The police produced the accused in court on Saturday and they were sent to a four-day police remand. CASE MISHANDLED BY LOCAL SHO, DSPA senior police official, on condition of anonymity, said, “The case had been mishandled by the local SHO and DSP in the initial stages.”On May 11, police had registered a case under Section of 304A (death by negligence) and 279 (rash driving) of the Indian Penal Code at Rahon police station.The official said the SSP intervened on May 11 and sought case details and then upon receiving the postmortem report, police added Section 302 (murder) and 34 (common intention) of IPC on May 14.Meena has already suspended SHO Rahon police station inspector Subash Bath and initiated a departmental inquiry against him. She also issued a show-cause notice to the local DSP for negligence.AKALI DAL SOUGHT CBI PROBE, ALLEGED MINING MAFIA’S INVOLVEMENTShiromani Akali Dal leader and former member of parliament Prem Singh Chandumajra demanded that the central bureau of investigation probe the murder case, alleging that the mining mafia was behind the murder.SBS Nagar police officials say the involvement of the mafia had not been established.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-police-arrest-six-for-former-journalist-sanpreet-mangat-s-murder/story-okoMMizqJymD9xOWopOWZL.html
23-05-2020||Mumbai||Tata Projects augments hospital infra with 2,304 beds across India for Covid-19 patients||Engineering firm Tata Projects on Saturday said it is augmenting hospital infrastructure with 2,304 beds at multiple locations across India to treat Covid-19 patients.“As one of the fastest growing and most admired infrastructure companies in India, we felt the need to use our expertise in executing large and complex urban and industrial infrastructure projects towards augmenting, upgrading the nation’s hospital network,” Tata Projects Chief Strategy Officer Himanshu Chaturvedi said in a statement.Today, the company is proud that its teams of engineers, technicians and workers are working tirelessly towards strengthening the fight against Covid-19, he added.  “We believe that our support in the fight against Covid-19 will further help in once again accelerating India’s progress at the earliest,” Chaturvedi said. Recently, at Mumbai’s KEM Hospital, Tata Projects transformed two wards encompassing 65 beds and specialised medical equipment so that it can handle more serious coronavirus cases.  In addition, Tata Projects is also turning a large section of KEM Hospital’s orthopaedic centre into a 115-bed isolation centre.  It has also provided ventilators, pulse oximeters, oxygen flow meters, HME (breathing system) filters, facial masks and equipment like IV stands, suction machines, wheelchairs and dressing trolley.Tata Projects is also setting up a 72-bed isolation facility at HBT Trauma Center in Jogeshwari (Mumbai), which is expected to be completed this month.The company is assisting with project management for a 300-bed isolation facility at Seven Hills Hospital in Marol, Mumbai. Work on this project commenced in April and will be complete this month.Besides, Tata Projects is setting up facilities in Gonda, Uttar Pradesh, for a total of 124 beds which will include 10 ICU beds, 10 HDU beds and 104 isolation beds. Moreover, Uttar Pradesh’s GB Nagar will witness Tata Projects setting up facilities for 168 beds which will include 20 ICU beds, 10 HDU beds, 130 isolation beds and eight emergency beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/tata-projects-augments-hospital-infra-with-2-304-beds-across-india-for-covid-19-patients/story-8usiaIZhvW2SxIVCK3vKJN.html
23-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi Metro’s social distancing plan with ‘do not sit here’ stickers||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), which is yet to announce the dates for resumption of services, on Saturday provided a glimpse into its plans for the days ahead and what travel would be like in its coaches. The nationwide lockdown necessitated by the coronavirus outbreak is in place till May 31. This is the fourth phase of the lockdown, which was first implemented on March 25. The Metro services will remain shut till the end of this month.Through two pictures, the DMRC showed the marked difference in travel as and when the services resume. In one picture the people can be seen sitting next to each other, while in another “do not sit here” stickers show the social distancing plan in place. The stickers have been placed on every second seat, making sure there is enough space between two passengers.  Our plans 2020 pic.twitter.com/36X5qoJYq4Earlier this week, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal allowed auto-rickshaws, e-rickshaws and cycle rickshaws with one passenger in every vehicle to resume operations. “The coronavirus is here to stay. We need to live our lives with corona now. And the lockdown cannot be permanent. So far we have used the lockdown period to prepare ourselves — hospital beds, ventilators, PPE (personal protective equipment), testing kits, etc…Now is the time to revive the economy,” Kejriwal said in a digital press briefing.Kejriwal said taxis and cab operators, such as Ola and Uber, are allowed to function with each vehicle carrying a maximum of two passengers and a driver. The same rule will be applicable for private cars. Pillion-riding will not be allowed in case of two-wheelers, and carpooling/shared services will be prohibited.Buses will be allowed with a maximum of 20 passengers in each vehicle, and all people boarding them will be screened. “Drivers will be instructed to sanitize the seats after each passenger deboards,” Kejriwal had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-metro-s-social-distancing-plan-with-do-not-sit-here-stickers/story-KR4tU21oIkk3o6s6MXiGPP.html
23-05-2020||Mumbai||1,671 Covid-19 cases reported in Maharashtra police; toll at 18||At least 18 police personnel, including an officer, have died of Covid-19 in Maharashtra so far, an official said on Saturday.The Maharashtra police, which is ensuring a strict enforcement of the lockdown in the state, has been severely hit by the pandemic.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAs many as 1,671 personnel, including 174 officers and 1,497 other staffers, have contracted the deadly infection so far, the official said, adding that the Mumbai police had accounted for the highest number of infections and casualties in the department.At least 42 police officers and 499 constables, who had tested positive for Covid-19, have recovered from the infection so far, he added. Apart from the risk of infection, the police also had to face public ire while enforcing the lockdown in different parts of the state.As many as 246 incidents of assault on police were reported across the state, in which 85 police personnel and one Home Guard were injured, he said.The Maharashtra Police has registered over 1.1 lakh offences under section 188 (disobeying an order issued by a public servant) of the IPC and 22,753 persons were arrested in these cases, he said. The police also tracked down 680 quarantine violators in the state, excluding Mumbai, the official said. During the lockdown, the police registered 1,317 offences of illegal transport and seized 69,435 vehicles, he said, adding that fines to the tune of Rs 5.22 crore were collected for various offences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/1-671-covid-19-cases-reported-in-maharashtra-police-toll-at-18/story-2fK2VpGlztyeR5ybhQhZfJ.html
23-05-2020||City||UP woman dies after accidentally consuming spray oil||A woman from Uttar Pradesh died on Saturday after she accidentally consumed spray oil in Rampur Bushahr sub division in Shimla.The deceased has been identified as Anita, 25, wife of Raj Kumar, and resident of Lakhimpur district in UP. She had been living at Khalti village in Rampur Bushahr with her husband, who works as a watchman in an orchard in the village.The incident took place on Friday night when she drank spray oil, mistaking it for water. She was rushed to civil hospital, Sarahan, from where she was referred to Mahatma Gandhi Medical Services Complex, Khaneri, Rampur Bushahr, where she died during treatment.Rampur Bushahr deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Abhimaniyou Verma said postmortem of the deceased has been conducted and police are conducting the investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/up-woman-dies-after-accidentally-consuming-spray-oil/story-tTZiFXPmpMGPFDsJrg8xsJ.html
23-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chamba admn’s mascots Syanu, Namanu ensure adherence to Covid-19 guidelines||The Chamba administration has come up with a unique information education and communication (IEC) campaign amid the coronavirus pandemic, involving the mascots Syanu (the wise) and Namanu (the stubborn).“Syanu apprises the people of ‘to dos’ in the local dialect,” says Chamba deputy commissioner Vivek Bhatia.Namanu, names and shames violators on social media, he tells people what not to do, says Bhatia.“We have adopted these strategies to ensure people follow social distancing, hand hygiene and coughing etiquettes and do not break quarantine,” he said.The walls in market areas have been painted with portraits of the mascots to remind the public of Syanu and Namanu while they are out and about.SYANU INTEGRATED HELPLINE NUMBERThe administration has also launched the ‘Syanu integrated helpline number’ on WhatsApp, which will manage and maintain the border management system at barriers and integrate entries with a panchayat-level “panch-astra” home quarantine surveillance, the DC said.The app provides a one-stop solution to all grievances of people during the lockdown period.“The app’s workflow is simple and intuitive. Officials can connect with any person without having to connect with each and everyone,” he said.The common man can connect with any officer without knowing the officer’s contact details or number.WhatsApp was selected for the integrated helpline as it is the most commonly used medium.“The helpline aids both officials and the common man. Anyone can send their grievances on WhatsApp number 98166-98166. Our back-end system will respond with a solution as soon as possible,” he said.FOLLOW-UPS MADE EASY“Systematisation and follow-ups have been made simple as the grievances are redirected to the officer concerned. The helpline facilitates officers in case of a law and order problem, quarantine violation, supply of essentials (ration and medicine), emergency, home delivery and curfew-pass management,” the DC said.The app was launched on May 21 and the district authorities received 296 queries on the helpline and resolved them the same day. Another, IT-enabled initiative is the Chamba Home Delivery android app, which helps to get supplies to people’s doorsteps. Relax Chambyal CarelineFor those emotionally distressed, the Relax Chambyal Careline has been launched. Both help lines are also integrated with the Syanu Helpline, said Bhatia. The administration is also considering integrating barber and salon services on the platform.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chamba-admn-s-mascots-syanu-namanu-ensure-adherence-to-covid-19-guidelines/story-a3DJ517R0le6ye8JWAi1OL.html
23-05-2020||Pune||Pune’s Lohegaon airport gears up to restart operations||PUNE Pune’s Lohegaon international airport is geared to begin operations given that domestic flights are set to resume on May 25.The first flight to Pune airport will arrive from Bengaluru at 1:45 am on May 25.Kuldip Singh, airport director, said, “In addition to taking care of the passengers, the airport staff is also equipped with masks, sanitisers and gloves to ensure staff is safe. Also, we will ensure that social distancing is maintained between passengers to avoid the spread of this deadly virus.” A contactless screening of tickets is provided to ensure no contact between staff and passengers.Lohegaon airport, which is primarily a defence air terminal, has multiple informational posters on social distancing norms put up across its premises.According to guideline issued by the aviation ministry, passengers can only hire authorised taxis having exited from the terminal.Transit passengers will not be allowed to leave the transit area.Sanitation will be done at the arrival gate, aerobridges, coaches, jet ladders and ramps, and limited use of trolleys at the arrival areas will be allowed. Seating in the airport leaves at least one seat vacant between passengers to allow social distancing.Passengers have also been asked to minimise the usage of toilets and only one person will be allowed to accompany a child or senior citizen, in case required.No meals will be provided on the aircraft. No newspapers or magazines will be allowed on board either.Throughout the airport, circle barriers have been put up to help maintain distances between passengers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-s-lohegaon-airport-gears-up-to-restart-operations/story-MG213QTFPbwL9Icl9TKGCK.html
23-05-2020||Pune||Normalcy after weeks in red-zone-free areas in Pune||PUNE: For 24 micro-containment areas which have been expunged from the red-zone, life is slowly returning to normal. Citizens from these areas in Pune that were under strict restrictions earlier have taken a breath of respite. Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad revised the red zone list in the city after areas that were designated as red zone did not report any new cases.Bhaiya Jagtap, corporator who represents Vadgaonsheri area said that three areas from his ward were deleted from the red-zone list.“Earlier, there were many restrictions but people co-operated a lot which helped in containing Covid-19 in Ganeshnagar, Ramnagar areas, which is mainly known as Tempo Chowk,” Jagtap said.The following areas have been removed from red-zone, Parvati chawl survey number 52, Indiranagar slum near Neelayam cinema, Kondwa Budruk Naughting Hill Society, Holewasti in Undri, Ambamata temple area in Katraj, Shivatara building Kothrud, Chandragupta society in Kothrud, Ghorpadi, Balajinagar, Vikasnagar, Dhankawadi, Gulabnagar, Chaitnyanagar, Ganeshnagar, Ramnagar in Vadgaonsheri, Kalwadwasti in Lohegaon, Tadigutta at Yerwada, Phulengar at Alandi road, Jadhav Vasti at Kalas, Na ta Wadi at Shivajinagar area behind Congress bhavan, Vetalnagar in Hadapsar, and Handewadi Road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/normalcy-after-weeks-in-red-zone-free-areas-in-pune/story-iJGTBqTQYbALIG9kUtokwM.html
23-05-2020||Kolkata||West Bengal seeks Army’s help to restore essential services hit by Cyclone Amphan||The West Bengal government on Saturday sought support of the Indian Army, railways and port for restoring essential infrastructure and services in the cyclone-ravaged areas of the state.It also urged private entities to provide manpower and equipment for the purpose.In a series of tweets, the Home Department said that the state government has mobilised maximum strength in a unified command mode for immediate restoration of essential infrastructure and services.“Army support has been called for; NDRF and SDRF teams deployed; Rlys,Port & private sector too requested to supply teams and equipment (sic),” it tweeted.It said that drinking water and drainage infrastructure is getting restored fast and the Public Health Engineering Department has been asked to supply water pouches in areas where there is a crisis.“Generators being hired where necessary. More than a hundred teams from multiple departments and bodies working for cutting of fallen trees which is the key to restoration of power in localities,” the Home Department said.“WBSEDCL & CESC asked to deploy maximal manpower, even while lockdown significantly affects the deployment potential of the latter. Police on high alert,” the it added.The announcement came after protests in several parts of Kolkata and neighbouring districts over power and water crisis even three days after cyclone ‘Amphan’ hit the state.Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has urged people to have patience as the administration was working tirelessly to restore normalcy.Cyclone ‘Amphan’ has claimed 86 lives in the state and caused havoc in at least 14 districts, mainly in South 24 Parganas, Kolkata, North 24 Parganas and East Midnapore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/west-bengal-seeks-army-s-help-to-restore-essential-services-hit-by-cyclone-amphan/story-HsPMU8GPpilTskE9k6TfbL.html
23-05-2020||Kolkata||Cyclone Amphan: Protests across Kolkata as power, water crisis continues||Protests continued in several areas of Kolkata on Saturday as parts of the metropolis remained without water and power since cyclone Amphan ravaged the city.From Behala in the south to Belgharia in the north, armed with placards, people blocked roads with empty buckets and utensils.Protests were also reported from Sapuipara and Pallishree areas in Jadavpur, Garfa, besides Narkeldanga and Telangabagan.The protesters, many of whom were women, said they are under extreme hardship as there was no electricity and water for the past three days and repeated calls to power utilities CESC and WBSEDCL went unanswered.They said that due to the power cut they cannot pumpwater from the supply lines to the tanks of their respective houses, leading to a dire situation amid the rising mercury.While some of the protesters blamed the lack of preparedness on the part of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) despite repeated warnings of the severity of the cyclone by the weather office, many pointed fingers at the response of the power utilities to the crisis.“There has been no word from CESC on when the power will be restored. A tree, which fell on the transformer in our area, was not removed. The KMC staff said they don’t have the tools, while CESC said they can start work only after the tree is removed. We are living in inhuman conditions,” a middle-aged man from Jadavpur said.Many others said they cannot continue with work from home due to the lack of power and internet connectivity.“We are forced to buy mineral water cans at higher prices. Forget about working from home, we can’t even take baths and do other normal things,” said a woman, who is in her 20s, in the Garfa area.Police had to chase away protesters at Dopariya in Ghola area off Kalyani Expressway as the blockade continued for over an hour.Officials said locals refused to lift the blockade till power lines were restored in the area, following which police had to step in.With uprooted trees blocking several arterial roads, police faced a tough time to keep the city moving as the blockades continued.A police officer said protesters in some areas went back to their homes after persuasions and assurances.Officials of the two power utilities said with thousands of trees uprooted across the city, it was taking time for restoration of electricity.Power was being restored in phases, they said.Similar protests were held on Friday as well in several areas, which people said have turned into islands as connectivity -- power, water, internet, mobile network and cable television -- remained severed following the cyclone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/cyclone-amphan-protests-across-kolkata-as-power-water-crisis-continues/story-jAonAwzmkg8Qis77qIAGJK.html
23-05-2020||Pune||BJP, ruling alliance trade charges over Covid-19 management in Pune, Mumbai||PUNE The ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) and the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) traded charges against one another over the Covid-19 (coronavirus) situation in the state.While the city BJP leaders accused chief minister Uddhav Thackeray of failing to handle the situation well in the city and the state, the ruling party launched a campaign on social media.BJP MP Girish Bapat, mayor Murlidhar Mohol, city unit president Jagdish Mulik and party MLAs and office-bearers staged demonstrate in their respective areas by holding placards criticising the ruling party.Bapat said, “The central government was providing fullest assistance to the state, but the state government had failed to handle the situation in Mumbai and Pune.”Nationalist Congress Party’s (NCP) former mayor Prashant Jagtap said, “It is the BJP which is ruling in Pune and if the party was unhappy with the situation, it should blame itself.”He charged that Bapat was missing for the last two months, but has surfaced all of a sudden.Congress and NCP workers posted old clips of former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis who, during last year’s floods in Maharashtra, had appealed to opposition parties not to indulge in politics during the disaster.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/bjp-ruling-alliance-trade-charges-over-covid-19-management-in-pune-mumbai/story-KH3bYXmTOx9IgxrwYxYibO.html
23-05-2020||Chandigarh||As industries resume, most migrant workers refuse to board home-bound trains from Jalandhar||With industrial and construction work resuming in Jalanadhar, most migrant labourers, who had applied to return to their home states, are refusing to board the Shramik Express in favour of staying back and working.Around 2 lakh migrants had registered on the Jalandhar administration’s website, including 1 lakh people from Uttar Pradesh, 75,000 from Bihar, besides those from Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Visakhapatnam, to return home aboard the shramik special trains during the lockdown.So far, 80, 000 migrants have left the city in 65 trains. The state government has reportedly spent around Rs 4.37 crore on facilitating their return.Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said, “Around 50% migrants no longer want to return home, they want to stay back and work. Thus, we had to suspend a number of trains scheduled for UP.”“Of the 1 lakh migrants registered to return to UP, 48,000 have left the city. Now, only trains for Bihar are running from Jalandhar. The last train to Jharkhand will departure on Sunday,” he said.The DC said the Bihar administration had delayed initiation of the train service and so far only 15, 000 migrants had left. The administration expects around 20,000 migrant workers will board the train of the 75,000 who had registered online.EMPLOYERS OFFER INCENTIVES Sham, a worker from UP, who is staying at a quarantine facility at the Radha Saomi centre in Jalandhar, said that he and a relative decided not to return home as their former employer had offered them better wages.“Our families are worried for us, which is why we wanted to leave but our situation may worsen there. We may not get employment and be able to support our families should we return home,” said a worker, Vijay Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/as-industries-resume-most-migrant-workers-refuse-to-board-home-bound-trains-from-jalandhar/story-ECQKPKzTXzFkamLivzOtyN.html
23-05-2020||Pune||14 deaths, 291 fresh Covid-19 reported in Pune on May 22||The city, on Friday, reported 14 deaths and 291 fresh Covid-19 (coronavirus) cases. The death count is now 241, while the count of progressive positive cases has gone up to 4,398.In addition, a total of 189 patients were discharged on Friday after being completely cured of the virus taking the count of such discharged patients to 2,371. There are 168 critical patients in the city hospitals, according to Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) health department.Of the total 14 deaths, seven deaths were reported from Sassoon hospital. These include a 33-year-old male from Kondhwa, 70-year-old male from Parvati, 72-year-old from Ganj peth, a 63-year-old male from Parvati, 45-year-old female from Ghorpadi, 48-year-old from Nana peth and a 56-year-old male from Keshavnagar. Most of the patients had comorbid conditions like diabetes, hypertension and high blood pressure.Two deaths were reported each from Naidu hospital and Jehangir Hospital.Deaths at Naidu includes a 40-year-old male from new Nana peth and a 70-year-old female from Gultekdi. While from Jehangir an 80-year-old male from Bund Garden and a 90-year-old male from Yerawada.A 69-year-old female from Ruby Hall residing at Bhimapur Camp, a 93-year-old male from Bhavani peth were reported dead at Inlaks and Budrani and a 57-year-old female from Yerawada was declared dead at Sahyadri hospital.80 per cent beds at private hospitals in city to be reserved for govt useCharitable hospitals and nursing clinics in the city will have to reserve 80 per cent beds for government use. An order regarding the same was issued during a meeting chaired by the deputy director of health service, deputy charity commissioner of Pune, charitable hospital representative and civic officials on Friday.The order is based on the state government’s notification which is applicable across the state.The beds will be reserved for government usage and even the charges for treatments has been capped in these hospitals. The rates will be capped for both Covid-19 and non-Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/14-deaths-291-fresh-covid-19-reported-in-pune-on-may-22/story-6pG6P4MmM0mXo9oJ5o5yKL.html
23-05-2020||Pune||Why civic admin, police clueless about this buzzing morning market?||Breaking all rules of the lockdown and social distancing, a portion of Satara Road has been turning into a full-fledged wholesale market during the wee hours with hundreds of traders and retailers dealing in the sale of vegetables, fruits, food grains and other commodities.A large number of trucks coming from outside Pune are parked on both sides of the road and the local retailers and even citizens crowd around for their purchases. This market begins at 3 am and closes by dawn.When asked about this situation, Pune police commissioner K Venkatesham said, “We will look into this matter and anyone found breaking the rules of lockdown and not keeping the proper social distancing, action will be taken on them.”A visit on Friday morning on Satara road from the Laxminarayan theatre Chowk till Padmavati Chowk revealed massive crowds of people and vehicles carrying different types of goods. There were traffic jams at some of the chowks on the route and people were not following any kind of social distancing.Vegetable trader Sanjay Pachkade from Bhor who had bought green vegetables to sell in Pune said, “We regularly come to sell our vegetables here in Pune, as the Marketyard vegetable market is closed we have to do the trading on the road. I know there is some inconvenience and people are not taking any precautions, but we are helpless and want to sell our goods.”While a local retailer from Pune, Mahesh Rahate who had come to purchase potato and onions said, “We need to do business and we get vegetables here at cheap rates, but people are not following the lockdown rules which are dangerous. It can lead to the spread of disease, as the crowd is huge and there is no control over it.”Interestingly most of the containment zones declared by the Pune municipal corporation (PMC) like Parvati Darshan area, Gultekadi, some parts of Sahakarnagar and Dhankawadi are all nearby the Satara Road.None of the policemen or government officials are found taking actions on this illegal market going on in the dark. And from May 22 till May 31 Pune police have declared a curfew from 7pm to 7am in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/why-civic-admin-police-clueless-about-this-buzzing-morning-market/story-SNcCViYRF4dMqNnmQP9HMK.html
23-05-2020||Lucknow||21-year-old recovered Covid-19 patient donates plasma at UP’s KGMU||A 21-year-old man, who defeated COVID-19, has donated his plasma at the King George’s Medical University (KGMU) in Lucknow to treat severally-ill coronavirus patients, a hospital official said. A total of seven people have donated their plasma at the KGMU so far, the official said, adding that they have been kept in a plasma bank and can be used anytime for the next one year. “Yash Thakur, the recovered patient, donated his plasma on Friday night… His blood group is O positive which is quite rare,” the head of the KGMU blood transfusion medicine department Tulika Chandra said on Saturday. There are 17 coronavirus patients admitted in the KGMU including two women but none of them require plasma therapy. So, the KGMU administration has decided that serious patients admitted in hospitals in other districts, who require plasma therapy, should be brought here, Chandra said. Plasma therapy trials are currently underway at the KGMU. On April 27, a 58-year-old doctor from Orai in Jalaun district became the first recipient of plasma therapy and the donor was the woman doctor from Canada, the first COVID-19 patient admitted to KGMU. However, the patient passed away after suffering a heart attack on May 9. The KGMU had later said that two corona reports of the deceased were negative. Convalescent Plasma Therapy is an experimental procedure for treating COVID-19 patients. In this treatment, plasma, a blood component, from a cured patient is transfused to a critically ill coronavirus patient. The blood of a person who has recovered from COVID-19 develops antibodies to fight the virus. This therapy uses the antibodies from the blood of a cured patient to treat another critical patient. The Union health ministry, however, has advised against considering the therapy to be regular treatment for coronavirus, adding it should be used for research and trial purposes till there is a robust scientific evidence to support its efficacy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/21-year-old-recovered-covid-19-patient-donates-plasma-at-up-s-kgmu/story-htl4fO1k2ZyIzdmKWdWzPI.html
23-05-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 toll in Delhi rises to 231; 591 new cases||The novel coronavirus death toll in Delhi rose to 231 on Saturday, while the number of infections climbed to 12,910 with 591 new cases, authorities said. This is the fifth consecutive day when 500 or more new cases of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) were recorded in Delhi. It registered the highest spike on Friday with 660 new cases. In a bulletin issued on Saturday, the Health Department said the death toll due to the pandemic had risen to 231 and the total number of cases mounted to 12,910 after 591 more people tested positive. It, however, added the cumulative death figures referred to fatalities where the primary cause of death was found to be COVID-19, as per the report of the Death Audit Committee on the basis of case sheets received from various hospitals. On Friday, the number of cases were 12,319, including 208 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-toll-in-delhi-rises-to-231-591-new-cases/story-6rFLiRcATnggK9gplFYE1I.html
23-05-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Delhi records 591 cases and 23 deaths on Saturday||Delhi recorded 23 more deaths due to Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the death toll from viral infections in the city to 231, according to the daily official health bulletin. Of the total deaths, 158 were recorded in the past 12 days, after a three-member death audit committee started clearing the backlog of deaths that hadn’t been added to the cumulative report.An order issued by Delhi chief secretary Vijay Dev on May 10 had directed all designated Covid-19 hospitals to report deaths by 5pm each day to ensure timely reporting. This was done after a discrepancy was detected between cumulative data and deaths recorded at the hospitals.The additional deaths put the mortality rate due to Covid-19 in Delhi at almost 1.8%, up from 1% recorded on May 11, before the pending deaths were added to the bulletin. The mortality rate is still lower than the national average of almost 3%.On Saturday, Delhi recorded 591 new infections, taking the total to 12,910. The number of cases have been steadily increasingly in May, with the city recording more than 500 cases a day for the past five days.Even as Delhi is recording a high number of cases, the doubling rate – an indicator of the pace of spread of infections -- has gone up to almost 15 days. “We will be comfortable when the doubling rate goes up to 20 days,” Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain had earlier told a news briefing.Of the 6,412 people still with the infection, 1,886 with severe symptoms were admitted to designated Covid-19 hospitals. A total of 184 people are in intensive care units and 27 people are on ventilators.“The numbers would certainly go up now that the lockdown has been eased. There are so many asymptomatic cases, how will you stop the infections? The numbers would increase further as migrant workers reach their home towns, and after the two-week incubation,” said Shobha Broor, former head of the department of microbiology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). “However, what the numbers would look like, I do not know. None of the mathematical models have so far been able to predict the rise in cases accurately. Plus, we say 80% of cases are asymptomatic but we haven’t really done any serological studies to estimate the burden of the disease so far. We have to do antibody tests in selected cohorts, both in high burden and low burden areas, to find out the number of asymptomatic cases,” said Broor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-delhi-records-591-cases-and-23-deaths-on-saturday/story-zACmMkqj4cm3InU5TlLnlL.html
23-05-2020||Chandigarh||Vikramaditya Singh, hoteliers meet CM, demand financial package to cover losses due to COVID-19||Shimla (rural) legislator Vikramaditya Singh accompanied by a three-member delegation of the Himachal Pradesh’s hotel and tourism industry met chief minister Jai Ram Thakur and demanded a financial package as the industry had taken a setback during the global coronavirus pandemic. Singh said that for the last three months tourism units had not been able to generate any revenue and can no longer continue to pay fixed costs such as salaries, electricity and water charges and other taxes. He told the CM that￼ immediate relief was required to ensure the survival of the tourism industry in Himachal, which had already missed the peak season. Shimla hotel and restaurant association president Sanjay Sood said if relief was not provided immediately then hotels will be forced to close and several businesses indirectly associated with tourism will suffer irreparable loss leading to mass unemployment in the state.The delegation has demanded that a financial package be given to all hotels to cover business losses incurred during lockdown period by way of interest-free loans from the State Cooperative Bank and other state owned banks, waiver of interest on existing term loans and cash credit (CC) limits availed from different banks and extension of existing term loans and CC limit with no requirement of fresh and additional collaterals. No electricity and water charges should be taken from hotels, which have been closed since lockdown, the delegation demanded.“All fixed taxes, cess and license fees should be waived for the lockdown period. The government should pay minimum wage to all hotel employees during the lockdown,” they told the CM. Around 50,000 employees are working in tourism units of the private and government sector. “The total amount will be less than 50 crore per month, which should be paid by way of direct transfer to all employees of tourism units. Goods and services tax (GST) should be reduced to 9% for two years after the lockdown opens to encourage revival of tourism in HP. Hotels should be allowed to charge 9% as ‘Covid - 19 surcharge’ to bills of visiting customers to make up for drop in sale during the lockdown,” they said. ‘EXPEDITE DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS’ “Completion of tourism-linked infrastructure such as helipads, National highways (NH), state highways and link roads should be expedited,” they suggested. “A special budget should be announced for marketing Himachal as a safe travel destination to revive tourism,” the delegation said.The CM assured them that the government will soon announce all possible relief for the survival and revival of tourism industry in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/vikramaditya-singh-hoteliers-meet-cm-demand-financial-package-to-cover-losses-due-to-covid-19/story-a1C5RT4rPqZTfm6OMIdAWJ.html
23-05-2020||Kolkata||No incident of Sunderbans tigers straying into human habitat during cyclone Amphan: Official||The fencing that separates the Sunderbans Tiger Reserve from the human habitation was damaged in at least three places as cyclone Amphan has ravaged West Bengal but there was no incident of big cats straying into localities, a top forest department official said.The control rooms in Gosaba in South 24 Parganas district and Salt Lake near here have not received any incident of tigers or other wild animals straying into adjacent villages in the past three days, Chief Wildlife Warden Ravikant Sinha told PTI.“There was no report of animal casualty in the core forest area or nearby villages during the cyclone,” he said.Sinha said parts of the fencing were damaged in Kultali, Bidya, Sajnekhali areas and these affected points are being repaired on an urgent basis by field workers of the forest department.Lakhs of people were rendered homeless as the cyclone cut a path of destruction through half a dozen districts of West Bengal, including Kolkata, on Wednesday night, blowing away shanties, uprooting thousands of trees besides swamping low-lying areas.The death toll due to the natural calamity has risen to 85 in the state.Sinha said the Jharkhali camp, a gateway to the Sunderbans, a vast mangrove forest, was partially affected due to the cyclone, and the sluice gate, which regulates water flow to the camp from nearby creeks, has already been repaired.Asked about the image of the carcass of a tiger being circulated on social media, Sinha said, “It was not true. All the animals in different zoos and forests including the Sunderbans are safe.” According to the latest tiger-census, the number of big cats in the Sunderbans Reserve Forest has increased to 96 from the previous estimate of 88.“Post-Amphan, the number will remain the same,” he said.A fawn was born at the Jharkhali Deer Park on the day of storm and this is good news, he said.Meanwhile, Alipore Zoo director Asis Samanta said a total of 35 trees were uprooted in the zoo during the cyclone and the work are being carried out at war footing to clear the area.Amid the coronavirus outbreak, the zoo remains closed since March 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/no-incident-of-sunderbans-tigers-straying-into-human-habitat-during-cyclone-amphan-official/story-Zfciffxg1yzTd4BXJeTxFJ.html
23-05-2020||Kolkata||Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh stopped from visiting cyclone-affected areas||West Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh was on Saturday stopped by police from visiting the cyclone-ravaged areas of the South 24 Parganas district, triggering a war of words between the saffron party and the ruling TMC. Ghosh was on his way to Canning and Basanti, two of the many areas of the district affected by cyclone Amphan, to distribute relief materials. His car was stopped by the police at Dhalai bridge near Garia area of the district. “I don’t know why I have been stopped from visiting the cyclone-affected areas. The TMC leaders are visiting these places and distributing relief materials. The police is not stopping them. The rule only changes for the BJP leaders,” Ghosh said. His comment came after Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced an advance assistance of Rs 1,000 crore for the cyclone-hit state and an ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh to the families of each of those killed and Rs 50,000 for the injured. Ghosh threatened to organise a sit-in, if he was not allowed to go to the affected areas. “If the state government wants to pursue relief politics, they should get ready for a befitting reply from our workers,” he said. The BJP workers accompanying Ghosh had a mild scuffle with the police personnel, and they pushed the men in uniform to pave the way for the vehicle of the party’s state president. When contacted, the police declined to comment. Kolkata Mayor and state minister Firhad Hakim wondered why the state BJP was keen on doing politics over the distribution of relief materials. Ghosh had on Friday demanded that the assistance should be credited to the bank accounts of the people, affected by cyclone Amphan, to avoid siphoning of money.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bengal-bjp-president-dilip-ghosh-stopped-from-visiting-cyclone-affected-areas/story-JBNua3cV3zdO09ExI1ld0M.html
23-05-2020||Delhi||No-show at DU amid lockdown renders standalone street food vendors jobless||Admission season in Delhi University means brisk business for the many vendors that line up North Campus. These hole-in-the-wall establishments serve tea, coffee, snacks and other knick-knacks at pocket-friendly rates, making them a hit with students. But a no-go for colleges, as well as extended lockdowns have rendered them out of business. The otherwise bustling lanes of the campus lie barren, painting a picture of gloom. Sudama Prasad of Sudama Tea Stall near Ramjas College had to shift from his accommodation in Kamla Nagar to Sonia Vihar to save rent. He used to employ four boys at his stall, all of whom he sent back with two months’ advance payment. He is sceptical of reopening, lest anyone complains about him. “Daily ₹ 1,500 kamaa lete the. Koi madad nahi mili hai kisi se. Dukaan khol bhi le toh koi baccha complaint bhi kar sakta hai isliye abhi toh soch bhi nahi raha hoon. 28 saal ho gaye yahaan par kabhi aisi majboori nahi dekhi,” he says. With no money coming in and expenses to take care of, many have been forced to go back to their villages. Sarfuddin, who used to manage Saroj Juice Hut near Arts Faculty, has gone back to his village in Kaiserganj, Uttar Pradesh. The shop owner had called him back, but he feels that it’s a long way before business picks up pace. “Jiska dhanda-paani bandh ho jaaye uska guzaara kaise chalega. Maalik ka phone aaya tha ki vaapis aa jaao, lekin mujhe nahi lagta kaam raftaar pakdega kyuki zyada dikkat toh khaane-peene mein hi aa rahi hai,” he says. The shop would make a sale of around ₹ 5,000 every day and employed four people. Manchanda Snacks was established in 1997 by Satish Manchanda outside the old Law Faculty building, and now his son, Vinay, manages the shop. He had employed two people to help man the shop, both of whom left for their homes. “We would make ₹ 6,000- ₹ 7,000 per day easily because this used to be peak time for us. Now we are not sure of the future, at least till June,” he says, adding, “The losses are manifold. We would also need to do something about the expired stock at the shop once we reopen, so that’s also a financial loss we will have to incur,” says Vinay.Read: DU open book mode exams: Over 170 teachers ask VC to not hold online exams, say will compromise sanctitySome stall owners have found ways to continue business, albeit not without losses. “The shop is closed. We are taking orders at home, and delivering them on our own. There are only a handful of orders which we make in our kitchen. Earlier we would sell 100-150 plates of maggi, making a sale of upto ₹ 10,000 per day. Hopefully, after June 1, we will get some clarity to reopen,” says Sandeep Kataria of Tom Uncle Maggi Point, located near Ramjas College.Appealing to the government to let the stalls ply during specific hours, Sunil Kashyap, says, “I would request the government to let us reopen our stalls with a time limit. I would make ₹ 15,000-₹. 20,000 a month but it’s all gone now. Ek yehi kaam kiya hai poori zindagi aur yehi kaam aata hai. Naya kaam lagaane ka matlab hai ki jo thodi bahut savings hain, usse bhi risk karna,” says Kashyap who used to sell bread pakoras and aloo tikkis at his stall in Kamla Nagar market. Nostalgia and memories surround these shops, and the owners each have tales galore of their own to share. An evening of exchanging notes over sweet, milky tea at Sudama bhaiyya, or a birthday treat of noodles and chilled soft drinks at Tom Uncle — these shops have been an intrinsic part of the students’ journeys. With renewed practices and a little push from the authorities, one can only hope to see this sight again.Interact with Etti Bali @TheBalinianFollow @htcity for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/no-show-at-du-amid-lockdown-renders-standalone-street-food-vendors-jobless/story-FZsH02JkQc2I5EgQurB2TO.html
23-05-2020||Jaipur||48 more cases in Rajasthan, tally reaches 6,542||With 48 new cases of coronavirus reported in Rajasthan, the total count for confirmed Covid-19 cases reached 6,542 in the state, said an official on Saturday.Click here for full Covid-29 coverage“The state has recorded 48 new Covid-19 cases while 2 died, making the cumulative count of 6542,” confirmed State Health Department in a daily update.The maximum number of cases was reported from Nagaur (17), Kota (10), Jhunjhunu (6), Jaipur (5) and Jhalawar (4) in Rajasthan.Out of these 6,542 cases, the total death count stands at 155 as of Saturday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/48-more-cases-in-rajasthan-tally-reaches-6-542/story-0KGNDB4sjiwUDpyqVo3RZN.html
23-05-2020||Jaipur||Ensure proper arrangements for migrants coming by air: Gehlot to district authorities||Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has directed respective district collectors of Rajasthan to ensure adequate arrangement for well-maintained quarantine centres as five airports -- Jaipur, Jodhpur, Jaisalmer, Bikaner, and Udaipur, are expected to receive passengers from different parts of the world.Additionally, quarantine centres have also been arranged in Alwar, looking at its proximity to Delhi.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIAS Subodh Agarwal, ACS Industries & MSME and Head, State Level Committee for Interstate Migration said, “Rajasthan Government had undertaken all necessary steps to ensure smooth and convenient screening, testing and exit movement for people. All travelers were sent to the institutional quarantine for 14 days. All of them were given masks, sanitizers, and snacks with a welcome note by key officials at the Jaipur airport.”The Rajasthan government has especially spoken to Delhi and Gujarat Governments to ensure that proper arrangements are made, in terms of screening, testing, and maintenance of quarantine centres for Rajasthani migrants coming back to their respective state’s airports.Jaipur will be witnessing around 16 more flights carrying about 2000 state migrants from Kazakhstan, Canada, UK, Russia, and other countries in the coming weeks.Till May 21, around 310 Rajasthani migrants have reached back safely to the different parts of the country viz Delhi, Kerala, Gujarat etc by air. In fact, on Friday, 139 more Rajasthani migrants came back to the state by air from London to Jaipur.As per Rajasthan Government reports, around 8,500 Rajasthani migrants have registered themselves to return to the state. The government has taken best possible efforts to ensure that health and wellbeing of migrants aren’t compromised at any stage. Proper screening and testing facilities have been deployed for each and every person coming back to the State, said Agarwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/ensure-proper-arrangements-for-migrants-coming-by-air-gehlot-to-district-authorities/story-sANixU2EwlfTAuksNrx2QN.html
23-05-2020||Delhi||Migrant workers sprayed with disinfectant in south Delhi, civic body says ‘by mistake’||A group of migrants, waiting outside a Lajpat Nagar school for heath screening, were sprayed with a disinfectant by an area civic body worker on Friday.The South Delhi Municipal Corporation later said it happened by “mistake” as the worker could not handle the pressure of the jetting machine and its official present at the spot had “apologised” to the public.Click here for Covid-19 coverageScores of migrants had gathered outside the Hemu Kalani Senior Secondary School for screening in Lajpat Nagar-3 before boarding a Shramik Special train.A video clip of the incident was circulated on social media. A worker engaged in a sanitation drive can be seen spraying disinfectant on some of the migrant workers present there.“Since the school is in a residential colony, there was huge demand from residents for disinfecting the compound and the road. But due to the pressure of the jetting machine, the worker could not manage it for some moments.“The staff has already been instructed to be more careful and attentive while doing the job in future. The official present at the site apologised to public,” the SDMC said in a statement.A massive number of migrant workers and their family have been attempting to reach home, by any means of transportation, while a large number of them have been undertaking the journey on foot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/migrant-workers-sprayed-with-disinfectant-in-south-delhi-civic-body-says-by-mistake/story-6TPuE65DMpulqocVQths2H.html
23-05-2020||Jaipur||SHO commits suicide in Rajasthan’s Churu: Reports||The station house officer (SHO) of Rajgarh police station in Rajasthan’s Churu district allegedly killed himself, reports said on on Saturday.New agency PTI cited an unnamed senior police official as saying that the body of Vishnudutt Bishnoi was found hanging inside his official accommodation.Senior officers, including Churu’s superintendent of police Tejaswani Gautam, have reached the spot and the matter is being probed.The police is also being told to get a suicide note from the spot, but the officials have refused to say anything about it yet.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/sho-commits-suicide-in-rajasthan-s-churu-reports/story-nIdqffEARbFegqYoBVygOL.html
23-05-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana’s flower farmers demand relief package||The flower farmers of Haryana’s Jhajjar district have appealed the government to provide them a relief package as they had faced huge losses amid the lockdown.The farmers say the flowers planted in the fields have withered and they have incurred losses worth crores.“It costs us Rs 25, Rs 40 and Rs 50 to grow lilium, carnation, and gypsophila flowers, respectively,” said Silak Ram, farmer.“It takes a lot of hard work and money to grow flowers in an area like Bahadurgarh, Jhajjar. But now farmers have started uprooting these dried flowers,” said Silak Ram.“Flower buyers are locked in their homes, and the flowers are withering away in the fields. Floriculture is neither insured nor has the government given relief to the flower growers. The farmers have requested the government for help,” said Harishankar, a farmer.“These flowers are in great demand from March to June, during marriages, and on Ram Navami and Eid, they generate good revenue. But the lockdown has broken the back of the flower producing farmers,” added Harishankar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-s-flower-farmers-demand-relief-package/story-SHpXxZ3iU20x32DLbvEHfM.html
23-05-2020||Kolkata||Cyclone Amphan: Death toll in Bengal reaches 85, protests over failure to restore normalcy||The death toll due to Cyclone Amphan in West Bengal has risen to 85, as angry Kolkatans resorted to protest and road blockades in various parts of the city over the administration’s failure to restore normalcy even after three days. With normal life thrown out of gear by the region’s worst weather disasters, the authorities scrambled in various parts of the state to restore normalcy. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is likely to visit Cyclone Amphan hit South 24 Parganas district on Saturday and take stock of the situation. Lakhs of people were rendered homeless as Cyclone Amphan cut a path of destruction through half-a-dozen districts of the state on Wednesday, flattening houses, uprooting thousands of trees and swamping low-lying areas. According to official sources, around 1.5 crore people of the state have been directly affected and more than 10 lakh houses destroyed due to the cyclone. Although electricity and mobile connection were restored in some parts of Kolkata, and North and South 24 Parganas districts, many areas continued to remain in darkness as power poles had been blown away and communication lines snapped. Several roads and houses in Kolkata, Howrah, and North and South 24 Parganas districts continue to remain waterlogged, as hapless citizens came out on the streets against the administration’s “apathy and ineffectiveness”. People in various parts of Kolkata staged protests and blockades since Friday night demanding immediate resumption of power and water supply, three days after Amphan ravaged the state. Firhad Hakim, chairman of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation board of administrators, assured the people that normalcy would be restored in a week, as government officials were working round the clock to improve the situation. “More than 5,000 trees have been uprooted. We have already cleared several roads,” Hakim said. “We are in touch with the private power supply provider and had asked them to restore supply as early as possible.” In Kakdwip area of South 24 Parganas district, people complained that they were not given enough tarpaulin sheets to cover the roofs of houses damaged by the cyclone. In Hingalganj block of North 24 Parganas, people claimed they were running out of food, as shops in the vicinity were yet to lift shutters in the aftermath of the calamity. “The entire area is underwater and we are out of food for the last three days. We are yet to get any relief,” said Geeta Mahali, a resident of the area. Several relief camps have come up in the districts, where hapless people have queued up for two squares of meal and shelter after their homes being either blown or washed away. Teams of the National Disaster Response Force and the State Disaster Relief Force have been working on a war-footing to clear the roads blocked by the uprooted trees. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had flew down to Kolkata on Friday and undertook an aerial survey of the cyclone-hit areas along with Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. Lauding the efforts of the state government in combating the crisis, Modi announced an advance assistance of Rs 1,000 crore for the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/cyclone-amphan-death-toll-in-bengal-reaches-85-protests-over-failure-to-restore-normalcy/story-EcBq8zQHs1eQRPVbLDOb8M.html
23-05-2020||Chandigarh||ASHA worker among three found Covid-19 positive in Patiala||Three people, including an accredited social health activist (ASHA worker), have tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) here on Saturday morning.Those found positive are a 43-year-old Rajpura resident, who had returned from Maharashtra; a 37-year-old combine helper from Noorkheri village, who had returned from Uttar Pradesh and a 38-year-old ASHA worker who was posted at the health sub-centre in Jalalpur in Kauli block.Patiala civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said, “The ASHA worker is asymptomatic and has no travel or contact history. The reports of other five ASHA workers working with her came out negative.” “Her high-risk contacts are being traced and she will be tested again after five days,” Malhotra said, adding that as per the guidelines it is mandatory for the health department to carry random testing of those working on the frontline.“We have shifted all three patients to the isolation ward of government Rajindra hospital,” the civil surgeon said.So far, 111 people have tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/asha-worker-among-three-found-covid-19-positive-in-patiala/story-8MDktsS7xtgBSoTVYOUIBK.html
23-05-2020||Patna||61 fresh Covid-19 cases in Bihar; count rises to 2,166||Sixty-one more people have tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Bihar, taking the total number of Covid-19 cases in the state to 2,166, health department officials said.Of the fresh cases, the highest number was reported in Buxar (13), followed by Khagaria (nine), Gaya (seven), East Champaran (six), five each in Bhagalpur, West Champaran and Sitamarhi, three each in Begusarai, Muzaffarpur and Munger and one each in Arwal and Kaimur districts, they said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageLate on Friday evening, the health department tweeted, “61 more Covid-19 +ve cases in Bihar taking the total to 2166. We are ascertaining their trail of infection.” The patients from Buxar include two one-year-old boys and a seven-year-old girl, it said. #BiharFightsCorona 2nd update of the day. ➡️61 more #COVIDー19 +ve cases in Bihar taking the total to 2166. The details are as following. We are ascertaining their trail of infection.#BiharHealthDept pic.twitter.com/csOUwPKnYkA 22-year-old migrant worker, who died three days ago soon upon his return from Delhi, was acknowledged on Friday as Bihar’s 11th Covid-19 fatality by the state health department.According to a senior health department official, the deceased, who belonged to Khagaria district, had returned to the state by a special train on Tuesday.He had a high fever and died within hours of arrival, following which his sample was collected and sent for testing. The report confirmed that he was infected with the dreaded novel coronavirus.The contagion has so far claimed the lives of 11 people, including two each in Patna, Vaishali and Khagaria districts and one each in Rohtas, Munger, East Champaran, Sitamarhi and Begusarai districts.Of the total 2,166 positive cases in the state, 1,526 are active while 629 Covid-19 patients have recovered.At 186, Patna topped the list of positive cases, followed by Munger (140), Begusarai (125), Rohtas (123), Madhubani (115), Buxar (113), Jehanabad (106) and Khagaria (105).A total of 58,905 samples have been tested so far at seven facilities in Patna, Bhagalpur, Muzaffarpur and Darbhanga.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/61-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-bihar-count-rises-to-2-166/story-WVrVTgAKjJPuYLkAnsheKJ.html
23-05-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand puts over three lakh people under govt and home quarantine||The huge influx of migrant workers in the state has not only swelled the number of people observing home and institutional quarantine by three lakhs but also gave a further thrust to ever increasing graph of Covid-19 cases, which now crossed 300-mark and counting.What is more worrying is the scanty sample testing. While the state has currently over 2.9 lakh people observing home or institutional quarantine, the number of samples tested so far is only 42,000.According to state health department’s May 21 bulletin, the number of people in quarantine centres rose by nearly seven times from 10,304 to 71,123 and those staying in home quarantine increased by almost double from 1.11 lakh to over 2.19 lakh in last 10 days.“The steep growth in number of quarantined people is due to migrant workers coming in hoards in state,” said a senior health department’s official.These workers, after their arrival in the state, are being sent to institutional quarantine or home quarantine. Besides district level quarantine centres, such facilities have been set up at school buildings and other government buildings at village and block levels.The bulletin also mentioned that of the 303 positive cases detected till May 21 (Friday), 147 cases were found in migrant workers who returned to Jharkhand after May 5.“The influx of people from outside the state will definitely increase the positive cases here. It has been noticed that many workers, who were tested positive, had arrived from red zones like Mumbai and Surat. It’s, therefore, necessary to keep all those coming from these locations in institutional quarantine,” said Dr A K Singh, state president of Indian Medical Association (IMA).“But for effective containment of the disease, we have to escalate sample testing and keep a strict monitoring on movement of people observing isolation. It has been reported that many workers put in quarantine centres at village schools came out freely without a check,” added Singh.The Covid-19 pandemic has been spreading its tentacles after the return of migrant workers in Jharkhand as the state’s 21 of 24 districts have come under its grip.The worst-affected districts are Garhwa, Hazaribag, Giridih and Koderma from where 47, 33, 16 and 16 cases respectively had been reported till May 21.Ranchi district, which reported the state’s first case on March 31, has alone witnessed 112 positive cases, including two confirmed cases in migrant workers so far. However, it saw swift recovery of patients as 91 have been cured and discharged.While, the disease seven days growth rate in the state stood at 5.84% against the national average of 5.36%, the doubling period is 12.20 days against the national average of 13.28 days. Jharkhand’s recovery rate is, however, better than the national average which is 40.30% against state’s 42.72%.BoxDate. People in IQ. People in HQMay 11. 10304. 111064May 12. 12459. 115532May 13. 15218. 124170May 14. 19914. 128960May 15. 23812. 122152May 16. 28222. 152017May 17. 32521. 158975May 18. 51718. 186313May 19. 64425. 196763May 20. 67021. 207830May 21. 71123. 219036IQ--Institutional quarantineHQ--Home quarantine||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/over-300-cases-and-counting-3-lakh-people-in-home-and-govt-quarantine-42-000-tested/story-mVBKru4b5l8B1GLMhXzaJL.html
23-05-2020||Delhi||Man arrested for raping woman lawyer in Delhi||A 23-year-old man was arrested for allegedly barging into the house of a lawyer in southeast Delhi’s Nizamuddin area and raping her, police said on Friday.The accused has been identified as Sonu. He also tried to strangulate the woman, they said.The complainant alleged that the accused barged into her house through a balcony on May 17. He held her hostage and raped her. When he tried to strangulate her, she raised an alarm and the accused fled from the spot, a senior police officer said.The woman was taken to a hospital for treatment and a case registered under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the officer said.Sonu was identified after scanning all CCTV footage of the area and arrested on Thursday. He was involved in several burglary cases as well, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/man-arrested-for-raping-woman-lawyer-in-delhi/story-ba5aHheAVOWlP1aVHhjebP.html
23-05-2020||Chandigarh||17 test positive in HP, tally climbs to 185||Seventeen more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh on Saturday, taking the state’s Covid-19 tally to 185.Six cases have been reported in Kangra, four in Mandi and one each in Shimla and Una.Among the Mandi patients, one belongs to Baldwara area of Sarkaghat, had been under institutional quarantine after returning from Mumbai on May 18.He was shifted to Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College (SLSGMC), Nerchowk, after he complained of chest pain on May 21, said Mandi deputy commissioner Rugved Milind Thakur.Three remaining patients, of which two are women, hail from Lad-Bhadol area of Jogindernagar sub-division. They were under institutional quarantine at the HP Revenue Training Institute. The patients have been shifted to SLSGMC, which is a dedicated Covid-care centre.One case was reported in Shimla. The patient, a 72-year-old woman of Hamirpur district, was suffering from a kidney ailment.She tested positive at Indira Gandhi Medical College, Shimla. She, along with her husband, had returned from Jalandhar earlier this month after undergoing treatment for a kidney ailment.Earlier her husband had tested for positive and is under treatment.Meanwhile, six people, including two women, were tested positive in Kangra in the afternoon. Five patients hailing from Jaisinghpur and Palampur subdivision returned from Mumbai on May 18 and were under institutional quarantine, said Kangra Deputy Commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati.One of the patients is a 70-years-old woman. Sixth case in Kangra is a 68-year-old man who returned from Jalandhar and was undergoing treatment for respiratory distress at Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College (RPGMC), Tanda.Five cases have been reported in Solan district. The patients belonging to Ramshehar town of Nalagarh sub-division returned from West Bengal in a truck and were under institutional quarantine.One case has been reported from Una. The patient was the member of a marriage party that returned from West Bengal after being stranded there for almost two months. He was under institutional quarantine.With five new cases, active cases in the state have gone up to 121.Himachal witnessed a spurt in the Covid-19 cases after May 4 with 144 people testing positive for the virus.63 CASES IN THREE DAYSSeventy-four cases have been reported in three days. The state reported the biggest single-day spike on Thursday after 42 cases were reported.Hamirpur is the worst-hit district with 60 cases followed by Kangra with 49 cases. Both the districts have 60% of the patients with 109 cases.Twenty cases have been reported from Una, 19 in Solan, 13 in Chamba, 10 in Mandi, seven in Bilaspur, four in Sirmaur, two in Shimla and one in Kullu.A total of 57 people have been cured of the virus in the state.Till date, 25,629 samples have been tested in the state. Around 1,500 tests are being conducted in the state daily.A total of 25,412 people are under active surveillance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/four-mumbai-returnees-test-positive-in-mandi-himachal-s-covid-19-tally-climbs-to-172/story-nonZkl2DBq9ToZujM3RAaO.html
23-05-2020||Chandigarh||Three engineers suspended over Rohru bridge collapse||Ten days after an under construction bridge collapsed in Rohru, the state government suspended three engineers of the Himachal Pradesh Public Works Department (PWD) on Saturday.The then Rohru division HPPWD executive engineer Ravi Bhatti, who is at present posted at Theog; assistant engineer Narender Singh Naik and junior engineer Vijay Kumar have been suspended for negligence in supervising and monitoring the construction of the double-lane bridge over River Pabbar at Bakhirna in Rohru.PROJECT WAS BUILT AT ESTIMATED COST OF RS 20 CROREThe bridge had collapsed on May 13. The bridge was being built at an estimated cost of Rs 20 crore.The engineers were suspended on the recommendation of a three-member expert committee constituted to ascertain the cause for the bridge collapse.Principal secretary PWD JC Sharma said, “The committee in its report found technical shortcomings in the construction and also pointed out negligence in supervision. A detailed inquiry found these three engineers primarily responsible for the lapse.” SHOW-CAUSE NOTICE ISSUED TO REMAINING OFFICIALS“These officers have been put under suspension and show cause notices have been issued to the remaining officers and officials posted and associated with the said construction work,” he said.Sharma said the Jai Ram Thakur-led state government was committed to ensuring quality construction and any laxity will invite strict action against the erring officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-engineers-suspended-over-rohru-bridge-collapse/story-zAoJavYWmu1Us1KmtAIJNI.html
23-05-2020||Pune||Pune district’s Covid-19 tally crosses 5,000-mark; deaths 257||Pune registered the biggest single-day jump of 358 Covid-19 cases on Friday, due to which the district’s tally of such patients crossed the 5,000-mark, a health official said.With the death of 15 more persons due to coronavirus infection, the number of victims reached 257 in the district, the official said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe number of Covid-19 cases in Pune district now stands at 5,167.“Of the 358 new cases, as many as 317 were detected in Pune city alone. Nine cases were found in neighbouring Pimpri Chinchwad township and 32 in Cantonment and rural areas,” the official said.The coronavirus positive cases found so far in Pune city, Pimpri Chinchwad and rural areas are 4,471, 253 and 443 respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-district-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-5-000-mark-deaths-257/story-kWal7UfhBzzS2dIljY9BoK.html
23-05-2020||Chandigarh||Sanitise hair-cutting equipment after each use; no central AC at wedding venues in Haryana||Salons, beauty parlours and hair-dressing shops in Haryana will have to keep multiple sets of sanitised hair-cutting equipment, including scissors, combs and brushes. Every equipment will have to sanitised after each use with 7% Lysol for 30 minutes.Issuing the standard operating protocol (SOP) for salons and barber shops in Haryana, the urban local bodies department on Saturday said that staff at salons will have to wear an apron, a head cover and a face mask compulsorily at all times. A disposable towel/paper sheet should be used for each customer.Appointment or token system should be put in place by salons to stagger entry and clients without masks will not be allowed.People with fever, cold, cough and throat pain will not be allowed inside salons.Hand sanitisers will be made available on entry and staff members will have to sanitise hands after every hair cut.DISINFECTANTS AND DISPOSALThe SoP said all common areas, floors, elevators, lounges, staircases, and handrails should be disinfected with 1% sodium hypochlorite solution minimum twice a day. Sharp waste, including disposable razors and shaving blades, should be collected in a puncture proof, leak-proof white container with 1% sodium hypochlorite solution. The container once 75% filled should be handed over to the municipalities for further disposal by a designated bio-hazardous waste disposal agency.Posters displaying cough etiquettes and social distancing should be put at the entrance of salons.NO LIQUOR, PAAN AT WEDDINGSAn advisory said wedding functions should be held at a public place with natural ventilation and no central air-conditioning should be used.Prior permission to hold the ceremony and travel passes will have to be obtained from the deputy commissioner.“Persons from containment zones will not be allowed to attend the ceremony and a maximum of 50 people wearing masks and maintaining social distancing of one metre can attend a wedding,” the advisory said.Thermal screening of all guests will be done at the entry to the venue and hand sanitisers will be made available at the entry and inside the venue. Consumption of liquor, paan, and tobacco will be prohibited at the wedding venue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sanitise-hair-cutting-equipment-after-each-use-no-central-ac-at-wedding-venues-in-haryana/story-nSui4l5cd0qBYSyCXVoOjM.html
23-05-2020||Pune||Infosys adopts Covid-hit slum, donates 10,000 masks||While several Infosys Pune volunteers and organisations are providing a helping hand with cooked meals and packed ration, the corporate social responsibility (CSR) team has taken it a step further by adopting a slum and looking after its needs during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.A team from CSR Infosys along with additional commissioner Ashok Morale, Ravindra Shisve and Sanjay Shinde adopted Lohiya nagar slum, near Timber market and handed over 10,000 masks to the residents living there.The Infosys team were helping the police in kind by donating masks and protective kits when the idea was suggested by the commissioner of police Dr K Venkatesham and Morale.“While we were in discussion to help the Pune police as part of our CSR activities during Covid-19, Ashok Morale mentioned this call for help to adopt a slum, which we found worth looking into. Since the first lockdown, our employees and the company has been working towards donating rations early in the lockdown period to various people in need, then shifting to providing cooked meals to those in various shelters, where the first batch was in Bhokharewadi in Hinjewadi phase II, thus as and when requested, we were providing help,” said Pravin Kulkarni, vice president, and development centre head, Infosys Pune.According to Kulkarni, Infosys has also given 20 ventilators to civil hospitals and municipal hospitals. We have also donated personal protective equipment (PPE) to doctors, hospitals, and police, giving santisers and masks.“Most of the women came forward to take the set of reusable cotton masks. This slum has 50,000 people living in congested small homes, mostly labourers who work in and around timber market and it was in the main peth area,” said Dattatreya Pandit, member of the CSR team, who was present for the donation drive. “This is just the beginning, we also plan to give them either soaps or sanitisers which are limited resources for them next which is important and plan to educate them on hand hygiene,” added Pandit.Morale confirmed this adoption and said, his team met the Infosys team when they came to help Pune police with 2,000 masks and while discussing with them, it was appealed to them to help adopt a slum, which has more than 300 positive cases and lacks basic amenities.“We had given them four slums that we have identified like Patil estate, Tadiwala road, Gadital and Lohiyanagar. This is the first IT company to come forward and adopt a slum and we hope others will follow soon to help break the chain and prevent Covid-19 from spreading further.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/infosys-adopts-covid-hit-slum-donates-10-000-masks/story-WLU89HbLfZISimy6a7bawI.html
23-05-2020||Pune||Pune dog lovers rescue pets abandoned due to coronavirus fears||Dog lovers in Maharashtra’s Pune city have come to the rescue of pets, especially dogs of foreign breeds, who have been abandoned by their owners over misplaced fears of contracting coronavirus infection from them.Over 50 volunteers from Animal Adoption and Rescue Team (AART) have been patrolling the streets of Pune, looking to rescue abandoned pets and feeding strays during the Covid-19 lockdown.“Since the lockdown was imposed, we have seen a rise in cases of dog owners abandoning their pets, especially those of imported breeds such as Dobermans, Labradors and German Shepherds,” said Ajay Pujar, one of the volunteers.The organisation had so far rescued over 40 such dogs from different parts of the city and sent them to shelter homes in the outskirts of Pune, he said. Many dog owners were abandoning their pets over misplaced fears and misconceptions that coronavirus infection was transmitted from animals, he said.“Another reason for this phenomenon is that several pet owners, including students, have left the city because of the pandemic, leaving the animals behind,” he added.After the lockdown was imposed, the organisation had received a call from a housing society, where some students had returned to their hometowns, leaving their two dogs locked in their flat.“We rescued the dogs who were left behind without any food or means to survive,” he said.Abandoning pets had become a common phenomenon during the health crisis, said Vineeta Tandon, who heads Animal Rescue Trust. “As abandoning pets is a crime, dog owners don’t call shelter homes directly and instead leave these canines tied to gates of dog shelters or abandon them in areas where they know strays are fed regularly,” she said.The health ministry has clarified that coronavirus cannot be transmitted from dogs and cats to humans, said Tandon, who runs a shelter home in Kharadi area. The organisation has so far rescued dogs of 23 foreign breeds since the lockdown, she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-dog-lovers-rescue-pets-abandoned-due-to-coronavirus-fears/story-C7nebaj6IR2lB8Wi6VwRrO.html
23-05-2020||Lucknow||Covid-19 fallout: Lower, middle-income families head home after job cuts||Besides daily wagers, security guards, drivers, waiters, office boys, cooks, call centre workers, startup employees and others are also quitting cities and heading home due to uncertainty about jobs and practically no income.However, these workers are pooling money to hire vehicles.Rajesh Kashyap, who worked as a salesman in a multi-brand garment retail outlet in Lakshminagar of east Delhi hired a van with his cousins for Rs 60,000 to return home to Gorakhpur. “I earned Rs 18,000 monthly before lockdown was imposed. I have not received any salary in the lockdown. I think it will take a while for me to get my job back so I decided to head home,” Rajesh said.He was returning home with his wife and two children, cousins and their families. There were 14 people in the van. “My cousins and I pooled in 20,000 each to hire this vehicle. There was no option but to return home,” he added.The group left Delhi in the wee hours of Saturday and reached Gorakhpur by 7 pm.More than 3,000 such vehicles crossed the toll booth in the past six weeks, almost all of them carrying families heading home. “Most traveller vans are returning from Delhi, Gurugram and Noida. A few are also returning from places in Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Gujarat,” said an employee at the toll booth on Lucknow-Agra Expressway on the outskirts of Lucknow.Sudhakar Yadav, worker in a diamond polishing unit in Surat, Gujarat entered Lucknow via the same toll booth on Sunday. He was accompanied by six other workers of the same unit travelling in an SUV. “We were all very worried about the situation and decided to return home. We have all paid Rs 1 lakh to hire this vehicle till our house in Jaunpur district,” Yadav said.A machine operator at the unit, Yadav was paid Rs 22,000 monthly. The salary was reduced to half in March when the lockdown was imposed and he was not paid in April.A few desperate people, mostly youngsters, even called their relatives to take them home. Dileep Mandal of Bihar drove up to Delhi in his car to bring back his son and his friend from Gurugram. Mandal’s son was employed with a start-up tech firm in Gurugram that collapsed in the lockdown.Economic experts believe that close to 10 million people from east UP and Bihar are employed in Delhi NCR who will have to face difficult times ahead. “More than half of these people will lose their jobs in coming days if proper financial aid is not provided. In such conditions they will be forced to return home creating a vacuum of skilled labour,” said Ramesh Shirodker, a Mumbai-based economist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/covid-19-fallout-workers-from-lower-and-middle-income-groups-also-head-home/story-O4MKKPPObRvHDzFQLnmBKK.html
23-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality in ‘moderate’ category amid Covid-19 lockdown||With the easing of lockdown restrictions and the commencement of vehicular movement in the capital and nearby regions, the pollution level in Delhi docked in the higher end of the ‘moderate’ category with the overall Air Quality Index (AQI) at 162 at 9 am on Saturday.The concentrations of major polluting particles including PM10 and PM2.5 docked at 193 and 79 respectively.As per the data compiled by the Central Pollution Control Board, some major areas of the capital such as Sirifort, Delhi University and Indira Gandhi International Airport, the air quality was recorded at 130, 184 and 130 respectively.Meanwhile, Chandni Chowk, which is a popular market, recorded the air quality in the poor category with the concentrations of PM10 and PM2.5 at 157 and 211 respectively.Ashok Vihar, ITO, Mundka, and Wazirpur recorded an overall AQI value of 207, 243, 229, and 223 respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-air-quality-in-moderate-category-amid-covid-19-lockdown/story-iFCs0F5jzR6hZlDnDrX1GN.html
23-05-2020||Bhopal||Lockdown 4.0: Brought back over 5 lakh migrants to Madhya Pradesh, says report||Over five lakh migrant workers from Madhya Pradesh, who were stranded in different parts of the country due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown, have been brought back to their home state, a government official said on Saturday.As of Friday, the state government had brought back over five lakh migrants, mostly by buses, additional chief secretary ICP Keshari said.At least 3.52 lakh migrants have returned to MP by buses while 1.46 lakh others returned on 119 special trains, said the senior bureaucrat, who is in-charge of state control room.Keshari said 2.02 lakh migrants were brought back from Gujarat, 1.12 lakh from Maharashtra and 1.10 lakh from Rajasthan.Apart from these, stranded migrants were also brought back from Goa, Delhi, Punjab, Haryana, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Telangana, he said.The state government has also been transporting migrant workers coming from other states to the Madhya Pradesh-Uttar Pradesh border.In view of the plight of migrant workers stuck in different parts of the country amid the lockdown, the Railways started operating ‘Shramik Special’ trains on May 1.The Centre had announced considerable relaxations during the third phase of the lockdown, which had kicked in on May 4, regarding the inter-state movement of migrant labourers, students, tourists and other people with priority accorded to those stranded in green and orange zones.The lockdown was subsequently extended till May 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/lockdown-4-0-brought-back-over-5-lakh-migrants-to-madhya-pradesh-says-report/story-EwtxnBhAvI8gWr5l0wbPfL.html
23-05-2020||Noida||‘No movement pass needed for people with flight, train tickets’: Noida Police||With the government opening up the skies for air travel from May 25 and 100 pairs of trains to be pressed into service from June 1, authorities in Noida have said that those with a confirmed rail or plane ticket will be allowed to cross the Delhi-Noida border for their travel purpose. The Gautam Buddh Nagar police said on Friday said that travellers from Noida and Greater Noida region need not require a movement pass to travel to Delhi amid the coronavirus lockdown if they have a confirmed rail or plane ticket. Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police, Law and Order, Ashutosh Dwivedi that the move has been taken keeping in mind the resumption of train and flight services in the coming days and to facilitate the movement of travellers from Noida and Greater Noida. Also read: Curbs during lockdown averted up to 78,000 deaths“The central government has decided to resume some domestic flights from May 25 and some train services from June 1 for which online bookings have also resumed, hence, all police personnel will ensure that all such people having confirmed flight or train tickets are permitted to travel to the airport or railway stations. These people do not require any other ‘pass’ for their movement,” Dwivedi said in an order.The Delhi-Noida border was sealed amid the coronavirus pandemic last month with authorities only allowing the movement of those working for the essential services. Only those with valid identity cards or a movement pass are currently allowed through the border. Also read: Covid-19 cases to peak in country between June 21-28 says studyEarlier this week, the Ministry of Civil Aviation and the Ministry of Railways announced that flight and rail services are set to resume in the country with conditions in the coming days. The civil aviation ministry announced a detailed list of guidelines for air passengers, stating that only one-third of operations will be resumed. The guidelines added that no eatables will be allowed inside the aircraft and only one cabin bag and check-in baggage will be allowed per passenger. The Railways announced that it will be starting 200 trains from June 1 and also issued guidelines on the same. The online booking of tickets started on Thursday. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/amid-covid-19-lockdown-4-0-no-movement-pass-needed-for-people-with-flight-train-tickets-noida-police/story-xD4caO2Svgra1R4ElkQnxH.html
23-05-2020||Delhi||14 new Covid-19 containment zones in Delhi, total zones in state at 92||Fourteen new areas were added to the list of containment zones in Delhi on Friday taking the total number of such zones to 92 in the national capital.Till date, 34 areas have been ‘de-contained in Delhi.11,659 persons have tested positive for Covid-19 in the national capital. 5,567 persons have been cured while the death toll is 194 in Delhi, according to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.There are 66,330 active cases of Covid-19 in the country at present. As many as 3,583 people have lost their lives due to the coronavirus in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/14-new-covid-19-containment-zones-in-delhi-total-zones-in-state-at-92/story-QwYCoxUeuSD6cYVf75ZUYP.html
23-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi to get 2,000 oxygen concentrators, may change norms to buy more PPEs||Anticipating the need for more oxygen than ventilators to treat patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the Delhi government has set out to procure 2,000 oxygen concentrators. An oxygen concentrator is a device that removes nitrogen from the ambient air to enrich it with about 93% concentrated oxygen for patients in need of respiratory support, with a mask, whereas a ventilator is a machine that pumps air in and out of the lungs through a tube. In India, only 0.45% of Covid-19 patients are still on ventilators, while 2.94% of them are on oxygen support, according to data from the union health ministry. The data also goes to show that 0.4% of Delhi’s patients are on ventilators but does not elaborate upon how many are on oxygen support.A senior official from Delhi’s health department said on condition of anonymity, “After treating so many Covid-19 patients, we’ve realised that most of them do not need ventilators. Oxygen support is good enough to improve their respiratory rate and oxygen concentration. Therefore, the Delhi government has decided to purchase oxygen concentrators.” The Delhi government is preparing for a worst-case scenario of 30,000 active cases simultaneously. There are 5,720 active cases in Delhi as on May 20, according to Delhi government data.The official quoted above said that oxygen concentrators would not only be used within hospitals where there aren’t any gas pipelines but also in hotels or dharamshalas where Covid-19 patients could be treated if the number of cases increases.“There are gas pipelines in most designated Covid-19 hospitals that deliver oxygen to patients. However, some hospitals make use of oxygen cylinders. Oxygen concentrators can be used in these hospitals instead, eliminating the need for oxygen cylinders. Also, if the number of cases goes up, and people start receiving treatment in hotels and dharamshalas, these machines can be transported there,” the senior official said. According to the official, the Delhi government was looking at purchasing 500 ventilators earlier. There are around 306 ventilators in government hospitals and 800 in private hospitals in Delhi as of now.An internal committee of the Delhi government has also started examining the standards for procuring personal protective equipment. According to Delhi government officials, the tender for two lakh PPE kits floated by the Delhi government has failed at least twice within a month as none of the 32 manufacturers could match the quality of the components—coveralls, respirators (N-95), gloves and goggles—that has been prescribed by the health ministry.“The health ministry guidelines have referred to international standards for goggles, masks, coveralls and gloves and several good quality products cannot be purchased if they are not certified according to these standards. Hence, the tenders failed. Now, an internal committee is looking at the products whose quality we can examine and if we find it satisfactory, procure them even if they do not have the requisite certification according to international standards,” another official from the health department said on condition of anonymity.According to the second official, there is no immediate shortage of the kits as “the government-run company HLL Lifecare Limited sent 40 trucks full of PPE kits to the Delhi government earlier this week”. HLL Lifecare Limited had been designated to procure PPE kits through global tenders; however, the company has now stopped procurement, the kits will now be available on Government E-Marketplace for state governments and hospitals to procure.In an earlier shipment last month, from HLL Lifecare Limited, the Delhi government had received only 1,700 goggles and masks (components of the PPE kits) for a total of 15,000 kits, because they were in short supply.“The N-95 respirators were in a short supply in the open market as there were just two of the ten existing Indian manufacturers of the masks in operation during the lockdown. They supplied mostly to HLL. The import from other countries had also gone down. However, the BIS has now allowed companies to get their products certified from approved laboratories outside. Earlier, one of the requirements for a manufacturer was to have a complete in-house testing facility, which usually cost ₹50 lakh to set up and around ₹2 lakh each year to maintain. Now, mostly MSMEs (Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises) make these respirators and cannot afford the testing facility. Several companies have now come forward to make the masks and the shortage should reduce within the week,” Sanjeev Relhan, chairman, Preventive Wear Manufacturers’ Association of India (PWMAI), said.“There is a shortage of goggles, though, as per the standards mentioned by the ministry of health, but there are enough face shields and visors available, which are actually more comfortable to work in, especially for those who wear spectacles. State governments could, perhaps, modify the health ministry’s guidelines. The guidelines for rational use of the kits have helped,” he said.The health ministry guidelines have clearly specified what kind of protective gear has to be worn in what parts of the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-to-get-2-000-oxygen-concentrators-may-change-norms-to-buy-more-ppes/story-wTfLjdSCBF0FNFQOvEKZPI.html
23-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s active case count climbs to 38 as Bapu Dham woman tests positive||A 35-year-old woman from Bapu Dham Colony tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), taking the total count of infections in the city to 219 on Friday.Officials said the woman was a family contact of a positive case from the locality. The total active cases in the city are now 38. With no fresh recovery on Friday, the number of patients discharged from the hospital stayed at 178.Meanwhile, officials said that eight household family contacts of a 27-year-old woman from Bapu Dham, who had tested positive on Thursday, had been traced and sampled.Also, another 17 samples taken from Bapu Dham on Thursday have tested negative.No fresh case was reported from neighbouring Mohali and Panchkula on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-active-case-count-climbs-to-38-as-bapu-dham-woman-tests-positive/story-pFfKid9KraGzZSQXgVldaL.html
23-05-2020||Chandigarh||Admn to acquire land for Dakshin Marg link to New Chandigarh at ₹75 cr||The UT administration has announced the award of compensation for acquiring a total of 17.76 acres land for connecting Dakshin Marg, Chandigarh, to PR4 (main road) on the Mullanpur side of the UT-Punjab boundary.The road is aimed at improving the connectivity between Chandigarh and Mohali by opening up a direct route from Dakshin Marg to New Chandigarh. This will be in addition to the road from Madhya Marg connected to Mullanpur. It will open an alternative route to Kurali and Baddi from Chandigarh.A total of Rs 74.67 crore compensation amount has been decided under Section 26 of the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act 2013.In an order issued by UT land acquisition officer, a compensation of Rs 2.35 crore per acre has been announced for 17 families for acquiring 5.56 acres in Dhanas and that of Rs 1.44 crore acre for 93 families for 12.2 acres to be acquired in Dadumajra.After paying the compensation, the administration will hand over the acquired land to the engineering department for the construction of the road on the Chandigarh side.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/admn-to-acquire-land-for-dakshin-marg-link-to-new-chandigarh-at-75-cr/story-NdiGkzUI0IEk873JwAeGwN.html
23-05-2020||City||Ex-bureaucrat’s Covid positive son goes missing: Family on the run too||The son of a retired Punjab bureaucrat and Sector 2 resident who tested positive for Covid-19 has been untraceable since Thursday, with his family also missing, the Panchkula civil surgeon has said in a police complaint.Giving details, district Covid officer Dr Rajiv Narwal called it a “serious issue”, adding “we have sought legal action against family under the Epidemic Act for not cooperating with the health authorities.”The police had been asked by the civil surgeon’s office to trace the patient immediately as he had to be isolated, Dr Narwal said, expressing surprise at “a highly educated family’s erratic behaviour.”It was important for the patient to be isolated immediately to prevent spread of the infection, he said, adding that the deputy commissioner and director, health services, were aware of the matter. PATIENT’S SON ALERTED HEALTH AUTHORITIESIt was the patient’s son, a doctor, who alerted district health authorities to his father’s Covid-19 status on Thursday after he tested positive on May 17 following treatment for oral cancer at a private hospital in Mumbai on May 7 and follow-up treatment at the hospital’s Delhi branch on May 16.Dr Narwal said when health authorities visited the patient’s father at their Panchkula home, he claimed that the patient had not visited the family for the last 25 days.Then, even as tracking the patient’s phone location revealed he was in Panchkula, another visit by the health team to his home on Friday proved unfruitful. Only his doctor son was present there.“He is the only one in the family cooperating (with health authorities) and is keen that his father and other family members be quarantined without any further delay,” said Dr Narwal. Meanwhile, district police commissioner Mohit Handa said he had received the copy of the complaint from the health department and that the matter was under consideration. Of the 26 Covid-19 patients in the district so far, 23 have been cured and discharged and one has died even though the second sample tested negative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/former-bureaucrat-s-son-goes-missing-after-testing-positive-for-covid-19-family-on-the-run-too/story-fEzR72GVDcvfm6JVQxwEuM.html
23-05-2020||Chandigarh||Plans afoot for elevated road linking Chandigarh’s Madhya Marg to Sarangpur||For improved connectivity from Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) to the Sarangpur institutional area and New Chandigarh (Mullanpur), an elevated road connecting Madhya Marg to Sarangpur-Mullanpur four-lane road is in the works.As per the UT administration plan, the road is to be constructed to bypass two major traffic bottlenecks - villages Khuda Jassu and Khuda Lahora - on the route to Sarangpur and New Chandigarh.The elevated road is to start from Khuda Jassu high-level bridge and descend near the Botanical Garden in Sarangpur after crossing the two villages.“The route is crucial for smooth traffic flow to Sarangpur institutional area, where a number of projects are slated to come up, including the extension campuses of PGIMER and Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16,” said a senior UT official privy to the development.The PGIMER extension will be constructed over 50 acres and house the screening outpatient departments (OPDs), a 400-bed trauma centre and the oncology department. The GMSH-16 affiliate centre is planned to come up on 15 acres in Sarangpur’s Education City. The administration has proposed to convert GMSH into city’s second medical college after Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in Sector 32. It will have 100 seats.“The elevated road will also help in improving connectivity to New Chandigarh and, through it, to Baddi industrial area in Himachal Pradesh,” the official said.Currently, the road passing through the two villages is narrow and often leads to traffic jams. “With multiple high-ticket projects coming up in Sarangpur and New Chandigarh, the traffic volume to these areas will increase manifold in the coming years. So, need for better road connectivity was felt,” the official added.Significantly, an alternative route connecting Chandigarh to New Chandigarh is already in the works from Dakshin Marg. The administration has initiated the land acquisition process for constructing the road for extending Dakshin Marg to New Chandigarh.CONSULTANT TO BE APPOINTED SOONThe UT engineering department will be appointing a technical consultant for the project shortly. The consultant will conduct a geo-technical study and prepare preliminary drawings of the project, besides cost estimates and project’s timeline. The department has invited applications for the appointment of a consultant.“After the consultant’s report, the cost, plans and drawings of the proposed road will be finalised by the administration. The project plans will also need to be approved by the heritage committee and require environmental clearance,” said the official.SURVEY FOR PGI PEDESTRIAN UNDERPASSThe UT engineering department will also be appointing a technical consultant to prepare a detailed topographical survey, feasibility study, and traffic survey for the construction of the proposed pedestrian subway between PGIMER and Panjab University on the Madhya Marg.The consultant will have to complete the work in 10 days after appointment. They will also prepare a presentation and walk-through, along with 3D views for the proposed subway.Punjab governor and UT administrator VP Singh Badnore had given in-principle approval to the pedestrian subway last year. It is one of the busiest traffic points with heavy pedestrian movement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/plans-afoot-for-elevated-road-linking-chandigarh-s-madhya-marg-to-sarangpur/story-LcwFEZX4zwsM9kx7sUh4QN.html
23-05-2020||City||Maharashtra CM asks cultural department to study if shooting for TV shows can resume||Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday directed officials of state cultural department to study if television (TV) shootings can resume at Goregaon’s Film City area. In a meeting with a delegation of film producers and broadcasters, Thackeray asked officials to identify safe and secluded locations where film and TV shootings can resume after following all health guidelines. He asked the delegation to prepare a plan on how they can restart shooting and other production-related works and the cultural affairs department will study the plan, CM said acknowledging that the TV industry provides livelihood to several people and that he is not in favour of shutting down everything. Representatives of the Indian Broadcasting Foundation, including its chief NP Singh, coordinator Punit Goenka, along with producers Ekta Kapoor and Nitin Vaidya had a meeting with CM via video-conferencing, in which Shiv Sena functionary and actor Aadesh Bandekar was also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-cm-asks-cultural-department-to-study-if-shooting-for-tv-shows-can-resume/story-uZDsUomL3E36uGA2lkpj0N.html
23-05-2020||City||Maharashtra government borrowed ₹9,000 crore to pay salaries, pension||With the drastic fall in tax revenue collections amid the pandemic and lockdown, the state government in April had to borrow ₹9,000 crore from the market for its fixed expenditure such as salaries. The state is expected to borrow the same amount in May too.The state needs ₹20,000 crore to pay salaries, pension to its employees, interest on loans, establishment cost and incidental expenditure such as on Covid-19. The lockdown was announced in the last week of March. Against the mandatory recurring expenses of ₹20,000 crore a month, the state has been receiving only 45-50% since March. The expected revenue collection in March dropped by ₹26,100 crore, while it was ₹10,150 crore lower than estimated in April. A similar drop is expected in May too.“Against the annual estimated tax revenue of ₹22,500 crore per month, we received ₹10,261 crore in April and expect ₹11,000 crore in May. The outstanding from the Centre towards the GST compensation is ₹5,040 crore for the past four months and ₹1,280 crore from the tax devolution for April is yet to be received. This forced us to borrow more from the open market last month. The trend is expected to continue for the next three to four months, even if the lockdown is lifted,” said an official from Mantralaya.The official said the annual budgetary estimate for borrowing was ₹56,000 crore, mainly for development works, but the pandemic has forced them to borrow even for salaries and other recurring expenditure.The state has already initiated a cut of 67% on spending on development and social schemes worth about ₹70,000 crore. “There is a huge pendency of GST payback, devolution of Central taxes and grants from the Centre. We have been demanding a package, including the advance of the GST compensation since Maharashtra is the highest tax-paying state. In the absence of adequate revenue receipts, we are ought to tap other sources to meet the mandatory expenditure,” said Shambhuraj Desai, minister of state for finance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-government-borrowed-9-000-crore-to-pay-salaries-pension/story-fEHJSo3Tpdyfv46SGN7N2L.html
23-05-2020||City||Shiv Sena attends Opposition meet called by Congress chief||Mumbai: For the first time after it parted ways with its former ally, the Bharatiya Janata Party, the Shiv Sena on Friday attended a meeting with leaders of national Opposition party, called by the interim president of Congress party, Sonia Gandhi, through video-conferencing. Sena was represented by party chief and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, in what is considered to be a significant development for the party. A Sena functionary said that Thackeray maintained a balance, as neither slammed the Centre nor did he speak in favour of the Opposition parties. According to a senior Shiv Sena leader, the CM spoke about the state government’s plan to tackle Covid-19 and also took up the migrants’ issue.“Uddhav ji spoke on the measures taken by the Maharashtra government to control the spread of coronavirus. He also spoke about the issue of migrants and the inconvenience they faced with regards to transportation. Apart from this, he also spoke on retrieving the Goods and Services Tax (GST) refund,” the leader, who did not wish to be named, said.After presenting his points, Thackeray later excused himself citing prior engagements.Earlier in January, the Sena had skipped the all-party meet called by Gandhi over the political situation in the country in the wake of the violence in Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) and the protests over the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA). Party leaders later clarified that it was due to a “miscommunication”. Two days later, Thackeray’s son Aaditya, who is now a cabinet minister in the Maharashtra government, met Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in New Delhi, which was later termed as a “courtesy” meet.Meanwhile Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar, who had also participated in Friday’s meeting from Mumbai, also said that the Opposition parties are of the view that this is not the time for showing one-upmanship or indulging in politics for personal political gain. This is the time for a collective endeavour to bring India out of this crisis and that’s what the people of India need and demand for, the NCP supremo said.Meanwhile, the Opposition parties have decided to appeal to the Prime Minister Narendra Modi to engage with all political parties, Pawar said.“We have decided to appeal to the @PMOIndia to immediately reach out to, and engage in a dialogue with all political parties in a systematic manner, listen seriously to the suggestions that we have to refrain from using the crisis for personal political gain, activate Parliamentary institutions like standing committees and be genuine in helping the states financially and otherwise,” Pawar said in a series of tweets.“The like-minded political parties are collectively going to raise a 10-point demand to the central government to implement immediately,” Pawar added.The veteran leader also made a few suggestions in the meeting. He said that the state governments are relaxing the conditions of lockdown but factories are not in a position to resume work as workers have migrated to their respective villages. “We need to strategize to bring them [migrant labourers] back. New policies to encourage industrial growth should be incorporated to attract new investment in the states, increase imports, exports and inland shipping, and consultations should be held with industrialists, entrepreneurs and experts,” the veteran leader said.The former Union minister further suggested that right steps need to be taken to gradually restore road transport within the states and for the resumption of air and rail services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shiv-sena-attends-opposition-meet-called-by-congress-chief/story-EGqDIbY4HpY34ky9rxwxKJ.html
23-05-2020||City||Army gives final salute to its hero Major Gurdial Singh Jallanwalia||The mortal remains of Major Gurdial Singh Jallanwalia (retd), one of the oldest war veterans in the country who passed away at the age of 102, was consigned to flames on Friday.While politicians and bureaucrates forgot to pay homage, the army’s top command did not fail to salute it’s hero.Wreaths were laid on behalf of chief of the army staff, General Manoj Mukund Naravane, director general artillery, general officer commanding-in-chief of Army Training Command, Shimla, XI Corps Commander general officer commanding and station commander Brig Manesh Arora.His son Harmanderjeet said no one from the administration or the government called the family to pay their respects. Major Jallanwalia, who was to turn 103 in August, was born on August 21, 1917. He had passed out from the Royal Indian Military School, Jalandhar, and joined the Mountain Artillery Training Centre in June 1935. After completing his training, he was posted with the 14 Rajputana Mountain Battery at Abbottabad (now in Pakistan) and transferred to a Survey Troop at Campbellpur (also in Pakistan) in 1940.Jallanwalia had participated in four battles, including World War II. During the second world war in 1944-1945, he was posted in Burma (now Myanmar) and was shot on the lower abdomen by a Japanese soldier. But somehow, the soldier could not fire a second shot and Jallanwalia’s fellow soldier was quick to shoot the enemy.In 1947 and 1948, Jallanwalia led a battle in Jammu and Kashmir region and during the 1965 war, he was posted in Amritsar.After Independence, Jallanwalia participated in operations to check Pakistani infiltration in the Nowshera Sector in 1948. In the 1965 Indo-Pakistan war, he served as a counter-bombardment officer with XI Corps in the Amritsar-Lahore Sector.He finally hung up his boots in 1967. His two sons – Harmanderjeet Singh and Harjinderjeet Singh – served the Indian Army and Indian Air Force, respectively, and were part of the 1999 Kargil conflict.His grandson is also an Army officer. Major Jallanwalia’s father, Risaldaar Duleep Singh, had fought with the erstwhile British India Army in Mesopotamia during World War I.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/army-gives-final-salute-to-its-hero-major-gurdial-singh-jallanwalia/story-adk1gx1sFG0CPXkDFIqhxK.html
23-05-2020||City||Kalyan-Dombivli civic chief orders probe after Covid patient made to walk||A day after a 26-year-old Covid patient complained that he had to walk 3km to reach Shastrinagar civic hospital in Dombivli, the Kalyan-Dombivli municipal commissioner Vijay Suryavanshi has ordered a probe into the incident.The patient had alleged that the hospital staff asked him to come on his own as there was no ambulance available. The hospital had denied that they asked him to come walking.On Friday, Suryavanshi took note of the incident and has asked officials to probe.“Yesterday, I saw a video of a Covid patient walking to the hospital. He works in a hospital in Mumbai. He has complained that he called up the hospital, but was not provided with an ambulance. I have asked the deputy commissioner to investigate into the matter and take action,” said Suryavanshi.He said that the civic body has a system to track ambulances on road.“Whenever someone tests positive, the nearest ambulance is made available for the patient. The patient should have waited for the ambulance. Till now, we had not received any complaint about ambulance not being available,” said Suryavanshi.After the patient’s complaint on Thursday, Suhasini Badekar, chief medical officer of Shastrinagar civic hospital, had denied the allegations, saying the hospital staff did not ask him to walk to the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kalyan-dombivli-civic-chief-orders-probe-after-covid-patient-made-to-walk/story-sSYW97A91OWAGi0dGeNBzM.html
23-05-2020||City||Maharashtra government yet to decide on domestic flight operations from state||Even as the Centre has announced to commence the operations of the domestic flights from Monday, the Maharashtra government is struggling to take a call over allowing the operations in the state. The state government, in its notification which has come into effect from Friday, had prohibited airline and train services till May 31. The state may clarify over the matter by Saturday and issue a revised notification on it.“No final decision has been taken yet, but a section of the officials are in favour of allowing the operations. We will also have to take a call on keeping the passengers under quarantine on their arrival,” said an official on the condition of anonymity.Meanwhile, until Friday, 2,423 Indians who were stranded abroad owing to the lockdown in various countries, landed in Mumbai on 17 international flights as a part of the Vande Bharat initiative. Of these, 906 are Mumbai residents, while 1,139 from other parts of the state and 378 from other states. There will be 13 more flights that will land in Mumbai between Friday and June 7. “The Mumbai residents are being quarantined in various hotels across the city, while those from the other parts of the state have been sent to their respective districts. The residents of other state are quarantined in Mumbai until further arrangements and permissions from their states to send them to the respective states,” said an official from Mantralaya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-government-yet-to-decide-on-domestic-flight-operations-from-state/story-O9BUPOh7A1e8vLvNoPCv6L.html
23-05-2020||Chandigarh||Row over school fees: Private schools of Chandigarh withdraw petition from high court||The private schools on Friday withdrew their petition from the Punjab and Haryana high court that they had filed over the UT administration’s directions barring them from charging fees during the lockdown.The petition was withdrawn after the court observed that since the administration had now allowed them to charge tuition fee, a fresh course of action had arisen, and issues, if any, should be dealt with in a separate petition.President of Independent Schools’ Association HS Mamik said the May 18 order of UT administration on allowing tuition fee only to be charged will also be challenged since the schools were of the view that the UT had no authority to pass such an order.It was on May 13 that the high court had asked UT to consider schools’ plea on withdrawing order of barring them from fee collection amid the lockdown. On May 18, the UT had allowed schools to charge tuition fees but with a rider that no student should be forced.Schools are not satisfied with this order and want to collect other charges too. They raised an argument on this during Friday’s hearing. However, the court asked them to file a fresh plea.There are 77 private schools who have locked horns with the UT administration. The bone of contention between them are two orders from the administration on the fee issue.The March 30 order had directed schools to reschedule the last date of collection of fee and funds for the session 2020-21 to a date at least one month after the reopening of schools. Again on April 7, the UT had asked private schools to not send any messages to parents with regard to deposition of fee.The schools were warned that any violation would lead to withdrawal of recognition. Following this, schools had approached the administration asking it to allow them to collect fees or pay the salaries of staff members. However, the UT in turn asked schools to provide their balance sheets, which most of them did not agree to. Amid the standoff, teachers and other staff members of the schools were not paid any salaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/private-schools-of-chandigarh-withdraw-petition-from-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-over-issue-of-fee-collection-during-lockdown/story-xpHcnAof9OIxluNvGBLBYK.html
23-05-2020||City||SFI to protest against govt’s decision of imposing 18% GST on various fees||Students Federation of India (SFI) has opposed the state government’s decision of imposing 18% Goods and Services Tax (GST) on affiliation, inspection, and continuation fees given by colleges to university from the new session and has demanded to take back its decision.The students federation has threatened to stage a statewide protest on May 23.SFI said that this move will result in a hike in college fees and as a result, thousands of students will be deprived of higher education because of financial constraints.SFI has demanded that online education should be improved and admission fees of students seeking admission in the university should be waived off. Apart from this, SFI has demanded the state government to construct a sanitisation tunnel at every educational institution, restore all types of scholarships, waive off fees of the last three months of all students and pay hostel charges and room rents of students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sfi-to-protest-against-govt-s-decision-of-imposing-18-gst-on-various-fees/story-vqo28MnSGEqpoTzzEcn1OO.html
23-05-2020||City||J&K principal secy reviews Chenab Valley Power Projects||JAMMU: Rohit Kansal, principal secretary, power development, inspected Chenab Valley Power Projects (P) Limited corporate office, Jammu on Friday.Principal secretary was shown the layout and major components of 1000MW Pakal Dul and 624 MW Kiru hydroelectric projects.Present status of construction works of Pakal Dul, Kiru and Kwar hydroelectric projects were also explained to Kansal through a detailed presentation. Kansal was also informed about benefits from the projects to the UT and local people. Kansal advised the management for early completion of the projects and also promised that efforts shall be made for early start of Kwar project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-principal-secy-reviews-chenab-valley-power-projects/story-lXT3cwnHKbyuVFD614qf9O.html
23-05-2020||City||Dubai-returned NRI tests positive in Bathinda||A Dubai-returned NRI tested positive for Covid-19 in Bathinda on Friday.Deputy commissioner B Srinivasan said the 30-year-old patient was in a state-run quarantine facility since his return to the city on Wednesday. The patient is asymptomatic, said the DC.Presently, Bathinda has only one active case of Covid-19.Earlier in the day, two coronavirus patients were discharged from hospital after getting cured of the disease, said the DC.The two were the last of 43 cases till Friday afternoon who all were cured. Meanwhile, seven coronavirus positive patients were discharged from hospital in Muktsar on Friday.An official spokesperson of Muktsar district administration said there were 66 patients and all of them have been cured and discharged.6 RPF PERSONNEL AMONG 7 TEST POSITIVE IN LUDHIANASix more Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel tested positive of Covid-19 in Ludhiana on Friday. With this, a total of 55 RPF personnel have been infected in the virus so far. Besides, a 28-year-woman also tested positive for the virus. The woman, a resident of Delhi, visited the city on May 18.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said that none of the infected patient was related to Ludhiana.Deputy commissioner Pradeep Agrawal said Ludhiana has 178 positive cases. Eighty patients are of other districts/states. He said 131 patients have been cured to date and seven have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dubai-returned-nri-tests-positive-in-bathinda/story-gyFUjaPmAiCccubJ0562GN.html
23-05-2020||Mumbai||Bombay high court asks PMLA court to pass orders on ED’s plaint against ex-Yes Bank chief||The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday directed the special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court to pass appropriate orders on the prosecution complaint lodged by the enforcement directorate (ED) against Rana Kapoor, former chief executive officer (CEO) of YES Bank.Justice SK Shinde requested the special court to pre-pone the scheduled date in the matter to May 23, peruse the prosecution complaint and pass an appropriate order on it.The directive came following a plea filed by ED, after the agency moved HC, challenging the May 6 order of the special court to handover a copy of the prosecution complaint along with its annexures to Kapoor. ED’s counsel Hiten Venegaonkar submitted that the special court did not take cognisance of its prosecution complaint on May 6 and it could not have ordered the agency to give the documents to the accused without first taking cognisance of their complaint.Kapoor also moved HC seeking a declaration that his detention in custody from May 6 onwards was illegal, in as much as, the special court could not have remanded him to custody, without first taking cognisance of the prosecution complaint.In pursuance of the first information report (FIR) registered by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on March 7, ED registered an Enforcement Case Information Report (ECIR) the next day against Kapoor and others and started investigations under PMLA.Accordingly, ED arrested Kapoor on March 8 and produced him before the special PMLA court. He was initially remanded to ED’s custody till March 11 and thereafter sent to judicial custody.The YES Bank founder is accused of misusing his position as the bank’s CEO for obtaining undue benefits. He allegedly entered into a criminal conspiracy with the Dewan Housing Finance Limited (DHFL) promoters Dheeraj and Kapil Wadhawan for extending financial assistance to DHFL through YES Bank in return for “substantial undue benefits” to himself and his family members through companies held by them. He allegedly received kickbacks worth ₹600 crore from the Wadhawan brothers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-high-court-asks-pmla-court-to-pass-orders-on-ed-s-plaint-against-ex-yes-bank-chief/story-kOCzdVI2eq3wurxlmNz67K.html
23-05-2020||City||With 40 fresh infections, J&K tally reaches 1489||Forty more persons were tested positive for Covid-19 in Jammu and Kashmir on Friday, taking the tally in the Union Territory to 1489.Officials said that 33 new positive cases were reported in Kashmir division, while seven were tested positive in Jammu division.“ In the J&K, 40 new positive cases have been reported since our update yesterday (Thursday) – seven from Jammu and 33 from Kashmir,” a government statement said.So far 20 persons – 18 in Kashmir division and two in Jammu division – have died in J&K of the disease. In the 10 districts of Kashmir division, fresh cases were reported in all except Ganderbal district, taking the total tally in the division to 1,271.A jump of 18 cases was recorded in Shopian district, while there were single digit jumps in eight other districts in the Valley.Of the fresh cases in Kashmir, seven tested positive of the 756 samples tested at CD Hospital, said nodal officer Covid, government medical college, Srinagar, Dr Salim Khan.In Jammu division, the cases were recorded in Sambha, Rajouri and Poonch districts, taking the tally to 218 there.“36 more patients have recovered and were discharged from different hospitals - one from Jammu and 35 in Kashmir,” the official statement read.So far 720 out of the total 1489 people have recovered from the disease, which means a recovery rate of 48 per cent. Of the recovered , 650 are in Kashmir and 70 in Jammu division.At present, active cases in Kashmir stand at 603 and 146 in Jammu.Till date, 1.28 lakh people in contact with suspected cases have been put under surveillance — 32,077 in home quarantine, 73 in hospital quarantine and 25,132 under home surveillance. Besides these, 70,466 people have completed their 28-day surveillance period.On Thursday, two corona positive women had died at two Kashmir hospitals, while 59 persons, including 21 police personnel and a doctor, had tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-40-fresh-infections-j-k-tally-reaches-1489/story-RTmJNMWzdFnbTScE7YQ88N.html
23-05-2020||City||Devotees offer more wheat to Golden Temple langa||“We have never received such a large quantity of wheat crop earlier from the villagers during the rabi season at Sri Guru Ram Das Langar (community kitchen of Golden Temple) which is witnessing huge heaps of wheat bags offered by the sangat (community) from various parts of Punjab, with the grace of Guru Sahib”. This was observation of one of the regular volunteers who serves the devotees in the langar, considered as the largest community kitchen in the world offering free food round-the-clock daily to the needy people. Amid Covid-19 pandemic when many people have become jobless due to the lockdown, the Golden Temple langar has been feeding a large number of people, including stranded migrant workers.On the other hand, collection of money offered by devotees has witnessed a drastic dip due to lockdown when very few devotees are able to pay obeisance at the holiest Sikh shrine. The dip in collection had worried the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) as a sizeable portion of it is spent on serving langar (free food). However, the unprecedented response given by the devotees in the form of wheat and other grocery items have lessened the SGPC’s worries.“Ever since the harvesting season has ended, tractor-trailers, trucks and other vehicles, loaded with langar items, including wheat, are reaching the kitchen daily from the villages in large numbers,” said Sukhbir Singh, manager of the community kitchen.“Wheat is the most consumed food item in the langar. Last year, around 34,000 quintal wheat flour was consumed in the langar and quantity of wheat grains offered by the sangat during the harvesting season last year was 13,000 quintals. However, nearly 26,000 quintal wheat has been offered by sangat so far this season. And the arrival is going on yet,” said SGPC chief secretary Roop Singh.“Guru Ka Langar is run with the cooperation of sangat. As community kitchens of all gurdwaras are feeding the needy during the lockdown, the sangat is very enthusiastic to contribute to the service of humanity,” he added.Kulbir Singh, granthi of a gurdwara in Dhadiala village of Hoshiarpur, who along with villagers came with 33 quintal wheat, said “In my living memory, residents of my village never brought so much wheat to the Golden Temple. Actually, some youths of my village asked all farmers to devote at least one wheat bag in view of the pandemic”.Captain Tarlok Singh (retd) of village Firoz Singh Wala in Kapurthala district and residents of Chak Allah Baksh village of Mukerian sub-division of Hoshiarpur also said that they have brought wheat and other grocery items for the first time. Jaswinder Singh of Chak Allah Baksh said they brought 500 quintal wheat from their village in the past few days. Notably, after the record dip in money collection, SGPC chief Gobind Singh Longowal had appealed to the community to contribute to the kitchen to keep it running without any hassle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/devotees-offer-more-wheat-to-golden-temple-langa/story-uzWytINKTCvDekKmFyZXmO.html
23-05-2020||Mumbai||3rd Mumbai doctor dies of Covid; wife says took 5 hrs to get bed||A general physician (GP) from Chembur died of Covid-19 on Thursday. He is the third doctor to die of the infection in the city and the second from the M ward, which is one of the red zones in the city. The case has highlighted the urgent need for a policy that ensures the safety of doctors practicing in containment zones. His wife, who is also a doctor, said that when the GP was in serious need of hospitalisation, the couple received no help from the helpline run by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). On May 11, the GP, who ran a clinic in Chembur, developed a mild fever. He immediately shut down his clinic. After a blood test indicated the presence of the virus that causes Covid-19, he sent his swab samples to test for Covid-19 on May 14.By the afternoon of May 15, the results hadn’t come in, but the GP had developed weakness and his oxygen saturation was below 88%. Other doctor friends recommended hospitalisation. According to his wife, the couple struggled from 3pm to 8pm to get him admitted. The BMC-run helpline (1916) was of no help. “First, they said there was one bed in Nair Hospital. When I agreed to admit him there, another attendant informed us there was no bed. They couldn’t give us any bed in Mumbai,” said his wife. The couple also inquired with private hospitals, but to no avail. Ultimately, another doctor arranged for a bed in SRV Hospital. The next obstacle was finding an ambulance, which wasn’t immediately available. “It was a horrible experience. Despite being a doctor, I never thought that I would face this situation. I had read about unavailability of beds in hospitals but until you experience it, you don’t understand that it is real,” said his wife. When they were finally able to admit the GP on May 15, he was rushed to the intensive care unit. He succumbed to the infection on Thursday, at around 7.30pm. His wife remembered how he had insisted on keeping his clinic open as long as it was safe to do so. “He would say, ‘It is our duty...we can’t increase the burden on the corporation,” said his wife. “I would often tease him saying that because of him, I would get infected but never did I know that the same virus would kill my husband,” she said. He is survived by his wife and his mother, who have quarantined themselves at home, and a son who lives in the United States of America. Other doctors say this case highlights the challenges faced by medical professionals during the pandemic. Dr Amit Thadhani, a surgeon and a friend of the deceased doctor, said GPs from small clinics should not be forced to practice if the conditions in their clinics make them vulnerable to the infection. “BMC is threatening the doctors that if they don’t practice, their license will be cancelled. But to practice in the hotspots, they require more precautions. It is extremely precarious to work in PPE and dispose of them properly in small clinics,” he said. Dr Ninad Salunke of the non-governmental organisation Apnalaya said, “It is essential for the doctors practising in these red zones to take prophylaxis drugs and focus more on their immunity. Also, the corporation needs to come up with a policy for doctors in containment zones to ensure their safety.”Despite repeated tries, Mahesh Narvekar, chief officer, disaster management cell, BMC, could not be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/3rd-mumbai-doctor-dies-of-covid-wife-says-took-5-hrs-to-get-bed/story-SHtn0HJBnRqqKang1w2xdM.html
23-05-2020||Mumbai||Shortage of hydroxychloroquine in city: Chemists, pvt hospitals||The city is facing a shortage of hydroxychloroquine (HCQ), a drug used for prevention (prophylaxis) as well as treatment of Covid-19, according to medical experts at private hospitals and chemists. The scarcity is also affecting patients suffering from arthritis and lupus, as the medicine is used to treat the diseases.While there is no medicine to treat Covid-19, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has recommended HCQ as a preventative drug for healthcare workers. “We don’t have HCQ. When we get patients, we have to hunt for the drug to administer it. The government should ensure that private hospitals have adequate amount of HCQ for its patients,” said Dr Deepak Baid, president of Association of Medical Consultant (AMC). HCQ is a less toxic derivative of chloroquine, a drug used in treatment of malaria. With the rising demand and government buying bulk, arthritis and lupus patients are forced to do the rounds of pharmacies across Mumbai. “I have medicines for three days. My daughter has been trying to procure the drug for four days, but can’t find it. We need the medicine as it has anti-inflammatory properties and it provides relief,” said a 57-year-old woman from Borivli who suffers from arthritis. Her family members even visited government hospitals in search of the drug. With growing awareness about use of HCQ in treatment of Covid, people have been trying to stock up on it using fake prescriptions or through black markets. “As the government has imposed restrictions on the sale of HCQ, people are getting desperate. Many chemists are selling it without bills, at a higher rate. Many suppliers have hoarded the drugs to increase the price,” said Abhay Pandey, national president, All Food and Drug Licence Holder Foundation (AFDLHF).The Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) held a meeting with the manufacturers of HCQ instructing them to increase the supply. “On Thursday, we asked the manufacturers to increase the production,” said JN Mantri, joint commissioner of Maharashtra FDA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/shortage-of-hydroxychloroquine-in-city-chemists-pvt-hospitals/story-3q2cRflVWTNBMh0IdbyKpI.html
23-05-2020||Mumbai||Liquor home delivery allowed in Mumbai, but conditions apply||Home delivery of liquor in sealed bottles will be allowed in Mumbai from Saturday, but with certain riders. Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) commissioner Iqbal Chahal, who issued a circular to the effect on Friday, said the service will not be available in containment zones, people ordering liquor will need permits issued by the excise department and no shop will be allowed to sell over the counter. Wine shop owners, however, said immediate delivery from Saturday seems difficult. “Delivery services will require nod from the collector’s office, including the excise department. We may be able to deliver only from Sunday or Monday,” said a wine shop owner, who did not want to be named.The circular, which comes five days after the state government allowed home delivery of liquor in red zones, states that the delivery can happen even through e-commerce and online platforms.However, shop owners, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said they would prefer to deliver on their own rather than go through e-commerce and online platforms. The owners said they fear entry of these platforms in the liquor delivery space and that could harm their business in the future.Maharashtra consumes around 86 crore litres of liquor every year, which works out to daily consumption of around 24 lakh litres.The state government had earlier allowed opening of non-essential shops, including those selling liquor, but it resulted in crowding outside wine shops in Mumbai. The civic body then on May 5 ordered all shops selling non-essential goods to shut. The then civic chief Praveen Pardeshi had issued the order citing inputs from police and ward officials and social media posts. He had said “it has been impossible to maintain social distancing and there were few instances of law-and-order situation arising out of crowds gathering at one place”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/liquor-home-delivery-allowed-in-mumbai-but-conditions-apply/story-exrdU5IV9QfwT5Z8t65YmN.html
23-05-2020||City||No Bathinda-Delhi route in 1st phase of flight resumption||Flights to Delhi from the city will not resume on May 25, as this is not on the list of routes granted clearance by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA). The last flight on the route operated on March 26. “There is no confirmation when air connectivity of the Malwa region of Punjab with the national capital will commence,” Bathinda airport director Varinder Singh said. He added that once the flights that Alliance Air, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Air India, operates resume, there will be a change in timing with the days remaining the same as Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. The airport director added that connectivity on the Bathinda-Jammu route will continue to be suspended indefinitely. The route has been non-operational since October 27. An official added, “The average occupancy on the Jammu route was 70%, which was not a fair profit-making proposition. As a cost-cutting measure, it was proposed that a single 70-seater ATR-72 plane operating between Jammu and Delhi may make a brief layover at the Bathinda airport. It was planned to use a single aircraft to cover three destinations — Delhi, Bathinda and Jammu. This proposal was shelved last year and there is no reference to a flight to Jammu in the summer schedule.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-bathinda-delhi-route-in-1st-phase-of-flight-resumption/story-GtfMsr7OatsuNbkVoMWx2L.html
23-05-2020||City||Kalyan records 57 new Covid cases, one death||Kalyan-Dombivli recorded 57 new Covid cases on Friday and one death, taking the death toll to 18. The total positive cases in Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) are 699.This is the highest number of positive cases reported in Kalyan Dombivli in 24 hours. On Thursday, KDMC had recorded 48 new cases.Five children are among the new cases recorded on Friday.A 43-year-old woman from Dombivli was admitted to a private hospital on May 8. “She was discharged on May 16. The next day, she had chest pain and was taken to another private hospital where she was tested for Covid. She died on May 20,” said an officer of health department, KDMC, who did not wish to be named.A total of 423 patients are being treated in Covid hospitals and quarantine centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kalyan-records-57-new-covid-cases-one-death/story-W7ohdFunvQLt4FJEXSMGuI.html
23-05-2020||Mumbai||2,940 new cases take Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally to 44,582; toll crosses 1,500||Maharashtra and Mumbai recorded the highest single-day rise in Covid-19 cases on Friday, with their tally rising to 44,582 and 27,251 respectively. While the state reported 2,940 cases, there were 1,751 cases recorded in the city. The state’s virus fatalities crossed 1,500, as 63 deaths were reported on Friday, taking the toll to 1,517. Of the fatalities, 27 were in Mumbai, nine in Pune, eight in Jalgaon, five in Solapur, three each in Vasai-Virar and Aurangabad city, two in Satara, and one each in Malegaon, Thane, Kalyan-Dombivli, Ulhasnagar, Panvel and Nagpur.Meanwhile, data from the state Medical Education and Drugs department has revealed that 86.74% of the state’s 39,144 Covid-19 patients are below the age of 60. The department has analysed data till May 20.Of these patients, 3.61% cases are of people up to 10 years; 7.05% are between 11 and 20 years; 21.08% are between 21 and 30 years; 21.44% are between 31 and 40 years, 17.76% are between 41 and 50 years; and 15.80% are between 51 and 60 years.However, highlighting that people in the 50-plus age group are most vulnerable to the disease, the department put the number of fatalities in this age group at 71% of the 998 deaths.State health department officials said measures to isolate and treat people, who are over the age of 60 with comorbidities, have helped keep them from contracting the disease. “In Mumbai and in other hotspots, we have focused our search for people over 60 years as they are vulnerable. We have advised local authorities to isolate these people from densely populated areas,” a health department official, who did not want to be named, said. Maharashtra has clocked more than 2,000 new infections every day for the past six days, recording 14,042 new cases and 382 deaths. The state has witnessed a significant rise in Covid-19 cases since May 6, when it started reporting more than 1,000 cases daily. The health department official, however, said the state has not reached the community transmission stage yet as the growth in cases is not exponential.State health minister Rajesh Tope, meanwhile, interacted with religious leaders and appealed to them to talk to people from their religions and sects about virus facts and measures. Tope, during the meeting held via video conferencing, said people have many misconceptions and fears about coronavirus. These need to be handled through the religious leaders. “Because of misconceptions and fears, people do not come forward despite having symptoms. And due to this, when they go to the doctor, it becomes difficult to treat them. Therefore, religious leaders, social institutions should encourage them to come forward for tests,” Tope said in a statement. State minorities minister Nawab Malik also participated in the meeting, where he made a similar appeal. Tope said there is a stigma attached to testing positive for coronavirus, which is a barrier for early detection in some areas of the state.Meanwhile, more than three lakh migrant labourers from Konkan division alone returned to their home states of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, etc. by Shramik trains. Konkan division includes Thane, Mumbai, Raigad, Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg and Palghar districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2-940-new-cases-take-maharashtra-s-covid-19-tally-to-44-582-toll-crosses-1-500/story-r0EtyOuu8sl4y3xMdtLY2N.html
23-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn changes strategy in Bapu Dham Colony: All residents in building with even one positive case to be tested||Almost a month since the first positive case surfaced in the congested Bapu Dham Colony in Sector 26 here, the UT health department has changed the protocol of Covid-19 testing.So far, 147 people have tested positive in the containment zone that accounts for 67% cases in the city that has confirmed a total of 218 cases.Till now only the family contacts of the positive persons were being tested, while the people living in the same building were only quarantined and tested only after they developed symptoms.However, after fresh cases started surfacing in the area, the UT health department has now changed the strategy and decided to test all residents living in the same building as positive persons. According to a media bulletin issued by the health department, 58 samples were collected on site in the colony by a team from Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16.“We have long felt the need to test all dwellers in a building where even one case has been reported. Usually there are around three floors in one building with a number of families living there,” said UT health secretary Arun Kumar Gupta.Arrangements have been made for those residents who want to go out of the colony and stay in a government facility, he added.Besides turning a school into a Covid care centre for the elderly and patients with other diseases, two more quarantine facilities, one in girls hostel number 8 of Panjab University and another at Government Model School, Raipur Kalan, have been established. The school will have approximately 300 beds, and the facility will be made operational from Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ut-admn-changes-strategy-in-bapu-dham-colony-all-residents-in-building-with-even-one-positive-case-to-be-tested/story-XS8Xqo8W3L1u291lFmE2LL.html
23-05-2020||Mumbai||No ban on Ganesh idols made of PoP this year||The Union environment ministry on Friday withdrew its proposed ban on the use of Plaster of Paris (PoP) for making Ganesh idols in 2020.While environment minister Prakash Javadekar said the decision to defer the ban by one year was taken to help artisans, environmentalists criticised the move, saying PoP was harmful to the environment. “The ban on PoP for the Ganesh idol has been postponed for one year. This will not harm those artisans who have already made their idols this year,” Javadekar tweeted on Friday.On May 13, the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) published guidelines banning the use of PoP, thermocol, and single-use plastic for making idols across India, and encouraging the use of biodegradable and less toxic material. Dyes and toxic chemicals used to colour the idols, too, were proposed to be banned.“Based on submissions from various parts of the country about different festivals, especially Maharashtra, where idol makers have already purchased large quantities of PoP, we have lifted the ban just for this year. The decision was taken considering the Covid-19 crisis and difficult economic situation. Idol makers are directed to avoid the use of chemicals and dyes as much as possible this year,” said a senior official from the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change. “This is a temporary decision, and the ban will be implemented from 2021.”Made from Gypsum, which is heated up to 150°Celsius, PoP contains chemicals such as sulphur, phosphorus and magnesium. It is also used to make casts for broken bones. PoP idols are the cheapest (₹500-₹1,000 for a small household idol) among all material, but remain in the environment for a long time, with potential harm to aquatic life.The umbrella body of Ganesh mandals in the city, Brihanmumbai Sarvajanik Ganeshotsav Samanvay Samiti (BSGSS), had requested the Maharashtra government and the Centre to allow the use of PoP during this year’s festival. “Acquiring large quantities of clay, which is very expensive, will be very difficult for artisans during lockdown. We welcome the Centre’s decision to ensure idol makers are not harmed during this tough period. We have directed mandals to celebrate a simple festival this year,” said Naresh Dahibhavkar, president, BSGSS. “This year, 2.32 lakh large and household idols are slated to be made in Mumbai. Of these, 15% will be eco-friendly, made from clay and paper, while remaining using PoP. About 10% of 2.32 lakh idols have already been made,” said Dahibhavkar.Marine biologists said historically, PoP was never the choice for idol makers. “It has always been clay (shadu) idols not only for Ganeshotsav, but other festivals as well. PoP takes months to break down and dissolve, destroying the marine ecosystem. Considering the Covid-19 pandemic, it is our duty to be more sensitive to the environment. Lifting the ban is a bad idea,” said Vinay Deshmukh, marine biologist and former scientist, Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI).Environmentalists pointed out that the CPCB had revised its guidelines after 10 years based on an order passed by the Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court (HC) discouraging the use of PoP. “The Centre does not have the authority to override the HC’s decision, which was in the interest of the environment. Historically, the size of the idol (during Lokmanya Tilak’s time when the festival was first celebrated in the current form) was not more than nine inches. The priority of the ministry should be the opposite of the decisions it is currently taking,” said Anand Pendharkar, wildlife biologist, Sprouts Environment Trust.USE OF PoP IN MUMBAI DURING GANESHOTSAVAn average of 11,000 large (sarvajanik) idols and 1.6 lakh household idols are made every year using PoPThe use of thermocol and plastic was disallowed by the umbrella body of Ganesh mandals last year. An average of 75 large idols and 40,000 household idols are made using clay, while 250 paper idols are made annually during the 11-day Ganeshotsav festival. Lalbaugcha Raja, Mumbai Cha Raja Ganesh Galli, Andhericharaja, Fortcha Icchapurti and many other popular idols have been using PoP annually for almost a decade.Last year, 2.11 lakh idols were immersed across 129 spots in Mumbai. The figure was 2.03 lakh in 2018, 1.92 lakh in 2017, and 2.09 lakh in 2016. The percentage of eco-friendly idols increase from 2% to 5% over four years with a maximum increase in paper idols being adopted by mandals.(Source: Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation, Brihanmumbai Sarvajanik Ganeshotsav Samanvay Samiti)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/no-ban-on-ganesh-idols-made-of-pop-this-year/story-3ENDqPtOkH8ij29fhhyUMJ.html
23-05-2020||Mumbai||State asks district banks to approve fresh loans for defaulting farmers under waiver scheme||The Maharashtra government is unable to waive off loan of over 11 lakh farmers under its loan waiver scheme and has asked the banks to provide fresh loans to the farmers who are eligible under the scheme. It has also assured banks that the due loan amount would be paid along with interest in the coming months as it is facing financial crisis due to Covid-19 lockdown.In an order issued on Friday, the state cooperation department has asked all the district central cooperative banks, commercial and other banks to approve fresh farm loans to farmers eligible under the scheme, even if the previous loan amount has not been cleared.“The state government will pay the due loan amount along with interest which can be charged by the banks from April 1, 2020 till the amount is not paid,” states the government resolution (GR) issued by the cooperation department.“We are not in a position to pay pending loan amount to the banks under the scheme as the revenue of the state was stopped completely since the lockdown was imposed from March 23. We need some time and thus have offered this scheme to the banks,” said a cooperation department official. The financial crisis has led the state to declare a 67% cut in its spending for developmental works this financial year in view of the estimated revenue losses of over Rs 40,000 crore in March and April. The government had declared about 32 lakh beneficiaries under the scheme. It had transferred Rs 12,000 crore in the accounts of over 19 lakh farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-asks-district-banks-to-approve-fresh-loans-for-defaulting-farmers-under-waiver-scheme/story-cA1Ks4oqoMtd02ZEepDMEI.html
23-05-2020||Chandigarh||HC allows private schools in Punjab to charge 70% fee||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday allowed private schools in Punjab to charge 70% fee from students for the academic year 2020-2021. The court also allowed schools to charge admission fee in two instalments in six months and further directed that teachers in these schools would have to be paid 70% of their salaries.The high court was hearing a petition from Independent Schools’ Association, Chandigarh, with 78-member schools in Punjab and Chandigarh. The directions have been passed with respect to schools in Punjab.Schools’ counsel Ashish Chopra said fee could be charged quarterly or annually as per schools’ rules and it could have components such as tuition fee, various funds and transport charges etc.The court was told that director school education on May 14 came out with a direction that schools can only charge tuition fee during lockdown and not building, transportation and meals charges. The schools were also directed not to cut salaries of teachers.Schools had told court that both these conditions are contradictory as parents are to be given concession of not depositing the full fee and schools are being directed not to reduce the salary of teachers. He had also demanded that private schools deposit funds to the government under ‘Reserved Fund’, with a total corpus of Rs 77 crore at present. But schools are not being helped by government even for sanitisation, he said. The May 14 order from the government came after complaints of schools asking parents to deposit fee even as state was under curfew due to Covid-19 outbreak. The government counsel had reasoned that schools charge fee under different heads and transportation charges are always separate and this cannot be made a ground to seek changes in the May 14 order.Asking the government to respond to issues raised in the petition, the high court bench of justice Ritu Bahri directed that as an interim measure, admission fee should be paid in two equal instalments in six months and the 70% of the total school fee will be charged from parents. The bench also asked the state counsel to apprise the court on the next date of hearing on June 12 as to how the state could help the private schools with ‘Reserved Fund’. Other issues raised by the schools are about validity of various instructions passed by the state administration from time to time since March with regard to not increasing school fee, deferring collection of school fee in view of Covid-19 outbreak and not sending reminders to parents to pay the fee. The association had also argued that the government order came even as schools had held online classes during the lockdown period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hc-allows-private-schools-in-punjab-to-charge-70-fee/story-W9z1IbZKeUNdzXMmHM851O.html
23-05-2020||Chandigarh||Stop bootlegging by Congressmen: SAD to Jakhar||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Friday asked Punjab Pradesh Congress (PCC) chief Sunil Jakhar not to indulge in a cover-up exercise by talking of imposing prohibition in Punjab and asked him to first stop “black marketing and bootlegging by Congressmen, which had cost a revenue loss of Rs 5,600 to the state treasury”.In a statement, former minister Daljit Singh Cheema said it was shocking that the PCC chief was trying to “wash away the heinous sins of his party with superfluous talk of prohibition which the government could easily implement if it so wished as it has an absolute majority in the Vidhan Sabha”.He said, “Instead of using such diversionary tactics to gloss over the colossal failures of the Congress government, Jakhar should tell why his party men indulged in black marketing of illicit liquor during curfew rather than providing much needed ration to the people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/stop-bootlegging-by-congressmen-sad-to-jakhar/story-EGuodhvwiAvOw6R0ChIQ7M.html
23-05-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt should announce ₹50K-cr package, says BJP||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) versus the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) battle was on full public display on Friday as the former held its Maharashtra Bachao (Save Maharashtra) agitation with party workers across the state. The BJP has also demanded an independent fiscal package worth ₹50,000 crore for farmers, daily wage earners in the state amid Covid-19 pandemic.The Opposition party workers, wearing black masks, unfurled banners slamming the Uddhav Thackeray-led government over its handling of the crisis. Two months after the first coronavirus case was identified in the state, the BJP announced that it would no longer stay quiet and spoke out against the government’s “ineffectual” tackling of the pandemic.As part of the agitation, state BJP unit party workers were seen shouting slogans against the state government and holding placards in videos on social media. The protests were held outside the party workers’ homes and party offices across the state. The protests are seen as a move to roll out a campaign to generate a sentiment against the state government.The Shiv Sena and other ruling parties did not take this lightly and slammed the Opposition for playing politics amidst a full-blown disaster. By late afternoon, the BJP’s Maharashtra Bachao campaign and the state Congress’ Maharashtra Drohi (Maharashtra’s traitors) campaigns were viral on the social media, but the former was lagging behind the latter.“The maximum number of coronavirus cases and maximum deaths are in Maharashtra. The public health system has completely collapsed due to the state government’s failures. For how long can we cooperate with the government. How much can the people tolerate?” asked Devendra Fadnavis, who protested along with his party colleagues outside the state BJP office.A day earlier, Fadnavis had upped the ante targeting Thackeray directly as someone who was new and made “strategic failures” as he lacked “administrative experience”.The former CM has also alleged that the state and the city have reduced testing of patients in a bid to bring down the Covid-19 positive cases. He has alleged that despite having a capacity of conducting 10,000 tests, the BMC was conducting only around 4,500 tests daily.Yuva Sena chief and tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray, in response to BJP’s protest, tweeted, “One political party state unit has set a new low and a new world record — the only party in the world to indulge in politics and in spreading fear, hate and division when the world has forgotten all of it to help each other. This party has forgotten the pandemic.”Re-tweeting another photo where children are wearing black clothes, holding BJP flags and protesting, Thackeray said, “Absolutely shameful, what lust for power politics can make leaders do. Making children stand in the heat, with their masks lowered, not covering their faces for a political protest when we need to keep them safe and indoors.”“Maharashtra Drohi hashtag has become viral across the country because people saw the true picture of the BJP. In the face of such a horrific disaster, only they can think of politics…‘let people die, we want power’, is their mantra,” Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant said. NCP state chief and minister Jayant Patil said, “This [the protest] is truly treachery against the state.’’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-govt-should-announce-50k-cr-package-says-bjp/story-2dh7ocfrs1orzxC7K0hQMM.html
23-05-2020||City||Source of 19 coronavirus cases in Amritsar district still untraced||Amritsar Two days after the Punjab health department began collecting blood samples from people in four vulnerable districts under the ‘Community Transmission Surveillance Programme’ to find if the community transmission stage of Covid-19 has started in the state, there are 19 cases in Amritsar where there is no history of foreign or domestic travel or contact with any covid-19 positive patients.Amritsar has 315 positive cases to date, with 295 cured. There have been five deaths and 15 active patients, as on date. Some of those whose source of infection could not be traced have been discharged. The health department has started the trial in Patiala, Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Gurdaspur districts and Amritsar is not on the list. Amritsar civil surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore said, “To date, the district has reported 19 cases of community transmission whose source of infection are still unclear. These cases were tested for covid-19 in flu corners when they had shown symptoms of the disease. The four cases that came on Thursday are also community transmission, as these patients have no foreign travel history. The patients had not even met any identified coronavirus patient. Their source of infection is untraced.”The four tested positive on Thursday were a 15-year-old girl; a 60-year-old man from Katra Dulo area of the walled city; a 26-year-old man of Dashmesh Nagar and a two-and-a-half-month-old boy. The infant tested positive after his death at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMDH), Amritsar. The civil surgeon added, “Contact tracing of community transmission cases is on. Samples of close contacts of the four patients reported on Thursday have been sent for testing. There could be more community transmission cases in the district or state, who are asymptomatic and do not know that they are infected. Social distancing norms are critical now.” “Of 97 samples tested on Thursday, only four tested positive. On Wednesday, all 100 random samples tested negative. Even as we see a lot of negative reports, cases continue to be reported from the wider community,” said a health official, on the condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/source-of-19-coronavirus-cases-in-amritsar-district-still-untraced/story-G1l3tlpwHVH4z7e5qU3LdL.html
23-05-2020||Mumbai||Local train services must start in phases, say experts||The Covid-19 outbreak may change commute in the city’s most used public transport — the local trains. Local trains, known to be Mumbai’s lifeline, carry more than 80 lakh passengers every day. However, the services have been suspended from March 22 after the increase in the number of Covid-19 cases in the city.On an average, one 12-compartment local train ferries more than 5,000 commuters during normal hours and close to 7,000 during peak hours. Under the circumstances, maintaining social distancing inside local trains seems like a pipe dream. Experts have suggested capacity reduction in trains, having access control, screening passengers, location mapping of passengers, application to track health details of passengers and inspection inside the compartment for crowding as part of the bouquet of solutions to resume local train services. “Local train services should be introduced in phases. It is very crucial to have crowd and access control inside the compartments as well. In the first phase, local train services only for essential workers in the city should resume, and later train services for general public should be resumed but with restrictions,” said transport expert AV Shenoy.Former Central Railway general manager and retired Railway board member Subodh Jain said a protocol for commuting in public transport needs to be put in place.“Mumbai cannot restart until the local trains restart. Protocol for commuting in public transport needs to be decided. Mobile application, screening of passengers or a certificate that the person is fit to commute could be put in place. As the ticket examiner checks tickets inside trains and on stations, the examiners should be the authority. Local trains can be permitted but with identification on who will be allowed to travel,’’ said Jain.Introduction of more buses with social distancing for plying of passengers in the city should be done and then similar implementation should be done in the case of local trains. “We are unlikely to see local trains resuming for another one month. Buses should be initially introduced as the primary mode of transport in the city. School buses should also be brought in to facilitate movement of passengers. After seeing the reaction to social distancing maintained in the buses, train services should be introduced,’’ said transport expert Ashok Datar.Passenger associations have said that after train services are resumed, the government should look into changing office timings. “Local trains play a crucial role in the city’s public transport system. However, overcrowding will lead to spread of the virus rampantly. Changing office timings and allowing people to work from home is the only solution for reducing crowd,” said Subhash Gupta, president, Rail Yatri Parishad.Meanwhile, the Central Railway resumed two pairs of toy train services between Matheran and Aman Lodge railway station on Friday.The trains have been introduced in order to transport goods from Aman Lodge to Matheran. 105 packages of 2,700 kg were transported on Friday. “All safety norms including social distancing, use of mask and sanitisers, and thermal screenings were strictly followed.” said a Central Railway official.Local services for staff involved in Shramik and passenger train operationsRailways have started local train services for its own employees who are involved in the operation of Shramik and passenger trains. The National Railway Mazdoor Union (NRMU) has, however, asked railway authorities to increase local train services in order to maintain social distancing.“Maintaining social distancing is not happening in the current local train operations. A video has been circulating which shows minimum social distancing inside compartments. We have asked railway authorities to start more trains and compel 100% attendance. Railway authorities should also check on who is travelling in trains,” Said Venu Nair, general secretary, NRMU.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/local-train-services-must-start-in-phases-say-experts/story-Y67DRJxQMMmnwYu61bz3QO.html
23-05-2020||City||58-year-old Covid-19 patient dies outside Thane hospital waiting for ICU bed||After waiting for more than two hours outside a hospital in Thane, a 58-year-old Covid patient died before he could get a bed in the ICU.The man, a resident of Shantinagar in Wagale Estate, tested positive on Thursday morning.“My father had fever for the past few days. When it did not subside, we got him tested for Covid as hospitals do not admit patients only for fever,” said his 32-year-old son, who works in a bank.He contacted the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) to check the availability of a bed.“The TMC said they would call them when a bed is available. I called a few hospitals as my father’s condition was worsening. They said they will admit patients only when TMC sends them. Around 9pm, they informed that we will get a bed in Kaushalya Hospital in Panchpakhadi,” he said, adding that they took his father in an autorickshaw and they waiting for an ambulance would again delay admission.The hospital said that the man would need an ICU bed which was not available. So, they waited outside the hospital with the patient on the stretcher. “My father’s condition was worsening. He was outside the hospital on a stretcher. Around 11.30pm, when we checked with the hospital, they asked us to take him to Kalsekar hospital at Mumbra where an ICU bed is available. But, when a doctor checked him, he found that my father had passed away,” said the son.He added that the ordeal did not stop there as the hospital refused to give a death certificate, saying his father had died outside the hospital. “I had to take him to Thane civil hospital to get a death certificate and conduct the funeral following proper protocol, which went on till Friday evening.”“I have written to Thane commissioner of police to take action against the civic officials and hospital authorities who are responsible for my father’s death,” he added.Kaushalya Hospital, in a statement, said, “All beds in the hospital, including in ICU, were full. This was informed to the patient’s family. In spite of this, we tried our best to save him, but the patient died.”RT Kendre, officer on special duty for Covid, said all efforts were made to save the patient.“I got a call around 11.15 on Thursday night about the patient outside Kaushalya Hospital. When I spoke to the patient’s son, I came to know that he had breathlessness and will need an ICU. We informed him that 20 ICU beds are available at Kalsekar Hospital in Mumbra and we were ready to provide him ambulance and also reserved a bed. However, the patient and the local corporator insisted that he be admitted to Kaushalya.”Kendre claimed that he called the doctors in Kaushalya and asked them to admit the patient temporarily and try to save him. “The hospital tried to revive but he died,” he said.This incident comes a day after a 60-year-old man in Thane died as he could not get an ambulance.Local BJP corporator Narayan Pawar has also written to the chief minister about the incident.Pawar said, “TMC has failed to provide timely ambulance and treatment to Covid patients. Two people died due to delay in treatment in the past two days, both on the roads. There is no clarity on the work done by coronavirus cell.”The Maharashtra Navnirman Sena protested outside the civic commissioner’s office on Friday. Avinash Jadhav, the district president of MNS, said, “Patients are dying because of not getting an ambulance and hospital bed on time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/58-year-old-covid-19-patient-dies-outside-thane-hospital-waiting-for-icu-bed/story-M6ipbHEqwVvtWXLAXRprdM.html
23-05-2020||Mumbai||In highest single-day spike, 150 policemen test positive||The number of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai police rose by 150, which is the highest jump in 24 hours, till Friday. “The figure rose from 750 on Thursday afternoon to 900 by Friday evening,” said Naval Bajaj, joint commissioner, (administration), who is also the nodal officer designated by the state government for providing aid to police personnel in the city. Till Friday morning, 898 personnel had tested positive. In this a majority of 157 are from central region (Tardeo-Byculla to Matunga-Ghatkopar till Wadala TT) and 135 from west region (Bandra to Jogeshwari), both regions that are worst affected by Covid-19 in Mumbai. Even south Mumbai has 135 cases of cops testing positive. The east region has 65 cases while the north region has 45 cases. Among the side branches the local arms division is worst affected with 196 cases. About 40 odd cases each from protection and security and from the Mumbai Traffic police have been reported so far and 30 cases from the motor transport department. As many as 3,935 police personnel in Mumbai Police have been quarantined. In this a majority of 3,569 are constables and 366 are officers. About 77 of them were discharged on Friday. In a related development, the Mumbai Police will soon start a fourth Covid care centre (CCC) for their personnel at Vakola, Santacruz (East). Vinoy Choubey, joint commissioner, law and order, confirmed that the CCC will be made operational to meet the rising demands of beds for police personnel. “We have four buildings in police colony at Kole Kalyan, Santacruz (East) of which we have converted one into a CCC. It’s operational with 300 beds. We are converting another building at the premises into a Covid-19 centre, with around 300 beds. It will be operational in a few days. If needed we will convert the remaining two buildings into CCC too,” said Choubey.A 50-bed CCC is being set up at Mumbai Police gymkhana at Marine Lines and another with 250 beds is operational at Marol. Two IPS officers of additional commissioner rank and one deputy commissioner have been home quarantined after some personnel reporting to them tested positive for Covid-19. 11th death in Mumbai Police A 55-year-old head constable posted at Vileparle police station died of Covid-19 during treatment at a Jogeshwari hospital on Thursday. This is the 11th death of personnel of Mumbai Police.The constable was tested positive on May 9 and was admitted to Kole Kalyan CCC for police. On May 12, he was shifted to HBT Trauma Care Hospital in Jogeshwari. He succumbed to the disease around 9pm on Thursday. The constable was on leave and was staying with his family in Marol after cops aged 55 years and above were asked to stay home as they are at a higher risk of contracting the disease.12 from Oshiwara police test positive Twelve police officers from Oshiwara police station tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday, taking the number of infected Mumbai Police personnel to 762. Till Friday afternoon, 11 police personnel from the city had died due to the novel coronavirus disease.Dayanand Bangar, senior police inspector at Oshiwara police station, confirmed the development and said that 14 policemen who were in touch with the 12 have been sent to home quarantine, while those found positive which includes four officers and eight constables have been admitted to isolation centres at Andheri (East) and Worli.The staff who have tested positive are from the detection unit of the police station who were deployed for crowd control duties near containment zones and later to help migrant workers. 3 lakh migrants sent back, 2.5 lakh on waiting listThree lakh migrants, mostly labourers, registered with Mumbai Police were sent back to their home states via trains, buses and cars, said Pranaya Ashok, deputy commissioner of police (operations) and Mumbai Police spokesperson. About 2.5 lakh are still on the waiting list, he added. 363 people booked, 248 arrested for lockdown violations About 102 first information reports (FIRs) were registered by the Mumbai Police against 363 people for lockdown violations on Thursday. Mumbai Police arrested 248 people. A majority of FIRs (54) were against people gathering in one place, 26 for not wearing masks, 16 for use of vehicles violating lockdown rules and the remaining were against shops. A maximum of 32 FIRs was registered in western suburbs, followed by 30 in south Mumbai, 19 in eastern suburbs, 17 in central suburbs and four in the northern region. 1,666 cops positive in state, 17 deadA total of 1,666 police personnel in the state police have contracted Covid-19 so far. The number of personnel who succumbed to the novel coronavirus disease is 17, including 11 (10 constables/ASI and one police officer) from Mumbai Police. The remaining six deaths include two from Pune, one each from Solapur, Nashik rural, Thane and one from Mumbai anti-terrorism squad. Out of the 1,666 personnel, 1, 483 are constables and rest are officers. About 1,177 are being treated while 473 have recovered, of which 250 are from Mumbai.(With inputs from Jayprakash S Naidu)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/in-highest-single-day-spike-150-policemen-test-positive/story-AeLW6KXhBgUvHNRFoGOsQJ.html
23-05-2020||Lucknow||Muslims offer ‘Juma Alvida’ prayer at home in Agra, Aligarh||Muslims adhered to the lockdown guidelines and offered their prayers for ‘Juma Alwida’ or last Friday of holy Ramzan month by remaining at their homes in Agra and Aligarh.Elaborate security arrangements were made and strict vigil was maintained throughout the day which passed off peacefully in Braj region.Various religious heads and leaders of organisations had appealed in Agra and Aligarh, asking Muslim brethren to offer ‘namaz’ for ‘Juma Alwida’ while remaining at home. Such appeals were made for compliance of guidelines for lockdown which seek prohibition on gatherings during Covid-19 pandemic.It was unusual scene at Jama Masjid in Agra as the gathering on premises of this historical mosque was missing this time. Even in smaller mosques, there were no gathering and those who were present there only offered ‘namaz’ on the last Friday of holy Ramzan month.“We had made an appeal to Muslim community to comply with norms of lockdown, prohibiting mass gathering and as such ‘namaz’ for ‘Juma Alwida’ was offered at their residences,” stated Haji Jameeluddin Qureshi, the all India vice president of Jameet-ul-Quresh.Police were vigilant all through the day and marched through sensitive localities but had nothing much to do as no gathering was made at mosques and mostly the prayers were offered on this auspicious day within houses.Those offering ‘namaz’ at mosques were Imam and ‘khadim’ at these mosques and even the ‘ulema’ remained in houses for offering namaz.The Shahar Mufti in Aligarh, Mohammad Khalid Hameed too has made similar appeal to offer ‘namaz’ at houses in Aligarh. There were united voices in support as nation was fighting with coronavirus pandemic.Local intelligence units were active and special drives were conducted to ensure cleanliness beside proper water supply in localities having mixed population. Cops were found convincing religious heads to play constructive role in fight against coronavirus pandemic and had its positive impact.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/muslims-offer-juma-alvida-prayer-at-home-in-agra-aligarh/story-tZciFnZKAkFjFuiWRoj9GP.html
23-05-2020||City||Sukhbir seeks CBI probe into ‘multi-thousand crore scam’ in Centre-sent relief material||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal demanded a CBI probe into the alleged multi-thousand crore scam in Centre-sent food material as relief to Punjab. He said that a large amount of wheat and pulses sent by Centre for 1.4 crore Punjabis found its way to the open market via Congress leaders.Addressing the media after visiting Malout, Balluana, Abohar, Fazilka, Jalalabad, Guruharsahai and Ferozepur where he flagged off wheat trucks carrying 5,000 quintal wheat to Darbar Sahib in Amritsar, the Sukhbir said he had brought the issue of diversion of central food stock to the notice of Congress leaders in Punjab and PM Modi.Terming this a crime against humanity, Sukhbir said it is shocking that migrants slept hungry in Punjab, while the state allowed diversion of wheat and pulses to Congress leaders who in turn sold the stock in open markets. He demanded a central-level inquiry into the scam. “The magnitude of the fraud is mind-boggling. Congress leaders are responsible for this crime should be brought to book,” he said.He also highlighted how liquor mafia, in league with Congress, has “looted Rs 5,600 crore from the state exchequer.” “The state excise department had suffered huge loss because government allowed distilleries run by Congress leaders and their known to take out truckloads of liquor without paying any excise duty,” he said.He said Congress legislators of Ferozepur were openly indulging in illegal mining and had been given a free rein by the Congress government. He said the legislators were also patronising the drug mafia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sukhbir-seeks-cbi-probe-into-multi-thousand-crore-scam-in-centre-sent-relief-material/story-yh8KxahJ25h01e5veDr1nK.html
23-05-2020||City||‘Faridkot Covid-19 screening facility has capacity of 3,000 tests per day’||With installation of new machines, the TB liquid culture, drug susceptibility testing and virology laboratory of Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital (GGSMCH) in Faridkot becomes country’s first of its kind Covid-19 screening lab with a capacity of 3,000 tests per day, said Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) vice-chancellor Dr Raj Bahadur.State minister for medical research and education, OP Soni, inaugurated the Faridkot lab on Friday. Soni said the state is working extensively to prevent spread of coronavirus and accelerate sapling, testing and treatment of patients.“State-of-the-art labs have been set up at GGSMCH Faridkot, GMC Patiala, and GMC Amritsar to enhance testing capacity of corona patients in state. In these labs, Covid-19 testing is done using hi-tech machinery whereby the staff working in these labs is not at risk of contracting the disease,” he said.The state has purchases three automatic RNA extraction machines for Covid-19 testing, one of which was installed in Faridkot on Friday after which its testing capacity has increased from 400 to 3,000 tests per day.BFUHS V-C said, “The machine cost Rs 1.5 crore. Earlier, 2,000 samples were being sent to private labs for covid testing. Each test cost Rs 3,500, adding up to Rs 70 lakh per day and Rs 21 crore per month. So, setting up this machinery will be economically profitable as well.”BFUHS TO SETUP MORE LABS IN PUNJABTo further increase the testing capacity in Punjab, BFUHS is going to setup more Coivd-19 testing labs in state.The second machine will be installed at GMC Amritsar on Saturday, and the third machine at GMC Patiala on Tuesday. Two new labs will be established in Mohali, and one each in Jalandhar and Ludhiana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/faridkot-covid-19-screening-facility-has-capacity-of-3-000-tests-per-day/story-I210REiep0Ekr4F0zdoY2K.html
23-05-2020||Bangalore||‘Weekly curfew’ to begin in Bengaluru from Saturday night: Police||The ‘weekly curfew’ as part of the phase four of lockdown will start in Bengaluru on Saturday night itself instead of Sunday morning, Bengaluru police commissioner Bhaskar Rao said on Friday.Gearing up for the ‘Janata Curfew’, Rao had a press conference on Friday seeking public cooperation.Chief minister B S Yediyurappa had announced ahead of the fourth phase of the lockdown that every Sunday there will be lockdown across the state as a measure to contain the spread of coronavirus.Rao, however, made it clear that it will start from Saturday itself.“There will be elaborate arrangements to strictly implement the Janata Curfew as the government has directed to make it successful,” Bhaskar Rao said.Warning violators, the Commissioner said they will be dealt with an iron hand and added that anyone found roaming aimlessly would face legal action.“There is scope for purchasing essential commodities such as grocery items, medicines and vegetables. Other than that people should stay indoors,” Bhaskar Rao said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/weekly-curfew-to-begin-in-bengaluru-from-saturday-night-police/story-i1iCTyAoIlWrG0E3efiTVO.html
23-05-2020||City||25 cops deployed along tracks to prevent illegal boarding of Shramik trains in Ludhiana||After illegal boarding of Shramik Special trains by migrants came to light, Ludhiana police on Friday deployed a force along the railway tracks near Gurdwara Dukhniwaran Sahib.As many as 25 police personnel have been deployed along the tracks to keep a check on the migrants.After a train departs from Ludhiana railway station, its speed is slow when it crosses Gurdwara Dukhniwaran Sahib. Due to this, a number of migrants had been boarding the trains illegally, that is, without having tickets and without undergoing medical screening.Sources said there are some insiders in the railways as well as police who were involved in helping the migrants board the trains in an illegal way. “Before train departs from railway station, the migrants are called near the tracks and made to sit behind the wall. When train reaches near the gurdwara, the migrants are given a signal to board the train,” they said.The matter had come to the notice of the senior police officials. The staff was seen asking the migrants travelling in the train to close the doors of the coaches to avoid the entry of people on the way.Assistant commissioner of police, Waryam Singh, said, “With the deployment of 25 personnel, no complaint of illegal boarding was received on Friday.”12 SHRAMIK TRAINS LEFT ON THURSDAYMeanwhile, deputy commissioner Pradeep Agrawal said that so far, more than eight lakh migrants have got registered from Ludhiana to travel back to their home states.“Twelve trains that left from Ludhiana railway station on Friday had 1,600 passengers each. From Saturday, 12 trains will run daily with 1,600 passengers each. Earlier, a train was carrying maximum 1,200 passengers, but now the limit has been increased,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/25-policemen-deployed-along-tracks-to-prevent-illegal-boarding-of-shramik-trains-in-ludhiana/story-Iw66IVXU6EEPfmP6dOetJM.html
23-05-2020||City||Ludhiana: Counter sale of tickets for passenger trains begins||As the Indian Railways opened counter booking for passenger trains, scheduled to start their services from June 1, at least 115 tickets worth Rs 1 lakh were sold from reservation counters of the city railway station on the first day on Friday.As many as eight pairs of trains, including seven non-AC express trains and a Jan Shatabdi train, will be back on tracks from June 1. These trains are among the 200 passenger trains announced by the railway minister and these will connect districts of Punjab to different states across the country. All the eight pairs of trains will originate and terminate at Amritsar railway station.On the first day of the booking, most people visiting the station to buy tickets were migrants eagerly wanting to reach their hometowns.Most of these migrants had got themselves registered on the Punjab helpline portal for Shramik special trains, but so far, they have not received any message about the trains.Ajay Tiwari, a migrant, who was here to reserve seats for himself and his family in a Bihar-bound train, said, “I was working at an export mill. The owner has cleared my balance and paid me salary till March. He has not asked me to join back, so I want to return to my village as it is becoming difficult to survive here. The landlords are also demanding rent and we do not have much to incur all the expenses.” “Earlier, I used to send money to my parents in the village but, during lockdown, I had to ask them to deposit some amount in my account, says Tiwari, who has a family of five, including three children.Tiwari had also applied for a Shramik special train on May 3, but he still hasn’t received an update on that. “I don’t know when my turn will come for the Shramik special train. It is better to buy tickets and board the train starting from June 1,” he added.Another migrant, Shiv Shankar Yadav, residing at Jeewan Nagar, says he has got seats reserved in Saryu Yamuna Express to travel back to Darbhanga. Yadav had also registered for the Shramik train but has not received any intimation so far about the train. He said he has paid Rs 1,200 for three tickets.LIST OF TRAINSThe eight pairs of trains include Amritsar-New Jalpaiguri Karamabhoomi Superfast (02407/08), Amritsar-Kolkata Express (02357/58), Nanded-Amritsar Sachkhand Express (02715/16), Amritsar– Mumbai Central Golden Temple Mail (02904/03), Amritsar–Bandra Terminus Paschim Express (02926/25), Amritsar–Jaynagar Shaheed Express (04673/74), Amritsar–Jaynagar Saryu Yamuna Express (04649/50) and Haridwar-Amritsar Jan Shatabdi Express (02053/54).As per the schedule, Karmabhoomi Superfast will run from Amritsar to New Jalpaiguri from June 5 while from New Jalpaiguri to Amritsar from June 10.Similarly, Shaheed Express will commence from Amritsar on June 2 and from Jaynagar on June 3, Saryu Yamuna Express will start from Amritsar on June 1 and will depart from Jaynagar to Amritsar from 5, Haridwar–Amritsar–Haridwar Jan Shatabdi will commence from June 1.Of these, only three trains will run daily while others will be either weekly or bi-weekly or four days a week.Passengers have been asked to reach the station 90 minutes before the arrival of the train so that authorities can complete all procedures such as temperature screening. Besides, passengers have been asked to carry their own food and water and also observe proper social distancing throughout the journey. They have also been told to follow the guidelines under National Directives for Covid-19 Management, which include wearing a mask.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-sale-of-tickets-at-counters-begins-for-trains-to-commence-from-june-1/story-dnXgquIfHuUKthZmjvGjQL.html
23-05-2020||Delhi||Burglar arrested for raping woman in Jungpura||A 27-year-old law graduate was allegedly sexually assaulted by a burglar who gained entry into her Jungpura house in southeast Delhi last Sunday and even tried to strangulate her. Police said they have arrested the burglar who also has previous criminal involvements. The man has been booked for criminal trespass, attempt to murder and rape, senior officials said.According to the police, the incident took place last Sunday when the woman was alone at home. As narrated by the woman, the man entered her house through a balcony and overpowered her before she could raise alarm, police said.“He then threatened to kill her if she tried to alert neighbours. The woman said the man then sexually assaulted her and even tried to strangulate her. However, fearing to be caught, he hurriedly left the woman and fled the house,” said a senior officer who did not wish to be named. Police said following the woman’s complaint multiple teams were constituted to track the suspect. “Several CCTV footages from the neighbourhood were scanned and the man was finally tracked. Following local intelligence we managed to identify him and he was arrested on Thursday following a raid,” the officer said.Deputy commissioner of police (southeast) RP Meena said a case of criminal trespassing, attempt to murder and rape has been registered against the man who has cases of burglary already registered against him.Ends.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/burglar-arrested-for-raping-woman-in-jungpura/story-y5uGG0ZLEMCcstqzqaTNhL.html
23-05-2020||City||In symbolic protest, parents beg outside Ludhiana DC office for school fee||In a symbolic protest, the members of parents association and revolutionary parents association, Punjab, begged outside the deputy commissioner (DC) office, Ludhiana, seeking funds to pay for their children’s private school fee, on Friday.Over 25 members gathered outside the mini secretariat and also submitted a memorandum to the DC, urging him to ask schools not to charge any fee for the academic session 2020-21.KG Sharma, convener, parents association, Punjab, and Bhagwant Singh, convener, revolutionary parents association, said that the government should declare “no school fees for session 2020-21”.The government should also come up with a special financial package and scheme for online education and its promotion through government institutions without any fee and should pass an order for exemption of all school fees, admission fees and other charges for the entire session, they added.Sharma said, “Owing to the Covid-19 situation, it is very difficult for the general public to meet their day to day household expenses. It will have a drastic effect on the whole financial year.”Yadwinder Kaur, a member of the revolutionary parents association, said, “Parents are receiving messages from private schools to pay the increased tuition fee along with other charges.”“We have come here to request the DC to direct schools to exempt all types of fee for this session. Authorities of private schools are even demanding computer fee from parents. How can they demand computer fees when schools are closed,” she said.“Only a few parents have gathered here today as we wanted to avoid a mass gathering. If the state government doesn’t direct schools to exempt the fee for the entire session, we will protest and go on a hunger strike,” she said. LIP SEEKS FEE WAIVER; ACCUSES PRIVATE SCHOOLS OF LOOTING PARENTSRaising a voice against private schools that are forcing parents to pay school fee pertaining to the lockdown period, the leaders of the Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) submitted a memorandum with the deputy commissioner (DC) Pradeep Agrawal on Friday. LIP district president Baldev Singh said that earlier private schools used to loot the parents by charging building fee and other charges and now they have started asking for fee pertaining to lockdown period. “Every person is struggling to cater to daily needs. How will the parents submit fee for the months of April and May,” questioned Baldev Singh while adding that the state government should waive off the school fee for the lockdown period.Earlier, on May 20, over 100 parents had held a protest outside Merry Mint Public High School, Amar Nagar, alleging that the school authorities had been them asking to pay the tuition and admission fee for April and May.On May 18, the members of the Youth Akali Dal and residents had staged a protest against the state government for asking people to pay electricity bills and school fees during the lockdown in Dugri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/parents-beg-outside-ludhiana-dc-office-for-school-fee/story-TaRzyx3Fn6EXrUbe7uA7uM.html
23-05-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram suspends border checking during rush hour to ease traffic||Gurugram Police on Friday said that the checking of movement passes at Sirhaul border— that connects Gurugram with Delhi — will be suspended daily between 6am and 9am and between 5pm to 8pm to prevent traffic congestion that the stretch has been witnessing ever since private offices were allowed to resume operations earlier this week.Police said stopping and checking every vehicle was resulting in traffic congestion up to Dhaula Kuan in Delhi, which is nearly 12 kilometres away. Hence, they will remove the barricades during these hours to ensure smooth vehicular movement.The district administration, however, reiterated that having movement passes issued through the SARAL portal was still mandatory for crossing the border. Before the lockdown on an average around 2.5 to 3 lakh cars used to run on the Delhi-Gurgaon expressway now. During the lockdown period it has come down to 15,000-20,000, said an official of Millennium City Expressways Private Limited — the concessionaire of the Delhi-Gurgaon expressway.Gurugram police commissioner Muhammad Akil said that vehicular movement has increased and employees have started travelling to their offices in industrial, corporate, and private sectors. “There is no fresh order but we have relaxed the checking due to volume of traffic entering the city during the morning and exiting in the evening. Hundreds of vehicles were piling up as the checking takes at least 40 seconds per vehicle,” he said.Akil said the police still can randomly stop and check any vehicles during the peak hours and the checking will be conducted as usual during the rest of the day — 9am and 5pm.The deployment has also been reduced to 10 police personnel from 25 in one shift after relaxation was given to the daily commuters, said police.Meanwhile, commuters faced long hours of congestion on Friday with many vehicles being denied entry after being thoroughly checked by the police on Friday. A number of people who were trying to cross the border on foot, too, were stopped for lack of valid permissions.Some, however, were lucky and managed to escape the jam. Isha Tyagi, an entrepreneur and a resident of Ardee City, said that she had to visit Delhi on Friday and her request for a pass on the SARAL portal was rejected. She still took a chance and crossed over to Delhi. “There was no checking at the border at 8am and when I asked one of the police officials, he told me that they start checking after 9am. I returned at 11am and could easily sneak back in without getting noticed,” she said.Another commuter, Shyam Yadav, who works in an information technology company in Sector 38, said he had been trying to cross the border unsuccessfully for the last 15 days. On Friday, he took a chance and got lucky. He managed to cross over without any checking. “The police were checking random vehicles and most of them had pasted the pass on their windscreens. The police at the border said that we can cross during the morning hours without any checking, so I have informed my colleagues also,” he said.The district administration, in an order, has only permitted the movement of those involved in essential services, medical and paramedical staff, and paramilitary officials and those who have administration-issued passes to cross over. Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, said that they are maintaining the status quo on travel restrictions now between Gurugram and Delhi.The ministry of home affairs (MHA), last week, had removed all restrictions on interstate travel with the state’s consent The Gurugram district administration, however, chose to continue with the travel restrictions.A senior Delhi traffic police official said, “Since the Delhi government relaxed movement norms and allowed offices to function with full workforce, we have not been issuing any passes for intra city movement. However, the border inspections by Haryana and UP governments have been causing long jams on the Delhi side. This decision of the Gurugram police will ease peak hour rush in Delhi to a great extent.” Border areas like Sirhaul and Dundahera witnessed heavy traffic congestion during office hours starting Monday and the traffic volume is likely to increase in coming days, said police.Vijay Kumar, sub-inspector, deployed at Sirhaul border, said that the movement of vehicles has increased in the past week. “We are checking more than 1,000 passes every day. We remove the barricade when the volume of traffic is high and allow three lanes of traffic to cross. During the day, we have dedicated one lane for four-wheelers and one separate lane for two-wheelers,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-police-sets-timing-for-checking-passes-at-border-allows-free-entry-in-morning-hours/story-mBhsgZX6xPSTWa9SFrLPhJ.html
23-05-2020||Delhi||21 occupants of AIIMS shelter home test positive||At least 21 occupants of a shelter home that houses outstation patients and their attendants who come to the Capital for treatment at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday evening, district officials aware of the developments said.Many of the infected -- including a seven-year-old who has been battling cancer for over two years -- are already suffering from serious diseases and are in need of long-term treatment.The cases emerged after two patients suffering from kidney ailments who were staying at the same Delhi government shelter tested positive on Monday. “The Covid positive reports of the 21 at the shelter, majority of whom are patients of cancer and kidney disease, came on Thursday evening. Following the two kidney patients who were found positive earlier, tests were conducted of 51 occupants,” one of the district officials cited above said on condition of anonymity.He added that all the 21 fresh infections were moved to quarantine facilities at the Lok Nayak Hospital, Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital and AIIMS Jhajjar; at least seven other people from the shelter who have symptoms of the disease, but whose tests results are awaited, have been taken to the Chhatarpur quarantine facility; around 50 others, mostly attendants, have been put under in-situ quarantine at the shelter itself.The Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) shelter home (number 148) located near gate number 5 of AIIMS had over 80 occupants until Thursday.“These patients were living in a rain basera (night shelter)-like place. They have been admitted to various hospitals for treatment. Actually, only those with some comorbid conditions are admitted to hospitals,” said Dr DK Sharma, the medical superintendent of AIIMS.A DUSIB official, who asked not to be named, said the staff has been sanitising the shelter complex, including the common toilets and bathing spaces. “The shelter has a capacity of housing around 300 people. Most of the patients and their families have already left for their home states over the past weeks, so there is enough room for maintaining social distancing. We ensure that patients do not come in close contact with each other,” he said.People staying at the shelter said that it had around 200 occupants until last month but a a large number of occupants left for their native villages over the past few weeks because the AIIMS out-patient department (OPD) was shut from March 24 onwards because of the national lockdown to contain the Covid-19 spread. Only emergency services, as well as some other wings such as cancer and gynaecology, were open with limited staff. The AIIMS administration had earlier this week said that select OPD services are likely to open soon, but have not been reopened yet.The mother of the seven-year-old who has been infected said they had travelled for treatment from Darbhanga in Bihar. “My son has been suffering from a critical disease already, and now he has got this virus. We could not even leave from Delhi -- I don’t know what will happen now and when will they return,” the woman said over the phone. She is in quarantine at the shelter with her two other children.Sandhya Devi, who came for her husband’s treatment for a liver tumour in February from Gopalganj, said they were waiting for his last chemotherapy session scheduled for May 27, after which they had hoped of leaving for home. “The doctor had told us that after the last chemo session, my husband may be fit enough to go back. Now, I don’t know for how long we will have to wait for treatment,” she said. “The occupants at the shelter have been using the common toilet facilities. Though we provide food and other essentials, they have been tired of the long wait to go back home. Since many of them were already battling diseases, the families have been worried of their members contracting the virus,” said Nitesh Kumar, project coordinator, SPYM, an NGO that runs the shelter for the Delhi government.The media advisor to the chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said, “We will examine the matter and directions will be issued to concerned agencies for swift action.”Sunil Kumar Aledia, a social activist who works with homeless people, said: “The government must arrange for proper medical care for these patients because they are already facing trauma because of the diseases and running out of their savings because of the lockdown.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/21-occupants-of-aiims-shelter-home-test-positive-several-already-suffer-from-serious-diseases/story-WBnJcOsvXVBO0iywNOf81K.html
23-05-2020||Delhi||Tenants can delay but have to pay rent, says Delhi HC||Tenants in the Capital are liable to pay rent for the period the city has been under lockdown, the Delhi High Court has held, stating that suspension of rent owed for that period is not permissible. The court, however, said some relaxation in the form of postponement of payments can be granted.A single-judge bench of Justice Pratibha M Singh said tenants cannot invoke the doctrine of suspension of rent on the basis of “a force majeure event as they (the applicants) do not intend to surrender the tenanted premises and continue to occupy it”. Force majeure is a contractual provision allocating the risk of loss, if performance becomes impossible or impracticable, especially as a result of an unanticipated or uncontrolled event.“The tenants’ application for suspension of rent is thus liable to be rejected inasmuch as while invoking the doctrine of suspension of rent on the basis of a force majeure event, it is clear from the submissions made that the tenants do not intend to surrender the tenanted premises. While holding that the suspension of rent is not permissible in these facts, some postponement or relaxation in the schedule of payment can be granted owing to the lockdown,” the court said in a 22-page judgment of May 21, uploaded to the court’s website on May 22.The court was hearing an application that had raised various issues related to the suspension of payment of rent, owing to the national lockdown, and legalities regarding the same. A nationwide lockdown was imposed by the central government from March 25 to curb the spread of Covid-19 disease. The Delhi government had put curbs on citizens’ movement in the city from March 23, owing to Covid-19 cases coming up in the Capital around that time. By March 25, there were 35 confirmed cases of the Sars-Cov-2 (the virus which causes the coronavirus disease) and death caused by it in the city.On March 29, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had appealed to landlords not to force tenants for one or two months to give rent and accept payments in instalments if the tenant is short on money. Later, in April, an order by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority had called for “strict compliance” of directions that landlords will not demand rent from migrant workers and students for a month. It required respective district magistrates to spread awareness about this directive and, in case of non-compliance, take legal action.The latest judgement came on an application filed in a pending plea by the owner of a shoe shop in Khan Market, who had sought suspension of Rs 3.5 lakh monthly rent, while also challenging the eviction over non-payment.Deciding on the factor, Justice Singh said: “The fundamental principle would be that if the contract contains a clause providing for some sort of waiver or suspension of rent, only then the tenant could claim the same…. However, if the tenant wishes to retain the premises and there is no clause giving any respite to the tenant, the rent or the monthly charges would be payable”.Though the May 21 order talks about lease agreements in general, making it eligible for both residential as well as commercial properties, the court, while laying broad guidelines, said the present case of Khan Market is not covered under the executive orders passed by the central and the Delhi governments giving protection to some classes of tenants. A senior Delhi government official in the chief minister’s office, asking not to be named, said that they would examine the order.Reacting to the order, Praveen Khandelwal, secretary-general of the Confederation of All India Traders, said while the court granted time to tenants to pay rent, a mechanism should be brought about so that the rent amount of the lockdown period can be paid in a six-month instalment period.“A major chunk of our expenditure goes towards rent for shops. Also, as per the government’s directions, we are bound to pay salaries to employees. In the light of this, a mechanism should be brought about so that we can clear the rent dues by a six-month instalment,” he said.After the lockdown was put into effect, several student groups living in rented accommodations across the Capital had written to Kejriwal, asking for help on similar grounds. Varkey Parakkal, founder of a Student Tenant’s Union, said the high court’s judgment of May 21 would not be applicable to students as the court had refused to examine the legalities of certain executive orders passed by the centre and the Delhi governments.“We got the judgment examined by our lawyers who said this order would not cover the executive orders passed by the authorities time to time in case of migrant labours, students and daily wagers. Hence, our rights are reserved,” he said.Atul Goyal, President of United Residents’ Joint Action, said there is a unilateral agreement between tenants and their landlords on humanitarian grounds and hence, both of them should chalk out a strategy on this.In the matter decided May 21, while the counsel for the petitioner had sought a waiver on the rent and postponement of payments, the advocate for the landlord had contended that mere suspension of work would not give the liberty to tenants to not pay rent as the revenue streams of landlords are also dependent on rent money.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tenants-must-pay-rent-for-lockdown-period-delhi-hc/story-Ic6gTeceZNWDshnmioVumO.html
23-05-2020||City||Taking jingles route to dissuade Punjab farmers from burning wheat straw||To educate farmers about ill-effects of burning wheat straw in fields and inspire them to avoid doing so, Ludhiana deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal, on Friday, released a set of four jingles (a short slogan, verse, or tune designed to be easily remembered, especially as used in advertising).These jingles have been prepared jointly by experts of Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) and the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB).Anil Sharma, assistant director (television), PAU, said, “The jingles have been prepared to educate farmers about the ill-effects of burning of wheat straw. The lyrics of these jingles have been penned by Punjabi poet Prof Gurbhajan Gill, and sung by folk singer Rajinder Malhar. Dialogues are by singer Harmit Singh and Dr Anil Sharma. All the actors in these jingles are students of PAU namely Harjoban Singh, Jaswant Singh, Abhishek Vij, Sharan Aulakh, Prabh Dhaliwal, Palwinder Baasi, master Anhad Prem Singh (son of a PAU employee) and Surinder Singh.He said, “PAU has been preparing such jingles on various issues regularly. When an issue is raised in the form of a jingle, its reach increases manifold.”Releasing the jingles, Agrawal said the district administration has been continuously making dedicated efforts to educate farmers about the ill-effects of burning wheat straw and it is due to these efforts that the number of fire incidents has decreased during the last two years and these incidents are decreasing with each passing year.He said the number of fire incidents from June 2017 to May 21, 2018 was 730, followed by 717 till May 21, 2019, and till May 21 this year, fire incidents came down to 648.He said this has been possible because all stakeholders are working hard to bring down the incidents.Sandeep Bahl, senior environmental engineer, PPCB, Ludhiana, urged farmers of the district to act responsibly and not indulge in burning of wheat straw in larger interest of the people.He said, “The burning of wheat straw reduces soil fertility and also pollutes our environment. Its burning amid Covid-19 pandemic can be more dangerous as smoke can aggravate the problems of breathing, lungs, etc.”He said FIRs are being taken against the farmers, who are burning wheat straw.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/taking-jingles-route-to-dissuade-farmers-from-burning-wheat-straw/story-pLkbalbIxy14V7qnIpxXAI.html
23-05-2020||Delhi||Only 66 of 239 eligible private liquor shops in Delhi to open for now||Less than a third of the 239 privately run liquor stores will be allowed to open from Saturday, according to excise department order on Friday that approved 66 of these shops to open under the condition that they adhere to the odd-even rule in place for market places.Delhi on Monday allowed liquor stores to open, unless they were in a mall, the airport or containment zones. There are 239 privately run shops that are eligible to open but needed to first submit stock records and declare they are not in a containment zone. Friday’s order, issued by special commissioner (excise) Sandeep Mishra, cleared 66 of them and also warned store owners against selling liquor without scanning the barcodes on the products. “In case of any un-scanned sale, the MSR (monthly stock record) gap generated shall be treated as the stock sold and 70% Special Corona Fee shall be levied,” read the order. Excise officials said that these 66 shops will be allowed to operate from Saturday on alternate days between 9am and 6.30pm. With this, more than 240 liquor stores will be allowed to reopen since the first relaxation order was issued by the excise department on May 4. There are 864 liquor shops in Delhi. Of these, 172 were standalone, government-run shops allowed to open first, with more being opened in phases. When asked about the remaining stores, a senior official said, “We have issued directions to the municipal corporations to also open their stores, but only on odd-even basis. More stores will be granted approvals soon.”The excise department, however, has so far not compiled the number of liquor stores under the municipal corporations that will be allowed to reopen.The delay in the order issued by the government left many private liquor store operators disappointed as they complained of not being able to reopen their shops despite complying with all the state orders. “I submitted the required undertaking that our outlet does not fall under a Covid-19 containment zone. I also updated the stock list the day before yesterday. The approval should have come on Thursday,” RS Mittal, who co-owns a liquor store on Vikas Marg said. In its May 18 order, the excise department did mention that all L-7 licensees (private liquor shops) are directed to conduct monthly stock record (MSR) updates between May 19 and May 21 (Friday). “Only after submission of the MSR compliance report and the undertaking, the shops will be allowed to open on the odd-even basis (sic),” the order stated. Vinod Giri, the director-general of the Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies, said that even as more liquor stores are reopening in the city, they are not pulling as much crowd as they should. “The massive crowds and rampant violation of social distancing norms that we saw earlier are no longer there. Our initial reports suggest that after the 70% corona cess was imposed, sales have reduced. Even though liquor rates in Haryana and other states have increased by 10-15%, they are still cheaper than Delhi,” Giri said. He added that the industry met excise minister and deputy CM Manish Sisodia to demand a roll-back of the cess. Senior government officials said that the matter was discussed on Thursday by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and the rest of the cabinet ministers. “But it was decided that we would wait because the government does not have the complete liquor sale data as of now to fully assess the impact of the corona cess,” said a senior government official on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/only-66-of-239-eligible-private-liquor-shops-to-open-for-now/story-2zI79oCcMqddAR4XxaW0hI.html
23-05-2020||City||Sunny days ahead for Ludhiana, says PAU weather department||With the city sizzling at 42.2 degree Celsius on Friday, the meteorological department of Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) said the temperature will continue to rise for a few more days in the presence of sunshine.Head of the department of school of climate change and agricultural meteorology, Prabhjyot Kaur, said the rising temperature will be helpful in pushing forward monsoon current towards the northern region. “The rising temperature will create a low pressure that will help in advancing the monsoon towards the northern region of the country. We had witnessed pleasant weather during the beginning of the month, but that does not help the monsoon in moving forward,” she said.PUNJAB MAY RECEIVE SHOWERS, SAYS WEATHERMANThe meteorologist also said, “There is slight chance of rain in central Punjab in a couple of days as some western disturbance has been noticed in the border region of Afghanistan and Pakistan.” On May 15, the meteorology department observatory of PAU had recorded 12.4mm rain. The maximum temperature on Friday was 32 degree Celsius and minimum was 22.6 degree Celsius.Meanwhile, a total of 41.2mm rain has been recorded in a fortnight.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sunny-days-ahead-says-pau-weather-department/story-qZaanpPvPSVddKV6D3RxOJ.html
23-05-2020||City||Ludhiana DC rejects arhityas pleas, says sabzi mandi to open only 3 days a week||Rejecting the arhtiyas’ demand of allowing the main wholesale sabzi mandi, situated near the Jalandhar Bypass, to open for six days a week, the three-member committee, formed by deputy commissioner (DC) Pradeep Agrawal, has recommended that the restrictions imposed on the mandi operations should continue till lockdown in the state.The committee, which has sub-divisional magistrate (SDM, West) Amrinder Singh Malhi, additional deputy commissioner of police-1 (ADCP) Gurpreet Singh Sikand and district mandi officer (DMO) Jaswinder Dhaliwal as members, recommended that passes should not be issued to 700 more customers as demanded by arhtiyas.“The number of arhtiyas and their staff is around 1,500 and, if 700 more people are allowed to enter the market apart from ward-wise vendors, there will be a huge gathering in the mandi. So, the committee recommended that the mandi should be allowed to operate only for three days a week till the lockdown is lifted,” said Dhaliwal, adding, “No chances should be taken at this time when new cases of Covid-19 continue to come up in the city.”The recommendations were made during a meeting of the committee held on Friday and the report was submitted to DC Agrawal for taking a decision on the same.Agrawal said, “As per recommendations of the committee, the present system would continue and mandi operations would be allowed for three days a week only.” Following complaints of a huge gathering at the sabzi mandi, the administration had, on April 3, restricted the sale of vegetables and fruits in the mandi to three days -- Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. Only listed suppliers and vendors, who sell vegetables to street vendors in the city’s 95 wards, were issued passes to enter the market.Ruing losses due to decline in sales, the arhtiyas had demanded that the mandi be opened for six days a week and 700 customers, other than vendors, should be allowed to enter the mandi.President of the Ludhiana Sabzi Mandi Arhtiya Association Gurkamal Singh had pleaded that arhtiyas had been facing losses as their regular customers were not allowed to enter the market. The vendors, listed with the market committee, purchase vegetables from a few arhtiyas only, as they illegally buy vegetables from other markets situated outside the city, he had said.Singh had said arhtiyas also faced losses as perishable items rotted in a day. He had also said that they were ready to take all required precautions, if the administration opened the mandi six days a week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/main-sabzi-mandi-in-ludhiana-to-open-for-three-days-a-week-only-entry-of-more-customers-not-allowed/story-NNwXTDTbqDVpI1m0UXUhON.html
23-05-2020||Chandigarh||Plan for social distancing before starting OPDs, PGIMER doctors told||Doctors at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) have been asked to make plans for resuming outpatient services on the basis of social distancing norms. All departments have been asked to give details of the number of patients to be accommodated at the outpatient departments (OPDs) on the basis of social distancing.No date has been finalised as yet to resume services, with UT health secretary Arun Gupta saying it was a tough call. “OPDs are generally overcrowded, be it the Government Medical College and Hospital or PGIMER. It is going to take some time to decide how the OPDs will reopen,” he said. PGIMER director Dr Jagat Ram, said it was impossible to resume services until precautionary measures were in place. “We are pushing for popularising telemedicine and tele-consultation services through which need-based appointments can be provided as few patients may also require physical diagnosis.” The appointment will be provided only through tele-consultation services based on the requirement of the patient and the decision of the doctor concerned, he said.Even though the lockdown in the city has been lifted partially, OPDs in hospitals have not restarted. PGIMER is also focusing on strengthening the referral system.The UT administrator has also stressed on the need to develop a mechanism to ensure that the burden of patients can be shared among all medical institutions in Chandigarh.Around 10,000 patients visit the PGI in a day, most of whom travel long distances from neighbouring states for better medical services, which have remained shut since March 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/plan-for-social-distancing-before-starting-opds-pgimer-doctors-told/story-Bf2KKnYtTR5naYzP2OGHAJ.html
23-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Press Club condemns FIR against Punjabi journo||Chandigarh Press Club on Friday condemned a case registered against a Punjabi daily journalist for alleged public mischief.Jai Singh Chhibber, who is also a member of the club, had written a story about how a Punjab cabinet minister gives heed to astrologers’ advice. No one was named in the article.Following this, a person from Morinda filed a complaint against Chibber in Chamkaur Sahib, and a case was registered under Sections 180 (refusing to sign statement) and 505 (statements conducing to public mischief) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), besides the IT Act. On Friday morning, police raided Chhibber’s house but he was out on an official assignment. Terming it an attack on the freedom of press, the club demanded strict action against the police officials concerned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-press-club-condemns-fir-against-punjabi-journo/story-HUtThGcaM0Hdca2ZEgFdUJ.html
23-05-2020||Chandigarh||Parents protest outside Chandigarh school over fee collection amid lockdown||Over a hundred parents gathered outside St Xavier’s Senior Secondary School in Sector 44 to protest against collection of fee amid the Covid-19 lockdown by the school authorities. Protesting parents said the school had no right to charge fee when it was not taking any online classes during the lockdown.One of the parents had on Thursday filed a formal complaint with the UT education department against the school.Parents protesting outside the school said they wanted to give a signed undertaking to the school authorities, but they refused to receive it. They alleged,“Instead of listening to our demands, the school authorities called in police. It was only later that the school authorities let two parents meet the principal. However, they still they didn’t take the list of demands from us.”Meanwhile, refuting parents’ allegations regarding overcharging fee from students, Naresh Handa, assistant director of the school, said, “The parents’ claims that the school has increased the fee and is charging development fee and computer fee, along with the tuition fee, are completely false.” “There is only 8% increase in fee as permitted by the law. We have the most genuine fee structure in Chandigarh and we give the best salaries to our staff as well,” added Handa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/parents-protest-outside-chandigarh-school-over-fee-collection-amid-lockdown/story-3Omj9frDfpHZpj5R9CP6qO.html
23-05-2020||City||2-day symposium on effect of Covid-19 on Indian education concludes||A two-day symposium titled ‘Indian Education: Covid-19 impact, challenges and opportunities’ organised by Gujranwala Guru Nanak Khalsa College (GGNKC), Ludhiana, concluded on Friday.For the valedictory session on the second day, prof Sanjay Kaushik, dean at college development council, Panjab University, Chandigarh, was the chief guest and Nisha Singh, deputy director, centre for online education, IGNOU; and Ganesh Hegde, adviser at National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC), were the resource persons for the technical sessions.Prof Kaushik focused on the free learning management systems (LMS) available online such as EDX and urged the teachers to train for the coming time of blended learning.Nisha Singh discussed the nuances of online education and Ganesh Hegde stressed on the importance of e-content and e-learning in the accreditation process.SP Singh, former vice-chancellor, Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU), Amritsar, in his welcome address lauded the endeavours of the college for organising the event. He focused on digital learning and advised teachers to adapt to e-textbooks, open educational resources (OERs) and technology enhanced teaching and learning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-day-symposium-on-effect-of-covid-19-on-indian-education-concludes/story-DmTNHUPHBuxDJ8BrMfJXqN.html
23-05-2020||City||Buddha Nullah desilting yet to start, residents face risk of water overflowing during monsoon||With the municipal corporation (MC) failing to commence desilting of the Buddha Nullah with dragline excavators, a risk of the nullah overflowing during the coming monsoon season looms large over the areas situated in the vicinity of the nullah as accumulating silt is visible on the surface at different points. The process, supposed to commence in the first week of April for increasing the capacity of the drain, has not been initiated till now and the nullah is filled with silt at different points, including New Kundanpuri and Shiv Puri. Facing a fund crunch, the MC has initiated the process of cleaning the sides of the nullah with the help of earthmovers, but these machines have limited reach and cannot clean the nullah properly. As per information, the MC gets the nullah desilted from the drainage department as the MC does not have dragline excavators, required for desilting.An MC official, requesting anonymity, said, “The drainage department had recently asked the MC to submit Rs 80 lakh for starting the desilting process, but the MC has, on the other hand, deployed JCB machines for cleaning the nullah citing fund crunch.” The MC has been delaying this process for the past few years, due to which the nullah overflows from different points, putting the general public on the receiving end. The nullah usually overflows in New Kundanpuri and Upkar Nagar areas almost every year and residents have to bear the brunt of the failure of the MC in desilting the nullah on time. As the nullah is the main drain of the city, the sewer system across the city gets choked when the nullah overflows. The internal drains, including the ones in Dharampura, through which sewer waste is discharged into the nullah, also overflows. Leader of BJP councillors in the General House of the MC, councillor Sunita Rani said, “A major threat looms over the residents of the city, but the civic body is not doing anything. Last year also, the nullah overflowed in New Kundanpuri, Shiv Puri, Jain Nagar and surrounding areas and filthy sewer water entered the houses of residents. The MC should have commenced the process with the help of dragline excavators in the beginning of April as it is an annual activity and officials know that we have to clean the nullah every year. We will meet mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu in a day or two for getting desilting initiated.” A resident of New Kundanpuri, Ratan Singh, said, “The nullah overflows near New Kundanpur Puli every year and filthy water enters our houses damaging furniture and electronic goods. Despite repeated requests, the MC has failed to find a solution to the problem and the civic body has also been delaying the process of desilting the nullah. This year also, the process has been delayed and the MC would not be able to clean the nullah in time, which would ultimately leave residents a harried lot.” Mayor Sandhu said, “The civic body has already deployed JCB machines for cleaning the nullah and, if needed, dragline excavators will also be deployed. The MC is also looking at an alternative to get certain stretches of the nullah cleaned from a private firm.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-proper-desilting-of-buddha-nullah-residents-face-risk-of-water-overflowing-during-rainy-season/story-DU4wL1s64m6YOeHbhEq6ZM.html
23-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi Covid cases rise by 660 in a single day, total death toll 208||The number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the national capital rose by 660 between Thursday and Friday, the biggest single-day spike in the tally, according to figures released by the government.Delhi’s tally on Friday crossed 12,000. The city-state also recorded 14 deaths, taking the toll over the 200 mark to 208, according to the daily health bulletin released by the Delhi government.Experts said that while the jump appeared to be the most serious yet, the numbers need to be studied along with testing data to determine the trajectory of the disease. An analysis of the daily new cases showed that the multiple in which cases have increased daily has varied in the range of 0.7-1.6 in the past week, with significant fluctuations that make it difficult to determine whether the growth of the outbreak has changed.Officials and experts have said easing of the lockdown restrictions, resumption of long distance air and rail travel services, and the movement of hundreds of thousands of migrants are likely to lead to a spurt in infections. “The calculation of the rate of increase based on the numbers that we have is very superficial. If you test more people, you will find more positive cases. We still do not know what percentage of the population was exposed to the infection,” said Dr Shobha Broor, former head of the department of microbiology at All India Institute of Medical Sciences. For the last four days, over 500 cases have been recorded in the daily health bulletin. This was the second of three scenarios for which a five-member expert committee had advised the Delhi chief minister to prepare. The first scenario was Delhi reporting 100 cases a day and the third was 1,000 cases a day.The committee plans to co-opt private hospitals, hotels and rest houses for travellers for isolation wards as the number of cases start increasing in the city.Broor warned that given the high proportion of asymptomatic cases, detecting new infections will be difficult. “None of the mathematical modeling have so far been able to predict the rise in the cases accurately. Plus, we say 80% of the cases are asymptomatic but we haven’t really done any serological studies to estimate the burden of the disease so far. We have to do antibody tests in selected cohorts both in high-burden and low burden areas to find out the number of asymptomatic cases there,” said Dr Broor. It was the first time that the number of cases on a single day exceeded 600. So far, the national capital has reported 12,319 cases of the viral infection.Of the 208 deaths, 135 have been added since May 12 when the three-member death review committee started recording previous fatalities after a discrepancy surfaced between the number of deaths reported in the daily health bulletin and the numbers from hospitals.Home isolation has helped reduce the need for institutional isolation facilities, with almost 37% currently with the infection being in home quarantine. Of the 6,214 active cases, 1,835 people with severe symptoms have been admitted to designated Covid-19 hospitals.Of the people in the hospitals, 169 are in the intensive care unit with 27 on ventilators, according to the Delhi health bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-covid-cases-rise-by-660-in-a-single-day-total-death-toll-208/story-25lA98FOHbmuYD3B5TIWpN.html
23-05-2020||Noida||Noida opens up more lanes as border check posts lead to jams||The traffic congestion at the Delhi-Noida borders, which had become something of a mainstay since Tuesday when lockdown restrictions were eased to allow interstate movement, reduced slightly on Friday, but that had little to do with a reduction in vehicular numbers, which commuters claimed was back to what it used to be before the lockdown.Gautam Budh Nagar is continuing to keep its borders sealed and only people with administration-issued passes and those involved in essential services are being allowed across the state lines.“In addition, we are also allowing lawyers to travel, in pursuance to an order from the Delhi high court. Till e-passes are issued to lawyers, we are letting them pass after verifying their ID cards. In addition, people who have medical appointments are also allowed cross the borders even if they don’t have a pass -- all they need are the medical documents. However, people who still have no emergency or a government-issued pass are not being allowed to cross the state lines,” Noida’s deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Sankalp Sharma, said.He said more lanes have been opened at all border points to accommodate the increased volume of traffic. Both officials and commuters are blaming the traffic congestion on people who are travelling without any specific reason.“The notifications have not changed for Noida for weeks now. People know that the border remains sealed and they are still coming up with various excuses to travel. When we ask them to go and obtain a pass, they start arguing, holding up traffic unnecessarily. Some of them have even been booked under Section 188 but every day, there are a few people who try to break the rules. We have coordinated with the Delhi Police regarding this issue,” a senior police officer, requesting anonymity, said.Commuters feel that the traffic volume is back to what it used to be before the nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 25, to curtail the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).“The normal 50-minute journey from Faridabad to Noida took me almost 1.5 hours on Friday via Kalindi Kunj because in addition to the large number of vehicles, police are also checking each motorist for passes and valid documents. Then there are vehicles that are being turned away for want of necessary papers,” said Amrinder Singh, a commuter, who lives in Faridabad and works in Noida.The situation is much worse when one is trying to enter Noida. “For us, the evening commute back to Faridabad is smooth, even during peak hours. But at the borders, we see a massive jam almost every day on the Delhi side as motorists queue up to enter Noida. There seems to be a lack of coordination between the Noida and Delhi Police,” Singh said.With more and more organisations resuming work at full staff strength, there is pressure on commuters to travel.“I told been told by the HR this weekend that we will now resume work at full scale. But travelling daily is a hassle. It’s easy in the mornings because Delhi Police is not checking commuters, but returning home to Noida is a struggle. Several of my colleagues have asked our company to get passes issued but that hasn’t been done either. We have had to make up excuses while returning to Noida,” an IT startup company employee, who travels from Noida to Delhi via DND Flyway, said.With state governments yet to iron out the issues, confusion reigns supreme at borders. “I saw on Thursday that the border has opened and that is why I was trying to go to Delhi to visit my in-laws but police didn’t let me through -- they said the border continues to be sealed for non-essential personnel,” Sandhya, a commuter trying to cross the Chilla border, said.The GB Nagar district magistrate and police commissioner had released a joint statement Thursday clarifying that the border status quo continues to be maintained until further instructions from the state government. The administration has written to UP government for a clarification on the issue and is yet to receive any reply.On DND Flyway, police have already been forced to open up more lanes instead of the single lane that was functioning during the lockdown until Tuesday.“Even checking passes is no longer feasible because that tends to hold up traffic. Some vehicles we recognise and some we let go. We check every third or fourth car and people who do not have the necessary papers are asked to turn back,” a Noida police constable manning DND Flyway said..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/congestion-eases-slightly-at-borders-commuters-feel-traffic-back-to-normal/story-6vTbhCKGYs5JzVbf1Zw3bO.html
23-05-2020||City||Ludhiana: GNDEC organises online laboratory training programme||The electrical engineering department of Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College, in association with the Virtual Labs, Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Roorkee, organised an online training programme for laboratory work for students.Programme coordinator Arvind Dhingra said,“We were feeling that with online theory classes students were missing out on practical lab training. To address this issue, the department contacted Virtual Labs, IIT, Roorkee.”Virtual labs gives students of various disciplines a hands-on experience of working in a laboratory class right from their homes.Kanwardeep Singh, head of department (electrical), said that the Virtual Labs project is an initiative taken by the ministry of human resource development (MHRD), government of India, under the aegis of national mission on education through information and communication technology (NMEICT).The project has been undertaken by twelve institutes and IIT Delhi as its coordinating institute.Around 100 Virtual Labs consisting of approximately 700+ web-enabled experiments have been designed for remote-operation and viewing. Experts from IIT, Roorkee, trained over 1,025 students and 24 faculty members. Chetan Dhiman and his teammates Amit Kumar and Priyadarshini, under the guidance of Virtual Labs project coordinator RP Singh, delivered the sessions.Principal Sehijpal Singh appreciated the efforts of the organisers and said that online learning was the need of the hour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-gndec-organises-online-laboratory-training-programme/story-Rv4xmRtMxk36hXs7KHLt4J.html
23-05-2020||City||Ignoring social distancing norms, 150 parents gather at govt school in Ludhiana to collect books||Flouting social distancing rules, over 150 parents and their wards gathered at Government High School, Kailash Nagar, to collect textbooks for the new academic session.After a video, showing parents jostling against each other, started circulating on social media, district education officer (DEO-secondary) Swaranjit Kaur issued a notice to the school headmistress, asking reason for the negligence.School headmistress Balwinder Kaur said, “We had sent a message in the WhatsApp groups of Classes 8 to 10, asking students to collect the books in time slots assigned as per their roll number. But a large number of parents gathered in the school with their wards. Despite repeated requests to maintain social distancing, nobody listened to us. Due to the hot weather and space constraints in the school, the parents were in a hurry to get the textbooks.”The school headmistress had to call the police to control the situation as parents were not listening to them. After cops reached the campus at 11am, parents and their wards were asked to stand in a queue, at a distance of one metre from each other.“I apologise for our mistake as we should have asked a single class to come and collect the books. We started the book-distribution process on Thursday. Students, who had failed to collect the books yesterday, also reached the school today (on Friday). As the school has an area of 362 square yards, we have no extra space to handle such a large crowd,” she said.“Also, on the same day, a lot of parents turned up to enrol their children in different classes. We told them to call us as the school had been opened just to distribute books. New admissions can be conducted online,” she added.A teacher at the school, requesting anonymity, said, “We had received four textbooks for Class 8, seven for Class 9 and one for Class 10 from the block office and were asked to distribute them at the earliest. Moreover, we have to send the details to the nodal officer of the Mangat 2 block regarding the number of books received and distributed. Though we requested the parents to maintain social distancing, nobody bothered to follow the directions.”DEO Swaranjit Kaur said, “We have asked the schools to hand over the new textbooks class-wise and upload the report daily on the web portal. Instead of asking students of one class to come and collect the books, the school authorities called children of three classes. The school authorities must have prepared a proper schedule to distribute the textbooks, but in a hurry, they violated the social distancing norms.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ignoring-social-distancing-150-parents-gather-at-govt-school-in-ludhiana-to-collect-books/story-pt3qfCC5L1H2jadd1VXzkK.html
23-05-2020||Delhi||Shaheen Bagh market, closed since stir, opens after 5 months||Perfectly drawn circles adorn the lane outside shops in Shaheen Bagh market, but there are no customers. Inside the shops, workers carefully check the garments for damage — trousers nibbled by rats, shirts with dust-filled creases. The shirts have to be sent back, washed, and ironed before they can be put on display again.The nationwide lockdown began on March 25. For the traders of Shaheen Bagh, it began many months earlier, on the evening of December 16, 2019.“We heard reports of stone-pelting in Jamia Nagar that afternoon. We were watching the news when we saw policemen chasing a mob outside our shops. The police asked us to down the shutters on our shops. We left in a hurry. The whole market closed within minutes, around 4pm. We did not know then that we would only be back more than five months later,” said Sairaq Aziz, a 32-year-old shopkeeper.On December 16, a group of local residents, led by elderly women, blocked Road 13A outside the market to protest the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, or CAA, which had been passed in Parliament a few days ago. The protesters stayed on the street for 100 days.As shops stayed shut over all of winter, traders continued to suffer losses, even as the number of protesters on the road grew; the site became a symbol across the country of voices against the Act.Over three months later, on March 24 morning, Delhi Police evicted the protesters, removed the tents set up on the road, and erased the anti-government messages written on the walls. The Delhi government had issued prohibitory orders to stem the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), that had made its way to the National Capital by then.While the road was finally clear, the shops had to stay shut. The government had ordered the closure of all markets as a precautionary measure.With the lockdown being eased, and shops allowed to open in Delhi last week – subject to their adhering to government guidelines, the market has begun to awake from its slumber. But their wares have few takers.“First it was the protest. Now it’s the disease. We have opened shops but nobody is coming here. Most traders have shut shop and left because they could not bear the losses,” said Sharik Malik, 21, who works at a garments’ store.From multi-storey showrooms that sell imported garments to traders who sell locally manufactured clothes and other goods, there are around 200 shops in the Shaheen Bagh market.On Friday, only around 40 shops were open, when at least 100 shops should have been open. The government on Monday allowed shops to open on alternate days, while following the ‘odd-even’ arrangement.“We were fortunate to survive the protest and the lockdown, but the trader next door has shut his business. He could not sustain the losses. Imagine having to pay rent and salary of the staff while there has been absolutely no business for five months,” Malik said.The monthly rent for a showroom, which are mostly factory outlets, in Shaheen Bagh ranges between ₹75,000 and ₹3 lakh.At another store, Rahul Jha, 39, has finished collecting all the clothes that rats had nibbled. “Nobody will buy these clothes. Most shops here are in basements, so rodents and water seepage is a common problem. We will be blamed for not storing these garments properly. When we hurriedly closed shop in December, we just switched off the lights and escaped,” Jha said.Nasir Hussain, 52, owns an Allen Solly showroom and is also the president of the Shaheen Bagh market association. “I checked with my employees this afternoon. We sold one piece of clothing through the entire day. Normally, during the festive season, we would earn at least ₹1.5 lakh every day. The losses that the market has suffered could be hundreds of crores.”Hussain said many shopkeepers have not returned to their shops because have been unable to sustain their businesses. Fridays at Shaheen Bagh is usually a big day for traders. During Ramzan and especially the last Friday before Eid, the turnout of shoppers is the highest. But not this week. Most traders said the market’s proximity to containment zones (areas that are sealed off due to a cluster of Covid-19 cases) is also keeping people away. The lane behind the market and another one in nearby Abul Fazal zone was a containment zones.The few shops that had customers were those selling children’s clothing. Israr Alam, 35, who owns a shop by the name of Israr exports said he hasn’t sold anything in the last few days. “Adults now prefer to wear their old clothes. Children outgrow their clothes, so some people buy clothes for their young ones out of desperation. I do not know how long I will be able to go on like this,” he said.Many traders said they are worried only about Covid-19 now. They said they are certain there won’t be a similar protest-related closure again. They also point towards a bright white tent on the road set up by the police.Outside the tent, two Delhi Police constables were busy managing the traffic. Seven armed Central Reserve Police Force personnel had arrived to start their shift at the road. As the shops closed one after another in the evening, the paramilitary force personnel wore their riot protection gear and started patrolling the lanes. They had a job to do. Their task was clear — ensure there is no protest at Shaheen Bagh again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/for-traders-in-shaheen-bagh-the-lockdown-began-in-december/story-2PYY1rRdsrKtHBfsxV0rCL.html
23-05-2020||Delhi||Why were two patients, residing in the night shelter outside AIIMS, shifted to far off hospitals: HC to govt||The Delhi High Court on Friday directed the chief secretary to file a report with regard to the manner in which the night shelter at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) is being managed by the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) and undertake all corrective measures without any delay. The court’s direction came after it noted that 22 outstation patients tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Thursday evening.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rajnish Bhatnagar also directed the principal secretary, health, of the Delhi government, DUSIB, and AIIMS to file an affidavit detailing why two patients, residing in the night shelter outside the hospital, were shifted to hospitals far away and not accommodated in the AIIMS Covid-19 facility when they tested positive.The court asked the chief secretary to look into the various grievances raised by the petitioners—Karan Seth, a lawyer, and Rachna Malik, a social worker —who had filed pleas on different issues facing the outstation patients residing at a shelter home outside AIIMS.“We direct that today’s order be placed before the chief secretary, GNCTD (Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi) and after examining the report that may be prepared after today’s visit, including the videograph, we direct him to examine the position with regard to the manner in which the night shelter at AIIMS is being managed by DUSIB, and to undertake all corrective measures, as are called for, without any delay. A further status report be filed by DUSIB, GNCTD, AIIMS and Malik,” the court said.Reacting to the order, chief secretary Vijay Dev said, “I will ensure DUSIB, as also other agencies, discharge their responsibilities to the full satisfaction of the court.”The media advisor to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said, “We will examine the matter.”In his plea filed through advocate Arjun Syal, Seth requested the court that directions be given to the authorities to provide free treatment to 100 outstations patients residing at the shelter home outside AIIMS.On Friday, Malik, through her counsel, Vaibhav Pratap Singh informed the court that there was no potable drinking water facility at the night shelter. She also pointed out that the toilet facility at the night shelter was inadequate and filthy, and not properly maintained throughout the day, due to lack of sufficient water.“Though the toilets are cleaned twice a day, due to lack of water, they get soiled very fast, and the sewer line is choked,” she submitted, adding that there is no regulation of people entering the night shelter. She said that the mother of one of two persons infected at the night shelter has left the premises.However, the counsel appearing for the director of the night shelter refuted the contentions and stated that the toilets used at night are separate and are regularly maintained. Whenever the toilets are choked, they are attended to by DUSIB, he submitted.Following this, the court ordered an inspection of the night shelter on Friday wherein the proceedings would be videographed and statements of those occupying the night shelter would also be recorded – to ascertain the factual position.The court also noted the submission of the DUSIB made in its status report stating that the two patients who tested positive from the night shelter were shifted to Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Hospital and Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital while remarking, “…..we are at loss to understand as to why they were not taken to the AIIMS Covid facility, and why they have been shifted to far off hospitals when they were staying in the night shelter outside AIIMS.The bench called upon a report from the principal secretary, health department, of the Delhi government, DUSIB and AIIMS and posted the matter for further hearing on May 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/why-were-two-patients-residing-in-the-night-shelter-outside-aiims-shifted-to-far-off-hospitals-hc-to-govt/story-AipVNTmQj6A0DQ15S3HRPK.html
23-05-2020||Delhi||Mess worker at AIIMS dies with Covid-19, docs say safety flouted||A worker from one of the hostel canteens at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) died of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Thursday night, making him the first known death in a hospital campus in Delhi.“He had some cardiac issues and he was positive for Covid-19. He did not work in any patient area,” Subhashish Panda, deputy director of administration at AIIMS, said. He worked at the hostel mess of the Rajendra Prasad Centre for Ophthalmic Sciences, which is frequented by doctors, nurses and other health care workers.The resident doctors’ association (RDA) in a letter to the director of the hospital demanded the resignation of the hostel superintendent and the senior warden for alleged “failure” to put in place protective measures.“We had demanded regular screening wit thermal scanner and availability of masks, sanitisers, etc., in the mess so that they work safely without endangering themselves and the hospital staff, over a month ago. However, nothing was really done. Sanitisers would sometimes be available but there was no screening at all, anybody could just walk in,” said Dr Srinivas Rajkumar T, general secretary of the hospital RDA.A letter to the director written on Friday states, “We demand testing of all mess workers and residents by diligent contact tracing and ensure such incidences don’t repeat. We demand appointment of a more receptive and resident friendly hostel superintendent and senior warden.” The doctors have also requested the administration to pay compensation to the family of the mess worker.“It is very unfortunate that one of the staff members has died. However, the doctors should not raise such allegations, several measures are being taken to prevent infection in the hospital,” said a senior official from the hospital administration. So far, at least 130 hospital staff have tested positive for Covid-19 at AIIMS. Across Delhi, at least 560 health care workers have tested positive for the infection.“So far, there is no instance of any of the health care workers or hospital staff acquiring the infection from the hospital. We have nodal officers in the hospital who educate the staff on practising safety measures not only in the hospital but also outside,” Panda said.Meanwhile, doctors across hospitals in Delhi protested with a black ribbons on Friday demanding proper quarantine and testing of health care workers after Covid-19 duties to ensure they do not carry back the infection to their homes. “We will continue our black ribbon protest tomorrow as well and hold a candle-light vigil. We want the ministry to amend its recent quarantine guidelines,” said Dr Shivaji Barman, president of the Federation of Resident Doctors Association. Healthcare workers used to work for 14 days and then go for quarantine for the next 14 days to ensure they did not have the infection when they went home or to work. The union ministry guidelines on May 15 said that the 14-day quarantine was not necessary unless there was a breach of the personal protective equipment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mess-worker-at-aiims-dies-with-covid-19-docs-say-safety-flouted/story-ujWtFyuUvvtdlEpoK6EJQJ.html
23-05-2020||City||Ludhiana BJP unit welcomes newly appointed district president||Pushpinder Singhal, who was appointed as the district president of Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) Ludhiana unit two days ago, was welcomed by the workers at the party office on Friday.The occasion was kept a low key affair and only a few party workers were present to welcome the newly appointed district president.On Wednesday, Punjab BJP president Ashwani Sharma had handed over the command of the Ludhiana BJP president’s post to Singhal, who has replaced Jatinder Mittal.Kamal Chatly and Gurdev Sharma Debi were being considered as the frontrunners for the post. In February, intense lobbying was witnessed from both the leaders during Ashwani Sharma’s visit to Guru Nanak Bhawan.40-YEAR ASSOCIATION WITH PARTY Singhal has been associated with the BJP for nearly 40 years. District media in-charge Satish Kumar said Singhal had started his political career in 1980 from BJP Yuva Morcha. He remained district secretary for two consecutive terms -- once he was nominated as general secretary and served as the district vice-president for six terms.Addressing the party workers, Singhal said he would try his best to strengthen the organisational setup of the party and raise the issues “to expose the misrule of the ruling Congress government in the state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-bjp-unit-welcomes-newly-appointed-district-president/story-qNWb7bB4YAuMSbhudvSqmJ.html
23-05-2020||Pune||Will mediate between migrant labourers and government, says social activist Medha Patkar||Social activist Medha Patkar said that migrant workers stranded in Pune are facing a lot of difficulties despite the arrangement of Shramik trains and private luxury buses. In the city to help the stranded get back to their home, Patkar spoke to Dheeraj Bengrut when she visited Bharati Vidyapeeth police stationWhat is your analysis of the current situation in Pune and across the state of stranded migrant workers and their travelling arrangements?I started to work on this issue from May 6 from Madhya Pradesh and I am going to various districts in Maharashtra to check and help solve problems of migrant workers. One thing which I see everywhere is that they are not being treated well at most of the places by government agencies, police department and their employers. So they just want to go back to their home, but the issue is travelling. The decision taken by the Modi government to start special trains for these stranded people has been taken very late and they had given permission earlier to private transport vehicles to travel by road. The railway is the best transporting network of the public sector and the migrants were looted by the private sector earlier during the lockdown. They have come on India’s map for the first time as they are an unorganised sector, but are kept unsecured by the government till now. Most of them have not got salaries for the last two months and they are struggling for survival.How are you and your team working to help the stranded in Pune?Since the last three to four days, I am going across Pune and Pimpri- Chinchwad, visiting labour camps, government schools where these stranded have been kept and railway stations and state transport (ST) stands from where they are being sent. One thing is clear that there is a lack of coordination between the government agencies. For example, one train which went to Bihar on Thursday had few seats vacant. Luckily, some people who had registered to travel came to the railway station and were allowed to travel. Similarly for ST buses, for travelling within the state they should now send more buses and help these people.My volunteers and I are now going to each of the police stations in each district of Maharashtra, including Pune. We are collecting data of people who have travelled, those who are still here and want to return to their homes and the technical issues they are facing or what any kind of help they need for survival in the city. We provide them all possible help.What is your plan of action to address the issue?We are collecting data from police stations and other government agencies across the state. We have made formats according to the states, where people want to travel and if they are still stuck here, we will become a mediator between them and the government agencies for their safe travel. This thing will go on for many more days and stranded people which include children, pregnant women and elderly people need to be taken care of. Today we don’t want to look into corruption as of now, but government officials and the police need to be alert and take proper steps.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/will-mediate-between-migrant-labourers-and-government-says-patkar/story-RLEapcxa6AEJUCXu3nAbaP.html
23-05-2020||Pune||Pune APMC meet to restart Gultekdi wholesale vegetable market||To start the wholesale vegetable market located at Gultekdi soon, Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) has called a meeting with traders on Tuesday (May 26). The grocery and grain wholesale market will resume operations from Monday (May 25).Pune APMC administrator BJ Deshmukh said, “The grain and grocery market remained shut since last week as some traders became Covid-19 positive and Poona Merchant Chamber decided to close the market. We are planning to resume operations now by following precautions because the virus spread situation can be checked but will not end in the next couple of days.”The vegetable wholesale market has been shut since the last one-and-a-half-month with many traders coming from containment areas.Though sub-markets at Manjari and Pimpri are functioning, APMC plans to start the Gultekdi main market considering agricultural losses in rural area.Deshmukh said, “A meeting has been called with vegetable traders, hamal panchyat representatives and those related to APMC to take a decision at the earliest.”Deshmukh said, “Pune APMC has decided to provide adequate facilities and follow all precautions related to coronavirus. Mask will be mandatory and only 100 vehicles would be allowed inside grain market at a time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/apmc-meet-to-restart-gultekdi-vegetable-market/story-l3VAU0TGXMCvZ2wQn1B4TP.html
23-05-2020||City||HT Readers’ Take: ‘Tough challenge for schools to put Covid-19 safety steps in place if they reopen now’||I’LL PAY THE FEES, BUT WON’T SEND MY CHILD TO SCHOOLJunior and middle schools, even through rotation, should not be opened as students in this age group are vulnerable. They are not only very young, but very immature and naughty as well. Controlling them can be tough. As a mother of a 10-year-old Class 5 student I find it difficult to keep him productively occupied at home or quickly complete his homework online on time. Not being tech savvy I sometimes feel stuck and irritated as well. However, health is wealth so I would prefer to teach my child at home and pay tuition fees on time instead of sending him to school. Money does not matter, but the least I would hope the schools to do is adjust the administration and maintenance charges. The syllabus of the middle schools this year can be adjusted too so that teachers are spared the burden of completing courses quickly.Yasmin D Khosla, PanchkulaFOCUS ON BONDS FORGED DURING THE LOCKDOWNChandigarh is quickly coming to grips with Covid-19, so we should do anything to allow the virus to spread unchecked by being in a hurry to open the schools. Let the schools reopen in a phased manner from July 1 onward. What is important is to build upon the new connect between students, teachers, and parents that was created during the lockdown and made youngsters respect grownups at home and school as they see the elders catching up with their technological skills. Creativity has scored and so has the attendance and participation in online classes. Once schools reopen we much build on the bonds we have strengthened during this period and move ahead to 2021 towards our desired goals.Madhu RD Singh, Ambala CantonmentONLINE CLASSES CANNOT COMPENSATE FOR FACE-TO-FACE INTERACTIONSBeing a grade 12 student, I would request you to consider reopening of schools the need of the hour. We are suffering too. How will we be able to cover the syllabus even though online classes are being held as they aren’t as effective as face to face classes? CBSE also hasn’t issued any clarifications about the reduced syllabus.Arshiya Kishore NO COMPLACENCY WHEN IT COMES TO STUDENTSNo, schools should not be opened immediately as the safety and health of children is of utmost importance. No matter what steps the administration takes, social distancing is next to impossible in our overcrowded classrooms, school buses etc. We can’t even expect children to follow norms strictly, wear masks in the summer and use sanitisers frequently. Handling food during lunch hours is also an issue. For teachers, managing the rush of students while entering and leaving school premises could be a problem. Online teaching should be continued till the pandemic is controlled. One can’t be complacent when it comes to the safety of students as one infected child can act as a super spreader. This is not at all a risk worth taking and administration should seriously take note.Dr Vinay Kapur, Chandigarh DECLARE 2020 THE YEAR OF ‘ONLINE’ EDUCATIONThe present academic session (2020-21) up to Class 12 should once and for all be declared a year for ‘online’ education for the safety and health of children. Will social distancing be possible in classrooms, school buses or while entering and leaving schools? Is use of common toilets advisable? A recess break will also put children’s ability to don and doff masks to test. Smaller children will find it difficult to not touch their masks, which will increase chances of infections, and the summer heat will not make things easy. Opening of schools amidst the pandemic while ensuring social distancing will require investment in terms of sanitising the premises multiple times and running more than one shifts. Rather, schools should devise safe, secure and foolproof methods of conducting exams online. We as parents say a resounding no to opening of schools in the present scenario as the number of cases are increasing. Nothing is worth more than our children’s health.Arpita Kapur, PanchkulaMAKE MASKS A PART OF SCHOOL UNIFORMSAll schools should be allowed to open according to schedule with an undertaking that social distancing will be maintained and masks made compulsory and a part of the school uniform. Remaining confined at home for a long period can lead to mental and other health problems.TBS BediMEDICAL HELP NOT AVAILABLE IN MANY SCHOOLSKeeping in view the present conditions it is not advisable to open the schools immediately as the safety of students is likely to be compromised. As many schools might be unable to provide immediate medical help in the present scenario they should act wisely and wait for the right opportunity to open.SK Gupta, MohaliCAN CHILDREN OBSERVE STRICT DISTANCING, SAFETY NORMS?Decision of school opening is a very crucial decision as it could put the lives of children at risk. Let’s imagine a scenario in which a school opens and child gets infected. He or she could infect others and they in turn could transmit it to their family members. Now let’s go with the theory of social distancing and hygiene – do you think many students will be able to follow safety norms, especially those in primary classes? Definitely not. Studies are an important part of a student’s life no doubt, but lives matter too. Schools should remain closed till the situation improves.Himanshi SehgalDON’T ALLOW ANY FUNCTIONSYes, there should be no problem in reopening schools, but it should only be done if school managements take the responsibility of strictly following social distancing and other safety norms. Protection of children should be the topmost priority. Schools must ensure children are checked at the gates for temperature. Shift systems allowing batches to come in on alternate days can be followed. No gathering of any kind such as seminars and other functions should be allowed.Prabhjot Nagpal, ZirakpurMANAGING SOCIAL DISTANCING A CHALLENGEOpening schools might result in more children getting infected with Covid-19. It will be a challenge to manage social distancing and taking other precautionary measures in schools given the crowded classrooms. Parents will also not want to expose their children to risks now.Saikrit Gulati, ChandigarhPARENTS SHOULD BE CONSULTEDThe director, school education, should discuss the issue with teachers and parents to find a workable solution, keeping in mind that the health of the students is paramount. The health department should also maintain records of infections among the students.Usha Verma, ChandigarhINVOLVE STUDENTS, TEACHERS IN DECISION-MAKINGThe education department of the Chandigarh administration must draw up a comprehensive plan involving principals and senior students from government and private schools to reopen. In fact, teachers and senior students besides other staff members should be taught and trained on a war footing to ensure that precautions such as sanitisers, hand-wash, masks, etc are used and social distancing norms followed. School principals should have a daily briefing (on what to do) every day and debriefing (identifying and removing shortcomings) with teachers and senior students to ensure safeguards remain in place and improve every day. Dr SS Bhatti, ChandigarhONLINE CLASSES TEMPORARY SOLUTIONAll the stakeholders in education should prepare to reopen schools in a phased manner. However, new safety measures ranging from adequate ventilation of classrooms to placing desks six feet apart to ensure social distancing norms, wearing masks and only allowing students of a particular age to attend classes should be adopted. Many offices and companies are resuming work gradually, so why leave schools behind? Online classes are a temporary solution because in traditional classrooms individuals learn many life skills. Being in the peer group is very important for the emotional growth of children. Continuing online classes for long time can lead to certain behavioural issues which might adversely impact the mental well-being of students.Jasleen Kaur, ChandigarhSCHOOLS NOT EQUIPPED TO PUT SAFETY MEASURES IN PLACEWill our current system be ready to take on the risk of opening schools? Do institutes have the wherewithal to manage transport, classrooms with social distancing for designated strength of students; adequate staff strength and health services? Analysing all of this will indicate that we are not ready as yet to take on the risk of opening schools.Om Prakash Negi REVISE SYLLABUS, MAKE IT SHORTERUsually at this time of the year schools are normally closed for summer holidays before the new session and to protect students from the ill-effects of intense heat wave conditions. Now, with the Covid-19 outbreak, it is not in any way justifiable to open schools. Revised shorter syllabus with online teaching sessions and staggered group home tuitions with health advisories adhered to are some safety measures school managements can opt for the completion of course work .Anil Vinayak, Amritsar CUT SHORT SCHOOL TIMINGSIf schools have to be opened then only senior classes should be allowed. Classes can be segregated and students with roll numbers ending with odd and even numbers should come on alternate days. The whole school, classes, benches, walls labs and school buses should be sanitised and school hours cut short. Students entering schools should be checked for fever with staff present at gates handing out masks to those not wearing them. Their hands and bags should be sanitised. No first term exams should be conducted up to Class 8.Sonia AryaWAIT FOR CITIES TO REPORT ZERO CASESBeing a student I want to suggest that schools should not open until our cities or states record zero cases because many students coming from containment zones will put the lives of others at risk as implementing social distancing norms in institutes could be a problem. According to me, teachers, too, might not be able to monitor larger classes and see if students are following other safety precautions. I feel online classes are for our benefit as there is less consumption of paper, students are getting used to technology and can easily make notes on their smartphone. One is also comfortable while sitting at home and studying. Fuel too is saved as students don’t have to be dropped off to or picked up from school.Nikhil Sharma, LudhianaCHILDREN’S STUDIES SHOULD NOT BE AFFECTEDI firmly believe that schools should be reopened for Classes 12 and 10, requiring batches to attend on alternate days. As it’s certain that development of a vaccine against Covid-19 will take a considerable amount of time, we should take strict measures to ensure that children’s studies are not affected.Sanjay Singla||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tough-challenge-for-schools-to-put-covid-19-safety-steps-in-place-if-they-reopen-now/story-N7f98PA3HPhSbDFGhaw8PP.html
23-05-2020||City||Six more RPF men test positive for virus in Ludhiana||In more bad news for the railway protection force (RPF) in Ludhiana, six more personnel have tested positive for Covid-19, taking the total number of infected jawans to 55. The entire RPF staff at Ludhiana railway station, which was sent on deployment from Delhi, has already been sent into quarantine.As they were sent here on deployment, the Punjab government is refusing to count them in the state’s tally of positive patients. Assistant security commissioner, RPF Ferozepur Division, Arun Kumar said, “The entire staff of 90 personnel at Ludhiana railway station has been quarantined and the post has been sealed. Now, RPF personnel who are deployed in Jalandhar are travelling down to Ludhiana everyday to control the crowd at the railway station.Besides this, a 28-year-woman, who had arrived from Delhi on May 18, has also tested positive for the virus. She was visiting Gurpal Nagar area of the city.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said that none of the infected patients are from Ludhiana so the district’s tally remains at 178. Currently, the district has 80 patients who are from other districts.Ludhiana deputy commissioner Pradeep Agrawal said that till date, a total of 5,593 samples have been taken for testing, of which, reports of 5,343 have been received. As many as 5,085 samples tested negative while the results of 250 are still pending. He said that as many as 131 patients have been cured till date and seven people of the district have lost their lives, while five people from other districts have also died in the city hospitals.Meanwhile, as many 23 NRI who returned from Canada were screened at the civil hospital. After screening, they were quarantined at Parker House in Punjab Agricultural University.Besides, a couple that had returned from South Africa was also screened at civil hospital and later shifted to isolation facility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/six-more-rpf-men-test-positive-for-virus-in-ludhiana/story-Y4G5VXTOiPhJO6Zk07fdZK.html
23-05-2020||City||Stuck in US for two months, 100 tourists flown back to Chandigarh||As many as 100 people from the region who got stuck in the United States of America (USA) following the Covid-19 outbreak landed at the Chandigarh International Airport on Friday.The Air India flight that carried them back landed at the airport via Delhi around 1.30pm. Most of the passengers had visited the US on tourist visas, but their trip soon turned into a nightmare after the outbreak hit the American soil.“We are lucky to be back in our homeland. The Covid situation in the USA was such, every passing day was becoming a nightmare,” said one of the passengers. This, he said, was a mutual feeling among them.On touchdown, all passengers were medically screened for symptoms. They were sent to institutional quarantine for 14 days at their respective locations.Of the 100 passengers, five are from Mohali, 12 from Haryana, 16 from Himachal Pradesh, nine from Chandigarh, two from Uttarakhand and the rest from various districts of Punjab.Sukhdarshan Singh, a native of Hoshiarpur in Punjab, who went to New York with his family in February, said, “I cannot express the happiness I felt on reaching my homeland. We were not sure if we would be able to come back. The situation in the US was pretty bad and we really wanted to leave.”“I was homesick and wanted to come back desperately. Every passing day in the US was becoming a nightmare for me. The way the Indian government acted proactively is commendable,” said Priya, who is from Patiala and had gone to New York on a tourist visa in March.‘MISMANAGED ADMINISTRATION’Another resident of Amritsar, Gagandeep Kaur, who visited Maryland on a fellowship in December last year, said, “We are happy to be back, but there was complete mismanagement on the part of the district administration. Our flight landed at 1.30pm, but we were at the airport till 5pm. I will be reaching Amritsar at 9pm. On the other hand, the US consular officials were very cooperative,” she said.Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh, who led the screening and medical examination of the passengers, said all were asymptomatic.District nodal officer Dr Harmandeep Kaur Brar said the passengers will be quarantined at government facilities in their respective states for 14 days as a precautionary measure.MORE RETURN FROM CANADA, MALAYSIABesides the nine passengers from US, 16 other Chandigarh residents returned from Canada and Malaysia on Friday.As many as 13 residents arrived from Canada after landing at the Delhi and Amritsar airports, while three from Malaysia arrived at the Amritsar airport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/stuck-in-us-for-two-months-100-tourists-flown-back-to-chandigarh/story-jYCkhR6kLFnMXiV3FuIlVM.html
23-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh to celebrate Eid at home this year||The Muslim community of the city has pledged to celebrate Eid-al-Fitr at home this year in order to promote social distancing and prevent the spread of coronavirus disease.The decision was taken at a meeting held by the representatives of various city mosques and UT director general of police (DGP) Sanjay Baniwal at Jama Masjid in Sector 20 on the last Friday of the holy month of Ramadan.Eid-al-Fitr will be celebrated on May 25 this year. It was decided that mosques will be kept closed and devotees will offer namaz from home. Kari Shamsher, head of the Sector 45 mosque, said this was the first time since Independence that mosques in the city will remain closed on Eid. Maulana Ajmal Khan, head of the Sector 20 masjid, added that the message to stay home will be given during the daily azaan.To pay their respects to the heads, the police offered 700 kilos of vermicelli (sewiyan) to the community. The mosque heads returned the gesture by offering bouquets to DGP Baniwal and UT deputy inspector general of police (DIG) Omvir Singh Bishnoi.During the entire month of Ramadan, the mosques in Chandigarh remained closed and devotees were asked to offer prayers at home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-to-celebrate-eid-at-home-this-year/story-VTXAoMRQhyXaEcbmeSRqYM.html
23-05-2020||Pune||Labour migration delays Metro and highway projects in Pune||The work on metro and the highway connecting Katraj to Navale bridge, two major development projects in Pune, is hit after many migrant labourers left for their native places because of the Covid-19 (coronavirus) spread.Though Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited (Maha-Metro) got the nod from Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to resume work and complete the pre-monsoon operations, the former face at least 50 per cent workforce shortage.“The lockdown halted the metro work in the city and now we face labour shortage with migrant labourers returning to their hometowns. During the lockdown, we had 2,843 labourers working with the contractor. With 1,500 workers leaving for their hometowns, we are left with only around 1,300 to work on-site,” said Hemant Sonawane, general manager, public relations Maha-Metro.He said, “It is essential for us to complete some of the crucial work on the riverfront and the riverbed before the monsoon. Hence, we have diverted all the remaining manpower to work on these critical areas and on junctions with almost no traffic.”Sonawane said that while the departure of labourers has caused a setback, contractors are revising plans to ensure that work deadlines are met.Atul Gadgil, Maha-Metro director, said, “We are managing with only 25 per cent manpower. Only pre-monsoon related critical works are going on. Earlier, our deadline for trial run was April 2020, but now it depends on the availability of labour and other administrative related things.”According to Gadgil, Maha-Metro has decided to demolish two foot-over-bridges (FOBs) located at Kharalwadi and Vallabhnagar after Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) okayed the task. PMC has suggested demolition of FOB at Nal stop, but a decision is awaited.PMC approved the work of six-laning of a stretch from Navale bridge to Katraj in November 2019, but the Covid-19 crisis has delayed the project.Although the Public Works Department (PWD) began a trial patch of 300 metres, with two layers of work done for the road widening from the Navale bridge side, work came to a halt due to the coronavirus pandemic.Thirty labourers plus engineers and contractors were at work on site, but many workers left for their native places leaving the site with only engineers, said Rahul Kulkarni, assistant engineer, PWD for National Highway.“If only we had received the permission to begin work earlier than April 15, 2020, we could have begun work as labourers would have been there. We have machinery on-site, but no drivers or operators,” he said.Kulkarni also raised his apprehension about whether the labourers would return to work after undergoing 14-day quarantine. “We had approached PMC five months ago for permissions from tree authority to transplant or cut 232 trees along the service road from Navale bridge to Katraj. We are still awaiting a hearing, while the forest department has given us the go ahead,” Kulkarni said.Since the road is part of the urban stretch and not a complete highway, there are several utility lines which have still not been moved, he added.The PWD official is confident that the project will be finished within deadline after an extension of six months was announced by the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/labour-migration-delays-metro-and-highway-projects/story-MMXzfW1uokWsp7yg4USMNJ.html
23-05-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Delhi govt demarcates 14 new containment zones, total goes up to 92||The Delhi government has demarcated 14 new containment zones across south-west, north, north-west and south-east districts, government official said on Friday.Six new containment zones were added in the south-west district after 39 Covid-19 cases were reported in a cluster from Vikaspuri, Palam and Kanganheri village in the last few days.According to officials of the south-west district administration, of the six containment zones, three are located in Vikaspuri, two in Palam and one in Kanganheri village.The newly added containment zones are Deep Enclave Part-2, Vikaspuri; DG3 Block, Vikas Puri; Kanganheri Village; Puran Nagar, Palam Colony; F-Block, Vikaspuri; and Gali number 46, Sadh Nagar, Palam Colony .“Four Covid-19 cases were reported from Deep Enclave, seven from DG3 block Vikaspuri, eight from Kanganheri village, four from Puran Nagar, eight from F-block Vikaspuri and eight more from Sadh Nagar in Palam Colony. These cases were reported in the last 3-4 days. The containment operations were started 2-3 days back,” an official at the office of the district magistrate (south-west) said on Friday.Apart from six containment areas in southwest district, the other new containment zones are EE-Block Jahangirpuri, E2 block Jahangirpuri, Lal Bagh In Azadpur, D-1 block Jahangirpuri, JJ Camp Badli, C-block Mangolpuri, Naharpur Village in northwest district and Sunlight Colony-1 in southeast district.Total number of containment zones is now 92. The government also decontained one area B-Block New Ashok Nagar in east Delhi. The government has till now de-contained 34 areas in the city where no fresh Covid-19 cases have been reported in the last 28 days.Containment zones comprise apartment blocks, gated communities, slums, streets, even entire neighbourhoods. They are complete quarantine zones and no one is allowed to step out even to buy essential goods such as milk, vegetables, fruits etc. All the entry and exit points and even the internal lanes are barricaded. The authorities allow only a number of selected vendors to supply groceries and other essentials to the neighbourhood with the help of RWA and civil defence volunteers.In an order, Rahul Singh, district magistrate (south-west), said that the cluster containment strategy would be to contain the disease within a defined geographical area via the early detection of cases, breaking the chain of transmission and thus preventing its spread to new areas. “This would include geographic quarantine, social distancing measures, enhanced active surveillance, testing suspected cases, isolation of cases, quarantine of contacts and risk communication to create awareness among the public on preventive public health measures,” Singh said.He said all the concerned officials had been directed to ensure the availability of essentials and basic necessities such as food, medical facilities, sanitation, etc.The administration officials said that a buffer zone would be made around each containment zone where banners and posters would be pasted to make people aware of the containment zone.“Medical authorities will test owners and employees working at grocery and medical stores for Covid-19,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/six-new-containment-zones-demarcated/story-0IR0u2l4ypzVsH5K1gJkdN.html
23-05-2020||Delhi||Locals in Delhi’s Shahadra loot mangoes from a fruit seller’s crates||A group of locals on Thursday afternoon looted mangoes from a few crates that a fruit vendor had left behind following a quarrel with some rickshaw pullers in Shahadra. Police on Friday registered a case of robbery and have identified some of the miscreants who robbed the fruit seller, senior officials said.According to the police, the mango seller, who wished to remain anonymous, had come to Shahadra and had put up his cart under a tree, when some cycle rickshaw pullers also arrived at the spot.“The vendor asked the rickshaw pullers to park a little ahead of his cart. This led to an argument between him and the rickshaw pullers, who then called some locals too to the spot for help. On this, the fruit seller fled the area with his cart and left few crates of mangoes behind,” said a senior police officer.Later, a few local residents and passersby stopped by the crates and asked the rickshaw pullers where the fruit vendor was. “On this, the rickshaw pullers apparently told them that they could have the mangoes for free as the seller has fled the area. They even called other locals and told them to take the mangoes,” the police officer said.Soon a crowd gathered at the spot and emptied out the crates and fled with the mangoes.A video of the incident was shared widely on social media on Friday. The video shows at least 30-40 people crowding around the mango crates in violation of all social distancing norms. The traffic on the road was also affected because of locals who had gathered to collect the mangoes.The fruit seller on Friday told police that at least ₹30,000 worth mangoes were looted from morebthan 8-10 crates of fruits he had left behind. Deputy commissioner of police (Shahadra) Amit Sharma said the incident was reported to the police and the mango vendor was tracked. “We assured him of action and on his complaint, we have registered a case of robbery. We have identified 2-3 miscreants and efforts are on to nab them,” the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-shahadra-locals-loot-mangoes-from-a-fruit-seller-s-crates-police-register-case-of-robbery/story-4GZztTnNBudCD7UBNWvTEM.html
23-05-2020||Pune||Elected members install sanitiser dispensers near community toilets in Pune slums||PUNE Elected members of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) have installed hands-free sanitiser dispensers at crowded places and mainly near community toilets in slums which are Covid-19 (coronavirus) containment zones.To contain the spread of Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 (coronavirus) infection Pune Municipal Corporation installed such dispensers at Tadiwala Road and Nagpur Chawl slums. Taking inspiration from the civic body many elected members of PMC have now installed such dispensers in slum areas which are falling in their jurisdiction.Ashwini Kadam, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) member has installed ten such dispensers in Sahakarnagar and Padmavati areas.Kadam said, “Many Covid-19 patients are emerging in Taljai and other nearby slums. By considering that we are installing such dispensers near slums and mainly near community toilets.”“We are hoping that PMC should allow considering this expenditure from the ward development fund otherwise we will pay it from our pockets,” said Kadam.Such dispensers have also been installed in Karvernagar area.BJP members Jayant Bhave, Manjushree Khardekar and Dipak Pote have demanded that the PMC should allow installing such hands-free sanitiser dispensers at various crowded places as it would help to contain Covid-19 cases.Elected members from other wards have said that they should be allowed to install such hands-free sanitiser dispensers in their respective areas from their ward development funds.A regional ward officer on anonymity said that they had installed such machines at shelter homes at quarantine centres. “The decision of allowing the expenditure from ward development fund will be taken at senior-level officers,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/elected-members-install-sanitiser-dispensers-near-community-toilets-in-slums/story-GbUw8grLib56kCUqgj6eoL.html
23-05-2020||Pune||Hospital discharges Covid-19 positive patient within 5 days; probe ordered||A private hospital in Pune has readmitted a Covid-19 patient discharged after just five days of admission. The patient tested positive for the Sars-Cov-2 virus. The district administration has now initiated an inquiry into the matter after the woman reached home leading to panic among the residents in her neighbourhood in Rakshewadi, Khed taluka. The hospital maintained that the discharge took place as per the new protocols since the patient was asymptomatic. Dr Bhagwan Pawar, district health officer said the 35-year-old female patient was readmitted to Jehnagir Hospital for treatment. “We are now looking into what could have caused the early discharge. Let the report come out, only then we can speak of any further action if required,” he said. Dr (Col) Satyajit S Gill, medical director at Jehangir Hospital said he was aware of the case and wouldn’t like to comment as a formal enquiry is on.Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer of Pune Zilla Parishad said, “The patient was admitted at Jehangir hospital on May 17 and tested positive for the infection. However, the person was asymptomatic and was discharged by the hospital on May 21 without informing the district administration about the same. When she reached home just five days after admission, the neighbours raised an alarm and we got to know about the case. The woman reached home in a private vehicle even though we have 108 ambulances for patients sent home from the hospital during discharge.”The administration has now constituted a two-member inquiry committee to look into the matter, said Prasad. As of May 21, Pune has had 4,107 Covid-19 positive cases and a total of 227 deaths. The latest Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) discharge policy states that any Covid-19 positive patient with mild or moderate symptoms can be discharged on 10th day if there is no fever three days prior to discharge. The policy does not call for a second re-confirmation test before discharge but states that the person has to compulsorily go for home quarantine for the next seven days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hospital-discharges-covid-19-positive-patient-within-5-days-probe-ordered/story-zGbpeJZvKRIxU37YmutsZJ.html
23-05-2020||Pune||Pimpri Chinchwad industrial town exits Covid-19 red zone; public buses from May 26||The Pimpri Chinchwad industrial township which was part of the Covid-19 Pune red zone district, has exited the red zone with new guidelines announced by municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar on Friday. The new guidelines that came into effect from Friday (May 22) will continue until May 31. Mayor Usha ( Mai) Dhore and Hardikar took to the Facebook page of the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation’s (PCMC) Smart Sarathi to announce the new guidelines and interact with the residents. While Pimpri-Chinchwad had 254 Covid-19 positive cases as of May 21, Pune had a total of 4,107 cases and 227 deaths. As PCMC was declared exempt from the Red Zone, and with the new guidelines in place, the bazaar areas were seen soon filling with people. The shops in Pimpri and Chinchwad had opted to use odd and even dates to manage shoppers and social distancing. Though housemaids are allowed, several of the societies have taken a decision to not allow domestic helpers until May 31. Daily solitary walks, resumption of local transport bus service (PMMPL) from May 26 with 50 percent passengers in non-containment zones, private four wheelers, taxi, radio cabs and autorickshaws with restricted number of occupants have been allowed. Driver and two passengers in four wheelers; one person on two wheelers and one person in autorickshaws have been allowed. Masks will be mandatory in public places and people will be penalized for not following the rules. Children will be allowed outside homes but not for playing or with sports equipment. The civic commissioner appealed to the residents to keep the children below 10 years indoors and encourage senior citizens above 60 years to walk in the balcony or building passage rather than outdoors. Housemaids have been allowed in non-containment areas with masks, sanitization/washing of hands and social distancing.Schools, colleges, other educational institutions; hotels, swimming pools and malls will remain closed. Those wanting to travel by air will need the permission of the home department. Factories in the PCMC industrial zones have been allowed 100 per cent workforce and private offices, 50 percent. People from red zone areas won’t be allowed to travel to the PCMC.The micro-containment lockdown rules will continue to be enforced in areas such as Kharalwadi, Shivneri colony (Pimple Gurav), Rupeenagar, Gandharv nagari (Moshi), Pimple Saudagar’s Subhashree Society, Sai Paradise, Phugewadi, Akurdi, Pimple Gurav, Kavadenagar, Bhosari, Old Sangavi, Kalewadi, Rahatne, Wakad, Kaspate Vasti, Thergaon, Chinchwad station area, Kiwale, Moshi, Bankar Chowk, Dighi, Talawade, Chikhli, Pimpri and Bhatnagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pimpri-chinchwad-industrial-town-exits-covid-19-red-zone-public-buses-from-may-26/story-lnBclANcLZqzFRXynDeECI.html
23-05-2020||Pune||2nd organ donation in Pune during lockdown; liver, kidneys and cornea retrieved from 36-yr-old||The city saw its second organ donation in the on-going lockdown period of the last two months when the family of a brain dead person agreed to donate organs. The liver, kidneys and cornea of the 36-year-old youth were retrieved. Organ donations have seen a drastic fall due to a variety of reasons such as non-availability of organs and vehicle movement restrictions due to which recipients have been unable to travel. Fear of infection has also kept recipients away from hospitals and most surgeries have been cancelled as hospitals are now pre-occupied by Covid-19 patients. The Pune Zonal Transplant Coordination Committee said the 36-year-old from Wanowrie was declared brain dead at Inamdar Hospital following ruptured aneurysm leading to fatal complications. An aneurysm is the enlargement of an artery caused by weakness in the arterial wall. The liver was successfully transplanted on May 20 at Inamdar Hospital on a 48-year-old patient from Wagholi suffering from chronic liver disease with a history of jaundice one year back. The kidneys and cornea were transported to other hospitals. The donor was a cashier by profession.ZTCC Coordinator, Aarti Gokhale said, “This is the second transplant in the city post-lockdown, first which took place on 14 May and the second on Wednesday. One kidney was allocated to Birla Hospital, Pune and the other kidney sent to HN Reliance Hospital Mumbai through the state and regional organ and tissue transport organisation (Sotto/Notto), Mumbai.”The transplant was carried out in a special transplant room to ensure all precautions to prevent any viral infections.Gokhale said it was to the credit of the relatives that they came forward for a noble cause in spite of the Covid-19 crisis to give the greatest gift of life to the needy.“The doctors ensured that they took utmost precautions to avoid the risk of any infection in times of pandemic. Both the recipient and the donor were tested for Covid-19 and once it came negative we started with the surgery in a special transplant room and personal protective equipment for the staff,” Gokhale said. The team of doctors at Inamdar Hospital included liver transplant surgeons Dr Bipin Vibhute and Dr Harshal Rajekar, assistant transplant surgeon Dr Abhijeet Mane , transplant anaesthetists Dr Manish Pathak , Dr Nikhil Hiremath and Dr Sandeep Patil and transplant coordinator Nitin Dushing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2nd-organ-donation-in-pune-during-lockdown-liver-kidneys-and-cornea-retrieved-from-36-yr-old/story-fuG6IU7CvgqAVSEKw1ezYK.html
