29-05-2020||City||Plumber travels on truck from Maharashtra for 5 days to reach West Bengal||The only reason 27-year-old Salim Laibh and his family travelled by truck for five days to reach their village in West Bengal, is that they had run out of options. “We ran out of money and other essentials that are necessary for everyday life,” said Laibh, who is now at an isolation centre in Bengal’s Cooch Behar district.Laibh lived with his brother, sister-in-law and their one-year-old daughter in a chawl in Panvel. Before the lockdown left him without work, he was a plumber associated with a number of housing societies in the area. As Covid-19 spread, the Laibhs grew nervous. Not only were they stretched for cash, every day there were rumours of people from their chawl contracting Covid-19. When the Shramik Special trains were announced in early May, Laibh was initially hopeful. “It is not that I didn’t try to travel by train, but for a long time the police officers kept saying the trains are not going to Howrah as of now. So, the registration process couldn’t be started,” said Laibh.Ultimately, the family decided to travel by truck. “We coughed up ₹3,500 per head to travel to the village,” said Laibh, adding that their departure was delayed because there were “many cancellations”.On May 17, Laibh, his brother, sister-in-law and their one-year-old daughter, began their journey to Bengal on a small truck crammed with 20 others like them. The truck would be their home for the next five days. The journey took longer than expected because the truck driver chose a roundabout route to avoid being detected by cops. Occasionally, they would wait for sunset so that they could evade highway patrols.There wasn’t enough space for all of them to lie down so the travellers set up a rotation system: some stood for hours so that others could stretch their legs, and then others stood so that the first group could lie down. “Among so many people, nobody knew who might be infected. We were all terrified,” said Laibh.In addition to the summer heat, there was soon a shortage of food. Most of the shops along the highways were closed because of the lockdown. “While we could bear the heat and hunger, the little one was cranky throughout the way,” said Laibh, remembering his one-year-old niece. “She was not drinking milk. It was really difficult to manage her,” he said.The only respite came once the sun set. Laibh remembers sitting in the truck and waiting for the cool breeze at night.The Laibhs reached their village on May 22 and have since been living in a school that has been converted into the local isolation centre. Laibh hopes to come back to Mumbai soon.“I have a very small plot here. But farming is not enough. There is no industry. I will definitely come back once the situation is normal in Mumbai,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/plumber-travels-on-truck-from-maharashtra-for-5-days-to-reach-west-bengal/story-stixeEcfPx4rYx57GBliFJ.html
29-05-2020||Mumbai||SevenHills nurse assaulted in Wadala, three booked||Three members of a family were booked by Wadala police on Friday for assaulting a 21-year-old nurse working with SevenHills Hospital in Andheri (East) with a wooden bat. According to Wadala police, the incident took place on May 24 after the nurse scolded the 10-year-old daughter of her neighbour for stopping the nurse’s two-and-a-half-year-old nephew from entering the house saying he would spread Covid-19.The minor was stopped because the nurse was working at a hospital which was treating Covid-19 patients, said police officers. “When the neighbour, Ahmed, heard his daughter being scolded, he came out, abused the nurse and told her that it was because of her that the virus was spreading. Later Ahmed’s wife Hajra and daughter came out and assaulted her,” said a police officer.The accused pulled her hair and banged her head against a wall, then Ahmed got a bat from his house and hit the nurse. The nurse suffered injuries to the right side of her head and admitted to KEM Hospital till Friday, added the officer.Shahaji Shinde, senior inspector at Wadala police station, said, “We had initially registered a non-cognisable offence after her mother complained. On Friday, the nurse came to the police station and recorded her statement. We have registered an FIR under sections 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons), 504 (intentional insult, and thereby provoking any person, intending or knowing it to be likely that such provocation will cause him to break the public peace), and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code, and are investigating the case.”After the nurse shared her video with head injuries on Twitter, BJP MLA Ram Kadam tweeted the video which went viral on social media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sevenhills-nurse-assaulted-in-wadala-three-booked/story-fcuNucEfsSASW0R16lH94N.html
29-05-2020||Mumbai||No pilgrimage to Pandharpur this year; state to ferry ‘padukas’ by road or air to keep up tradition||There will be no ashadi wari or pilgrimage to Pandharpur this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic, but to keep up with the age-old tradition the state government has worked out a compromise to ferry the ‘padukas’ by road or air to the temple.In a meeting held on Friday between deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and trustees of Alandi, Dehu and Pandharpur temples and other district officials, it was decided that the procession on foot will not be carried out. Every year, lakhs of devotees of the warkari sect go on a pilgrimage by foot to Vithoba temple in Pandharpur from Alandi (place of worship and samadhi of Sant Dyaneshwar) and Dehu (place of worship of Sant Tukaram) ahead of Ashadi Ekadashi.However, as all religious events and celebrations have been banned in public due to Covid-19, the government did not want to allow a procession of lakhs of devotees on July 1. Warkari sect is a religious movement traced to the Bhakti tradition which has a large following in Maharashtra. “Ashadi wari is an age-old tradition and we want to ensure that it is not broken. The government will ferry the padukas (footprints of saints) of all those trusts and organisations that are so allowed by district collectors, superintendent of police etc, by air in helicopters or by road in buses to Pandharpur a day before Ekadashi. The final decision on going by air will be taken depending on the weather forecast then,” said Pawar.He said, “No procession or palki will be carried out without permission from district collector. Everyone should take darshan of the deity on TV sitting at home.” He also thanked the trusts for taking a pro-active role. “We welcome the decision taken by the government,’’ said Vikas Dhage Patil, trustee of the Sant Dyaneshwar Maharaj Trust Committee.BJP state chief Chandrakant Patil said, “We welcome the decision of the government to take the padukas of the seven palkis to Pandharpur by road or air. Devotees must follow the government guidelines during the Covid-19 pandemic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/no-pilgrimage-to-pandharpur-this-year-state-to-ferry-padukas-by-road-or-air-to-keep-up-tradition/story-RNWdJFkriGIMSQB0VtYBpO.html
29-05-2020||Delhi||How community radios are helping fight Covid-19||It is a sweltering afternoon and Imran Khan has just started another episode of ‘Corona Se Jang, Radio Mewat Ke Sang’, a live programme, in his thick Mewati accent. “You are listening to Radio Mewat 90.4MGz. With you is your friend Imran Khan. Namaste and aadaab to all of you. Today we have with us psychologist Satish Kaushik. We will talk to him about the mental stress caused by the ongoing coronavirus crisis.”Imran is a reporter and presenter at Radio Mewat, a community radio station in Mewat, one of over a dozen such stations in and around Delhi that have been airing special Covid-19 community-oriented and community-produced programmes.In fact, community radios such as Radio Mewat and Alfaz-e-Mewat, which together broadcast to over 300 villages in Mewat, bordering Gurugram, have served as important sources of information and a bridge between the community and the local administration during the coronavirus crisis. This is important in a region where literacy rates are among the worst in the country and owning a television is looked down upon for religious reasons. Last year, Mewat district (now officially called Nuh) was Haryana’s only district to figure in the Niti Aayog’s list of the 111 most backward districts of the country.In the past two months, Imran, one of nine reporter-presenters, including two women, at Radio Mewat, has been shuttling almost every day between Mewat’s villages, government offices and hospitals, conducting interviews with local authorities, doctors and the village sarpanch. “We have been at the forefront of the fight against Covid-19 in the Mewat region. Being a community radio, it is our duty to keep the community informed during the pandemic, and bring their concerns to the fore,” says Imran, who hails from Gandhi Gram Ghasera, a village in Mewat named so because, after Partition, Mahatma Gandhi had visited Ghasera village in December 1947 to convince the local Muslim community to stay in India.“Senior district officials see us as partners in fighting Covid-19 in the region and often call us to record their messages. We were able to build trust between the locals, most belonging to the ethnic Meo-Muslim community and the administration,” adds Imran, who often walked 7km from his village to reach the radio’s studio in Nuh town during the lockdown. Sohrab Khan, 46, another reporter-presenter, says calls from the listeners at the station’s landline phone have increased manifold, with callers asking all kinds of questions about Covid-19. “We have tied up with several doctors and other experts who answer their questions during our live and recorded programmes,” says Sohrab, who is currently hosting a programme on the problems the migrants who have returned to villages in Mewat are facing. “I am taking their issues to elected representatives and the local administration, both personally and through my programmes.”Farheen, 21, one of the two women at Radio Mewat, who hosts ‘Hinsa Ko No’, featuring stories of domestic violence, says that a lot of women have been calling to complain of domestic violence during the lockdown. “They say that their husbands are home all the time and beat them over small things like cooking, often threatening them with divorce. We try to counsel these women, and in many cases, personally visit them to resolve the issues. Besides, a lot of women call us with questions about pregnancy and delivery during the lockdown,” says Farheen, who has studied up to Class 12. “It feels great when women in villages recognise my voice and often compliment me. I am happy that my parents allowed me to work as a reporter, ignoring protests from my relatives, in a conservative region where women are not allowed to step out.” Archana Kapoor, founder, Radio Mewat, says the radio’s programmes during the Covid-19 crisis have been aimed at awareness, prevention and safety of local communities. “Besides, we have also been fighting myths, misinformation and rumours that spread fast in this area,” says Kapoor.Alfaz-e-Mewat, the other community radio in the region too has been an important platform for villagers in Mewat to access information and public services in times of Covid-19. It has its studios in Ghaghas, a village tucked deep in the heart of Mewat, with the Aravalli range of mountains forming a beautiful backdrop. It has four reporters/radio jockeys, including a woman reporter, all of whom belong to nearby villages.When the first lockdown began, the radio station started a special programme ‘21 Din 21 Baatein’ (21 Days, 21 Messages) followed by another programme ‘19 Din Aur Sambhalke’ (Be Careful for Another 19 Days) as the lockdown extended. Every day, the station broadcasts three hours of Covid-19–related programmes such as ‘Gaon Ki Chaupal’ and ‘Aaj Ka Hero’, the story of an individual adopting best Covid-19 preventive practices.“We have also aired several folk songs in local languages around themes of social distancing and isolation to educate people. In ‘Gaon Ki Chaupal’, we regularly provide information about various government schemes during Covid-19 such as the direct transfer of ₹500 to women who are Jandhan account holders under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PM-GKY), and the increased wages under MGNREGA, and how to get work under it. We are villagers’ friends and guides, and they trust us since we are from the community,” says Shakir Hussain, 30, a reporter and RJ with Alfaz-e-Mewat. “These days a lot of our listeners complain that my voice has changed for the worse. I explain to them it could because I speak with a mask on. I never imagined that a mask would come between an RJ and the mike,” says Hussain. The radio’s other popular Covid-19 programmes include ‘Saavdhan’, which warns people against fake news about Covid-19 on social media.The local administration is all praise for the community radios in the area. “They have a great connection with people in the Mewat region, and they help us quickly put out updates and stop rumours. During the lockdown, whenever needed, I simply called the stations and recorded my messages, which were played immediately on the radio. Their programming is in local languages and for them, local issues are most relevant,” says Pankaj (known by his first name only), the deputy commissioner of Nuh district.Beyond Mewat too, there are several community radio stations such as the Noida-based Salaam Namaste and the Gurugram-based Gurgaon Ki Awaaz that have been running a range of Covid-19-related community-oriented programmes. Salaam Namaste, the first community radio station of Noida and Ghaziabad, has been airing programmes such as ‘Doc on Radio’, which offers free tele-consultations with doctors; ‘Health From Home’, a programme providing tips by pulmonologists on the prevention of Covid-19 and ‘Corona Salaam,’ aimed at distance education for local underprivileged children. “There has been a 40% increase in our listenership during the Covid-19 crisis. We host a mix of health and education programmes and worked closely with local communities as well as RWAs,” says Barsha Chabaria, station head, Salaam Namaste. There are around 300 community radio stations across the country. Last week, Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting Prakash Javadekar interacted with these community radio stations, praised their role during the pandemic, and promised to unveil a plan for the expansion of community radios in the country. “We mostly depend on donations; what we need is financial support to stay alive,” says Kapoor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/how-community-radios-are-helping-fight-covid-19/story-ayZfnpitU3OMoG8FYoRVoM.html
29-05-2020||City||KDMC official, peon test positive||A deputy municipal commissioner and a peon of the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. A doctor from KDMC’s health department tested positive on Tuesday, following which, tests of 25 staffers were conducted. A 55-year-old deputy municipal commissioner, who was a high-risk contact of the doctor, and the 30-year-old peon tested positive. “Both of them are asymptomatic. We suspect the peon was infected from outside. We have decided to test his mother too,” said Pratibha Panpatil, epidemic officer, KDMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kdmc-official-peon-test-positive/story-nYKH9LlvYq3AMdnCh5HACN.html
29-05-2020||Mumbai||Discharged after testing negative, cop dies within hours||Two more police personnel, constables from Dahisar and Bandra police stations, succumbed to Covid-19, taking the toll in Mumbai Police to 16. So far, 25 police personnel from the state have died of Covid-19.The 53-year-old constable from Bandra police station had tested positive on May 16. He was admitted to a Covid care unit in Worli and discharged on May 28, after he tested negative for Covid-19. His health deteriorated within hours of being discharged. He was again rushed to Nair hospital around 1am on Friday, where he passed away. “We are conducting an inquiry,” said Naval Bajaj, joint commissioner (admin).A video of the constable walking towards his home in a fragile state, while being applauded by residents, went viral. One of his colleagues raised questions over his discharge. “What was the hurry to discharge him? Also, the ambulance did not drop him till home. He had to walk a long distance to reach home. He was weak and unable to walk,” he said.The constable is survived by his wife and two children, aged 20 and 19.The second constable, from Dahisar police station, was admitted to JJ hospital, but was never tested for Covid-19. “The 53-year-old had gone on leave for 10 days. He started suffering from breathing issues and was admitted to JJ hospital. He died on May 26, after which his swab samples were taken. His reports came positive on May 27,” said Hanif Mujawar, senior inspector of Dahisar police station.He is survived by his wife, two daughters and a son.Till Friday morning, 2,211 personnel have been infected, of which 970 have recovered. Of the 2,211, 1,962 are constables.Meanwhile, till Friday, 800 trains have been operated to facilitate return of 11.5 lakh stranded migrants to their respective states, a senior Indian Police Service (IPS) officer. Only those who want to go to West Bengal are left in Mumbai owing to the Cyclone Amphan and would be sent soon. With very few migrants left, registration of applicants for Shramik special trains has dropped drastically. “Some of the stranded migrants who had registered themselves for Shramik special trains are now backing off and opting to stay back in the city as their employers have assured them regular supply of food and work. On Thursday, 11 trains were to be run from Mumbai, but as migrants backed off, only three trains were operated,” said a senior police officer.Amitabh Gupta, principal secretary (special) and head of the three-member committee formed for stranded migrants, said, “The Mantralaya staff (over 1,400 state government employees), who were given the task to assist police force in registration process of migrants, have been asked to return to their office after May 31, as very few stranded migrants are left.”Also, a total of 28 FIRs were registered on Thursday against 76 people, of which 47 were arrested for lockdown violations. A maximum of seven FIRs were for not wearing masks and six for gathering in one place. Another 12 FIRs were for different types of violations and three were against shops operating despite being non-essential services. Nine FIRs each were lodged by south and central region, while six of them were in west region. Remaining few were in north (1 FIR) and east region (3 FIR).Thirteen members of Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) from Andheri were booked by Andheri police station for protesting outside BMC ‘K-East’ ward office complaining against unavailability of beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/discharged-after-testing-negative-cop-dies-within-hours/story-l0i5Kp5ZDrcB2bl3KN00AJ.html
29-05-2020||Mumbai||Congress, BJP trade barbs over fares of special trains for migrants||The Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders traded barbs at each other again on Friday over the issue of ticket fares of Shramik Special trains for migrants travelling back to their hometowns. Maharashtra Congress general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant said Solicitor General Tushar Mehta on Thursday in an affidavit had informed the Supreme Court that the entire cost of the tickets for the Shramik Special trains is being borne by states. He has also alleged that the information submitted to the court exposed the Modi government, as its ministers and BJP leaders have been claiming that the Centre is bearing 85% of the ticket fare.Sawant said,“BJP’s hypocrisy has been exposed and party state president Chandrakant Patil should immediately apologise to the people for the false claim he made.” Sawant’s statements were countered by former Mumbai BJP chief and senior leader Ashish Shelar, who termed the Congress leader was a “factory of blatant lies” and the fresh allegation was also a part of it. “The cost to run a train ranges between ₹30 lakh and ₹50 lakh, depending on the distance it covers. The running cost per passenger and the current fare charged for each passenger travelling on the Shramik trains is in the ratio of 85:15. Even in the information submitted to the court, Tushar Mehta has clarified that the entire ticket fare [which is 15% of the cost of running a train] is being borne by the states. This mathematics cannot be discussed in the court as everybody is aware of it and even railways officials have clarified it time and again,” Shelar said.Union ministers Prakash Javadekar and Nirmala Sitharaman, as well as Patil, had also earlier reiterated that 85% of the fares of the trains had been borne by the Centre. Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh and transport minister Anil Parab had then lashed out at the Centre and claimed that the entire cost of the ticket fare had been borne by the state. The state government has made a budgetary allocation of ₹100 crore for the cost of ticket fares for migrants and claimed that it has sent more than 10.5 lakh migrants back to their home states in over 650 trains departed from various stations over past three weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/congress-bjp-trade-barbs-over-fares-of-special-trains-for-migrants/story-m0ZK8XpAIMmzYhQuR5dHMJ.html
29-05-2020||City||KDMC gets robot to serve food to Covid patients||A robot, donated to the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC), will serve food and water to Covid patients at Holy Cross Hospital in Kalyan. Pratik Tirodkar, a 23-year-old instrumentation engineer from Dombivli, created the robot and donated it to KDMC. “The robot can serve water and food to 10 to 15 patients at a time. I built the robot as many health workers are getting infected,” said TirodkarOn Friday, Tirodkar gave a demo of the robot at the KDMC headquarters.“We have decided to use the robot at Holy Cross Covid hospital and see how feasible it is,” said Suryavanshi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kdmc-gets-robot-to-serve-food-to-covid-patients/story-TeWrOhwQPkFhNXcduOhppJ.html
29-05-2020||Mumbai||Volunteers of a group in Mumbai launch website to help non-Covid patients find hospital beds||Even as the fight against the coronavirus outbreak in the city is on war footing, non-Covid patients are finding it difficult to find hospital beds. In a bid to tackle the problem, not-for-profit group Project Mumbai collaborated with the civic body to launch a website to help patients suffering from health problems other than coronavirus to find a bed at a hospital near them.Project Mumbai’s website currently lists 46 hospitals across the city, with details of the facilities (paediatric, neurology, oncology, orthopaedic and dialysis) provided by them as well as the availability of beds there. The list is updated twice a day. Shishir Joshi, the founder of group, said there are 25 volunteers working with him, and the list is updated twice daily. “While most of the hospitals are currently occupied by Covid patients, other patients don’t know how and whom to approach in cases of other medical emergencies. So we decided to get a list of hospitals from BMC [Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation] which can cater to other patients and contacted them. Every volunteer is assigned with three hospitals and they remain in touch with the officials of the hospital,” said Joshi. He said they were provided with a list of around 75 hospitals by BMC, of which 46 agreed to be a part of the initiative. “The list will be updated if more medical institutions reach out to us. We provided our contact details to them. It is a completely free service,” Joshi added.A fellowship student with BMC, who helped Project Mumbai with the information, said it was a joint initiative of fellows working for government organisations and the group.“A friend’s mother passed away after she failed to get timely medical help because hospitals don’t accept patients without Covid test. That’s when some of us, who are working as fellows for the government, informed BMC and provided Project Mumbai with the information of these hospitals,” said an associate working with BMC. He added that there are plans to provide this information on BMC’s Covid helpline 1916 in the coming days, once the number of queries related to coronavirus is brought under control. “We are swarmed with Covid-related queries on the helpline. So if Project Mumbai is able to reach out to non-Covid patients , then it is a welcome step,” said a fellow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/volunteers-of-a-group-in-mumbai-launch-website-to-help-non-covid-patients-find-hospital-beds/story-YV1eW0Qsc74ma8I1gjpg9K.html
29-05-2020||City||First cop from Thane to test positive resumes work||The 52-year-old senior inspector from Mumbra police station, who became the first cop from Thane to test positive for Covid-19, is now back on duty, with a message: “Follow lockdown rules to stop the spread of virus”.The officer, who resumed work after 45 days, suffered serious lung issues during his treatment. He was on oxygen support for six days. “I am lucky I am back. My three Covid-19 test reports were positive. I suffered from pneumonia, which affects the lungs. Thane police commissioner V Phansalkar and my colleagues used to call me every day. I have started visiting areas in Mumbra where I am creating awareness about the virus.”“I was taking all precautions before I came positive and even now. Asymptomatic people are dangerous carriers. I was taking vitamin C, using sanitizer and several other precautionary measures while on patrolling duty. I am doing the same now, including government’s suggestions such as ayurvedic tea, mask and social distancing. Have just added pranayam to my routine. I know people still don’t follow social distancing rules. I am doing my duty with energy to make sure at least 10 people are saved from contracting the infection.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/first-cop-from-thane-to-test-positive-resumes-work/story-rvY64Nr69rUEV6XJSWrJFK.html
29-05-2020||Delhi||46k construction workers traced so far for re-registration in Delhi govt’s monetary aid scheme||The Delhi government has so far traced around 46,000 construction workers in the city — who had failed to renew their registration with the welfare board for construction workers and, hence, fallen off the radar – and initiated their registration process, a senior official said on Friday.The official added that apart from this, around 15,000 other workers have so far applied to be enrolled through a portal, which was opened by the government last week.Between application and registration, there is a process of screening of documents and physical verification.Construction workers enrolled under the government’s welfare scheme are being given a monthly financial aid of Rs 5,000 – under guidelines issued by the Central government – for the ongoing lockdown that has been in place since March 25 to check the spread of Covid-19. The welfare board has so far transferred Rs 5,000 for the months of April and May each to around 40,000 registered workers, a senior government official said.Delhi’s labour minister Gopal Rai said, “The Delhi Government launched a website last week for registration of construction workers in the city. We have received very good response. The applications are being screened. We will soon be starting a verification drive following which the workers will be registered. The Covid-19 crisis has severely affected the livelihoods of many construction labourers and the Delhi government is taking all possible measures to support them.”On May 21, the Delhi High Court had said that construction workers in Delhi, who fell off the safety net under the watch of the city’s welfare board, cannot be deprived of benefits just because they were unable to renew their annual registrations.The court had then directed the Delhi Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board — which comes under the labour department of the government – to take steps to renew the membership of all workers in order to ensure that the associated benefits can help them cushion the loss of earnings caused by the restriction on activities under the lockdown.As on September 30, 2018, Delhi government records showed, the Board had around 5,40,000 registered construction workers.For the past one week, the government has been sending text messages in Hindi to the registered mobile numbers of construction workers whose names and contact details are registered in the state database. Following this, around 46,000 workers have so far approached the labour department by responding to the messages, said a senior government official.Meanwhile, around 15,000 more workers filled up the 12-page application form through the government portal. “Most of them are not digitally literate so they often take help of employers or small-time cyber café owners in their neighbourhood, paying anything between Rs 300-500. Some trade unions have requested the government to rather conduct a survey of construction sites and carry out the registration drive physically,” said Animesh Rai, a labour activist and member of Delhi’s minimum wages committee.Every state has sets of welfare schemes for construction workers, funded by cess collected from construction projects under the Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Cess Act, 1996. Under the law, a building worker is eligible for registration under such scheme only if the person has been engaged in construction work for not less than 90 days during the last 12 months. The registration has to be renewed annually.The application requires Aadhaar card details, Aadhaar numbers of their family members; present and permanent address proof; address of the last workplace where the applicant worked over 90 days; name and contact details of the contractor; details of the registered union of which the applicant is a member; colour photographs of self and family members; and details of bank account, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/46k-construction-workers-traced-so-far-for-re-registration-in-delhi-govt-s-monetary-aid-scheme/story-ARp20drZx3CqxJky12dsbL.html
29-05-2020||Mumbai||Spitting and smoking in public may land you in jail||The Maharashtra government on Friday ordered strict implementation of laws against spitting and smoking in public. It has directed to invoke the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 and the Indian Penal Code (IPC) to imprison repeat offenders from now on. Repeat offenders can face jail term from six months to a maximum of two years. The decision was taken in view of the fact that spitting in public will further spread Covid-19 infection.State public health minister Rajesh Tope said despite people being prohibited from spitting in public, they spit and attract fines under existing laws. “Spitting is also contributing in spreading Covid-19. Considering this, we have decided to implement the prohibitory laws more strictly. Repeat offenders will be jailed for a minimum of six months,” Tope said in his live address on Friday evening.The state government has already prohibited spitting under Bombay Police Act. Following Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act (COPTA), 2003, the state has also prohibited also smoking and a ban was also imposed on manufacture, storage, distribution, transport and sale of tobacco, scented supari in 2013. The offenders are currently fined ₹1,000 to ₹5,000 for first three offences of spitting and smoking in public following provisions under Bombay Police Act.Considering the pandemic, the health department has decided to invoke the Epidemic Diseases Act and IPC for strict implementation of the laws. Under section 269 of the IPC, offenders will have to face up to six months of imprisonment or fine or both, and under section 270, offenders will have to face prison term up to two years or fine or both, states the order issued by the state health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/spitting-and-smoking-in-public-may-land-you-in-jail/story-5tS281rfZVbtTkKBUSyWwL.html
29-05-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai BJP leaders to stage ‘silent agitation’ against state, BMC over their handling of Covid crisis||Alleging that the Maharashtra government and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) have failed to handle the Covid-19 crisis in the city, Bharatiya Janata Party leaders from Colaba have announced to stage a ‘silent agitation’ outside the civic body headquarters at Fort on Saturday at 11.30am. Rahul Narvekar, BJP legislator from Colaba, will be leading the agitation, along with other legislators from the area.“It will be a silent agitation until our demands are met. The BMC and the state have failed to address the issues of unavailability of beds in hospitals, inadequate testing and there are inconsistencies in BMC’s testing guidelines. BMC’s helpline 1916 has also been unable to provide hospital beds or ambulances to critical patients,” Narvekar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-bjp-leaders-to-stage-silent-agitation-against-state-bmc-over-their-handling-of-covid-crisis/story-BgJhCuScNcPk3KUghGzxuN.html
29-05-2020||Mumbai||₹50-lakh insurance for all Covid workers: Govt||The state government has decided to provide a comprehensive personal accident cover of ₹50 lakh to all employees who are on active duty in fighting the Covid-19 pandemic.While the Union ministry of health and family welfare has provided an insurance scheme for all healthcare workers across the country, the state scheme will cover others engaged in tackling the pandemic, from policemen and home guards to anganwadi and sanitation workers across state and district administration.The state finance department on Friday issued an order announcing the insurance cover.The order states that besides healthcare workers, other staffers ( such as district administration, police, home guards, anganwadi workers, finance and treasury, food and civil supply, water supply and sanitation) have also been deputed in Covid-related duties. “Therefore with a view to support such personnel in their active line of duty in fighting Covid-19 pandemic and to stand by their families in the event of their unfortunate loss of life, the government will provide comprehensive personal accident cover of ₹50 lakh to all employees, who are on active duty relating to survey, tracing, tracking, testing, prevention, testing, treatment, relief activities on account of Covid pandemic,” stated the order.The modalities for the insurance package are still being worked out and until it gets announced the government will cover the employees through an ex gratia payment of ₹50 lakh. The condition for this ex gratia or insurance is that the employee should have been on duty for 14 days prior to her hospitalisation or death. The medical certificate for such an employee is done by a government notified lab.However, this will not applicable to those covered by the Union government’s insurance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/50-lakh-insurance-for-all-covid-workers-govt/story-f6JR1mRtt00GPX8CSN1fhJ.html
29-05-2020||Mumbai||Can’t set up Covid test centre in each district: Govt to HC||Maharashtra government on Friday informed the Bombay high court (HC) it was not possible to set up full-fledged Covid-19 testing facilities in all districts and added that the government is fulfilling the guidelines issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to have one testing lab in a radius of 250 kilometres. The submission from the state in an unsigned note drew displeasure from the division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and Justice KK Tated.The court questioned the state on how it could put such a submission when the effects of the virus was widespread and said it was an ‘irresponsible’ statement. The bench further sought the presence of advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni. The advocate general admitted that it was wrong and that there should be testing facilities in each district, following which the court told the advocate general that such an approach by the state was not acceptable and asked for a responsible official to respond to the issue next week.The state submission came as a response to a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Khalil Ahmed Hasanmiya Wasta, a 58-year-old fisherman from Ratnagiri, who prayed for a full-fledged Covid-19 testing laboratory in Ratnagiri. The PIL claimed a testing facility was needed in the area as around 60,000 people had come back to the Konkan region which includes the districts of Ratnagiri, Raigad and Sindhudurg, from Mumbai and Pune since the government had allowed intra-state travelling. The petition went on to claim that before the travel ban was lifted there were only seven cases of Covid-19, which has increased to 108 since.The petition claimed that swab samples had be to send to Sangli and Miraj which are around 237 kilometres away from Ratnagiri, which led to a delay in results, thereby endangering the lives of locals.The state in its response informed the court that the work to set up a testing lab at Ratnagiri Civil Hospital was already underway as per a government resolution dated May 25, and that it would be functional within eight days.The state went on to submit that new laboratories could not be set up instantly as there were severe constraints in terms of availability of technical infrastructure in each district, and that as per ICMR standards a lab is required only in those areas where there are more than 100 suspected cases per day. The state, hence, claimed that there was no need to have a testing facility in each district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/can-t-set-up-covid-test-centre-in-each-district-govt-to-hc/story-bg7wT5ddqQbHM040JWEKpL.html
29-05-2020||Mumbai||Group raises ₹5.3 lakh to feed needy in Dharavi||Less than a month after a group of young people from Dharavi began collecting funds to address the hunger problem in Asia’s largest slum that is engulfed in the Covid-19 crisis, the group managed to get Rs 5.3 lakh in donations till Thursday. On May 7, HT had reported about how a group of youngsters, who identified themselves as Dharavi Boys, started a donations campaign to feed needy families in Dharavi who had no money and food at their disposal with Covid-19 cases in the slums rising day by day. The group has, since then, managed to get donations from across the world, with a lot of funds also pouring from abroad. “They have managed to feed hundreds of families since then and will continue to do so in the coming days. There are a lot of challenges in food distribution considering that most of their homes are tiny and the food supplies which are bought cannot be stored in big quantities. But they are still managing it very well,” said Stanley Anto, a Navi Mumbai-based activist who has been helping the group. In the last few weeks, the boys have also started taking up other activities like creating awareness drives and distributing masks and sanitisers. In the coming days, they plan to sanitise the tiny alleys of the congested slums where nearly 10 lakh people live. “Now we want to address other issues of health and sanitation also in addition to catering to the hunger problem. People here need a lot of help and support because there is so much fear around the disease,” said Vikas Jaiswar, a 24-year-old member of Dharavi Boys. As of Friday, there were a total of 1,715 positive cases reported in Dharavi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/group-raises-5-3-lakh-to-feed-needy-in-dharavi/story-6wcr2boe4HOmPMkaUVsUsO.html
29-05-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra may curtail its monsoon session to 4 days, take it online||In the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, the state government may curtail its monsoon session to four days and hold it online. It is scheduled to be held from June 22, as announced earlier. With the state under a lockdown for more than two months, and the restrictions likely to continue for a few more weeks in Mumbai and other cities, the state legislature and government has started to deliberate on plans for the session. The state legislature is looking at conducting it online, to reduce the footfall on Vidhan Bhavan premises, by allowing only a limited number of ministers and legislators. “We are looking at all options, including holding it online, partially online and in a staggered manner. Various online platforms are being tested for safety and efficiency too. Deferring it for a few more weeks is also an option, as the session can be held any time before September 14 (six months from the previous session). Conducting the session is necessary for budgetary provisions for Covid-19 related expenditure,” said an official from the parliamentary affairs department. The official said another problem is accommodation for legislators coming to Mumbai. He said that after Manora guesthouse was demolished a few months ago and the availability of flats at other guesthouses has reduced. “Availability of hotel rooms too seems to be difficult at present,” he said.Assembly Speaker Nana Patole met Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla early this week and discussed the options. “We may hold it at the Central hall for two days each for the Assembly and Council to maintain social distance. Conducting it online looks difficult. We may restrict entry and attendance of legislators and staff to ensure minimum possible footfall the premises and even in the houses. The final decision about the date and the ways it be conducted will be taken during the meeting of the business advisory committee on June 9,” said Patole. The state legislature has begun the proceedings required to conduct the session. The ballot for the choice of the questions to be raised was conducted through Zoom App recently. Meanwhile, Nana Patole rubbished the claim of change of guard in Maharashtra Congress. “This is not the right time to make any changes to the party leadership in the state,” he said. There were reports that Patole is likely to be appointed the state president and former chief minister Prithviraj Chavan is likely to replace him. Chavan too has said that he was not aware of any such move under consideration by the party leadership.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-may-curtail-its-monsoon-session-to-4-days-take-it-online/story-J0lHYU1h6EYqVmBWw1lX0I.html
29-05-2020||Mumbai||Water quality improved at coastal areas, Mithi river got more polluted during lockdown period: Report||Water quality at major beaches in the city witnessed an improvement during the lockdown. However, the Mithi river was more polluted than in pre-lockdown months and the corresponding period last year. The Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) released the water quality analysis of major rivers and coastal areas in and around Mumbai in April on Thursday.MPCB measured pollution levels using the water quality index (WQI), which provides a single number (grade) on overall water quality that is location and time-specific, and based on specific parameters (see box). While 38 or less is ‘bad to very bad’ or heavily polluted (red), 38-50 is ‘bad’ or polluted (orange); 50-63 is ‘medium to good’ or non-polluted (yellow); and 63-100 is ‘good to excellent’ (green). The Mithi and Mahim creek, into which the river flows, were the only two listed water bodies in the ‘heavily polluted’ category with pollution levels at 25.7 and 37.4 (red category). Versova, Juhu, Nariman Point, Gateway of India, Malabar Hill, Girgaum Chowpatty, Haji Ali, Shivaji Park Dadar and Worli Sea Face all recorded levels ranging from 51 and 58 (yellow category or non-polluted) in April. During January and February 2020 as well as in March and April 2019, Mahim creek was in the orange category while Mithi was in the red category. MPCB said there was an overall reduction in sewage load at marine outfalls. “There was a reduction in untreated domestic sewage coming from large hotels, offices, industries and activities from other establishments that were all shut during the first phase of the lockdown. Also, existing sewage treatment plants (STPs) functioned at optimal capacity along marine outfalls to treat waste efficiently, which was only coming from slums and households,” said YB Sontakke, joint director (water quality), MPCB.Prior to the lockdown, 2,671 million litres per day (MLD) of domestic waste was being generated in Mumbai of which 2,016 MLD was treated before being released into the sea, according to MPCB. This means 25% of the city’s sewage is entering the sea without any processing. “During the lockdown, total sewage generation fell by 450-500 MLD while the gap in treatment continued to be 25%. However, the daily sewage load entering Mithi was over 300 MLD,” said Sontakke.He added that water pollution in Mithi River continues to be a serious issue for Mumbai. “Owing to lesser water flow due to less desiliting activity during April, stagnation of water and low dilution led to higher pollution levels,” said Sontakke. “We are checking with the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) regarding desilting work and progress before monsoon.”A senior BMC official said, “Owing to lockdown restrictions, there was hardly any desilting work done during April (in the Mithi) but 80% work has now been completed. The May water quality should show an improvement for Mithi.” An independent expert said MPCB’s findings could be accurate, but the sample collection source needed to be checked. “Coastal water quality during pre-monsoon months is generally poor for Mumbai. The findings show a marked decline biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) — indicating the level of oxygen that aquatic life need for survival — and nitrate levels in coastal waters during April, which fell below safe standards due to less sewage load,” said professor AD Sawant, water quality analyst and member of Supreme Court committee on Mithi River rejuvenation. “The installation of STPs along Mithi River need to be expedited and all desilting activities need to be completed to ensure increased river flow and dilution to curb pollution,” said Sawant.Meanwhile, the water quality at Ulhas River, a major river providing water to Mumbai metropolitan region also improved to a non-polluted status based on samples collected from six regions along the river. “Apart from a drop in industrial effluents, other activities such as washing of vehicles, jeans washing units, service centres etc. all stopped, improving Ulhas water quality,” said Sontakke. However, other industrial zones like Tarapur MIDC, Rabodi nullah etc. recorded higher levels of pollution.Fewer water samples were collected during March owing to travel restrictions during the lockdown, while samples for May are being collected and published soon, said Sontakke.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/water-quality-improved-at-coastal-areas-mithi-river-got-more-polluted-during-lockdown-period-report/story-Q11XF5NrRWfV4xCV0M0g3O.html
29-05-2020||City||JNU begins taking exams online, students report difficulties||New Delhi: Students from the Jawaharlal Nehru University’s School of Environmental Sciences (SES) on Friday began their end-semester examinations in online mode amid the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. Out of the 13 schools in the varsity, SES was among the five which opted for the online method while deciding upon the modes of exams in April.“The faculty decided to conduct the exam through the online mode (email), even for the remaining students whenever they are able to appear. Most of the courses are going online or via email, and the faculty is able to transfer the knowledge through e-mode. It was decided that any students who miss the exam can appear later whenever the new date of (exams for) remaining students is announced,” the university had said earlier, in reference to the alternative academic plans for this year.Upon receiving the questions, students were asked to write the exam and send the answer sheets to their respective teachers by email within 24 hours. The 24-hour time frame was given keeping in mind the intermittent internet connectivity in some places.Students, however, said this was not enough. “There are students in Kashmir who don’t have the internet. We have students from other remote areas as well. The other students are not opposed to the move since they are getting 24 hours to complete the paper. This will enable them to secure passing marks more easily and ease their anxieties about the future. But online exams like these will reduce the quality of education and knowledge that we will be passing out with,” Raj Maurya, a PhD scholar and a student councillor at SES.Alaka Patra, a first-year PhD scholar from Odisha, is among the students facing issues in online exams and has written to the dean of SES, where she studies. “I was visiting home only for a week when the lockdown was announced. I don’t have my laptop and other reading material with me. Due to Cyclone Amphan, things have only worsened.”Patra said that even to send emails or download study material, she has to walk around her terrace for network. “I haven’t been able to look for reading material to write my paper due to an irregular network. Due to the cyclone, mobile network and electricity have also been intermittent. To write papers in such a situation is extremely challenging,” she said.SES Dean Umesh Chandra Kulshrestha, however, said exams have been conducted smoothly so far. “If any student has been unable to appear for their exam, we will look at the reason behind it and discuss at the faculty meeting and with the vice-chancellor. If the issue is genuine, we will help the student and retest might be taken.”Vice-chancellor M Jagadesh Kumar said the school had taken a “leap” in using digital platforms and lauded teachers and students “for this progressive and timely approach.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jnu-begins-taking-exams-online-students-report-difficulties/story-MBEFQmCMr6gnI0H58T22HP.html
29-05-2020||Mumbai||IIT-Bombay campus records its first Covid-19 death||Less than a month after the Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay (IIT-B) campus at Powai reported its first Covid-19 case after the wife of a staffer tested positive, another employee who was tested positive succumbed to the disease on Thursday.In a post shared on Friday evening, IIT-B director Subhasis Chaudhuri shared that the coronavirus took its first toll on campus. “This is a big loss to the IIT-B community and has been a big jolt that despite many precautions and the community’s help in maintaining the campus free of the virus, it found its way,” stated the director.“The staffer worked in the administrative wing and even though he had a house on campus, he lived outside the campus for the longest time. He entered the campus only a few days ago and his tests came positive two days ago,” said A K Suresh, deputy director of the institute. He added that the staff member died late on Thursday and the municipal officials were informed.“The BMC officials have taken care of sanitisation and requesting quarantine to whoever was in contact with the deceased,” he added.The institute stated that they have been very strict about keeping their campus safe for its residents, including over 5,000 staff members and less than 100 students. “We are sure this staffer did not contract the virus from the campus because he had entered the campus only a few days ago and was already showing symptoms of the virus,” added Suresh.In the first week of May, IIT-B authorities confirmed that the wife of an employee who worked as a health worker in a government hospital and had likely contracted the virus from a Covid-19 patient. Her husband, who is an IIT-B employee and their two children were quarantined while the wife was moved to a hospital for recovery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/iit-bombay-campus-records-its-first-covid-19-death/story-4nkduWy251N0QMR6bd4dZJ.html
29-05-2020||Delhi||HC asks govt to file affidavit on pleas against 70% corona fee||The Delhi High Court on Friday asked the government to file a detailed affidavit on a bunch of pleas challenging the government’s decision to levy 70% ‘special corona fee’ on the MRP of liquor of all brands in the city.A bench of chief justice D N Patel and justice Sangita Dhingra Seghal, conducting the hearing via video conferencing, heard part of the arguments and asked the government to file another detailed affidavit and listed the matter for further hearing on June 19.The Delhi government, in its earlier affidavit, had opposed the petitions that challenged a May 4 notification levying a ‘special corona fee’ on liquor in the national Capital and said there is an element of privilege via a viz sale/ dealing in liquor and the State is free to regulate it under the excise law.Earlier this month, after reports of massive crowding at the government-run liquor vends when they opened for business, the government had added a 70% special fee to the MRP of liquor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hc-asks-govt-to-file-affidavit-on-pleas-against-70-corona-fee/story-6IczVpHkNtsCE5bDkrGCYK.html
29-05-2020||Delhi||Allow shops in malls to open on odd-even basis: Govt to Centre||The Delhi government is likely to urge the centre to allow shops inside shopping malls to open on an odd-even basis as well as places of worship in residential areas, but not prominent ones that witness high footfall, for the lockdown period beyond May 31, a senior government official said on Friday.The government will request the Centre to allow all kinds of activities till 9pm. Currently, the movement of the general public, businesses and commercial activities are allowed between 7am and 7pm, the official said.The government is also likely to include requests such as allowing all shops in general markets to operate everyday.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had sent a similar set of requests to the central government before the onset of the fourth phase of the nationwide lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/allow-shops-in-malls-to-open-on-odd-even-basis-govt-to-centre/story-CU0pbvb2spa4QAV5CHLlnI.html
29-05-2020||Mumbai||Authorities step up efforts as new locust swarm enters Nagpur district||A new swarm of locusts entered Nagpur district on Friday forcing district officials to step up efforts to tackle the short-horned grasshoppers.The swarm in Vidarbha districts since May 24 has affected 135 hectares of fruit orchards and vegetable farms, said officials from the divisional agricultural department. However, the state agriculture department said there had been no damage to productive crops so far.“We were informed by our field officers that a fresh swarm entered from Amravati district into Katol tehsil, Nagpur. An existing swarm in this region was reported from Mauda tehsil (around 30 km from Katol),” said Ravindra Bhosale, divisional joint director, agriculture. “We are moving teams to carry out pesticide spraying across both areas as soon as we get the exact location where the swarms settle for the night,” he added. Around 50 hectares of fruit orchards, mainly oranges, and 35 hectares of vegetable farms have been affected across Katol, Kalmeshwar and Parseoni tehsils in Nagpur district. “There is minimal damage to vegetables, while locusts have been eating leaves of fruit trees, which would have otherwise fallen during flowering. Thus, farmers have not faced any economical losses so far,” said Bhosale, adding that these were just preliminary assessments.Subhash Nagare, divisional joint director agriculture (in-charge of Amravati) said close to 50 hectares were affected across Morshi and Warud talukas in Amravati district. “These are mostly orange orchards where pesticide spraying has been carried out. However, the situation is under control, with less number of locusts on Friday.”Suhas Diwase, state agriculture commissioner, said, “There is no crop damage anywhere in the sub-divison. Eating leaves across orchards does not amount to productive damage and loss of vegetables is minimal. Actual damage cannot be assessed in such circumstances. The entire machinery is busy with control measures. There are no instructions from the state so far to assess productive damage.”Meanwhile, the Maharashtra forest department has alerted the Pench Tiger Reserve (PTR) and buffer areas to inform authorities if they spot swarms. “This was done after receiving reports of locust swarms present in Parseoni and Ramtek tehsils of Nagpur, which are close to forest patches,” said Ravikiran Govekar, field director, PTR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/authorities-step-up-efforts-as-new-locust-swarm-enters-nagpur-district/story-ayjWaYR68UpKT1hSrQ3roL.html
29-05-2020||Mumbai||2002 murder case: Perjury proceedings against cop for failing to identify killers||In a rare instance, the Bombay high court recently ordered perjury proceedings against head constable Deepak Trivedi, who, as an eyewitness, failed to identify the men who murdered builder Swapnil Shirke alias Pintu, 30, on the premises of the sessions court in Nagpur in June 2002.Trivedi was the lone policeman escorting Shirke, an accused in a murder case, to the court. He was chased on the premises and stabbed multiple times by 10 men. Trivedi, too, was injured and hospitalised in the attack.In 2017, a division bench of the Supreme Court had dismissed an appeal by the accused and upheld the life sentence awarded to Congress corporator Vijay Krishnarao Mate and six others, including Raju Bhadre, Kiran Umrao Kaithe, Dinesh Gaiki, Umesh Dahake, Ritesh Gawande, and Kamlesh Nimbarte, by the Bombay high court. Four others arrested in the case were acquitted for want of evidence.In 2015, the Bombay high court while sentencing the accused to life imprisonment had initiated perjury proceedings against Trivedi for failing to identify the accused in the case, claiming the incident had happened 10 years ago. The HC had issued show-cause notice to the constable asking him why he should not be prosecutedTrivedi in his response to the high court notice had stated that he committed the mistake of not identifying some of accused because a period of ten years had lapsed when he testified before the trial court. He had sought pardon on the grounds that he had put in 22 years unblemished service and had been compulsorily retired.The division bench of justice NW Sambre and justice NB Suryawanshi took the notice into consideration while ordering the prosecution. “High court cannot be a silent spectator where stinking facts warrants interference in order to serve the interests of justice,” noted the bench, adding, “If this court remains oblivious to the patent facts on record, it would tantamount to failure in performing its obligation under the law.”High court, however, refused to accept the explanation. “We are not convinced that because of lapse of 10 years, some mistake has taken place while identifying some of the accused and that the said mistake was not deliberate or intentional.”The bench said being a responsible policeman on duty and as the deceased was in his custody on the court premises when he was brutally murdered, being the eye witness, Trivedi was duty-bound to tell the truth before the trial court. “However, he resorted to falsehood and hence, we are unable to accept the explanation offered by him.”The bench also rejected the arguments advanced on his behalf that the high court had no authority to order prosecution for perjury. “This Court not only has the authority to exercise such jurisdiction, but also has an obligation to exercise such power in appropriate cases,” said the bench. “Looking to the facts of the present case, in our considered opinion, this is a fit case to exercise such jurisdiction, so as to maintain the majesty of judicial process and the purity of legal system,” noted the bench, while ordering for his prosecution.Case BackgroundSwapnil Shirke, an engineering graduate, wanted to start his own business and had ventured into real estate. With his uncle Ranjit Shirke, he had decided to develop a 21-acre plot at Sakkardara. Swapnil had formed a cooperative society under the name Bhagyashri Cooperative Society in 2001 to develop the land which came as succession from the erstwhile royal family of Raje Raghuji Bhosle. Then sitting Congress corporator Vijay Mate had allegedly encroached upon 7000 square feet of the land in the property that belonged to Shirkes, and when Shirkes had tried to settle the dispute amicably, Mate had asked Swapnil to stay away from developing the land which set of an ugly war between them.On July 18, 2001, Mate was allegedly shot at and his confidante Sanjay Gaikwad was killed. Swapnil was arrested as the main accused in the case. It was in this case that Swapnil was being produced when Mate engineered an attack on him in broad daylight and killed him.The Nagpur police arrested 17 accused, including Mate, who surrendered himself before the police. A sessions court in Nagpur sentenced eight persons including Mate to life imprisonment, while it acquitted seven others in the case in October 2013. An appeal before the Bombay High Court sentencing 12 people in the case while acquitting three others in 205. The accused then moved an appeal before the Supreme Court while sentenced seven people including Mate to life imprisonment while it acquitted four others. One accused Raju Gaikwad is still wanted in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2002-murder-case-perjury-proceedings-against-cop-for-failing-to-identify-killers/story-WENQZH47wy3hyiosdA7JBM.html
29-05-2020||Mumbai||Free buses for migrant workers travelling to railway stations||After guidelines issued by the Supreme Court, the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) on Friday announced that no ticket fares will be charged from migrant workers taking buses to city railway stations to travel to their home states. Manoj Varade, a spokesperson for BEST said, “The Supreme Court on Thursday directed that no fare for travel either by trains or buses should be charged from migrant workers stranded across the country and they must be provided with food and water. Hence, BEST has decided to offer free service to migrants from Friday.”Earlier, BEST was charging for dropping migrant workers at the railway stations. Meanwhile, BEST achieved 54.5% recovery rate on Friday, with 10 staffers getting discharged in a single day, said officials.Data released by the undertaking on Friday states that of the 259 BEST staffers who have tested positive so far, including nine fresh cases reported on Friday, 140 have recovered of Covid-19 and have been discharged. So far, there have been eight deaths of BEST staffers due to the novel coronavirus. “As compared to others [government undertakings], till date we have managed to control the spread of the virus among our staffers. We are the only public undertaking which has managed a recovery rate of over 50%. There were around eight fatalities, but we are working to reduce the spread,” said Dr Anil Kumar Singhal, chief medical officer, BEST.About 80% of the staffers currently under treatment are now asymptomatic or only have mild symptoms. BEST administration is confident that many more patients will be discharged soon and the recovery rate will increase. However, three staffers were admitted in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) and 10 staffers, on oxygen beds, were in critical condition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/free-buses-for-migrant-workers-travelling-to-railway-stations/story-gTwRgQ0uFhgpY2NowhOGQN.html
29-05-2020||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad case: NIA court rejects interim bail plea of activist Sudha Bharadwaj||The special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on Friday rejected the interim bail plea of activist Sudha Bharadwaj, an accused in Elgar Parishad case.Bharadwaj moved the bail petition on health grounds after a prisoner and a jail doctor at Byculla jail, where the activist is lodged, were found infected with Covid-19. In her plea, Bharadwaj stated that she was suffering from several pre-existing medical conditions such as diabetes, hypertension and high blood pressure and is at a high risk of contracting coronavirus in prison. It was also argued that Bhardwaj has a history of pulmonary tuberculosis in the past, which makes her particularly susceptible to contracting other respiratory infections.The plea was objected by special public prosecutor Prakash Shetty on the grounds that the accused in the case are booked under the stringent provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, and thus cannot be released on interim bail as stated by the high-power committee of the Bombay high court. The prosecution also submitted that the prisoners are getting all the facilities and treatment for all ailments inside the prison premises.Bharadwaj, along with other activists, was arrested under UAPA and the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for allegedly having links with Maoists and being involved in the Elgar Parishad gathering on December 31, 2017, which triggered caste-based violence at Bhima Koregaon in Pune the next day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/elgar-parishad-case-nia-court-rejects-interim-bail-plea-of-activist-sudha-bharadwaj/story-uQDHrVKVl3ItJ6tK8rbwDK.html
29-05-2020||City||Three hospitals sealed in Thane over complaints of not admitting patients||Thane Three private hospitals in Mumbra were sealed on Friday and criminal cases were registered against them after a rise in complaints against the hospitals of refusing admissions to emergency patients, including pregnant women.The directives to file the cases were given by Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) commissioner Vijay Singhal.“We have registered cases against three hospitals, Bilal Hospital, Prime Criticare Hospital and Universal Hospital from where we received regular complaints. These hospitals rejected patients despite beds being available or charged exorbitant fees from poor patients, including pregnant women for admitting them.We have registered criminal cases against these hospitals and also sealed them,” he said.Mumbra residents have alleged that these incidents have become common as private hospitals are constantly rejecting patients or charging them exorbitant amounts as fees to conduct Covid-19 tests. A 28-year-old woman, who was six months pregnant, died on May 26 after several private hospitals refused to admit her. A few days ago a 13-year-old girl also died when refused treatment for a liver ailment. Singhal added that in the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic, hospitals were given guidelines to admit patients and a notice regarding the same was also given to them.TMC has started the work of setting up its third 1,000-bed hospital in Maulana Abdul Kalam Azaad Stadium in Kausa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-hospitals-sealed-in-thane-over-complaints-of-not-admitting-patients/story-oNbB4AjaWk6pQ81Kk8dtNI.html
29-05-2020||Mumbai||Air India medical dept urges management to repeal transfer of doctor accused of alleged sexual misconduct||Regional heads of Air India medical department have appealed the airline management to repeal the transfer of an alleged doctor who has a sexual harassment case pending against him. The doctor had been transferred to Hyderabad from Mumbai by the ex-chairman and managing director (CMD) Ashwani Lohani after a female colleague complained of sexual harassment at the workplace. He has now joined the airline headquarters in Delhi as a general manager. The doctor, who has the rank of a senior official, was transferred and given higher responsibility on May 13. Senior airline sources said that despite an ongoing sexual harassment inquiry, Air India asked the officer to join his duty in Delhi as the executive director (ED) of the medical department is retiring on Sunday, and the transferred officer will be heading the department after him. While the airline spokesperson on May 15 had said that they wouldn’t comment on the matter citing ‘internal issues’, the spokesperson had called the transfer of senior officers to be a routine administrative exercise as per administrative and operational requirements.Lohani had earlier endorsed a report that stated that the officer has a ‘negative attitude’ and has an ongoing sexual harassment inquiry against him. In a letter written to airline management (HT has a copy of it) on May 16, the doctors of Air India stated: “...the said official has been vindictive, vengeful domineer who has an extremely negative attitude, insults everyone at the drop of a hat, belittles colleagues and juniors.”It further added, “We are privy to the humiliating experiences to our lady colleagues and the lady patients in the guide of his cheap remarks and inappropriate jokes. Most of these ladies contract doctors are forced to genuflect as they are scared to lose their jobs due to his explicit hints of contract termination.”Requesting to repeal the said officer’s transfer, the airline doctors added, “Heads hang in shame as this doctor bearing the cross sexual harassment will now lead us for the altar of medical headquarter, Air India.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/air-india-medical-dept-urges-management-to-repeal-transfer-of-doctor-accused-of-alleged-sexual-misconduct/story-N116hVL48xMHIuB32zdoqN.html
29-05-2020||Mumbai||HC extends fee reimbursement benefit to backward category students of minority institutes||A three-judge bench of the Bombay high court on Friday struck down a government resolution (GR) issued by the social welfare and special assistance department in February 2013 that restricted the benefit of fee reimbursement to backwards category students admitted to professional courses through common admission process (CAP) conducted by the state government.The bench comprising justice Amjad Sayed, justice Dama Sheshadri Naidu and justice Prakash Naik heard a petition filed by 26 students, belonging to Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward Class (OBC), who are pursuing engineering courses at DJ Sanghavi College of Engineering at Vile Parle.The petitioners, like thousands of others, were denied the benefit of the fee reimbursement scheme for backward category students, as they were not admitted through CAP conducted by the government. Being a linguistic minority institution, Sanghavi college admits students from the pool of common entrance test (CET) conducted by the government, but by conducting its admission process - as is done by several other linguistic and religious minority institutions. The deemed universities conduct their own CET and own admission process.They had challenged the GR primarily on the ground that the distinction made between CAP and non-CAP students for fee reimbursement was not based on reasonable classification and had no nexus to the object sought to be achieved, and therefore, it was discriminatory and violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India. They argued myths that there was no reason to deny the benefit to backward category students admitted to unaided minority institutions.The state government responded to the petition stating their CAP was transparent, well-documented and well-regulated.Besides the policy decision involved financial implications and therefore beyond the scope of judicial review.The bench, however, rejected the government’s stand. It said both admission processes were legal and permissible. “Both the admission processes have judicial imprimatur and statutory sanction,” said the court. “The CAP colleges and the non-CAP colleges take the students from the common merit pool of CET. A method of admission cannot be treated as legal for one purpose and illegal for another purpose.”“Here, the students legitimately, lawfully get admitted through the institutional method (non-CAP) of admission. They suffer no discrimination otherwise on that count. Then, we fail to understand how the Government can brand non-CAP admission as deficient for extending a beneficial scheme,” the bench said while striking down the GR.Moreover, the bench said, the decision contained in the GR was not merit-based. “It is simply disability-based—the social disability of caste,” said the bench - indicating that there was no distinguishing factor between admitted the CAP and non-CAP CAP students to extend the benefit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-extends-fee-reimbursement-benefit-to-backward-category-students-of-minority-institutes/story-phokdnq8MgPbFR4F8tcv9H.html
29-05-2020||City||Thane corporator found dead in hotel||A Thane corporator from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) died in a hotel room in Thane.Vilas Kamble, who was earlier the standing committee chairman, had been staying in the hotel at Naupada for over a year.Doctors said he died of a heart attack but the post-mortem report is yet to come. He is survived by his wife, who is also a corporator, two sons and one daughter.A BJP worker said, “On Thursday night, Kamble spoke to his wife and mother over phone. He complained of stomachache before going to bed. On Friday, when he did not answer his phone, his family members went to the hotel to check. They found him lying on the floor and took him to Thane civil hospital.”Thane civil hospital doctors said that he was brought dead. A medical officer from the hospital said, “It looks like a heart attack. We are waiting for the post-mortem report. We have also taken his swab for Covid testing.”Kamble was a two-term corporator of Thane Municipal Corporation and also the chairman of standing committee for seven months in the last term. In 2017, he joined the BJP after quitting Bahujan Samaj Party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-corporator-found-dead-in-hotel/story-9uLqgIO2yfEmIsMbjbwGsL.html
29-05-2020||Gurugram||Covid-19 cases in Gurugram cross 500-mark||The city’s Covid-19 cases breached the 500-mark after it recorded a spike of 115 fresh cases on Friday. This is the biggest number of coronavirus cases to have been recorded in a single day. Gurugram’s Covid-19 count stands at 520, as per the state health bulletin. It is the highest in Haryana so far.Of the total cases, there are 293 active patients, while 224 have been discharged after the recovery from the highly contagious disease. On Friday, 31 patients were discharged. The death toll stands at 3, as per the health bulletin.The district health team, however, did not share the details of the fresh cases and the areas from where they have been reported.The city saw a massive surge in Covid-19 cases in May as compared to April. On May 1, the total number of coronavirus positive patients was 71. In a month’s time, 449 new cases have been reported. On Thursday, the city recorded the second-highest spike of 68 cases. The positive cases were reported from more than 30 areas.A member of the rapid response team said, “The 115 cases are from different parts of the Gurugram block. It includes areas such as DLF-4, Rajeev Nagar, Surat Nagar, Nathupur, Sector 10A, Sector 18 and Hari Nagar, Gandhi Nagar, among others.” He said that the reported cases are all fresh ones and not holdover cases, refuting to all the rumours that the sudden spurt in the number is due to addition of cases that have been in the backlog.Official data till May 28 showed that some of the worst-affected areas are Dundahera (19 cases), Rajendra Park (12), Khandsa (32), Sector 10A (19), Rajeev Nagar (10), Ravi Nagar (10), Jyoti Park (9), Chakkarpur (7), Gandhi Nagar (6) among others. All of these areas are residential in nature with dense population. A few of the condominiums in the city have been equally affected where patients have been kept under home isolation.With the surge in the number of Covid-19 cases, the district administration has started paid isolation facility for asymptomatic cases. At least 12 hotels have been roped in for the purpose.The city also reported the third Covid-19 death in Medeor Hospital on Thursday. “A 65-year-old woman with co-morbidity issues succumbed to coronavirus,” said the rapid response member. Earlier this week, two deaths have been reported in PGIMS, Rohtak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/covid-19-cases-in-gurugram-cross-500-mark/story-OKE5NrzgBuqjKaAYOrXNMI.html
29-05-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Mobile shop owner with ‘links’ to gangster shot dead in Sector 9||A 38-year-old city-based mobile shop owner, suspected to be a close associate of gangster Binder Gujjar, was allegedly shot dead in broad daylight in Feroze Gandhi Colony, Sector 9, on Friday afternoon. According to the police, the assailants fired at least 27 bullets at the victim’s car as he was on the way to his office.The deceased has been identified as Vikas Dureja alias Vicky alias Anda, a mobile shop owner based in the Baldev Nagar area. The shooting has raised concerns regarding resurgence of a gang war in the city amid the lockdown, the police said. A day earlier, at least three men had shot dead a 22-year-old man in Shiv Park. The police, however, denied that the incident was related to any gang rivalry, and said that they were probing all angles, including the role of liquor mafia.Police sources said that Dureja was a close aide of gangster Binder Gujjar, who was arrested in 2019 by the Mumbai crime branch for his alleged involvement in several murder and extortion cases. Gujjar was also allegedly a conspirator in the encounter of rival gangster Sandeep Gadoli. Their turf war had allegedly resulted in several murders. Gujjar’s brother Manish, a liquor trader, was killed in a gang war in 2016.According to the police, the Friday’s incident was reported around 2.45pm when Dureja was going to his office in his white SUV (Creta). At least three suspects in a Scorpio car blocked the Dureja’s SUV, the police said, adding that most of the suspects were armed.Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that the victim tried to reverse his car to escape but he hit a dead-end and the Scorpio rammed into his car from behind.“A preliminary probe suggests that the suspects got out of the vehicle and surrounded his car from three sides. The bullet holes on his car suggest that the suspects fired at him through the windshield and the co-driver’s seat. It is premature to say that the murder was orchestrated due to gang rivalry,” said Sangwan, adding that there was no eye witness in the case and the police could not recover CCTV footage of the incident.The police said that the victim sustained multiple gunshot wounds all over his body and died on the spot. According to forensic analysis, the bullet casings indicate that the cartridges used in the pistol were of 9mm, .32 bore and 7.62mm. Several crime teams are working to trace the suspects, said the police.A police official privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said that Dureja had borrowed money to run several allied businesses, including property and real estate. “He also owed money to some people, who were involved in illegal liquor trade. During the lockdown, the liquor mafia had been operational in the city. The murder could be related to some of these dealings,” said the police official.The police said they have registered a case of murder on the statement of the victim’s wife. In the statement, she said that her husband had gone for work around 2pm, and around 2.40pm, she received information that he had been shot dead. She did not name any suspects in the complaint, the police said. The case was registered under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code and the Arms Act at New Colony police station on Friday, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-mobile-shop-owner-with-links-to-gangster-shot-dead-in-sector-9/story-HzJXFf49j4ME1lERrSV1SL.html
29-05-2020||Gurugram||Third hospital issued show-cause notice||The district administration on Friday served a show-cause notice to a private hospital for allegedly refusing to admit a Covid-19 patient. Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, issued a notice to Pratiksha Hospital, Sector 56. This is the third private hospital in the city to be issued a show-cause notice after Park Hospital and Paras Hospital.A representative of Pratiksha Hospital said, “We have never refused any Covid-19 patients. Currently, three positive patients are undergoing treatment.” Notably, Pratiksha Hospital was among the six hospitals, which were directed by the district administration in mid-May to reserve 100 beds for Covid-19.On Thursday, Park Hospital and Paras Hospital were issued a notice. Park Hospital issued an official statement on Friday, saying that they have already catered to 74 Covid-19 patients who are either positive or suspected cases. The statement read: “A reply to the show-cause notice has been duly submitted to the respected offices of the government authorities. We have three positive patients indoors and four patients under observation in our Covid-19 ward. We have a dedicated isolation ward for Covid-19 patients.”Officials of the health department were unavailable for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/third-hospital-issued-show-cause-notice/story-2st2fZzlzP8q8ZlsXYKrrM.html
29-05-2020||City||Gurugram: Web portal for movement passes faces technical issues, commuters left hassled||Gurugram: Those needed movement passes to commute between Delhi and Gurugram were left in the lurch after Haryana’s web portal to apply for the same was found dysfunctional Friday. The webpage on the Saral Haryana portal – Movement Pass for Covid-19 curfew/lockdown- saw glitches throughout the day as certain sections required to fill in the details were not working. While commuters said they faced difficulties in applying for fresh passes on Friday, officials said movement from Delhi to Gurugram was allowed only on the basis of passes issued by the district administration. The Sirhaul border, which was sealed on Friday morning, left many commuters stranded. The borders had been sealed on May 1 but the police stopped checking for passes last week. Haryana home minister Anil Vij, however, issued orders on Thursday to seal the border in the wake of a spike in Covid-19 cases in Gurugram, which has breached 400.Application for movement passes includes two categories – public movement pass and special weekly pass. The special weekly pass is applicable for special services such as doctors, nurses, paramedics, government employees and judiciary. On the other hand, public movement pass covers airport personnel, emergency scheduled surgeries, funeral (20 persons), geriatric issues, marriage function (50 persons), medical emergency, non-medical emergency, ongoing critical treatments, paediatric issues, pregnancy, private sector office, routine health checkups, scheduled flights and trains, veterinary issue, and visiting a family in other states.Muhammed Akil, Gurugram’s police commissioner, said the process of issuing new passes will start on Saturday. People carrying valid passes till May 31 are allowed to cross the border, according to Akil.When contacted, Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, said, “There was a server problem at the headquarter. The server was down for two hours.”The portal, however, till late Friday, remained dysfunctional as sections such as the ‘Pass Required Upto’ (date) was blocked. In addition, the list of districts did not reflect in the movement section, despite it being mandatory. Many commuters said they either could not fill in their details to apply afresh or the application page didn’t open at all.Ramesh Singh, who works for an IT company in Cyber City, said, “Till now, we were allowed to easily cross the border without showing any movement pass. Since there was a relaxation in crossing the border, we did not require any new passes. Now, without informing us or giving us time to arrange for new passes, we are asked to return from the border.” Singh decided to apply for a movement pass online after waiting at the border. He said he could not fill in the details as the section ‘Pass required upto’ was blocked. Kundan, an employee with an essential service company in Udyog Vihar, said, “We were already struggling with retaining our jobs. Unrestricted movement was at least an assurance that we can start working and get our salaries, which has already been deducted. But now it seems another challenge to apply for fresh passes and wait for its approval.” Like Singh, Kundan also was unable to access the portal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-web-portal-for-movement-passes-faces-technical-issues-commuters-left-hassled/story-GkReKCUf4bAXtzlq0Lf7NJ.html
29-05-2020||City||Offices, industrial units witness thin attendance due to border sealing||Gurugram: With the state border with Delhi sealed, offices and industries in Gurugram saw thin attendance of workforce on Friday.The Haryana government had re-ordered the restrictions on movement on Thursday following a spurt in Covid-19 positive case in Gurugram. Only those with movement passes and essential services would be allowed to cross the border. Earlier this month, the state government had restricted movement for the first time during the lockdown that began on March 25 to contain the spread of the disease. Last week, Gurugram Police said they would relax checking at the border and remove barricades during rush hours to prevent traffic jams.On Friday, these jams were back. The sudden sealing came as a surprise to many who were forced to return as they did not have movement passes.“Around half of our employees, from different departments, come from Delhi. Due to the sudden decision to block entry, a majority of them could not come and work has suffered. Client visits that were scheduled were also cancelled,” said a senior real estate professional, who preferred anonymity.At two large commercial office buildings at Sohna Road and another at Hero Honda Chowk, the scene was similar.“We are allowing only a third of our staff to work from these offices, but today only 18 to 20 per cent staffers could attend. All safeguards prescribed by the administration such as sanitisation, disinfecting the premises and temperature checks are religiously being followed,” said Kamaljeet Singh, senior vice president, Bestech that owns the buildings.“Limited number of people were coming to work and they were mostly locals. However, those coming from Delhi are likely to face difficulty due to border sealing. Things would become clear in next few days,” said a spokesperson for Circle.Work, a co-working office space located at HUDA city centre.Gurugram-based people who work in Delhi too were hit.A senior DLF employee, who works at its office in Delhi said that he had to work from home due to curbs at the border. “My pass has expired and the Saral Haryana portal had no option on Friday to obtain a new one,” he said.In Udyog Vihar, which is the industrial and office space hub of the city, many factory owners and senior professional had to miss work. “I have a unit in Udyog Vihar and another in Bahadurgarh and at both places entry was restricted for staff and vendors. I had to return from Sirhaul border and if this continues for some more days we don’t know how industry will run,” said Anurag Shokeen, managing director of a large garment unit, who lives in Delhi.Ashok Kohli, president, chamber of industries, Udyog Vihar said that authorities must ease the restrictions on the borders else it would be difficult to run the factories and revive economy. “Many offices and factory units remained idle as staff could not reach Udyog Vihar,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/offices-industrial-units-witness-thin-attendance-due-to-border-sealing/story-0XRxlNpDhED9ml1QFiSxAK.html
29-05-2020||Gurugram||Hundreds turn up at Delhi-Gurugram borders, are stopped, turned back||Hundreds of daily wage workers were not allowed to cross the Sirhaul border on Friday morning, following which they tried to enter Delhi through the Dundahera border, from where too they were back. . The Haryana government on Thursday had issued orders to reseal the borders with Delhi in order to contain the spread of Covid-19.On Friday, barricades were placed at all border crossings into the national capital, restricting the movement of vehicles and pedestrians on both carriageways.Motorists, cyclists and pedestrians huddled together after they were all asked to stop as soon as they crossed the Rajokri border. Some commuters got into a tiff with the police personnel after being denied entry, while many others were spotted trying to reason with the policemen on duty, telling them that they had already suffered salary loss of two months and if the situation remained the same , they will not be unable to survive.A number of daily wage labourers said they were shocked to see heavy police deployment on the borders on Friday morning and that they were stopped 500 metres before the barricading that had been put in place to restrict entry into Gurugram and were asked to return. Bhushan Sharma, a daily wage labourer who works in Udyog Vihar, said that they had resumed work after two months and for the last one week had not been stopped at the border. But on Friday again, they were not allowed to enter. “Police are asking us for passes, but we don’t know how and where to apply. If we do not join work, how will we make our ends meet. It’s becoming very difficult to survive without any income,” he said.Karan Goel, the assistant commissioner of police (DLF), said, “We are checking with factories, which the labourers have mentioned, to see if they have permissions to operate. Industries that have permissions from the district administration to operate have been directed to make arrangements for the stay of their workers , who will not be allowed to move in and out of the city,” he said.Some workers on Friday tried to dodge the police barricades and cross the border walking. But they were stopped and turned back, following which they went to the Dundahera border to try and cross over, but were denied entry.According to the police,a crowd of at least 1,500 people — mostly daily wage earners working in Udyog Vihar — had gathered on foot and on bi- cycles near the border around 9.30 am, demanding entry into the city.Goel said since the border was sealed, having a movement pass was mandatory to commute through inter-state borders on a daily basis. After crossing the border with a movement pass, it is the responsibility of the employers to make arrangements for the stay of workers within the company or factories. The police commissioner of Gurugram, Muhammad Akil, said the challenge is to control unnecessary vehicular movement. “Our teams asked them to return, due to which they blocked the road and did not allow those behind to move or even reverse their vehicles, resulting in traffic congestion,” he said.Starting Friday, the police have been directed not to let any motorist cross the city border unless they have a movement pass.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/hundreds-turn-up-at-delhi-gurugram-borders-are-stopped-turned-back/story-uWaBdWKNbYJOdoji7YO7DO.html
29-05-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram’s test positivity rate doubles in one week||The district’s Covid-19 test positivity rate (TPR) has almost doubled in the past week, coinciding with 166 new positive cases detected between May 22 and May 28. Officials and experts said that this surge is not necessarily a cause for alarm. Rather, it is a result of efficient contact tracing of susceptible individuals, along with an increase in the number of tests conducted over the last week. Analysed daily, Gurugram’s TPR on May 28 was 23.7%, with 68 of 286 new samples testing positive, according to the government health bulletin. This is the highest that the district’s TPR has been since testing began on March 14. TPR is the ratio of positive cases to the total number of samples tested and must be analysed on a daily or a weekly basis to understand the quality of testing and surveillance in a region.Seen as a moving, weekly average, Gurugram’s TPR jumped from 4% between May 15 and May 21 to 7.7% between May 22 and May 28. During this time, the number of samples tested from the district also increased by 20%, shows health department data. From 1,711 samples tested between May 15 and May 21, Gurugram tested 2,147 samples between May 21 and May 28. According to Dr Rajesh Kumar, epidemiologist and former professor at the department of community medicine, PGIMS Chandigarh, “This means that contact tracing is working efficiently. And there has been a slight uptick in testing numbers as well, so you could say that the general surveillance system itself has improved.”However, Kumar also said that an increasing positivity rate, as seen in Gurugram, also indicates that transmission of the virus has not been slowed down due to previous containment measures. “The success of ongoing containment measures will be seen in the next two to three weeks. If successful, then we should see a dip in cases towards mid-June,” he added. Sudha Garg, the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme’s (IDSP) district surveillance officer in Gurugram, did not respond to requests seeking comment for this story. However, a senior IDSP official based in Panckula, seeking anonymity, said, “The surge in cases is a function of our surveillance and testing strategy. Better surveillance has yielded more number of cases. There is no cause for alarm as Gurugram’s case fatality ratio is still very low. We are detecting cases early on, and are able to keep mortality in check. This is the hallmark of a good surveillance system.” Of the 405 COVID-19 cases detected in the district so far, only three have succumbed to the disease. This is less than 1%, whereas India’s case fatality ratio on May 29 stood at about 2.8%, the official pointed out. JS Punia, chief medical officer (CMO), Gurugram, did not respond to requests for comment on Friday. Additional chief secretary (health), Rajeev Arora, said, “The uptick in number of cases was expected seeing as lockdown restrictions, particularly on public mobility, have been eased. But our testing numbers and surveillance efforts remain robust.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-s-test-positivity-rate-doubles-in-one-week/story-o5lF16UvhtydlUPzQuMeTL.html
29-05-2020||City||MCG orders probe into alleged anomalies in issuing fire NOC to several buildings||Gurugram:Acting on the complaints about the discrepancies in issuing no objection certificates (NOCs) to several buildings in the city by the fire department, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has directed its vigilance wing to investigate the alleged irregularities.MCG officials on Friday said that they had been receiving complaints on their social media account of buildings across the city operating with fire NOCs despite having various discrepancies.On MCG’s Twitter account, since February, several residents have lodged complaints regarding improper fire NOC being given to a freight forwarding agency in DLF Phase 4, a mall in Sector 53, a school in Sector 12, private hospitals on Sheetla Mata Road, Jharsa Road, and Sector 17A, among others.Taking cognizance of the complaints, MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh directed the vigilance wing on Thursday to start an investigation into issuance of fire NOCs, the officials said.“We have been receiving complaints through social media regarding various violations in fire NOC. We have asked the fire department for files. We are also looking at the rules of the fire act closely to check if there were any violations on behalf of the fire department while issuing NOCs,” said Amardeep Jain, additional commissioner who heads MCG’s vigilance wing.In Gurugram, the fire department falls under the ambit of the MCG. IS Kashyap, assistant divisional fire safety officer, said that the fire department is yet to receive any communication from the civic body in this regard. “The MCG has not asked for any specific files regarding fire NOCs. If they do, we will comply with their direction right away,” said Kashyap.The action by the MCG comes less than six days after a blaze occurred at a hand sanitiser manufacturing company in Kherki Daula which took 30 hours to douse.The sanitiser manufacturing company was allegedly operating with a conditional fire NOC as the company was yet to procure a building plan certificate from the MCG. The fire department had given the company six months to get a building plan based on which the conditional NOC was issued.An MCG official privy to the matter said that a building plan is one of the key components for approving any residential or commercial establishment to start operations.“A building plan discloses the type of layout of the building such as its exit and entry points, the width of its corridor, among other such key issues, which are taken into account especially for rescue operations before giving final approval. Hence, the fire department giving conditional NOC without a building plan may have been negligent. Fortunately, the building where the fire occurred in Kherki Daula had the requisite entry and exit points or else it could have led to fatalities,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mcg-orders-probe-into-alleged-anomalies-in-issuing-fire-noc-to-several-buildings/story-49T1Bs3Y7AytA1YNgk4TCO.html
29-05-2020||Delhi||Many Gurugram motorists choose Faridabad border to enter Delhi even as snarls reported on roads to Gurugram, Ghaziabad||With the Delhi-Gurugram border re-sealed on Friday after a week of allowing vehicles to pass through, several residents of Gurugram chose the Delhi-Faridabad border as their entry point into the national Capital even as the roads leading to Gurugram and Ghaziabad witnessed slow traffic in the morning hours.While the restrictions at the Gurugram borders had been lifted on May 18 and were back in place Friday, there was no order to de-seal the Delhi-Faridabad border. However, drivers of vehicles had to have valid passes if they wished to cross both borders.KK Rao, Faridabad’s police commissioner, said that the situation at the Faridabad border remained the same. “We have not de-sealed the border. Only essential service providers such as paramedical and sanitation workers are allowed to cross if they are equipped with passes,” Rao said.However, two factors—a relatively limited checking process at the Faridabad border and unrestricted access to the Delhi-Faridabad skyway—allowed motorists easier access to Delhi compared to other checkpoints in Gurugram.On Friday, several motorists from Gurugram travelled up to 40 kilometres extra (one-way) just to be able to gain unrestricted entry into Delhi.“When I couldn’t make it to Delhi from the Gurugram border, I got to know from a friend that the situation was different at the Faridabad border, as there was lesser checking and the using the skyway did not require a pass. I drove all the way to Faridabad to enter Delhi as I cannot afford to miss work anymore,” Sanjeev Rana, who works for a private firm in Rajouri Garden, said.Rana had to drive an extra 40 kilometres to make it to Delhi, but said it was an uninterrupted journey. “I simply took the Delhi-Faridabad skyway,” Rana said.In the morning hours, the police went about checking people near NHPC Chowk, about 500 metres before the Delhi-Faridabad toll plaza. But after that, there was practically no checking for those entering Delhi.“Our priority is to stop people from entering Faridabad, not those leaving Faridabad,” a police officer deployed at a checkpost on the carriageway leading into Faridabad said.Gurugram motorists said that they were aware of there being stricter checking when they return after the day’s work. “I hope the Delhi-Faridabad skyway will remain unchecked in the evening, though,” BD Singh, who runs a mobile phone shop in Deoli, said.Singh, like some others, wasn’t able to obtain an online pass from the Faridabad administration. “I was able to reopen my shop for a week. Now, I can’t suddenly close it again when my employees are willing to come to work,” Singh saidOn the return journey, if Singh doesn’t choose the skyway, he’ll be asked to show his pass at the Delhi-Badarpur border checkpoint.“We are only letting in those with valid passes issued by the Faridabad administration,” the police officer at the checkpoint said.Yet, these policemen let several vehicles through unchecked in the afternoon. “The checking will get stricter in the evening when people begin returning from their offices,” the policeman said.The police commissioner, however, said that he was unaware of any such misuse of border routes by Gurugram motorists and that he had received no such complaints.The sealing of the borders between Gurugram and Ghaziabad, meanwhile, led to heavy traffic on the roads leading to the two cities.The traffic police said that vehicles crawled on NH-8 and the Singhu border leading to Gurugram and Sonepat respectively and on the road towards the Ghaziabad border near Ghazipur.Taj Hassan, the special commissioner of traffic police, said that there wasn’t much the Delhi Police could do about the situation since motorists being stopped at these borders were being turned away, leading to snarls.“There have been no jams on the roads entering Delhi. As for the ones leading to these two cities, we are doing all we can by alerting motorists on social media to avoid venturing towards those borders unless they have the necessary permissions,” Hassan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/many-gurugram-motorists-choose-faridabad-border-to-enter-delhi-even-as-snarls-reported-on-roads-to-gurugram-ghaziabad/story-yAKJkDqR8gt1RDTWQe3LDI.html
29-05-2020||City||UP govt to approach Supreme Court over hiked land compensation||A day after the Allahabad high court ordered that the government must not burden plot allottees with the amount incurred towards providing an enhanced compensation to farmers, the Uttar Pradesh government said it will file a plea before the Supreme Court challenging the high court order.The HC order said allottees, including individuals, universities, colleges and builders including ATS, 3Cs, Supertech need not pay a hiked land compensation to farmers. Builders, residential plot owners and others had gone to the high court as they did not want to pay an additional ₹4,000 crore against their plots allotted by the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida).In August, 2014, a state government committee headed by then cabinet minister Rajendra Chaudhary had recommended that farmers whose land was acquired by Yeida should get a 64.7% hiked land compensation benefits, similar to that given to farmers in Noida and Greater Noida. The Yeida had directed developers, individual allottees and others to pay the extra ₹4,000 crore towards enhanced land compensation. This meant each allottee had to pay an additional ₹470 per square metre to ₹1,330 per square metre for their land. The Yeida, had so far paid ₹2,600 crore to farmers.The Allahabad high court on Thursday said the state government or the development authorities cannot recover increased compensation to farmers (whose land was acquired) from the allottees without a prior agreement with the allottees in this regard. “Any rights, on the basis of a concluded or final contract or lease, which have been crystallised in favour of any party cannot be taken away by framing a policy on some later date. A policy so framed would be prospective in nature and cannot affect the contracts already finalised. Any such policy which is unilaterally framed disturbing the rights which have accrued to a party would clearly be violative of Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution,” the petitioners had contended. “The UP government has decided to file a plea before the Supreme Court because we have paid ₹2,600 crore already to farmers as per the committees’ decision,” Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer, Yeida, said.There are at least 21,000 residential plot allottees, who have gone on to build universities and housing projects on the land allotted. Some of them paid the hiked land compensation as well. Around 170 individual plot allottees had filed the petition before the high court seeking relief from the hiked land compensation. “Paying the hiked land compensation is not feasible because the real estate sector has been in a slump for past many years. Buyers are also reluctant to pay the hiked land compensation,” RK Arora, president (UP chapter) National Real Estate Development Council, who has a realty project in Yamuna Expressway, said.“We had bought the plots in 2009 and many are yet to get possession. The Yeida should not recover hiked land compensation from plot owners as it is yet to provide even basic facilities in areas such as sectors 18 and 20, where these plots are located. The recovery of hiked land compensation is arbitrary and unjust,” Alok Singh, a plot owner said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/up-govt-to-approach-supreme-court-over-hiked-land-compensation/story-iKfboo5k5BRKUv3MPcDFOK.html
29-05-2020||Dehradun||Tigress found dead in Corbett Tiger Reserve, first tiger death in Corbett this year||Carcass of a ten-year-old tigress was found in Corbett Tiger Reserve’s Jhirna Range on Friday.The tigress had injury marks on its neck and it likely died due to infighting with another tigress or tiger, officials said. “Patrolling staff of the park spotted the carcass of the tigress in Jhirna range on Friday morning. Veterinary doctors conducted its post mortem following which the tigress was cremated. The tigress had injury marks which hinted that it likely died in infighting with another tiger or tigress,” Rahul (who goes by his first name ), director of Corbett Tiger Reserve (CTR) said.This is the first death of a tiger this year inside Corbett Tiger Reserve, he said. The viscera of the tigress will be sent for testing to the animal testing lab in Bareilly so that the exact cause of its death is known. The death of the cat is not an isolated incident in the Kumaon region, as in the last two years, multiple carcasses have been found. In the second week of April, the carcass of a five-year-old male tiger was found in Ramnagar Forest Division near Corbett Tiger Reserve. In December last year, the carcass of a tigress was found in Corbett Tiger Reserve’s Bijrani zone. In September last year, a tigress was killed in CTR’s Dhela zone. In May last year, the carcass of a male tiger was found in Corbett’s Bijrani zone. In the same month carcass of another tiger was found in Corbett landscape under a culvert in Ringoda stream. In February 2019, the carcass of a tigress was found in the forests of Terai Central forest division in Nainital, with officials saying the tigress died of old age or from some ailment. In January 2018, a tiger death was reported from Nainital district’s Ramnagar Forest Division. In April 2018, a tiger was killed in Surpudali range of Corbett Tiger Reserve. In May 2018, a tigress was found dead in the forests of Almora district.Corbett and its surroundings have one of the highest tiger densities in the world. The tiger population has increased in the Corbett landscape over the years, with last estimates pointing out that there are over 260 tigers within CTR at present, said forest officials. Ramnagar Forest Division around Corbett has over 14 tigers per 100 sq km, while Corbett has 9.4 tigers/100 sq km, according to experts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/tigress-found-dead-in-corbett-tiger-reserve-first-tiger-death-in-corbett-this-year/story-nrP2yKPqYPRzekJo0kxIjN.html
29-05-2020||City||Two Shramik trains leave Kalyan for Bihar, UP||Two Shramik special trains departed on Friday from Kalyan to Patna in Bihar and Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh. Till now, 17 Shramik trains have been operated from Kalyan, said railway official. “The train to Patna left around 2.10 pm, with 1,600 passengers. The train to Gorakhpur departed around 5.20pm, with 1,500 passengers,” said a railway official from Kalyan railway station. According to a railway official, both the trains were delayed by around two hours. “The groups of migrants had to reach Kalyan station. The medical screening and formalities delayed the train’s departure,” added the railway official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-shramik-trains-leave-kalyan-for-bihar-up/story-lONyhQqCQTZ0aZRBUsNZDK.html
29-05-2020||City||Ghaziabad gears up to deal with locust attack||The Ghaziabad district administration is gearing up to deal with a new problem — a possible locust attack that may swarm in through its borders.The district administration has so far set up a control room to deal with the situation and issued directions to the urban local bodies to make ready their jet spray equipment. The officials, however, said that people in urban areas have limited options and may resort to making loud noise to drive away the locusts.India is battling the worst desert locust invasion in more than 21 years. The crop-destroying swarms first attacked Rajasthan and have now spread to other states like Punjab, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and UP.“The locusts are presently in areas near Jhansi and the wind directions, which is at present unfavourable, to determine if or not they travel towards Ghaziabad. In urban areas, people can resort to making loud noise — like playing loudspeakers, switching on their cars or tractors or other vehicles,” said RS Verma, plant protection officer from the district agricultural department.According to officials, the district has a vast measure of about 52,000 hectares of agricultural fields, which needs to be protected. They added that Ghaziabad at the moment has standing sugarcane crop in about 35,000 hectares and much damage my take place in case of a locust attack.“The use of loud music or sound source in urban areas is needed as spraying of chemicals is not advisable in residential areas. The locust prefers staying at places that have vegetation and there are chances that they do not enter urban residential houses. They also get attacked by dogs, cats and even birds. They generally move along with the wind direction during the day time and stay on ground during evening and night,” he added.The district officials are already on alert mode and teams have been deployed to track the movement of the locust swarms.The officials said that an alert has already been sounded in rural areas, where teams at the panchayat levels have been briefed about measures to be taken and chemical spraying that needs to be undertaken in case of a locust attack.“The last known location of the locust is near Jhansi and the wind right now is not blowing towards Ghaziabad. But that will not be the case if the wind changes direction. During night stay they also lay eggs and prefer soft soil to stay. It is at this time when we need to destroy them,” said Dr Virendra Kumar, deputy director (agriculture).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-gears-up-to-deal-with-locust-attack/story-nj3YOVb0KKlL2fk3MzQnxK.html
29-05-2020||City||Ghaziabad: Half of Covid-19 patients between 21 and 40 years||A little over half of the persons affected by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Ghaziabad so far are between 21 and 41 years of age, data maintained by the district health department shows. While out of the total 276 Covid-19 cases reported in the district until Thursday nearly 51.09% of the total patients belong to the age group of 21-40 years, those over 60 years of age constitute around 7.25% of the total cases making senior citizens the least affected group in the district.District health officials said that people in the age group of 21-40 years have been affected the most as they form the largest group of people moving out of their homes for various reasons amid the lockdown. According to official figures, until May 29 evening, at least 141 persons in the age group of 21-40 years were affected out of the total 276 cases in the district which also included four deaths. “The prime reason for so many people in the age group of 21-40 years getting affected by Covid-19 is because many people in this age group have been going out to their offices, making grocery runs and for other works during the lockdown. However, the infection affected people in all age groups, and also led to the death of four persons,” said Dr NK Gupta, district chief medical officer (CMO).As many as 38 persons (13.76%) of total people affected are in the age group of 0-20 years were affected, while 77 persons were in the age group of 41-60 years. At 7.25%, 20 persons above the age of 60 have been affected by the deadly infection. “Senior citizens have been taking a lot of precautions and mostly staying indoors. There has also been a lot of stress on protecting the elderly given their low immunity and their other health ailments. Most senior citizens have stayed indoors and hence, this age group has been least affected by a coronavirus in the district,” the CMO added.Meanwhile, persons in the age group of 0-20 years who contracted the infection include three minor children: a six-year-old girl and a two-year-old girl in the district were affected after coming in contact with Covid-19 positive family members, while the youngest patient to test positive was a three-day-old girl.“The rate of children getting affected is less and this trend is also prevalent in countries like China. There are a number of cases where pregnant women were infected, but most of the newborns did not acquire the infection from their mothers. So, it is primarily because of strong immunity that babies and children have not got affected to a large extent,” said Dr VB Jindal, president of the Ghaziabad chapter of the Indian Medical Association.“On the other hand, most senior citizens who tested positive for the infection caught it from other family members. As the age group of 21-40 years has the highest mobility rate, and coronavirus spreads easily among humans, this group has been affected the most. Even though the lockdown norms have relaxed, it is vital that all the prescribed prevention and preventive measures are strictly followed for a long time to come,” he added.Dr Jindal added that senior citizens with diabetes and those suffering from kidney and blood pressure related problems should take extra precautions and stay indoors as much as possible.Official data also shows that more men have been affected by Covid-19 in the district so far. Out of the total cases, 197 people affected by Covid-19 are men, while the percentage of women patients is 28.62 (79 cases)]SIXTEEN NEW CASESThe chief medical officer said 16 new cases Covid-19 cases were reported on Friday, taking the district tally from 260 to 276. The officials said one case each was reported from Maharajpur, Pratap Vihar, Hindon Vihar, Behrampur, and Shalimar Garden Extension 2 while two cases were reported from Jhandapur.They added that nine other cases were reported from sectors 3, 4, and 5 in Vaishali locality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-half-of-covid-19-patients-between-21-and-40-years/story-potkPD9LEoK3GuyfQ00f2M.html
29-05-2020||City||Ghaziabad halts for now operation of special trains and buses as migrants’ number shrinks||Ghaziabad: The Ghaziabad administration has decided to suspend the operations of Shramik special trains and buses, saying that the number of migrant workers who arrive in the city from Delhi and other NCR towns every day has now considerably reduced.Officials said that only about 400 to 500 migrant workers were left on Friday in different shelter homes in the city.Since early May, hundreds, at times thousands, of migrant workers had been reaching Ghaziabad’s Ghanta Ghar Ramlila Maidan to secure boarding passes for the special trains to their homes in Bihar and other districts of Uttar Pradesh amid the Covid-19 lockdown.“A total of 31 special trains have departed from Ghaziabad railway station. The last train departed on May 24. These trains went to different cities in Bihar and UP. The operation of such trains have been stopped for now due to the fact that very few migrant workers are now coming to Ghaziabad. We are planning for a train to West Bengal on Saturday,” said Santosh Kumar Vaishya, additional district magistrate (executive).According to official estimates, these trains and buses have so far ferried about 170,000 migrant workers to different cities in UP and Bihar.The officials said that on an average a special train carried about 1,200 to 1,300 passengers.The first train from Ghaziabad left for Bihar on May 15, they said.Apart from the 31 trains, the UP State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) also shared a major contribution in ferrying 131,627 migrant workers in 4,671 buses which left from different depots of Ghaziabad, Kaushambi, Loni, Sahibabad, Hapur, Sikandrabad and Bulandshahr, all falling under UPSRTC’s Ghaziabad region.The UPSRTC ran the buses for migrants from May 1 to May 28.“We operated the buses till May 28. Now the operations have been halted, as migrant workers have stopped coming. Only a few are left. Once the number of migrants for a particular route increases, we will despatch more buses. Nine of our buses dropped migrant workers to Uttarakhand border on May 28, while one bus also left for Bihar,” said AK Singh, regional manager of UPSRTC.“Besides, one of our buses ferried a group of 12 students from Manipur. A bus with the students on board also started from Manipur and both buses met midway near Purulia, West Bengal, and exchanged students. Then both buses went back to their origination point,” he added.Meanwhile, on Friday, some migrant workers reached Morta in Ghaziabad and found no buses or trains to their home towns.“I came here on foot and found no mode of transport in operation on Friday. My relatives left for my home town from Delhi about a fortnight ago. I waited for work to start and hoped I will get some money. But my employer refused to lend me money. Finally, I reached Morta on Friday morning in hope that I will get some train or a bus to reach my home town,” said Tilak Ram, a migrant worker from Faizabad in UP, who was part of the cleaning staff at a restaurant in Delhi’s Rajouri Garden.“The officials told me that there is no bus at the moment, but they will arrange it in a day or two,” he said.Meanwhile, state officials said that all the migrants who wish to return to UP will be brought through trains and buses, and will be sent to their home towns for free. “The CM has asked the chief secretary to get in touch with chief secretaries of different states to provide a list of migrant workers who are still left and can be brought back home,” said Awanish Awasthi, UP’s additional chief secretary (home).According to official figures, about 2.35 million people have come to UP through trains and buses while about 450,000 have come to UP border areas through their own means.The officials said that about 1,531 trains have already arrived in UP from different states and the tally will touch 1,557 trains in a day or two.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-halts-for-now-operation-of-special-trains-and-buses-as-migrants-number-shrinks/story-hcZO2UAIyg7V7tUCx6VqqL.html
29-05-2020||City||Woman found murdered in Thane||A 42-year-old woman from Rabodi in Thane was killed by an unknown person who slashed her throat on Thursday night. The police found the body near Saket road on Friday. According to the Rabodi police, the deceased identified as Reshma Ansari stayed in the slums at Rabodi. “The woman’s throat was slit with a sharp object. She has injuries on her neck. We have registered an FIR against unknown person. Her brother had registered a complaint after she went missing on Thursday evening. She told her family that she was going to the market. We are looking for leads,” said R Shirtode, senior inspector at Rabodi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-found-murdered-in-thane/story-10i7su7dNlOwk38hktUOVI.html
29-05-2020||City||Navi Mumbai stops registrations for Shramik trains||The Navi Mumbai police on Friday announced that they would stop accepting applications for Shramik special as most labourers have returned to their hometown. Currently, 5,188 labourers are on the list and they will be provided an alternative transport.The decision to stop accepting new applications was due to several reasons, including no consent from some states and a lower turnout among other reasons.Railway Board chairman VK Yadav, during a press conference on Friday, said the demand for the special trains have reduced in the past two days across the country. “Yesterday (Thursday), 137 trains were operated while 172 trains operated the day before. Last week, the average was of 250 trains a day,” Yadav added.Earlier this week, a group of 200 people travelling in a bus from Navi Mumbai was forced to return after Karnataka did not allow entry. The group had an approved pass from Navi Mumbai but Karnataka government did not allow them in.Navi Mumbai police commissioner Sanjay Kumar said, “We have sent most of the people home. Yesterday, two trains, including one for Uttar Pradesh departed. For small clusters of people going to different districts, we are in contact with other districts if trains are headed in their direction so they can be accommodated.”Kumar added that since the regular outstation trains are starting in a phased manner, those who can afford to incur the expenses can opt to purchase the tickets.Until now, close to 50 such special trains have departed from Navi Mumbai and Panvel transporting 63,209 labourers to different states, mainly from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Jharkhand and West Bengal.No migrant has been sent from Navi Mumbai to Goa, Kerala, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Tripura, Chandigarh and Andaman and Nicobar Islands due to lower number of people on the list.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navi-mumbai-stops-registrations-for-shramik-trains/story-ps7OXYyjFV7bcXu39jRuKM.html
29-05-2020||City||80% hike in MBBS fee: Medical education in Punjab is already costliest in region||The Punjab cabinet’s decision to hike the fee for MBBS course by 80% has added additional burden on medical aspirants, who are already being made to pay much more than their counterparts studying in government institutes in neighbouring states.With the course fee set to go up from Rs 4.4 lakh to Rs 7.8 lakh after the May 27 decision, the medical fraternity has condemned the move, even as medical education minister OP Soni justified it, stating, “The government spends around Rs 35 lakh to make a doctor. Therefore Rs 7.8 lakh is not a big amount for the entire course.”According to fee slips of various government medical colleges this year, MBBS students have paid an annual fee of around Rs 23,000 in Chandigarh, Rs 52,000 in Haryana , Rs 60,000 in Himachal Pradesh and Rs 1 lakh in Punjab, the already existing disparity being 66% to 300%.CABINET MOVE CONDEMNEDAccusing the Punjab government of apathy, Indian Medical Association, Punjab, president Dr Navjot Singh Dahiya said the fee hike of such a magnitude will cause scarcity of medical professionals, and make both medical education as well as access to healthcare services out of reach of the common man. “While the whole world is passing through the Covid-19 pandemic and there is an emergent need to promote medical education and research, the exorbitant hike in fee for medical students would hinder parents to get their wards to go for the expensive medical courses,” he said, in a joint statement along with Dr Paramjit Mann, general secretary, IMA, Punjab, while demanding an immediate rollback of the hike. The state government’s decision, in fact, comes at a time when there is a demand for complete waiver of fee for junior resident doctors and hike in their stipend. Dr Nitin Chabra, president, Resident Doctors Association, Government Medical College, Patiala, said: “MBBS students in Punjab are already paying much more than those in neighbouring states and Chandigarh. We will not accept the 80% fee hike and will fight the decision. We demand the state government immediately withdrawn it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/80-hike-in-mbbs-fee-medical-education-in-punjab-is-already-costliest-in-region/story-BaGXr9Cjoe7n2CGXSyn9LK.html
29-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt for opening neighbourhood religious places, shops in malls on odd-even basis post May 31: Reports||Allowing opening of neighbourhood religious places, shops in malls on odd-even basis and extension of market timings after May 31 are among the recommendations the Delhi government is likely to make to the Centre, sources said.However, the Delhi government is not in favour of allowing cinema halls, schools and colleges to open after May 31, when the fourth phase of the nationwide lockdown would end.The nationwide curbs was first announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 24 for 21 days in a bid to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus. It was first extended till May 3 and then again till May 17. The lockdown was further extended for the third time till May 31.Sources said famous religious places in Delhi where people gather in large numbers will remain closed. These may include Jama Masjid, Akshardham Temple and Gurudwara Bangla Sahib.They also said the government is contemplating to allow only 10 people at a neighbourhood religious place at a time to ensure social-distancing.Sources said the Delhi government is likely to send its recommendations to the Centre by Saturday. The AAP government has already advocated resumption of Delhi metro operations. “Shops in malls may be allowed to open on odd-even basis after May 31. Timings of markets are likely to extended. At present, all markets have to shut by 7 pm,” a source said. Malls are currently not allowed to open.However, the government is yet to take a call on opening of barber shops and saloons in the city, sources said, adding a discussion on it will be held on Saturday.On Thursday,  Home Minister Amit Shah spoke to all chief ministers and sought their views on extension of the ongoing nationwide lockdown beyond May 31. The telephonic conversations of the home minister had come just three days before the end of the fourth phase of the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-for-opening-neighbourhood-religious-places-shops-in-malls-on-odd-even-basis-post-may-31-reports/story-eUp9eLZdv62WnYAbQtyLFI.html
29-05-2020||City||108 government staffers to screen people for Covid-19 in Amritsar||As many as 108 employees of various government departments will now join hands with the health department in Covid-19 related duties in Amritsar, after a sudden surge in coronavirus infections in the red-zone district.The health department on Friday started training employees of education, irrigation, sports and soil conservation departments, who will soon be deployed at various public places to medically screen residents.“Leaving their present duties, the employees will be roped in to help the health department in screening people at the bus stand and railway station among other public places. The move comes after the Punjab government decided that expert health officials will only perform duties related to active surveillance and sampling of the suspected patients,” said additional deputy commissioner (ADC) Himanshu Aggarwal.Civil surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore said: “Government employees will be given professional training by health officials, led by Amardeep Singh, who is the deputy mass education and information officer. They will be trained to check Covid-19 symptoms and to conduct thermal screening of people. Since the employees will come in contact with incoming passengers, they will be made aware of the use of personal protection equipment (PPE) kits to prevent getting infected.”Dr Kishore said with the district reporting fresh Covid-19 cases daily, most of which are community transmission cases, health officials will now concentrate on tracing the source of infection. “The health officials are also collecting over 200 samples of suspected patients and random people daily to contain the spread of the disease,” he said.The district has reported 374 Covid-19 cases so far, out of which 307 have recovered and seven have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/108-government-staffers-to-screen-people-for-covid-19-in-amritsar/story-R2wJqsKpN7AkaiDekCt5FO.html
29-05-2020||City||Range Hills declared micro containment zone, 3 more positive cases reported in Khadki||PUNE The Khadki Cantonment Board (KCB) has declared Range Hills area as a micro containment zone and will be sealed for 14 days following detection of a Covid-19 (coronavirus) case in the area on Thursday. In total three Covid-19 cases were reported in KCB on Friday.Earlier this month KCB had declared two micro containment zones in the area.Pramod Kumar Singh, chief executive officer (CEO), KCB and incident commander, said, “One case has been reported from Range Hills and one case about family high-risk contact of the same quarter resident outside Cantonment limits.”According to the directions issued by the incident commander, the area has sealed for 14 days for effective containment of the virus.In the micro containment zones, all the officials will follow the guidelines of the government and the health department. Activities like mohalla clinics, medical tests and screenings will be done by the medical officers, preparation of high risk and low-risk list of contacts of the positive patients will be readied for home quarantine and public quarantine. The entire contact list of the residential area will be traced and informed to the district authorities. Except for essential services, all other activities will be closed in the micro containment zone, said officials.The senior general manager of Ammunition Factory Khadki (AFK) has been designated as the nodal officer for Range Hills micro containment zone. The necessary directions have been issued for a house to house survey by the medical team for identification of suspects and other public announcements.From: Roopesh Raphael Raj (English Content Management- Mumbai)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/range-hills-declared-micro-containment-zone-3-more-positive-cases-reported-in-khadki/story-FwUNPs74GUiqO6GdNbpClI.html
29-05-2020||City||NIA chargesheets KLF chief among 10 for running narco-terror network in Punjab||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Friday filed a chargesheet against 10 accused in the Khalistan Liberation Force (KLF) narco-terror network module case. The case pertains to seizure of 500 grams of heroin and Rs 1.2 lakh drug money from three men in Amritsar on May 31, 2019. NIA took over the probe on January 22, 2020. The role of Harmeet Singh, alias PhD, Pakistan-based self-styled chief of the banned terrorist organisation KLF, and Jasmeet Singh Hakimzada, a Dubai-based international drugs smuggler and money launderer, emerged in running the narco-terror network to further the terrorist activities of KLF. The network included persons involved in smuggling and selling of heroin, militant elements and Hawala operatives based in Punjab, Delhi and Dubai, who were responsible for the entire chain from selling of heroin and channelising the proceeds to Dubai and Pakistan at the behest of Harmeet Singh and Hakimzada. These two have been chargesheeted as absconders.Others named in the challan filed before the special NIA court in Mohali are Jajbir Singh Samra of Tarn Taran; Harpreet Singh, alias Happy, of Moga; Nirmal Singh, alias Neeldhari, of Batala in Gurdaspur; Satpal Singh, Hiralal, Harjit Singh, alias Bagga, Jasbir Singh, alias Shera, and Varinder Singh Chahal, all of Amritsar. The chargesheet has been filed under Section 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), Sections 13 (unlawful activities), 17 (raising funds for terrorist act), 18 (conspiracy) and 40 (raising funds for terrorist organisation) of the Unlawful Activities Act, and Sections 21 (contravention in relation to manufactured drugs and preparations), 25 (allowing premises to be used for commission of an offence), 27A (financing illicit traffic and harboring offenders) and 29 (abetment and criminal conspiracy) of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nia-chargesheets-klf-chief-among-10-for-running-narco-terror-network-in-punjab/story-LPUYqnDgTBY5NO6cl8pswM.html
29-05-2020||City||Drug lord Cheetah’s police remand extended till June 2||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Friday produced notorious gangster and drug lord Ranjeet Rana, alias Cheetah, in the special NIA court in Mohali via video conferencing. The court extended his police custody till June 2.Wanted in the 532-kg heroin haul from Attari, Amritsar, in June 2019, Cheetah along with his brother Gagandeep was arrested from Begu village in Haryana’s Sirsa on May 9. The catch came following the arrest of Hizbul Mujahideen operatives in Amritsar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/drug-lord-cheetah-s-police-remand-extended-till-june-2/story-tuBZxZrlYrUeIxxdPRuRwL.html
29-05-2020||Mumbai||P Varavara Rao accused in Elgar Parishad case admitted to JJ Hospital||Pendyala Varavara Rao, the 81-year-old Telugu poet arrested in connection with the Elgar Parishad case, was admitted to Sir JJ Hospital on Thursday evening.Taloja jail authorities said that Rao who has various ailments was being treated at the medical facility within the jail since the last three days. However, Rao did not show any improvement after which the jail doctor recommended him to Sir JJ Hospital.A senior IPS officer, requesting anonymity said, “Rao has been sent to JJ Hospital. He has multiple ailments and a series of tests were recommended for him at the hospital. We will know the nature of his ailments only after we get the test results.”Rao who had moved for interim bail before the special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court in Mumbai had claimed that he be granted interim bail, looking at the spread of Covid-19, as he suffered from piles, prostate enlargement, coronary artery disease, oedema/ anasarca (swelling of feet), hypertension, sinusitis, migraine and vertigo. This bail plea was adjourned to June 2.Pune police had arrested Rao in November 2018 claiming that he had direct nexus with the top underground leaders of the banned Communist Party of India (Maoist) group and that he wanted to procure arms via Nepal and Manipur, and that he was in direct touch with top Maoist leader Ganapathy. The case was then transferred to the NIA in February 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/p-varavara-rao-accused-in-elgar-parishad-case-admitted-to-jj-hospital/story-FfqBxJcAJVpc4ZPvvcV4ZK.html
29-05-2020||Mumbai||Education department releases a list of nodal officers for fee related complaints||ankita.bhatkhande@htlive.com With parents of students from several schools across the city complaining about fee hikes and pressure from schools to pay up in the middle of the Covid-19 crisis, the education department has now released a list of nodal officers to hear fee related complaints. In a circular on Thursday, the department has released a list of 87 nodal officers across 37 districts in the state with their contact details. Parents who wish to complain regarding a school indiscriminately charging fees can contact the concerned officials with their complaint. The list would be available in the public domain across websites of the state education department. On Thursday (May 29), HT had reported about Airoli based VIBGYOR high school imposing a 8-10% hike even as several parents requested the school to cancel the hike for the year 2020-21. Taking note of this, Yuva Sena, Shiv Sena’s student wing had written to the state education minister Varsha Gaikwad requesting the government to release a list of officials who parents can contact in such situations. As per a Government Resolution released in the first week of May, schools cannot hike fees for the academic year 2020-21 and have to allow parents to pay fees in instalments. Despite the GR however, several schools are reportedly asking parents to pay hiked fees or the entire fee amounts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/education-department-releases-a-list-of-nodal-officers-for-fee-related-complaints/story-vy7qxXQaxvF1mXfNybdm4O.html
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||In Ludhiana, LIP protests for restoration of cancelled blue cards||Members of the Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) staged a symbolic protest with nooses around their necks outside deputy commissioner (DC) Pradeep Agrawal’s office against alleged cancellation of blue cards of poor residents by the state Congress leadership on Friday.The leaders said the Congress party had adopted a pick-and-choose policy while distributing ration. The ration is being distributed among Congress supporters while others were being left to starve. Leading the protest, LIP’s chief spokesperson Gagandeep Singh (Sunny) Kainth said the residents and LIP had also raised the issue with state food, civil supplies and consumer affairs minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, but to no avail.“The government is discriminating against the poor while distributing ration. If the government fails to restore the blue cards, the LIP will stage protests outside the houses of cabinet ministers and Congress MLAs,” said Kainth, while adding that a memorandum regarding their demands was submitted to the DC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/in-ludhiana-lip-protests-for-restoration-of-cancelled-blue-cards/story-HAEU8LNQyJktrZsbNEZLRP.html
29-05-2020||City||Narco-terror module key accused held in Amritsar village||The Amritsar rural district police on Friday arrested prime accused Ajaypal Singh of Mode village in Ajnala subdivision in connection with a narco-terror module busted in January. The module was busted with the arrest of army jawan Rahul Chauhan of Haryana, Dharminder Singh of Dhanoa Khurd village in Amritsar, and Balkar Singh of Kalas village in Tarn Taran district. Police had also recovered two highly sophisticated China-made drones, two walkie-talkie sets, Rs 6.22 lakh in cash, and the magazine of an Insas rifle after quizzing the accused.As the investigation proceeded, police had arrested six more members of the module, which had been involved in cross-border smuggling of narcotics and weapons from Pakistan by using drones. Army jawan Chauhan was reportedly involved in procuring and supplying drones and providing training to the smugglers. Senior suprintendent of police (SSP, rural) Vikram Jeet Duggal said Ajaypal Singh was arrested in Chheharta area on the basis of a tip-off. “He was being sheltered by one Dilbagh Singh, alias Bagha, of Khasa village. A separate case of criminal harbouring has been registered against Bagha,” he said. Duggal said ten people have been arrested so far in the case and. “Certain Pakistan-based drug smugglers who were sending drugs and weapons from across the border have been identified. Ajaypal’s arrest is likely to lead to further disclosures,” said the SSP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/narco-terror-module-key-accused-held-in-amritsar-village/story-jdLnobyKQOPrbTYYxJGu9L.html
29-05-2020||City||Role of science in post Covid-19 era discussed at Ludhiana college||Ludhiana A two-day online international symposium on “Role of science in the post Covid-19 era” concluded at Gujranwala Guru Nanak Khalsa College here on Friday.SK Das, director, Indian Institute of Technology, Ropar, was the chief guest for the valedictory session.Talking about Covid-19, Das said the virus was unknown to humankind until just a few months ago, which meant that scientists needed to discover almost everything about it.SP Singh, president, Gujranwala Khalsa Educational Council and former vice-chancellor, Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, delivered the welcome address. He said the symposium had connected people from faraway places in an effective manner. As many as three technical sessions were held.Sushant Mehan, water resource engineer, Formation Environmental LLC, Sacramento, California, USA, was the resource person for the first technical session. He highlighted the vital role of science in the post Covid-19 era and how science and technology will aid us in the fight against this global pandemic.DK Shrivastav, Homi Bhabha chair professor from National Institute of Advanced Studies, Bengaluru, was the resource person for the next technical session.He spoke about the rapid advancement of climate change and the need to discuss its signs and analyse energy options available to increase the availability of electricity.Resource person Navin Acharya from department of applied physics, MS University, Baroda, spoke about the role of polymer nano-composite membranes in Covid-19 pandemic and how these membranes could help in advanced water treatment, fuel cell technology, blood purification and artificial skin grafting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/role-of-science-in-post-covid-19-era-discussed-at-ludhiana-college/story-3SlGkjN0K5f6kIakeDlyOJ.html
29-05-2020||City||Youth Akali Dal in Ludhiana demands waiver of school fee, electricity bill||The Youth Akali Dal workers, led by district president Gurdeep Singh Gosha, protested against the state government and demanded waiver of school fee and electricity bill here on Friday.The protest march started from Jagraon Bridge and ended outside the Congress office. Gosha said Congress president Sunil Jakhar had demanded that the central government should deposit Rs 10,000 in every person’s account, while Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi had sought that the Uttar Pradesh government waive electricity bills.Then why were the Punjab Congress leaders not asking Captain Amarinder Singh to waive the electricity bills during lockdown and give allowance to people, he asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/youth-akali-dal-in-ludhiana-demands-waiver-of-school-fee-electricity-bill/story-DGEuKPj9oXpcNlCrC3FSkI.html
29-05-2020||City||Ludhiana government schools hold parent-teacher meet online||After conducting classes online for students for the last two months, the government schools are now also holding parent-teacher meetings (PTMs) online.During the PTMs, teachers are telling parents about their child’s overall performance and that the subjects they need to improve in. The parents are being told about the syllabus that has been covered till date and are being asked to ensure that their children are attending the virtual classes.The authorities are sending a four-point form to parents that is to be filled and submitted after the online PTM.In the form, they are asked questions related to the mode their ward is using to attend the online classes, difficulties faced by them amid the Covid-19 crisis, their ward’s behaviour and the activities that they are engaged in at home.The school principals are also interacting with parents. Anita Bedi, principal, Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Jawahar Nagar, said, “The idea behind conducting the PTM online was to tell parents about the strengths, weaknesses and interests of their wards. We received an overwhelming response from the parents.”“We conducted the meetings for three days to cover all the students of classes 6 to 12. Majority of the parents attended the PTM and appreciated the teachers for conducting classes online,” she added.Sanjeev Thapar, principal of Government Model Senior Secondary Smart School, Punjab Agricultural University, said, “The teachers have briefed the parents regarding the performance of their children. Parents attended the meeting online and in the feedback lauded the school authorities for continuing with the studies online. The online classes keep students engaged for three to four hours daily and there’s been no loss of studies in the last two months.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-government-schools-hold-parent-teacher-meet-online/story-RdqfB6QdTzlSJkPWRqTRzK.html
29-05-2020||Mumbai||PIL seeks sanitary napkins to be declared essential commodity, HC asks Centre to respond||The Bombay high court on Friday directed the central government to respond to public interest litigation (PIL) seeking an order to declare sanitary napkins as an essential commodity and start its distribution through the public distribution system, along with other essential commodities.A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice KK Tated has now posted the PIL jointly filed by law graduate Nikita Gore, who is working as a research assistant at Aurangabad bench of the high court, and law student Vaishnavi Gholave.In the PIL filed through advocate Vinod Sangvikar, they have highlighted the plight of thousands of women and adolescent girls travelling with migrant labourers amidst the nationwide lockdown imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19.In this regard, the PIL states that care is being taken for making all other provisions for travelling migrant labourers, but there is complete neglect on this specific need of menstruating women.Highlighting the need of easy access to sanitary napkins, the PIL states that hygienic menstrual absorbents help adolescent girls and women to manage menstruation effectively, safely, comfortably and fearlessly. The freedom from the fear of leakage or unpleasant odour increase their ability to be at school or at the workplace during menstruation.Women cannot predict when menstruation will start, therefore there should be easy availability and supply of sanitary pads and clothes at family level as well as schools and workplaces, it states further.It added that for hygienic and proper menstruation management a system is evolved which consists of easy access to hygienic absorbents, availability of the facility for cleaning and disposal of used absorbents or waste with privacy and dignity.The petitioners have asserted that sanitary napkins are essential requirement of every woman and women have the right to get them at a cheaper rate as on an average, every woman spends about 3,000 days of her life menstruating and lack of cleanliness during this period may lead to infections.Therefore, they have also sought proper implementation of the national guidelines for menstrual hygiene management issued in 2015 by Union ministry of drinking water and sanitation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pil-seeks-sanitary-napkins-to-be-declared-essential-commodity-hc-asks-centre-to-respond/story-RHlKNSE7WlCnU6FyMCkg1N.html
29-05-2020||City||TMC yet to decide on reopening of schools||While the state government has asked schools to reopen from June 15 in areas which are not red zones, Thane Municipal Corporation is yet to decide on the same. TMC plans to continue online classes for the time being for private schools. “We are not ready to allow children to attend schools. Moreover, some of the school premises are also being used as quarantine centres. We would recommend schools within TMC jurisdiction to continue with online classes. However, we are yet to decide on how to begin classes of the next academic year for civic school students,” said Rajesh Kankal, education officer, TMC.As it is difficult for students from civic schools to have provisions of a proper internet connection and smartphone access, it is not easy to provide online classes. “For students of Class 9 and 10, we may provide tablets so that they can begin with their studies and will not miss out on the academics in any way. We are yet to take a call on the same,” said an officer from TMC, on condition of anonymity.Meanwhile, most private schools have started preparing teachers, for teaching online, “We have to make slight changes in the curriculum based on how it can be taught online and teachers have started working on this. Schools are also exchanging notes and ideas on how to go about teaching the students from younger sections, especially, in state board schools where there are around 50 to 60 students in a class,” said RJ Rajput, principal MH High School and Junior College. Rajput is also the Chairman of Thane Principal’s Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tmc-yet-to-decide-on-reopening-of-schools/story-bWS0YsGrdZAtk7K1PYbcBN.html
29-05-2020||City||Disturbed over broken family, 20-year-old Ludhiana man ends life||Disturbed over the strained relationships of his parents, a 20-year-old man ended his life by hanging himself at their rented accommodation in New Kundanpuri on Friday morning.Before taking the extreme step, the youth recorded a video message on his mobile phone and left a three-page suicide note written in Punjabi, where he stated that no one is responsible for his death.Police said the youth was a salesman at a cosmetics shop, and lived in New Kundanpuri with his father, a washerman, for the past three years.Inspector Jarnail Singh, SHO at Division Number police station 8, said the deceased was found hanging by his father, who raised the alarm and informed the police.“We reached the spot and initiated investigation. In the suicide note, the youth mentioned that he had also recorded a video message in his mobile phone, following which we scanned his phone,” the SHO said.“In the 4.23-minute video message, he has requested his father to reunite with his mother and younger brother. He also wished his brother to perform his last rites,” he added.The inspector said the deceased’s mother and younger brother lived in Delhi due to strained relations with his father. They have been informed about the incident.The police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure following the statement of the youth’s father.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/disturbed-over-broken-family-20-year-old-ludhiana-man-ends-life/story-Hw04Gq56k97gbJ7RYr3wYL.html
29-05-2020||City||NRI from Oman, new mother found Covid positive in Mohali||A 33-year-old Non-Resident Indian (NRI) from Oman and a 29-year-old woman from Dappar village tested positive for Covid-19 in Mohali on Friday, taking the district count to 112.The woman had delivered a child at the Army Hospital in Ambala on May 27, following which she was tested and found infected with coronavirus. Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said they had traced all her contacts and sealed the area in Dappar village where she lived. “She remains admitted at the Army Hospital only,” he saidThe NRI, a resident of Dashmesh Nagar in Zirakpur, had landed at Indira Gandhi International Airport in Delhi on May 22 and reached Mohali by road after which the district administration officials quarantined him at a hotelThe civil surgeon said the patient had been shifted to Gian Sagar Hospital on Banur, adding that all patients admitted there were responding well to the treatment.The 33-year-old is the second NRI to test positive in the district in the past two days.On May 28, a 32-year-old NRI from the US was also found infected. A resident of Humayun Nagar in Dera Bassi, he had also flown in to Delhi and reached Mohali by road. He had been under quarantine at the government meritorious school in Mohali since May 20. Of the 112 cases in Mohali, 102 people have been discharged so far, a recovery rate of 91%. Three people have succumbed to the virus, a fatality rate of 2.6%. The district now has seven active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/33-year-old-nri-from-oman-found-covid-positive-in-mohali/story-vsOVxb0WGTGkdoeoLMfoBL.html
29-05-2020||City||Alertness, minimal public movement a priority: J&K chief secretary||With a recent surge in Covid-19 cases across the country following substantive relaxations in the movement of people via air and rail routes under lockdown 4.0, it has become all the more imperative to be aggressive in contact tracing and surveillance, chief secretary, B V R Subrahmanyam said this while reviewing the mitigation efforts in the Union territory with all deputy commissioners and chief medical officers, here over a video conference.At the outset financial commissioner, health gave out a brief regarding the state of readiness and the coronavirus case scenario in Jammu and Kashmir. It was revealed that with 11,835 tests per million population, Jammu and Kashmir is highest in the country. The doubling rate of 17.2 days and recovery rate of around 44% in the Union territory is also more than the national average.Appreciating the efforts of the health workers and administration across all districts in dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic, chief secretary said that 48% of all positive cases in the UT, being contacts, indicate highly aggressive contact tracing and surveillance. Whereas travellers from different parts of the country amounting to 32% of the total positive cases can be attributed to the stringent policy to sample, test and quarantine of each incoming individual to the UT, he added.Attributing the recent spike in cases in some districts to the influx of travellers from outside J&K, Subrahmanyam directed the concerned DCs to ensure that very stringent movement policy remains in force to restrict any kind of non-essential inter-state movement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/alertness-minimal-public-movement-a-priority-j-k-chief-secretary/story-4rsW1ynJARaQplIx5SIpbM.html
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||Mobile phones, cash stolen from shop in Chandigarh’s Sector 37||Thieves targeted a mobile shop in the Sector 37 market and decamped with mobile phones and cash on the intervening night of May 27 and 28.Anil Dhingra, a resident of Sector 21, told the police that the thieves took away mobile phones worth Rs 12 lakh and Rs 4,000 in cash. Dhingra said on May 27, he went home around 6pm after locking his shop, ADS Mobile Arcade, in Sector 37C.When he and his salesman opened the shop the next morning, they realised there had been a theft.Investigations revealed that the miscreants entered the shop by breaking the plywood partition separating the mobile shop from the general store running in the back side in the same showroom. They first broke the locks of the general store and then the partition to enter the mobile shop.The wires of the CCTV cameras of the mobile shop were snapped, but police have taken into custody the digital video recorder of the general store. A case under Sections 380 (Theft in dwelling house, etc) and 457 (lurking house-trespass or house-breaking by night in order to commit offence punishable with imprisonment) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Sector 39 police station.Police are working to identify and trace the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mobile-phones-cash-stolen-from-shop-in-chandigarh-s-sector-37/story-dD4s0CLqm9GcOkojZmSu7L.html
29-05-2020||City||With 128 fresh Covid-19 infections, J&K tally rises to 2,164||Jammu and Kashmir on Friday recorded 128 fresh COVID-19 infections, raising its tally to 2,164, officials said.Of the new cases, 92 are from Kashmir and 36 from Jammu division.In Kashmir, the fresh cases are from Anantnag, Kulgam, Srinagar, Kupwara, Shopian, Baramulla, and Pulwama districts, taking the total tally in the division to 1,728. The highest jump was recorded in Srinagar with 27 new cases while Kulgam reported 19 new cases followed by Kupwara and Pulwama with 18 and 13 infections respectively. There were single digit jumps in other districts of the Valley.“58 out of 842 samples tested at CD Hospital were found to be positive. Among the positive cases, four are pregnant women from Anantnag ,” Dr Salim Khan said.In Jammu division, new cases are from Jammu, Kathua, Udhampur, Samba, Poonch and Rajouri districts.This is for the third day in a row that the Union territory recorded more than 100 cases. On Thursday, 115 more people had tested postive for the disease and 162 new cases were reported on Wednesday.70-yr-old man dies, death toll rises to 28The sample of a 70-year-old man from south Kashmir’s Shopian, who had died in Srinagar on Thursday, has tested positive for the virus, officials said. Officials said the man was admitted at Shri Maharaja Hari Singh (SMHS) Hospital in Srinagar on Wednesday with Pneumonia, underlying hypertension and diabetes mellitus.“He died on Thursday evening and now his sample report shows positive for SARS COV-2,” said Dr Salim Khan, nodal officer for Covid-19 in J&K.With this, the death toll due to Covid-19 in Jammu and Kashmir has risen to 28. Of the total fatalities, 25 are from Kashmir division and three from Jammu division.Also, 16 more patients were discharged– five from Jammu division and 11 from Kashmir. So far, 875 people have recovered in J&K. At present, active cases in Kashmir stand at 929 and 332 are in Jammu.Till date, 1.58 lakh people in contact with suspected cases have been put under surveillance—34,495 in home quarantine, 54 in hospital quarantine and 41,525 under home surveillance. Besides these, 81,410 people have completed their 28-day surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-128-fresh-covid-19-infections-j-k-tally-rises-to-2-164/story-ndEYUKZ0CnO8zjXch08s3J.html
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||Car driver arrested for not wearing face mask in Chandigarh||Not wearing a face mask while driving your car can invite an FIR in Chandigarh.In probably the first such case, the Chandigarh Police arrested a Mullanpur resident for the offence on Friday night. A police patrol party intercepted the car being driven by Randeep Singh Bhanott of Mullanpur in Sector 44 around 3am, and found he was not wearing a face mask. Police said on being stopped, Bhanott started arguing with the PCR team, as well as the beat patrol party.He was booked under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Sector 34 police station. He was later let off on bail.As per the directives of the UT administration, wearing a mask is mandatory while being in public, while movement of vehicles is banned between 7pm and 7am in the city. PEDESTRIAN ARRESTED Similarly, Sanjiv Kumar, a resident of Manimajra, was arrested near Kishangarh Chowk, Chandigarh, for not wearing a face mask and disobeying the lockdown orders issued by the district magistrate. He was later released on bail. A case in this regard was registered under Section 188 of the IPC at the IT Park police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/car-driver-arrested-for-not-wearing-face-mask-in-chandigarh/story-vK7uAuFBvdilzgOMtkS0tO.html
29-05-2020||City||Three youths held with 90gm heroin in Mohali||Three youths were arrested for possessing 90gm heroin near Dara Studio Chowk in Phase 6 on Thursday night. The accused have been identified as Manoj Kumar Yadav of Ram Darbar, Chandigarh; Sachin of Manimajra, Chandigarh; and Jatinder Singh of Samrala, Ludhiana district. Station house officer of Phase 1, Manphool Singh said his team, along with the Crime Investigation Agency (CIA), laid a naka near Dara Studio Chowk following a tip-off. The men approached the check post in a car from Chandigarh side and on seeing the cops, tried to take a U-turn. However, cops managed to intercept them and on checking the vehicle, recovered 90gm heroin from it. The trio was arrested and the vehicle impounded. A case under relevant sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act was registered at the Phase 1 police station. The accused were produced before a court on Friday and sent to two-day police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-youths-held-with-90gm-heroin-in-mohali/story-9XG2MhX3KAHvLZJEie6cIM.html
29-05-2020||City||HP govt must issue white paper on purchases made by health department, says Congress||The Congress on Friday demanded the Himachal Pradesh government should issue a white paper regarding all the purchases made by the state’s health department and a judicial inquiry into an alleged corruption case against former director health services. In a statement issued by the leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri said that even when the whole world is battling coronavirus pandemic, scams in the health department during such sensitive times is a definition of treason. Therefore, it is necessary to take extensive steps in order to maintain trust in the government machinery.He said that the state government should reveal that how many purchases were made without tendering since the lockdown was imposed and how many tenders were received and rejected and for whose benefit direct purchases were made instead of finalising tenders.“Resignation of state BJP president is not a small incident as it is linked with the health scam. Therefore, all the events from the beginning till now including letter bomb should be brought under scrutiny,” said Agnihotri.State BJP president Rajeev Bindal had resigned from his post on Wednesday within four-and-a-half months of his appointment, saying he was doing so to ensure a proper investigation into the case of alleged corruption by the health department official. In a resignation letter sent to BJP president J P Nadda, Bindal said he was tendering his resignation on high moral grounds as some people were dragging the party’s name in the alleged corruption case. The state government has not even clarified abrupt removal of principal of Indira Gandhi Medical College, Shimla. Earlier irregularities in purchases in the state’s Ayurveda department were also revealed, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hp-govt-must-issue-white-paper-on-purchases-made-by-health-department-says-congress/story-O2IEZcV1reKOHy2ZrjXRTI.html
29-05-2020||Mumbai||3 cops defeat virus at Mira Road; 10 test positive in Vasai and Virar stations||Three constables from the Mira Road police station who had contracted Covid-19, tested negative of the novel coronavirus on Friday and were discharged from the Mira Bhayandar civic hospital. In another case, 10 policemen from Vasai and Virar police stations tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday morning. “Around 40 cops at the Mira Road police station were tested, of which three were positive and were admitted to the civic hospital. Their tests came negative on Friday and they have been discharged,” said senior police inspector Sandip Kadam from Mira Road police station. Eight policemen from Vasai and two from Virar police stations tested positive. “Around 44 policemen who came in contact with these cops have been quarantined,” said Vijaykant Sagar, additional superintendent of police, Vasai. “We have not sealed the station and will continue work to control the virus spread,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/3-cops-defeat-virus-at-mira-road-10-test-positive-in-vasai-and-virar-stations/story-cFyFiFKUeRWPTvH2ANvCCK.html
29-05-2020||City||Climate meet COP26 to be held next November||The 26th conference of parties, or COP26, of the United Nations scheduled to be held in Glasgow later this year has now been postponed due to the coronavirus pandemic to November 2021 following consultations with stakeholders, officials said on Friday.Alok Sharma, business secretary in the Boris Johnson government and the COP26 president, said: “While we rightly focus on fighting the immediate crisis of the coronavirus, we must not lose sight of the huge challenges of climate change”.“With the new dates for COP26 now agreed, we are working with our international partners on an ambitious road map for global climate action between now and November 2021. The steps we take to rebuild our economies will have a profound impact on our societies’ future sustainability, resilience and well-being and COP26 can be a moment where the world unites behind a clean resilient recovery”.The decision on the new date comes as the UK government announced that over 25 experts in multiple global sectors will be advising the COP26 Presidency. The Friends of COP bring expertise from countries across six continents, including France, Barbados, Chad, Australia, India and Peru.As the host of COP26 in November 2021, the officials said, the UK will continue to work with all involved to increase climate action, build resilience and lower emissions. The new date will also allow the UK and Italian partners to harness incoming G7 and G20 presidencies in driving climate ambition.UN climate change executive secretary Patricia Espinosa said: “Our efforts to address climate change and Covid-19 are not mutually exclusive. If done right, the recovery from the Covid-19 crisis can steer us to a more inclusive and sustainable climate path”.Meanwhile, Prime Minister Boris Johnson has announced that groups of up to six people will be able to meet outdoors in England from next Monday, provided strict social distancing guidelines are followed, as part of steps towards easing the country’s coronavirus lockdown.The devolved administration of Scotland has begun easing its lockdown from Friday, allowing people from two households to meet outside so long as they keep at least two metres of distance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/climate-meet-cop26-to-be-held-next-november/story-H7b6b3ef4YRXzdGgcnii1L.html
29-05-2020||Mumbai||250 tribals protest for ration cards in Palghar, booked||More than 250 tribals were booked by the Palghar police on Thursday for staging a sit-in protest in front of the tehsil offices, demanding ration cards as they were denied foodgrains by the state government. The agitation entered its third day on Friday, though no arrest was made so far.The government had stated that tribals who do not have ration cards will be issued the same after they apply before the tehsil offices, said Vivek Pandit, ex-MLA and president, Shramjeevi Sanghatana, a tribal welfare outfit which is organising the stir. So far, around 19,000 applications are lying pending before the tehsil offices in Palghar, Raigad, Nashik and Thane districts since the past few weeks and till now only a small fraction of the applicants were issued new ration cards, said Pandit. No reason is being given for the delay in the new ration cards issuance, said Pandit. The protestors are also demanding work under the employment guarantee scheme (EGS), said Pandit.The tribals wore face masks and maintained social distance and a group of 50 protestors sat opposite the tehsil offices in batches, said Pandit. Without a ration card, the tribal cannot get rice, wheat, pulses, edible oil and other essential commodities, but the government is delaying in issuing the cards, he said.Pandit had petitioned before the HC recently, where the court ordered the state government to issue ration cards to those tribals who do not possess such and with which essential commodities could be procured. Now it seems that the issuance of the ration cards will be a distant dream for the tribals he added.The group alleged that the police were registering the offences in the night and not during day time when the agitation takes place and this itself reflects their intention.A spokesperson of the Palghar police have confirmed that around 250 tribals have been booked under sections 188 (disobedience), 269 (spread of infection) of the IPC and relevant sections of the Epidemic Act and National Disaster Management Act, 2005, though no arrest was made.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/250-tribals-protest-for-ration-cards-in-palghar-booked/story-YtPLrhCsxRo5kXK4t525SK.html
29-05-2020||City||Bear attacking orchards increases worries of orchardists, farmers||Bear attacking apple and cherry orchards and farms in several parts of the Shimla district is giving sleepless nights to orchardists and farmers of the region. Farmers who are already affected by the lockdown and recent heavy rainfall and hailstorm, are now worried and scared due to bears entering their farms, destroying crops and injuring people.Kotgarh divisional forest officer Arvind Kumar said that though the department conducts training camps to help villagers, they have not been able to conduct training camps this year. In camps, people are taught about domestic methods like using chilly smoke, always remaining in groups, shouting if confronted by a bear amongst others to save themselves and their farms from bears.He said that traps, cameras and cages to catch bears have been installed in many places.Rohit Shyam, an orchardist from Kotgarh said that fear of bear also affects their work in farms and orchards. “Every year during this period, bears destroy crops and even attack people. We have also spoken to the forest department regarding this. Recently, a bear destroyed the crops of a farmer in Sainj of Shimla district.”Shimla district is a major producer of apples and stone fruits especially cherries.Bear attacks Nepalese man in Shimla districtA Nepalese man was attacked and injured by a bear in Punan village, Nankhari of Shimla district.The person identified as Khem Bahadur had gone to nearby jungle to feed his goats with another man and was suddenly attacked and dragged by a bear. His friend started to make noise and the bear ran away.The injured was taken to Civil Hospital, Nankhari from where he received 13 stitches on his head. He was later referred to Indira Gandhi Medical College, Shimla for treatment.The incident has scared local residents and they have demanded the forest department to catch the bear.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bear-attacking-orchards-increases-worries-of-orchardists-farmers/story-QRVCSZSaqWNV7ZIaEVwP3O.html
29-05-2020||City||Chandigarh’s Covid-19 positivity rate higher than that of neighbouring states||Chandigarh: Out of every 100 persons tested for Covid-19 in Chandigarh in the last few months, six were found positive, a number way higher than the national average of four positive cases out of 100 persons tested, data analysed by Hindustan Times reveals.The neighbouring states too seem to have fared better than Chandigarh with less than three out of every 100 tests confirming positive in Punjab and one each in Haryana and Himachal Pradesh.After the first Covid-19 cases were reported and till May 28, Punjab tested 78,014 persons, of which 2,158 tested positive ( 2.7% positivity rate); and Haryana conducted 1,08,031 tests with 1,504 testing positive (1.3% positivity rate). Of the 32,449 tests Himachal Pradesh conducted, 281 tested positive, accounting for 0.88% positivity rate. ‘High-risk population means higher positivity rates’Meanwhile Chandigarh conducted 4,467 tests till May, out of which 288 were positive, which translated to a positivity rate of 6.4%. Similarly, in April, with 843 people tested and 56 persons infected, the positivity rate was 6.6% . However, May 11 had a major spike when 181 out of 2,177 tested positive (8.3%), after which the numbers decreased, suggesting that a high risk population could have been tested, including contacts of positive persons.On the high positivity rates, Dr Sonu Goel, community health expert at the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) , said the numbers depended on how many people were tested and from where. “If screened from a high risk population and very less from low risk, then it is bound to be high,” he added.Positivity rate touched 10% to 12% in Covid-19 hotspot“In the most affected part of the city, Bapu Dham colony, the test positivity rate touches around 10% to 12%. This means a high risk group is being tested, which leads to overall hike in the test positivity rate. In Haryana and other states testing might not be concentrated in specific groups. It may also suggest how much the virus has spread in the specific community or area as well,” said a senior epidemiologist at PGIMER who did not wish to be named. The Chandigarh health department, which earlier had drawn flak for low testing numbers has attributed the high positivity rate to a focused testing policy according to Central government guidelines.“Ideally, no category of persons should be excluded from testing and no one should be included in the testing protocol framed by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). However, some states are doing testing for domestic airline arrivals as well as asymptomatic persons, which is not advised by ICMR so far,” UT health secretary Arun Kumar Gupta said. Similarly testing has been extended to other categories of people (in other states). “So, if any state extends the protocol beyond Central government guidelines, the positivity or confirmation rate is likely to be low,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-s-covid-19-positivity-rate-higher-than-that-of-neighbouring-states/story-hZigK8tqqIX08TRwLRAAoI.html
29-05-2020||Kolkata||Cyclone Amphan death toll mounts to 98; Bengal govt announces Rs 6,250 crore package||The death toll left behind by Cyclone Amphan mounted to 98 from 86 on Friday, as more reports poured in from remote villages in the cyclone hit districts of West Bengal, more than a week after the storm battered the state on May 20.Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee administration announced a relief and reconstruction package of Rs 6,250 crore, more than half of which has already been released, she said.“The situation is extremely bad. Villagers don’t even have drinking water. Donate whatever you can. We will accept even one rupee from you. But please don’t donate your discarded clothes. You can even donate books, food and tarpaulin,” Banerjee said with folded hands at a press conference at the state secretariat.The centre had earlier announced a relief package of Rs 1,000 crore for Bengal after Prime Minister Narendra Modi made an aerial survey of the two worst hit districts on May 23. The state too had earlier announced a package of Rs 1,000 crore. The package announced by Banerjee on Friday was over and above these.More than half a million villagers who have lost their huts and more than two million farmers will be provided grants and assistance from the Rs 6,250 crore package. Rs 250 crore will be used to install tube wells, Rs 200 crore to repair embankments, Rs 200 crore to rebuild roads, Rs 100 crore for those who have lost cattle and poultry and Rs 100 crore for repairing school buildings among others.“I don’t know whether any other state worked with such lightning speed after any disaster to provide relief. Out of the Rs 6,250 crore, nearly 5000 crore have already been released. Money was directly transferred to the bank account of one lakh villagers on Friday,” Banerjee said.She also urged samaritans to donate to the state government’s fund and not to provide relief to the villagers directly.“We know, who have received relief and who are still in need of it. You may miss out if you go there directly. Please donate to us. We will distribute it equally without discrimination,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/cyclone-amphan-death-toll-mounts-to-98-bengal-govt-announces-rs-6-250-crore-package/story-KI2Eg8X86aAHR7hqAU9USK.html
29-05-2020||Kolkata||Death toll due to Cyclone Amphan in West Bengal now 98: Mamata Banerjee||The death toll due to cyclone ‘Amphan’ in West Bengal has risen to 98, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said on Friday.“As per reports of the district magistrates, the toll due to cyclone Amphan has gone up from 86 to 98. We are sending money to those who have lost their lives in the disaster,” Banerjee said.She said that the kin of each of those killed in the cyclone will get Rs 2.5 lakh each while those badly injured and others with minor injuries will get Rs 50,000 and Rs 25,000, respectively.The chief minister also announced a fund of Rs 6,250 crore to assist the affected people to build houses, help farmers, provide assistance for betel leaf plantations as well as construction and repair of tubewells.Referring to the restoration of power supply in the districts after the May 20 cyclone, Banerjee said 80 per cent power has been restored in six districts and 100 per cent in 10 others. All 273 electric sub-stations have been restored in the districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/death-toll-due-to-cyclone-amphan-in-west-bengal-now-98-mamata-banerjee/story-u4bZBaFjLKe2E5VFTI41BI.html
29-05-2020||City||Efforts required to popularise Sanskrit among people: Himachal CM||The Himachal Pradesh government has given the status of second official language to Sanskrit and efforts should be made to make it more practical and simple so that it can be popularised amongst the masses, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said on Friday.He was speaking after releasing a newsletter published by the Himachal Pradesh Board of School Education (HPBoSE), Dharamshala, in Hindi, Sanskrit and English.Lauding the HPBoSE for bringing out the newsletter in Sanskrit, Thakur said the government is ensuring that studies of students do not suffer due to the lockdown.He said the Doordarshan Gianshala Programme was launched by the state government to provide home teaching facility to the students.Thakur said the HPBoSE must install CCTV cameras in all examination centres to discourage students from using unfair means. He also appreciated the efforts of the board for providing an opportunity to students who failed in March, 2019, and re-appeared in the examinations held in June 2019 along with State Open School candidates.The CM also felt the need to promote moral education, vedic maths and vocational education in school curriculum.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/efforts-required-to-popularise-sanskrit-among-people-himachal-cm/story-NgKhb7I1LXmGnbuOej1IKL.html
29-05-2020||City||Two booked for planning terror activities in Punjab||Two men with links with the militant outfit Khalistan Liberation Force have been booked for planning “disruptive activities” in Punjab, the state special operation cell (SSOC) said on Friday. While refusing to confirm their names or whether the duo has been arrested, deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Rakesh Kumar, on whose complaint the case was registered at the SSOC police station in Mohali, said, “The matter is under investigation and we cannot reveal any information at this moment.” According to sources, the suspects are having contacts with Gursharanveer Singh, an “active member” of KLF.The FIR, registered under Section 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 18 (conspiracy) and 20 (being member of a terrorist outfit) of the Unlawful Activities Act, states that the duo also has links with smugglers to obtain consignments of arms and ammunition for targeted killing and to create terror in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-booked-for-planning-terror-activities-in-punjab/story-JuKL8sOIN3hj3K8uj65tcM.html
29-05-2020||City||Of 1 lakh returnees in J&K, nearly 800 test positive for Covid-19 since May 1||Of the nearly 1 lakh returnees to Jammu and Kashmir, over 800 have tested positive for coronavirus since May 1, said Bhupinder Kumar, nodal officer of the Union territory on Friday. The administration had made Covid-19 testing mandatory for those returning to the Union territory which has helped combat the spread of the infection, the official said.Principal secretary, information, and government spokesperson Rohit Kansal said that the J&K administration has been able to combat the pandemic in better ways than some of the bigger and resourceful states.“In order to control the spread of the disease, the administration had intensified testing and despite constraints, it provided better facilities in the shortest possible time,” he said.The principal secretary added that the administration got its labs accredited, roped in other hospitals, entered into an agreement with ICMR accredited private labs and also went ahead with pool testing to maximise its capacity.“We also accorded attention to robust contact tracing and aggressive testing that included red zones and containment areas,” he said.“When the stranded residents started returning in the UT, we made Covid-19 testing mandatory for all. It helped us detect and isolate positive patients. Given that most of them were asymptomatic, had they not been tested they would have continued undetected and potentially infected a large number of people,” said Kansal.The UT has been conducting 7,000 to 8,000 tests per day in eight labs, probably highest in the country.These labs are located in SKIMS, GMC Srinagar and Jammu, Command Hospital Udhampur, IIIM lab in Jammu, SKIMSJV college in Bemina, and two ICMR approved private labs.Till Thursday, a total of 2,036 positive cases were reported. Of this 859 have been cured and 1150 are active cases. The UT has reported 27 Covid-19 deaths so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/of-1-lakh-returnees-in-j-k-nearly-800-test-positive-for-covid-19-since-may-1/story-oBN35ChreDL9GKi9O0bxlK.html
29-05-2020||City||Spike in pass percentages for class 9, 11 of Delhi govt schools after revised promotion policy||New Delhi: In the class 9 results of the 2019-2020 academic year declared Tuesday as per revised promotion policies, government schools in Delhi saw the highest pass percentage in at least five years, data accessed by Hindustan Times has revealed. In class 11, meanwhile, the pass percentage improved from last year’s 84.8% to 96.2% this year.These figures are significant in light of the fact that the promotion of these students of these classes was based on a revised policy on the subject, outlined by the Directorate of Education as a one-time measure necessitated by the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease crisis as well as the riots which took place in northeast Delhi in February.Under this formula, the students of these classes who appeared for the exams were allotted grace marks to reach 33%, the passing bar, in the five main subjects. Earlier, a minimum of 25% marks was mandatory in the 60-marks’ annual exam. The revised policy also stated that students who could not appear for their final exams due to the riots or the Covid-19 crisis be given marks proportional to their mid-term results.Going by the data, at least 64.5% of the 2,79,377 students of Delhi government schools who had appeared for class 9 exams for the 2019-20 academic year have been promoted to Class 10. The total number of students who appeared in class 9 exams this year was 4.4% more than last year, the data reveals.For class 11, the pass percentage is higher. Out of the 1,65,650 students of Delhi government schools who had appeared for the exams this year, around 96%, or 1,59,283 students, have been promoted. Last year, the pass percentage for class 11 was at 84.8%. The total number of students who appeared for the class 11 exams this year was 24% more than last year, the data reveals.“Marks are compiled on the basis of exams that were already conducted before the lockdown or the northeast Delhi disturbance. Apart from giving weightage for midterm and internal assessments, a maximum grace of 15 marks is given in one or more subjects together, keeping in view the special circumstances in which the students had to take exam this year,” a senior government official said, asking not to be named.The students who could not be promoted under this revised promotion policy, however, will be given a chance to reappear in one or any number of subjects in which they could not clear the exam. “That re-examination is likely to be conducted in July 2020, for which the DOE will issue a date sheet soon,” the official cited above added.Principals across government schools in the Capital, meanwhile, also acknowledged the jump in pass percentage of these classes. Awadhesh Kr Jha, principal of a government school in Rohini’s Sector 8, said, “We’ve had student-friendly results this time and there has been a marked improvement in results from previous years. Students were also given grace marks keeping the stress of the pandemic in mind. In our school, the pass percentage for class 9 is around 10% better than last year. For class 11, it is even better as only eight students got compartment results. Earlier, this figure used to be 20-30 students.”However, concerns over how students will perform in board exams next year remains. “We are concerned about how students will perform since they cannot come to school for regular classes. We are hoping to make up for the lost time once the Covid-19 pandemic situation is better so as to maintain the quality of the board results,” Jha said.The school also plans to write to the education department to recommend classroom teaching for board students in July while maintaining staggered timings and social distancing measures, he said.“A reduction in the syllabus is actively being considered. So it is likely that the same syllabus won’t have to be covered in a reduced timeframe,” a senior education department official, requesting anonymity, said over the matter.Earlier in April, Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia had written to the Union minister of human resource development to reduce the curriculum by 30%.Delhi government schools have been criticised for their poor pass percentages for class 9 in the past, owing to a number of reasons including low-learning levels in primary classes, lack of regular teachers, and the no-detention policy which did not allow schools to fail students until class 8. While the government has introduced certain learning interventions such as the Mission Buniyaad and Chunauti scheme to rectify this, critics say it has done little to improve pass percentage in higher classes.According to the 2019 Praja Foundation report around 55% of class 9 students of the 2016-17 academic year did not pass their annual exams. The corresponding number for class 12 was relatively lower at 24%, but still a drop of over 36,000 students.Addressing these concerns, a senior government official, on condition of anonymity, said, “Focus has to be on improving learning levels during primary classes. Class 6 onwards, the lessons get difficult for the child if they don’t have basic foundational learning. This is what Mission Buniyaad is working on.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/spike-in-pass-percentages-for-class-9-11-of-delhi-govt-schools-after-revised-promotion-policy/story-z63D7qM9ZOwumIoFJ9c1NK.html
29-05-2020||City||Gangster Arun Gawli’s parole extended by five days||The Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court (HC) extended the parole of gangster Arun Gawli by five days on Friday. Gawli is serving a life sentence at Nagpur jail for the murder of Shiv Sena corporator Kamlakar Jamsandekar. He now has to surrender before the Nagpur central prison on June 2. Gawli, who is on parole from February 26 for his daughter Yogita’s wedding, was directed by the bench to surrender at the Taloja Jail in Navi Mumbai after refusing to extend his parole last week.In a petition before the court on Friday, Gawli’s counsel said that as per the court directives, he went to Taloja prison on May 24 to surrender, however, the jail superintendent refused his entry. The gangster then approached the divisional commissioner, Nagpur, through an application, citing the development. Gawli then moved a fresh plea to the bench, seeking a parole extension. On hearing both the sides, a division bench of justices SB Shukre and Anil Kilor granted a five-day extension. The court further directed him to apply for travel permission to the competent authority within the next 24 hours and thereafter he has to surrender within before the Nagpur central prison on June 2. The gangster was originally supposed to surrender on April 27, but following the national lockdown, his parole was extended on April 23 for seven days. On April 30, the parole was again extended by another week. Finally, the HC on May 17, directed Gawli to appear before the jail authorities within a period of seven days. Gawli again moved the HC for an extension till May 31 and grant him a further period of seven days to travel to Nagpur from Mumbai for surrendering.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gangster-arun-gawli-s-parole-extended-by-five-days/story-KOr18OYPOQZ1uHjxjaPBYK.html
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||Two months on, once brimming eateries along the NH-44 on verge of closure||Before the coronavirus-induced lockdown, eateries lining the NH-44 used to be brimming with customers but two months of lockdown have left these popular joints on the verge of closure. The Karnal Haveli, Zhilmil, Mannat, Neelkanth, Divine Star, Dana Pani, The Vivan, Mayur and Fauji Dhaba are just some of the outlets famous for their lip-smacking fares. Commuters would make it a point to stop at these eateries.The hospitality industry is perhaps one of the worst-hit industries amid the pandemic. Owners say the two-and-a-half month closure has wrecked irreparable damage and that there was little hope of revival.PROSPECTS LOOK BLEAK, SAY DHABA OWNERSMannat Star Dhaba manager Pradeep Rawat says, “We had to send back around 110 employees as there was no possibility of revival over the next six months.”Though the government has allowed home delivery of edibles, owners of these eateries are reluctant to resume services. They say restaurants and dhabas cannot survive on home delivery of orders, which contribute a meager 5% of their earnings.Zhilmil Karnal Dhaba manager Surinder Mittal says, “There have been no sales since March 22. We have lost around Rs 1.25 lakh a day during the lockdown.”Mittal says the dhaba had to reduce its staff strength from 55 to 10 members to keep the eatery afloat.“The dhaba is costing us around Rs 5,000 a day these days, apart from the electricity bill and other fixed expenses,” he said. CMs ASSURANCES FAIL TO RESUSCITATE HOPE The issue was raised before chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar during his recent visit to Karnal. Though, the CM hinted that more relaxations might be given (as per MHA orders) from June 1, dhaba owners were not placated.“The number of cases are increasing day by day, even if the government allows us to start our kitchens, do you think people will put their life at stake to eat in dhabas?” asked Amit Kumar, owner of Golden Hut Dhaba in Kurukshetra.HUNDREDS LEFT JOBLESSThe eateries provided employment to hundreds of people, including waiters, cooks, security guards, sweepers and managers, all of whom have been rendered unemployed.A 25-year-old former cook at one of the reputed Dhabas in Karnal, pleading anonymity, said, “Soon after the lockdown, we were told to go home without any salary. My employer said they will call me back once the lockdown period is over. Now, I work as labourer in fields to feed my family.”Haryana Hotel and Restaurant Association president and owner of Karnal’s Noormahal and Jewels Hotels Colonel (retd) Manbeer Chaudhary said, “The businesses of thousands of restaurants, hotels and dhabas in the state have collapsed around our ears. The situation is so bleak that many people are planning to sell their properties.”‘NO HELPING HAND EXTENDED’Chaudhary alleged that neither the Centre nor the state had announced any relief for the battered industry. “Though a 25% waiver on fixed electricity charges was announced, it was not implemented.”“We have raised the matter before the CM repeatedly, but have not been offered any respite. The only silver lining is that the RBI has deferred payment of EMIs,” he said. The industry has demanded relaxation in GST, property tax and electricity bills for at least one year. Those in the hospitality industry have also demanded that they be allowed to serve food in eateries keeping social distancing measures in mind.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-months-on-once-brimming-eateries-along-the-nh-44-on-verge-of-closure/story-RP9wLEH4BQrnbDnQ9puh7H.html
29-05-2020||Dehradun||In biggest single-day jump, Uttarakhand reports 216 Covid-19 positive cases||In a biggest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases in Uttarakhand till now, 216 cases were reported from the state on Friday, taking the tally of total cases to 716. All fresh cases of people who tested positive had returned to the state from Maharashtra, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh, said health officials. In the last one week, the state has reported over 570 cases. The sudden spike in Covid-19 positive cases in Uttarakhand had started last Saturday (May 23), when the state reported 91 positive cases in a single day, which was the highest single-day jump till then. From May 23 onwards, positive cases started soaring with people increasingly returning to the state under the evacuation process started by the state government. On Thursday, with 31 Covid-19 positive cases, Uttarakhand had reached 500 mark.According to the health bulletin released by the state health department on Friday afternoon, of the fresh 216 positive cases, the maximum cases have been reported from Dehradun district (72), followed by Almora (21), Bageshwar (8), Tehri (8), Haridwar (5), US Nagar (5), Pauri (5), Uttarkashi (4), Rudraprayag (2) and Pithoragarh (1).So far Nainital district has now the overall highest positive cases (224) followed by 164 in Dehradun, 70 in Tehri Garhwal, 62 in US Nagar, 48 in Haridwar, 45 in Almora, 28 in Pauri, 21 in Pithoragarh, 16 in Bageshwar, 11 in Chamoli, 14 in Uttar Kashi, 8 in Champawat and 5 in Rudraprayag. Overall 102 people have recovered in the state so far, including 13 on Friday. The increasing number of cases has become a matter of concern for the health department in the state now. Given the sharp rise in cases, all chief medical officers in the state have been directed to ensure the installation of adequate number of ICU beds, ventilators, procurement of medicines and oxygen supply to tackle any extreme possible situation.Authorities in Uttarakhand are worried over spike in cases with the return of the migrants. According to government officials, over 2.59 lakh registrations for return to Uttarakhand had been made on the state website. Of these, the state government under its evacuation process has so far brought back over 1.78 lakh people through trains and buses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/in-biggest-single-day-jump-uttarakhand-reports-102-covid-19-positive-cases/story-VkkqdFmWluVMVBv13R7OjP.html
29-05-2020||City||Compensate HP farmers for loss due to rain, hailstorm: CPI M||Communist Party of India (Marxist) on Friday asked the Himachal Pradesh government to compensate farmers and orchardists who have suffered huge losses due to the recent heavy rainfall and hailstorm. CPI (M) leader Sanjay Chauhan said due to recent heavy rainfall and hailstorm, fruit crops especially apples and vegetables like peas, tomatoes, cauliflowers etc were damaged in Rohru, Jubbal, Kotgarh, Kotkhai, Theog, Chopal, Rampur, Kumarsain, Nankhari, and Tikkar in Shimla district, Ani and Nirmand in Kullu district, Karsog and Seraj in Mandi district and in some parts of Kinnaur district. “However, the state government has not provided any financial package or relief to farmers and orchardists,” he said, adding that the financial worries of growers have increased due to both Covid-19 and adverse weather conditions. “Even at a time of this crisis, the state government is not providing manure, seeds, pesticides and fungicides to growers. They have no choice but to buy expensive agricultural and horticultural material from the market,” he said.The CPI (M) also asked the state government to waive off loans of farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/compensate-hp-farmers-for-loss-due-to-rain-hailstorm-cpi-m/story-Ddt6bxFaShum0qk8iF2V7H.html
29-05-2020||City||No trade with China through Shipki La this year||The cross-border trade between India and China through Shipki La in Himachal Pradesh will not take place this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the standoff between troops of the two countries in eastern Sikkim and Ladakh.The annual trade between the two countries begins in June and ends in November. Traders, mostly from Lahaul-Spiti and Kinnaur districts of the state adjoining China, start registering themselves in May.“Not a single trader has come forward to get registered so far,” Kinnaur deputy commissioner Gopal Chand said on Friday.The Indo-China Trade Association has requested the industries department, which facilitates the trade through Shipki La, to defer the cross-border business. “We have requested the government to postpone the trade between the two countries till Covid-19 subsides and things become normal,” the president of the Indo-China Trade Association said.TRADITIONAL TRADEThe traditional trade between India and China has seen many ups and downs. Bilateral trade through Shipki La reopened in 1993 after it was shut due to the Indo-China war in 1962. Shipki La is a mountain pass that connects Kinnaur district to the Tibetan Autonomous Region in China. It’s a border post at 18,599 feet. It is through this pass that the turbulent Sutlej enters India from China-occupied Tibet.Till 1959 when Chinese troops entered Tibet, trade was carried out under the barter system. Indian and Tibetan traders frequented Shipki village in Chinese Tibetan Autonomous Region and Namgia village on the Indian side. But after China occupied Tibet in 1959, no trader from Tibet visited India for varied reasons.At present, 37 trade items are exported from India that include agricultural implements, copper products, clothes, cycles, coffee, tea, barley, rice, flour, dry fruits, vegetables, edible oil, tobacco, snuff, spices, shoes , kerosene, stationary, utensils, liquor, milk-processed products, canned food, cigarettes, herbs, palm oil hardware, flowers, readymade garments, handloom products, and carpets.Due to the countrywide lockdown to combat the coronavirus crisis, traders this time were unable to stock on items to export as they buy them from markets in Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi.TRADE SUFFERS SETBACKNearly 20 items are imported from China, including wool, raw silk, yak hair, China clay, borax, butter, common salt, horse, goat, sheep, readymade garments, shoes, quilts, blankets, carpets, and local herbal medicines.Trade suffered a setback when the Indian government banned the import and export of livestock that was a major component of trade in 2012 due to lack of quarantine facility for animals.Livestock comprised a major portion of cross-border trade. Traders imported chigu goats reared for wool and meat in China-controlled Tibet, while Chamurthi horses, known for their sturdiness, were popular among Indian traders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-trade-with-china-through-shipki-la-this-year/story-lSJRuWMlciZ97uvMiVkZPJ.html
29-05-2020||Pune||Pune’s Sassoon hospital helps pregnant woman reach Nanded||The eight-month pregnant woman who walked 25-km with her husband in search of a bus to Nanded has been provided with an ambulance by the medical social superintendent’s office of the Sassoon General hospital.“When I was roaming around, looking for a bus, I was not expecting this kind of help. I cannot thank you enough for helping my family. I look forward to being in my home,” said Chanchal Sasane, 20, who commenced her journey to Nanded with her husband Amol Sasane, on Thursday afternoon.The woman and her husband were found at the Wagheshwar parking space in Wagholi looking for a bus to Nanded as they had left their relative’s home in Pune. The couple are daily wage labourers.Sasane was brought to Sassoon Hospital with the help of the police. She was provided with tests for pregnancy-related checks as well as a Covid-19 swab test. Her husband and she were provided with accommodation in the hospital for three nights and two days before an ambulance was arranged for them.“We are in a position to help such people. It was a matter of few phone calls and pushing people. It is upon the new generation to facilitate a change in this system,” said a young resident medical officer who did not wish to be named, but facilitated the communication between the patient and the social work department.Once the ambulance and the donor for the ambulance was arranged for, police permission was facilitated.While applying for police permission, the hospital provided for health checks for the driver of the ambulance as well as the husband of the woman.Additional commissioner of police (ACP) Ashok Morale and deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Bachchan Singh ensured timely approval of travel pass.“When the lockdown started, we had multiple such cases of people who were stuck in the hospital. Donors from welfare organisations provided support so that free ambulance services could be provided to these patients. It was a positive move by the hospital,” said a senior official at the hospital who also did not wish to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/sassoon-in-pune-helps-pregnant-woman-reach-nanded/story-Rfflv4TPh61OafAcP2JKVM.html
29-05-2020||Pune||NDA PoP to be subdued affair this May; parents will not get to witness cadets’ drills due to lockdown restrictions||The Passing out Parade (PoP) of the National Defence Academy (NDA) is the event every cadet looks forward to after completing his academic training at the tri-services institution. Dressed in immaculate uniforms, performing stringent drills at the Khetrapal ground and showcasing their various skills in front of their parents, friends, serving officers, veterans and others, is what cadets look forward to when they complete three years at the premier training institute.However, the Covid-19 (coronavirus) pandemic had disrupted all spheres of life, including training institutions across the country. The passing out parade on May 30 for the spring term, hence, will be held in a scaled down manner, according to a statement released by the National Defence Academy authorities. On Thursday, NDA authorities announced that due to the nationwide lockdown, parents of cadets will not be able to attend the parade at Khetrapal ground. “All matters pertaining to the parade are being looked after under the guidance of the commandant by the deputy commandant, chief instructor and his staff. The civilian faculty at NDA has also been briefed about the same,” the statement read further. The POP is conducted twice a year in May and NovemberDetailing how ‘End of Term’ activities have been modified, the NDA authorities added, “Training institutions have been forced to modify their traditional training curriculum which included only contact classes and NDA quickly adapted to new the normal and has been able to complete the spring term. But there are still lot of end of term activities which form a part of the passing out of a cadet from academy after three years of rigorous training. As the new normal (social distancing) takes precedence over all activities, the ‘End of Term’ events have been suitably modified as per the government and higher headquarters’ guidelines.”The tri-services training institute had suspended all large gatherings, guest lectures, expeditions and other group activities in view of the coronavirus outbreak in the second week of March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/nda-pop-to-be-subdued-affair-this-may-parents-will-not-get-to-witness-cadets-drills-due-to-lockdown-restrictions/story-pTTPAynS6H1DP7lD28AsqL.html
29-05-2020||Pune||Hsg societies asking for NOC from returnee residents will face action: Pune police||With interstate, air travel permitted and people stranded in other districts and states returning to their homes in Pune, members of cooperative housing societies are a worried lot.The Resident Welfare Association’s (RWAs) are demanding a No Objection Certificates (NOC) from residents who have returned after being stranded for two months due to the lockdown. However, some others are confused as to what protocol should be followed for allowing such residents into housing societies.The Pune police have further warned the RWAs stating that residential societies and gated communities who stop outstation residents from returning to their homes and demand a NOC will face action.According to the police, some residential societies have demanded that the returning residents get a NOC from the police in order to gain entry into the housing society. The society office bearers have been alert regarding Covid-19 infection rising in the city, and have been insisting for medical certificate and police NOC for entry.Bachchan Singh, deputy commissioner of police (Crime), Pune city said, “After the lockdown relaxations a lot of people have been travelling to Pune. We have come across some instances where societies or gated communities are asking for a No Objection-Certificate from Pune police in order to allow residents to enter the society. Please note that there is no requirement of NOC from Pune police and guidelines regarding quarantine should be followed.”Sanjeev Sharma, secretary of Viola Cooperative Society in Bibwewadi said that NOC was being demanded as a precautionary and safety measure, but with the police directives it will be withdrawn. “We request the health department to issue clear cut guidelines for quarantine as residents are still not clear about it,” he said.Daljeet Goraya, secretary, Ganga Kingston in Wanowrie said, “We have not received clear guidelines from the civic body regarding quarantine of residents, police NOC and other safety guidelines. There seems to be lack of coordination between the state health department and Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and the police. There is no mechanism in place by PMC and police to directly inform the society office bearers regarding quarantine rules and police restrictions. As far as police orders are concerned, we will abide by it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/hsg-societies-asking-for-noc-from-returnee-residents-will-face-action-pune-police/story-rHk2cqA5gAt6hWm77wO2xI.html
29-05-2020||Pune||Pune focuses on senior citizens in view of 56% deaths due to Covid-19||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to pay greater attention to senior citizens in containment zones as Covid-19 fatalities are highest among senior citizens.As of May 27, 273 people have died due to Covid-19 in Pune, with people above 60 accounting for 153 deaths.Pune Mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “Fatalities are highest among people above the age of 60 and in many cases, there have been late admissions as a result of which they are critical at the time of admission itself. The PMC has now decided to concentrate on this group to bring down the death ratio of senior citizens.”He said that instructions have been given to the medical staff to focus on the medical check-up of senior citizens in the containment zones. This would include a basic check-up, temperature, blood sugar levels, blood pressure and other illnesses. Some specialists from Indian Medical Association will assist in the check-up for chest pain and diabetes, he said.This would include a swab test for those with primary symptoms of Covid-19.PMC health officer Ramchandra Hankare said, “We are concentrating on containment zones mainly. As the senior citizens are turning critical after becoming positive, we have decided to keep focus on them and do their check-up in the containment zones.”Pune city has a total of 65 containment clusters which are located in high density areas. A number of slums have turned into containment zones in the city with the most critical ones located in Bhavani Peth and Kasba-Vishrambaug wards.As per PMC data, senior citizens account for almost 56 percent of the total deaths in the city due to Covid-19.A civic officer said that the PMC is gathering data on senior citizens from various sources such as senior citizens organisations, senior citizens’ cell with Pune police and door-to-door survey. The civic body is also planning to bring restrictions on the movement of the senior citizens in the containment and other zones in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-focuses-on-senior-citizens-in-view-of-56-deaths-due-to-covid-19/story-FbOk51IpDwxfzmzjY7lunI.html
29-05-2020||Bangalore||Bengaluru’s hotels likely to reopen in June||The hotel industry is one of the worst-hit industries due to lockdown, along with the tourism industry. Bengaluru’s hotel industry has incurred a loss of around Rs 1200 crore during the lockdown period however, the hotels here are likely to open in June if the State government issues guidelines for the resumption of their services. Speaking to ANI, PC Rao, President, Bangalore Hotelier’s Association said, “It’s not only the loss of business, but we have lost the customer base as well. We don’t expect any good future for the next six months. There will be a slow down in the business even after opening.”“We have requested our CM to give first preference to the hotels. We are going to restart our business in June if granted permission. Around 10 per cent of the hotels cannot open at all. They are in the stage of merging or closing down position. Few hotels may open after five or six months,” he added. He continued saying that many hotels are for sale but there are no buyers. There are around 21,000 restaurants in Bengaluru, 3500 hotels with rooms and restaurant which has an average turnover of Rs 20 crores per day, Rao informed.“We expect losses of around Rs 1200 crores in these two months. We are giving special online training to all the hoteliers and to our managers particularly to deal with the Covid-19 situation, including how to deal with the guests, employees, how to start the hotel services. Each and every manager has already been trained and we are still continuing it. We will conduct face to face meeting as well and brief the managers,” said Rao. (The story has been published from a wire feed without any modifications to the text, only the headline has been changed.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/bengaluru-s-hotels-likely-to-reopen-in-june/story-hQfwEA2cFvcyElFfL7LI9M.html
29-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi government organises awareness camp on desert locust attack||Following directions from Delhi Development Minister Gopal Rai, authorities on Friday organised a campaign to create awareness among farmers to prevent a probable attack of desert locusts in the national capital.Officials said the agriculture unit of the Development Department organised a training-cum-demonstration camp in Daryapur village in North Delhi in coordination with the officers of Krishi Vigyan Kendra.The Delhi government had on Thursday asked authorities concerned to spray insecticides and pesticides on crops and vegetation to prevent a probable desert locust attack, with Rai saying an awareness campaign would be run over the issue.Joint Director, Agriculture Department, A P Saini in the advisory issued on Wednesday asked the authorities to organise awareness programmes for public and farmers to prevent the attack of locusts in the national capital.“As the swarm of locusts flies in daytime, and rests during the night, it should not be allowed to rest at night,” the advisory read.It asked the authorities to carry out spraying of pesticides chlorpyrifos and malathion.Also, Delhi’s forest department is considering covering the saplings in its nurseries with polythene to protect them against the desert locust attack.“It is not possible to cover the trees. We will at least cover the saplings in the nurseries,” Principal Chief Conservator of Forests Ishwar Singh said.“Covering plants with polythene can also counter-productive during this heat. So, we will do this only when we know for sure that the swarm of locusts is headed towards Delhi,” the official said.Singh said in a city like Delhi, spraying of chemicals can be detrimental for environment.“If we spray the vegetation, trees and plants with chemical in anticipation of a locust attack, we should also consider how dangerous it will be for the environment,” he said.There are 14 lakh saplings in 14 government nurseries across Delhi, Singh said.India is battling the worst desert locust outbreak. The crop-destroying swarms first attacked Rajasthan and have now spread to Punjab, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh.According to experts, broadly four species of locusts are found in India -- desert locust, migratory locust, Bombay locust and tree locust.The desert locust is considered the most destructive. It multiplies very rapidly and is capable of covering 150 kilometers in a day.This insect, a type of a grasshopper, can eat more than its body weight. A one square kilometer of locust swarm containing around 40 million locusts can in a day eat as much food as 35,000 people.Experts blame the growing menace of desert locusts on climate change. They say breeding of locusts is directly related to soil moisture and food availability.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-government-organises-awareness-camp-on-desert-locust-attack/story-XR66RvDx8gmL1M58VWcM6O.html
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||Two families allege mismanagement of Covid-19 patients in J&K||Two families in a letter to the Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor alleged mismanagement of patients in the Union Territory and demanded that action be taken against the doctors concerned.Both quarantined patients are residents of Baramulla, they are in their 20s and had been studying in a Delhi College.In a letter to L-G Girish Chandra Murmu, the patients’ families wrote, “On May 16, my cousin arrived in Jammu from Delhi. His samples were taken at the railway station after which he was allowed to go home. On the same day, he was quarantined at Welkin School in Sopore with eleven others.” “On May 23, he was brought to Baramulla and another sample was collected. He was later sent back to Sopore quarantine centre. On May 25, the Jammu sample came out negative. But on Wednesday, he received a call from the district administration asking him to reach Degree College, Baramulla, with all family members, relatives, and friends whom he had met as his test had come out positive,” the letter, which has been circulating on social media, reads.“We fail to understand how his results differed in a couple of days. There is utter chaos and confusion,” said one of the patients’ relatives, who wrote to the L-G.‘POOR FACILITIES’He also complained about poor facilities at the quarantine centre. “They were kept in two rooms. Six persons in each room,” he said, adding, “We demand action against such doctors and administration.” This is not for the first time that the administration has come under fire for mismanagement. Last month, too, a 70 year-old from Sopore was discharged, however, later his results came out to be positive.On Thursday, six persons from Pulwama, who had tested positive were allowed to go home before their results were out. The government has ordered a probe into the matter. “The government must take strict action against doctors who are not performing their jobs seriously putting people’s lives at risk,” said a person admitted in a quarantine centre at Baramulla.DOCTORS BLAME TECHNICAL ISSUES, INCUBATION PERIODA senior doctor at a government hospital in Jammu says the problem may be because of ‘overloading of tests’.Baramulla chief medical officer (CMO) Deeba Khan said, “Tests may come negative in the incubation period and later come out to be positive.” She added the problem may arise due to technical faults in the machinery as a huge number of tests are conducted on a daily basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-families-allege-mismanagement-of-covid-19-patients-in-j-k/story-LiAoV8zTjhpWuBUnMHerPI.html
29-05-2020||Jaipur||Two more Covid-19 deaths in Rajasthan||Rajasthan reported two more Covid-19 deaths on Friday, taking the virus death toll in the state to 182, the Health Department said. Over 90 new coronavirus cases were also reported in the state, taking the virus tally to 8,158. “One death each was reported from Jaipur and Jhunjhunu,” Additional Chief Secretary (Health), Rohit Kumar Singh, said.Of the new cases, 42 were reported in Jhalawar, 12 each in Jaipur and Nagaur, six in Churu, five each in Dholpur and Udaipur, two cases each in Ajmer, Alwar, Bharatpur, Bikaner and one in Kota.  There are 3,121 active cases of the pathogen in the state and 4,289 people have been discharged, they said.  Jaipur has recorded the maximum of 86 deaths and 1,921 cases in the state, followed by 17 deaths and 1,375 cases in Jodhpur.Of the total cases, 2,221 are migrants who had returned to Rajasthan from other states, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/two-more-covid-19-deaths-in-rajasthan/story-brG0CnIbw2v64NjV2w6HJK.html
29-05-2020||Pune||2,211 Maharashtra police personnel found Covid-19 positive; 25 dead||At least 2,211 police personnel in Maharashtra have tested coronavirus positive so far, of whom 25 have lost their lives due to the infection, an official said on Friday.Of the total number of police personnel who succumbed to the infection, 16 are from Mumbai. Three others are from Nashik rural, two from Pune and one each from Solapur city, Solapur rural, Thane and the Mumbai ATS, the official said.As many as 249 of these COVID-19 patients are police officers, while 1,962 others are constabulary-rank personnel, he said, adding that they are undergoing treatment at various hospitals Till now, 970 of them have recovered, the official added.“At least 116 personnel were found infected in the last 24 hours. The number of over a hundred police personnel testing coronavirus positive everyday has remained constant throughout this week,” he said.There was no fresh incident of assault on the police staff or medical professionals engaged in the COVID-19 services, he said.At least 1,18,488 offences have been registered across the state under IPC section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) for the alleged violation of the lockdown order, in which 23,511 people have been arrested, the official said.Police have seized 76,076 vehicles for plying on the roads during the lockdown, the official said, adding that fine of Rs 5.79 crore has been collected for various offences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/2-211-maharashtra-police-personnel-found-covid-19-positive-25-dead/story-xNYw2wS6ER26SRsSc2EOtO.html
29-05-2020||Mumbai||2 more Mumbai Police personnel succumb to Covid-19, forces’ toll rises to 25 in Maharashtra||Two constables of Mumbai Police died due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), taking the death toll in the force’s city unit to 16 and 25 across Maharashtra, officials said on Friday.The two deaths were reported from Dahisar and Bandra police stations of the state capital of Maharashtra. Incidentally, one of the Mumbai Police personnel died after being discharged from the hospital. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageVinayak Deshmukh, Maharashtra’s assistant inspector general (law and order) and Pranaya Ashok, Mumbai Police spokesperson, confirmed the fatalities.Dilip Mohite, a 53-year-old head constable posted at the Dahisar police station in Dahisar (East), died on May 26. He was admitted to the JJ hospital but he was never tested for Covid-19.“Mohite had gone on leave 10 days before his death. He was taking treatment. He then suffered from breathing issues and around a week ago was admitted to JJ Hospital where he died due to breathing problems on May 26,” Hanif Mujawar, senior police inspector of Dahisar police station, said. “After his death, his swabs were taken and on May 27 his reports came positive for Covid-19,” Mujawar added.Mohite is survived by his wife, two daughters and a son. He lived in the police colony in Jogeshwari. It’s not clear if his family members have also contracted the respiratory disease. Officials said Deepak Hate, a head constable, also died after he contracted the coronavirus disease.Hate was being treated for Covid-19 at a hospital in Worli for the past 10 days and died on Thursday after being discharged. The 53-year-old was asymptomatic. Pravin Padwal, the additional commissioner of police (west region), confirmed his death.Till Friday morning, 2,211 police personnel have been infected by Sars-Cov-2, the virus which causes Covid-19, 970 have recovered and 1,216 are being treated. A majority or 1,962 of the 2,211 patients are constables and the remaining 249 are officers, said Deshmukh. So far, 25 personnel of Maharashtra police have died due to Covid-19 and 16 were from Mumbai Police, three from Nashik rural, two from Pune and one each from Solapur city, Solapur rural, Thane and Mumbai ATS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2-more-mumbai-police-personnel-succumb-to-covid-19-forces-toll-rises-to-25-in-maharashtra/story-Zcb839UZurrNdF8zTmv6oO.html
29-05-2020||Jaipur||Is Thar, the new home of Indian leopard||Leopards are now looking for new habitats, places where they were never seen before, this search for new territory was highlighted by researchers from Udaipur and Jodhpur in their study.Satish Sharma, a renowned environmental scientist and retired Assistant Conservator of Forests of Udaipur; Shravan Singh Rathore, Medical Officer of Machia Biological Park, Jodhpur; and Vijay Koli, Assistant Professor and Environmentalist of Mohanlal Sukhadia University, The National Academy of Sciences, in their research paper published in India, said that leopards (Panthera pardus, or tendua in Hindi) usually lives near evergreen forests and residential areas. However, setting a new normal, these big cats have now started moving towards the Thar Desert over the last decade where it never had a presence earlier.The paper, titled “Leopard expansion and movement towards the Thar Desert of Rajasthan”, states that the leopard -- a large cat specie which is mainly found on the edges of deciduous, evergreen, shrubby forest and human habitation, but whose presence was still absent in the arid regions of Rajasthan (Thar desert) and Gujarat (Kutch region) and high Himalayan regions is changing.According to Koli, “The presence of this species was recorded from five districts of Rajasthan which are found in the extension range of Thar Desert.”He said that this species was found in different types of habitats in Jodhpur, Jaisalmer, Churu, Barmer and Bikaner districts in places like university campuses, factory campuses, near fields, surrounded by wells, bush extension areas and human habitat areas. The most amazing fact that all the identified leopards were male, he said further.Koli said that his research based on 14 incidents reported in the last 10 years in five districts, found the presence of these leopards in the area stretching from 55.4 km to 413.4 km from district borders in the Thar Desert. In most of these cases, these male leopards were caught by the forest department and then released into their designated boundary area.Environmental scientist Satish Sharma says that leopards generally maintain their territory. They do not allow the second panther to enter the territory. Therefore, it is difficult for all male panthers to live in a fixed boundary area due to increasing number of leopards in a fixed boundary area or simultaneously increasing number of male leopards. Powerful males establish their limits, but weak or defeated males have to migrate and move to another place. So when the number of leopards increase in a particular region, the new males move to other areas in search of their independent territory. Such cases have also been seen in Ranthambore where Tigers moved to other areas as its numbers increased, he added.According to Sharma, another reason is the increase in irrigation facilities, farming and plantation activities in the Thar Desert due to the presence of Indira Gandhi Canal. All these actions have increased the amount of vegetation cover in Thar desert. Also, there is availability of water throughout the year. All these conditions provide a favourable environment for the leopard’s presence.The third reason is the increase in domesticated animals and wildlife in the Thar Desert, which leopards can feed on throughout the year, he added.Researcher Shravan Singh Rathore, Medical Officer of Machia Biologic Park, Jodhpur, says that in the present research, it has been found that at present only male leopards are entering the Thar Desert. If female leopard also enters here in future, then these species can establish its presence in the Thar desert permanently. In addition, there is a possibility that in the future, cases of human-leopard conflict may increase in these areas. (The story has been published from a wire feed without any modifications to the text, only the headline has been changed.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/is-thar-the-new-home-of-indian-leopard/story-D3Wiayj6H2HdljMiuT6y9M.html
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||Thundershowers bring respite from heat wave in UT, Malwa region; temperature dips across Punjab||Punjab, which had been in the grips of an intense heat wave, received some respite on Friday with Malwa region and Chandigarh receiving thundershowers on Friday morning, causing the temperature to drop across the state. Heavy showers in Patiala on Thursday evening brought the temperature down to 29°C from a scorching 43°C. Moderate cool winds and heavy showers brought down the day temperature in Bathinda, which had recorded a record high of 47.5°C on Wednesday, the highest in the last two decades. It had drizzled in Bathinda, Faridkot and Moga on Thursday.Ludhiana experienced strong winds and a drizzle on Friday. Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) head of the department of climate change and agricultural meteorology Dr Prabhjyot Kaur said Ludhiana and surrounding areas will witness light to moderate rainfall coupled with high-velocity winds on Saturday and Sunday. The temperature dipped in Jalandhar and Amritsar and the weather stayed cloudy on Friday.The Jalandhar meteorological department recorded a maximum temperature of 33°C on Friday morning, with strong gusts of winds blowing through the district.Officials said the temperature was likely to go up to 39°C by the evening. The met department also predicted thunderstorm and light rainfall over the next 24 hours. The minimum temperature was 22°C. AMRITSAR RECORDS 8°C DIP IN TEMPERATURERecording a dip of 8°C, the maximum temperature in Amritsar dropped to 36°C on Friday. The minimum temperature was 22°C.The meteorological department has also predicted rain and partially cloudy skies on Friday evening.Spells of rains and thunderstorm are expected to beat the heat in Amritsar till June 2, after which the temperature in the region will soar again.MORE RAINFALL ON THE CARDS FOR CHANDIGARH RESIDENTSWith 5mm of rain recorded between 8:30am and 11:30am in Chandigarh, temperature fell from 29.6°C at 8:30 am to 26.2°C at 11:30 am in Chandigarh. The wind was blowing at 50km/h.As per the India Meteorological Department, it is likely to continue to rain on Saturday.GUSTY WINDS BRING DEVASTATIONThe showers proved to be a boon for farmers who had just started preparing their fields for sowing paddy.However, the gusty winds in Patiala and surrounding areas also left a trail of devastation. Trees were uprooted, electricity poles felled and billboards were downed.Surinder Singh, a farmer from Baran village, said the rain will help the soil regain its humidity, which is good for paddy transplant.Inundated roads in certain parts of Patiala made commuting an uphill task for motorists. Many commuters had to wade through waterlogged roads and streets in the district.COMMUTERS BLINDED BY DUST IN LUDHIANA The high-velocity winds in Ludhiana led to scattering of dust accumulated at construction sites. Commuters, especially those travelling on two wheelers, found it tough to cross the Ferozepur Road where the flyover project is underway.The dust was emerging the constructing site was blinding the commutes. Many travellers were seeing stopping their vehicles or taking the slip road to avoid dust.Many pedestrians were seen covering their faces to protect themselves from dust.Gurmeet Singh Sondhi, a banker, said that water should be sprinkled alongside the construction site to safeguard commuters.Pooja, a resident of Sham Nagar, said dust had also entered people’s homes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/thundershowers-bring-respite-from-heat-wave-in-ut-malwa-region-temperature-dips-across-punjab/story-fCDGYvuNRWe4uV1puD9ilK.html
29-05-2020||Bangalore||Former PM Deve Gowda mourns Rajya Sabha member Veerendra Kumar’s death||Former prime minister H D Deve Gowda mourned the demise of Rajya Sabha member and Managing Director of leading Malayalam daily Mathrubhumi M P Veerendra Kumar, hailing him as a great journalist and writer. In his condolence message, the JDS Supremo said, “My deep regrets for the sad demise of Shri M P Veerendra Kumar, Former Union Minister and a close friend and comrade of mine since decades.” “I have personally lost a good friend of mine and it is indeed a loss to our Janata Parivar family for which he worked for many decades,” he said. Remembering Kumar as a politician of principles and a dedicated student of socialism, Gowda said he was at the forefront for the cause of welfare of the workers. He said as a journalist, Kumar was the man of inspiration and source for ‘Mathrubhoomi’ publication. Gowda also recalled his contribution as a trade union leader who led many pro-people and pro-farmer agitations. Veerandra Kumar, who was a member of PTIs Board of Directors, died late Thursday at a private hospital in Kozhikode in Kerala following cardiac arrest. Kumar, a Rajya Sabha MP from Kerala and a former union minister, was 84.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/former-pm-deve-gowda-mourns-veerendra-kumar-s-death/story-LfUMi7YNjjCDpFQ2lG5w9M.html
29-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s Covid-19 death toll jumps to 82 in last 24 hours||Delhi’s Covid-19 death tally has jumped by 82 in the last 24 hours, due to inclusion of 69 deaths that were reported late, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said on Saturday.He said 13 deaths occurred on Friday while the remaining 69 took place in the last 34 days and were reported late.The total deaths due to COVID-19 in Delhi has mounted to 398 so far, Health Minister Satyendra Jain said.Sisodia said there was no need to panic since Delhi’s rate of recovery from the virus infection was around 50 per cent.He also said that people need not visit hospitals unless there are symptoms of virus infection, and added 80-90 per cent recovery was registered in cases where patients were home quarantined.Jain said out of 69 late reported deaths, 52 took place at Safdarjung Hospital.Fresh 1,106 coronavirus cases have been reported, taking total tally in Delhi to over 17,000, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-covid-19-death-toll-jumps-to-82-in-last-34-hours/story-T1ZYv8feHeCWoFnUuMUTEK.html
29-05-2020||Ranchi||3 Maoists killed in gun battle in Jharkhand||Three Maoist guerrillas have been killed in a gun battle with security forces in Jharkhand’s West Singhbhum district on Thursday, police said.According to police, the gun battle took place between security forces and Maoists at Kentai jungle situated under Taibo police station of West Singhbhum district. In the gun battle three Maoists including area commander of banned Maoist group, People’s Liberation Front of India (PLFI), were killed.One injured Maoist has been arrested who has been admitted in local hospital for treatment.Police recovered AK 47 and other weapons from the slain Maoists.A search team of state police and CRPF were sent in the jungle. Maoists started firing on security forces which retaliated in which three Maoists were killed.Maoists are active in 18 of the 24 districts of the state.(The story has been published from a wire feed without any modifications to the text, only the headline has been changed.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/3-maoists-killed-in-gun-battle-in-jharkhand/story-VS7Gv1FgbLSlpzWATLlzSO.html
29-05-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand govt to airlift 60 migrant workers from Leh today||The Jharkhand government will airlift 60 stranded migrant workers from Batalik in Leh on Friday, officials from the Chief Minister’s office said. These migrant labourers were working on a Border Road Organisation (BRO) project in the area.According to the officials, the workers will be airlifted by a SpiceJet flight departing at noon today from Leh.The migrant workers will arrive in Delhi at around 2 pm and will be flown out by an Indigo flight departing Delhi at 6 pm and reaching Ranchi 8 pm, the officials said. Upon arrival in Ranchi, the workers are most likely to be received by Chief Minister Hemant Soren at the airport.Concerned officials of Ladakh administration and the BRO are actively supporting the effort and all 60 migrant workers have been checked, thermal screened and transported by BRO to Leh and are in a transit camp.The Jharkhand Chief Secretary had, on May 12, written a letter to the Union Home Secretary seeking permission to allow the State government to airlift stranded workers of Jharkhand from Andamans, Ladakh and the North-eastern states at its own expense.Chief Minister Hemant Soren had also personally written to Union Home Minister Amit Shah over the issue. However, officials said that no response was received from the Central government.Soren has said that two flights are being operationalised to get back around 320 workers from Andamans soon as well.Migrant workers had May 10 reached out to the Chief Minister on Twitter seeking assistance for their return, following which Soren had urged Ladakh administration to provide assistance.After the resumption of commercial air operations, Soren on May 26 personally entrusted a small team to work out all operational possibilities to ensure the safe return of 60 migrants from Dumka district stuck in Gorgodoh Village, Batalik in Kargil district, Leh.Officials said that around 3.5 to 4 lakh of the approximate 7.5 lakh registered migrant workers have already returned to the state and further efforts are being made to ensure that no one is left behind.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-govt-to-airlift-60-migrant-workers-from-leh-today/story-hkrb1oRViltm08UeyuA0aI.html
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab-origin GOP lawyer fights California governor on stay-at-home orders||Long before Harmeet Dhillon became the leader of the legal fight against California’s stay-at-home order, she was a new elementary school student in North Carolina uncomfortable because she didn’t know the Christian prayer her classmates recited every morning.She told her mother, who had studied the Constitution for her citizenship test after the Sikh family emigrated to the United States from India. Her mother spoke to the principal about the legality of having public school students reciting a prayer.AROUND A DOZEN LAWSUITS FILED The school changed its policy, Dhillon said. That moment was her initial lesson in the First Amendment that four decades later would be one of the underpinnings for more than a dozen lawsuits she helped to file over the coronavirus-induced order in California that closed businesses, churches and beaches, restricted people’s movements and produced record high unemployment.AGAINST ‘GOVERNMENT OVERREACH’During the Trump presidency, Dhillon, 51, has emerged as one of California’s most prominent Republican voices, appearing regularly on Fox News and suing the state’s Democratic leaders to block what she believes to be government overreach. She is one of California’s two elected members of the Republican National Committee, and she’s a co-chair of ‘Women for Trump’ that is part of the president’s re-election campaign.While Democratic governor Gavin Newsom has started relaxing restrictions on his stay-at-home mandate that took effect March 19, Dhillon has no plans to stop filing lawsuits.“Until we have some guardrails around this governor, or future governors, and their behavior and their ability to violate our civil rights, we are not going to stop,” she said in a recent interview. “It’s unacceptable.”Dhillon has brought cases on behalf of small business owners, beachgoers, hairstylists and churches. Most say their free speech and other rights were unnecessarily trampled by Newsom’s order. She has also filed lawsuits against the Democratic governors of New Jersey and Virginia over their restrictions on religious services.VICTORY IN COURT ELUSIVE Dhillon so far has yet to get a victory in court, however. Last week, the 9th US circuit court of appeals upheld Newsom’s ban on in-person religious gatherings. In another case, a judge denied Dhillon and other lawyers’ requests to block Newsom from closing Orange County beaches.But in both cases, Newsom ultimately relented — beaches reopened after restrictions were imposed by local governments, and religious services now are allowed if houses of worship follow state guidelines.Dhillon’s most recent virus-related lawsuit was filed on behalf of the California Republican Party and the Republican National Committee to block Newsom’s executive order that all registered voters in the state be mailed a ballot for the November election as a safeguard against the virus. She said the governor overstepped his bounds, and it’s up to the legislature to determine how elections are conducted.California Secretary of State Alex Padilla, a Democrat, called the lawsuit “another part of Trump’s political smear campaign against vote-by-mail.” The president says, without evidence, that mail-in voting will lead to fraud.Newsom’s office and political advisors did not directly address Dhillon’s lawsuits. But spokesman Nathan Click said Newsom :moved swiftly to protect human life” and that California has flattened the virus curve and helped vulnerable residents stay safe.“Protecting health and well-being of all Californians will continue to be what drives his actions — not politics,” Click said in a statement.TWO DECADE LAW CAREER Dhillon has practiced law in California for two decades. But she only recently emerged as a leader of the political right’s legal fights.After moving to California in 2000, she was involved at the grassroots level in San Francisco Republican politics before twice unsuccessfully running for the state Legislature in one of the country’s most liberal cities. She chaired the city’s Republican Party before winning election as vice chair of the state GOP in 2013.She has won national attention from conservative media for her work.Laura Ingraham, the Fox News host and a fellow Dartmouth College alumnus who graduated a few years before Dhillon, has praised her “great work” on the lawsuits. Dhillon counts Dinesh DiSouza, another Dartmouth graduate and conservative provocateur, as a mentor.LAWSUITS NOT PARTISAN: DHILLONDhillon said her lawsuits are not partisan. She noted that she has teamed with political opposites in some of her lawsuits, notably Mark Geragos, the Los Angeles-based celebrity lawyer whose clients included Michael Jackson and Colin Kaepernick.“The governor’s policies and the policies of counties are falling more heavily on Democrats than Republicans because there are more Democrats than Republicans in the state,” Dhillon said.Most of the lawsuits were filed through the Center for American Liberty, a nonprofit Dhillon helped launch in 2018 to take on civil-liberties focused legal work, but some are through her private law firm based in the San Francisco Bay Area, the Dhillon Law Group. The nonprofit does not have to disclose its donors.Dhillon represented the California Republican Party in a successful challenge last year to a law aimed at requiring Trump to release his tax returns to be on the California ballot.Mike Madrid, a California Republican who is leading a national anti-Trump effort, said the state’s Republican Party is in such bad electoral shape that lawsuits are now its main strategy.“It may be fun and you may get a soundbite, but is it making a difference? No. In fact it’s reinforcing the bad image of the Republican Party,” he said of Dhillon’s recent lawsuits.Her conservative views were shaped by her parents, who emigrated from the Punjab region of India when Dhillon was a baby. When she was 16, she went to Dartmouth. Her viewpoints hardened as she joined the Dartmouth Review, the renowned conservative college newspaper at the famously liberal school.“I learned a lot about writing. I learned a lot about arguing. I learned a lot about standing up for what you believe regardless of what the majority thinks,” she said.A defining moment came in 1988, when three of Dhillon’s classmates on the paper were suspended following an altercation with a professor. The Review sued to get the students reinstated and eventually won.It marked a turning point for Dhillon, who studied classics and planned to become a doctor like her father. Instead, she became a lawyer, clerking in the US department of justice’s civil division and later on the fourth circuit court of appeals in Baltimore.Dhillon joined the board of the American Civil Liberties Union after the September 11, 2001, attacks to further her work on discrimination against Sikhs and South Asians. Her affiliation with an organisation many Republicans see as overtly pro-Democrat was an issue when she ran as party vice chair in 2013, but she won anyway.‘ONE OF THE MOST PROMINENT REPUBLICAN VOICES’Jim Brulte, then the chairman of the state party, said he encouraged Dhillon to become a more public face for the party and in 2016, to run for the Republican National Committee. He now considers her one of the most prominent Republican voices in California, behind only U.S. House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy and U.S. Rep. Devin Nunes.“She’s a great spokesperson. She’s highly intelligent, very articulate,” he said.Asked whether she thinks her political affiliation will color how people perceive her legal efforts, Dhillon said: “I don’t really care how people perceive it, honestly. There’s nobody else doing it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-origin-gop-lawyer-fights-california-governor-on-stay-at-home-orders/story-RlAcpbtPIZ2bpjeWl9TUgM.html
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||2-day spell of heavy rainfall brings down mercury in Himachal||The lower and middle reaches of the hill state received heavy rainfall and hail on Friday, bringing down the temperature. State meteorological department director Dr Manmohan Singh said the state, which has been receiving heavy rainfall for two consecutive days, will continue to witness hailstorms, rainfall, and thunderstorm till June 1 due to a fresh western disturbance.It has been predicted that the middle and higher hills will continue to witness stormy weather till June 3.Met officials said the maximum temperatures in the state had dropped by two to three degrees and were likely to drop further. The state meteorological department had issued a yellow warning for lower and middle hills of the state for May 29 and 30. The department had said thunderstorms, accompanied by rain and hail were likely to take place in isolated places of Shimla, Solan and Sirmaur on Friday. Shimla, the state’s capital, received 9.7mm rainfall and recorded a maximum temperature of 26.3°C. The maximum temperature in Shimla had earlier reached around 28 °C but witnessed a drop of two degrees during the last two days.Kufri received 32mm rain and recorded a maximum temperature of 17.9°C. Manali recorded a maximum temperature of 24.8°C. Dalhousie in district Chamba received 6mm rain. The maximum temperature in the district was 21.2°C. Dharamshala received 4mm rain and recorded a maximum temperature of 30.4°C.Solan received 15.0 mm rain and recorded a maximum temperature of 33°C while Bilaspur received 8.5 mm rain and recorded a maximum temperature of 34°C. The maximum temperatures in Hamirpur and Nahan in Sirmaur district were 33.8°C and 35°C, respectively.Kalpa in Kinnaur district recorded a maximum temperature of 21°C.With a minimum temperature of 6.8°C, Keylong in Lahaul-Spiti district was the coldest in the state while Una was the hottest with a maximum temperature of 41.7°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2-day-spell-of-heavy-rainfall-brings-down-mercury-in-himachal/story-R1U8K3mrI87zZZhPnecN5J.html
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||Patients coughing up ₹1,800-5,000 for PPE kits of health workers in Chandigarh tricity’s private hospitals||Treatment just got more expensive in the tricity’s private hospitals with patients being asked to cough up anything between Rs 1,800 to Rs 5,000 for Personal Protective Equipment (PPE kits) and Rs 50 for sanitisers used – not by them – but by health workers as protection against Covid-19, it has been learnt.Hospitals say they are passing off costs of protection kits to patients to balance increasing expenses due to Covid-19 safety protocols put in place by health authorities.A woman treated at Alchemist hospital in Panchkula who did not want her name revealed said she was shocked to find she had been billed Rs 18,000 for nine PPE kits. “I delivered a baby at the hospital and was shocked to find Rs 18,000 added to the bill for nine PPE kits, of which seven were used by health workers during my surgery (Rs 1,800 each for six kits and Rs 2,400 for one kit) and two for the baby (Rs 2,400 per kit),” she says.When she questioned the hospital she was told all patients were being charged for the safety kits.When asked to comment on the matter, a hospital spokesperson also not wishing to be named, said, “We are following Haryana health department guidelines and are charging as per the guidelines and not charging unnecessarily.”A Chandigarh resident who went to Chaitanya Hospital in the city for some tests was surprised when he was charged Rs 50 for a sanitiser. Confirming the costs, Dr Neeraj Kumar, director of the hospital, said Rs 4,000 to Rs 5,000 was also being charged for PPE kits.“We have to take precautions because of Covid-19. Hygiene has to be maintained, OPD area is cleaned every two hours and more house staff is employed. Fewer patients are coming in while hospital expenses have increased,” Dr Kumar said.‘10% extra fee can be charged’The Indian Medical Association (IMA), Dr Kumar added, had said that 10% extra fee could be charged from patients in outpatient departments as sanitation expenses had increased. The cost of the PPE also depended on the kind of surgery being performed. “On an average, Rs 5,000 is charged for a PPE kit from patients,” he said.When contacted, however, Dr Rajesh Dhir, president, IMA, Chandigarh, said, “I am not aware of any such percentage being allowed by IMA. However, I believe that the private hospitals should maintain a balance while charging the amount so that it does not pinch the pocket of the customer but at the same time doctors too don’t feel demotivated as it has become too expensive to run health services during the pandemic.”All hospitals were passing on costs of safety measures to patients. “My elder brother is undergoing dialysis from one private hospital in Mohali and we went to Fortis Hospital for some medical intervention, where they charged Rs 4,200 for PPE,” said Mohit Sharma from Chandigarh.When asked to respond, Ajey Maharaj, head, corprorate communications, Fortis Healthcare, said costs of safety measures had driven up expenses in hospitals. Confirming that patients were billed for PPE, he said, “as per the government directive, hospital medical staff in direct contact of the patients are advised to use good quality PPE kits and masks. Where PPE is required for treatment, cost of actual PPE being used is charged. In ICUs or wards with multiple patients, the total cost of PPEs is divided by the number of patients in the ward. Also, to ensure minimal impact on patient, PPE is being charged at much lower rates than the MRP.”‘Overcharging, irrational usage’Meanwhile, when contacted, Panchkula civil surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur said an order had been issued about overcharging for PPE kits in certain hospitals. It read that irrational usage and overcharging for PPE kits had been observed in certain private hospitals, adding unnecessary burden to the patients. “A serious note of this is being taken and all private hospitals are directed to use PPEs as per guidelines already issued. Cost of these if passed on to the patient should be justified and not unnecessarily included in the bill,” she added.The order also reads that any such complaints by the patients will be viewed seriously and appropriate action would be taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/patients-coughing-up-1-800-5-000-for-ppe-kits-of-health-workers-in-chandigarh-tricity-s-private-hospitals/story-S9cHQd2TuqbwMiV7GLaaoK.html
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||13 more test positive for Covid-19 in Himachal, tally touches 294||Thirteen more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh on Friday, taking the state’s tally to 294.Eight cases were reported from Hamirpur and five from Kangra. “Active cases in the state are 204, as eight people have been cured,” said special secretary (health) Nipun Jindal.Hamirpur deputy commissioner Harikesh Meena said among the five patients from the district is a 34-year-old man, who had returned from Delhi; a 32-year-old woman from Mumbai; a husband-wife duo aged 31 and 28, who had travelled back from Ahmadabad, and a 57-year-old man, who had returned from Kota in Rajasthan.All of them were under institutional quarantine. Their primary contacts are being traced.Three more people tested positive for the virus in the evening, he said. The five patients from Kangra include three men and two women.“One of the patients, a 75-year-old man, who had returned from Delhi four days ago, suffers from renal failure. He had earlier been placed under home quarantine but now has been shifted to Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College, Nerchowk, Mandi,” deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said.A 60-year-old woman patient was also under home quarantine.The other three patients were under institutional quarantine.Himachal has witnessed the second wave of cases since May 4 with 251 people testing positive for the virus. As many as 106 cases have been reported in the last six days.So far, 291 cases have been reported in the state, including five fatalities. Three men and two women are among the dead.Hamirpur is the worst-hit district with 101 cases followed by Kangra with 74 cases. A total of 32 cases have been reported in Una, 23 in Solan, 20 in Chamba, 18 in Bilaspur, 12 in Mandi, nine in Shimla, four in Sirmaur, and one in Kullu. As many as 81 people have recovered so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/nine-test-positive-in-kangra-hamirpur-himachal-s-covid-19-tally-touches-290/story-xhGKM12dSx3Wj4rKrZGhBP.html
29-05-2020||Ranchi||11 more test Covid-19 positive in Jharkhand; cases rise to 469||Eleven more people tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the total number of coronavirus cases to 469 in the state, health officials said.Of the total cases, 300 were migrants who returned to the state recently, they said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThere are 253 active cases now, while 212 have recovered and discharged from hospitals. Four persons died since the outbreak of the pandemic on March 31.Altogether 5,343 travellers are under surveillance while 3,901 returnees completed observation of 28 days, officials said.While 98,547 people are now lodged in various quarantine centres, 2,58,188 people are quarantined at home.The recovery rate in Jharkhand is 45.20 per cent against the national average of 42.75 per cent, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/11-more-test-covid-19-positive-in-jharkhand-cases-rise-to-469/story-DZlnPl4AzOWg2y4h8ICjMM.html
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||Revoke orders banning paddy cultivation on panchayat land: Haryana Congress||The Haryana Congress on Thursday demanded that the BJP-JJP government cancel the May 9 order prohibiting paddy cultivation on panchayat land in the state.Addressing a joint press conference, state Congress president Kumari Selja and All India Congress Committee (AICC) communication in-charge Randeep Singh Surjewala sought cancellation of orders to ban paddy cultivation on panchayat land. They also demanded an apology from chief minister ML Khattar for imposing a ban on paddy cultivation. The Congress leaders also sought withdrawal of orders to de-notify Dadupur Nalvi Canal and the restoration of the water channel. Referring to a recent set of guidelines issued by the state government following the May 9 order, Selja and Surjewala said the state government’s soft-worded guidelines that spoke of encouraging farmers to undertake crop diversification voluntarily showed that it was a damage control move to offset the backlash by farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/revoke-orders-banning-paddy-cultivation-on-panchayat-land-haryana-congress/story-f4SwAxDsCySMC9QTKn6WqM.html
29-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi-NCR to witness rain, thunderstorm for 2-3 days; temperature to drop 5 degrees Celsius||The changed wind direction is giving relief to Delhi from Friday morning. The national capital evening witnessed some relief from the rising mercury with light rains and dust and thunderstorm on Thursday.According to the weather office, the Safdarjung Observatory recorded a maximum of 40.3 degrees Celsius on Thursday, normal for the season, down by five notches from a day before.The Palam Observatory recorded the maximum temperature at 41.8 degrees Celsius om Thursday, down from 47.2 degrees Celsius on Wednesday.The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) had said in its weekly forecast that rain and thunderstorm will continue to lash Delhi and nearby areas in northern India thereby giving relief to people from scorching heat.According to IMD, a western disturbance has become active in the region which will cause wind to blow at a speed of 50-60 kilometre per hour on Friday and Saturday. The western disturbance will continue to have effect even after Saturday, the IMD said.It further said that the maximum temperature is expected to fall to 35 degrees Celsius. It will start increasing after June 2, and is expected to reach 41 degrees Celsius, the IMD said.“Heatwave abated from Delhi,” the India Meteorological Department said on Thursday.The dust accompanying the wind will lead to rise in pollution levels in Delhi and nearby areas, according to IMD. The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) reported on Thursday that the city’s air quality index (AQI) was at 188, which is considered satisfactory.An AQI upto 60 is considered safe, from 61-200 it’s satisfactory, between 201 and 300 is considered ‘poor’, 301-400 ‘very poor’ and 401-500 ‘severe’, while the AQI above 500 falls in the severe plus category.The national capital on May 23 witnessed maximum temperature at 46.2 degrees celsius - new highest for the season. The heatwave intensified between May 24 and 27 with the mercury making new records.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-ncr-to-witness-rain-thunderstorm-for-2-3-days-temperature-drops-5-degrees-celsius/story-fuL5Rz55JzRB8ZBdiwaEIK.html
29-05-2020||Business||India’s economy seen slowing rapidly in March quarter, with worse to come||Gross domestic product data out later on Friday is expected to show India’s economy grew at its slowest pace in at least two years in the March quarter as the coronavirus pandemic weakened already declining consumer demand and private investment.The median forecast from a Reuters poll of economists put annual economic growth at 2.1% in the March quarter, lower than 4.7% in the December quarter. Forecasts ranged between +4.5% and -1.5%.Prime Minister Narendra Modi has maintained the lockdown ordered on March 25 to curb the spread of Covid-19 in the world’s second most populous country, though many restrictions were eased for manufacturing, transport and other services from May 18.The full impact of the lockdown on manufacturing and services will become more apparent in the June quarter, with Goldman Sachs predicting a 45% contraction from a year ago.Economists expect the fiscal year that began in April will see the worst economic contraction in four decades.“Economic activity will face ongoing disruption over the next year as the country transitions to a post-COVID-19 world,” the rating agency S&P said on Thursday, cutting its 2020/21 forecast to a 5% contraction.Weather forecasts for normal monsoon rains are in Indian farmers’ favour at least, giving hope that the rural sector can help support the millions of migrant workers who returned to their villages from the cities when the lockdown began.Number of coronavirus affected people in India has crossed 158,000 with 4,531 deaths, with an average daily jump of 6,000 cases in the last one week.Unlike some advanced economies, India’s stimulus package has largely focussed on subsidised credit to small businesses and farmers, while direct fiscal stimulus was limited to around 1% of the GDP, economists said.The Reserve Bank of India cut policy rates by 40 basis points earlier this month, and has reduced its key repo rate by 115 basis points since February.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/business-news/india-s-economy-seen-slowing-rapidly-in-march-quarter-with-worse-to-come/story-bY9D5APSUy0Ed7013M0OPI.html
29-05-2020||Education||UP govt to sign MoUs with industrial associations today to create jobs for 9 lakh people||The Uttar Pradesh government will be inking several memorandums of understanding with various industrial organisations, including the Indian Industries Association, to provide for employment to over nine lakh migrant worker of the state, an official spokesperson said Thursday. The MoUs will be signed on Friday, he said, adding Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath is keen on providing employment to workers returning from different states.  The state government is working on the policy of ‘job for every hand’, he said, adding under this policy, the CM has appealed to investors to accelerate the production of indigenous goods in the state which will also help many people get employment.  Additional Chief Secretary Home Awanish Kumar Awasthi said at a press conference here that Adityanath has invited investors while emphasising on the production of indigenous goods. The CM said that with increasing production of indigenous goods in the state, employment opportunities will also increase and its benefit will be given to workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/up-govt-to-sign-mous-with-industrial-associations-today-to-create-jobs-for-9-lakh-people/story-aibmq8bbeCr8HqgAFihceJ.html
29-05-2020||Education||West Bengal students likely to attend classes on alternate days after schools reopen: Minister||Students of state-run schools in West Bengal are likely to attend classes on alternate days after they reopen, in order to observe social distancing norms.The schools will be asked to follow an “alternate model” and the department will ensure that classes take place adhering to social distancing norms, Education Minister Partha Chatterjee told reporters on Thursday.Asked to elaborate on the “alternate model”, he said details of it would be informed later.The alternate model envisages one set of students of a particular class will attend school on every alternate day, a source in the education department explained.To a question, Chatterjee said state-run schools are slated to reopen after June 30.Private educational institutes are free to follow this schedule or they may go by their own timetable, he said.However, the minister hinted that he expects private schools will follow the governments decision.“If a state-run school and a private school are situated in the same locality, the same yardstick should be applied to both, as students of the same locality will face similar situation,” Chatterjee said.He had announced on Wednesday that state-run schools will open after June 30 instead of June 10, as stated earlier, as many schools will be used as quarantine centres for people returning from outside the state and also due to the extensive damage caused to thousands of school buildings in cyclone Amphan.About communication problem faced by candidates who will appear for the remaining papers of the Higher Secondary Examinations, Chatterjee said the education department will arrange special buses for them.The remaining papers of the HS Examinations will be held on June 29, July 2 and 6.“We will also ask the West Bengal Council for Higher Secondary Education to keep examination centres in the neighbourhood area of a candidate, he said.Chatterjee said the results of class 10 state board examination (Madhyamik) will be published in the quickest possible time while that of the HS Examinations will be out within a month after exams for the pending papers are over.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/west-bengal-students-likely-to-attend-classes-on-alternate-days-after-schools-reopen-minister/story-krflfFf2NylR7WdeqhI8gL.html
29-05-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Chitli’s deafening silence||If you listen, you can hear it. The silence.An absence of sound has descended over the Chitli Qabar Chowk like a shroud upon the body of the dead. The air is alive with the twittering of birds though, but that only intensifies this strange quietude.This reporter experienced the area’s starkly new silence during the course of a recent stay lasting 24 hours in a multi-storey house, situated right there in the Chowk. It is the only four-way crossroad in this part of the historic Walled City.In the morning, the centre of the Chowk used to be taken over by fish manger Muhammed Parvez. His ramshackle cart was an unofficial meeting point for the local gentry (always men) to gather and gossip about weather, politics as well as who died and who was born in which galli or kucha the previous night.But this morning, the fish cart is nowhere to be seen.Long after the morning, and throughout the day, the Chowk would be like a pressure cooker crammed up with all varieties of tumultuous sounds—the cries of flower sellers, biryani sellers, balloon sellers, passers-by, rickshaw pullers, beggars, tourists, dogs and goats. There would be azaans streaming out of the loudspeakers from neighbourhood mosques at appointed hours.But now all is stilled, except for the azaans; the mosques themselves are locked with noticed slapped on their doors, instructing the faithful to “pray at home.”Indeed, this afternoon barely any soul is seen in the Chowk. One side-alley going up to Pahari Rajaan has its giant wooden doorway shut closed.Later in the day, some of the shops and stalls that are permitted to operate open up for brief business, and the Chowk is restored to some aural stirrings.By evening, a few minutes after 7pm, the official beginning of the corona-triggered 12-hour curfew, the streets empty out totally.And finally, the day has unfolded and it is 10pm. No familiar faces, seen here every night during the BC (Before Corona) era are around—Muhammed Shakeer with his ice-cream cart, Raj Malik with his gas-filled balloons, and Muhammed Junaid, who manned the Burra Biryani stall. There’s also no sign of Mehboob tea stall, a pavement establishment that served adrak chai the whole night long.Now a man in white kurta pyjama steps into this setting. He looks around the emptiness, and walks away, perhaps towards his home, leaving Chitli Qabar to its silence. A silence so profound that you feel you could caress it with your own hands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-chitli-s-deafening-silence/story-hsVUqFFKxTfWFlTjd8EaXI.html
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||Subsidies for solar plants in Chandigarh to be released in two weeks||As the last date for installation of solar plants in private residences has been extended to March 2021, all pending subsidies for the same will be released in two weeks, the Chandigarh Renewal Energy and Science and Technology Promotion Society (CREST) has announced.Giving details, CREST CEO Debendra Dalai said, “Under phase 2 of installation, which comprises all solar plants set up after May 2019, the subsidies were delayed due to the lockdown. There are 650 such cases out of which we have released subsidies of around 400 cases. I am currently approving around 50 cases a day so the remaining subsidies will be released within the next two weeks.”In 2016, the UT administration had made installation mandatory of rooftop solar power plants in new properties measuring 500 square yards and above and in group housing societies. As per Dalai, there are around 7,200 such residential areas in the city. About 3,000 of them are yet to apply for permissions for setting up the plant. “The date had to be extended to give some time to these people to apply for as well as to set up the plant,” Dalai added.The UT has also proposed a Renewable Energy Service Company (RESCO) model (which provides energy to the consumers from renewable energy sources, usually solar photovoltaics and wind power) for setting up power plants due to which installation costs would come down, Dalai added.For residents who had installed the plants, it has been a long wait for subsidies. CREST releases a subsidy of 40% for power plants with a capacity 3 kilowatt (kW).The president of the Sector 8 resident welfare association (RWA), Ranvinder Singh Gill said, “After spending over Rs 4 lakh on the solar project, it is disheartening to not receive the subsidy. During the Covid-19 epidemic the government should make it a priority to pay back what they owe us. “Sector Sector 33 resident, Brig KS Gill (retd), aged 98 years, added that it was unfortunate that super senior citizens like him were also made to wait for subsidies.The Federation of Sector Welfare Association Chandigarh, Sandeep Bhalla said, “We had held a meeting with CREST in January 2020 and were assured that around Rs 5 crore in funds had been received by CREST for this payment, so I hope we receive it soon.” Crest has set a target of producing 69 megawatt (MW) power in the city by 2022, while currently the city produces over 30 MW. Of this, about 12 MW is from residential areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/subsidies-for-solar-plants-in-chandigarh-to-be-released-in-two-weeks/story-djS3FBv4Dubyve1x1L8FnN.html
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||PU students’ body opposes proposed fee hike||Youth for Swaraj, a students’ organisation of Panjab University, has opposed the proposed fee hike for students taking admission in the varsity from the 2020-21 academic session.The PU syndicate in its upcoming meeting will take a call on the fee hike of 7.5 % in self-financed courses and 5% in all traditional courses for the new entrants.In a statement, the students’ body said with incomes of most families is taking a hit amid the Covid pandemic, such a steep fee hike will make it difficult for many families to afford education at PU.“Youth for Swaraj strongly opposes this move as it will make Panjab University inaccessible for many talented and meritorious students. Approximately 43% of all students at PU are in self-financed courses, with already high and unjust tuition fee ranging from ₹31,000 to 2.45 lakh. Any further increase in fees during this crisis is condemnable,” they said.The student party demanded that the University Syndicate reject this proposal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pu-students-body-opposes-proposed-fee-hike/story-D5Rdzf5QeSfDKrTeocNL5N.html
29-05-2020||City||Three flights cancelled at Chandigarh airport||Three flights were cancelled at the Chandigarh International Airport on Thursday. Only five flights operated to and from Delhi and Bengaluru, resulting in low footfall of passengers. Indigo Airlines cancelled its Mumbai flight, while Air India cancelled its Delhi and Dharamshala flights. As many as 477 passengers arrived and 293 departed from the airport. Indigo’s Delhi flight came in with 68 passengers and left with 97. Air India’s Delhi flight landed with 85 and departed with just nine. Another 125 passengers arrived on the Air Asia flight from Bengaluru that went back with 18 passengers. The Indigo flight from Bengaluru arrived with 124 passengers and had 40 people onboard on its return. Air Vistara’s flight from Delhi had 75 passengers, and left with 48.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-flights-cancelled-at-chandigarh-airport/story-zOQ8ukry34ljnnuB43wjCI.html
29-05-2020||City||Labourers are backbone of our economy: Balbir Sidhu||Punjab labour minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said that working toiling hard in various factories in the state are the backbone of the economy and the government would leave no stone unturned in ensuring their welfare.Distributing ration packets, containing 5-kg atta, 2-kg sugar and 1-kg dal, among around 2,000 workers and labourers, Sidhu said the government’s policies always aimed at providing better working conditions for workers and this initiative (of providing ration) was a small step to help them in the hour of need. Sidhu also exhorted the workers to strictly observe social distancing, wear masks, and use hand sanitisers and washing hands as often as possible, to stay safe from the coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/labourers-are-backbone-of-our-economy-balbir-sidhu/story-aOFkwkI8NSxIU5XfAlwaXK.html
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University issues guidelines for conducting exams in July||Panjab University has issued new guidelines for conducting examinations as the varsity plans to hold semester examinations in July.These standard operative procedures (SOPs) were issued by the examination branch of the university to the heads of departments (HoDs) and all affiliated colleges.According to the guidelines, staffers on examination duty have to download the Arogya Setu application. The maximum strength of examination centres will be 150 and duration of examinations will be two hours. Wearing of masks is mandatory for teachers, staff and students.The guidelines also mention that no candidate or staff from containment zones or red zones will be allowed in the examination centre. Moreover, any student or staffer having symptoms of Covid-19 or under quarantine will not be allowed into the centre. A distance of four to six feet between examinees has been made mandatory.Also, thermal screening of every entrant in the examination hall is mandatory. Examination halls will be sanitised before the exams commence. The guidelines allow the appointment of additional assistant superintendent to ensure the norms.Employees above 65-years-old, pregnant woman and physically challenged persons will not be put on examination duty, as per the guidelines.STUDENTS RAISE CONCERNSPanjab University Campus Students Council (PUCSC) president, Chetan Chaudhary said, “This just shows that education for Panjab University is just about examinations. They have formulated a very poor strategy and these guidelines lack clarity.”Nikhil Narmeta, president of the Panjab University National Students’ Union of India (NSUI) said, “If students from containment zones and red zones are not allowed in the examination centres, what is the alternative that will be provided to them?”PU’s controller of examinations, Parvinder Singh said, “PU authorities have taken cognizance of the unanticipated situation and notified SOPs for the conduct of semester examinations in July.”“If a student cannot appear in the examination as they reside in a red zone or containment zone, permission will be granted for special examination later. Safety and security is paramount for university authorities. A proper notice will be sent to all the colleges and departments in this regard,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-issues-guidelines-for-conducting-exams-in-july/story-jXGwXeldG9wLjR6ZMgWKlM.html
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||Impact of Covid-19 on mental health discussed during webinar at PU||Panjab University organised a webinar on the impact of Covid-19 on mental health, on Thursday. The webinar was jointly organised by PU’s centre for social work and the department of ancient Indian history, culture and archaeology, as a part of the joint webinar series related to the Covid-19 pandemic and was attended by faculty members from different departments, research scholars and students.PU vice-chancellor Raj Kumar spoke about how the present circumstances create anxiety and loneliness among people.Dr Rajaram, psychiatric social worker and international practitioner who has been teaching at NIMHANS (National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences) for over two decades, spoke on how the spread of Covid-19 and subsequent lockdowns have impacted the mental health of different sections of Indian society.He also addressed the concerns of participants during the webinar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/impact-of-covid-19-on-mental-health-discussed-during-webinar-at-pu/story-BczpFrwBKa17LgF3LgLG5N.html
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||Police wellness in focus during webinar at PU||Panjab University’s centre for police administration organised a one-day international webinar on police wellness during the Covid-19 pandemic, on Thursday.Students, faculty members and research scholars from various institutions, and security officials including Hemant Kumar (DIG), BSF, and Pawan Basatia (DCP), Delhi Police, participated in the webinar titled ‘Protecting the front-line: Prioritising police wellness”.Divya Sharma, professor, division of justice and law administration, Western Connecticut State University, USA, spoke on the significance of police wellness amid the acute physical, mental and emotional stressed experienced by them on a day-to-day basis amid the Covid-19 pandemic.“The aspect of police wellness has been relegated to a great extent because many people carry a negative perception about police and police personnel,” Sharma said.She spoke on addressing this problem in a more tangible manner. She added that police wellness can be achieved through institutional and social measures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/police-wellness-in-focus-during-webinar-at-pu/story-pkt9VAzsHDmC27rsrYDkJI.html
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||As Covid-19 restrictions go in Sectors 38 and 52, residents are cautious but happy to be ‘free’||De-sealing Sector 38 to prevent the spread of Covid-19 and lifting containment zone restrictions in Sector 52 on Wednesday and Thursday, respectively, have come as a relief for residents.Sumit Kumar, a 14-year-old boy, said he was thrilled to finally visit his best friend living close by in Sector 52, where one Covid-positive case was reported. For 28 days from May 1, locked in his house, Kumar and many more children like him were forbidden from playing outdoors as houses were sealed and movement restricted.Sector 38, from where three positive cases were reported, was sealed on April 30. All patients have recovered.“We have realised what freedom truly means now,” said Ramlal, Kumar’s father, thanking the police and Chandigarh administration officials with folded hands as barricades were removed from Sector 52.Police officials present in the area too said it was good that the residents would finally get some respite. Talking to the public, a police person who did not want to be named said: “Many people here complained about the inconveniences of living in a sealed area and now they are free. These steps were only taken for their safety.”Her employer was not very happy with the fact that she could not attend office, so Shweta Kumari, 22, was looking forward to joining work in a private firm. “I could not get out of because of the restrictions and am relieved to be able to get to work,” she said.Bihari Lal, 30, said his worries mounted as his savings depleted. “Now rejoining work at the confectionary store in Sector 44 will get things back on track. For people, the lockdown was lifted a month ago, for us, it opened today,” he said.For 37-year-old Manjot Singh, a driver and resident of Sector 38, it was traumatic to live in a sealed residential area. “First, it was the Covid-19 threat and then we were isolated and living in suspense, not knowing when the restrictions would be lifted. None of us will forget this phase in our lives.”Also living in Sector 38, Madhu Lata, a home maker, said getting fresh vegetables, milk and essential items was difficult. “Our children could not buy the books they needed. Getting medicines for my mother-in-law was an impossible task.”When it comes to other areas in the city, containment in Shastri Nagar will end on May 31. Only three areas, including Sector 30 B, Kachi Colony in Dhanas, Bapu Dham Colony will remain containment zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/as-covid-19-restrictions-go-in-sectors-38-and-52-residents-are-cautious-but-happy-to-be-free/story-HE26poApsqoxcD2JnTI1VO.html
29-05-2020||City||Man dies as scooter skids on Kalka-Zirakpur highway||A 56-year-old man died after his scooter slipped on the Kalka-Zirakpur Highway, near Peer Mazaar, on Wednesday night. The deceased was identified as Mahinder Pal Kukreja, resident of Gulmohar City, Dera Bassi. “We got a call late at night. When we reached the spot, we found a scooter on the road with its rider lying next to it with a head injury. We found a kite string on the spot, which could have caused him to lose his balance,” said a police official. The body was sent for autopsy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-dies-as-scooter-skids-on-kalka-zirakpur-highway/story-HKdsBeDDjptOgid1jzWmGL.html
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University syndicate to approve candidates for DSWs||The Panjab University will take a decision on the appointment of the new dean students’ welfare (DSW) and DSW (woman) of the university.The terms of current DSW Emanual Nahar and Neena Capalash, DSW (woman) will end on May 31.The syndicate is scheduled to meet on May 30, with at least 28 agendas to be tabled for discussion.Vice-chancellor Raj Kumar has recommended Devinder Singh from department of laws as DSW and Sukhbir Kaur from department of zoology as DSW (woman) for the posts.The decision of the syndicate will be taken up by the senate, which is the apex governing body of the university. According to the PU calendar, the senate may appoint the DSW for a certain period on the recommendation of the V-C, and the syndicate may determine the conditions for such terms. The calendar lays down the same procedure for appointment of DSW (woman). TOUGH FOR V-C TO GET NAMES APPROVEDHowever, as per sources, Devinder Singh may not garner support from majority of the syndicate members as he is close to the BJP Group. Majority of the syndicate members are from the opposition group.Goyal Alliance, which is seen to be pro-Congress, has 11 seats and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Group has only four seats in the syndicate.A syndicate member, on condition of anonymity said, “I think the members will not agree on the candidates recommended by the V-C. As the term of the DSW is going to end, an additional charge can be given to someone as till the new DSW is appointed.”CONTROVERSY OVER DSW LAST YEAROn May 28 last year, the V-C had given his disapproval when syndicate members recommended the extension for Nahar as PU’s DSW. Later, the V-C removed him as DSW after which the matter went to Punjab and Haryana high court. On September 18, the HC ordered a fresh senate meeting to take final call.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-syndicate-to-approve-candidates-for-dsws/story-9OfWZOewjPqlHVwgaojPDK.html
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||Jewellery, cash stolen from house in Chandigarh’s Sector 45||Gold jewellery and cash were stolen from the house of a property dealer on the intervening night between Tuesday and Wednesday. Rupinder Pal Singh, 64, complained to the police that they slept on Tuesday night without locking the back gate of the house. When they woke up on Wednesday, they found someone had stolen money, jewellery and some documents from an almirah. He reported a loss of two gold rings, two gold bangles, one gold chain, two diamonds, 10 silver coins and Rs 7,500 in cash. A case under Section 380 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Sector 34 police station. Police said they were going through the CCTV footage from the area to identify the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/jewellery-cash-stolen-from-house-in-chandigarh-s-sector-45/story-70BqTxGGzWp8Y4x0LZ5D0M.html
29-05-2020||City||Brakes on Chhatbir zoo’s expansion plans as revenue takes a hit amid lockdown||With no revenue for the past two months due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown and little hope of a government grant amid the crumbling economy, Mahendra Chaudhary Zoological Park’s development and expansion plans are likely to take a hit.The zoo, popularly known as Chhatbir Zoo, had been earning Rs 1.8 lakh a day before the lockdown and was hoping to become self-reliant in the next two years. It had even added numerous features, such as an aviary and new ticket counters, besides carrying out road maintenance to attract more visitors. With no scope of government funds this year, further development activities are unlikely.Besides, the zoo spends about Rs 30 lakh a month on meat, fodder, grains, fruits and vegetables for the animals. “Though there is no revenue generation, we are not cutting down on expenses incurred on feed, fodder or health care of the animals. The zoo was aiming at becoming self-reliant in two years but that seems difficult now,” said a zoo official, not willing to be named. Zoo field director M Sudhaga said, “Owing to the pandemic, there is a downfall in the revenue generation. We had collected about Rs 6.2-crore revenue last year.” The revenue came through outsourcing of the parking, canteen and lion safari-- all of which have been closed due to the pandemic. The tickets are priced at Rs 80 for adults and Rs 40 for children which contributes to generating revenue of Rs 1.8 lakh daily on an average. Lion and deer safari tickets cost Rs 75 per visitor. The zoo used to have around 3,000 visitors a day.With the loss of income eating into the savings of the zoo, the authorities have now approached the Punjab government for relaxations. The cabinet had last year directed Chhatbir zoo to deposit funds collected in the zoo society funds after deducting the expenses and use the rest of the funds after taking permission from the government.DINOSAUR PARK HIT TOO The Punjab government had planned to open a Dinosaur Park on two acres in the zoo but that plan is also likely to be put on the back-burner. “The park is being developed on public-private partnership (PPP) mode and work had started on it but now the private partner has sought some relaxations from the government,” informed a senior official.As per the proposal, six dinosaurs will be made in the park of which four will be robotic and two will be interactive models.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/brakes-on-chhatbir-zoo-s-expansion-plans-as-revenue-takes-a-hit-amid-lockdown/story-QPKbRvJtIyIm569z4SEbxO.html
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC house meet on May 29||The General House of the Chandigarh municipal corporation is all set to meet on Friday through videoconferencing, after a gap of two months. This is the first time that the House will meet virtually. On the agenda will be development works worth ₹150 crore, purchase of 20,000 PPE kits at a cost of ₹2 crore and spending from ward development funds. An MC official said, “The civic body staff has been working aggressively in containment zones. Therefore their protection is of paramount importance.” He said tender to procure the PPE kits has already been placed and as many as 34 companies have applied. The agenda is being placed for approval of the house, he said. HTC||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-house-meet-on-may-29/story-MJwTzdsMBSOrwXaxKQGt6J.html
29-05-2020||City||GMADA comes up with land pooling scheme for industry in Mohali||In a first, the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) has come up with a land pooling scheme for industrial zones under its ambit to promote industry in the city. The file has been sent to the Punjab cabinet for the final approval, which is expected in June.The industrial zones in Mohali under GMADA are in Sectors 83, 84 and 103. So far, land pooling schemes were offered only for residential projects.Under the industrial scheme, an owner whose 8-kanal land will be acquired for a project will get an 1,100 square yards developed industrial site and a 200 square yards developed SCO site. For 4-kanal land acquisition, a land owner will get a 550 square yards commercial residential site and a 100 square yard SCO site. The sites will be excluding the parking area.“Our motive is to promote industry in the region and make land owners our business partners. The file has been sent to the Punjab cabinet,” GMADA chief administrator Tanu Kashyap said.Yogesh Sagar, president of the Mohali Industries Association (MIA), said this scheme will definitely promote the industry in the region. But GMADA should also come up with concessional pricing for the existing industry, he said.Recently, GMADA had also increased compensation for land owners opting for its land pooling scheme for various residential projects. Instead of 121 square yards, the authority will now offer the land owners a commercial plot of 200 square yards.COMMERCIAL USE OF INDUSTRIAL PLOTS ALREADY ALLOWEDIn January this year, giving relief to industrialists operating in focal points of Mohali, the Punjab Small Industries Export Corporation Limited (PSIEC) had allowed commercial use of industrial plots in the state. There are around 2,000 units operating in Phases 7, 8 and 9 focal points.As per the notification, 30% of the plot area can be used for commercial activities, which means the owners can open showrooms, retail outlets and other commercial units. Earlier, only 10% of the plot area was allowed to be used for commercial activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gmada-comes-up-with-land-pooling-scheme-for-industry-in-mohali/story-vUowPQUwXbGizFIr65Dv5H.html
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||Youth arrested with 50gm heroin in Chandigarh||The crime branch of Chandigarh Police arrested a 22-year-old man for carrying 50gm heroin on Wednesday. The accused, Vishal, resident of Sector 25-D, was walking towards Shiv Mandir in Ram Darbar when he sped up his gait on spotting a police team. The cops stopped him and searched his bag where they found the heroin. Police said Vishal was facing another case of snatching registered at the Sector 39 police station. A Class 8 passout, he is currently unemployed. A case under Section 21 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act was registered at the Sector 31 police station. The accused was presented in a court on Thursday and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/youth-arrested-with-50gm-heroin-in-chandigarh/story-D26DP0b8rNkOaQSOrrGENM.html
29-05-2020||City||US-based NRI, 3 fliers from Mumbai test positive for Covid-19 in Mohali||A 32-year-old non-resident Indian (NRI) from the United States of America (USA) and three others who flew into Chandigarh International Airport from Mumbai on domestic flights tested positive of Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the count to 110 in the district.The NRI had been quarantined since May 20 at the Meritorious School. A resident of Humayun Nagar in Dera Bassi, he had landed at Indira Gandhi International Airport in Delhi and reached Mohali by road after which district administration officials quarantined him.The other three included two men, aged 32 and 30 years from Sector 67 and Phase-10, respectively, and a 29-year-old woman from Zirakpur. All of them came in from Mumbai on May 25, the day flight services resumed after the Covid-19 lockdown. The health department had taken random samples at Chandigarh International Airport.Dr Manjit Singh, civil surgeon, Mohali, said all four patients, including the NRI, had been moved to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. Their contacts had been traced and their samples would be taken tomorrow. Information about patients from other districts had been passed on to the authorities concernced, he added.Five other fliers from different districts who tested positive included two from Ludhiana, one each from Patiala, Barnala and Jalandhar. Their samples were also taken at the airport.Meanwhile, about 252 passengers belonging Mohali district landing at Chandigarh International Airport have been home quarantined.Giving details, Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said 495 passengers arrived in seven flights on May 25. Of this, 223 were from Punjab and 57 from Mohali. On May 26, six flights carried 419 passengers, of which 193 were from Punjab and 69 from Mohali. On May 27, out of 530 passengers, 228 were from Punjab and 62 from Mohali. The five flights that arrived on May 28 carried 512 passengers, including 208 from Punjab and 64 from Mohali. Just one connecting flight came in from the US via Delhi with 100 passengers, including 61 from Punjab and five from Mohali. According to health department protocols, all passengers flying in from abroad have been put in institutional/hotel quarantine while domestic passengers have been home quarantined. Those from other states and districts have been sent to their respective destinations for quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/us-based-nri-3-fliers-from-mumbai-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-mohali/story-vICk3FHDNNTmX5XJVqSgwI.html
29-05-2020||City||Mystery shrouds death of 22-year-old help at Panchkula house||A 22-year-old domestic help was found dead in a tub in the backyard of a six-marla house in Sector 16, Panchkula, on Wednesday night. Suspecting that the deceased, Preeti, a native of Sultanpur, Uttar Pradesh, was murdered, police have filed a DDR and initiated a probe. There were injury marks on the woman’s neck. Her family was settled in Panchkula’s Budanpur village.“She had started working at House Number 98 in Sector 16 about a fortnight ago. Earlier, her mother also worked there and the duo used to live in the house itself with the landlady, who is in her 70s,” a police official said.The elderly’s woman three daughters are married, and she lives alone in the house.“A neighbour saw the woman, who suffers from multiple ailments, sitting in her backyard for long even when it was raining. He called her son-in-law, who came at night and took her inside the house. There, the son-in-law found tea boiling in a pan on the gas burner and the maid lying in the tub in the backyard,” the cop said.The son-in-law sounded the police, who sent the maid to the Panchkula civil hospital in Sector 6, where she was declared dead. An autopsy was conducted and viscera samples were sent to the Haryana Forensic Science Laboratory in Madhuban to establish the cause of death. The report is awaited. The body was handed over to the family after the autopsy, and the cremation was done on Thursday.Police have ruled out the possibility of any sexual assault.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mystery-shrouds-death-of-22-year-old-help-at-panchkula-house/story-PQYdtVwpH2ETGdzd7E5K3J.html
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh likely to open up hotel, restaurant services from June 1||Hotels and restaurants are likely to open in Chandigarh from June 1, with the UT administration said to be “actively considering” the matter.As all modes of road, rail and air transport had opened with riders and there was movement of people between states and cities, backup services in terms of accommodation and food were required, said a senior UT official who wished to remain anonymous after a video conference with the cabinet secretary on Thursday.The UT administrator will take a final decision, however, depending on the guidelines issued by the Central government, he added.The hospitality industry was closed March 24 ever since the curfew to prevent the spread of Covid-19 was imposed even though the UT administration announced a slew of measures while lifting restrictions for businesses and industries as part of Lockdown 4.0.‘PROHIBITORY’ CATEGORYAccording to current Central guidelines, hotels and restaurants come under the prohibitory category, that is, these cannot be opened even if outside the containment zones.The only relaxation allowed by the administration so far, at the start of the Lockdown 4.0, was allowing restaurants to open for takeaways.“As in the case of public transport opening up in the fourth phase of the lockdown, restaurants and hotels will be allowed to open with strict guidelines, particularly with strictly restricted occupancy. The administration will come up with standard operating procedures for the hospitality industry,” said the official.Industry hit hardestThe industry is among those hit hardest by the lockdown.Ankit Gupta, president, Chandigarh Hospitality Association, said, “The industry is on the verge of collapsing in the city if not allowed to open soon. It’s running into huge losses and also facing large-scale reverse migration of industry workers. The government can keep banquet and other halls closed, but individual dining should be allowed. Procedures regarding social distancing and other precautions can be laid down.”BOX60% Bapu Dham could be de-sealed on June 1The administration will take call on opening up nearly 60% of the Bapu Dham Colony in Sector 26, both in the containment and buffer zones, by May 31.This decision is likely to be based primarily on Central guidelines of no positive cases in a specific area in 28 days for de-sealing.Bapu Dham, the epicenter of the Covid-19 pandemic in the city, is one of the six containment zones here.Three have already been declared containment free.“While, positive cases are being reported daily from Bapu Dham, these are limited to a few pockets. Out of the total 20 pockets in the area, two are within the containment zone and that too from just one pocket. In the buffer zone too some cases were positive but these were also limited to one pocket. We will open pockets with no case as it has been more than a month since these were sealed,” said a senior UT official.When contacted, UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida, said, “The UT administrator will take a final decision on it by May 31 as per Central government guidelines.”Meanwhile, the administration has already allowed migrant workers to leave the buffer zone after proper screening. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-likely-to-open-up-hotel-restaurant-services-from-june-1/story-tZF344e1tPjETElbAHsRTO.html
29-05-2020||City||Suspension of Aadhaar-related services leaves scheme beneficiaries in Ludhiana helpless||With Aadhaar-related services suspended since the Covid-19 lockdown was imposed, many beneficiaries of various government pension schemes, who receive cash at their doorsteps through direct benefit transfer (DBT) offered by post offices, have not been able to avail of the service due to mismatch of biometric details and failure to integrate bank accounts with Aadhaar. Officials of department of posts, Ludhiana, who have been working to provide door-to-door pension to beneficiaries since the first week of April, say postmen witness issues related to mismatched or incomplete biometric details daily, due to which they have not been able to carry out transactions through Aadhaar Enabled Payment System (AEPS). Punjab Circle has performed 3.89 lakh AEPS transactions and disbursed ₹61.15 crore at the doorsteps of pensioners since the lockdown was imposed. There are around 2.13 lakh pension beneficiaries in the Ludhiana district. Shamina Khatun, 30, a resident of Shyam Nagar, who visited the Rajguru Nagar post office branch on Thursday to withdraw ₹1,000 (two instalments of ₹500 each) was unable to do so since the machine was unable to match her fingerprints to the account. “The staff here informed me that this happens only when your account is not linked with Aadhaar. I need money at this time. There is no fixed date as to when Aadhaar services will resume. What is the use of receiving the benefit when I can’t even use it during this difficult period,” Khatun said. “The elderly are fearful of stepping outside the house due to Covid-19. So, post offices have been very crucial at this time for pension distribution and cash withdrawal,” said Sarita Madan, sub-postmaster of Rajguru branch. Madan said the branch had been receiving many queries from the public regarding resumption of Aadhaar-related services. “We are receiving queries from the public in general and even some industrialists who want to get their Aadhaar card updated. In the last week, there have regularly been four to five labourers whose Aadhaar card are lost or want to make some updates. Some workers seek Aadhaar as a proof for online train booking to go to their home states,” she added. Ludhiana’s senior superintendent of post office, Amanpreet Singh, said the postal department had not received any instructions from the government to resume Aadhaar services so far. “Aadhaar enrolment or update services were suspended by the government amid the Covid-19 pandemic since it involved thumb impression and iris scanning. We have received demand for the service from the public and we can also start it following government’s instruction,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/suspension-of-aadhaar-related-services-leaves-scheme-beneficiaries-in-ludhiana-helpless/story-9EATmq4EOTYtnaBR7wwaYM.html
29-05-2020||City||Drug addict ‘sells’ newborn to childless couple, wife approaches Ludhiana police for boy’s custody||The Nawanshahr deputy commissioner (DC) has marked an inquiry into a Ludhiana man allegedly selling his newborn son to a Nawanshahr couple.The inquiry was marked to the district child welfare officer after the couple appeared before the DC, as the boy’s mother has been seeking that the child be returned to her. The child’s mother, a resident of Machhiwara Bet, had delivered the boy in January. She alleged that in February, her husband sold the newborn through a neighbour woman to the Nawanshahr couple that had no child after 14 years of marriage.Three months later, the woman approached the Macchiwara police in Ludhiana, demanding that her son be returned to her. She alleged that they had received Rs 20,000 for giving the couple her son, but her husband spent the money on drugs.The woman said she had talked to the couple over phone and requested them to return the newborn. But they were demanding Rs 50,000 in cash to do so. A former sarpanch of their village offered to pay the amount, but the couple had now stopped responding, she alleged.Inspector Sukhvir Singh, SHO, Machhiwara police station, said the woman had filed a complaint to get the custody of her son. They had summoned the family that had adopted her son, but they did not appear before them and instead approached the Nawanshahr DC.The SHO said they were investigating the cash transactions between the families.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/drug-addict-sells-newborn-to-childless-couple-wife-approaches-ludhiana-police-for-boy-s-custody/story-nabTPv1BPLCVT7pwqCEaUK.html
29-05-2020||City||Ludhiana labourer arrested forraping wife’s minor niece for two years||A 36-year-old labourer has been arrested for allegedly raping his wife’s 16-year-old niece for the last two years in Ludhiana. Police have also arrested the wife of the victim’s paternal uncle for allegedly helping the accused in exchange for money. The accused woman, who is a resident of Khasi Kalan village, confessed to the police that she used to give the victim juice, cold drink or tea laced with sedatives to make her unconscious and then call the labourer to rape her. The labourer’s In her statement to the police, the victim said she lived with her father as her mother had deserted the family a few years ago, and her two brothers lived out of town. On the intervening night of May 21 and 22, when she was sleeping, the husband of her paternal aunt turned up at the house and started molesting her. She raised the alarm, following which he fled.On hearing her screams, her father, who was asleep on the terrace of the house, rushed downstairs. She narrated the entire incident to him following which he took her to the police station to lodge an FIR. The victim said the accused had been raping her for the past two years at the arrested woman’s house. Both the accused had threatened her to keep mum. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Baldev Singh, who is investigating the case, said a case under Sections 376 (rape), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act was registered against the accused. The accused were produced in a court on Thursday and sent to one-day police custody for questioning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-labourer-arrested-forraping-wife-s-minor-niece-for-two-years/story-WawmOXEOzNVIj5zZUIC5EM.html
29-05-2020||City||Eight booked for murderous attack on lottery trader in Ludhiana||A lottery trader was grievously injured after eight persons attacked him sharp-edged weapons following a verbal spat with one of them near an eatery in Ludhiana on Thursday. The accused have been identified as Saurav Kumar, a resident of Chhawni Mohalla, Garry of Rahon road and their accomplices, who are yet to be identified.The victim, Deepak Kumar, 30, is a resident Chhawani Mohalla.Kumar said on May 24, he was going to Christian Medical College and Hospital on a scooter to fetch medicine for his son when the accused intercepted him.He said they attacked him with sharp-edged weapons and iron rods and fled after assuming he was dead. Onlookers rushed him to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH).Kumar said he got into a verbal spat with one of the accused while waiting outside an eatery for their turn. The accused nursed a grudge against him for this and attacked him, he alleged.Investigating officer in the case, assistant sub-inspector Kulwinder Singh, said a case was registered under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restraint), 506 (criminal intimidation), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon) and 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) of the Indian Penal Code against the accused, and a hunt was on for their arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/eight-booked-for-murderous-attack-on-lottery-trader-in-ludhiana/story-pwrv0g2OGBfrA6W2jEnrLN.html
29-05-2020||City||Labourer commits suicide by hanging himself from tree in Ludhiana||A labourer ended his life by hanging himself from a tree at a vacant plot in Haibowal on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday. Sub-inspector Mohan Lal, station house officer (SHO) at Haibowal police station, said the man was living at his in-laws’ house with his wife. Police said he had a strained relationship with his wife and they indulged in a spat on Wednesday, after which he left the house.The next morning, his in-laws found him hanging from a tree on a vacant plot near their house and informed the police.Lal said police had initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Criminal Procedure Code after his wife gave her statement. The body was sent to the civil hospital for post-mortem examination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/labourer-commits-suicide-by-hanging-himself-from-tree-in-ludhiana/story-PbFqUPMOFogYQ7yiG1Y5rJ.html
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s plans to start local bus services from Sec 17 may run into hurdles||The UT transport department’s plans to operate the local bus service from the Sector 17 inter-state bus terminus (ISBT) by June 1 is unlikely to materialise as wholesalers won’t be able to shift the temporary vegetable and fruit market any time soon.The wholesale market had been temporarily shifted to Sector 17 from Sector 26 in view of the huge number of Covid-19 cases coming from the Bapu Dham Colony in Sector 26. Besides, construction and repair work was also started in Sector 26, which is expected to continue well beyond June 1.After the transport department resumed its local bus service, it wrote to the Sector 26 market committee to hand over the possession of ISBT by June 1. The transport director, in his letter to the administrator of the market committee and the municipal commissioner, had written, “According to the orders of the UT adviser, the Chandigarh administration has resumed the tricity bus service. We are currently shifting our operations to the Sector 43 bus stand temporarily, with a request to shift the vegetable and fruit market from Sector 17 ISBT to an appropriate place at the earliest so that we are able to start our from there soon. This may be treated as most urgent.”The letter also stated that requests are pouring in from other states to allow their buses to enter Chandigarh.Municipal corporation commissioner KK Yadav said, “As maintenance and repair works are currently in progress at the Sector 26 market, and this is expected to go beyond June 1, the ISBT-17 will continue to be used as the temporary vegetable market.”Meanwhile, the transport department, which had written to different states for their consent to start inter-state bus service, has not received any response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-plans-to-start-local-bus-services-from-sec-17-may-run-into-hurdles/story-41RoYpS6MNrIyf1DVSb7tJ.html
29-05-2020||City||Shramik trains from Ludhiana: Special on-the-spot registration for migrants on May 29||In a huge respite for migrants stranded in the district, the administration has allowed them to visit the Guru Nanak Stadium in Ludhiana at 10am on Friday and get on-the-spot registration for Shramik Special trains to Uttar Pradesh (UP)and Bihar.Deputy commissioner (DC) Pradeep Kumar Agrawal said the opportunity was available for migrants, who were unable to get themselves registered or their turn to board the trains had not come yet.He said for the past 24 days, several trains carrying migrants had departed for UP, Bihar, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh and other states from the Ludhiana railway station. Around 3 lakh people had departed from Ludhiana in 194 trains, he said, adding that all migrants, who were shortlisted for the trains, were contacted by the administration through calls and SMS.following the registrations on Friday, Agrawal said, the administration will raise the demand for adequate trains so that the migrants can be sent to their home towns at the earliest.He said the Punjab government was paying for the passengers’ travel, food, water and pick-up service from designated points. “Their medical screening is also done, after which, they are issued medical certificates by the administration,” Agrawal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shramik-trains-from-ludhiana-special-on-the-spot-registration-for-migrants-on-may-29/story-97cYAXzEDuZig5JFvRPifK.html
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||History-sheeter, aides held with illegal weapons in Ludhiana||The Khanna police have arrested a history-sheeter and his accomplices for possessing two illegal pistols on Thursday.The accused have been identified as Bhagwant Singh alias Lali of Shehzad village in Ludhiana and Amanpreet Singh alias Ricky of Nashik, Maharashtra.Khanna senior superintendent of police (SSP) Harpreet Singh said the accused were arrested near Alaour village during checking. The trio was coming from Mandi Gobindgarh side in a Hyundai i-20 car.The SSP added that Amanpreet tried to escape, but the cops nabbed him.The police recovered a .25 bore pistol and five bullets from Bhagwant, who was driving the car. With the information provided by him, the police seized another.30 bore pistol from his house. The accused told the cops that he had not renewed the licence of his .30 bore gun since 2016.Bhagwant is already facing trial in five cases including murder, attempt to murder, kidnapping, trespassing and assault, the SSP informed.Amanpreet lives in a rented accommodation in Dugri, while Bhagwant stays at a rented room in New Ashpuri of Ludhiana. More important information has been expected from the accused during questioning, the SSP said.A case under Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act has been registered against the accused at police station City-2 in Khanna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/history-sheeter-aides-held-with-illegal-weapons-in-ludhiana/story-xackbMPy6Yyotivy8N1lRI.html
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||Building branch failed to keep online record of CLU, ED charges: Ludhiana MC panel||An MC committee on Thursday revealed that the building branch had failed to maintain the online record of charges levied and challans issued under change of land use (CLU) and external development (ED).The MC committee, which met at Zone D office, has sought a report on the said charges levied in various municipal zones.Councillors Mamta Ashu, Dr Jai Prakash, Sunny Bhalla, Dilraj Singh and OP Ratra among others attended the meeting, besides MC additional commissioner Rishipal Singh and joint commissioner Kulpreet Singh.The committee has also sought a report on how the non-compoundable (those that can’t be regularised) buildings, which were sealed by the MC in the past, had been allowed to open.In January, the committee had accused the building branch staff of levying different charges in every municipal zone to favour builders and building owners. The committee had said MC officials had charged the rates approved by the state government in 2017 against many buildings, even though these rates were disapproved by the MC general house.Councillor Ashu said, “In the January meeting, the committee members had sought a report regarding the buildings which had been approved in the past by municipal town planner (MTP) Monica Anand within two days, but it has still not been submitted. Now, the officials have claimed that the report would be submitted in the next meeting. In that report, the MTP has been asked to list the orders of authorities concerned based on which the charges were collected from building owners.”The state government had approved new CLU and EDC rates in 2017. But the MC house had rejected the same and officials were directed to continue charging the 2014 rates. However, the building branch officials have been imposing both the rates (whichever is less) in different MC zones to benefit the builders, said Mamta Ashu adding that an illegal 10 storey building was constructed in Feroze Gandhi market area, but no action had been taken against the same. “It is surprising that building branch officials have not uploaded the challans issued against the buildings in the last five months and illegal buildings are being constructed in the city. The committee has sought action against the officials for their failure to upload the information. The officials have been told to submit the report in four days, following which, action would be recommended against the erring staff members,” said Ashu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/building-branch-failed-to-keep-online-record-of-clu-ed-charges-ludhiana-mc-panel/story-tG3sI9HGbDzq7Kxi7Z8N9L.html
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||Party row: Lodhi Club submits internal inquiry report to Ludhiana DC||Following the row over a ‘party’ organised by its seven executive members amid the lockdown on Sunday, Lodhi Club general secretary Nitin Mahajan submitted the report of an internal inquiry to the deputy commissioner on Wednesday evening.The club had landed in a controversy after an audio surfaced on the internet wherein two members of the club were discussing about the party. While the seven executive committee members claimed that they had gathered for an official meeting at the club, DC Pardeep Agrawal had summoned a report of the same from Mahajan, who along with two other women executive members, did not go to the club that day.Mahajan said the executive members were captured in the closed circuit television (CCTV) cameras while moving out with cases of beer carrying 109 bottles. The latter, however, claimed that they had participated in a club meeting. The cases were taken out because the beer had expired and the bottles were destroyed, the members in question have claimed.“As per the rumours, the security supervisor, who was deputed at the club on Sunday and had captured the incident on his mobile phone, has ‘not been approachable’ since Monday. It is also being said that the members had got the video deleted from his phone and allegedly terminated his services, but no proof of the same has come to light till now,” said Mahajan.Sources at the club said the security supervisor has submitted a complaint with the DC regarding the entire incident.Mahajan said, “The members concerned have claimed that they went to the club for a meeting, which was called by sports secretary Dr Avinash Jindal for reviewing some projects of the club and they only had lunch, brought by one of the members from his house. In the CCTV footage, members were seen moving out with beer cases, but they said the beer had expired and they took out the same for destroying it. I have submitted my report with the DC and he will take further call,” said Mahajan.Despite several attempts, the DC remained unavailable for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/party-row-lodhi-club-submits-internal-inquiry-report-to-ludhiana-dc/story-3Re4l5GOSTWR28imftw8iN.html
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||Over 15,000 migrants head home on Shramik trains from Ludhiana||Around 15,000 migrants boarded eight Shramik Special trains from Ludhiana railway station on Thursday.Most migrants who arrived at Government College for Girls here were seen flouting social distancing norms while queuing up for medical screening and collecting eatables before boarding the special trains to reach Uttar Pradesh and Bihar.Vikram, a migrant worker, said, “I reached the college ground at 2pm to be able to board the Madepur train for Gorakpur at 5.45pm. We were asked to stand in a queue and after two hours of waiting, we were given medical certificates and eatables before taking the train. I hope to reach home by tomorrow. For the last two months, I was jobless and was waiting for the day to return home.”Special trains such as for Nawada (having stoppages at Lucknow, Aurangabad and Rohatas) departed at 12 noon, for Jamui (stoppages at Sultanpur, Babua and Aurangabad) at 2pm, for Supaul (with stoppages at Saharsa, Begusarai and Hajipur) at 4pm, for Madepura (stoppages at Gorakhpur, Saharsa, Khagria) at 5.45pm, for Patna (stoppages at Jaunpur, Hardoi and Baxar) at 7.30pm, for Nalanda (stoppages at Bareilly, Chhapra and Patna) at 9.15pm, and for Mirzapur (stoppages at Itawa, Fatehpur and Prayagraj) at 11pm. Each train carries around 1,600 migrants.The state government has paid for the travel, food, water and pickup service from designated points.Deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal has informed that the migrants who want to travel to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar can come directly to Guru Nanak Stadium at 10am on May 29 for registration. The district administration will then raise demand for more trains as per their numbers, Agrawal added.He said for the last 24 days, several trains carrying migrants have departed for UP, Bihar, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh and other states from the city station.So far, around 3 lakh migrants have left for their hometowns on 194 special trains from Ludhiana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/over-15-000-migrants-board-shramik-trains-from-ludhiana-railway-station-today/story-NaBwi6yrhiCnKSWTyYXcZO.html
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||Congress misrule will be exposed soon, says new Ludhiana BJP chief||Taking charge of the office on Thursday, BJP district president Pushpindar Singhal said he will give a fierce fight to the Congress-led state government.Miffed at his posters being taken down across the city, Singhal said the municipal corporation employees were operating at the behest of Congress leaders and removed his hoardings.He alleged that Congress leaders were involved in bungling of food grains and pulses meant for the poor.“In the days to come, the misrule by Congress leaders will be exposed before the public,” said Singhal at the BJP district office near Clock Tower in the city as he took over as the new president.The event was attended by general secretary Dinesh Kumar, Punjab BJP general secretaries Jeevan Gupt and Dr Subhash Sharma, Ludhiana in-charge Malvinder Kang, Ludhiana co-officer Vineet Mahajan, Punjab BJP vice-president Parveen Bansal, treasurer Gurdev Sharma Debi, co-treasurer Ravindra Arora, chief spokesperson Anil Sarin and former Punjab BJP president Rajinder Bhandari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cong-misrule-will-be-exposed-soon-says-new-ludhiana-bjp-chief/story-NwShPDZskjzcQpVp6bS2IK.html
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana school bus operators stage stir, demand relief package||: The members of school bus operator welfare association on Thursday staged a protest against the state government and demanded a special relief package.The agitators demanded direct transfer of money on the lines of the Delhi government.School bus welfare association president Harjit Singh Kalsi said nearly 30,000 school bus operators from across the state have been rendered jobless due to the spread of Covid-19 and that many among them were under huge debt.He said these bus operators were submitting nearly ₹60 crore in the form of taxes. “But the pandemic has devastated everything. Neither the schools nor the partners are giving us money. We have exhausted our savings and are now facing a serious scarcity of food,” Kalsi rued.Due to the new policy of the government, they had to buy new vehicles for which they took huge loans, he claimed.“We demand that on the pattern of the AAP government in Delhi, which is offering financial relief to autorickshaw drivers and bus operators by directly transferring the amount in their bank accounts, the Punjab government should offer a similar relief package,” said Kalsi.Expressing their plight outside the deputy commissioner’s office, they said hunger would kill them before Covid-19 could.After the protest, the delegation members handed over a memorandum to the DC and demanded immediate relief from the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-school-bus-operators-stage-stir-demand-relief-package/story-bj0hwtWtNzPyWyhA6fi66H.html
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC deploys poclain excavators to desilt Budhha Nullah||The municipal corporation (MC) deployed poclain excavators for the desilting of Budhha Nullah ahead of monsoon on Thursday.Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu has hired a private company for the task, instead of assigning it to the irrigation department, which would have charged nearly ₹90 lakh for the work.As per information, two machines have been deployed at different points of the nullah at a cost of ₹4.1 lakh per month. The MC would bear the cost of fuel required to run the excavators.The nullah is the city’s main drain and desilting it is critical before the onset of monsoon to prevent overflowing of sewer waste and rainwater on the roads.In the past, the MC used to start desilting the nullah in the beginning of April, but it got delayed this time. Moreover, the fund-starved civic body decided to take up the job itself this year and saved lakhs of rupees it would otherwise pay to the irrigation department for the work.As the JCB machines were unable to clean the nullah properly due to their limited reach, the mayor had asked MC officials to rope in a private player for the same.“The Namdhari sect had cleaned the nullah a few months ago and the MC has also deployed JCB machines to clear garbage and silt from the drain, but it has been realised that poclain machines are necessary at some points. The nullah would be cleaned before monsoon hits the city so that residents do not face any trouble,” the mayor said.The nullah overflows in New Kundanpuri and Upkar Nagar areas almost every year during monsoon, and residents have to bear the brunt of MC’s delay in the desilting exercise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-mc-deploys-poclain-excavators-to-desilt-budhha-nullah/story-pKSO1E4XbU4yperlmZmlYL.html
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana govt school goes green with 15 kW solar plant||Under the smart city project, Government Model Senior Secondary School, Haibowal Khurd, will now be powered by a 15 kW rooftop solar plant which was installed here on Thursday.The project was inaugurated by mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu on the school campus.The solar panels will enable the school to generate more energy and save up to 5 lakh units annually. Presently, the school authorities are paying monthly power bills of around ₹18,000.As per the system, the electricity generated goes to the power department and the units are adjusted in the monthly bill.The school, which has more than 782 students in Classes 6 to 12, had been facing difficulty in paying the electricity bill after every two months.School principal Kamaljit said, “With the installation of 15 kW solar panels, we can save units and the electricity bill will come down drastically.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-govt-school-goes-green-with-15-kw-solar-plant/story-HTRb9FMzmMgqCiD4vjcpdJ.html
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana’s GGNKC holds online symposium on role of science in post Covid-19 era||HT Correspondent A two-day online international symposium on ‘Role of science in the post Covid-19 era’ was started at Gujranwala Guru Nanak Khalsa College (GGNKC) here on Thursday.Registrations poured in from all streams such as physics, chemistry, botany, zoology, agriculture, computer science, mathematics, political science, social sciences, humanities and literature.MPS Ishar, vice-chancellor of Maharaja Ranjit Singh Technical University, Bhatinda, addressed the symposium as the chief guest. The lectures were delivered by Prof Arvind, Outreach Coordinator of Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Mohali, and Prof Amjad Husain, CEO of Innovation and Incubation Centre for Entrepreneurship at Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Bhopal.Ishar emphasised upon the value of basic and applied sciences for the fields of research and development and shed light upon the time and mind being devoted by researchers (biologists and medical scientists) globally to develop the vaccine for Covid-19.While delivering his talk on quantum biology, Prof Arvind explained the applications of quantum mechanics and theoretical chemistry to biological objects and problems.Prof Husain talked about personalised approach using genomics for the better treatment of cancer during the technical session.Gujranwala Khalsa Educational Council president S P Singh highlighted the need for such events in educational institutions during this pandemic that has hit all spheres of life. Such events provide opportunities to academicians, research scholars and students to learn even during lockdown, he saidHonorary general secretary Arvinder Singh said in the era of web and technology, there’s nothing which can stop students from learning and that the college is committed to excel in everything.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-s-ggnkc-holds-online-symposium-on-role-of-science-in-post-covid-19-era/story-v3pZMPSOLAM1JAeJczkCdN.html
29-05-2020||City||Panvel records 29 new Covid cases||Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) reported 29 more cases on Thursday, taking the total to 448. Two deaths were also reported.Metropolis Lab will conduct 10,000 Covid tests free in Panvel. This will help the civic body save ₹4.5 crore.Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) reported 78 new cases on Thursday. The total cases in Navi Mumbai are 1,931. Two deaths were reported. Five children, including a month-old-baby, are among the new Covid positive cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panvel-records-29-new-covid-cases/story-dz0i6KQ5B8GLYgBngQck3J.html
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||SAD seeks probe into sale of ‘spurious’ paddy seeds in Mohali||chandigarh@hindustantimes.com Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) MLA from Dera Bassi, NK Sharma along with other Akali leaders on Thursday submitted a memorandum to Mohali additional deputy commissioner Ashika Jain demanding a CBI probe into the alleged illegal sale of “spurious” versions of paddy seed varieties PR-128 and PR-129 in Punjab.Stating that both the varieties are officially developed by the Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), Sharma said a private shop outside PAU was selling the seeds of these varieties to the farmers on higher rates. “While PAU sells these at ₹70 per kg, the private shop is charging ₹200-250 per kg for seeds branded as ‘Karnal Agri Seeds’,” he said.“We want CBI probe into the case or some retired justice should conduct the inquiry so that the guilty are booked,” he demanded.When asked, DC Ashika Jain said as per the report of district agriculture officer, these seeds were not sold in Mohali, but they would still conduct an enquiry into the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sad-seeks-probe-into-sale-of-spurious-paddy-seeds-in-mohali/story-5WwQlRPYV0NSApQbKbxE1M.html
29-05-2020||City||Kalyan crosses 900 mark with 29 new cases||The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) recorded 29 new Covid-19 cases and one death on Thursday, taking the death toll to 27 and positive cases to 911. A 52-year-old autorickshaw driver from Kalyan (East) died on May 24 and his test report on Thursday showed he was infected, said the KDMC health officials. He was admitted to RR Covid hospital in Dombivli on May 23.“The patient was diabetic and asthmatic,” said an official from KDMC health department.On Thursday, KDMC commissioner Vijay Suryavanshi announced free Covid test for patients referred from 10 fever clinics across Kalyan-Dombivli, Rukminibai civic hospital in Kalyan, Shastrinagar civic hospital in Dombivli, suspected patients at Tata Amantra Covid Care Centre at Kalyan-Bhiwandi road as well as pregnant women registered at Shastrinnagar Hospital and Rukminibai Hospital.“There has been lot of confusion among patients about Covid tests carried out by the civic body. The civic chief has said tests will be free for those patients referred from civic fever clinics, civic hospitals and the quarantine centre,” said Madhavi Pophale, public relations officer, KDMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kalyan-crosses-900-mark-with-29-new-cases/story-bIpnUvlGoPdUQOLzH2GuWJ.html
29-05-2020||City||29 ventilators worth ₹3 crore given to hospitals||In a boost for the state to fight against Covid-19, Hindustan Unilever Limited (HUL) is providing 29 ventilators worth ₹3 crore to government hospitals in Maharashtra.The ventilators are being delivered to the Thane health department for use across several hospitals in the state. While three neonatal ventilators and two AR 100C ventilators have been delivered recently, a batch of five Philips ventilators was delivered on Thursday. The remaining ventilators will be delivered over the next few days.In early May, HUL had donated 5,000 sets of PPEs, 20,000 N95 masks, 2,00,000 gloves, 112 pulse oximeter and 28 oxygen concentrators worth more than ₹2 crore to the state public health department. HUL will also donate seven high-flow nasal cannula ventilators worth ₹17 lakh to Nair Hospital in Mumbai in the coming week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/29-ventilators-worth-3-crore-given-to-hospitals/story-gfcWRqRjtQ8ylYN1hyBKIP.html
29-05-2020||City||Thane records 154 new cases, three deaths||The steady rise in number of Covid cases in Thane continued with the city reporting 154 new cases on Thursday. Three deaths were also reported. The total Covid deaths in the city are 75.With the number of cases crossing 2,500, the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has completely shut the city till May 31. Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner, said, “A 44-year-old policewoman who died in Jupiter Hospital on May 21 is among the three deaths recorded on Thursday. A 76-year-old man from Wagale Estate and a 55-year-old man from Nagsen Nagar in Naupada are among the three who died.”The city has recorded 2,604 positive cases while 1,085 people were discharged from hospitals.Malvi added, “We have shut down the entire city till May 31. Only medical stores and dairies will be allowed to operate. Groceries and vegetable stores will remain shut. Some of the wards have allotted specific timings for some grocery stores to open.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-records-154-new-cases-three-deaths/story-3sKYtImvTRJedHn2sv7J1K.html
29-05-2020||City||Doctor, food delivery man booked for posting memes against ex-CM||The Kamothe police have booked a doctor and a food delivery man for allegedly posting memes ridiculing a former chief minister of Maharashtra on a social media post. No arrest has been made.A Kamothe-based civil contractor, also a political party worker, lodged a case at Kamothe police station on Wednesday against the two. The doctor also works for a political party.According to the police, the duo posted memes on a Facebook post on May 10 on a page dedicated to the former CM. The post questioned the increase in the number of coronavirus cases in the state.The duo posted memes in the comment section with a caricature of the former CM and another meme where his face was morphed on a woman leaping a wall to defy the lockdown.“We have registered a case under sections of Indian Penal Code for defamation, public mischief and violating orders. No arrest has been made and the persons have been issued a notice to join the investigation,” said an officer from Kamothe police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/doctor-food-delivery-man-booked-for-posting-memes-against-ex-cm/story-LScKtqGpCpKupAbkzWCk8J.html
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||Youth stabbed to death in Karnal||A 27-year-old man was stabbed to death while his friend was injured in a clash that broke out in Pundri village of Karnal district, police said on Thursday. The deceased has been identified as Jitender Kumar and the injured is Deepak Kumar, both residents of the same village where the crime took place.As per the police, the incident occurred on Wednesday evening following an altercation over the rent of a shop owned by Deepak.Deepak and Jitendra were attacked by miscreants with sharp-edged weapons. They were rushed to the civil hospital in Gharaunda but were later referred to Karnal medical college. However, Jitender died on the way to the hospital.Manoj Kumar, in-charge of Gharaunda police station, said they have registered a case under sections 302 and 307 of the IPC and relevant sections of the Arms Act against 15 people, four of whom have been identified as Gurmeet Singh, Deepak, Pappal and Chhota. However, no arrest has been made so far, but an investigation was on, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/youth-stabbed-to-death-in-karnal/story-v69ni6HRn0WefudX90S0KO.html
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: 4 market committee officials suspended for fraudulent activities, mustard procurement hit||Mustard procurement in Haryana turned murky when involvement of certain market committee officials in fraudulent activities surfaced, leading to their suspension. An inquiry has been initiated into the matter and we have suspended four market committee officials, confirmed additional chief secretary, agriculture and farmers’ welfare department, Sanjeev Kaushal on Friday.Mustard growers have, meanwhile, expressed their worries and said they haven’t been able to sell their produce for past more than a week.Procurement at many centres was stopped after the government received complaints regarding illegal activities involving some commission agents, farmers and market committee officials.They were allegedly selling the mustard bought from Rajasthan in the name of local farmers at the MSP of Rs 4,425 per quintal in state mandis. Additional chief secretary Kaushal said, “Some commission agents purchased the mustard from Rajasthan at rates Rs 600-700 lower than prescribed and sold the same in Haryana mandis with the help of certain farmers and market committee officials.” “We are registering FIRs against those involved in the scam. Most of the farmers have already sold their produce and the crop of remaining ones will be purchased after proper verification,” Kaushal added.‘WAITING FOR MY TURN FOR PAST 8 DAYS’The government has been procuring mustard (40 quintals from a farmer in one go) across 165 centres in the state.Sumod Kumar, a farmer from Bhiwani’s Surpura Khurd village, said the government had stopped purchasing their crop on May 20. “Many farmers from my village have sold their crop and few of them even received payment. But, I have been waiting for my turn for the past eight days. When I contacted commission agents and market committee officials, they told me that they will resume the process after getting a green signal from the government,” he said.“Mandi officials had issued tokens to farmers at Behal Mandi on May 20 and since then, many of them are waiting for resumption of procurement,” he added.However, since the procurement process was stopped across mandis, the private dealers have been reportedly buying mustard at ₹ 4,100 to 4,180 per quintal.Raj Bala, a farmer from Dadri’s Atela village, said she was worried as the government has not been procuring their produce for the past five days.“The commission agent had told me last week that my turn to sell mustard will come up by May 25. When I called him again, he told me that the mandi officials were not issuing tokens and the procurement process was put on hold. He assured me that I’d be informed if the government reopens mandis this week,” the farmer added.Dadri market committee secretary Suresh Khokar said the government had issued orders to stop the mustard purchase to ensure lifting of pending crop procured from commission agents and store the same at government godowns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mustard-growers-in-haryana-fret-as-procurement-process-comes-to-halt/story-TAROV1moAqCWgFSleY1piK.html
29-05-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai DJ swaps deck for doctor’s scrubs to fight coronavirus||As the city continues to battle a growing number of coronavirus cases, local DJ Sanjay Meriya set aside his turntable and dusted off a long-unused medical degree in order to help out.Meriya, 30, known as The Spindoctor in Mumbai music circles, began work last month as a medical volunteer after spotting a government newspaper ad asking for help.He has chiefly been visiting a slum in one of Mumbai’s worst-hit suburbs, clad in a protective suit and gloves, to instruct residents about the precautions they should take to ward off the coronavirus.“I’m very patriotic. I can battle this way [as a doctor],” said Meriya, who signed up as a volunteer for at least three months.Mumbai accounts for more than 32,000 of India’s 150,000 cases of the coronavirus, making it the worst-hit city. With government hospitals short of beds and health officials overworked, volunteers like Meriya are all the more important.Meriya began to dabble in DJing as a hobby at around the age of 20, while studying for his medical degree but said it then “took over me” – much to his family’s dismay.“They hated it. They still hate it,” he said of his decision to become a DJ.Although worried about his potential exposure to the virus, Meriya’s family is thrilled to see him back in medicine.“They now have a lot to share with all our relatives, if you know what I mean when it comes to Indian families,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-dj-swaps-deck-for-doctor-s-scrubs-to-fight-coronavirus/story-pAl2FDVh6iY6HcGki3EcPN.html
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||Flood preparedness: Rs 55 crore sanctioned for de-silting of drains in Punjab||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday sanctioned Rs 55 crore for undertaking flood protection and de-silting measures on priority in the state, with directions to complete the same before the onset of the monsoon.The CM, while chairing a VC meeting to review the state’s flood preparedness, asked the finance department to immediately place a total of Rs 50 crore with the DCs to carry out the de-silting of drains before June 30, and complete the flood protection works by the first week of July. A sum of Rs 5 crore has been allocated to the water resources department for any emergency works that may be needed in this regard.During the meeting, discussions were also held on a set of three initial reports submitted by Israel’s national water company, Mekorot Development and Enterprise, on the state’s water situation and roadmap for tackling the water crisis. The state government had, in June last year, signed an agreement with the company for formulation of Water Conservation and Management Master Plan for the state. The company was mandated to submit its recommendations within 18 months, and is scheduled to share its final report of the master plan in October 2020.The meeting discussed the flood preparedness report prepared by the drainage administration of water resources department, and reviewed the situation and the state’s level of preparation to tackle any flooding.The CM directed the department to take all possible steps to ensure that there is no recurrence of floods like those witnessed last year in the state. The department was asked to maintain regular contact with the departments concerned, including the meteorological department, Government of India and the Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB), to ensure that advance forecasts are received and disseminated well in time.With reservoirs filling up more due to the excessive snowfall this year, the CM directed the department to make all efforts to ensure that the Bhakra dam levels are kept under check with adequate cushion to receive the monsoon rainfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/flood-preparedness-rs-55-crore-sanctioned-for-de-silting-of-drains-in-punjab/story-lSLoF8ItAtyatzU3Ngqt9N.html
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||Physical training instructors’ rally: Panipat DC seeks explanation from local police||A day after hundreds of physical training instructors (PTIs) gathered in Panipat in violation of lockdown guidelines issued by the ministry of home affairs, the Panipat deputy commissioner ordered an inquiry into the matter and sought explanation from the local police. Worried about their jobs, PTIs from several districts of Haryana participated in the rally organised to raise voice against Supreme Court’s April 8 order upholding the decision of the Punjab and Haryana High Court which had quashed the appointment of 1,983 PTIs made by the then Congress government in 2010. Karnal BJP Member of Parliament (MP) Sanjay Bhatia posted a video on his Facebook account in which he was seen addressing the gathering and assuring them that the government was concerned about their livelihood.“Aapke case ke liye maine apne dhar ki baaji lagai hui hai, mukhayamntri saheb ne kaha hai ki humein kisi ki naukari khane ka koi haq nahi hai (I’ve put my life on the line for your case, the CM has said that we have no right to take away anyone’s bread and butter),” he told the gathering. The MP, however, had made repeated requests not to hold the rally and gather in large numbers, but to no avail.Panipat deputy commissioner Dharmender Singh said, “Soon after the matter was brought to my knowledge, I sought an explanation from the station house officer of the area.” “Yes, this is a violation of the MHA guidelines as they did not seek any permission to hold the rally,” he added.When asked about the large gathering and the MP’s presence in the rally, he said, “It could not have been predicted as the MP was also under the impression that only a few people would turn up to give him a memorandum.” However, Bhatia could not be contacted for his comments over the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/physical-training-instructors-rally-panipat-dc-seeks-explanation-from-local-police/story-hJQjElSbQoOiZquMk13orM.html
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||532-kg heroin haul: NIA files supplementary chargesheet against narco-terrorist||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Thursday filed the first supplementary chargesheet against a narco-terrorist, who was among 17 people arrested for their alleged involvement in the 532-kg heroin haul case.The contraband, which was smuggled from Pakistan in a consignment of rock salt, was seized from the integrated check post (ICP) at the Attari border in June last year. The chargesheet was filed against Amit Gambhir, alias Bobby, a resident of Amritsar, in the NIA special court at Mohali under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, a spokesperson of the NIA said in a statement.Gambhir, who was also known as Babu, Shoe Mallet and King India Amir Sir, was the 17th accused arrested in the case which came to light with the seizure of 532kg of heroin and 52kg of mixed narcotics at the ICP on June 29 last year.In December last year, the NIA filed chargesheet against 16 accused, including Tariq Ahmad Lone, Jasbir Singh, Nirbhail Singh, Sandeep Kaur, Ajay Gupta, Ranjeet Singh, alias Rana, Iqbal Singh, Farookh Lone, Sahil, Sohaib Noor and Amir Noor and four companies -- Kanishk Enterprises Private Limited, Gupta Fast Forwards, Global Vision Impex, and Aimex General Trading Company.The official said that the investigation revealed the involvement of an international drug racket based in Pakistan as well as in Afghanistan. The official further said that during investigation it was also found that generation of funds through sale of narcotics smuggled from across the international border was used for funding terrorist activities in Jammu and Kashmir.On the basis of intelligence by the NIA, kingpin of the racket Ranjit Singh, alias Rana or Cheeta, was arrested along with his father Harbhajan Singh and brother Gagandeep Singh in a joint operation by NIA, Punjab Police and Haryana Police. The NIA took the custody of Ranjit on Thursday. The court has already granted bail to salt trader Ajay Gupta. The main accused in the case, Gurpinder Singh, 29, who owned Kanishk Enterprises — an import-export firm in Amritsar — died under mysterious circumstances in judicial custody on July 21 last year after which the NIA took over the probe. According to the customs department, the contraband was to be delivered to Ranjit Rana, kingpin of the racket.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/532-kg-heroin-haul-nia-files-supplementary-chargesheet-against-narco-terrorist/story-PrtIV6Lk4jA7vifOVKObMO.html
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana to randomly verify addresses of 5% train passengers||Train passengers arriving in Haryana will have to undergo mandatory 14-day home quarantine, the state government said. As per the standard operating procedure (SoP) issued by the Haryana government on Thursday, the railway authorities will communicate a list of passengers to the nodal officers in the district and superintendent of police (SP) four hours before a train leaves for Haryana. The Railways will also get an identity card collected or recorded against each passenger so as to facilitate random checks of addresses of passengers. For every scheduled train, 5% percent passengers will be verified randomly for their addresses. However, this may be reduced in consultation with health department, the SoP stated. The district administration, in consultation with health department and district police, will supervise home quarantine of all passengers who arrive at a station. Every passenger will be screened and only asymptomatic passengers will be allowed to board. The Railways will also ensure that every passenger has downloaded Aarogya Setu app before boarding the train.Government Railway Police (GRP) will be responsible for screening of all passengers arriving and departing from a railway station.DIG (Railways) Ashwin Shenvi will supervise the operations on behalf of the GRP and SP, GRP, Smiti Chaudhary will assist him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-to-randomly-verify-addresses-of-5-train-passengers/story-r8N4bU5flTX03zQUBpXk9H.html
29-05-2020||Mumbai||2 more doctors in city die of Covid-19; 1 had to ‘wait 2 days for ICU bed’||A 51-year-old general physician from Cheeta Camp, Trombay, died of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on May 26 at the Lokmanya Tilak Municipal General Hospital, also known as Sion Hospital, after allegedly waiting two days for an ICU bed. An ayurvedic doctor (general physician), who is in his 50s, from Andheri (East), also succumbed to the infection on Thursday afternoon at Somaiya hospital. He also used to practise as a vaastu consultant. Dr Bhagat Singh Patil, cultural secretary of Kurla doctor association, confirmed the fatality. This takes the Covid death toll of doctors in the city to five, with the Sion Hospital death the third from M-ward, one of the hotspots in the city. The Trombay doctor was brought to Sion Hospital early on May 24 by his 17-year-old son. As the hospital did not have a vacant ICU bed, the doctor was given a waiting-list number— 41 — and had to wait in a crowded casualty ward. His son said that owing to the lack of beds, patients were even lying on the floors between the beds. Finally, by the afternoon of May 25, he was shifted to the Covid ward, but succumbed to his infection the next day. “I kept requesting the doctors to give him a bed, but they told me that there were several like me who were making similar requests,” said his son.The physician used to run a clinic in his locality and also worked with the government ambulance service — 108 — at night as an emergency doctor to attend to Covid-19 patients. His family said he had complained of fever and cold for two-three days, but on May 23, he suddenly developed breathlessness. Around 11pm, he, along with his 17-year-old son, caught an autorickshaw and rushed to a nearby clinic. But they referred them to the civic-run Maa Hospital, which refused to admit the patient without a report confirming he had tested positive for the virus. “It was around 12am when we reached Shatabdi Hospital, but owing to the unavailability of beds, they didn’t admit my father. By then, his condition had deteriorated further. He kept telling me to arrange for oxygen for him as he couldn’t breathe, but I was all alone and didn’t know what to do,” said his son on the phone. The auto driver rushed them to Sion Hospital around 12.30am. His son said there was no stretcher and the auto driver and he carried the doctor to the casualty ward, where he was given a waiting number.“On the second day, another patient was asked to share the same bed. So, my husband had to sit confined to a corner of the bed to make space. He needed to be in the intensive care unit (ICU), but he was kept only on oxygen supply for two days,” said his wife. Around 12.30pm on May 26, he was declared dead. For two days, the doctor stayed at the casualty ward with the same clothes as no other family member came to help the teenager. “My siblings are too young (14 and 16 years) and my mother has never travelled alone, so I had no other option, but to take care of him alone. Due to lack of transport, other relatives couldn’t come,” said the son.Dr Ramesh Bharmal, dean of Sion Hospital, said that to address the issue of overcrowding of patients, they are trying to extend the number of Covid beds to 430. “We get one of the highest number of Covid cases in the city. Being a partially converted Covid hospital, we have to provide treatment both to infected and non-Covid patients.At present, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has 645 beds in ICU. Out of this, 99% are occupied. Out of the 373 ventilator beds, 72% are occupied. Dedicated Covid Hospitals with severe cases have 6,099 beds. Out of this, 96% are occupied. This is as per the data released by BMC on Thursday.“If anyone calls the helpline number— 1916 — it gets connected to a doctor who asked for symptoms of the suspected patient. Depending on the condition of the person, they will be allotted centres or hospitals for treatment,” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2-more-doctors-in-city-die-of-covid-19/story-VNVvmvGUNz6OaNux6iCu4K.html
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||Women were arm-twisted to accuse Amritsar temple priest of rape: Police||The case in which two women had alleged that they were raped at Dera Guru Gian Nath situated on the premises of a historic temple in Amritsar was a conspiracy to unseat the dera priest, police have found in the investigations. Two of the eight conspirators who arm-twisted the women to make false allegations have been arrested, police said. On May 18, police had arrested two priests and booked four people for rape on the complaint of two women, aged 25 and 45. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Vikramjit Singh Duggal told the media that when the medical report of the women didn’t confirm rape, the women were questioned. “They spilled the beans and told the police that it was a conspiracy of Tirath Singh, Joga Singh, Gopal Singh, Tarsem Singh, Vicky, Mandeep Singh, Sukhwinder Singh and Meghnath of different villages in Amritsar to unseat dera’s head Baba Girdhari Nath,” he said. The SSP said the women have told the police that the 14-year-old son of the elder of the two was also abducted by the eight accused to pressure them to do as desired. “The women said the accused had also offered ₹5 lakh to them for the work. We have also rescued the boy from the house of a relative of Tirath Singh in Mudhal village.”Both the women recorded their statements before a judge in Ajnala court under Section 164 of the CrPC, confessing that they were not raped, the SSP said.The SSP said they have also arrested two of the eight accused —Tirath Singh and Joga Singh. “Raids are on to nab the other accused,” he added. Police have now registered a fresh case against the eight accused under sections 195-A (threatening any person to give false evidence), 295-A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs), 365 (kidnapping), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 506 (criminal intimidation), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/women-were-arm-twisted-to-accuse-amritsar-temple-priest-of-rape-police/story-EfTmpmI1kdJKAJGixu707H.html
29-05-2020||Mumbai||2,598 fresh infections take state tally closer to 60,000||Maharashtra on Thursday inched closer to the 60,000 Covid-19 cases mark as 2,598 fresh infections took the state tally to 59,546. With 85 more fatalities recorded, Maharashtra is also within touching distance of the bleak 2,000 mark for deaths due to the disease. The state has so far seen 1,982 deaths. There are 38,939 active cases in the state.Of the new cases on Thursday, Mumbai recorded 1,467 new infections, while Pune recorded 282 cases and Thane 439. Of the fatalities recorded on Thursday, 38 were in Mumbai, four each in Vasai-Virar and Thane, 10 in Pune, nine in Satara, seven in Solapur, five in Akola, three in Aurangabad, and one each in Raigad, Jalgaon and Nanded.However, the state health department said that of the total deaths reported on Thursday, 37 occurred in the past two days and the remaining 48 deaths are between May 15 and May 25. Out of the 48 deaths, 22 were recorded in Mumbai, five in Solapur, four in Akola, three each in Aurangabad, Satara, Thane and Vasai-Virar, one each in Jalgaon, Nanded, Navi Mumbai, Pune and Raigad.The state government is expecting a surge in the number of cases in the state in the next 10 to 15 days due to the allowances for the movement of people given in the last week. State government officials said the numbers would peak by mid-June. Officials said the reason for the increase would be further lockdown relaxations that would happen after May 31 and with the movement of people in the state, along with those coming into the state.State health minister Rajesh Tope said that the movement of people from red-zone areas into other districts has led to an increase in Covid-19 cases elsewhere in the state. He added that the numbers are expected to surge in the next few days, but expressed confidence in the machinery and measures adopted to keep the spread under control.“[Overall] It is expected that the cases would increase, primarily, due to the movement of people. How long can we keep things under lockdown? With people from Mumbai going into other districts, the number of cases has gone up. For instance, Jalna had a handful of cases [earlier this month]. Today, it has increased to 110. Therefore, in all districts, the testing of people has gone up. We have already strengthened the health infrastructure and other things in these areas. We will have to increase the containment zones in these districts. We are confident that it will be brought under control,” said Tope.Maharashtra has been clocking over 2,000 cases for 11 days straight. After clocking over 3,000 cases on May 24, the cases recorded on May 26 and May 27 were relatively lower at 2,091 and 2,190, respectively. However, state health commissioner Anup Kumar Yadav said, “We do not want to read the data [of last few days]. It may be a temporary decrease. We should not be excited if the numbers go up or go down for two days. The lockdown is opening up. There is movement of people, so there could be an increase in the number of cases.”The state government has started a review and planning for further relaxations on curbs from June 1. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday had already hinted restrictions will be eased on a “trial” basis.Senior bureaucrats said that the guidelines for the lifting of curbs are expected by May 30. A senior bureaucrat said that the government is preparing infrastructure to support the increase in cases once restrictions are further relaxed. He said that the government is going to lift lockdown restrictions after May 31 in a “gradual and calibrated manner”, but Covid-19 cases are bound to go up as this happens. “It is obvious that once further relaxation is provided to people, cases would go up. Our top consideration is to look at the extent and acceleration of the spread in the state,” he said.The state government has also made requests to the Centre to start Mumbai suburban train services to ferry essential services staffers in the civic body. If approved by the Centre, the access points of train stations will be manned and only essential services staff will be allowed to travel in locals that will run in the morning and evening.Meanwhile, 698 people recovered on Thursday, taking the tally of recovered patients to 18,616. The recovery rate in the state is 31.26%, while the mortality rate is at 3.32%. Currently, 6,12,745 people are under home quarantine and 35,122 people are in institutional quarantine, the state health department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2-598-fresh-infections-take-state-tally-closer-to-60-000/story-lXkS0zsHfvIOIBdrd2q2TN.html
29-05-2020||Mumbai||Airoli school rubbishes parents’ demand for stay on fee hike||Several parents of students at VIBGYOR High School, Airoli have raised concerns over the school’s decision of not revoking a fee hike which it had imposed a few months before the Covid-19 outbreak. In a written plea to the school, around 50 parents have demanded that the fee hike be revoked in the light of the current situation. However, the school has refused to revoke their decision.“The school has hiked fees by 8%-10% for each class which we did not object to earlier. But with the current situation wherein people are losing their jobs and getting pay cuts, many parents are finding it difficult to pay the fees, hence we have asked the school to scrap the hike but there is no response from their end yet,” said a parent of a Class 1 student. In a Government Resolution (GR) released in the first week of May, schools have been asked to stay all fee hikes for the academic year 2020-21 and also allow parents to pay fees in instalments. The GR is applicable for all schools in the state irrespective of the board they are affiliated to. Rustom Kerawalla, chairman of VIBGYOR group of schools, said the school had imposed the hike in February and hence did not revoke it. “As a school, we also have a lot of expenditure to take care of like rent, payments to staff members, maintenance etc. However for parents who cannot pay fees due to genuine reasons, we have introduced a scholarship system. They can apply for it and submit the required documentary proof. Such parents would be given some relaxations in fee payments,” he added. Parents, however, said they wanted the school to revoke the hike for everyone. “If fees cannot be reduced, at least they should not be increased,” said another parent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/airoli-school-rubbishes-parents-demand-for-stay-on-fee-hike/story-fHpLCsaXx3wNixZGplvPjJ.html
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||Vij wants tighter curbs on Delhi border||Following a spike in the number of Covid-19 cases in the national capital region (NCR) districts of Haryana, home minister Anil Vij on Thursday sought stringency in free movement of people from Delhi.Top officials said that fresh curbs meant that those who don’t have e-movement passes and don’t fall in the approved category of essential service providers as per the directions of the ministry of home affairs will not be allowed to commute from Delhi to Haryana. “Following relaxations in lockdown 4.0, the to and fro movement of people from Delhi to Haryana had increased. There is a possibility that the authorities in the NCR districts have lowered their guard and are allowing unhindered access,’’ said an official who did not wish to be named.The home minister is learnt to have expressed concern at the rising number of cases in the state due to free movement of people from the national capital.The state government had on May 14 given an undertaking before the Delhi High Court that movement of persons from Delhi to Haryana would be allowed on production of e-passes.These movement passes were to be issued to all persons engaged in providing essential services, including medical professionals, within 30 minutes of the receipt of application.Each e-pass is valid for the entire duration of the lockdown and can be used for multiple visits, the state government had told the HC.The state government had taken a stand before the court that since about 56% of the coronavirus cases in the national capital region (NCR) districts — Gurugram, Faridabad, Jhajjar and Sonepat — had Delhi links, it will allow back and forth movement of medical professionals from Delhi only on production of movement passes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/vij-wants-tighter-curbs-on-delhi-border/story-7YDuZPZbfl11wpmAgTgwxN.html
29-05-2020||City||‘26/11 witness had recovered well, was home for 12 days’||Harishchandra Shrivardhankar, 68, one of the key witnesses in the 26/11 terror attack case, who helped identify terrorist Ajmal Kasab, suffered a cardiac arrest and died at his house in Kalyan on Tuesday.“His helping nature and concern for others are what we miss when he is no more with us. He had recovered from his illness and was home with us for around 12 days before he died of cardiac arrest,” said his eldest son Mangesh Shrivardhankar, 42.On November 26, 2008, Shrivardhankar was shot twice in the back by Pakistani terrorists Kasab and his accomplice Abu Ismail outside Cama Hospital. According to a 2010 HT report, he went on to become one of the main witnesses who deposed before the special court.HT had reported on May 5 how Shrivardhankar, who was found lying helpless on the footpath near a shop at Saat Rasta in Chinchpokli on April 29, was reunited with his family by the store owner, Dean D’Souza and his friends on May 1.“Our local doctor who checked him said it was a cardiac arrest. We had just bought him home from the hospital on May 15 as doctors said he had recovered. He was also talking properly. We had maintained a proper diet for him,” said Mangesh.“Even after the attack, he resumed his work with the food and civil supplies department and continued for one year till his retirement. He used to talk about the incident to his colleagues a lot. He recollected the attack all the time and that somehow may have affected him mentally,” said Mangesh.When Shrivardhankar was reunited with his family on May 1, his health condition had deteriorated, he had a leg injury and hardly spoke. According to his family, he used to suffer from memory loss and had left home earlier in March. At the time, his family has lodged a missing person complaint at the Khadakpada police station in Kalyan (West).“Like every day he went down to roam in our locality. He used to often meet his friends after retirement. That day he didn’t return and we kept searching. He was a social person who loved helping others, meeting people, and also reach out to those in help,” said Mangesh.After he was found in Chinchpokli and returned home, local corporator Daya Gaikwad helped the family get ₹10 lakh aid for Shrivandhankar’s treatment from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis had also visited him at the hospital in Kalyan and announced monetary help from the party.Shrivardhankar is survived by his wife, two sons, and a daughter.“We have received a cheque from the party which is yet to clear. We are grateful to all those who came forward to help us in our difficult times,” said Mangesh. “It gives us immense relief that we could look after him for some days before he left us. During his missing period he suffered a leg injury which was also treated at the hospital,” he added.Gaikwad, who attended his final rites, said, “The monetary help which was announced by the party will be given. They come from a middle-class family and the money will definitely help them. We are glad that at least we could take care of the braveheart for a few days.”Former mayor of Kalyan, Rajendra Deolekar, who also attended the rituals, said, “His nature of helping the others and his bravery will also remain in our hearts. He has set an example for others. Being a common man, he took all the risks and fought for the country.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/26-11-witness-had-recovered-well-was-home-for-12-days/story-LR3VKm4N9BmyBIKvfO7DyL.html
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||Justice SN Satyanarayana takes oath as Punjab and Haryana HC judge||Justice SN Satyanarayana took oath as judge of Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday. He was transferred from Karnataka high court in March, but his joining got delayed due to the covid-19 outbreak. Chief justice RS Jha administered the oath to him by at a ceremony at high court premises, attended only by administrative committee of the court, in view of the covid-19 outbreak. Justice Satyanarayana was the second senior-most judge at the Karnataka high court after the chief justice and here will be at number 7. Born on January 15, 1959, he enrolled as advocate on April 22, 1983 at Bengaluru and took up civil as well as criminal cases. He was appointed as an additional judge of the Karnataka high court on June 9, 2008 and a permanent judge on June 8, 2012. The number of judges at the Punjab and Haryana high court is now 56, including the chief justice, against the sanctioned strength of 85.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/justice-sn-satyanarayana-takes-oath-as-punjab-and-haryana-hc-judge/story-OoL32NazKpnSDlKQSaNygO.html
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana sees biggest single-day spike with 123 new Covid cases||Haryana on Thursday registered 123 fresh Covid-19 cases, biggest single-day spike, and one death in Gurugram. Sixty-eight of the new cases were detected in Gurugram alone. The state’s case count now stands at 1,504, while the death toll is 19. A CRPF man, a 10-year-old girl, a multi-purpose health worker and a nursing officer posted at a Delhi hospital were among the infected persons.Even on Wednesday, there was a steep spike of 76 new cases in the state, while one person had died in Faridabad. Health minister Anil Vij has also expressed concern over the rising number of infections in the districts surrounding Delhi. “Cases in the national capital and districts of Haryana around it are rising daily and it is certainly alarming,” Vij said. Gurugram reported 68 cases, Faridabad 18, Sonepat six, Karnal, Kurukshetra and Rohtak five each, Hisar and Kaithal four each, Sirsa three, Fatehabad two and Panipat, Charkhi Dadri and Yamunanagar one each, the bulletin said.Among the five fresh cases in Karnal were the 10-year-old girl besides an 80-year-old woman and three persons in their 30s. The Kurukshetra patients included the multi-purpose health worker, a patient who had returned from Delhi, a 27-year-old man who came back from Chennai and an ice-cream vendor with travel history to Rajasthan. In Sonepat, the new patients comprised the 36-year-old woman, who is working as a nursing officer at a Delhi hospital, besides a cobbler who works in Delhi. Mahendergarh civil surgeon Dr Ashok Kumar said the district has reported three new Covid cases that included a CRPF man, who had recently come from Jammu and Kashmir. Two women, one of them pregnant, tested positive in Yamunanagar and Ambala. The pregnant woman belongs to Dappar village of Punjab’s Mohali and had gone to Ambala for her delivery. Though five new cases were reported each in Rohtak and Dadri districts, the state bulletin mention only one. The Rohtak cases included a cancer patient of Bhaisru Khurd village, a youth and his mother of Kacha Beri Road and another youth of Chawla Colony besides an ANM posted at Meham. Dadri deputy civil surgeon Dr Chanchal Tomar said all five patients, including four members of a family, had Gurugram links.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-sees-biggest-single-day-spike-with-123-new-covid-cases/story-xjdZahV8A76buUNlhvQcPL.html
29-05-2020||City||Ganeshotsav to be toned down this year||The Thane District Ganeshotsav Coordination Committee, the apex body of Ganeshotsav mandals in Thane district, has chalked out several guidelines for the festival, taking into account the Covid pandemic. The 10-day festival will start on August 22.The organisers have been told not to organise a procession for idol installation or immersion and not more than five people will be allowed inside the pandal at a time.Sameer Sawant, president of Thane district Ganeshotsav coordination committee, said, “The celebrations will be toned down this year. We will not organise any of the usual festivities. The mandals will not be allowed to hold a procession while installing or immersing idols. Not more than five people will be allowed inside the pandal at a time. Each pandal will have hand sanitisers and thermal scanners at the entrance. Wearing masks and gloves will be compulsory inside pandals.”The organisers will also have to ensure that only six people will be present to perform the aarti in the pandal. There will not be any social or cultural event. Sawant added, “The pandals will also be sanitised and disinfected twice a day. There will not be any audio-visual decorations. The money from devotees will be donated to hospitals or be used for medical purpose. Our aim is to keep the tradition alive while abiding by the safety guidelines of the state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ganeshotsav-to-be-toned-down-this-year/story-BYfO0pfy1IJExEuPzQYvtK.html
29-05-2020||City||Pregnant woman dies in Mumbra after hospitals refuse to admit her||A 28-year-old woman, who was six months pregnant, died in Mumbra on Tuesday, after several hospitals refused to admit her.Around 12.30pm when Asma Banu started getting breathless, her husband took her to Burhani hospital in Mumbra.“An X-Ray showed an infection in the chest and they asked us to take her to Kalwa hospital. When we reached there around 5.15pm, a nurse told us that they cannot admit my wife,” said Maulana Sayyad Akbar Mehdi Sahab, 38.Sahab put her in an autorickshaw and went from one hospital to another. “I first took her to Kalsekar Hospital, which refused to admit her saying it is a Covid hospital. I took her to three other private hospitals in Mumbra, but in vain. Her health was deteriorating. Finally, I sought help from a social worker to get her admitted to Kalsekar.”He alleged that Kalsekar hospital staff misbehaved with them. “After much pleading and political pressure, the hospital agreed to admit her. But, she was no more.”Her death certificate says she died of Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS) with suspected Covid.The couple has a six-year-old son.“Kalsekar Hospital could have at least given her basic treatment. Moreover, my wife died at 7.45pm and they released the body around 2am,” said Sahab.Civic-run Kalwa hospital cannot reject emergency patients. Pratibha Sawant, the hospital dean, said, “I am not aware of the incident. However, if it was a suspected Covid case, we did not have a vacant bed in the isolation ward and we cannot admit a suspected Covid patient in the general ward. The staff might have refused admission.”The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) said they have got many such complaints and have sent show-cause notices to 78 private hospitals in Mumbra, Kausa, Kalwa and Diva.RT Kendre, health officer of TMC, said, “There is no rule which says that an emergency patient cannot be admitted in any of the private hospitals if they have not been tested for Covid. Every hospital is supposed to admit and treat patients. If the private hospitals are at fault, action will be taken.”Kendre said Kalsekar is a Covid hospital and cannot admit suspected or non-Covid patients.Dr Afreen Saudagar, chief executive officer of Kalsekar, said, “The patient came to Kalsekar around 4pm. We could not admit her as this is a Covid hospital and the woman being pregnant could get infected if she was not Covid positive. Our other beds were full. They came back around 7.30pm, but the patient’s health was deteriorating.”Saudagar said there was no pulse, her saturation level was 30% and there was no respiratory rate. “We put her on a ventilator but she died. Her chest X-ray showed signs of Covid infection so we could not release the body without following the protocol,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pregnant-woman-dies-in-mumbra-after-hospitals-refuse-to-admit-her/story-nKhKd40t4WNAnS8kkl4TPL.html
29-05-2020||Mumbai||Governor cuts down expenses of Raj Bhavan||In the wake of the financial crisis owing to lockdown restrictions, Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Thursday announced austerity measures to cut down expenses of Raj Bhavan and save 10-15% budget of the current financial year.The governor has ordered that no new capital works will be undertaken at Raj Bhavan. “There will not be any new major construction or repair works at Raj Bhavan. Only ongoing works will be continued and completed,” said a statement issued by Raj Bhavan on Thursday. The Independence Day reception to be held every year on August 15 at Raj Bhavan in Pune has been cancelled. The governor has deferred any new recruitment at Raj Bhavan until further orders. He has also deferred purchase of a new car. Further, the practice of offering gifts or mementos to VVIPs has been discontinued until further order. Also, the practice of welcoming VIP visitors with bouquets has been stopped and guesthouse rooms in Raj Bhavan will not be decorated with vases and flower pots, the order stated.The governor has directed to conduct meetings and interactions with vice-chancellors of all universities through video-conference to avoid expenses on travel.The financial crisis has led the state government to declare a 67% cut in its spending on development works this fiscal year, in view of the estimated revenue losses of more than ₹40,000 crore in March and April 2020 owing to the Covid-19 outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/governor-cuts-down-expenses-of-raj-bhavan/story-RFKb8ENgxbaFIhiZ246DhL.html
29-05-2020||Mumbai||Hundreds from Maharashtra still stuck in UAE||Despite several flights under the Vande Bharat Mission, hundreds of people from Maharashtra residing in different cities and districts including Mumbai and Pune are stuck in Abu Dhabi and Dubai. While many flights were arranged under Vande Bharat Mission to India from the United Arab Emirates (UAE), several who are still there complain that no flights from UAE are being flown to any airports in Maharashtra except for the flights to Mumbai Airport via Hyderabad flown recently.The majority of flights that have been planned from UAE are for Kerala and Andhra Pradesh. Only a few were planned for Maharashtra, those wanting to return home said. Many have lost their jobs due to the lockdown and are finding it difficult to survive there. Amay Shirke, a resident of Badlapur who works in Dubai, said, “I was working a technician with a private company, but due to a medical emergency I have to be back to India with my parents. There are no flights since the past two months for Mumbai or to any other airports in Maharashtra. I hardly have any money with me now.”Shrike added, “There are flights to Kerala, Telangana and other states, but no flights for going to Maharashtra. I am compelled to take financial help from my family instead of providing them with financial assistance to extended stay here. There could be close to 1,000 here from Maharashtra. I request the government to arrange special flights for us.”Kripa Shah, another Mumbaiite who works in Dubai, said, “I came to UAE on March 16 as I got a job near Dubai. I have a medical emergency and I need to be back to India for the treatment.”An email sent to the Indian Embassy in Abu Dhabi remained unanswered till the time of going to the press. However, the Embassy in reply to a tweet by those stuck in UAE from Maharashtra said, “We have already taken up the matter regarding special flights to Mumbai and are awaiting approvals.”Sunita Yadav, another resident of Mumbai, said, “I have lost my job almost three months ago, and have no money to survive. I also have an infection on my tooth for which I require treatment, but the treatment here is costly compared to Mumbai, and I cannot afford the same.” Meanwhile, Spruha Gaikar said, “I am 32 weeks pregnant, and want to go to Mumbai for my delivery considering the hospitalisation is very costly here.”In Mumbai, so far, over 2,000 passengers have arrived from international destinations under the mission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hundreds-from-maharashtra-still-stuck-in-uae/story-5NCUXBw85SFppMLAGQed4H.html
29-05-2020||City||KDMC issues fresh guidelines for residents||Kalyan-Dombivli municipal commissioner Vijay Suryavanshi has appealed to asymptomatic patients to isolate themselves at home till the civic body sends an ambulance to take them to a quarantine centre.The civic body chief released a set of instructions for residents to follow. “If a person is tests positive for Covid-19 and does not have any symptoms, the person should not go to hospital on his own. The person should self-isolate till the ambulance comes,” said Suryavanshi.Last week, a 26-year-old man from Dombivli, who tested positive, walked to the hospital as there was a delay in the ambulance coming to pick him up.“The residents of a housing society where a positive case is found should not panic,” said Suryavanshi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kdmc-issues-fresh-guidelines-for-residents/story-PvvGw6A0mWwX2HPUVmYO9H.html
29-05-2020||City||Rate for Covid test at private labs reduced||With the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) removing the price cap on Covid swab tests, the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has reduced the rates of Covid testing in all private labs. The rates are reduced from ₹4,500 to ₹3,000 after a meeting held with the lab representatives and the corporation. TMC wanted the rates to decrease to ₹2,000, however, after a day-long meeting the rates were fixed at ₹3,000.On Tuesday, ICMR removed the price cap of ₹4,500 for real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test which is used to detect Covid-19. Now, the states have been given a free hand to negotiate with the approved list of laboratories and fix the cost. The decision was taken as testing capacity and infrastructure have improved significantly while the dependence on imported kits has also become negligible because of an increase in domestic production.A TMC official said, “We had send them a letter asking to reduce the rates, however the labs were not ready to reduce the rates. On Thursday a meeting was held with the labs and the labs were also kept shut for the day. We have convinced them to reduce the rates.”Civic commissioner Vijay Singhal has confirmed that the rates have been reduced from ₹4,500 to ₹3,000 for testing in any of the private labs in Thane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rate-for-covid-test-at-private-labs-reduced/story-FS3aJEjfG2pKBC6uztxxSL.html
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||Op Bluestar anniv: Police doing all to avoid gathering at Akal Takht||Keeping in view the history of clashes at Akal Takht on anniversaries of Operation Bluestar, police are doing all they can to prevent an untoward incident on June 6.On Thursday, cops manning the barricades near the Golden Temple were asking the devotees to visit the shrine after the anniversary. “Ghallughara diwas to baad ayo (come after holocaust day)” was what one of the devotees was told by a cop.Police personnel said they had special instructions from seniors to prevent the gathering inside the shrine till the Operation Bluestar anniversary. “We are apprehending that members of some Sikh bodies may gather inside the shrine in advance. Actually, we want to prevent any untoward incident. Secondly, gathering is violation of the Covid-19 guidelines. So, we are taking these measures. However, we are letting peole go who have genuine reason to visit the shrine,” said a cop.Kanwaljit Singh, a professor in a college, said he was denied entry three-four days ago and had to enter the shrine through an uncommon narrow street. Manpreet Singh and Harpreet Singh, who visit the shrine daily to do ‘sewa’ of washing the stretch from Darshani Deori to sanctum sanctorum, said they have passes issued by the SGPC authorities, but for last 3-4 days, their passes are not being considered by the cops deployed outside the entrances of the shrine. Commissioner of police Sukhchain Singh Gill said, “Many days are left for the anniversary yet and only lockdown is the reason behind preventing the gathering inside the shrine. We are waiting for the further decision of the governments about the lockdown.”When told cops telling the devotees about the anniversary, he said, “This is only a tact to send them back. Otherwise these words are not relevant here.”SGPC employees and pro-Khalistan activists were caught in bloody clashes in recent years on June 6. A senior official in the intelligence wing of the police said they want this anniversary to pass off peacefully.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/op-bluestar-anniv-police-doing-all-to-avoid-gathering-at-akal-takht/story-yC9kF5HxfecbT4WBk9gSTM.html
29-05-2020||Mumbai||Another constable succumbs to Covid; Mumbai Police toll is 14||A 52-year-old head constable from Malwani police station died due to Covid-19 at a hospital in Kandivli (West) on Thursday afternoon, taking the total death toll in Mumbai Police to 14. This is the first death to be reported from north region of the Mumbai Police, which comprises of areas from Goregaon to Dahisar and have reported comparatively less cases than other regions. Jagdeo Kalapad, senior inspector of Malwani police station, confirmed the development. The deceased, who continued to work despite being above 50 years as he reportedly did not have health issues, had been given general and patrolling duty. On May 18, the head constable had high fever and stopped reporting to duty and was subsequently admitted to Shivam hospital in Kandivali (W) on May 20. However, he took the Covid test at Sir JJ Hospital only on May 27, seven days after he fell sick. His result for Covid-19 came positive on Thursday and he died soon after around 3pm.The deceased constable’s wife too has contracted the disease and is undergoing treatment. The constable has two daughters, who have also been tested for Covid-19. “Two more officers and five to six constables from Malwani police station have contracted the virus. We are going to quarantine more constables after this incident. We may have to seal the police station,” said a police officer from Malwani police station. A total of 1,303 Mumbai Police personnel have tested positive till Thursday night. Of the infected personnel, 395 have been discharged after recovery. Another 4,448 cops have been quarantined. Pranaya Ashok, DCP (ops) and spokesperson for Mumbai Police, confirmed the development.Cases in state police cross 2,000 markThe number of police personnel in the 2 lakh strong Maharashtra Police force infected by Covid-19 stood at 2,095 on Thursday.Of the 2,095 personnel infected, 1,859 are from the constabulary while 236 are of the rank of sub-inspectors and above. The force has seen 23 of its men succumb to the virus. Around 6,000 police personnel who came in touch with those infected have been quarantined.Wednesday saw 131 new cases of Covid-19 being reported among the state force’s personnel. “But the fear the virus had created initially has gone now,” said a senior IPS officer, requesting anonymity. To date 897 personnel have recovered after being infected with the virus. “The initial days saw a lot of panic in the ranks. But now men have understood that if their immune system is strong, the virus will not affect them in an adverse manner. Young officers are more than willing to work,” said Vinayak Deshmukh, assistant inspector general of police (law and order).Deshmukh confirmed the number of cases and said, “To ensure we do not face operational issues due to manpower crunch, we have taken help from 10,000 personnel of the home guard. We had also asked for 20 companies comprising of around 1,200 personnel of the Central Armed Police Force (CRPF), Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), and Rapid Action Force (RAF). We have got 10 companies till now who have been posted strategically across the state.”As a precautionary measure, Maharashtra Police has allowed all personnel aged above 55 years and those above 50 with health issues, to stay at home. Those who have volunteered to work have only been assigned administrative posts where it has been ensured that they have very less or no contact with people.87 booked, 72 arrested for lockdown violations on Wednesday The Mumbai Police booked 87 people in 22 FIRs and arrested 72 of them for violating lockdown rules on Wednesday. Of the 22 FIRs, 18 were for gathering in public and the rest were for not wearing masks. A maximum of 14 FIRs were from the central region and west region, which cover the worst-affected parts of Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/another-constable-succumbs-to-covid-mumbai-police-toll-is-14/story-RkrhLv6iSI3sh1Xaa3XPwI.html
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||SGPC to install Balbir Singh Senior’s portrait at Golden Temple||The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) on Thursday resolved to install portrait of legendry hockey player Balbir Singh Senior who passed away on May 25, at Central Sikh Museum at Golden Temple.SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal said Balbir Singh is great inspiration for the young generation of the Sikhs.“We want the Sikh youths to get inspired by Balbir Singh,” said Longowal in a press release issued here.Taking serious note of the quarantining those evacuated from other countries through special flights under Vande Bharat Mission in the hotels where all services are paid, the SGPC president said: “The government should put them under quarantine at serais of the gurdwaras where all kind of facilities are available on free of cost. If they stay at the serais, the SGPC won’t let them face any problem.” Longowal disclosed that the SGPC would also write to civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri to address the issue of costly tickets of the flights being operated to evacuate the Indians stranded in other countries due to lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sgpc-to-install-balbir-singh-senior-s-portrait-at-golden-temple/story-vvRfeizL7c3bkuXYZAQhRI.html
29-05-2020||Noida||GB Nagar sent over 1 lakh migrants home on 59 trains in last 12 days||The Gautam Budh Nagar district administration has ensured the safe return of over one lakh migrant labourers and their families to their home towns, in the last 12 days. In all, 59 Shramik Special trains, bound for various states, departed from different railway stations in the district during their period.Gautam Budh Nagar police commissioner Alok Singh said till Wednesday, 80,200 migrant labourers working in the district have been safely sent to their respective home towns in Bihar, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh and eastern Uttar Pradesh. “Besides them, around 20,000 minors have also gone home with their parents and relatives. We ensured their safe departure on 59 trains, bound to different places in these states,” he said. The police chief further said around 25,000 migrant workers, who hailed from Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan and were working in the district, have also been sent by buses to their native places. “We used advanced app-based technology to create a database of these workers and their families. After getting a requisition from them, each one of them was sent messages on their mobile phones confirming them a seat on the train and mentioning the departure station, train name and destination,” he said. Singh also said to ensure that these workers reached stations on time, the administration arranged buses from 12 different locations in Noida and Greater Noida. “One person was assigned to oversee passengers in each train coach and that person had to prepare the full details of passengers in that coach. The database had also been sent to the district administration of the destinations of these trains. It will help them to locate everyone, and track the contact list of any passenger found Covid-19 positive,” he said.He also said before boarding, every passenger was screened and sanitized. “The passengers were also been provided meals and drinking water for their trips. The railways have extended their full support, and will provide additional trains if required,” he said.Singh also said around 16,000 more workers are registered to return to their villages. “But, with the resumption of commercial activities in the district, which have provided many with job opportunities again, most of them are now not willing to go back. This is a good sign from the viewpoint of the economic development of the district, which had come to a standstill for almost two months. We, however, are contacting each of them. If they would like to go, the trains are ready to take them to their desired destinations. One train can cater to around 2,000 passengers,” the police chief said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gb-nagar-sent-over-1-lakh-migrants-home-on-59-trains-in-last-12-days/story-n3Jo2IOt0k9ySjC9NtIacL.html
29-05-2020||City||Ludhiana police collects Rs 1.6L in fines for not wearing masks||The Ludhiana police have collected fines to the tune of ₹1.6 lakh from 841 persons caught without a mask in public places, in the first six days of the fourth phase of the lockdown.Apart from this, they have issued challans to 1,300 people for venturing out after 7pm, lodged FIRs against 236 violators and fined 73 people for spitting in the open.Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said two people have been booked for violating quarantine.The police also impounded 340 vehicles of lockdown violators during the period. The fines for not wearing masks and spitting are Rs 200 and Rs 100 respectively.As per the guidelines, shops have been allowed to open from 7am to 6pm and vehicles are allowed on the roads till 7pm.Police teams have been deputed at various points of the city for taking action against the violators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fines-worth-1-68l-slapped-on-841-for-not-wearing-masks-in-ludhiana/story-7LAfXvBKHJdPEcV9X60hQN.html
29-05-2020||Delhi||Cases on rise, Delhi govt reviews hospital admission criteria||With almost 26% of all active Covid-19 cases in Delhi admitted to designated hospitals, the city government is reviewing the criteria for admissions, to ensure there are enough beds for severely ill patients.Delhi’s hospital admission rate is nearly four times the national average of 6.39%, according to the latest available figures, from last week. In Delhi, 2.3% of the active cases are admitted to the intensive care units of the city and 0.36% on ventilators. This is lower than the national average of 3% in intensive and 0.45% on ventilators.“The government is reviewing the admission criteria to ensure that there are beds available for the sick patients,” said a doctor aware of the matter. Delhi recorded 1,024 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday alone.According to the Delhi government’s guidelines, those with mild symptoms like fever and upper respiratory tract infection have to either be in home isolation or be admitted to Covid Care Centres if the former is not possible.Those with moderate symptoms like high-grade fever, respiratory rate between 15 and 30 breaths per minute (normal is between 12 to 20 breaths per minute), or oxygen saturation between 90 and 94% (normal is 95 to 100%) have to be admitted to Covid Health Centres, which have increased monitoring and health care facilities than Care Centres.Those with severe symptoms — respiratory rate higher than 30 and oxygen saturation lower than 90% — have to be admitted to the dedicated hospitals.Of the 8,470 active cases in Delhi, 2,196 are in hospital.“Almost all of our beds are full. Now, when the number of cases go up with the easing of lockdown, we have to start discharging the mild cases to make space for those with severe symptoms,” said Dr Balvinder Singh, medical superintendent of Safdarjung hospital.The designated private hospitals in the city are currently running at around 86% of their capacity on average, whereas government hospitals on average have utilised 61% of their capacity.Around 50% of active cases in Delhi are in home isolation.“We follow the criteria while referring patients to government sector hospitals or Covid Care Centres, but people can choose private hospitals, so even though many might not need admission they can get it,” said a district official, on condition of anonymity.In preparation for a surge in the number of cases, Delhi government has designated 1,500 beds to treat Covid-19 in Guru Teg Bahadur hospital. Another 2,000 paid beds have been added, by asking 117 private hospitals in the city to reserve 20% of its beds for the treatment of Covid-19 patients.“The number of admissions in the city are driven up by people who do not have enough space at homes or live with the old and those with comorbidities and hence request to get admitted in the hospitals. This is mostly because they do not want to go to the government isolation centres for mild cases, hospitals have much better facilities,” said Dr Neeraj Gupta from the department of respiratory medicine at Safdarjung hospital.“If there is a surge in the number of cases — which is now likely to happen — the services at the hospitals have to be optimised to admit only those with severe symptoms and other risk factors who actually need admission. What is happening in Maharashtra now can very well happen in Delhi,” he said.HT had on Monday reported that hospitals in Maharashtra’s capital Mumbai were struggling to cope with the influx of Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cases-on-rise-delhi-govt-reviews-hospital-admission-criteria/story-31wSoqTXRoQxGjbgxjqP2I.html
29-05-2020||Delhi||Covid: As bodies pile up in Delhi, govt allows use of wood for cremation||Beginning Thursday, four crematoriums run by the civic bodies in Delhi have started using wood to dispose of bodies of Covid-19 confirmed and suspected patients, officials confirmed. The move was necessitated because only two of the six CNG-run furnaces were running and bodies of Covid patients were piling up with crematoriums returning them because they were unable to take the load. Using wood for the cremation of bodies of Covid-19 patients was not allowed earlier for the fear of possible spread of the infection. HT had reported on Thursday how with only two CNG furnaces working, bodies were piling at the designated Covid-19 mortuary of the Lok Nayak hospital. Inside the mortuary, there are 108 bodies. All 80 storage racks are full and there are 28 bodies on the floor, piled on top of each other.Officials on Thursday said a third furnace was fixed on Wednesday night. Staff at the Nigambodh Ghat -- a crematorium on the banks of Yamuna -- said it will take them at least two months to repair the other three furnaces.As on Thursday, Delhi had recorded 16,281 Covid-19 cases and 316 deaths; 7,495 persons have been discharged/recovered.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageOn Wednesday, the North Delhi Municipal Corporation -- the nodal agency for managing cremations of Covid-19 patients -- directed four crematoriums in Kardardooma, Nigambodh Ghat, Rani Jhansi Road and Punjabi Bagh to use wood for funeral rites.The order marked to the South and the East municipal bodies signed by the North civic body’s health officer, a copy of which HT has seen, said that preference must be given to use of the CNG furnace. At the Rani Jhansi crematorium, which has started taking bodies of confirmed and suspected Covid-19 cases after the order, the authorities have been strict about the gathering. Until Thursday evening, 15 bodies were cremated using wood. Sultan Singh, the in-charge of the crematorium, said, “We have just started dealing with Covid-19 cases. We allow only one member of the family near the body to light the pyre. Even that one relative has to wear mask and take other precautions. The priests handling such bodies also wear masks and gloves. Nobody opens the body that is wrapped in a personal protective equipment suit. It is directly kept on top of a pile of wood and covered for the final rites. There is no contact with the body. It is a new thing for us. We are following the government’s orders.”Until Wednesday evening, the bodies of Covid-19 patients and suspected Covid-19 patients were being taken to the electric crematoriums at Nigambodh Ghat and Punjabi Bagh. Besides these, the bodies are being sent to four burial grounds in ITO, Mangolpuri, Madanpur Khadar and Shastri Park. Suman Gupta, of the Nigambodh Ghat Sanchalan Samiti, said by Thursday evening, they had cremated 15 bodies using wood and five in the CNG furnace. “We are worried but what can we do if the government refuses to listen. There are rows of bodies cremated through the wood in the open. We are worried about the smoke. It could be dangerous. The lives of our 70 workers and 100 priests are at risk. The cremation in the CNG furnace was controlled and happened in an isolated section. Outsiders were not allowed inside. Now the Covid-19 bodies are being cremated in the open, sometimes side by side too. We are only doing it because of the government’s orders.”Experts said cremating bodies of Covid-19 patients using wood is completely safe.Dr Sudhir Gupta, professor and head of the department of forensic medicine and toxicology, AIIMS, said, “It is perfectly safe to dispose of the body through the wood-based method. The temperature maintained is the same as that of the CNG furnace. One must follow the guidelines that the government has issued such as not coming in contact with the body, wearing masks and gloves. The precautions that one adopts at the CNG furnace must be adopted in the wood-based system too.”The mayor of the North Delhi civic body, Avtar Singh, too said the process is safe and approved by the central government. “Cremating bodies using wood is not harmful. It is being done to clear the backlog and expedite cremations. We adopted the process so that the families of those who died do not have to wait for days for the final rites,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-as-bodies-pile-up-in-delhi-govt-allows-use-of-wood-for-cremation/story-8TfW1Gp9LoGMDgVJhXLZwM.html
29-05-2020||Delhi||NDMC headquarters sealed for 48 hours after 6 test Covid positive in 24 hours||The New Delhi Municipal Council’s (NDMC) headquarters — Palika Kendra, located near Connaught Place — was on Thursday sealed for 48 hours after six people in the building tested positive for Covid-19 in 24 hours. All the staff have been asked to work from home for two days until the building is completely sanitised.According to NDMC official, as many as six employees — including a joint director-level official — have tested Covid-19 positive in the last 24 hours. The administration has ordered a sanitisation drive in the building three times a day and contact tracing of all patients.“On Wednesday, the sixth floor of the building was sealed after three employees tested Covid-19 positive. Later that day, three more staffers tested positive, prompting the decision to seal the headquarter building for 48 hours so that it could be sanitised properly,” a district administration official said.The official said that those who were in close contact with the infected employees have been directed to home quarantine. “The sampling can only be done after they start showing symptoms of Covid. The employees, for now, have been instructed to report to district administration officials in case they show any symptoms,” the administration official said.In the last two months, as many as nine officials and employees of NDMC have tested Covid-19 positive. Last week, the civic body had shut its Palika dispensary — located in the NDMC headquarters — after a doctor working there had tested positive for the virusAccording to NDMC officials, the 21-floor Palika Kendra building houses around 24 departments of the municipality. As many as 3,000 NDMC staff work in the building—including the NDMC chairman and secretary s.“Alternate arrangement has been made to operate the control and command centre from some other place for 48 hours. Security offices and server rooms will be opened on Saturday, while the building will be completely reopened again only on Monday,” an NDMC official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ndmc-headquarters-sealed-for-48-hours-after-2-more-staff-test-covid-positive/story-5IbPq2lPp61x45q4MmkC9I.html
29-05-2020||Delhi||High court asks govt, 3 municipal corps for status of Delhi’s burial grounds||The Delhi high court on Thursday issued notices to the city government and the three municipal corporations directing them to apprise the court of the status of the Capital’s crematoriums and burial grounds of the city. The high court filed a PIL and quoted Hindustan Times’ May 28 report that detailed how all 80 storage racks at Lok Nayak hospital’s Covid-19 mortuary were full and 28 bodies were on the floor. The Court also quoted on how eight bodies were returned from Nigambodh Ghat on Tuesday because the facility was not in a position to accept more bodies, as only two of the three CNG furnaces were working and that bodies of those who had died five days ago were yet to be cremated.The court noted that the state of affairs, if true, was ‘”highly dissatisfactory and violative of the rights of the dead.”“We thus take suo moto cognizance of the aforesaid violations of human rights and by this order bring the same to the notice of the Chief Justice, to take up the aforesaid matter in public interest, for issuing requisite directions,” the court said.The matter will now be heard on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/high-court-asks-govt-3-municipal-corps-for-status-of-delhi-s-burial-grounds/story-ewzrWP77X4H2DVnfLcP7QN.html
29-05-2020||Delhi||In a first, Delhi colour codes its containment zones; to ramp up surveillance, testing||The Delhi government has categorised containment zones in the city into red, orange and green so that regular follow-ups in terms of surveillance, house-to-house health checks and testing continue in a systematic way, said a senior government official.On Thursday, Delhi had 58 containment zones marked red. These are the ones in which Covid cases are surfacing frequently. As many as 36 were marked orange -- areas in which no fresh Covid case has been reported for the last 14 days. And, 49 green zones which used to be containment zones but containment efforts were scaled down after no fresh case was recorded there for 21 days, said a report prepared by the Delhi government which HT has seen.There were 94 containment zones in the city, as on Thursday. Delhi’s chief secretary Vijay Dev said, “It’s a good sign that 85 containment zones in Delhi are today Covid-free or are approaching that stage (classified orange and green), compared to 58 zones that are still marked red. It shows that the strategy of containment zones has proved effective. Concerted action is being taken by the district administrations for ensuring that no more positive cases recur in orange and red zones so that they become green and orange within the prescribed timelines.”While the government had prepared a heatmap of containment zones with the help of Geospatial Delhi Limited (GSDL) – its own subsidiary which applies analytical tools for mapping and data crunching – it prepared its first colour-coded report, on a pilot basis, on Wednesday. It recorded 91 containment zones – 51 Red and 40 Orange. The number of Green zones was 45.Within the next 24 hours, containment efforts were scaled down in four areas but seven areas were notified as new containment zones. So, the total number increased by three, government records showed.A senior government official said with Thursday’s assessment of the zones being done, the district magistrates have been directed to further streamline their efforts from Friday under the SHIELD initiative to ensure the reds change into oranges and the oranges change into green at the earliest. “The initiative has been immensely effective and the numbers show the results,” the official added.The SHIELD initiative of the Delhi government translates to the sealing of the area, home quarantine of all residents, isolation and tracing of contacts, essentials to be supplied at doorstep, local sanitisation and door-to-door health checks.The issue of nomenclature Initially, there was confusion regarding nomenclature. The central government had the sole authority to categorise red, orange and green zones across states. Under the central guidelines, all revenue districts in Delhi were marked red, leading to limited relaxations that could be implemented across the city-state in terms of business and commerce activities and public transport during the lockdown.Within Delhi, however, the city government used the nomenclature red zone for all containment zones and there were no orange or green zones as such. With the onset of the fourth phase of the nationwide lockdown on May 18, the union government allowed the state governments to determine red, orange and green zones on their own.On May 20, following a meeting between Delhi’s lieutenant governor (L-G) Anil Baijal and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal the Delhi government had issued directions to the health department to come up with a plan on red, range and green zones.Jugal Kishore, head of community medicines department in Safdarjung Hospital said, “After such categorisation, the government must ensure that surveillance teams continue to be active for all three categories of containment zones and that there are medical teams to guide them. They can consider using trained volunteers from within communities to monitor the efficiency of the surveillance and testing mechanism. And rapid action teams should continue to be active in data collection of contact tracing and surveillance, their analysis and interpretation, and guide the government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-a-first-delhi-colour-codes-its-containment-zones-to-ramp-up-surveillance-testing/story-r55KDalct9fGHjxw0tnjGM.html
29-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi Police file 12 more charge sheets against foreigners in Jamaat case||Delhi Police on Thursday filed 12 charge sheets against 541 foreign members of the Tablighi Jamaat who attended a congregation organised by the Islamic missionary group at its Nizamuddin headquarters in March. This is the third consecutive day charge sheets have been filed against foreigners in the case for violating visa conditions and Covid-19 lockdown rules, taking the total number indicted to 915. The charge sheets filed on Thursday against foreigners from three countries ran into more than 12,000 pages, and were submitted before the duty magistrate in the Saket court. In the same case, between Tuesday and Wednesday, 35 charge sheets were filed in the same court against 374 foreigners belonging to 34 different countries. The court is to decide on the cognisance of the charge sheets on June 25. The 47 charge sheets filed in the three days run into 40,908 pages.The 915 foreigners have all been booked under Section 14 (b) of the Foreigners Act, Section 3 of the Epidemic Disease Act, Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act and four sections (188, 269, 270 and 271) of the Indian Penal Code for violating visa conditions, lockdown rules, spreading the virus, and breaking quarantine rules, the police said.“The Central government has already blacklisted them and cancelled their visas, as all of them arrived in India on tourist visas but indulged in missionary activities , which is illegal and against the visa manuals,” said Delhi Police spokesperson Mandeep Singh Randhawa.Randhawa said of the 541 foreigners charge-sheeted on Thursday, 414 are from Indonesia, 85 from Kyrgyzstan and 42 belong to Malaysia.The crime branch had filed a criminal case against Tablighi Jamaat chief Maulana Saad and six other top officials of the organisation on March 31 for defying a series of government directives, which curbed religious and large gatherings to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the national capital.More than 2,300 people, including foreigners, were evacuated from the Tablighi Jamaat headquarters in March-end and lodged in quarantine facilities in Delhi by the authorities. The headquarters, known as the Markaz, went on to emerge as the biggest Covid-19 cluster in India, leading to a spurt in the rate of infection in the city.A total of 943 foreigners who had attended the religious congregation organised at the Tablighi Jamaat headquarters have been questioned in the case. While the passports of 723 foreigners and identity cards of 23 Nepal nationals have been recovered, the investigating team set yet to get the travel documents of 197 foreigners.“A majority from the 197 foreigners claim that their passports are with the officer bearers of the Tablighi Jamaat or at its headquarters. Our team had searched the headquarter but did not find them. The investigators would obtain details of their visa and passport from the immigration bureau, if the documents are not recovered,” said a senior crime branch officer privy to the probe, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-police-file-12-more-charge-sheets-against-foreigners-in-jamaat-case/story-ATwBMRirLEiqFTSqTYLzvL.html
29-05-2020||Education||DU Admissions 2020: University may start registrations from June 8, admission process to be completely online||The Delhi University (DU) is likely to begin its admission process for undergraduate, postgraduate, MPhil, and PhD courses by June 8, according to a tentative schedule shared by the administration with the standing committee of the academic council, the highest decision-making body of the varsity, on Wednesday.While the registration process for admission in these courses is tentatively scheduled between June 8 and June 30, admissions for the first cut-off list for undergraduate courses is likely between August 11 and August 14.However, DU officials said, the schedule will entirely depend on the declaration of CBSE Class 12 results and the Covid-19 situation at that time. The standing committee will hold a meeting on Friday to approve the tentative schedule. The pending CBSE board exams are scheduled to be conducted between July 1 and July 15. Although the board has not announced the dates for the results, they are likely to be declared by the end of July.The DU admission process has been delayed by over two months this year due to the Covid-19 lockdown. Last year, the registration process had begun on May 30 and the first cut-off was announced on June 27.According to the tentative schedule for the session 2020-21, the online registration portal for admission to undergraduate courses will be re-opened for updating the class 12 marks between July 31 and August 9.Shobha Bagai, the head of the university’s admission department, said that the entire process will be online this year. “The admission process will be completely administered through the university’s online admission portal. There is no offline admission for any applicant. The students will not be called immediately to the colleges for the physical verification of certificates and completion of the admission process, like before. The colleges will verify the documents online to complete the admission process to avoid gathering of students in view of the Covid-19 pandemic,” she said, adding that the physical verification of documents will be done whenever the classes begin. Bagai, however, said that a final decision on dates and other modalities will be taken after discussing with all the statutory bodies of the university.The admission against the first cut-off is likely to be conducted between August 11 and August 14 and under the second cut-off between August 18 and August 20. While the tentative schedule mentions that five cut-off lists will be announced this year, there is likely to be a special cut-off under which admission will be held between September 8 and September 9. ‘“In case seats are left vacant, further cut-offs may be announced by the university . The schedule will depend on the declaration of class 12 result by CBSE. The dates may be modified keeping in view the situation at the time of admission due to the COVID-19,” the document mentioning the tentative schedule read.For the 12 entrance-based undergraduate courses, the entrance exam will tentatively be held between July 27 and August 10. These courses include BA (Hon) in Business Economics, Bachelor of Management Studies, Bachelor of Business administration, Bachelor of Elementary Education, and BA (Hon) in Multimedia and Mass Communication, among others. Similarly, the entrance exams for postgraduate courses — M Phil and PhD — will also likely be held at the same time.The university, however, has mentioned in its draft bulletin that the modalities of the entrance exams will be announced in the coming weeks by the National Test Agency — the nodal agency .In Delhi University, candidates apply for admissions by creating an account on the university’s online portal. The portal will be available on DU’s official website (du.ac.in). The candidates will upload their details, mark sheets and certificates on the portal and apply for courses and complete the process by paying the registration fee. On the declaration of the cut-off list, the applicants can log-in to the portal to check which all colleges and courses they are eligible for.For the first time, this year, the candidates will not be asked to visit the colleges to complete the admission process. “The colleges shall verify the documents uploaded by the applicants for eligibility and required cut-off. The course in-charge will verify the minimum required qualification, convener of admission will recheck and approve or decline the admissions and then principals will give the final approval or rejection,” stated the draft of the admission bulletin shared with the standing members.“Once the principal of the college has approved admissions, the applicant will receive a link on their dashboard on the portal through which they can submit their college fees. The fees will be paid within 24 hours of the approval of admission failing which the admission will be automatically cancelled,” it added.Several faculty members, however, have raised objections over the shifting of the entire admission process online. Rajesh Jha, the member of the University’s executive council, said, “It should be ensured that all the eligible and interested students should not face difficulties in the admission process. We cannot forget that a large section of students applying for DU are from economically weaker groups. They do not have access to devices and the internet.”The University is yet to decide on modalities to be followed for admission under the sports and extracurricular activities (ECA) quota amid the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/du-may-start-registrations-from-june-8-admission-process-to-be-completely-online/story-gVpPRgG8HCvbWC0tq9iF7O.html
29-05-2020||Mumbai||96% of containment zones in Mumbai are in slums, chawls||With 659 of the 684 containment zones in the city in slums and chawls, these densely populated areas and small tenements, which house a population of 35 lakh, will be crucial to Mumbai’s fight against Covid-19.As per the Union health ministry, a containment zone is defined as a geographical area where a significant number of positive cases of coronavirus are found. Strict movement restrictions are put in place in such areas to prevent the spread of the virus. These zones are created by geographically demarcating 3-km radius from the residence of the positive case. Initially, the BMC contained single buildings, but now the BMC uses natural boundaries such as roads, nullahs, chowks to seal the zones. Zones can be made of a few buildings with cases, a square or an area that is easy to lock in. Restrictions are removed if no new case is found in 28 days. Overall, 7,79,740 households and 35,93,384 people in Mumbai are under containment zones.Also Read: Another constable succumbs to Covid; Mumbai Police toll is 14Dharavi, the biggest slum cluster in Mumbai, has 11 containment zones, housing a population of 1.98 lakh. The Dharavi slum is spread over 2.4 sqkm, has 8,50,000 population and a population density of 354,167 per square kilometre, making it one of the more cramped spaces in Mumbai, itself the world’s fifth most densely populated city. The slum is characterised by difficult-to-manage makeshift shanties, or double storey stand-alone tin and concrete shanties. There are only a few multi-storey slum rehabilitation authority (SRA) buildings that are gated. There are 225 public community toilets in this slum, used by thousands of people daily. Residents are daily wage workers, or run small businesses from their homes. By some estimates, there are thousands of businesses in the shantytown.Of the 684, slum pockets in L ward of BMC (Kurla) have the highest number of containment zones (131) covering 10,699 households and a population of 53,451. Kurla is followed by slum pockets in Govandi (M-East ward) and Bhandup (S ward).Also Read: Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThere are 66 containment zones in Govandi which includes 54,533 households and 2.91 lakh people. In Bhandup, 84,772 people are contained in 62 zones, which include 18,979 households.Small houses, common toilets and high population density lead to faster spread in slums and chawls, say civic officials. Home quarantining a positive patient is practically difficult in such localities owing to lack of space.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner (who is in charge of health), said: “Most of the containment zones are in densely populated slums and chawls. It is because social distancing is difficult in such localities. As such, there will be restrictions. No person will be allowed to go out of the containment zone and no outsider will be allowed entry. The civic body is ensuring supply of essential commodities such as food and vegetables inside containment zones.”Also Read: Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreakDr Prakash Rokade, independent health expert and epidemiologist, said, “Despite a majority of slum areas being marked as containment zones, the cases are rising daily. Demarcation is not the only solution. Institutional quarantine is important for these people.”Civic officials say BMC has hired 42,000 hotel and lodge rooms across Mumbai, especially to quarantine slum dwellers from areas where home quarantine is not possible. In some areas, temporary quarantine facilities have been set up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/96-of-containment-zones-in-mumbai-are-in-slums-chawls/story-K82DeK0wjnTJV7VjWdpQGP.html
29-05-2020||Delhi||Traders seek curfew extension, end to odd-even system from June 1||Around 100 trader associations of Delhi, in an online meet, sought an end to the odd-even arrangement for opening shops and an extension in curfew timings from June 1, when the fourth phase of lockdown ends.The associations, including retailers and wholesalers, suggested the relaxations during an online meeting organised by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP’s) trade and industry wing on Thursday. Based on the suggestions, the trade wing will send recommendations to the Delhi government for framing guidelines from June 1.“We had representatives from at least 100 market associations for the meeting, where most suggested that the timing of the curfew be extended beyond 7pm as well as that shops be allowed to open at least six days a week. Traders, mainly in retail, have been affected because of low sales. We will be sending the recommendations to the chief minister and deputy chief minister for consideration before the new set of guidelines is issued post-May 31,” said Brajesh Goyal, convenor, AAP’s trade and industry wing.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAs part of Delhi-specific guidelines for lockdown 4.0 until May 31, the Delhi government had devised the odd-even system for opening of shops in markets on alternate days. The strategy was aimed at limiting the number of people in the markets and to maintain social distancing to stop the spread of Covid-19. The move was based on the Delhi government’s road rationing scheme to reduce pollution in winter.Shops are required to shut by 7pm due to the night curfew from 7pm to 7am.According to trader associations, there were more losses in opening shops based on the odd-even system, as they have to pay rent for the entire month while the sales did not pick up due to few customers.Atul Bhargava, a store owner at Connaught Place and the president of New Delhi Traders’ Association, said, “The odd-even system is not working well for retail markets, where the business is based solely on walk-in customers. We are spending more than what we are earning. The sales are not even enough to meet basic expenses like electricity bills. Besides, there has been no relief from the government in property tax or GST rates. There has to be continuity in the opening of the markets for business to pick up.”Also, retailers have suggested extending the curfew timing, from 7pm to at least 9pm, citing increased customer footfall in evenings due to summer. Since workers come from far-off areas and with limited transport available, they are not able to stay beyond 5pm, which is when customers start pouring in.“Markets must be allowed to open every day. We could open late in the morning, as customers come only later in the day and keep open till 8.30pm or so. The curfew can start from 9pm to 6am, which will be feasible for both traders and customers,” said Sanjeev Mehra, president, Khan Market Traders’ Association.Traders in major markets including Lajpat Nagar, South Extension, Khan Market, Greater Kailash and Sarojini Nagar, as well as wholesale markets like Chandni Chowk, said that staggered timings for opening markets could be a better option than the odd-even system.Sanjay Bhargava, president, Chandni Chowk Sarv Vyapar Mandal, said that they are ready to open shops from June 1. The traders here had voluntarily decided to shut the market till May 31.“Instead of odd-even, the government must go for staggered timings for wholesale and retail markets. The wholesale markets could open in the first half while retail could open later in the day and remain open till around 8pm. This will help maintain social distancing and order in the markets,” said Bhargava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/traders-seek-curfew-extension-end-to-odd-even-system-from-june-1/story-4jM4Lf8uxuachQTm6HUVnJ.html
29-05-2020||Delhi||Railway station becomes temporary home for many||Standing in a queue outside the ticket booking counter at the New Delhi Railway Station for nearly three hours, Mithun Chaudhary and Mohammad Sanaullah have different expectations when they make it to the front of the line. While Chaudhary is desperate to get a train ticket to his hometown in Bihar, Sanaullah wants a refund on a ticket for a train that was cancelled.Both of them are finding it difficult to survive in the city and are unsure if their long wait in the queue will be fruitful.It is Sanaullah’s third visit to the counter in three days—to seek a refund on a ticket he had booked for a train to Kolkata that got cancelled. “The last two times when my turn arrived, I was told that there was no cash at the counter. The ₹1,800 cash will help me feed my family for a few more days,” Sanaullah, who worked at a bag manufacturing unit, said.Chaudhary is a street food vendor who wants to return to his hometown in Bihar since he hasn’t been able to earn anything during the lockdown. “I brought the last of my savings with me to book a ticket, but there are no confirmed seats till June 21,” Chaudhary said.Ever since May 22, when the railways allowed the resumption of physical ticket booking at some counters in the city, several people have been facing the same issues Chaudhary and Sanaullah have at the ticket booking centre at the New Delhi railway station.The tickets that are being booked at the counters are for journeys beginning June 1—when 100 pairs of trains will begin service from Delhi stations. People can cancel all tickets booked before and during the lockdown.STAYING PUT OUTSIDE THE STATIONWhile those seeking refunds have been returning to the booking centre day after day because of the absence of cash at the counters, many of those with confirmed tickets have been living outside the station itself—under trees along the footpath.Vijay Vishwakarma, a factory worker from Mangolpuri who was allegedly kicked out of his home for not paying rent, landed at the railway station on Wednesday. “I thought I would immediately find a train to Pratapgarh, but the ticket is for June 2. My wife and I plan to stay here till then since we don’t have a home anymore,” Vishwakarma said.Also read: After several deaths in Shramik trains, railways says most died of existing illnessMany people seeking train tickets have arrived with all their luggage and plan to wait around even if it takes days. “We couldn’t find a place on the Shramik trains. But my friends and I are wait-listed on a train to Sitapur in Uttar Pradesh on June 5. If we go back to Narela, we could get stuck there. So, we will spend our time under a tree the next few days,” Kuldeep Singh, a factory worker, said.Deepak Kumar, the chief spokesperson of Northern Railways, said that the rush is likely to slow in June. “Most people are waiting for trains to Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. Once we begin the additional 100 pairs of trains, much of the rush will clear and people are likely to get confirmed seats,” Kumar said.NO CASH FOR REFUNDSBut the queues at the booking counter are leading to more people cancelling tickets than booking them. And that, Kumar said, is leading to people not getting their refunds.For many, the refund amount is substantial and their key to survival for the next few days. “I had bought tickets worth ₹1,600 before the lockdown. If I get that money back, it will help me survive for at least two more weeks,” Mohammad Dilshad said on Thursday, during his fourth attempt in four days to get a refund.“Each time they asked me to return the next day,” he said.The railway spokesperson acknowledged the problem of shortage of cash and said the problem was on its way to being solved. “Whatever money is received in train bookings is used to issue refunds. But because of the lockdown, people are booking tickets online. That has led to a shortage of cash at some counters,” Kumar said.Now, money is being withdrawn from banks and sent to the booking counters to issue a refund. “In the past 4-4 days, bank holidays and the weekend added to the problem. Now that is getting sorted out,” Kumar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/wait-for-a-train-wait-for-a-refund/story-S6JqOxP3oCnEKFyUXLOHTJ.html
29-05-2020||Other||IOA row escalates, executive committee meeting on cards||The tussle in the Indian Olympic Association (IOA) has snowballed leading to members on Thursday calling for an urgent executive committee meeting in June.IOA president Narinder Batra’s decision to disband and re-appoint bodies, including the Ethics Commission on May 19, has been termed ‘unconstitutional’ by some members including secretary-general Rajeev Mehta and treasurer Anandeshwar Pandey. The controversy started one week ago with Batra and Mehta at loggerheads over the latter’s role and responsibility.On Thursday, Pandey wrote to IOA members saying an executive committee (EC) meeting “should be convened in June without any further delay.”“In our lifetime we have not experienced such a challenge and also in my period of 40 years association with IOA, I have not seen such violation of constitution and spirit of trust and goodwill.”“The various letters of president are only proposals to be considered by the EC. Any action of new committee/commission prior to the EC meeting will be violation of IOA constitution and financial proprietary,” Pandey wrote.He said appointing new committees and commissions will have significant impact on expenditure of IOA and will first have to be approved by the EC.“While constitution gives certain powers to both the president and secretary general, powers relating to financial responsibility vest with me. IOA has to incur all expenditure as per approved budget and all income has to be duly accounted for under my signature,” he said.Batra said under the IOA constitution he has the authority to appoint or remove members of a commission.“I do not find any mention in Rule 18.3 of involvement of Secretary General and/or the President is bound to take advice from Secretary General to form any Committee/Commission,” said Batra.IOA secretary-general Mehta also supported the call for an EC meeting. He said the EC meeting should not be online but by maintaining physical distancing. “People with valid voting rights would only be allowed to attend,” said Mehta.“The situation is quite embarrassing for the IOA and things should be sorted out amicably,” he said on Thursday.Mehta said there is a ‘serious conspiracy’ to damage IOA’s financial strength. “If this isn’t stopped soon, it will have a serious impact of IOA financial strength.”Mehta said the constitution of IOA has defined every individual’s responsibilities clearly. “Everything is fixed in our constitution and nobody is allowed to interfere in other’s work, but here some people want to grab powers. It should be stopped immediately. In fact, I am not in favour of breaking the norms of the IOA and I wish to work together.”In a fresh exchange of e-mails on Thursday, Batra sought an explanation from finance committee chairman Anil Khanna on losses incurred due to delay in hotel bookings for the Tokyo Olympics.“IOA has now incurred a loss of Rs 72,84,600 due to the delay at your end as Chair of finance committee or by the entire Finance Committee. I request for a factual position on the above at the earliest,” he said.Mehta said there was no financial loss to the IOA and it is entitled to a refund from the hotel.“The Games have been postponed and we have a foolproof payment system in the IOA. There is no chance of any laxity and the people handling the issue have high reputation and credentials. So doubting their integrity wouldn’t be right. IOA hasn’t lost any money and we have the right to take the money back.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/other-sports/ioa-row-escalates-executive-committee-meeting-on-cards/story-1Y6o35jmrLtSZDBPt87IAN.html
29-05-2020||Gurugram||Curbs at Gurugram-Delhi borders to be tightened||Following a sharp spurt in Covid-19 cases in Haryana’s districts — Gurugram and Faridabad — that border Delhi, the Haryana government has decided to impose strict curbs at inter-state borders with Delhi. The police had relaxed the restrictions at Delhi-Gurugram borders earlier this week due to traffic congestion during the peak rush hours.“As the cases are rising in Delhi, it is a cause for concern for Haryana districts that are bordering Delhi. I have again issued orders today that there should be no leniency on borders between Delhi and Haryana districts. Eighty per cent of coronavirus cases in Haryana are from the districts adjoining Delhi. So, we will keep our borders with Delhi completely sealed,” said home minister Anil Vij to ANI.Muhammad Akil, police commissioner, Gurugram, however, said that they are yet to receive a new order in this regard. “The situation is same at the borders and changes are likely to take place from Saturday morning,” he said. Vij, who also has the health portfolio, on Thursday, wrote to the additional chief secretary, home department, stating that sharp increase in Covid-19 cases in Haryana was taking place due to large scale movement of people between the two states. Taking this into account, borders curbs are likely to continue.Referring to the rise in cases, Vij said in his letter that in the last week, Faridabad has reported 98 cases, Gurugram 111 cases, Jhajjar six and Sonipat 28. In view of the rising cases, it is pertinent that only those categories of people who are allowed by the high court and home ministry be allowed movement between the two states. Haryana on Thursday reported 123 new coronavirus cases, taking the total number of cases in the state to 1,504 including 19 deaths. Gurugram reported the highest single-day spike, recording 68 cases of coronavirus, taking the number of total cases to 405, including three deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/curbs-at-gurugram-delhi-borders-to-continue/story-SkA9Bsism6tOVZDDQZxWCN.html
29-05-2020||Pune||Pune’s Gultekadi Market Yard to reopen on Sunday after being shut for 50 days||The wholesale fruit and vegetable market at Gultekdi will resume its operations on Sunday (May 31) after being shut for 50 days.The Pune Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) administrator BJ Deshmukh said, “A joint meeting had been conducted between traders and all market-related stakeholders and it has been decided that the Market Yard will restart operations from May 31. APMC will ensure that all the necessary precautions are followed at the Market Yard.” APMC had shut down Market Yard after Covid-19 (coronavirus) positive cases were reported from the area. However, sub-markets at Manjri and Pimpri were open for business to ensure smooth vegetable supply to the city.“Number of vehicles entering the wholesale market will be limited and people from micro-containment zones will not be inside the Market Yard,” added Deshmukh.Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and cooperative and marketing minister Balasaheb Patil had instructed the administration to restart the market so that farmers from rural areas can bring their produce to the market for sale to residents and maintain ample supply of fruits and vegetables in the city.Traders union president Vilas Bhujbal said, “We will ensure that everyone follows necessary precautions when the Market Yard resumes operations. Everyone coming to the market will need to wear a mask and use sanitisers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/gultekadi-market-yard-to-reopen-on-sunday-after-being-shut-for-50-days/story-nPFoCqfbsmKAF8JdvexLbP.html
29-05-2020||Pune||Covid test: Pune civic body follows ICMR not state guidelines for pregnant women||Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has asked private hospitals not to make Covid-19 (coronavirus) test mandatory for patients undergoing emergency surgeries, including deliveries.According to municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad, some private hospitals are subjecting patients to Covid test before emergency surgeries. “Hospitals could be doing it for health reasons as doctors and nursing staff are at high risk of getting infected, but Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) test protocol clearly states no test is required,” said Gaikwad. As per the state government order, which Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is following, all pregnant women from containment areas, including asymptomatic ones likely to deliver in the next five days, should be tested.PMC, however, has yet to take a call on this, said Gaikwad. As per the most recent testing protocol issued by ICMR on May 18, emergency procedure should not be delayed for asymptomatic patients in the absence of Covid test.“No emergency procedures, including deliveries, should be delayed for lack of test,” reads clause number nine of ICMR protocol. The clause further states that sample can be sent for testing in case patient has Covid symptoms.“We have already started implementing this protocol in Pune and have informed private hospitals,” said Gaikwad.Dr Sanjeev Wavare, PMC assistant health chief, said, “The guidelines include testing of all symptomatic individuals with international travel history in last 14 days. We are testing as per the guidelines sent to us by ICMR on May 18 and there are no changes in it. The guidelines include testing of all symptomatic individuals with international travel history in last 14 days, and symptomatic health care workers and contacts of laboratory confirmed cases should be tested. All patients of severe acute respiratory infection (SARI), all symptomatic people within hotspots and containment zones and hospitalised patients who develop symptoms should be tested. And no emergency procedures, including deliveries, should be delayed for lack of test.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-test-pmc-follows-icmr-not-state-guidelines-for-pregnant-women/story-PR0MsROSrQ3iDhBCubYM9I.html
29-05-2020||City||Residents of Ludhiana’s Ward 91 protest as water supply remains disrupted||Irked over disruption in water supply, residents of Civil City, Bishan Enclave and Preetam Nagar of Ward Number 91, staged a protest against the area councillor and the municipal corporation. Residents say they have not had supply for the last three days. Kishan Kumar, a resident of Civil City area, said, “When we don’t have water to drink, how does the administration expect us to maintain basic hygiene during the pandemic. We are not being provided water tankers and are forced to ask for water from neighbours who have submersible water pumps.” Keemti Rawal, president of Baba Deep Singh Ji Welfare Society, an NGO, said, “This area faces this problem every year and we have apprised the MC commissioner about it but nothing has been done. We have even written to the Punjab Human Rights Commission.”Area councillor Gurpinder Kaur Sandhu said, “The tube well in the area had developed a snag around six months back. Since then, the supply is being done through tube wells installed in nearby areas. The tube well installation project for Civil City Area has already been but the process got delayed due to the lockdown. The contract would be allotted in few days.” Residents of Gurmail Nagar and areas surrounding Ward 31 also said they are facing water woes. Mayor Balkar Sandhu said,”I have directed the officials of operations of maintenance cell to resolve issue and also ensure supply through water tanks in affected areas.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/residents-of-ludhiana-s-ward-91-protest-as-water-supply-remains-disrupted/story-ENMtS1QdcygOiuTftKUXkJ.html
29-05-2020||Mumbai||No locust swarm heading for Mumbai; experts rubbish theories||The Locust Warning Organisation (LWO), which functions under the Union agriculture ministry, clarified on Thursday that there is no swarm of insects heading to Mumbai. Unverified photographs on social media had led to panic among Mumbaiites that a locust swarm from Gujarat was expected in Mumbai on Thursday. “The invasion is restricted to parts of eastern Maharashtra, with districts in Vidarbha affected. The wind direction from Madhya Pradesh is favourable for their movement within this area and food availability in these zones. No such warning has been given for the Konkan region, including Mumbai, as the wind direction will not allow their movement to the coastal city from Gujarat,” said KL Gurjar, deputy director, LWO. Experts, too, dissed the reports of locusts swarming the city. Entomologists said locust swarms prefer dry places and would avoid areas such as Mumbai that have excess humidity. “Since 1pm on Thursday, I have been getting messages, images and videos of some grasshopper species from several locations in Mumbai. Many seemed fake or photoshopped,” said Sunjoy Monga, ornithologist and naturalist. “On an ecological level, although not entirely impossible, it is highly unlikely for desert locusts to swarm humid zones.”Dr Himmat Singh, an entomologist from Rajasthan studying locusts extensively, said, “People should not panic as locusts are not a threat to humans. Also, considering large green patches over Vidarbha, where it rained during March and April, makes for a suitable habitat for them to feed on fruit trees. This is not the case in Mumbai and considering the present wind direction, it is highly unlikely that a swarm could enter the city,” he said.Unverified videos on social media platforms made the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) insecticide department call up ward officers across the city to verify whether they had received any complaints. “Not a single complaint was recorded. We found that all videos being claimed to be from Mumbai were fake. The current wind direction over the city will not allow the pests to move over this region, and in case there was such a movement, districts further north of the city would be alerted first,” said Rajan Naringrekar, BMC insecticide officer. “Action needs to be taken against those making such false claims and the police needs to look into this at the earliest,” he added. Dr Kailas Shinde, Palghar district collector, issued an advisory to villages bordering Palghar and Gujarat on locust swarms having reached some parts of the state. The collector advised farmers to keep a vigil in their fields at night. He also asked them to burn tyres and dig trenches to prevent the locusts from damaging the crops.Meanwhile, at Temani village in Bhandara district, two fire tenders carried out a spraying operation across a radius of a kilometre between Wednesday night and Thursday morning. “In the morning the locusts were found falling from trees and dying in large numbers. Tree species on which they rested were mango, teak, moha, anjan, jambhul, kinhi, ber etc, with mango trees affected the most. However, no damage has been recorded across paddy fields where harvesting is underway during early mornings,” said Ravindra Bhosale, divisional joint director agriculture.“While thousands of locusts were killed, those that survived are moving towards Gondia district, which might be the state’s fifth district (after Amravati, Nagpur, Wardha, and Bhandara) to be affected. We are still monitoring their movement,” he added. The state agriculture department on Thursday said there was no indication of locust movement towards Mumbai. “We are constantly getting updates from the LWO and no such warning or alert has been issued for Mumbai,” said Suhas Diwase, agriculture commissioner, Maharashtra. The India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) aerodrome meteorological division in Santacruz (for civil aviation services) said there was no difference in visibility on Thursday. “If there was a large locust swarm, it would have been spotted by us,” said Sunil Kamble, scientist, IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/no-locust-swarm-heading-for-mumbai-experts-rubbish-theories/story-BiyvToqPJ4eMEaBlXhzg7J.html
29-05-2020||City||49-year-old RPF personnel succumbs to Covid-19 in Ludhiana||A 49-year-old Railway Protection Force (RPF) jawan, who was suffering from Covid-19, died at the Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMC&H) here on Thursday.A resident of Karol Bagh in Jalandhar, he died at noon after suffering a cardiac arrest. Confirming the death, civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said that the patient was undergoing treatment at the Mother and Child Hospital since May 20. “He was suffering from acute pneumonia and on May 22, he was rushed to CMCH after his condition deteriorated.” The patient, who also had diabetes, had been on ventilator support for the past four days.FRESH CASELater in the evening, a 72-year-old woman from Hathi Gate of Amritsar also tested positive for the virus. She was rushed was rushed to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMC&H) early in the morning and tested. Dr Bagga said the woman was stable now.The district has so far seen 13 deaths, out of which seven are from the district and six are from other districts. The district currently has 33 active cases, excluding the RPF personnel and people from other districts who tested positive here. As many as 57 personnel of the RPF contingent sent for crowd control at the railway station in Ludhiana had tested positive after their arrival. Of these, 45 have recovered and been discharged. Deputy commissioner (DC) Pradeep Agrawal said, “A total of 6,430 samples have been collected from Ludhiana, of which, reports of 6,222 have been received.As many as 5,953 reports came out negative, while the reports of 208 samples are pending. Presently, Ludhiana’s tally is 181, excluding 88 are from other districts/states. Till date, 6,493 persons have been kept under home quarantine and presently, the number of such people is 1,802. Of them, 92 were sent to home quarantine on Thursday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/49-year-old-rpf-personnel-succumbs-to-covid-19-in-ludhiana/story-YBBxgzcBi6PkYYbLrsZruI.html
29-05-2020||Pune||State government approves PMC medical college plan||Given the current Covid-19 pandemic, a proposal by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to set up a medical college on the premises of Naidu hospital, has been approved by the state government.The order for the same was issued on May 26.In August 2019, the PMC standing committee approved the proposal to set up a trust to run the civic medical college at Rs 622 crore. The proposed college will be set up on a 10 acre plot and will be named after late prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, said officials.According to mayor Murlidhar Mohol, after the nod from the state government to form the medical education trust in order to establish the proposed medical college, the PMC now will register a trust with charitable commissioner and later submit the proposal for Maharashtra University of Health Science located at Nashik for final approval.“We are expecting that medical college would begin operations from the next academic year. The PMC-run Naidu hospital will be attached with the new medical college. I was following up with the state government and guardian minister Ajit Pawar regarding the proposal,” said Mohol.“We were under impression that the state government may delay the proposal given that the hospital will be named after Vajpayee. However, Pawar made it clear that the name of the college was not an issue; his main concern was that the financial burden must not come on the state government.Development secretary Mahesh Pathak suggested that instead of forming a trust, either PMC or state government should run this college, however, we convinced him and he gave his approval for forming the trust,” added Mohol.The medical trust, according to civic officials, will be an independent body that will run the college through fees from students and nominal charges from patients.According to Mohol, Pathak was in the city recently to take the review of Covid-19 and visited some of the containment zones. During the same visit, Pathak had a detailed discussion over the medical college proposal and assured to approve the PMC proposal.PMC health chief Ramchandra Hankare said, “PMC has received the nod from the state government for forming the trust which will take care of the medical college. Now the PMC will complete the necessary process for it. State government has given the nod by considering that there would be no financial burden on them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/state-government-approves-pmc-medical-college-plan/story-VUetqPsmTpSqhVkEUr1CiP.html
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||Six new Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh’s Bapu Dham Colony, 91-year-old from Sector 15 also positive||Seven new cases of Covid-19 surfaced on Thursday, increasing the city count to 289.Out of the seven cases, six are from the containment zone of Bapu Dham Colony, while a Sector 15 woman was also confirmed infected.The city currently has 96 active cases, while 189 have been discharged. Four people have succumbed to the virus.With Thursday’s new cases, the Covid count in the congested Bapu Dham has now reached 216, accounting for 74% of the city’s cases. The fresh cases comprise four males aged eight, 16, 17 and 53, and two girls aged 12 and 15. The patients are from two households in one building.The first case in Bapu Dham was reported on April 24 when a hospital staffer of Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, and resident of the colony was found infected. The colony has seen one Covid-19 death. ELDERLY WOMAN WAS TO UNDERGO SURGERY The Sector 15 resident is a 91-year-old woman, who was admitted to a private hospital in Mohali for a surgery, and tested positive for the virus before it.“The woman had suffered a fracture in the neck of the femur. She tested positive before the surgery,” health officials said. This is the second such case from the sector where the source of infection is unknown. Earlier, a 67-year-old man with no contact history with a positive person was found infected on May 1. He has since been discharged.Five family members of the elderly woman have been quarantined, and three of them have been sampled at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH) in Sector 16, Chandigarh.TWO DISCHARGEDChandigarh on Thursday recorded two more recoveries with a 24-year-old health worker from GMSH and a 35-year-old man from Sector 7 being discharged from hospitals.UT‘s recovery rate stands at 65% against the national recovery rate of 42.7%, while the fatality rate is 1.3% against the national average of 2.8%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/six-new-covid-19-cases-in-chandigarh-s-congested-containment-zone/story-BE1gF3Ko1D1sShwqcQJeoO.html
