30-05-2020||City||Thane records 5 Covid-19 deaths||Three women and two men, who had tested positive for Covid-19, died in Thane. A total of 151 new cases were recorded in the city on Saturday. The number of positive cases in the city is 2,901. Eighty-four Covid-19 patients have died in the city so far.Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of Thane Municipal Corporation, said, “Three women died in the city. Two of them are Mumbra residents aged 26 and 31 years. The third woman is 61 years old from Mahagiri. Two men, one a 75-year-old from Sawarkarnagar and the other a 67-year-old man from Anandnagar died after testing positive.”The highest number of cases, 37 cases, were reported from Lokmanyanagar Sawarkarnagar ward, followed by 24 in Naupada-Kopri and 20 in Mumbra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-records-5-covid-19-deaths/story-usNZTAi2CyDanNewx18A9H.html
30-05-2020||City||Government-approved stores will soon be able to sell PPE in Maharashtra||Now, protective gear for doctors will be available at select, government-approved medical stores in Mumbai and Thane. At present, Maharashtra has a manufacturing capacity of over 15,000 personal protective equipment (PPE) per day. As per the instruction of the state government, under the Epidemic Diseases Act, all private clinics and medical setups must remain open during the lockdown. However, doctors have complained of lack of PPE, which offer essential protection from the virus. Taking note of this, Food and Drugs Authority (FDA) has ensured the availability of PPE at select chemists. In Mumbai, 122 such shops have permission to sell PPE to doctors. There is no fixed rate for PPE, but would be priced at around Rs 1,000, said JN Mantri, joint commissioner, Maharashtra FDA.“We have requested stores to charge reasonably and they have agreed. At present, we have started with Thane and Mumbai but will expand to other districts,” said Arun Unhale, commissioner, Maharashtra FDA. The Indian Medical Association (IMA) has welcomed the move. “Due to growing demand for PPE, traders are supplying it at a higher price to private hospitals. Many of them are not of adequate quality to ensure safety. But this new policy would be helpful for doctors,” said Dr Avinash Bhonwde, president, IMA Maharashtra. The production of PPE in Maharashtra has increased by almost 15 times since March. From four manufacturers, the number has increased to 19, taking the total daily production of PPE to over 15,000. “We have ensured that we have enough number of PPE for medical staffers in the state. Recently, after receiving complaints about poor quality of PPE, we raided a medical store in Pune,” said Mantri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/government-approved-stores-will-soon-be-able-to-sell-ppe-in-maharashtra/story-QVFH1vmApIiRX0taShDAkK.html
30-05-2020||City||Non-Covid hospitals cannot refuse patients: Thane civic body||A day after sealing three hospitals in Mumbra, the Thane civic commissioner has issued directives to all non-Covid hospitals in the city to admit suspected Covid-19 patients. Civic commissioner Vijay Singhal said a police case will be registered against the director of these private hospitals if they flout the rule. On Friday, the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) registered cases against three private hospitals in Mumbra for refusing to admit patients. Singhal said, “The state government has given strict guidelines to the private hospitals, which are non-Covid hospitals, to not reject any patient. We have also issued directives to private hospitals to admit symptomatic suspected Covid-19 patients. The hospitals can admit these patients in the isolation ward and start treatment. Once their condition is stable and if there is a need, Covid-19 test can be done.” If the patient tests negative, the hospital where he is admitted will continue his treatment. If he tests positive, he should be shifted to a Covid hospital. “If any hospital does not follow the directives and rejects a patient or asks the family to shift the patient elsewhere, we will file a police case against the director of the hospital,” Singhal added. BJP corporator Narayan Pawar has demanded that TMC should take action against big hospitals too for rejecting patients or charging a huge amount. “TMC was quick to take action against three small private hospitals in Mumbra. What about big hospitals? We have complained against several hospitals but no action has yet been taken.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/non-covid-hospitals-cannot-refuse-patients-thane-civic-body/story-esrwgIG1QH4OL5wUo9XSPO.html
30-05-2020||City||Man kills wife after fight over jewellery, flees||A 32-year-old woman was allegedly killed by her husband at Ambivli in Kalyan on Saturday after they had a fight over jewellery. The woman was his second wife. The deceased, Shalan Kharat, was living with her husband, Bala Kharat, 38, a ragpicker, and two children. Shalan often used to quarrel with him over money and jewellery he had given his first wife. On Friday night, they fought over the same issue. Later in the night, Bala strangled her to death with a rope and fled. Senior inspector from Khadakpada police station, A Pawar, said, “When the children woke up in the morning, they found their mother dead. We have registered a murder case against her husband, who is absconding.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-kills-wife-after-fight-over-jewellery-flees/story-qSZR5adQVXrZTbaKh0L0xK.html
30-05-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai resident distributes 2,000 masks for free to Covid frontline workers||A resident of Bhandup has distributed approximately 2,000 masks over the past month, to police officers, civic staff and other essential services workers. After crowd-sourcing bedsheets from friends, relatives and neighbours, Kaustubh Deshmukh collaborated with a local tailor and the non-governmental organisation Groups of Disabled (GODs) to make “colourful and fancy masks”. Deshmukh distributes these masks in the suburbs and says they’re popular.“I go around from Thane to Airoli and Ghatkopar, returning to Bhandup. Wherever I see police or those in need of masks, I simply provide them with some depending on their requirement,” said Deshmukh, who works as a manager at a private company. He’s given some of the masks to street vendors and asked them to distribute the masks for free. Next week, Deshmukh will meet with the Mumbai Police to give approximately 1,000 masks made of bedsheets, for police constables. He also plans to meet with the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply & Transport (BEST) undertaking, which runs the city’s buses, to provide drivers and conductors on duty with his masks.“For those working in the frontline, we will provide green masks similar to what’s used in hospitals. My intention behind this drive was that, even if 50 people like me can provide masks, we would have ample,” Deshmukh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-resident-distributes-2-000-masks-for-free-to-covid-frontline-workers/story-OU57e1rMl4v14R4IQshETP.html
30-05-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai sizzles at 35.7°C, season’s highest temp so far||The city and suburbs both recorded their highest day temperature this season so far on Saturday. The Santacruz weather observatory, representative of the suburbs, recorded 35.7 degrees Celsius, almost 2 degree Celsius above normal. Up till Saturday, the maximum temperature had not surpassed the 35 degree Celsius mark in the suburbs during May. Colaba weather station, representative of south Mumbai, recorded 35.4 degrees Celsius, a little over a degree Celsius above normal. The night temperature was also the highest in five years at 29.2 degrees Celsius in the suburbs, the same as the highest minimum recorded during May 2016.The weather bureau said light overnight drizzling was recorded across the city and suburbs between Friday night and Saturday morning. “A partly cloudy sky during the day led to a high minimum temperature while clear conditions later in the day led to land heating which increased day temperatures,” said an official from the India Meteorological Department (IMD).Meanwhile, IMD updated its district-wise rainfall forecast for June 1 stating ‘very light to light rain’ was expected for Mumbai, Thane and Palghar on Monday while ‘light to moderate rain’ has been predicted for all three areas on Tuesday. “The likely formation of a weather system over southeast Arabian Sea, which is likely to intensify and move northwestwards towards Maharashtra and Gujarat coast will pave way for pre-monsoon rain,” the official added.Meanwhile, private weather forecasting agency Skymet announced that all conditions were met for southwest monsoon onset over Kerala on Saturday. However, both IMD and secretary of ministry of earth sciences M Rajeevan denied the claim. “The news about monsoon onset over Kerala in social media is not correct. Monsoon has not arrived over Kerala yet,” tweeted Rajeevan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-sizzles-at-35-7-c-season-s-highest-temp-so-far/story-Ib2TmsvdTfoYeSCDlJxmlK.html
30-05-2020||Mumbai||Surgical masks sold at inflated rates in Mumbai despite price cap by Centre||Despite the price of two- and three-layer surgical masks being capped by the Centre, many medical stores continue to sell the masks at inflated prices. While the Food and Drugs Authority (FDA) has conducted raids in Pune, no action has been taken against medical stories in Mumbai that are charging higher prices for masks.In March, when Maharashtra reported its first case of Covid-19, the demand for masks increased by 400% in the state and its retail price doubled. On March 21, the Union ministry of consumer affairs said that the maximum retail price for two- and three-ply ‘surgical’ face masks must be capped at Rs 8 and Rs 10 per piece respectively.Since then, FDA, the apex regulating body, has raided seven medical stores in Maharashtra for overpricing of masks. The highest number of raids (four) were conducted in Pune. There have been no raids conducted in Mumbai. JN Mantri, joint commissioner, Maharashtra FDA, said no consumer complaints have been made in Mumbai. “We haven’t received any complaint from the city yet. We have conducted one raid in Thane. People can call at 1800-222-365 to file complaints,” he said.HT checked with leading medical stores in Mumbai and found surgical masks continue to be sold at inflated prices, ranging from Rs 20 to Rs 30. If the medical store is near a Covid hospital, the price increases further.“The demand of the masks is the highest near the hospitals. So the medical stores sell it at the maximum price range. Sometimes, the price gets as high as Rs 50 but there is no one to keep an eye on them despite the capping,” said Abhay Pandey, national president, All Food and Drug Licence Holder Foundation (AFDLHF).Explaining FDA’s process, Mantri said, “On [receiving] tip-offs, we send officers as customers to buy masks. Then we catch them [sellers] red-handed. Though we don’t seize the masks, we give warnings and transfer the cases to National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority.”Activists said citizens’ rights are being violated as the arbitrarily-raised prices reduce people’s access to medical amenities during the pandemic. “Till January, surgical masks cost only Rs 2. Firstly, the cap imposed on the pricing is much higher. Secondly, it is not even implemented. In Singapore, the government has installed mask-vending machines, which provide masks free of cost. In India, Covid-19 has turned into a business,” said Anjali Damania, founder-trustee of Voice of Indian Taxpayers, a non-governmental organisation.Sunita Mishra, 34-year-old, a private nurse, said, “I have to take care of two bedridden patients, one in the morning and the other one in the evening. So, I can’t repeat the same mask for both patients. This costs me Rs50 daily. Then, while going out for groceries, I have to put on my third mask. Every month, I spend around Rs 2,000 only on masks.” As per the World Health Organization (WHO), masks are essential for the prevention of Covid-19. Last month, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) made wearing masks when outdoors compulsory to reduce the spread of the infection.No cap on N95 masksThough N95 masks have been declared essential commodity under the Essential Commodities Act, there is no cap on its price. Private hospitals, nursing homes and small clinics are forced to buy these masks at exorbitant prices, which is usually added to a patient’s bill. “NPPA [National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority], the regulating body, is supposed to bring the mask under its cap as an essential commodity, but it hasn’t so far, which is leading to black marketing and hoarding,” said Damania. The mask, which was priced at Rs 20 prior to the outbreak, now costs Rs 350 in Mumbai. For those buying in bulk, traders sell N95 masks for Rs 274 per piece. Last week, NPPA held a meeting with makers, importers and suppliers of N95 masks to maintain parity in prices. “Haffkine Institute provided the masks at Rs 42. If the private companies don’t reduce the rate after warning, we will bring it under cap,” said an NPPA officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/surgical-masks-sold-at-inflated-rates-in-mumbai-despite-price-cap-by-centre/story-O62OTgz78X9c2UgkJOSQKN.html
30-05-2020||Mumbai||HC asks state to reply to PIL on state of migrants||A division bench of the Bombay high court (HC), while hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (Citu) seeking relief for migrant workers opting for special Shramik trains or buses to return to their hometowns, has asked the state to file a detailed report by June 2.The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice KK Tated has asked the state to elaborate on the procedure that a migrant worker is required follow to be eligible to leave Maharashtra, the waiting period thereafter for a migrant to board a train or bus, nature of shelter being made available for them and the provisions made available for sustenance.Citu, represented by senior counsel Gayatri Singh along with advocates Kranti LC and Ronita Bhattacharya Bector, informed the court that migrant workers who had applied to leave the state are left in the dark about the status of their applications and are being forced to live in unhygienic shelters without food and other basic essentials till they can board the trains or buses.In response, additional solicitor general Anil Singh on behalf of the Central government informed the bench that an order of the Supreme Court passed on May 28 detailed on the measures to be taken for the migrant workers, and that all states were asked to implement the same and file reports.After perusing the apex court order, the bench noted that directions were issued to all states for simplifying and expediting registration process for migrant workers and to provide helpdesks at places where they are stranded.As the SC is to hear the petition on June 5, the bench observed, “At this stage, neither are we empowered nor do we wish to make any order contrary to the spirit of the order of the Supreme Court. However, having regard to the peculiar local conditions, we consider it fit and proper to call upon the State to file a report.”The bench further stated that it had come across photographs in newspapers showing congregation of migrant workers not only on railway platforms but also on the streets adjoining railway stations. “Such congregation, if allowed, would run counter to the object, for which the lockdown has been imposed,” said the bench. The bench has posted the matter for hearing on June 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-asks-state-to-reply-to-pil-on-state-of-migrants/story-mW2yl7BmutTRn5cAPzq94N.html
30-05-2020||Mumbai||15L migrants sent back; 3,459 stranded Indians arrived in state: Maharashtra govt||Maharashtra government has sent around 15 lakh migrant workers to their respective states so far. Of them, 9.82 lakh workers were sent through special Shramik trains and 5.08 lakh migrants were sent by state transport (ST) buses, according to information shared by the state government.In addition, 3,459 Indians stranded in 17 different countries have been brought back to Maharashtra in 27 flights under Vande Bharat Mission. All of them have been kept under institutional quarantine facility developed by the state government for 14 days, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Saturday. Of the 3,459 citizens, 1,137 are from Mumbai, 1,572 are from other parts of the state and the remaining 750 are from other states. Thackeray said more stranded Indians are being brought back under the mission as six more flights are expected to land in Mumbai till June 7.The stranded Indians are brought from Britain, Singapore, Philippines, the United States, Bangladesh, Malaysia, Kuwait, Ethiopia, Afghanistan, Oman, South Africa, Indonesia, Netherlands, Japan, Sri Lanka, Myanmar and Tanzania. Thackeray said all those who are from Mumbai have been kept in institutional quarantine facilities developed at various hotels in the city while those are from other parts of the state have been sent to the respective districts where they have been kept in quarantine facilities. “We have also kept all those, who are not from Maharashtra but have not got passes for entry from the respective states, in Mumbai at quarantine facilities,” the chief minister said.State home minister Anil Deshmukh said over 9.82 lakh migrant workers have been sent with the help of 696 special trains which started from May 1. Of the trains, a majority of 374 departed for Uttar Pradesh, 169 trains for Bihar, 33 trains for Madhya Pradesh, 30 trains for Jharkhand, 13 trains for Orissa and six trains departed for Karnataka so far.The state government has also sent 5,08,803 migrants to their respective states in 41,874 trips of ST buses. The destinations include Telangana, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Chattisgarh, Karnataka among other. The government has spent ₹94.66 crore on sending migrant workers through buses, stated a release issued by the chief minister’s office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/15l-migrants-sent-back-3-459-stranded-indians-arrived-in-state-maharashtra-govt/story-IBRx5vVYVIuSX41faZftOO.html
30-05-2020||Mumbai||World No Tobacco Day: Docs say this is the right time to quit||While smokers are more vulnerable to the novel coronavirus due to their compromised lungs, doctors said that the national lockdown has pushed many to quit smoking.On the eve of World No Tobacco Day, which is observed on May 31, doctors warned smokers to avoid the habit even after lockdown as Sars-Cov-2— the virus that causes Covid-19 is going to remain a threat for a longer period.In comparison to non-smokers, regular smokers can have co-morbid health issues like chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) with compromised lungs which are more vulnerable to contracting the infection. Along with that, they are at greater risk of developing heart diseases and asthma which, as recent data has shown, can make increase the chance of falling sick to the virus.“Thus, the chances of smokers catching Covid-19 is higher. Also, they have higher chances of developing pneumonia if the virus gets into the body. Due to underlying health issues, the chances of mortality are also high among the smokers,” said Dr Om Srivastava, city-epidemiologist. A recent study conducted by among 650 smokers has found that 38% reported having quit tobacco during this period. Of these, 51% were forced to quit because of the lockdown and the coronavirus scare. The study, conducted by LifeFirst, is part of a tobacco dependence treatment programme initiated by Narotam Sekhsaria Foundation in collaboration with Salaam Bombay Foundation.On May 26, the World Health Organization (WHO) recommended tobacco users to stop the habit as a precautionary measure against Covid-19. Dr Himanshu A Gupte, general manager, Narotam Sekhsaria Foundation, said, “It is thus evident that this is the best time to quit tobacco use and people are willing and also making attempts. Tobacco products not being available and becoming more expensive were among the common reasons that impacted smokers.”Tobacco users, particularly those who use smokeless tobacco, can be instrumental in spreading the disease through spitting. Covid-19 spreads through small droplets from the nose or mouth, which are dispersed when an infected person cough, sneeze, speech, exhalation or spitting.“As per research, these droplets can survive for hours. So, smoking increases the chances of spreading the virus further among other people,” said Dr Gautam Bhansali, consultant physician at Bombay Hospital.A 32-year-old from Borivali who recently quit smoking after 11 years said that the lockdown gave her an opportunity to quit smoking. “I have stopped going out and I can’t smoke at home due to the presence of my parents. In the first week, whenever I had the urges of smoking, I ate a lot of junk food. But after 21 days, I felt better,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/world-no-tobacco-day-docs-say-this-is-the-right-time-to-quit/story-sd6FkqanW3jivyejQemVYJ.html
30-05-2020||Chandigarh||Jagraon Bridge: Fearing cave-in, Ludhiana MC changes retaining wall design, deadline extended||Fearing a road cave-in at the closed leg of the Jagraon Bridge, the municipal corporation (MC) has changed the foundation design of the retaining wall and the approach road being established at the bridge site.Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu visited the spot on Saturday morning and directed officials and the contractor to complete the project before July 14. Earlier, June 30 was the deadline.Earlier, several NGOs of the city warned the civic body that they would observe the fourth ‘death anniversary’ of the bridge if the authorities failed to complete the project by July 14. MC officials claim after cracks started to develop at the closed leg of the bridge adjoining the approach road site, the MC officials consulted experts of the Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College (GNDEC) and the foundation design has now been changed for avoiding any road cave-in incident. MC superintending engineer (SE) HS Bhullar said, “Cracks had developed at the closed leg on Wednesday, following which the site was got inspected by experts of the GNDEC. The experts said the road portion might cave in if the foundation design is not changed. The design has now been changed and the work will be completed by July 10.”The railways has also been asked to complete the pending works so that the bridge could be opened for traffic after the construction of the retaining wall and approach roads, said Bhullar. Sandhu said all efforts were being made to complete the project at the earliest so that residents could heave a sigh of relief from traffic woes. The contractor has been told to expedite the work, the mayor added. Under the project, the MC has to construct the retaining wall of the bridge and increase the width of road approaching the railway overbridge (from Gurdwara Dukhniwaran side towards Durga Mata Mandir) by three metres.The MC had earlier started the construction on January 30 and it was due to be completed by April 14. But the project was halted after curfew was announced by the government on March 23. The construction work restarted on April 29 and it was said that the work is expected to complete by June 20. But the project has now been further delayed. In July 2016, the railways had closed one leg of the bridge, which was leading to traffic chaos in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/jagraon-bridge-fearing-cave-in-ludhiana-mc-changes-retaining-wall-design-deadline-extended/story-T0nk9nSNvsa95uBNV469aJ.html
30-05-2020||Mumbai||South Mumbai wards keep Covid count in check||Even as experts and bureaucrats have pointed to Mumbai’s high population density and congestion as factors contributing to the high incidence of Covid-19 cases, two wards in south Mumbai are among those with the lowest number of cases despite having unfavourable conditions. B ward (Bhendi Bazaar, Mohammad Ali Road, Dongri, Pydhonie) and C ward (Kalbadevi, Chira Bazaar) have recorded fewer than 500 cases each.Despite a high population density and cramped homes, B ward has recorded 484 cases and 112 recoveries so far. C ward has also recorded 112 recoveries out of 412 reported cases. B ward, with an area of about 2 square kilometres, has a population of about 1.28 lakh. C ward has a similar population density in an area of 1.8 square kilometres.Authorities and elected representatives of both wards have attributed the relatively limited spread of Covid-19 to the lack of slums in these areas and citizens strictly adhering to lockdown guidelines, rules of quarantine and physical distancing.A senior civic official said, “These areas in south Mumbai are among those where citizens know they will be in a bad situation collectively if they do not take care. Since day one, everybody stayed indoors, markets were better managed, citizens followed strict rules of containment zones if cases were found.” Nitin Arte, assistant municipal commissioner of B ward, said, “There are a lot of international travellers in my ward. So I was very concerned. In the first few weeks itself, we began to trace international flyers, check their travel history, quarantine them and their families. That helped the situation right in the beginning.” Arte said the maximum number of fever camps were arranged in the initial days, which helped prevent suspected cases from socialising in the community.Amin Patel, the legislator from this area and whose jurisdiction covers all of B ward and a part of C ward, said, “As for B ward, there are many open markets that attract buyers especially during festivals [like Eid]. This ward has a high Muslim population. So in March itself we segregated the markets and what used to function on one road, was spread out to four roads.” An officer from C ward said, “There are pockets of high population density in this ward, and there are also large commercial areas, which are closed due to the lockdown. This helped the overall figure of cases in the ward to remain under control. There is a high floating population here that is not coming to the ward due to the lockdown.”Atul Shah, corporator and ward committee chairman of C and D wards, said, “There are a few pockets in C ward that have cluster cases. I have already written to the municipal commissioner expressing concern about these pockets. But the situation in the rest of the ward is better. We do not have too many contact cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/south-mumbai-wards-keep-covid-count-in-check/story-kPn03IXMJvbinWBmIW8jXO.html
30-05-2020||Mumbai||After R N Cooper, KEM, Nair hospitals ask UG students to join Covid fight||A day after Andheri’s RN Cooper Hospital (HBT Medical College) issued a circular requesting its third- and fourth-year Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS) batches to return to campus and help the hospital with Covid-19 work, MBBS students of KEM Hospital (Seth GS Medical College) and BYL Nair Hospital (TN Medical College) have received similar directions from their institutes.While Cooper Hospital had released an official circular in this matter, students of KEM Hospital received messages over WhatsApp asking them to voluntarily join the medical team.“We know the BMC (Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation) has been thinking about this for a while but didn’t know that the institutes were going to implement it too. Nobody knows what sort of work the students will be expected to do,” said the parent of a third-year student from KEM Hospital.In the message circulated on Saturday, students were informed that they will mostly be given counselling and other ground-level work, and will have no direct contact with patients. “For now, students living in Mumbai and hostelites currently stuck in Mumbai have been invited to join the workforce. Only interested students can approach the dean (academics) and the job will be explained well,” states the message.The circular further mentions that the number of days served by each student on Covid-19 duty will be considered part of their bond service, and will accordingly be deducted from the compulsory bond service they have to clear once they graduate. “All the students will mostly be paid ₹30,000 a month as stated by the government,” the message reads.Some students said they were happy to help. “The message clearly mentions that the job will be more of counselling work. Considering it to be our duty, I won’t mind helping,” said a third-year student.BYL Nair Hospital also requested MBBS students to join relief efforts as ‘Covid warriors’. Nair Hospital dean, Dr Mohan Joshi, in a circular, on Saturday informed students that their transport, accommodation and food will be taken care of by the hospital if they join.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/after-r-n-cooper-kem-nair-hospitals-ask-ug-students-to-join-covid-fight/story-MjvkRk3jh59s4sAZ0J6obI.html
30-05-2020||City||Honour killing: Hisar man shot dead by wife’s brother, his aides||A man was shot dead by his wife’s brother and two armed assailants in Hisar’s Barwala on Saturday, police said.The deceased, identified as Narender Kumar (23 ) of Chirod village in Hisar, had married Pooja of the same village two years ago.In her complaint to the police, Pooja said she had married Narender against her family’s wishes.“Today, my brother Sachin along with his two accomplices came on two bikes and shot my husband when he was working in his mechanic shop in Barwala,” she added.Barwala SHO Kuldeep Singh said they have registered a case of murder against Sachin and two others.“We have launched a manhunt to nab the accused,” the SHO added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/honour-killing-hisar-man-shot-dead-by-wife-s-brother-his-aides/story-BwnII4xI6dj6xToPftK8rJ.html
30-05-2020||Delhi||Helps, car cleaners, cooks turn labourers as housing societies shun them||It is 10am on Saturday and 33-year-old Gayatri Devi is in a queue with over two dozen men and women to collect her safety gear from the contractor at a west Delhi construction site. She is new to the site. Until the lockdown, her mornings were spent in sweeping, mopping and washing utensils at two households, where she worked as domestic help. But today will be a first --- of lifting bricks and carrying loads at the construction site. “I used to do the household chores in four houses in Paschim Vihar. From March 17, my employers asked me not to come to work because of the coronavirus scare. I called them all on May 1, asking if I could resume work but none of them allowed me back. Since then, I have lost the job at one house and the other three employers are either evading my calls or asking me to wait for some more weeks,” Devi said.Many like Devi, who were earlier employed as house helps, cooks, car cleaners, gardeners and hawkers, have lost their livelihoods in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic and are now turning up at construction sites across the city looking for work. Many of them were unable to return to their villages in other states -- the interstate bus and train services have only started recently -- and are desperate for work.Ram Kishore, used to wash cars in Janakpuri, is now working as a labourer at another site. “I have never worked as a labourer, but I was running out of money and finally managed to find this job. It has just been two days but the contractor has agreed to pay me a week’s wages in advance, which will help me sail through for some time. People stopped stepping out and gated colonies were not allowing us to enter to resume our work. Till when can we hang on to the hope that they will call us back? We need something to survive,” he said.A senior PWD official said the a lot of first-time workers are being engaged at different project sites, but their work is limited to unskilled labour only. “Some of the experienced labour hands have returned to their home towns after Shramik Special trains were started. So there remains a scarcity of workforce. The inexperienced workers are limited to performing unskilled work such as moving construction materials from one place to another and digging work, among others,” the official said, requesting anonymity.Contractors with the public works department (PWD) and Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) confirmed many first-timers have joined their workforce as unskilled labourers. These people are being recruited for lifting and transferring construction material and cleaning the site and are paid around ₹500 to ₹600 a day. The contractors say they are also benefitting from these new recruits as they are filling up for labourers who have left for their home towns.“We had a requirement of 150 labourers in March, but the work was stopped after the lockdown. Even though we are providing in-situ living arrangements for labourers, the first batch of 28 workers left the site in the second week of April and now after the government started trains to neighbouring states, 79 more have left,” Prashant Prajapati, a contractor with the DMRC, said.After Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the a nationwide lockdown starting March 25, to control the spread of the infectious Covid-19, the national capital saw a mass exodus of migrant workers who wanted to return to their home towns. With factories and small scale industries shut, a large majority of these workers were jobless overnight. While in the initial days, many started walking to their native places, in the absence of all other modes of transport, over the last two weeks, the state governments of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana are arranging for buses to ferry natives home. The resumption of train services has also helped migrant workers leave Delhi.A contractor who works with the PWD said \many people who had no experience of working at a construction site have joined the workforce in the last one week at different construction projects such as Barapullah phase-3 elevated corridor, tunnel road project near Pragati Maidan, Shastri Park and Seelampur flyover project among others.“There is a shortage of labour in the market hence anyone who is willing to work is welcome. It is hard to arrange for labourers these days. Most of those working at construction sites are migrant labourers from UP, Bihar, Odisha, Jharkhand and Madhya Pradesh. Some of them had already gone even before the lockdown happened while many left during exodus in April and later in May after relaxations were given,” the contractor, who wished not to be named, said.He added that this workforce is also temporary. They will return to their original work places once things get back to normal.The PWD is helming some of important projects such as construction of 1.2-km-long tunnel between Purana Qila road near Mathura Road and the Ring Road, which is part of ITPO Pragati Maidan Redevelopment Project; Barapullah phase-3 elevated corridor; Ashram underpass; flyovers at Seelampur and Shastri Park; and Benito-Juarez Road underpass in south Delhi. The deadline and the cost of the projects has already been extended and increased because of the lockdown.The Delhi Metro on the other hand, has six construction sites across the city. This includes the phase-4 projects as well as the Airport Express Line expansion in Dwarka. PWD’s engineer-in-chief PK Vats said, “Construction work has been resumed at different project sites and all the guidelines are being followed. There is an issue of labourers but it is being managed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/helps-car-cleaners-cooks-turn-labourers-as-housing-societies-shun-them/story-c4xsnXdxoonurkT2nTiCWN.html
30-05-2020||City||Delhi Cong leaders helping migrants by arranging transport||New Delhi: Delhi Congress leaders are stepping up to help migrant labourers and visitors stuck in the national capital to reach their hometowns in the neighbouring states. Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee (DPCC) vice president Abhishek Dutt on Saturday arranged 14 buses to ferry migrant labourers and people who had reached the city for treatment at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), to take them to their hometowns. These buses carried nearly 300 passengers to different locations in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh.“Ever since a migrant screening centre was opened in Lajpat Nagar, we have seen a large number of migrant labourers coming in, who could not be accommodated in trains and buses arranged by the government and they were desperate to get to their villages,” said Dutt. These buses carried elderly citizens, couples with children, differently-abled people and women, who will be dropped off at districts such as Begusarai, Madhubani, Muzaffarpur, Rae Bareli, Damoh and Chattarpur, by Sunday.“The service was free of cost and all the social distancing norms were followed while seating the passengers. All the passengers were screened for their temperatures and they will reach their destinations by Sunday,” said Dutt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-cong-leaders-helping-migrants-by-arranging-transport/story-QJzlrNGZzj57Gr1qeqaKIP.html
30-05-2020||City||With 202 fresh infections, Haryana Covid-19 tally rises to 1,923||The national capital region (NCR) district of Gurugram on Saturday witnessed its highest single-day spike with 157 Covid-19 positive cases, thus, accounting for 78% of the total 202 infections recorded in Haryana on Saturday, a health department bulletin said. The total number of cases in Haryana stand at 1,923. Gurugram alone accounts for more than one-third of the cumulative Covid-19 cases across the state. This is the first time in the city as well as in Haryana that over 157 cases have been reported in 24 hours. The previous highest single-day spike of 115 Covid-19 cases was recorded on Friday. From about 300 Covid-19 cases till May 24, the numbers have shot up by 377 cases in the last one week. On Thursday, over 68 fresh cases were reported. The numbers increased to 115 on Friday and 157 on Saturday, taking the tally to 667. Out of these, 224 patients have been discharged and 450 are undergoing treatment in various hospitals or are under home isolation. The total number of deaths in the city stands at three.Seeing the surge in cases, the district administration on Saturday issued a statement that majority of the cases are asymptomatic and do not need special medical attention other than periodic observation at home or institution. It said that detailed Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) will be issued for sampling, home isolation and containment zones etc.Meanwhile, Faridabad, which had registered 31 positive cases a day before, reported 32 fresh infections on Saturday.Haryana home minister Anil Vij had blamed the movement of people from Delhi to Haryana NCR districts for the sharp increase of Covid cases in the state. Vij said most cases were being reported from four districts abutting the national capital—Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat, and Jhajjar. Vij, who also holds the charge of health portfolio, had earlier this week sought stringency in free movement of people from the national capital following an increase in infections. 65-year-old woman dies due to virusA 65-year-old woman died due to Covid-19 in Sonepat on Friday night, taking the death toll in the state to 20. Deputy commissioner Shyam Lal Punia said the 65-year-old woman from Kheri Gujjar village was admitted at the Bhagat Phool Medical College for Women at Khanpur Kalan. “She died during treatment on Friday night. This is the second death in the district,” he said. 13 fresh infections in Sonepat Thirteen more people have tested positive for the virus in Sonepat. The new cases include a 25-year-old CRPF personnel of Barwasni village, six cases from Ferozpur Bangar village, four from Kundli and two others. The DC said the patients have been sent to the isolation ward at Bhagat Phool Medical College for Women in Khanpur Kalan. Undertrial tests positive in Hisar A 34-year-old inmate at Hisar Jail has tested positive for Covid-19. The undertrial, a resident of Fatehabad, was arrested by the Hisar women’s police on May 27 on molestation charges. Hisar civil surgeon Dr Yogesh Kumar said, “The undertrial was produced before the judicial magistrate on May 28. The next day he tested positive for the infection.” “We will trace the patient’s travel history and collect samples of his contacts. We have started collecting samples of inmates, jail officials, and court employees,” the CMO said. Two more cases in Karnal Two people, including a 26-year-old woman, have tested positive in Karnal, taking the district tally to 50. Chief medical officer Ashwini Ahuja said the infected woman is a resident of Mangal colony and the other patient is a 40-year-old man from Dayalpura Gate locality. He said both have a travel history to Delhi and were asymptomatic. They have been admitted at a Covid-19 hospital in Mullana Medical College of Ambala district and their 12 family members have been isolated. 54-year-old man tests positive in Panipat A 54-year-old man has tested positive for the virus in Panipat, taking the district tally to 61. Chief medical officer Sant Lal Verma said the patient belongs to Krishanpura locality and had recently returned from Delhi. He has been admitted to the isolation ward of BPS Medical College, Khanpur Kalan, Sonepat. His family members have been quarantined and their samples will be sent for testing. Taxi driver tests positive in Kaithal A 35-year-old taxi driver has tested positive in Kaithal, taking the district count to 18. Chief medical officer Rakesh Sehl said the patient was in contact with infected persons from Manas village. He has been sent to a Covid-19 hospital in Agroha of Hisar. The CMO said his family members have been quarantined and their samples will also be sent for testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-202-fresh-infections-haryana-covid-19-tally-rises-to-1-923/story-sHNSnU4JH18G54zUWHZu8L.html
30-05-2020||Mumbai||Desk separators, disinfection tunnels, face mask dispensers — Architects offer solutions for offices||How do we get back to crowded offices with colleagues sitting in close proximity to each other? How do we assemble in common areas and have lunch with several others seated in the cafeteria? As firms prepare to resume work, Mumbai-based architects have now created an open-source handbook for businesses to adopt affordable, easy-to-execute solutions that can be retrofitted in existing office spaces post lockdown.The ‘Back to Work: Rethinking, re-evaluating, retrofitting for safer workplaces’ handbook has been created by the co-founders of The Blank Slate, an architectural firm. The guide includes interventions to be adopted at entrances, lobbies, workstations, conference rooms, cabins, dining areas, and restrooms.For workstations, the handbook suggests reserving chairs and tables for use by a single person, eliminating alternate desks from usage or setting up panels to divide the desks, if elimination is not possible, and creation of solo-work corners.It also suggests making use of foot-operated sanitiser dispensers at entrances to limit contact, disinfection tunnels to sanitise those entering the building, face mask dispensers, face recognition systems, and automated doors.For conference rooms that are frequently used for meetings, the handbook suggests the use of single-seater sofas or fixed chairs at a distance, protective sheets to cover contact areas, one user to operate the projector, and immediate cleaning after the meeting is over.Bina Bhatia, principal architect and founder, The Blank Slate, said, “We have looked at providing two types of solutions – one is design-based and the second is problematic where we also look at densities and staggered timings as a solution.”Co-founder Pratik Daulat said, “We have also looked at simple solutions like signages that look at one-way circulation of employees so there is adherence to social distancing.”While the handbook can be referred to by all offices of different scales, it can also be adopted for hospitality spaces, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/desk-separators-disinfection-tunnels-face-mask-dispensers-architects-offer-solutions-for-offices/story-IpHOj5Dv2lgINbmeG5X24J.html
30-05-2020||City||Feroze Gandhi Colony murder: Police probe gang rivalry, links to liquor mafia||Gurugram: A day after a 38-year-old mobile shop owner was shot dead in Feroze Gandhi Colony, the police on Saturday said that they were probing his links to gangster Binder Gujjar, suggesting that the murder could be related to gang rivalry. Several crime investigation teams have initiated a probe to trace the suspects. A post-mortem examination conducted on Saturday revealed that the victim was shot 30 times. The police said the victim, Vikas Dureja alias Vicky alias Anda, was a close aide of Gujjar and had been involved in some of his business dealings since Gujjar was arrested last year by the Mumbai crime branch for an alleged conspiracy to kill his rival Sandeep Gadoli. A police official privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said, “We are looking into Gujjar’s business dealings in real estate and liquor and trying to find out if the victim was actively involved in the ‘handling’ any of these deals. Some of Gujjar’s associates were smuggling liquor in Delhi-NCR during the lockdown. It is possible that a rival gang wanted to usurp his territory and get into illegal liquor smuggling in the city by plotting this murder.”The police said they are also probing if Sandeep Gadoli’s henchmen had planned the murder as an act of possible revenge for Gadoli’s killing. The rivalry between Gujjar and Gadoli had resulted in a turf war lasting for several years and leading to several inter-gang killings.On Friday around 2.45pm, Dureja was on his way to his office when unidentified suspects had rained bullets at him after blocking his way in Feroze Gandhi Colony. The victim had tried to reverse his car when an SUV, in which at least three suspects were seated, rammed his car from behind. The suspects had fired gunshots at a close range at his car and he had succumbed to injuries from multiple gunshot wounds on the spot. The police had recovered 27 gunshot cartridges from the spot. Deepak Mathur, forensic expert, who conducted the autopsy, said, “The victim sustained 30 gunshot wounds on his neck, trunk, abdomen, chest and forearms and succumbed to injuries.”The police have registered a case of murder against unidentified suspects after the victim’s wife did not name anyone in the FIR. Preet Pal Sangwan, the assistant commissioner of police (ACP), crime, said, “The suspects are yet to be identified. We are yet to arrive on the evidence of the victim’s involvement in criminal activities. The police are looking at all angles, including gang rivalry.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/feroze-gandhi-colony-murder-police-probe-gang-rivalry-links-to-liquor-mafia/story-HLJrAMFB2QnQ6rPTCJCkFO.html
30-05-2020||City||Mohali DC forms teams to check quality of Kharif crop seeds||With complaints of substandard Kharif crop seeds pouring in, Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan has set up teams to check the quality of seeds being supplied in the district.“Teams comprising block agriculture officers and other employees have been constituted to ensure availability of top quality seeds for basmati, maize, dal and paddy in the forthcoming kharif season,” Dayalan said.The teams started conducting checks on various seed dealers on May 9 and collected 27 samples of various seeds for checking their quality, which have been sent to laboratories. Besides, farmers have been allowed to keep seeds of PR variety, and 29 samples of such seeds have been sent for testing by the department, at its own cost. Apart from this, stock registers, sale bills and bills received are also being checked.PR-128 and PR-129 breeds of paddy seeds have been released by PAU, Ludhiana, this year. These seeds are not available privately, and farmers are cultivating them on experimental basis by purchasing them from the Krishi Vigyan Kendar in Fatehgarh Sahib, Ropar, Narayangarh and PAU.The district has 28,000 hectares of area under paddy and 1,200 hectares under basmati, thus requiring 6,000 quintal seeds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-dc-forms-teams-to-check-quality-of-kharif-crop-seeds/story-X0quLepYuCQPX1Z176TbkJ.html
30-05-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram records highest single-day spike of 157 cases; total count at 677||Gurugram saw its highest single-day spike in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases on Saturday with 157 new cases. The surge takes the city’s Covid-19 tally to 677 cases, according to the state health bulletin. This is the first time in the city as well as in Haryana that over 157 cases have been reported in 24 hours. Haryana’s cumulative number of positive cases stands at 1,923 with Gurugram contributing nearly 35% to the overall figure.The previous highest single-day spike of 115 Covid-19 cases was recorded on Friday. From about 317 Covid-19 cases on May 26, the numbers have shot up by 377 cases in the last three days. On Thursday, over 68 fresh cases were reported. The numbers increased to 115 on Friday and 157 on Saturday, taking the tally to 667 cases.Out of these, 224 patients have been discharged and 450 cases are undergoing treatment in various hospitals or are under home isolation. The total number of deaths in the city stands at three.Seeing the surge in the number of Covid-19 cases the district administration, on Saturday, issued a statement that the majority of the cases are asymptomatic and do not need special medical attention other than periodic observation at home or institution. It said that a detailed Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) will be issued for sampling, home isolation and containment zones etc.Health officials said that due to ease in Lockdown 4.0 and inter-state movement between Delhi and Gurugram, the number of coronavirus cases have gone up. They said that it is likely that with the reopening of areas outside containment zones from June 1, as per the guidelines issued by Union ministry of home affairs guidelines on late Saturday evening, the number will increase even further. The administration, however, in its statement said that there is adequate medical preparedness and all the shortcomings noticed in hospitals or while collecting samples have been streamlined.“The numbers will go up in Gurugram as more people will start commuting. Contact tracing will remain the focal point, while ensuring that Covid-19 patients with symptoms are not denied treatment by any private hospital. We are also increasing the capacity of our critical care facility in hospitals like Medeor Hospital, IMT Manesar to at least 150 beds. Private hospitals have also started taking Covid-19 positive patients,” said Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, chief medical officer(CMO).Health care workers and patients going to hospitals continue to be another group of higher risk infection. Data shows that more than 30 health care workers have been infected with SARS-CoV-2(the virus that causes Covid-19) in the last two months. Also, cases have been reported in May, where patients undergoing treatment for other medical illnesses contracted the virus in the hospitals. “This is a major concern,” said a member of the rapid response team.Box: Rise in Covid-19 cases in GurugramMarch 30 : 22April 25: 65May 26: 317May 30: 677||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-records-highest-single-day-spike-of-157-cases-total-count-at-677/story-0vrE713eynaRci1R7slXNP.html
30-05-2020||Gurugram||Despite being made mandatory, wearing a mask not a priority for many Gurugram residents||While wearing a mask when stepping out of the house has been made mandatory by the state government and is also considered as the primary defense against contracting the coronavirus disease, many people in Gurugram are still seen without masks. Many residents said that a lot of people are not following preventive measure and are visiting public spaces without proper face covers. Be it morning walkers enjoying the morning air or people shopping in Sadar Bazar, many people can be spotted without a mask even as the number of Covid-19 in the district keeps rising. In the last three days, nearly 350 cases have been reported in the district. Members of the city market associations said many people often take offense when asked to wear masks. “I asked two-three young men in the Sector 22 market to wear masks, but they objected to my request and even got a bit aggressive. This has happened before also, so now we prefer to offer masks only to those who are willing to take it,” said Rakesh Malik, president, Sector 22 market association.A shopkeeper in Sector 23, who sells shoes, said he has placed some disposable masks at his shop for customers, however, many choose not to wear it.On Wednesday, the state government had announced that anyone found not wearing masks in public spaces or spitting in open would have to pay a fine of ₹500. The administration said that it has formed teams to ensure that people across the city wear masks. “Our teams are monitoring public spaces and fines to 126 persons (till Saturday evening) have been issued for not wearing masks and spitting in public spaces. We will continue to carry on such inspections. We are also using social media and other traditional platforms to reach out to people and make them aware of preventive measures against Covid-19,” said Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, Gurugram. Despite the stress by authorities on wearing masks, many choose not to cover their faces at all prompting some to call out such behaviour on social media. “We are horribly irresponsible as human beings. I had a long discussion with my neighbour who was not wearing a mask and downplayed the tragedy and blamed the government (sic),” wrote Rohit Mishra, a city resident on the micro-blogging site Twitter. Medical experts reiterated that wearing a mask is crucial to halt the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. “This is a droplet infection and it is important to prevent these droplets from entering the body. At present there is no vaccine against Covid-19, so wearing a mask is important. Wearing a mask correctly is equally important as many times the mouth is covered but the nose is exposed,” said Dr Vikram Aryan, who runs a private clinic on Old Gurgaon Road.Dr Aryan said despite the mounting of cases not everyone can be seen using masks. “Health care professionals need to wear N95 masks, while the general public can wear disposable medical masks or cloth masks,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/despite-being-made-mandatory-wearing-a-mask-not-a-priority-for-many-gurugram-residents/story-6YGi0vkTxDcE8vrklWqE1J.html
30-05-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram records more than 600 new cases in last 30 days; new hot spots emerge||With a surge in the number of positive cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), some of the most crowded residential areas in Gurugram are emerging as the new hot spots. As per official data, Covid-19 cases are clustered in areas such as Rajendra Park, Sector 10A, Jyoti Park, Rajeev Nagar, Ravi Nagar, Gandhi Nagar. Each of these areas have at least 10-20 cases, where transmission started with one family member and affected their close contacts. Health officials said that the relaxation in the lockdown is leading to a surge in the numbers. Presently, the Covid-19 tally in Gurugram stands at 677 cases. There are 450 active cases, 224 discharged cases and 3 deaths. Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, chief medical officer(CMO), said, “The spike in the cases started a week after Lockdown 4.0 started on May 17. With the relaxation in the lockdown, people started moving out and are commuting between the city and Delhi. It has led to the emergence of new hot spots in the city.” The Covid-19 situation in Gurugram has seen a major change this week. On May 26, the total cases breached the 300-mark, and in the last three days alone over 340 people have been tested positive. Going by the data, on April 30, the total number of confirmed cases in the city were 68. In the last 30 days, the city has, therefore, seen a spike of 609 coronavirus cases. A major surge has been reported in the last three days. On Thursday, 68 positive cases were reported and on Friday 115. The biggest spike of 157 cases was seen on Saturday, as per the state health bulletin.Data shows Covid-19 clusters have emerged in Sector 10A (20 cases), Rajeev Nagar (18), Sirhaul (30), Khandsa (34), Rajendra Park (13), Chakkarpur (11) and 10 cases each in Ravi Nagar and Jyoti Park. A few cases have been reported in the condominiums of Sushant Lok, DLF-4, New Palam Vihar. In other parts of the city such as Shivaji Park, Basai Enclave, Jawahar Nagar, DLF Phase-2, atleast three to six cases have been reported. According to Punia, more than 85% of the fresh cases are asymptomatic in nature. Punia said, “Out of the 450 active cases, more than 100 positive patients are under home isolation, while those with mild symptoms have been admitted in designated Covid-19 hospital and other private hospitals of the city.” Punia said that in most of the cases, a male member of the family was infected and transmitted the virus to other family members. “We are also seeing that if one person in the family had the onset of mild symptoms and was tested positive, he/she ensured that other family members also got tested. They are also turning out to be asymptomatic but positive, due to which the numbers are rapidly increasing,” he said.The health department is carrying out surveillance in these hot spots by collecting samples proactively, officials said. ”We have collected not only the samples of people with Influenza-like illness but also their close contacts who were suspected cases. Our teams are creating awareness regarding social distancing and wearing masks,” Punia said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-records-more-than-600-new-cases-in-last-30-days-new-hot-spots-emerge/story-srrgDmF4taseGNLqQqizdI.html
30-05-2020||Noida||Man who assaulted Chinese woman in Greater Noida arrested||Police on Friday evening nabbed a 60-year-old man for allegedly having assaulted a Chinese national while she was feeding a stray dog in front of a Greater Noida high-rise on May 25 . The police have invoked stringent sections of the Indian Penal Code against the suspect.The man, identified as Amar Pal Singh , police said was on the run for five days. He was produced in front of a magistrate, who denied him bail and sent him to police custody till Monday, when he will be produced in front of a district judge.“We had registered an FIR, arrested the man and had made a plea against his bail. The magistrate denied the suspect bail on Saturday. A charge sheet had been filed, and the accused had been sent to the jail,” said Sujeet Upadhyay, Station House Officer (SHO), Beta-2 Police station, Greater Noida.The victim, a woman who lives with another Chinese women at ATS Green Paradiso, Greater Noida and works at an electronics company, said that she was relieved to see her assaulter behind bars and hoped that the court does ‘justice’.“I am definitely at ease now. He deserves to be punished as we have come to know that he has misbehaved with other women in the past as well,” said the victim, who sustained multiple injuries, including some on her private parts, after being assaulted.On Monday, the woman was allegedly beaten up by a fellow resident using a heavy wooden stick because she was feeding a stray dog that had a fight with the pet of the accused. A non-cognizable report (NCR) was registered by the police the same day that did not mention the name of the accused, and slapped only section 323 of the Indian Penal Code (voluntary hurt) in the report.Calling out the alleged “inaction” by the police, activists from People for Animal (PFA) met the victim and provided her legal help and demanded strict penal including section 354 (B) (assault of a woman) of IPC.“Finally the man is behind the bars and the victim can feel secure. I thank the commissioner of police and the IO who did a tremendous job. Also we request and hope for speedy action by the police in future when an animal feeder and a woman is attacked,” said Kaveri Rana, president, PFA, Gautam Budh Nagar.“The investigation so far was satisfactory, the bail was rejected by the remand magistrate, and is pending before district judge. We hope that the bail is denied by the district judge as well,” said Vishal Gautam, legal counsel of PFA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/man-who-assaulted-chinese-woman-in-greater-noida-arrested/story-dTg4016bEASAHbNJhSpLuN.html
30-05-2020||Noida||Health department serves notices to six private labs over ‘false’ Covid-19 reports||The Gautam Budh Nagar district health department has issued notices to six private laboratories operating in Delhi-NCR for allegedly declaring eight people of the district ‘falsely’ positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Irked with the alleged false reports, district magistrate Suhas LY said such false positive reports cause panic among the residents. “The chief medical officer (CMO) has been asked to write to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) regarding the authentication and assessment of these six private laboratories. Since the number of sample collection centres has increased in the district, we will certainly keep a close watch on all tests being conducted by the private laboratories,” he said.District surveillance officer Dr Sunil Dohre said at least eight people were falsely tested positive for Covid-19 by the private labs and during the re-examination at government facilities they tested negative. “All eight persons were found negative and were discharged from government hospitals. We have already issued notices to six private pathological laboratories operating in Delhi, Noida and other places, for giving false Covid-19 positive reports to the eight persons. The false reports have caused mental trauma to these persons,” he said.Dr Dohre further said the reports in question that were provided by the six private laboratories were later re-examined and verified by the National Institute of Biologicals (NIB), the Super Speciality Paediatric Hospital, and the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS).“All these reports were later negative at the government facilities. The CMO has also issued strict directives to the private laboratories over their static and mobile sample-collection centres regarding Covid-19 tests. They have been asked to collect the samples strictly as per Covid-19 norms, and the samples must be duly verified by the in-charge of sample collection in the district health department,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/health-department-serves-notices-to-six-private-labs-over-false-covid-19-reports/story-RFOvTz9KDvF3gukLkEIJDK.html
30-05-2020||Noida||Woman duped of ₹9.5 lakh on pretext of upgrading SIM card from 3G to 4G||A 37-year-old woman was allegedly duped of ₹9.5 lakh by unidentified persons on the pretext of upgrading her mobile SIM card from 3G to 4G technology. A case has been registered at the Sector 39 police station in the matter.The victim, Varsha (single name), who is a resident of Sector 108, in her complaint to the police alleged that she was first contacted by the suspects on May 7.“Around 10.30am, I got a call from a person pretending to be from a mobile network company. He said that the company will upgrade my network to better technology, and I agreed to the offer. However, he said that for the new technology to get activated, my phone might lose network for 48-72 hours. In the afternoon, my SIM card stopped working which I assumed was a part of their procedure,” the woman said in the police complaint.However, the SIM card didn’t get reactivated till May 13, after which her family contacted the customer care of the network provider, she said. She was told by the customer care that no such request had been raised on their end.“ Later when I contacted the staff at my bank’s office in Sector 110, I found that almost ₹9.53 lakh had been withdrawn from my account, including two fixed deposits, in two transactions that were carried out on May 8 and 11. I registered a complaint with the bank’s customer care also. The money was withdrawn despite me not sharing any OTP (one-time password) or any other bank details with anyone,” she said in the complaint. She said she suspects that for such a breach, someone from the bank may be involved in duping her.Based on her complaint, a case was registered at the Sector 39 police station against unidentified person(s) under sections 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the IT Act.“A probe in the matter is underway, while the cyber cell is working on tracing the transactions. Due legal action will be taken,” said a police officer from the Sector 39 police station.A similar incident had taken place on May 7 wherein a resident of Sector 77 had been allegedly duped of ₹1.57 lakh in two transactions on the same pretext of upgrading his SIM card. The suspect had pretended to be from the same network provider, and had even offered the correct customer care helpline details. The victim’s account is also with the same bank but in a different branch. An FIR was registered in the matter at the Sector 49 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/woman-duped-of-9-5-lakh-on-pretext-of-upgrading-sim-card-from-3g-to-4g/story-DqKEgB2HPRKdvQ8zNg12xK.html
30-05-2020||City||Two vehicle robbers nabbed following police encounter||Two suspected vehicle robbers were arrested by the Jarcha police on Friday night following an encounter. The two suspects, one of whom sustained injuries in the encounter, carried a reward of ₹25,000 each on their arrests.The suspects, identified as Sonu and Aadesh, were involved in the armed robbery of a motorcycle on May 26 in Jarcha, police said. The duo and their two accomplices had allegedly injured the vehicle owner during the robbery.“Following a tip that the suspects were in the area, we intercepted them during checking. However, they tried to flee and fired at the police team. One of the suspects, Sonu, was injured in the retaliatory firing while Aadesh had managed to flee. He was arrested later during the combing operation,” said deputy commissioner of police, zone 3, Rajesh Kumar Singh.The suspects have a history of vehicle theft in Gautam Budh Nagar and other neighbouring districts, the police said. They recovered a motorcycle and a countrymade pistol from the suspects. The injured suspect was taken to the district hospital for treatment.One of their accomplices had been arrested in an encounter hours after the Jarcha robbery while the three others had fled. The second accomplice was also arrested in an encounter later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-vehicle-robbers-nabbed-following-police-encounter/story-zolihPmsJXJTorn1AKfT9H.html
30-05-2020||City||Patchy rain to keep temp below 40 degrees C in NCR, say weather scientists||Noida: With temperatures well under season’s average against the unbearable heat last week, weather analysts have predicted that the national capital region will stay clear of heatwaves for at least a week.Between May 22 and 27, Delhi-NCR in general, and especially parts of western Uttar Pradesh – Noida and Ghaziabad – suffered a heat wave and an intense heat wave with the maximum temperature reaching up to 46 degrees Celsius on May 27. However, with a western disturbance and change of the wind direction by Wednesday, May 28, the heat wave started to abate. On May 29, the region also witnessed an average 3.5mm rainfall, with the India Meteorological Department (IMD), predicting light rain on Sunday May 31.According to the weather department, the effect of the current western disturbance will stay till at least Sunday, with maximum temperature not likely to exceed 40 degrees.On Saturday, the maximum temperature in Noida and Ghaziabad was recorded at 34.8 degrees Celsius, six notches below the season’s average, against 33 degrees a day earlier and 41 degrees a day before that. The minimum temperature was recorded at 22 degrees, same as a day earlier.“The region will witness patchy rain. However, it would be enough to keep temperatures from going above 40 degrees,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patchy-rain-to-keep-temp-below-40-degrees-c-in-ncr-say-weather-scientists/story-HYgIkgbwa2Gd0yKw1xvIJI.html
30-05-2020||City||Noida: Despite admin’s directives, RWAs issue their own guidelines on entry of maids||NOIDA: Even as the Gautam Budh Nagar administration has directed that domestic helps and other self-employed persons like electricians and plumbers will not be restricted to enter the residential societies, some residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) in the district have started issuing their own set of instructions.The district administration had on May 16 declared Jalvayu Towers in Sector 47 a containment zone after detection of one Covid-19 case from tower C of the society. But, on May 26, the district magistrate had ordered to lift the ban from the whole society, except the tower from where the positive case was found. Debesh Banerjee, a resident of the society that has eight towers, said that despite administrative orders, the RWA members are not allowing the entry of domestic helps, washerman, car cleaners or even delivery persons of essential items. “The RWA members refuse to abide by the guidelines issued by the DM’s office on May 20, which allowed the entry of maids and other service personnel in residential colonies, except for containment zones. Since only the affected tower is under containment, there should be free movement of goods and services in other towers. But, the RWA here is restricting everything. Now, they say that they will issue their own guidelines.”Echoing similar views, Vimal Dikshit, another resident of Jalvayu Towers, said, “We have tried to expose the RWA members’ authoritarian approach before the administration many times, but all our efforts have proved futile.”Suraj, a washerman who lives near the society building, said that when he reached the society gate wearing face mask on Friday morning, the guards didn’t permit him to go inside. “I was going there as many residents had asked me to collect their clothes for ironing,” he said.When contacted, Manish Shukla, general secretary of Jalvayu Towers RWA, said that the society was under containment from May 16, and the containment, as per a new directive by the DM, was removed from full campus to tower C only on May 27. “After the order from the DM, the RWA has started working on new guidelines for the entry of maids, washermen and drivers into the society. While allowing them, we have to make a comprehensive process for verification of their address and health credentials. We have to prepare ourselves to open the gates to the outside world. We intend to publish our own guidelines by Sunday evening.”Similarly, at Jalvayu Vihar in sectors 21 and 25, the RWA has issued the guidelines that all residents will have to ensure that Aarogya Setu mobile app is downloaded on the mobile phones of their domestic helps. “Please download the Aarogya Setu mobile app on your mobile device if not done already. Please also ensure that the same is downloaded on the mobile phone of your domestic help. It is also available through IVRS for feature phones. It would be advisable to convert your part time maid to full time maid, so as to minimize the movements,” the guidelines stated.When contacted, air vice marshal (retired) Pradeep Kumar, chairman of the Jalvayu Vihar RWA, said that his society does not get any grant from any source and is run on ‘no profit no loss’ basis through receipt of subscription. “If I don’t get the dues from the residents, how will I pay the staff at the gate and in the office to ensure that all precautions are observed. If a resident can claim that services be provided to him by the society, the society also has a right to insist that he clears the outstanding dues, or else the society will stop providing services, including barring the entry of maids,” Kumar said.When contacted, GB Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said that the societies do not have the power to act as an enforcing agency. “I have asked the different federations of RWAs and apartment owners’ associations (AOAs) in the district to help the administration regulate the movement of maids, drivers, and other helps. If they act as self-styled law-making bodies, stern actions will be taken against them,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-despite-admin-s-directives-rwas-issue-their-own-guidelines-on-entry-of-maids/story-tP0dqC8kxHuwe09daNn3FP.html
30-05-2020||City||Workers from nearby areas start returning to Ghaziabad as industries open||With the commencement of work at nearly 16,000 of the 27,000 industrial units in Ghaziabad, workers from nearby towns and cities, who had gone home after the nationwide lockdown to control the spread of the Covid-19 was announced, has started returning to Ghaziabad to rejoin work. According to officials, the Ghaziabad district has an estimated six lakh workers employed in the industrial and service sectors and about 2.75 lakh are already engaged in production activities in units that have opened.According to the official estimates, about 1.7 lakh migrant workers have left for their home towns till date.“A lot of migrants travelled from states like Delhi, Haryana and Punjab to get buses and trains to their home towns from Ghaziabad. With the opening of 16,000 industrial units in Ghaziabad, about 2.75 lakh workers are back on the floor. Now, we are witnessing a reverse migration of sorts as activities have opened up,” Virendra Kumar, deputy commissioner (industries), said.“During the last 10 days, 900 workers have returned from districts such as Hardoi, Kasganj, Etah, Shahjahanpur, Farukkhabad and Mainpuri, among others. We had sent our roadways buses to bring them back. We are also calling up industrial unit owners to hire roadways buses at government rates in case they wish to bring back their workers from their home towns,” he said.He said there are number of labourers who have come to Ghaziabad from other states during the lockdown and have preferred to stay out in the district.“For these workers who are from Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, etc., we are doing a skill mapping. A first set of 40 such workers were introduced to industrial unit owners and nine of them got offer letters on Saturday. The process to find jobs for the others is on,” Kumar said.The Ghaziabad district has about 27,000 units which include 5,024 small units, 149 related to medium industries and 45 heavy industrial units while the rest are under micro category and also include those in service sectors like saloons, and beauty parlours, among others.According to official estimates, about 40% of the labour force in Ghaziabad preferred to stay back while about 60% have gone to their home towns.“It is an encouraging hat about 2.75 lakh workers are back to work. At present, there is a high demand for labour and workers now have a chance of securing better wages,” Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate, Ghaziabad, said.“So we are assuming that 2.75 lakh workers who are presently on the job in industrial units did not migrate to their home towns and preferred to stay back,” he added.Meanwhile, migrants from Ghaziabad still continues to return to home towns. A train scheduled for West Bengal through Gaya and Dhanbad also left Ghaziabad junction with migrant workers on Saturday.“I work as a domestic help and no one is employing me now. My husband is employed with a company in Noida’s Sector 62 but that is also closed. So we are returning to our village in Malda (West Bengal) by train and will return only after the lockdown is lifted,” Bandana Jha, a domestic help who stays in Kanawani near Indirapuram, said.The first train to Howrah, West Bengal, from Ghaziabad left on Saturday. So far, 32 trains and about 4,700 UP Roadways buses have ferried about 1.7 lakh migrant workers to their home towns from Ghaziabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/workers-from-nearby-areas-start-returning-to-ghaziabad-as-industries-open/story-FZXtD5KfA8vpiOv3kzQrQO.html
30-05-2020||City||Greater Noida: Yeida to build road to link Jewar airport site with Yamuna Expressway||GREATER NOIDA: The Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) has decided to build a six-lane road that will provide direct connectivity from the Yamuna Expressway to the site of proposed international airport at Jewar. It will also construct a six-lane loop so that commuters can easily exit from the expressway to the airport site, officials said. On Friday, the authority issued a tender to hire a contractor for constructing the 760-metre-long road and the loop, said the officials, adding that Yeida has sanctioned Rs 74 crore for the two projects. The development comes 10 days after Zurich Airport International AG, which had won the contract for construction and operation of the Noida International Greenfield Airport project last year, got the security clearance from the Union ministry of home affairs to develop the mega project. “The contractor will be selected in a month, and it will take three months to build this road. We want to build this road well before the Swiss company Zurich International AG begins developmental work on the project,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer of Yeida and Noida International Airport Limited.The Zurich International was supposed to start the work on the airport project in April, but it got delayed due to the Covid-19 lockdown. The development work at the airport site is expected to start in August, the officials said.“Top officials of Zurich are supposed to travel to Greater Noida to sign an agreement to start work at the site whenever the international flight operations start in India. We hope international air travel will start in June,” said Singh.On May 19, Zurich International had got the security clearance from the central government to develop the Jewar airport project in Greater Noida. The Swiss company had on January 30 this year applied for the security clearance. “All approvals are in place now. The security clearance for the airport project was the most crucial one. So now, it depends on when the lockdown will be lifted. We hope that Zurich will start mobilising workforce at the site in August,” said the Yeida CEO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/greater-noida-yeida-to-build-road-to-link-jewar-airport-site-with-yamuna-expressway/story-x5onJzqurpVQHTodlzlFZP.html
30-05-2020||Mumbai||87 more cops test positive for Covid-19; 472 recover||Till Friday night, 1,390 police personnel have tested positive for Covid-19. In this 1,176 are constables and rest 214 are officers. The figure also includes 16 deaths. The silver lining is 472 police personnel have recovered from the disease and discharged. Around 87 new cases were reported on Friday. Also, another 4,448 personnel are quarantined. Besides, 65 constables and five officers from the State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) have tested positive until Friday night. Pranaya Ashok, deputy commissioner of police (operations), and Mumbai Police spokesperson confirmed the development.Sub-inspector gets warm welcomeMumbai Police took to their Twitter handle to congratulate 36-year-old police sub-inspector Atul Kshirsagar, who was in charge of the Covid-19 cell at Samta Nagar police station in Kandivali (East). Kshirsagar along with his 28-year-old wife and two sons aged six years and eight years had tested positive for Covid-19 on May 15. On May 29, they were all discharged and welcomed by the Police Colony residents. The residents clapped and showered them with flowers. Kshirsagar in charge of the Covid-19 cell for the past two months. His work was to coordinate with the BMC officials to seal buildings where Covid-19 patients were found, spread awareness and to help the BMC in contact tracing. On May 8 Kshirsagar complained of body pain and fever, but he continued to work. On May 14, the symptoms increased, after which he got himself tested at a private clinic. On May 15, he along with his wife and two children tested positive. On May 17, the entire family was shifted to a one BHK in a building converted into a Covid care isolation centre at Sai Nagar in Kandivali (West). Sharing his experience, Kshirsagar said, “The most difficult part was to deal with my two children. They were unable to sleep and kept coming near their mother. We made them sleep in one corner of the room and watched from a distance. We then slept in the morning.” For Kshirsagar, his experience working as head of Covid unit helped him in battling the disease. “The nature of my work helped me control my anxiety. The fever did not go away for nine days and I also had serious breathing issues. Yoga asanas helped me improve my breathing,” he said.On May 29, when the officer and his family were pleasantly surprised by the welcome, they received from their society members. “We were showered with flower petals. Patriotic songs were played,” the officer said.52 booked, 35 arrested on FridayThe Mumbai Police on Friday registered 22 FIRs against 52 people and arrested 35 for lockdown violations. A maximum of 15 FIRs was for gathering, five for not wearing masks and two against shops operating, despite being non-essential services. A maximum of 10 FIRs were from west region and five in the central region. Four FIRs were registered in the south, two in the east and one in the north region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/87-more-cops-test-positive-for-covid-19-472-recover/story-yWnqqajApkjotSugLyU9gM.html
30-05-2020||City||Noida: Now, migrants who want to go to hometowns do not need to register online||NOIDA: The Gautam Budh Nagar district administration has decided to use only buses for transporting migrant workers to their hometowns, saying that the number of migrants who want to go back to their home states has now significantly reduced. Administration officials also said that now the migrants who want to go to their hometowns do not need to register themselves online.“They can reach Morna or Kasna bus depot and we will arrange for buses. For example, those migrants who want to go to Mahoba in UP and Chhattarpur in Madhya Pradesh need to reach Kasna. We have arranged a bus for such migrants,” said Diwakar Singh, additional district magistrate, Gautam Budh Nagar.The officials said that the operations of Shramik Special trains in the district will be suspended from Monday. However, they said that a train will be arranged when adequate number of migrants are ready to go to their hometowns.On Sunday, the administration is sending one train each to West Bengal and Bihar, which could be the last trains from GB Nagar, said the officials.Till date, the district administration has sent at least 125,000 migrants via trains and buses to different states, including Bihar, West Bengal, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh.“Of 125,000 migrants, we sent 25,000 via trains and the rest were provided journey in buses. But now, we are sending migrants in buses to nearby cities, mostly in Western UP,” said Singh.“Now almost all the migrants have gone to their respective towns. And we hardly get any request for buses or trains. However, buses will be available for the migrants at Noida’s Morna and Greater Noida’s Kasna daily from 7am,” he said.The officials said that due to low registration of migrants many trains and buses operated with 60% occupancy in the last few days. On Friday and Saturday morning, only about 10 migrants turned up to go to Bihar, eastern UP and Madhya Pradesh.The officials said that even migrants who want to go to Western UP cities are not much in numbers. “But we are providing buses to everyone who is turning up at the two depots,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-now-migrants-who-want-to-go-to-hometowns-do-not-need-to-register-online/story-531laAjd07SchrgZwzAJJI.html
30-05-2020||City||Stalker murdered maid found dead in Panchkula house, arrested: Police||The 22-year-old domestic help found dead in a Sector-16 house in Panchkula was murdered by a stalker, police said on Saturday.The victim, Preeti, native of Sultanpur, Uttar Pradesh, was found dead in a tub in the backyard of her employer’s six-marla house on March 28. The accused, Mukul Kumar, 24, of Mauli village, Chandigarh, was arrested on Friday night with the help of Preeti’s phone call details, police said.During the probe, the woman’s family members, who are settled in Panchkula’s Budanpur village, revealed that Kumar, a painter, had been harassing her to marry him, but Preeti had turned him down. He had since been threatening her.“On May 28 evening, he entered the house of Preeti’s employer and strangled her with a plastic rope and fled,” said a police official, privy to the investigation.Kumar has been booked under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code. He was produced before a local court on Saturday and sent to judicial custody. VITCTIM TOOK OVER MOTHER’S JOB Preeti had started working at the Sector-16 house around a fortnight ago to help the house owner, who is in her 70s, and lives alone. Her mother previously worked at the house.The elderly woman’s three daughters are married and settled elsewhere.The murder had come to light after a neighbour spotted the landlady sitting in her backyard for long even when it was raining. The neighbour had sounded her son-in-law, who came at night and discovered Preeti’s body in the tub in the backyard and alerted the police.The report of viscera samples sent to the Haryana Forensic Science Laboratory in Madhuban is awaited to establish the exact cause of death..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/stalker-murdered-maid-found-dead-in-panchkula-house-arrested-police/story-5Z4EDLJkZXkCzJtxW6xnGL.html
30-05-2020||Mumbai||Customs sepoy succumb to Covid-19, second death in department||The customs office in Mumbai saw its second death due to Covid-19 on Friday. The sepoy who died was posted in one of the docks in Zone-1 (Customs House, near Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus). In an internal communication to its employees, customs officials asked their employees to keep their family members and colleagues safe. “This is neither the time to let our guard down nor to get disheartened in any way. I urge each one of you to adhere to all precautions and guidelines. More importantly, please stay in touch with each other to ascertain each other’s wellbeing so that, in case needed, no time is lost in reaching out and providing assistance,” read the communication accessed by HT. HT had earlier reported that six customs employees were tested positive for the virus in the third week of May. A deputy commissioner of customs, from the Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT), Nhava Sheva, tested positive for the virus on May 20.A commissioner and an assistant commissioner with the air cargo at Sahar and also an officer deployed with the directorate general of vigilance (DGoV) department in the new customs house at Fort, were found to be infected with the virus later in the same week. After HT’s report that custom officers had alleged that their seniors insist them to report to work, the department had released stricter guidelines to be followed. The instructions issued to Zone-3 on May 26, read, “In a review of the incidents of Covid-19 cases reported among all the customs and other stakeholders, I am directed to convey to operate the offices with bare minimum staff and follow the prescribed protocols. It is requested to make use of technology and also work from home during the lockdown.”Box: Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) saw a total of 50 scheduled flights which include 25 departures and 25 arrivals on Saturday. CSMIA connected to 14 sectors which were operated by five airlines. Mumbai airport catered to a total of 5,277 passengers which include 3,999 passengers at departures and 1,278 at arrivals. The highest passenger load capacity was seen on the Delhi route departing out of CSMIA. The first flight departed to Kolkata at 6:05hrs while the first flight arrived at 8:10hrs from Lucknow which was operated by SpiceJet and IndiGo, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/customs-sepoy-succumb-to-covid-19-second-death-in-department/story-kZilE132kVTokxHb913KgJ.html
30-05-2020||City||Ghaziabad asks private hospitals to create Covid-19 wards at their facilities||In order to provide better facilities to Covid-19 patients, the Ghaziabad administration on Saturday asked private hospitals in the district to start a separate wing for such cases in their respective facilities. District officials also asked the private hospitals to come together and dedicate at least one hospital for Covid care. With increasing cases, the district is preparing more Covid-19 beds. Although the Epidemic Diseases Act and the Disaster Management Act are in place due to the pandemic and the government can take over private facilities, the district administration preferred not to do so, the officials said. The district administration has already acquired a private hospital to serve as a tertiary care facility for serious cases.“We met with the management of private hospitals on improving the district’s Covid care capacity. The idea is that no patient admitted to a private hospital should be discharged if he/she tests positive for Covid-19,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. “In several cases, private hospitals refer Covid-19 patients to government hospitals. But it should not be the case now. For this, hospitals have been asked to declare their hospitals as Covid facilities. They can even pool resources and declare one hospital as a Covid facility. They can also keep a separate ward for such patients. We can make available personal protection equipment (PPE) at half of the price.”According to health department officials, such arrangement has been made as some patients prefer to be treated at private hospitals. There have been instances where patients have complained of lack of facilities at government hospitals and even raised the issue on social media.“Such private hospitals will not be acquired. Once this comes up, the guidelines will be received from the state officials and patients can take up treatment at their own cost. We are awaiting response from the hospitals, after which a list will be sent to the state officials,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer (CMO). “It will also be helpful for the health department. With this, patients will not be sent to outstation hospitals from where they can acquire another infection. We have already acquired a private hospital which is now notified as L-3 (tertiary) Covid facility with 400 beds. We are now trying to prepare 4,000 beds under government Covid care facility. About 2,000 beds have already come up while the proposal for another 2,000 is being sent to the government. The beds are being increased as we expect a surge in Covid-19 cases in the next month.”For the remaining 2,000 Covid beds, the Ghaziabad administration has acquired seven different colleges where the beds will be in form of L1 attached facilities meant for asymptomatic patients.The UP government has already come up with three-layered dedicated Covid-19 hospitals across the state. The Ghaziabad district at present has 166 L1 category beds, 100 L2 category beds and another 400 beds under L3 category meant for critical care.Meanwhile, UP government officials said that 9,091 samples were collected and sent for testing at different laboratories in the state.“We have about 12 automatic RNA extractors which are getting installed at different laboratories in the state. This will help us improve our testing capability. We have 20 two-slot tru-net machines which have been made available and another set of 55 will come in the next three-four days. One machine, which can give test results in little over one hour, will be given to each district,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, UP’s principal secretary (health).“The initial test will give us indication whether a person is positive or negative. Earlier, the second test was to be conducted by using RT-PCR method. Now, the Indian Council of Medical Research has changed protocol and second confirmatory test can be done with the same machine.These machines will help us in cases where patient is in medical emergency,” Prasad added.The machine will also help districts like Ghaziabad which are dependent on other cities like GB Nagar, Meerut or Delhi for testing of samples.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-asks-private-hospitals-to-create-covid-19-wards-at-their-facilities/story-7ewlsyyiXeAh0z8hODiH3J.html
30-05-2020||City||Ghaziabad awaits directions from state government over opening borders with Delhi||Despite the central government clearing inter-state movement from June 1 on Saturday, the Ghaziabad district administration said it will wait for orders from the state government before issuing directions to relax curbs at the borders with Delhi. The ministry of home affairs order, however, does give power to states to decide on regulating movement.The Ghaziabad-Delhi borders are already sealed and only commuters wit valid identification cards, passes or authorisation letters are allowed to cross the border. The restrictions have been in place since April 20 they were made more stringent by the district magistrate on May 25. The sealing at borders has resulted in long traffic snarls many people have started commuting to Delhi after the lockdown norms were considerably relaxed in the fourth phase on the lockdown.Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey did not respond to calls and queries about the new guidelines on Saturday night. However, the spokesperson for the district administration, said, “The district administration is waiting for directions from the state government. As and when directions arrive, a call will be taken and pubic will be informed accordingly.”The Ghaziabad authorities have restricted movement at UP-Gate, Kaushambi, Seemapuri, and border areas in Loni.In its directions rolled out on Saturday evening, the MHA said that there will be “no restrictions on inter-state and intra-state movement of persons and goods. No separate permission/ approval/ e-permit would be required for such movements.”However, the ministry said if a state/union territory proposes to regulate the movement of persons based on reasons of public health and its assessment of the situation, it would need to publicise the restrictions and the related procedures to be followed widely and well in advance.11 NEW COVID-19 CASESMeanwhile, the number of coronavirus cases in Ghaziabad reached 287 as 11 more persons tested positive for the disease on Saturday. According to health department officials, 213 patients have been discharged from different hospitals so far. Four people have succumbed to the disease in the district so far.The 11 new cases that were reported on Saturday include two cases each from Vasundhara and Vaishali localities, while one case each was reported from Akbarpur, Surya Nagar, Khoda, Indirapuram, Kaushambi, Loni and Lohiya Nagar, officials said.The district health department has also lodged a complaint against a Gurugram-based private laboratory for not informing the department o time about a Ghaziabad resident who had tested positive earlier in May.“We have also given a police complaint in connection with an incident wherein the test report of a Covid-19 positive patient was not sent to us for about 13 days in May. The patient despite testing positive did not isolate himself,and the chances of him spreading the infection cannot be ruled out. So we have given a police complaint against a Gurugram-based private laboratory which collected the sample from an unauthorised centre in Vasundhara,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer.According to officials, the samples of the patient were collected on May 6, while his test turned positive on May 7. On May 20, the health department officials came to know about the positive cases through a web portal and sent teams to pick up the patient. He was admitted to ESI Hospital on May 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-awaits-directions-from-state-government-over-opening-borders-with-delhi/story-dPI9SWHGRfmXmmJIZfbeaN.html
30-05-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand minister Satpal Maharaj quarantined after wife tests Covid-19 positive||Uttarakhand tourism minister Satpal Maharaj was quarantined on Saturday after his wife tested positive for coronavirus disease Covid-19, officials said. Forty others were also quarantined along with the minister.Maharaj’s wife, Amrita Rawat, was tested for the virus on Saturday after she complained of fever for the last few days.Earlier this week the Dehradun administration had put the minister’s private residence under quarantine following the visit of some people from Delhi during lockdown.Confirming the development, the minister said, “My wife had a fever for the last three to four days. First, we conducted an immunity test at a private lab for Covid-19 in which she tested negative.However, when her fever didn’t subside, we got her tested for Covid-19 by taking her swab samples on Saturday in which she tested positive,” he added.The minister said that his family and everyone else who came in contact with his wife will follow the health department protocol and go into quarantine. He added that his wife will be hospitalised for treatment. Ashish Srivastava, district magistrate Dehradun said, “After the minister’s wife tested positive, we found a total of 41 people including the minister who had come in contact with her. All of them will be put in quarantine as per norms.”Srivastava also said that Amrita Rawat had no travel history. “We have made a report on the case and would soon submit it to the government which will decide the future course of action,” the DM said.On Friday, Maharaj had attended the state Cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat in which other ministers and officials were present. After Saturday’s development, questions are being raised whether all those in the meeting will also be quarantined, with the Opposition Congress terming it as ‘gross negligence’.Suryakant Dhasmana, vice president of Congress said, “The development just shows how negligent and irresponsible the government is in this fight against the pandemic. Now the question arises whether the entire government be put under quarantine as they were in the Cabinet meeting on Friday.”But Cabinet minister and government spokesperson Madan Kaushik said that no other minister from the meeting will be quarantined as of now. “Minister Maharaj will be tested for the virus and if he tests positive then a decision would be taken on quarantining all the ministers and officials who attended the Cabinet meeting on Friday,” said Kaushik. On May 27, the Dehradun district administration had put up a quarantine notice on Satpal Maharaj’s private residence after it was found that two of his guests had come during the lockdown.However, at that time, the minster had said that the guests were staying in one portion of the house while he lived in another portion with both having separate entrances. The portion quarantined is the one where his guests stayed. Meanwhile, 33 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in the state on Saturday taking the total tally to 749 . Five people have died of the disease so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-minister-satpal-maharaj-quarantined-after-wife-tests-covid-19-positive/story-Q7QvfPlBgXMyc8l7WskqpO.html
30-05-2020||City||Noida: More relaxations likely from June 1, night curfew timing to be changed||NOIDA: With the Union ministry of home affairs issuing new guidelines that will come into effect from June 1, the Gautam Budh Nagar administration on Saturday hinted at lifting the border restrictions in the district. However, the district administration made it clear that the Uttar Pradesh government would take the final call on it.According to the Centre’s fresh guidelines that will remain effective till June 30, almost all activities outside containment zones will be allowed to resume in a phased manner. District magistrate Suhas LY said that it has now become an issue of “livelihood versus health”. “The point 6 (i) of the order clearly states that after assessment of the situation, it can be restricted if it causes health issues,” he said. Suhas further said that night curfew would continue to remain in force for all non-essential activities. “However, the revised timings of the curfew will be from 9pm to 5am. It is certainly going to benefit the traders. All activities, which were earlier prohibited, will be opened up in different phases, outside the containment zones. But certain activities outside the containment zones can also be restricted, if needed,” he said.About the containment zones in the district, the DM said that strict perimeter control will be maintained and only essential activities allowed there.When asked about any relaxation in the odd-even formula for shops, the DM said that it will be decided on Sunday after the state guidelines are issued.One more dies of Covid-19 Meanwhile, a 58-year-old man died of Covid-19 in the district on Saturday at the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS), taking the death toll to seven. Incidentally, the deceased was the first patient who succumbed to Covid-19 at an age under 60 years.GIMS director Dr Rakesh Gupta said that the man, a resident of Noida, was admitted in the ICU with bronchopneumonia and acute respiratory distress syndrome on May 28. “Today, when he was put on high flow oxygen therapy, antibiotics and supportive therapy, and did not show any improvement, we put him on ventilator support. But, he could not survive and died on Saturday afternoon,” he said.On Saturday, the overall tally of Covid-19 cases in the district increased to 405, with the addition of 18 new positive cases. However, three patients, including a three-year-old boy, a five-year-old girl and a 46-year-old man, were discharged from Sharda Hospital. District surveillance officer Dr Sunil Dohre said that of the 18 new cases, there are nine females and as many males. “Till Saturday evening, the number of positive cases reported in the district is 405. Of them, 293 people have been discharged from different hospitals, seven patients have so far lost their lives and 18 have been cross-notified from other districts and states. We now have only 105 active cases,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-more-relaxations-likely-from-june-1-night-curfew-timing-to-be-changed/story-HqZ25be5ICLRkuu4xMZbYO.html
30-05-2020||City||After Khoda and Loni, administration mulling plans to deal with rising cases in Vaishali||Ghaziabad: The prime locality of Vaishali is now under scanner of the district officials after a surge in the number of coronavirus (Covid-19) disease positive cases. According to records of the health department, Vaishali at present has about 30 of the total of 276 coronavirus positive cases reported till Friday night. The district officials said that they are mulling plans if the sector scheme can be implemented for Vaishali.The concept of sector scheme, akin to sealing, is already in place in Khoda and Loni, which have also witnessed the majority of cases in Ghaziabad. Under the sector scheme concept, teams of police, magistrates and health department officials take over an area for strict surveillance, sampling and contact tracing while ensuring restriction on movement of residents.“We are concerned about the number of cases emerging from Vaishali and are holding meetings with police officers and officials of other departments. The sector scheme, in the form of sealing, was put in place in Khoda and Loni and is not likely to be lifted soon till the number of cases comes down. Similar plans can be implemented for Vaishali,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate.According to figures by the health department, most of the cases in Vaishali have surfaced from sectors 1, 3, 4 and 5.“There is already restriction on movement at the bordering areas at UP Gate, Loni and others. The restrictions will continue till further orders,” Pandey added.According to health department officials, most Vaishali residents are those who work in Delhi and regularly have to cross the border.“According to our estimates, there are about 100 cases out of the 276 which are a result of cross border movement and majority of people have acquired it (Covid-19) from Delhi. There are other cases which have resulted from hospitals in Delhi. About 75% of 115 patients tested so far through private labs have tested positive and their source is primarily hospitals,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer.“Since number of cases in Vaishali is on the rise, it is our recommendation for implementation of the sector scheme to check rising cases. In Vaishali, the areas from where cases have emerged were sealed but cases continue to come,” he added.The officials said that Covid-19 positive cases in Khoda, Loni and Vaishali account for about 36% of the total cases in Ghaziabad. Vaishali is home to about 20-25 highrise projects and plotted development areas with an estimated population of about 1.5 lakh.In the meantime, Sahibabad MLA Sunil Sharma has written to the district magistrate and sought relaxation in sealing in Khoda in those places from there are no cases, and seal only those cases from where cases have emerged.“Cases in trans-Hindon areas are on rise and majority of those are due to infections from hospitals or cross-border movement. I have written to the district magistrate to seal only those areas where cases have emerged in Khoda. Otherwise, the rest of the population will suffer. Vaishali and Jhandapur areas are also cause of concern due to rise in cases. Vaishali is affected as majority of the working population goes to Delhi,” Sharma added.Residents, meanwhile, said that the administration must think in larger public interest and take appropriate steps.“Any step taken by the administration must be result oriented. Vaishali shares a border with Delhi and majority of people there travel to Delhi for work. It is also vital that people obey the guidelines of the lockdown and maintain discipline,” said Mohit Sharma, a resident of Sector 1.The sector scheme in Khoda was initiated on May 10 while it was implemented in Loni on May 27. As of now, it has been continued in both areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-khoda-and-loni-administration-mulling-plans-to-deal-with-rising-cases-in-vaishali/story-NhTUY9MrJgDlH7QWeU40BO.html
30-05-2020||City||After personal assistant, 13 from Bhiwani MLA’s family, staff test positive for Covid-19||Thirteen persons from BJP MLA Ghanshyam Saraf’s family and staff tested positive for Covid-19 in Bhiwani on Saturday. Two more cases were reported from other parts of the district.This has come a day after the MLA’s personal assistant, who had allegedly flouted social distancing protocol, was detected with the virus.The 13 infected members include Saraf’s 50-year-old wife, daughter, daughter-in-law, son, granddaughter, other relatives and staff members.Claiming that the MLA tested negative, nodal officer Dr Rajesh Kumar said, “The infected persons were hospitalised after their reports confirmed their status on Saturday evening.”BJP MLA FLOUTED PROTOCOLThe BJP MLA along with his PA and other staff members had been organising meetings to felicitate corona warriors for the past few days, while allegedly ignoring Covid-19 protocol.Three days ago, Saraf had organised a meeting in the city and distributed appreciation letters to over 45 police personnel. The former minister had also distributed ration among the needy.“On Monday, Saraf had visited Chandigarh along with his infected aide and three others. After returning home, the MLA’s PA had undertaken Covid-19 test at a civil hospital in Bhiwani. The PA had concealed that his samples were taken and accompanied Saraf to a public meeting,” a staff member of the MLA had said.SPECULATIONS OVER SARAF’S COVID-19 STATUSAfter over a dozen people connected to the BJP MLA tested positive on Saturday, Saraf’s Covid-free status has raised doubts among the medical fraternity.A source in the health department said it was quite strange that the MLA didn’t test positive for Covid-19 even after being in constant proximity of his infected PA, from whom 13 others contracted the disease apparently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-personal-assistant-13-from-bhiwani-mla-s-family-staff-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-FsCr6CqbmkPOh0ubL0Qx2I.html
30-05-2020||City||Body found in nullah in Mohali||The body of an unidentified man was found in a nullah at Dhakoli, Zirakpur, in Mohali district. Police said the victim seems to be in his mid-40s and is suspected to have died two to three days ago. The body has been kept in the mortuary of the Dera Bassi civil hospital. Further investigation is on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/body-found-in-nullah-in-mohali/story-bp1cEirMVumPc0Z1wUIE8O.html
30-05-2020||Mumbai||Schools cannot sack teachers or hold their salaries: State education department||With reports of several schools sacking teachers or not paying them during the Covid-19 crisis doing the rounds, the state education department has now come up with a circular stating that action would be taken against schools which resort to such practices.“It has come to light that some schools run by private managements are not paying their employees including teachers and non-teaching staff citing school closure as a reason. This is not acceptable as the government has already made it clear that paying its staff is the school’s responsibility,” read the circular.On May 22, HT reported about a school chain in the city asking nearly 150 of its employees to go on leave without pay until further notice. “A lot of schools are now telling teachers that they cannot pay them salaries citing balance payments from parents. Despite the majority of parents paying, teachers are being made to wait for their salaries,” said a teacher from a suburban school which has paid only 30% of the total salary to its staff.Some schools said that they were finding it tough to manage their expenses. “Big chains still have a lot of funds but budget private schools like ours get their funds only from fees. Most of our parents have said that they cannot pay full fees while some have not even paid a single instalment. We cannot pressurise parents and hence our staff is getting only 50% salary,” said the management member of a school in Malad on the condition of anonymity.Schools that do not pay their salaries would have to explain for not doing so and the education department can take action against such schools as per the circular.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/schools-cannot-sack-teachers-or-hold-their-salaries-state-education-department/story-bFZLiSg1aBXxNtFFtXPVkM.html
30-05-2020||Kolkata||West Bengal Covid-19 tally crosses 5,000-mark; death toll rises to 237||The number of Covid-19 cases in West Bengal climbed to 5,130 on Saturday after 317 more people tested positive for coronavirus, the state health department bulletin said.Seven fresh deaths due to the disease were also reported in the state, taking the toll to 237, it said.Six of the seven deaths were recorded in Kolkata while one was in North 24 Parganas district.Seventy-two patients have died due to co-morbidities where COVID-19 was “incidental”, the bulletin said.The number of active cases in the state stands at 2,851.The bulletin said 195 patients were discharged from various hospitals since Friday evening, taking the total number of people who have recovered from the disease to 1,970.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/west-bengal-covid-19-tally-crosses-5-000-mark-death-toll-rises-to-237/story-vQiwQm51qrBzEJyMoYoPcI.html
30-05-2020||City||200th train carrying migrants home departs from Ludhiana||The 200th train, carrying migrants to their home state, departed for Uttar Pradesh (UP) from the Ludhiana railway station here on Saturday.Since May 5, when the first train left from here, more than 3.2 lakh migrants have been sent to their home states through these trains.The train, that left for Madepur in UP, was flagged off by deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal.The administration has been sending around 1,600 migrants in each train and, till date, a total of 203 trains have departed for Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Manipur, Jharkhand and other states.The DC said so far, around 3.2 lakh migrants have been sent safely to their home states. The administration has been informing the registered migrants about their trains via phone calls and SMSes.He said migrants were also given chance of manual registration for one day.The DC said more than eight lakh migrants had registered for travelling to their home states, but as a large number of industrial units have started operations, several of them have dropped the plan to go to their native places and returned to their jobs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/200th-train-carrying-migrants-home-departs-from-ludhiana/story-xMd4V3cfU4TNaz4ZKhhfvN.html
30-05-2020||Kolkata||In Amphan’s trail of destruction, Sunderbans turn red, yellow||Trees in large swathes of the Sunderbans, including several species of mangrove in one of the largest riverine deltas in the world, have started turning yellow and red over the past couple of days, several members of legislative assembly (MLAs) said.The lawmakers have never witnessed this unnatural phenomenon before, even after the cyclone Aila that devastated large parts in and around the Sunderbans in 2009.“All trees are turning yellow and red over the past few days, as an effect of the super cyclone Amphan. The effect is less on mangroves and more on the other trees, such as mango, banyan, jambul, neem, and jackfruit. Leaves of almost all trees on the land are turning yellow or red. They look burnt. We’ve never witnessed such a scene before,” said Samir Kumar Jana, an MLA from Patharpratima, one of the worst super cyclone Amphan-hit areas in the South 24-Parganas district.Among mangroves, it is mainly the Avicennia species that have shown some reddishness on its leaves. “Over the past few days, I’ve been travelling across all interior areas and the situation is the same everywhere. At places, nothing is left green,” said Jana. Kultali MLA Ramshankar Haldar echoed him. Veteran Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader Kanti Ganguly, who represented Raidighi assembly constituency for years, has had a similar experience.West Bengal government authorities said that the Indian part of the Sunderbans consists of 4,200 square kilometres (km) of reserved forests along with 5,400 square km of non-forest area, making a total of 9600 sq. km. Of the reserve forest areas, around 1,500 square km of the forest area has suffered massive damage in the cyclone. The Sunderban delta in India comprises 102 islands of which 54 have human settlements, while the rest are only wild forests.“The effect on mangrove is less, but leaves are turning reddish and yellowish,” said Sukumar Mahato, MLA from Sandeshkhali in North 24-Parganas district.Ravi Kant Sinha, principal chief conservator of forests (PCCF), West Bengal, said that they have received similar reports. “We have heard that trees, including some mangroves, are turning yellow and red. For mangroves, this could be due to damage in their roots, while for other trees it could be due to increased salinity. However, we’ll need time to ascertain whether the damage is long-term or short-term,” Sinha said.According to Himadri Sekhar Debnath, former joint-director of the AJC Bose Indian Botanical Garden, “Even mangroves can turn yellowish due to increased salinity. Mangroves live and grow in a mix of sweet and saline water. If the ratio of pH (the measure of the alkalinity or acidity of the water) and saline water gets disturbed, such effects may happen.”Ajanta Dey of Nature Environment and Wildlife Society, which has conducted large-scale mangrove plantation in the Sunderbans, said the mangroves are least affected. “According to the reports and photographs, all other trees are turning yellowish, like never before. However, we’ve not yet received reports of a similar effect on mangroves. We’ll undertake a field trip soon,” Dey said.State forest minister Rajib Banerjee said a similar report has come to him as well and he would make a visit to the area for a first-hand feel of this unnatural development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/in-amphan-s-trail-of-destruction-sunderbans-turn-red-yellow/story-oZdtFDfOvP1eKrDtyAUM8O.html
30-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s third locality to lose containment tag||Shastri Nagar in Manimajra will no longer be a containment zone from Sunday. The decision was taken as the area has not reported any case for 28 days.The last case surfaced on May 2, that of a 49-year-old man. Two other areas — EWS Colony in Sector 38 and parts of Sector 52 — have already been denotified as containment zones. With this, only three containment zones remain: Bapu Dham Colony in Sector 26, Kacchi Colony in Dhanas, and parts of Sector 30B. NO CASE FOR 2 DAYS, RECOVERIES INCH TOWARDS 200Meanwhile, Chandigarh reported no fresh case of Covid-19 for second consecutive day, while 10 more patients recovered and were discharged from the ayurvedic college on Saturday.With this the number of active cases has come down to 85 while the number of recovered patients has reached 199. The recovery rate in the city stands at 68% while the test positivity rate is 6.2%.Out of those discharged, nine are residents of Bapu Dham Colony and one is from Dhanas. They have been sent to the post-discharge quarantine facility at Sood Dharmshala, Sector 22.According to the official media bulletin, the total confirmed cases are 289, though the actual number is 288. The discrepancy is being attributed to the case of a 91-year-old woman from Sector 15 who tested negative in the retest conducted by the PGIMER. To revise the total, the UT administration will have to take the Government of India and ICMR’s permission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-third-locality-to-lose-containment-tag/story-zN9WMHP3sdXkXMv6hrYTJN.html
30-05-2020||City||Some friends are never meant to be forgotten||Among all my college friends JD was dearest to me. He was JD to all, even the teachers. Few knew that his name was Janardhan Dutt Sharma. At college, we spent only two years together, sharing just one common class of geography. Outside classes, however, we were together most of the time.We were different in many ways, but these differences never came in the way of our genuine friendship and mutual affection.JD bicycled daily to Government College, Ludhiana from his village Alamgir, which is about 10 miles from the city. I lived by myself in our own house near the college. Often he would come to me first and then we would go to college together. After college he invariably accompanied me to my house, sometimes he stayed with me. We talked, laughed, discussed books and films, shared family problems, made plans for the future and above all gossiped about girls – some real and some dream girls.Our tea sessions at Pandit’s dhaba in the GhumarMandi chowk were lively and enjoyable. The dhaba was strategically located at the southern end of Lovers’ Lane, which led to Gurdev Hostel for girls and Government College for Boys; whereas towards the east quite close by was Government College for women. We patronised the dhaba because of its location and the quality of tea. Pandit died years ago; the dhaba disappeared and in its place came a big departmental store. The place still retains its old name Ghumar Mandi, but it’s a posh shopping area of the city today. And there lie buried sweet memories of my youth and the happy moments spent with friends like JD.Ours was a group of village boys, who were first generation college students. In a way we were yokels and new to city ways. JD was an exception; he had visited Lahore and Shimla (then Simla) and talked about Flattie’s and Devico’s and the attraction of those magical cities. He was my guide in table manners, in handling the knife and fork, in artfully combining colours when dressing, in tying the knot of the tie, in addressing the ladies properly, in selecting good books, in using correct English pronunciation, in watching standard English films and above all in choosing the ‘right’ friends. No wonder he remained ‘Englandi bachha’ to us. Who knew then that one day he would go to England to study, to settle and to die?While doing his master’s (English), JD married a Kenya-born girl of Punjabi origin, who left for Nairobi soon after marriage. JD followed suit leaving his studies incomplete. Subsequently, he emigrated to England with his family. We exchanged letters regularly. Once he did not write to me quite for some time and I sent him a one-sentence letter: “How have you managed to forget your past?” It jolted him, and he wrote a long letter.On a visit to India years ago, he insisted we spend some time together at a hill station, so we went to Mussoorie. We had a wonderful time there. We climbed up to Moti Tibba, went down to see a waterfall, sat on grassy lawns lazing in the sun and reminiscing. It was a perfect holiday for both of us. JD had a knack of making each moment lively and memorable. As the sun was sinking behind the hills and we walked down the Mall, I saw a bright red print displayed in a cloth shop and spontaneously remarked, “how beautiful.” He asked me whom I loved most and when I answered “my eldest daughter,” he went into the shop and bought a shirt-length as a gift for her.JD was a handsome person, fair, tall, with big blue eyes. He had a powerful voice, which he used to good effect while conversing. He was no intellectual but possessed ample practical common sense. He loved the good things of life, enjoyed them and encouraged others to do so. He was not interested in futile discussions on religion, philosophy, communism etc, subjects which interested many students of our generation. He took life as it came and tried to enjoy each moment.When his wife left for Kenya only a few days after their marriage, he wrote to her the lines of a song popular then: Jiwan ke safar mein rahi miltey hain bichhar jaaney ko; aur dey jaatey hain yaadein tanhai mein tarpaney ko (Companions in this life meet us only to be separated, and leave us with memories that torture us when we are lonely.” She felt bad then, but these words proved to be prophetic.They reflect my state of mind, now.JD had been suffering from blood cancer for two years but he did not reveal it to any friend or relative. He passed away on September 3, 1976, in England. I have never forgotten him and can never do so. He visits me in my dreams. In our culture, it is said that if we remember the dead so much and too long, their souls suffer. I do not wish to cause his soul any pain, but I simply cannot forget him. His company was the joy of my youth; his memory is the solace of my old age.Surely, no bond is stronger and more satisfying than sincere friendship.ajhehar@gmail.com (The writer is a retired professor based in Ludhiana)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/some-friends-are-never-meant-to-be-forgotten/story-EJe5hEiIzN9sZMcVYQuEwJ.html
30-05-2020||City||Rajiv Gandhi Colony residents land in soup for stopping, confining Ludhiana MC team holding survey||At least 10 residents of the Rajiv Gandhi Colony have landed in the soup for allegedly stopping, thrashing and confining members of a municipal corporation (MC) team, which had gone to their area on Friday.The team had gone there to conduct a survey for allotting flats, constructed under the Basic Services for Urban Poor (BSUP) Scheme to residents who have encroached upon the government land in the colony. In his complaint submitted with the police on Saturday, Narinder Kumar, a guard in the MC, alleged that he, along with Vikas Kumar, went to the area on Friday afternoon for conducting the survey.“While we were doing our job, Vajinder Kumar, Paramjit Singh, Pinki, Rajveer Singh and around half a dozen more residents stopped us and snatched the survey documents from our hands. They also thrashed Vikas and took us behind a school in the Focal Point area. They confined us to that spot for at least three hours,” alleged Narinder. A video has also gone viral on social networking sites showing Vajinder challenging the police and MLA Sanjay Talwar to take action against encroachers. Area councillor Sandeep Kumari said, “The survey is being done to provide flats to encroachers and develop the land for facilitating residents. But these anti-social elements are becoming a hurdle in the entire process. Vajinder is a close aide of some Shiromani Akal Dal (SAD) leader. Earlier also, residents of the colony had attacked my husband’s vehicle when an MC team reached there to take action against encroachments a few months ago, but the police have failed to take any action against them.” Focal Point station house officer Mohammad Jamil said, “The MC officials submitted their complaint on Saturday evening and police have initiated an inquiry into the matter. No arrest has been made so far.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rajiv-gandhi-colony-residents-land-in-soup-for-stopping-confining-ludhiana-mc-team-holding-survey/story-puokn8KH2Cik0MXYUjETqJ.html
30-05-2020||City||Transporters demand relief package, resumption of commercial vehicles||Sulking over no relief package to the transporters, delay in the resumption of commercial transportation and demanding hike in fare by 50%, All Jammu and Kashmir Transport Welfare Association on Saturday served a three-day ultimatum to the administration to respond to its demands or else get ready to face agitations and protest demonstrations across the Union territory.The association said that they too could carry 50% of the total capacity of their passenger vehicles to maintain social distancing but further delay may sound a death knell to the transport industry.Addressing media persons here, association chairman TS Wazir said that all commercial vehicles came to a screeching halt on March 15 and since then they remain off the road in the wake of Covid 19 pandemic.“The government has announced a relief package for all the sectors but we have been left high and dry. Transporters have suffered huge losses due to the lockdown. While rail and air traffic have been resumed and liquor vends have been opened, we are not allowed to run our vehicles in J&K,” he said and referred to Delhi, Haryana, Uttarakhand and Rajasthan where fares have been hiked by 20 to 30% and the vehicles have started plying while following the SOPs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/transporters-demand-relief-package-resumption-of-commercial-vehicles/story-3UaISgVTn79HkGYL6nxZwJ.html
30-05-2020||City||It’s now or never: Let’s not forget our social responsibilities||To expect our people to show total conformity to the preventive measures against Covid 19, announced by the Indian government is, in fact, to expect a little too much. Some of the mandatory measures such as wearing a mask in public spaces, social distancing, self-isolation or quarantining (in both symptomatic or asymptomatic cases) and getting tested if showing symptoms are some of the important guidelines we are expected to follow. Apart from this, we are also expected to wash our hands frequently; sanitise our living and work spaces, including the surfaces we frequently touch during the course of our activities. Though some people follow these guidelines scrupulously, a majority of Indians don’t think twice before flouting them. We have noticed how social distancing is not always maintained when people are present in public spaces. Something as simple as a mask is often not worn because people say it’s unhealthy or that it’s not going to make much of a difference. There have been other more disturbing violations such as people escaping from hospitals while quarantined or others turning violent when questioned why they were not following the protocol. Initially, when the pandemic had just struck, people also made a deliberate attempt to hide their symptoms or their contact history. Cases of mass congregations, parties or social get-togethers too were reported. This brings us to a pertinent question: How are people expected to conduct themselves in critical times? Are we, as a society, expected to behave responsibly or irresponsibly? Even when things are normal, we Indians, take special delight in flouting norms or the rules, without bothering about our communities and adopting a ‘me first’ approach, not thinking twice about jumping the queue or the red-light or worrying about accidents or inconvenience caused to others. We also have no respect for the law of the land, a fact demonstrated by the Indian police using lathis to force the people stay indoors during the lockdown. It was only the fear of the rod, not concern for others, that kept people from stepping out of their homes. Things got so bad that even the government had to threaten its own defaulting citizens with legal action, that too to help them stay alive and healthy!When people were asked to beat thalis or light candles as a mark of respect for the corona warriors, they hit the roads and started celebrating, disregarding all social distancing rules. They started assembling in groups in their respective residential colonies/flats or apartments as though the crisis was over, and it was time for celebration and victory. This above all, defeated the very purpose for which our Prime Minister had announced this initiative. It is quite evident that a society that doesn’t follow rules and shows scant regard for the principle of collective social responsibility and welfare in the normal times, is bound to flounder in times of a crisis as severe as this.In such crucial times, what we need to understand is that our actions have consequences, not only for us, but also for others. A single mistake in terms of socially irresponsible behaviour won’t only cost us dear, but also take a heavy toll on our fellow citizens, our neighbours, and our community. This kind of lack of social responsibility has, unfortunately, been demonstrated by all sections of our society, illiterate, semi-literate, educated and highly skilled professionals. This is a moment of reckoning for all of us, and we must think of how we cannot only help ourselves but also those around us. After all, fear of law can’t become the governing principle of regulating human behaviour in a society. Ultimately, all civilized societies depend upon the awareness of the individual citizens and also on their ability to conduct themselves in a free, fair and yet responsible manner. How long can the fear be used as a deterrent to prevent dangerous and threatening behaviour in the face of Covid-19 pandemic? It is time, we, the citizens, understood our own role and responsibility in limiting the spread and transmission of Covid-19. The government is doing what it can but when it is such a grave situation, all of us must come together and realize our social responsibility. All it requires is some deep introspection and cultivation of discipline, respect for the law of the land and an ability to feel for and connect with our fellow citizens. And yet, this is too serious to be left to the discretion or whims of the individuals. In order to achieve this social objective, if we have to reboot our education system, it is well worth the effort. We can incorporate the community welfare practices into our education system, right from the primary stage to the university level. This will help our future citizens develop a strong sense of ethics. The author is assistant professor at Government PG College, Sector-1, Panchkula||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/it-s-now-or-never-let-s-not-forget-our-social-responsibilities/story-WwN7GwUrNK8B3uczXvj42H.html
30-05-2020||City||BJP conspiring to allot larger share of Assembly seats to Kashmir: Harsh Dev||Former education minister and chairman of the Panthers Party Harsh Dev Singh on Saturday alleged that the BJP was conspiring to allot a larger share of Assembly seats to Kashmir at the expense of Jammu, which has been entitled to at least 50 seats as per the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act 2019.“While delimitation of Assembly constituencies in J&K ought to have been the priority concern of the BJP government in view its repeated assurances over the subject, the process has been inordinately delayed creating several apprehensions in the political and social circles,” he said while addressing media persons here.“It was on August 5, 2019, that the Parliament passed the J&K Reorganisation Act providing for 90 Assembly seats for the new UT to be bifurcated in accordance with the new criteria laid down in see 60 of the said Act. The Centre as well as the state BJP leadership during that period indulged in a lot of jangle and rattle with tall claims of addressing all bias against the Jammu region and ending the political hegemony of Kashmir by increasing the Assembly seats of Jammu region. It was however regrettable that the very same leadership had failed to ensure even the commencement delimitation exercise despite lapse of ten months,” said Singh.He said that not only were the controversies being created over the composition of the Delimitation Commission but BJP had started giving feelers of a possible lower share for the Jammu region in the event of Delimitation being held as per census 2011. The BJP in its bid to further appease Kashmir seemed to be planning to give it a higher number of Assembly seats by cleverly conveying to the people that the population of Kashmir region as per the 2011 census was higher than that of Jammu region.And all this gimmickry is being resorted to notwithstanding the fact that the J&K Reorganisation Act of 2019 does not give any weightage to the population in the process of delimiting of Assembly seats.“The population factor which was the major consideration in the erstwhile law on delimitation has been dropped in the Reorganisation Act 2019. And the population factor will matter only in the constituencies to be reserved for SC and ST so as to ensure that only those seats are reserved where the proportion of their population to the total population in largest. With the new criteria weighing heavily in favour of the Jammu region, it was entitled to at least 50 seats in Assembly and a minimum of three seats in the Parliament as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-conspiring-to-allot-larger-share-of-assembly-seats-to-kashmir-harsh-dev/story-TAlaeHD36OcEBr3EI0WJnL.html
30-05-2020||City||BSF jawan hangs self to death in Jammu, probe underway to ascertain cause||A Border Security Force jawan has allegedly commited suicide at his camp in Paloura here, police said on Saturday.The constable, who was a resident of Assam, was found hanging in the bathroom of his residence at Paloura camp on Friday, a police official said.He said a preliminary investigation suggested the jawan posted with the 98th battalion committed suicide.Police officials are trying to ascertain why he took the step, the official said adding the body has been handed over to his unit after completion of legal formalities.“We have not found any suicide note from the bathroom but prima facie it appeared that the jawan committed suicide by hanging,” a police official said.BSF has also instituted an internal probe.Missing woman found dead, family allege police inactionIn a separate incident, a 33-year-old woman, mother of two children, who went missing three days ago from her house in Channi Himmat area, was found dead in a canal here on Saturday.The deceased has been identified as Pooja Gupta. The body was seen floating in a canal at Dharp in Gadigarh area on the outskirts of the city this afternoon.The woman had been missing since May 27. Family members of the deceased alleged that police inaction that led to her death.“Police showed utter carelessness in searching for her. She was spotted by a security guard at an ATM near Amar Singh Club. She told him that she has failed (in life) and hence has left her house but the guard didn’t bother to inform the police,” said one of the members of the family.SHO of Channi Himmat police station, Sajjad Pervez, said, “The woman was under medication for depression. We kept searching her for the past three days but her body was found from a canal in Dharp area on Saturday.”Later, the body was taken to Government Medical College (GMC) hospital for a postmortem examination.Meanwhile, a 55-year-old identified as Mohammad Aalam was killed over a property dispute in Poonch district’s Surankote area on Saturday.The victim was hit by a wooden log and was rushed to hospital where he succumbed to his injuries.Police have arrested a person in the matter and investigations have been initiated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bsf-jawan-hangs-self-to-death-in-jammu-probe-underway-to-ascertain-cause/story-9phVbdIyoTnmwjFvsODNKJ.html
30-05-2020||City||Yes, a mother can miss her daughter’s school||The school has been closed for two months now. Though online classes have been a success and my daughter seems to have adjusted to the new system, I miss the familiarity of her school, which brought such positive changes in my life. This makes me travel down memory lane. Back in 2013, when my husband went away to an East African country to take up a new job, my parents made this big move to emigrate to Canada to be with my brother. I was deposited at the altar of the home newly built by my in-laws in Hoshiarpur, Punjab, with a four-year-old daughter in tow, transfer orders to a new station in my hands and a sense of loss gnawing at my heart. Settling in had to be done on multiple fronts, in a new house, a workplace and a new city which though not imposing did seem a little strange to fit in as I didn’t know anyone there, nor did my in-laws who had just moved in after my father-in-law’s retirement from the army.The new order of life dictated being in a marriage sans companionship, long distance phone calls and finding a balance in life while being my own anchor. I admitted my daughter to a school close to our home and would drop her there before going to work and pick her up while coming back. And though the rest of the city was a chaotic blur, the house required personal touches to be called a home and my workplace remained unfamiliar, it was the school which helped me come to grips with the situation I found myself in.It was a place I started identifying with. Many anxious women would queue up with me to wait for their tiny tots who came rushing to them after school. It was somehow reassuring to see other mothers experiencing similar emotions when seeing off their toddlers, a feeling of togetherness foisted upon us as parents of OT (own transport) pupils, spending those few minutes together in the routine of picking and dropping our children while the rest of the students arrived in buses. It started with hesitant smiles and nods and we soon introduced ourselves to each other. My initial resistance to acknowledge this strange kinship, which acted as a bulwark against engaging strangers, soon began to crumble. In the coming days, I would look forward to meeting my ‘friends,’ and they too soon started counting me among their own.For them I was not a newcomer in this city, a stranger seeking acceptance, an unfamiliar face, but another mother, of an OT child. If my daughter found happiness and security in her school then I can say happily that I discovered my first set of friends in the city in these mothers during those difficult years of settling in. Now, after seven years, I still drop my daughter to school, pick her up, meet more or less the same set of women with a few additions and subtractions. For me, this school, which my daughter proudly claims as her own with a glint in her eye, stands for familiarity, love, comfort and acceptance. Now, the city feels less alien, the house is more of a home, and I feel more anchored… Yet gratitude encompasses my heart when I am at the gates of the school. I hope sooner than later this oasis now shut down because of the Covid-19 pandemic will throw its gates open, receiving its flock of students with open arms bringing knowledge, camaraderie, bonhomie to the fore not only amongst the students but their parents as well. ranagill261212@gmail.comThe author is a Hoshiarpur based veterinary officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/yes-a-mother-can-miss-her-daughter-s-school/story-Qz6oOK9G3wlYRyE1hVGInO.html
30-05-2020||Chandigarh||PGIMER has received only 5 donors for plasma therapy clinical trials||With only five donors coming forward so far, the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, is finding it difficult to start clinical trials of convalescent plasma therapy on Covid-19 patients. The trials are aimed at assessing the efficacy of plasma therapy, which uses antibodies found in cured persons to treat infected patients.The criteria laid down by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) states that plasma of only those persons, who had remained critically ill before recovering, can be used. Doctors say that this is posing a challenge as most patients here had remained asymptomatic and thus don’t qualify to be donors.They added that they have even approached survivors in neighbouring states but those patients had also been asymptomatic.Patients admitted in the Nehru Hospital Extension Block will be eligible to receive this therapy. PGIMER’s official spokesperson Dr Ashok Kumar said there is a shortage of donors as a large number of donors have been asymptomatic and thus don’t clear the ICMR criteria.It has been almost three weeks since the institute got the nod from the ICMR for the trials but so far they have not been able to start it.THE EFFICACYThough the efficacy of the therapy is still unknown, Dr RR Sharma, head of the department of transfusion medicine, says, “Some research has shown that the there is direct link between development of antibodies and the development of symptoms. For example: a person who has developed the symptoms like fever and cough has chances of anti-bodies developing in body,” said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgimer-has-received-only-5-donors-for-plasma-therapy-clinical-trials/story-Bw1Tqkxnk0uWPC42g8rCtJ.html
30-05-2020||City||J&K records biggest single-day spike with 177 Covid-19 cases, tally crosses 2,300||Jammu and Kashmir witnessed the biggest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases on Saturday with 177 people testing positive for the disease, raising the tally to 2,341, officials said.Of the new 177 positive cases, 125 were reported in Kashmir while 52 were in Jammu division, a government statement said.Fresh cases were reported in all the 10 districts of Kashmir valley, taking the total tally in the division to 1,853.The highest number of cases were reported in Barmualla (40) followed by 26 in Srinagar, 19 in Anantnag, 16 in Shopian, 14 in Ramban, 13 in Udhampur, 10 in Budgam, seven in Samba, six each in Kathua and Rajouri.Of the 671 samples tested for Covid-19, 48 were found positive, said Dr Salim Khan, nodal officer for Covid-19.“Among the positive cases, 10 are pregnant women, five each from Anantnag and Baramulla districts and one patient is from district police lines Baramulla,” he said.In the Jammu division, the fresh cases were recorded in Jammu, Kathua, Udhampur, Sambha, Doda and Rajouri districts, taking the division tally to 488.Thirty-three more patients were discharged after being cured – 16 from Jammu division and 17 from Kashmir. So far, 905 out of the total 2,341 cases have recovered, 791 of those are from Kashmir and 117 are from the Jammu division.Currently, active cases in Kashmir stand at 1,037 and 368 in Jammu.To date, 1.65 lakh people in contact with suspected cases have been put under surveillance — 36,538 in home quarantine, 56 in hospital quarantine and 43,514 under home surveillance. Besides these, 83,684 people have completed their 28-day surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-records-biggest-single-day-spike-with-177-covid-19-cases-tally-crosses-2-300/story-rMTDNg2PN6vWmw0t6BKJdL.html
30-05-2020||Dehradun||With 33 fresh cases, Uttarakhand’s Covid-19 tally increases to 749||After two days of spike in cases, 33 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported on Saturday taking the total tally to 749 in Uttarakhand.The health department in a bulletin confirmed that 33 Covid-19 positive cases were reported from districts like Dehradun (21), Tehri Garhwal (4), Haridwar (3), and Nainital (5) district.Seven cases reported from Dehradun were detected during contact tracing of an earlier positive contact at the Niranjanpur Mandi in the capital city, one of the biggest vegetable markets of the state. Ten cases from were of people who returned from Maharashtra, one person had returned from Delhi while three patients were admitted at different government hospitals in the district.The cases from Tehri Garhwal, Haridwar and Nainital are all migrants who returned from Maharashtra.So far of the total 1,78,232 migrants that have returned to the state, maximum people have returned to districts like Almora, Pauri Garhwal and Tehri Garhwal. Over 35,000 people have returned to Almora district till now. The least number of people, 4044, have returned to Udham Singh Nagar district. Over 78,000 people have returned in the Kumaon region of the state and almost one lakh people have returned to the Garhwal region of the state.Uttarakhand has so far tested 28,433 samples of which over 21000 have tested negative. The health department is yet to get results of over 5000 samples. The rate of infection now stands at 3.25% in the state.Meanwhile, Amit Singh Negi, secretary for health in the state during a review meeting with officials on Saturday said that to increase testing facility in the state, the government is giving six TrueNat diagnostic machine for testing Covid-19.TrueNat, a machine used for screening tuberculosis can be used for testing Covid-19 also as approved by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR). The state government has also made a provision for giving two TrueNat machines to each district in the coming days.The secretary also said that designated Covid-19 hospitals in districts should be used only for treating such patients while all other patients should be referred to private hospitals under Ayushman Bharat scheme. Negi instructed officials that Covid-19 patients will be treated in government hospitals only.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/with-33-fresh-cases-uttarakhand-s-covid-19-tally-increases-to-749/story-tgSDQLq3fPaBXwwKA7NB0N.html
30-05-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally stands at 65,168 with 2,940 cases||Maharashtra on Saturday reported 2,940 new coronavirus patients, taking the total number of cases in the state to 65,168. 99 patients succumbed to the disease during the day taking the death toll to 2,197, the state health department said.On the other hand, 1,084 patients recovered and were discharged from hospitals, taking the number of recovered patients in Maharashtra to 28,081. Out of 99 COVID-19-related deaths, 54 were reported from Mumbai alone.However, 40 of the 99 deaths took place in the last two days while the rest occurred between May 6 to 27 but were reported late, the health department said.So far 4,33,557 people have been tested so far in the state.There are 3,169 containment zones, 5,51,660 people are in home quarantine and 72,681 are in institutional quarantine.The doubling rate of patients is 17.5 days, better than 11.3 days last week, the statement said.The state’s recovery rate is 43.07 percentwhile the mortality rate is 3.37 percent.Out of the total 65,168 cases, 38,442 are from Mumbai alone. The state capital has also reported 1,227 deaths.The worst-affected Mumbai Metropolitan Region area which includes Mumbai and surrounding areas accounts for 49,575 cases and 1,478 deaths.Pune city has reported 6,583 cases and 300 deaths, Solapur city 826 cases and 66 deaths, Aurangabad city 1,425 cases and 64 deaths, Malegaon city 747 cases and 52 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-s-covid-19-tally-stands-at-65-168-with-2-940-cases/story-JUxtUY3VDmyGrBuDhLoRLO.html
30-05-2020||City||Year of conviction, courage: Jai Ram on first anniversary of Modi 2.0||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Saturday congratulated Prime Minister Narendra Modi on completion of one year of the second term of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government at the Centre and termed it as a year of conviction, courage and commitment which has laid a sound foundation of strong, vibrant and self-reliant India.CM said that the first year of PM Modi-led central government in his second term which has taken several key decisions including the abrogation of Article 370, criminalisation of triple talaq, anti-terror terrorism law, Citizenship (Amendment) Act besides paving the way for construction of a magnificent Ram Temple at Ayodhya, Uttar Pradesh.He said that the abolition of triple talaq has provided great succour to the Muslim womenfolk and paved the way for their empowerment. Similarly, the abrogation of Article 370, which granted special status to Jammu and Kashmir was a historic decision that was necessary for the full integration of Kashmir into India. It also bifurcated the state into two Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir division and Ladakh division, sending a strong message to Pakistan that Delhi was prepared to retaliate in the same capacity, he added.Jai Ram Thakur said that another historic decision taken by the NDA government during one year of its tenure was the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, which seeks to grant citizenship to non-Muslims from three neighbouring Muslim majority countries (Pakistan, Afghanistan and Bangladesh) on the ground of religious persecution, prompted intense violent protests.CM said that the coronavirus pandemic has once again proved the political farsightedness and political will of PM Narendra Modi in effectively tackling the crisis. When even most powerful nations of the world were struggling hard to control this pandemic, the situation of India was far better than most of these countries due to the timely decision of lockdown taken by the PM. Steps taken by the Union Government had even been appreciated by the World Health Organization.Jai Ram Thakur said that to bring out the nation from this pandemic the present Union government also announced the largest economic package of 20 lakh crore to revive all the sectors and all sections of the society. He said that ₹1 lakh crore was allocated under MNREGA and about 80 crore people were provided subsidized ration and deposited money in the accounts of 20 crore women under Jandhan Yojana to provide relief to them in the hour of distress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/year-of-conviction-courage-jai-ram-on-first-anniversary-of-modi-2-0/story-Q9zaUfJxYwr1FtQuTD46vN.html
30-05-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University to get interim DSW as syndics differ on V-C’s proposal||The Panjab University syndicate on Saturday failed to reach a consensus on the appointment of Devinder Singh as the new dean of students’ welfare (DSW). Now, vice-chancellor Raj Kumar, who had recommended his name, has been authorised to appoint an interim DSW till the next syndicate meeting, which is scheduled on June 27.In case, the syndicate is unable to meet on that date, the charge will be given to the dean of university instructions (DUI).However, syndicate members Rajinder Bhandari and RS Jhanji recorded their dissent on the move.Meanwhile, syndicate members unanimously approved appointment of Sukhbir Kaur of the zoology department as the DSW (woman) while Ranjan Kumar of the physics department will continue as the associate DSW.The syndicate also gave its nod to Dr Rupinder Kaur taking charge as the chief medical officer (CMO) of PU’s Bhai Ghanaiyaji Institute of Health . The contractual term of appointment of Dr BS Lal as the visiting consultant at the health centre was also approved.New policy for film shooting on campusThe syndicate approved recommendations of the committee for reviewing the existing policy framed for indoor and outdoor shooting of films on the campus. The university will now charge Rs 5 lakh as entry for indoor and outdoor shooting, which includes Rs 50,000 tax for shooting per day and Rs 1 lakh as security. Shoots will be prohibited in the vice-chancellor’s office, girls’ hostel, administrative block, dental college, dispensary, residential area and the library.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-syndicate-turns-down-v-c-s-recommendation-interim-dsw-to-be-appointed/story-pqakEJGphDrzBOcWaqNdOI.html
30-05-2020||City||Falling economy, rising joblessness main achievements of Modi govt: HP Cong||Reacting on the one year of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s second term, the state Congress on Saturday said falling economy and rising unemployment were the main achievements of the central government so far.In a statement issued on Saturday, Himachal Congress president Kuldeep Rathore said in the last six years, India’s economy and GDP have reached record lows. “First demonetisation and now ill-planned lockdown has almost ruined the country. BJP came into power on the pretext of development, but today it is engaged in destroying the country,” he said.Chaos in the country has adversely affected the lives of common people and labourers have been forced to migrate in their own county without any food, he said.Rathore stated that the country’s society is on a path of disintegration in the name of casteism and religion. Unity within the country is being destroyed and jurisdiction of self-acquired institutions is being violated for political purposes, he added.Expressing concern over the current situation, he said for the first time since Independence, people are feeling insecure, which is a matter of concern.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/falling-economy-rising-joblessness-main-achievements-of-modi-govt-hp-cong/story-2Gsp8JZUwNkWBzEcc6MkyH.html
30-05-2020||City||Days after Bindal’s resignation, CM’s detractors meet up in Kangra||More fireworks are likely in Himachal BJP as two days after Rajeev Bindal stepped down as the state party chief, the detractors of chief minister Jai Ram Thakur met behind closed doors in Kangra on Saturday.Reliable sources in the party revealed that among the prominent faces in the meeting were Kangra MP Kishan Kapoor, former minister Ravinder Singh Ravi, former Kangra MLA Sanjay Chaudhary and state BJP executive committee member Ghanshyam Sharma.Ravi, Chaudhary and Sharma are staunch supporters of former CM Prem Kumar Dhumal.In the recent times, Kapoor too has confided in Dhumal, especially after his son was denied ticket in the bye-election for Dharamshala assembly segment.According to the sources, besides discussing the current political scenario, the disgruntled party leaders opined that had the government acted timely on the corruption allegations levelled last year, the health department scam that surfaced recently could have been averted.They said that instead of acting against those involved in corrupt practices, the state government had got Ravi arrested.In September last year, a letter alleging corruption in the health department had gone viral on social media.The letter, addressed to veteran leader Shanta Kumar, had raised serious allegations of corruption in the health and industry department and questions on chief minister’s silence on the issue.The Kangra police had arrested BJP worker Manoj Masand, who had posted the letter on Facebook.During interrogation, Masand named Ravi for asking him to post the letter. Following this, the police had confiscated the former minister’s mobile phone and also summoned him for questioning.The probe conducted by the Kangra police indicted Ravi as the main accused. The police are yet to file a chargesheet in the case.Meanwhile, Ravi admitted that such a meeting took place. However, he denied commenting on the issues discussed by them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/days-after-bindal-s-resignation-cm-s-detractors-meet-up-in-kangra/story-mWghwcUZVUvC28N4WdGq6M.html
30-05-2020||City||Operations in social sector to be permitted from June 1 in Srinagar||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Saturday decided to allow the social sector of the district to start operating from June 1.Officials said that the departments have been asked to submit relevant plans to make it successful. “The administration is looking to permit more sectors to operate after the end of the current phase of the lockdown enforced in the district in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. To begin with, it has decided to allow the social sector of the district to start operating from Monday,” an official said.He said that concerned departments that work in this sector have been asked to submit relevant details and plans of operation. “They will have to include a detailed sketch of how adherence to all relevant guidelines and SOPs will be ensured,” the official added.Deputy commissioner Shahid Choudhary said it is time to resume services and operations in the district. “Everything will be done in a gradual manner while ensuring that all precautions are taken care of.”Meanwhile, the district administration has decided to remove all restrictions and allow all kinds of operations in rural parts of Srinagar.“Except in Dara area of Khonmoh block restrictions will be removed in all rural areas of the district adding that all kinds of operations and activities will be allowed there,” DC said.The administration has already held talks with a cross-section of society seeking their opinion about opening the city or easing the restrictions. Recently restrictions were eased out at 13 out of 25 containment zones in the Srinagar district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/operations-in-social-sector-to-be-permitted-from-june-1-in-srinagar/story-tFNUOqOuh8ilrzibN2DbbN.html
30-05-2020||City||Graft: Shimla court grants bail to suspended health director||A court here on Saturday granted bail to suspended state health services director Ajay Kumar Gupta.He was arrested by the state vigilance and anti-corruption bureau on graft charges on May 20, after an audio clip of him allegedly asking for ₹5 lakh bribe had surfaced online.Special judge Arvind Malhotra granted him conditional bail after hearing the arguments of public prosecutor Sandeep Atri and defence counsel Kashmir Singh Thakur. He directed Gupta to submit surety and personal bonds of ₹2 lakh each, besides prohibiting him from influencing or talking to any witnesses, and cooperating with the investigation agency.Gupta, who is due to retire on Sunday, is accused of seeking bribe against a purchase of healthcare equipment by his department.Gupta was on five-day police custody till May 30 after initially being remanded to five-day judicial custody following his arrest.He was suspended by the state government following his arrest. Earlier seeking his bail, Thakur argued that the investigators were yet to question Prithvi Singh, who is reportedly a liasioning officer of Punjab’s Dera Bassi-based firm Bio Aid and allegedly recorded the audio, in which he can be heard discussing the handover of ₹5 lakh with Gupta.The health scam took a political turn on May 27, when state BJP chief Rajeev Bindal resigned from his post, saying he was doing so to ensure a proper investigation into the case of alleged corruption by the director.In a resignation letter sent to BJP president J P Nadda, Bindal said he was tendering his resignation on high moral grounds as some people were dragging the party’s name in the alleged corruption by the health official.Defence counsel Thakur argued in the court that purchase of any medical equipment was not made at his client Gupta’s instance. The secretary was aware about the purchase and the order was made by the deputy director, he argued.Seeking Gupta’s bail, Thakur stated that his retirement is due on Sunday.Continuing his submissions on the vigilance bureau’s behalf, public prosecutor Atri sought his police custody. The case is serious and if the quality of personal protection equipment (PPE) is compromised, it may endanger the lives of frontline coronavirus warriors, he said.When asked what evidence the prosecution has against the accused, the public prosecutor stated that the audio clip and documents establishing that the payment was made based on his signatures and the work order was issued by him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/graft-shimla-court-grants-bail-to-suspended-health-director/story-Uds9BWXua51EetHV5332SK.html
30-05-2020||City||After Kashmiri Pandits heartwarming wishes on Eid, Muslims reciprocate on Kheer Bhawani||Hindu-Muslim bonhomie has gone viral on social media following Eid greetings of Kashmiri Pandits to Kashmiri Muslims, who reciprocated on Saturday on the occasion of Mela Kheer Bhawani, one of the biggest religious functions of the Kashmiri Pandits.The newfound bonding between the two communities, bound by a shared culture and separated only by religion, is reminiscent of the pre-militancy days in the Kashmir Valley before 1989.“I vividly remember when the situation was peaceful. I live in a lane at Chanapora (in Srinagar), where almost every house belonged to the Pandits and only a few to Muslims. There was so much love and brotherhood in those days. We used to live like a family,” said Javeed Shah, a Srinagar resident, in chaste Kashmiri in an endearing video.The annual Mela Kheer Bhawani is the biggest Hindu festival in Jammu and Kashmir after the Amarnath Yatra. But this year, the celebrations are muted because of the raging coronavirus pandemic. Eid, too, couldn’t be celebrated because of strict compliance of social distancing norms due to the pandemic. Thousands of Kashmiri Pandits from J&K and outside visit every year to pray at the temple of Kheer Bhawani that houses Hindu goddess Ragnya Devi at Tulmulla village in Ganderbal, about 27km away from Srinagar.“Mubarak to you on the big occasion of Tulmulla (the place where Kheer Bhawani temple is located). May you always smile and be happy,” greets Dr. Ommid in a video.Many Pandits were overwhelmed by the gesture.“Thanks for wonderful gesture. May Mata Rani blesses all of us with good health, prosperity, and peace,” says Roop Krishan Raina in a social media post.The video was uploaded by Amit Wanchoo, a doctor and social activist, who had earlier uploaded a video of Kashmiri Pandits greeting Kashmiri Muslims with Eid Mubarak.Another video wishing the Kashmir Pandits Mubarak on Mela Kheer Bhawani was shared by The Mashq Talks on social media.Local Kashmiri Muslims took care of the Kheer Bhawani shrine after the exodus of a majority of Kashmiri Pandits from the Valley during the first wave of militancy in 1990.The temple has attracted more devotees since 2008, as the militancy waned.There was no congregation at the temple this year, Farooq Ahmad, tehsildar, Tullmulla, said.“A few devotees have been praying since Friday evening as per the custom, which will end on Saturday evening. No mela could be held this year because of the pandemic,” he said.“One of the best things about religions is festivals and the best thing about festivals is culture. Sadly, the Kheer Bhawani festival couldn’t happen this year. Jyestha Ashthami Greetings,” said Shahid Choudhary, deputy commissioner, Srinagar, in a social media post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-kashmiri-pandits-heartwarming-wishes-on-eid-muslims-reciprocate-on-kheer-bhawani/story-H8YltgIR8SFxhRaE9lmaXO.html
30-05-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University puts annual fee hike on hold||The Panjab University syndicate on Saturday decided to indefinitely defer 7.5% fee hike for self-financed courses and 5% for traditional courses for new entrants in the 2020-21 academic session.The fee hike was proposed by a 15-member PU panel set up by the vice-chancellor in a February 20 meeting. The members of the syndicate made the decision considering the Covid-19 lockdown.“The fee hike item was withdrawn and no discussion took place on it. It has been deferred indefinitely owing to the economic situation created by the lockdown,” said a syndicate member, requesting anonymity.Sources said the fee hike for new entrants is unlikely to get the nod later in the year too.Opposition from studentsBefore the meeting, various student organisations protested against the proposed fee hike. Members of the National Students Union of India (NSUI), Students For Society (SFS), Ambedkar Students Association (ASA) and Students Federation of India (SFI) among others handed over representations to syndicate members opposing the hike.Panjab University Campus Students Council (PUCSC) president Chetan Chaudhary, who had also opposed the move in the February meeting, said, “The syndicate has taken the decision in the interest of students.”Additional finances to be affectedIt will be for the first time in many years that PU might not implement the annual fee hike.The annual hike allows the fund-starved varsity shore up finances.PU finance and development officer Vikram Nayyar said: “If the fee hike is not implemented, it will affect the additional funds that were expected from it.”It is learnt the university was expecting additional funds of around Rs 80-90 lakh from the hike.Other decisionsMeanwhile, the syndicate decided to form a committee to review the proposals for introducing several new courses from the next academic session.The tentative academic calendar for the 2020-21 session was also approved. However, the vice-chancellor has been authorised to make changes to it, if needed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-puts-annual-fee-hike-on-hold/story-zLWxThomQyIO8DXU9fxpxK.html
30-05-2020||Chandigarh||Gangster Monty Shah allowed bail in view of Covid threat||A local court on Saturday granted bail to Monty Shah, arrested in a trespassing and Arms Act case, on the his plea to allow him to safeguard himself against Covid-19. In the petition, Shah’s counsel stated he should be granted bail for safety reasons due to the possible threat of him contracting infection behind the bars. The public prosecutor argued that Shah may try to damage evidence and coerce witnesses if granted bail. After hearing both sides, the court approved the bail plea via a video conferencing session. The case in question dates back to November 2018, when police at the Sector 34 station booked Shah for extorting money from the owner of a Burail-based hotel on gunpoint. Shah and his two aides allegedly took Rs 10,000 from the hotel owner after brandishing a gun at his head.Following Shah’s arrest, a country made pistol and seven live cartridges were recovered from him.He was then booked under Sections 382 (theft after preparation made for causing death, hurt or restraint in order to the committing of theft), 452 (house trespass after preparation for hurt, assault and wrongful restraint), 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance with common intention) of the India Penal Code and under Section 25-54-59 of the Arms Act.According to police, an associate of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi, Shah has multiple cases of robbery, arms, extortion and firing registered against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gangster-monty-shah-allowed-bail-in-view-of-covid-threat/story-LmE9rWLwMm9o9qtdp24R4J.html
30-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh man arrested for not wearing face mask in public||A resident of Dariya village was arrested for not wearing a face mask on Saturday. Ashok Kumar was caught by a police team in Manimajra while roaming around without wearing a face mask and disobeying the lockdown orders issued by the district magistrate. A case under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the IT Park police station. He was later released on bail||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-man-arrested-for-not-wearing-face-mask-in-public/story-1nkyDoNq1uRo8bUMbCvmJL.html
30-05-2020||Chandigarh||Panchkula man held with 29gm heroin||The crime branch of Chandigarh Police arrested a Panchkula resident with 29gm heroin on Friday.The accused, Amit Sethi, 43, of Mansa Devi Complex (MDC), Panchkula, was arrested near the DT Mall parking, following a tip-off, said police. He was facing two other cases, one from 2001 when he was booked for murder and another from 2015 when he was arrested with 23gm smack. A case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act was registered at the IT Park police station. He was presented before a court that sent him to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panchkula-man-held-with-29gm-heroin/story-d5B5B9ETtRbSDHSOIn7GfI.html
30-05-2020||City||Mohali gets its first CNG filling station||Union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan inaugurated Mohali district’s first compressed natural gas (CNG) station, through video conference.Named Midway HP Centre, it has been set up by the firm Torrent Gas on the Landran-Chunni road.“72% of the population and 52% of the geographical area of the country is covered by city gas distribution network. The availability of clean and cheap CNG across the country is a critical step towards energy sufficiency. In future, all fuels, including CNG, would be provided at the doorstep of the customers through a mobile delivery system,” said the minister.Jinal Mehta, director, Torrent Gas, said: “The firm is committed to making CNG for vehicles and PNG for industries and residences widely available across all its authorised areas and thereby contribute towards the socio-economic development of these regions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-gets-its-first-cng-filling-station/story-zZRDrf8FDJj0HY8A1G1gMI.html
30-05-2020||Chandigarh||Miscreants attack electrician, rob him of mobile, purse, trousers in Mauli Jagran||An electrician, on his way back home, lost his mobile, purse and trousers to unidentified miscreants after they attacked him in Mauli Jagran on Friday night. The victim, identified as Santosh Sharma, 32, said he had to do some electrical fitting work at a hotel in Zirakpur. Once he finished his work, one of the employees of the hotel dropped him till Raipur Kalan, from where he started walking home.When he reached Mauli Jagran, he saw a group of youths fighting with each other. He tried to intervene following which, the miscreants hit him on the head, leaving him profusely bleeding. The men then snatched his mobile phone and purse, containing around Rs 100 and some important documents. The men even took away his trousers. After they left, the victim managed to walk back home even though he was bleeding profusely. His family members then took him to Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, for treatment. A case of snatching and assault has been registered against unidentified persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/miscreants-attack-electrician-rob-him-of-mobile-purse-trousers-in-mauli-jagran/story-h62jd0k7rA6TzKy28QIVNL.html
30-05-2020||City||Haryana’s crop diversification drive catching farmers’ eye||The Haryana government’s financial incentive-linked diversification drive to encourage farmers to switch over to alternate crops in place of water guzzler paddy has started gaining the toehold.About three weeks after the ‘Mera Pani- Meri Virasat’ policy was launched, followed by protests of the opposition Congress, other parties and a section of farmers, over 26,000 farmers have opted for the scheme till May 30.The agricultural land these farmers have so far registered for sowing crops such as maize (5,254 hectare), bajra (3,870 hectare), cotton (19,247 hectare) and starting horticulture in place of paddy is over 30,557 hectare, as per sources in the agriculture department. There is no deadline for registration on the portal. The farmers switching over to alternate crop in place of paddy will be paid ₹7,000 per acre incentive as the objective of this policy is to encourage farmers to cultivate alternate crops in the area that was under paddy cultivation last year.As per the data, farmers from across the state have been registering themselves on the ‘Mera Pani- Meri Virasat’ portal, mentioning the area of the land and alternate crops they wish to grow.The state government has promised these farmers that it will procure maize and cotton under the minimum support price (MSP). “The objective of the policy is to encourage farmers to voluntarily opt for crop diversification and become eligible for ₹7,000 per acre financial incentive,” a top government functionary said.Eight paddy-rich blocks, including Ratia (Fatehabad), Siwan and Guhla (Kaithal), Pipli, Shahabad, Babain and Ismailabad (Kurukshetra) and Sirsa block of Sirsa district, where the depth of ground water level exceeds 40 meters, have been primarily included in this scheme.The policy “advises” farmers of these eight blocks to diversify more than 50% land that was under paddy cultivation last year to become eligible for the financial incentive. There are 12 other blocks with water depth of more than 35 metres and the panchayats of these blocks own the agricultural land. The government will not give permission for paddy cultivation in such blocks to the panchayats. However, ₹7,500 per acre incentive amount will be given to the concerned panchayat.As per official records, six gram panchayats had submitted a petition in the Punjab and Haryana high court challenging this policy. A two-judge bench of the high court, however, dismissed the gram panchayats case on May 28.While marginal farmers having three acre land are eligible for ₹7,000 incentive by diversifying one acre land, the policy “advises” farmers using 50 HP electric motor to operate tubewells against paddy cultivation.The crop diversification drive of the BJP-JJP coalition government comes ahead of paddy transplantation, which begins on June 15. Haryana produces near 68 lakh metric tonne (LMT) paddy, including over 25 LMT basmati. The land under paddy transplantation across the state is about 32 lakh acre.The cultivation of paddy has contributed to degradation of natural resource such as water and soil. Also, the ground water table of Haryana has been declining steadily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-s-crop-diversification-drive-catching-farmers-eye/story-GcBgy4MywdKoVeql9Si2wJ.html
30-05-2020||Chandigarh||Residents facing shortage of water try to install private tubewell in Ludhiana, officials confiscate equipment||Irked over no water supply for months, residents of New Sundar Nagar (ward number 31) commenced the installation of a tubewell in their area on their own on Saturday amid a protest against councillor Sonia Sharma and the municipal corporation (MC).After getting information about the same, a team of MC officials, along with police force, reached the spot and confiscated the equipment. The residents, however, threatened if the MC failed to solve the problem within 24 hours, they would hold a sit-in outside residences of the mayor and the MC commissioner with empty buckets on Monday.Residents rued they had been facing the problem of water scarcity for years and the authorities had provided only a temporary solution to the problem. But, for the past few months, they said, they had been facing a lot of trouble and the authorities have failed to pay any heed to the problem.A resident, Rakesh Kumar, said, “Several complaints have been made to the authorities and councillor Sonia Sharma in the past, but no one is paying heed to the problem while we are continuing facing an acute shortage of water. The authorities are asking us to maintain hand hygiene, but water is not being provided in the area even for drinking.”SAD leader Sandeep Shukla said, “A few property dealers have constructed illegal colonies in the New Sundar Nagar area and now, neither the colonisers nor the MC, is providing facilities to residents. The residents are forced to bring water from nearby areas or from the houses where submersible pumps have been installed. Besides lodging several complaints, we also contacted mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu on Saturday, who assured to look into the problem.”BJP councillor Sonia Sharma said, “Residents are facing shortage of water due to the construction of illegal colonies in the area and the supply of water is less than demand. I had raised the issue in the meeting of the MC General House also, but no action was taken against such colonies. The MC should take action against illegal colonies and their connections should be snapped.”Sandhu said, “I have asked the officials to find a solution to the problem and soon water supply would be resumed in the area. Officials have also been told to send water tanks in the area for supplying potable water.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/residents-facing-shortage-of-water-try-to-install-private-tubewell-in-ludhiana-officials-confiscate-equipment/story-HUm8SrhRSV2UQOy9DkjVYL.html
30-05-2020||City||Kalka locality declared containment zone||A day after a couple from Ahmedabad, Gujarat, tested positive for Covid-19 in Panchkula, the district magistrate has declared Kailash Heights in Kalka — the residential area they were visiting — as a containment zone.The 30-year-old man and his 24-year-old wife were visiting Kalka to attend the death ceremony of a family member. The district magistrate has directed the municipal commissioner to ensure the entire containment zone and buffer zone are sanitised and arrangements are made for disposal of solid waste.The deputy commissioner of police has been asked to deploy sufficient force to restrict entry and exit of persons in these zones and to control the vehicular movement by setting up nakas. The civil surgeon has also been asked to deploy sufficient teams for door-to-door screening. The officials have been directed to ensure uninterrupted supply of drinking water and essential items. Cabbie, co-passengers, relatives quarantinedThe couple had flown from Ahmadabad to Delhi and then changed their flight to reach Chandigarh . The Panchkula health department has sought list of all crew members and passengers.So far, four of the passengers have been traced to Panchkula and have been put under home quarantine.The couple then travelled from Chandigarh to Kalka in a taxi. Its driver has been traced and admitted to the General Hospital in Sector 6, Panchkula.Four persons from Punjab who had attended the death ceremony are also being traced. In all, 90 contacts, including family members, have been quarantined and samples of 41 of them have been taken. The reports are awaited.The district has reported 26 Covid-19 cases so far, of which only one is active.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kalka-locality-declared-containment-zone/story-FYq635z8HcVrUkfflhEL5H.html
30-05-2020||City||Fight over pet dog in Bhayander, corporator booked||A corporator from Bhayander, Nayana Mhatre, and two others were booked by the Bhayander police on Friday over a petty dispute involving a pet dog, resulting in a violent clash. Cross FIRs were registered from both sides and no arrests were made.Dilip Bansode, a resident of Murdha village in Bhayander (West), was walking past the house of one Amrendra on Thursday night when the pet dog of the latter charged and tried to bite Bansode. As a result, Bansode picked up a stone and hit the dog, said Chandrakant Jadhav, PI, Bhayander police station. Amrendra shouted at Bansode and threatened him with dire consequences for hitting his pet dog and the matter seemed to end there, said police.The same evening, Mhatre charged into the Bansode’s home and a heated argument ensued, during which, Mhatre allegedly hit Bansode with a stone and his head started bleeding. We have registered FIRs from both sides against Mhatre, Bansode and Amrendra for assault, cruelty to animals and other charges, although no arrests have been made yet, said Jadhav.Mhatre, however, denied that she has assaulted Bansode and instead blamed him for hitting Amrendra’s dog. Bansode claimed that the dog regularly attempts to bite him whenever he crosses Amrendra’s house and to save himself he had to stone the canine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fight-over-pet-dog-in-bhayander-corporator-booked/story-chIdMNuut58iR04KDDuy9I.html
30-05-2020||City||Two arrested for making fake e-pass in Kalyan||Two people were arrested for making fake e-passes, medical certificate and other documents for private vehicles in Kalyan. Police seized 20 fake e-passes from them on Saturday. Pramod Bhujbal, 38, the café owner, and his employee Padmakar Pawar, 32, were arrested. According to police, the accused started making fake e-passes when some people came to his cyber cafe and took prints of documents for e-pass. The Khadakpada police personnel and the deputy police commissioner got suspicious when scrutinising documents of Ravichand Vaghari, who wanted to go to Gujarat, and started inquiring. Vaghari told the police that he paid ₹2,000 for the documents. They then laid a trap at the cyber cafe. A senior police officer from Khadakpada police station said, “ We have seized the computer and are checking how many people they have issued passes to. We have registered a case under sections 468,471, 188 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-arrested-for-making-fake-e-pass-in-kalyan/story-LpJ8EQdAEt0dwC6zFt3dzN.html
30-05-2020||Mumbai||Illegal telephone exchange used to call J&K defence personnel busted, 1 arrested||The crime branch of Mumbai Police busted an illegal telephone exchange racket operating from Govandi and arrested one person on Saturday. Agencies are probing if a terror or spy network was operating using multiple SIM boxes as several calls were made to defence establishments in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K).A SIM box routes international calls as local calls, allowing the box’s operator to bypass international rates charged by local mobile network operators. The SIM boxes are fitted with hundreds of GSM SIM cards procured using fake IDs.“Two mobile numbers used to make calls were traced to Govandi. These two numbers were kept under surveillance. All the calls received by the parallel exchange were made from abroad. We have started an investigation based on the seizures,” said Akbar Pathan, deputy commissioner of police (detection 1). Sources stated that the calls were made to seek information on defence establishments. Police seized a total of five SIM boxes, of which one was inactive, and have also recovered 223 SIM cards, 10 mobile phones, a laptop modem, connection board and batteries in the raid conducted at a room of a building in Natwar Parekh compound in Govandi.Police have arrested Sameer Alwari, 38, in connection with the raid. The accused was living with his family in the room in Govandi. He was previously arrested in Thane in 2017 for similar crimes. After scrutinising the number and its call records, the crime branch found that Alwari made and received several calls from other countries. The accused would illegally convert voice-over-internet telephony (VoIP) calls from abroad into a local call through the illegal international gateway.In a statement issued by Mumbai Police, the crime branch said that it received a tip-off about a parallel exchange suspected to be used for anti-national activities by unfriendly nations. “As such calls are not regulated, they can be used for anti-national activities,” read the statement. Such rackets also lead to a loss to the national exchequer and service providers. Investigations revealed that two numbers of the same service provider registered in Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh were used to divert calls. In February this year, the crime branch has busted a similar racket operating from Noida in Uttar Pradesh and Changaramkulam in Kerala. Police seized a total of eight SIM boxes and recovered 686 SIM cards from the raids in the two cities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/illegal-telephone-exchange-used-to-call-j-k-defence-personnel-busted-1-arrested/story-C4yrryCUYfWZfFpEGV4CXJ.html
30-05-2020||Chandigarh||More rain, winds on the cards in Chandigarh||Up to 30mm rain along with winds blowing at speeds up to 50 km/hour is expected in Chandigarh on Sunday.Even as just trace rainfall was recorded on Saturday evening, India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials said that heavier spells are likely in the coming days, though the intensity would decrease after Sunday.“Chances of light rain up to 10mm along with gusty winds at speeds up to 40 km/hour remain till Tuesday. However, maximum temperature will start to rise from Monday onwards,” said an IMD official.Maximum temperature went up from 32.1°C on Friday to 32.8°C on Saturday. Minimum temperature went down from 25.2°C to 24.4°C. In the next three days, maximum temperature will remain between 31 and 34 degrees while minimum will remain between 25 and 26 degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/more-rain-winds-on-the-cards-in-chandigarh/story-tYgE6Yz6Q4q8I3HI2zWVoI.html
30-05-2020||City||Delhi banker’s wife, dhaba owner’s son test positive for Covid-19 in Mohali||Two fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported in Mohali on Saturday, taking the district’s total count to 114.Of these only nine remain active, as 102 people have recovered so far while three have died.Those tested positive include a 29-year-old woman from Sector 71, whose husband was recently found infected upon returning from Delhi, said civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh.A State Bank of India employee, the husband had been residing in Delhi for the past two years and was visiting his family when he developed symptoms and was tested positive on May 27. The woman was asymptomatic, but tested positive after her samples were taken.The other case pertains to a 21-year-old youth from Sector 77, whose samples were collected at the flu clinic in the civil hospital after he showed mild symptoms.“We have already quarantined and taken samples of his father, mother and sister. The family runs a dhaba and we are trying to ascertain his other contacts,” said Dr Singh, adding that the youth has no travel history and his source of infection in not known yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-banker-s-wife-dhaba-owner-s-son-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-mohali/story-RC02r1GPb2v4izeThNEfcL.html
30-05-2020||City||Karnal man burnt to death in mysterious shop fire||A 26-year-old man got burnt to death after he mysteriously caught fire in his transformer repair shop in Jundla village here on Saturday.The deceased has been identified as Deepak Sandhu of Gagsina village of Karnal district.Police said the reason behind the fire could not be ascertained, but Deepak’s family members suspect that some miscreants might have set the shop on fire, while he was asleep in there.They said Deepak never downed the shutter of the shop, but when they arrived there after learning about the fire, they found the found the shutter closed. The family members then informed the fire brigade, following which a fire tender arrived at the spot and contained the blaze.Karnal Sadar police station in-charge Baljeet Singh said that based on the family members’ complaint, an FIR has been lodged under Sections 302 (murder) against unknown persons and investigation initiated.Singh said Deepak’s body has been handed over to the family after post-mortem examination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/karnal-man-burnt-to-death-in-mysterious-shop-fire/story-jTOtxLKChJCUeXeXXg8y9J.html
30-05-2020||City||Debt-ridden farmer commits suicide in Sonepat||A debt-ridden farmer committed suicide by hanging himself from a tree in his fields at Sonepat’s Katwal village on Saturday, police said.The farmer Ajit Kumar, 38, took the extreme step as he was upset after his wheat crop’s production was hit due to untimely rain and hailstorms. He is survived by his parents, three children and wife.His father, Ram Kishan, said his son had taken a loan of ₹10 lakh from a landlord and was unable to repay it as he had faced a huge loss in wheat production this time.“Ajit had sown wheat on eight acres of land and had taken 10 acres of land on lease at ₹35,000 per acre to sow wheat. Due to untimely rain and hailstorms in winter, our crop was damaged. Since then, he was upset and committed suicide. He was the sole breadwinner of the family,” Kishan said.Assistant sub-inspector Samunder Singh said no suicide note was recovered from the spot.“The body was handed over to his family after autopsy. We have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPc,” the ASI said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/debt-ridden-farmer-commits-suicide-in-sonepat/story-eAT1rqfULMG5ounzGL9wjN.html
30-05-2020||City||Suicide pact: 23-year-old man, minor cousin end lives in Samrala||A 23-year-old man and his 17-year-old cousin sister committed suicide by consuming poison at the respective houses in Nauladi village of Samrala on Friday night.Police said a suicide note was found where the duo had stated that “they were in relationship for the past 10 years and had decided to end their lives as their relationship was not acceptable in society”.Inspector Sikandar Singh, SHO at Samrala police station, said both of them consumed celphos tablets at the same time on Friday night. Their families rushed them to different hospitals, where they died during treatment.The SHO said a suicide note was found on the man’s person and was signed by both of them. Written in Punjabi, it said, “Asi 10 saal to pyaar karde haan, dasso ki kariye (we have been in love for 10 years, please suggest what should we do).”In the note, the couple requested their family members to kill them if they survived, and also wished to be cremated together, the SHO said.The bodies were handed over to the families after post-mortem examination. Police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) following the statements of their family members.While the deceased man was youngest among three siblings and worked as a salesman at a grocery store, the girl had two brothers and had just passed Class 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/suicide-pact-23-year-old-man-minor-cousin-end-lives-in-samrala/story-rwt5GIQ49IHidM3M1KaMUP.html
30-05-2020||City||Taxi union stages protest, demands waiver of taxes, permit fees in Ludhiana||Members of the taxi union staged a protest on the Jagraon Bridge here on Saturday, demanding waiver of taxes and passes for movement of taxis in the city. They raised slogans against the government and threatened to launch an agitation if their demands were not met.The All Driver Helpline Union rued that rather than providing support to taxi service owners, the state government is levying taxes and imposing penalties on them.Union president Jaswant Singh Dhillon said, “The taxi business is at an all-time low as the movement of people is restricted and they are also avoiding taxis at this time for fear of catching the virus. Our demands include waiver of taxes for two years, waiver of passing permit fees, six-month moratorium on payment of bank loans and issuance of passes for movement of taxis.” Jaideep Singh, a leader of the Punjab Taxi Union, said, “The Delhi government is also helping cab drivers at this time, but the Punjab government is not paying heed to their problems. We will launch an agitation in the coming days if the state government fails to provide relief to taxi service providers.”Extending support to protesters, Youth Akali Dal (YAD) district president Gurdeep Gosha said, “The Uttarakhand government has provided relief to taxi operators, but the Punjab government is levying taxes and imposing penalties to collect money. How will taxi operators pay bank installments if they are not even able to cater to their daily needs?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/taxi-union-stages-protest-demands-waiver-of-taxes-permit-fees-in-ludhiana/story-9ifhpgRKXB54p6Qra22MsK.html
30-05-2020||City||Missing liquor case: Haryana special probe team gets two-month extension||The Haryana government on Saturday extended term of the special inquiry team (SET) headed by ACS, power, TC Gupta to probe the theft of liquor stored in a warehouse at Sonepat’s Kharkhauda. The probe team, which was originally asked to submit its report by May 31, was given a two-month extension and will submit the report by July 31, as per a home department order.One of the members of the probe team, ADGP, vigilance bureau, Subhash Yadav, who retires on May 31, was replaced by Gurgaon police commissioner, Muhammad Akil. Additional excise and taxation commissioner Vijai Singh is the third member of the probe team.The special inquiry team has been asked to check the actual availability of liquor stocks in all warehouses sealed by the excise department during the last two years for any violation. It will also examine the cases of seizure of illicit/ non-excise duty paid liquor in Haryana between April 2019 and March 2020, both by the police and excise departments separately, with special reference to action and fines imposed by the excise department following recovery of liquor.The probe team will also collect and collate the results of investigation of the FIRs registered from March 15, 2020 till April 10 for pilferage of liquor from L-1 and L-13 godowns and also from the police ‘malkhanas’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/missing-liquor-case-haryana-special-probe-team-gets-two-month-extension/story-mw11I4Q3MD3Qw188M5bOGO.html
30-05-2020||City||Plywood industries in Yamunanagar bear the brunt of lockdown||Even as the Haryana government allowed industrial units in the state to operate with 100% workforce, prominent plywood manufactures in Yamunanagar are still bearing the brunt of the Covid-19 lockdown as migrant labourers have left for their home states and the demand from bigger buyers is bleak.More than one lakh people are directly or indirectly associated with the plywood industries in the district.President of Haryana Plywood Industries Association, Jugal Kishore Bhiani, said, “Most of our labourers were migrants from UP, Bihar, Odisha and Madhya Pradesh. Now, most of them have gone back to their homes. Currently, most industries in Yamunanagar are working with 15% to 20% workforce. We cannot hire local labour due to finance and skill factors,” he said.“Also, the supply line of our finished products is still bleak as most buyers are from Maharashtra, Gujarat and Delhi, which are most affected due to coronavirus. At present, the demand is only from small buyers in Haryana, Punjab or Rajasthan,” Bhiani said.“The Haryana government is also yet to take the cue of our earlier demands on refund of license fees deposited with them. It can act as an economic booster for us,” he added.The All India Plywood Manufacturing Association under president Devendra Chawla had raised the issue of refund, after a meeting with officials of the state government last month. Cabinet minister Kanwar Pal, who is an MLA from Jagadhari constituency, had said, “The state government had decided to do away with charging this fee and refund the amount to industrialists. The matter is under process.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/plywood-industries-in-yamunanagar-bear-the-brunt-of-lockdown/story-yo0wcyduCNERkcZ7tt1c9H.html
30-05-2020||India||Now paying: Covid-19 protection fee for salon services?||Gurugrammers couldn’t be happier when salons got a green signal in the millennium city. But, now there has come a shocker for those visiting the salons. Shikha Sheth, a Gurugram-based corporate, recently posted on social media about her experience at a salon where she went to avail the much-awaited hair and beauty care, and in return was handed over a bill that charged her a ‘Covid Protection Fee’; this charge was beyond the cost of services she had availed at the salon.Sharing the incident on Facebook, Sheth wrote: “I asked for the bill to be seen as I thought it seemed bloated. When I looked at the line items, there was a charge of INR 240 for Covid protection - I asked what this is and I was told that its all the covid gear that they are using (sic).”Read More: Stylists in PPE kit, service by appointment: Parlours, salons open amid Covid-19 pandemicWhen contacted, Sheth, who works with a global executive search firm, says the problem was “non-disclosure”, and adds, “I asked them to show me the bill and the guy at the counter hesitated. He wasn’t giving a print out and said ‘You come here and see on the screen’. I saw the ‘Covid Protection Fee’ and I pointed out ‘What is this?’ To which he said ‘All the kits and stuff like that’... I remember when I had entered the salon, they were not wearing shoe covers, there was a sanitiser but no face shields. PPE kits that they claim they’re supposed to be wearing were like an apron. When I’m paying a bill of ₹1,700, and in addition giving a tip of ₹100, why would I have a problem paying another ₹247? My problem is, why didn’t they didn’t tell me at the time of booking of the appointment. If it’s a new addition, the necessity to pay this service charge is neither displayed at the reception nor at the entry door. The lady (at the front desk) said ‘If you’re not going to pay, we’ll inflate your bill by 10%’. To me, this is a clear case of duping the customers.” Read More: Gyms, salon owners seek govt nod to open shops from June 1When contacted, director of the salon in question, Manisha Yadav, told us that she’s investigating the matter, but also emphasised that their expenses have shot through the roof. “This is the charge we are taking for the disposables we are using. We have been open for many days and nobody has really said anything, but maybe she was not told prior. Otherwise, we don’t take the customer only. There is an extra charge because we are using additional things [like] extra set of disposables. The moment you walk in the salon, you are given shoe cover, and even the fabric is sanitised. We are not cutting corners, but saying that protection is the most important thing not just for my customers, but even for my staff. We are not going to take any chance as health is most important. People are not realising that more than them, my staff is at risk! We don’t earn that much money, and the amount of money that is spent on disposables right now [is quite something] because the customers walking in, are very less,” says Yadav, adding, “We have taken this feedback. There’s a talk going on with all salon owners. We will try and see the best possible way, so that nobody feels the pinch.”Unlike Sheth, other denizens feel such a charge is completely uncalled for! Smriti Chhabra, who is the founder of a community of Gurugrammers, says, “Some doctors are also charging extra for PPE gear, which they are asking the patients to wear during check up. We understand that it’s an additional cost for salons, to add to their consumables to run their operations. But why are the customers being charged for it? And if they are charging it, then there should be a capping on the amount as it shouldn’t pinch the customers visiting them.” Some of the salon owners/management also question this new charge that has become the bone of contention in the current scenario considering some disposables were part of the services earlier as well. “I’m not sure in what capacity is this being charged” says, Sonali Bhambri, director, Toni & Guy (North India), adding, “In our gear, disposable sheets, strips and face napkins, were already there. In hair, we have shifted from regular towels to disposable towels, which is an added cost, but as of now we are not charging extra for that bit.” Divya Parchani, marketing manager - India, Geetanjali Salon, informs that they have made a Covid-19 test mandatory for their employees, and alongside provided PPE kits and introduced disposable towels etc. “If I sell a particular service for ₹400, it accounts for the employee fee, different expenses plus a profit margin. Now, the expense per service has gone up. It’s subjective for every brand if they are unable to pay it from their pocket, and totally depends on what is the profit margin that the brand has. Presently, we are not charging any such fee, and as a brand we feel we shouldn’t be charging such a fee right now,” says Parchani.Some who frequent salons say that they don’t mind paying extra, but demand prior clarity. “You can increase the price of the services your giving by 10-15%, but a mandatory Covid-19 charge is unacceptable,” opines Aparna Tandon, a Delhi-based entrepreneur, whereas Gurugram resident Nidhi Wahi Gaura, adds, “Whatever addition is made in the billing, it must be informed to the customer prior to being served. If the customer agrees to pay it, only then should the salon proceed with the service.”Author tweets @nainaarora8Follow @htlifeandstyle for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/now-paying-covid-19-protection-fee-for-salon-services/story-SyVIfCG5X4X2sny4eYpmZO.html
30-05-2020||City||Lioness delivers three cubs at Pipli zoo, one dies||An Asiatic lioness has delivered three male cubs at the Pipli Zoo in Kurukshetra, as per state wildlife authorities.However, the officials said, one of the cubs died within 48 hours of delivery.Director of Pipli Zoo, Tejbir Singh, said the lioness Sakshi gave birth to three male cubs on May 17 and one of them died soon after. He said a team of veterinary doctors is taking case of the cubs and the lioness, who have been kept under CCTV surveillance to ensure survival. They have been separated from their father Geet, he added. The pair of Gir lions—Sakshi,8, and Geet,10,—were brought to the Pipli zoo from Junagadh in Gujarat in December 2015. The zoo has remained closed for public since March following the Covid-19 lockdown. Singh said the lioness Sakshi is lactating the cubs which is good for their immunity. Veterinary expert, Dr Ashok Khasa, who is taking care of the cubs, said, “They are under watch through CCTV cameras but we believe that this time the chances of their survival are very strong as Sakshi was taking good care of the cubs and has developed motherly hormones.”According to wildlife experts, unlike tigers, lions live in large groups in natural conditions such as forests and lionesses collectively take care of cubs. However, since it was Sakshi’s fourth consecutive delivery and second in the past two years, experts expected that she would take care of them naturally. In August, 2018, Sakshi had delivered five cubs of which two had died. The three cubs were named as Arjun, Geeta and Sudha. Arjun and Geeta got their names from Mahabharta since they were born in Kurukshetra. Sudha was named after Thanesar MLA Subhash Sudha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lioness-delivers-three-cubs-at-pipli-zoo-one-dies/story-4PoD3fitMjYPlu1rqLDLzO.html
30-05-2020||Education||Primary students to study on digital learning platform from June 1 in Bihar||Responding to chief minister Nitish Kumar’s call, the Bihar Education Project Council (BEPC) has decided to launch a digital learning platform for students of Class 1 to 5 on Doordarshan (DD) Bihar from June 1.In a bid to help the students to carry on their learning in the face of suspension of their conventional classes due to Covid-19, the BEPC had started conducting digital teaching sessions on DD Bihar for students of Class 6 to 12 in a phase manner since April 20.Impressed by the same, the CM on May 18 had asked the education department to expand the e-content to students of Class 1 to 5 also.Following this, the BEPC in partnership with Unicef prepared the content to teach the students through television classroom. The state programme officer of BEPC Kiran Kumari said, “With addition of lower primary section, the council is set to deliver lesson for all the classes. We have booked an additional two-hour slot of DD Bihar for lower primary classes.”DD Bihar will telecast lessons for students of Class 1 to 5 from 3 pm to 5 pm everyday. Kumari added that the lessons for students of Class 6 to 12 will continue as usual in June following the existing routine.Altogether 24 classes for upper primary, 39 classes for secondary and 26 classes for senior secondary have been conducted till May 29.Kumari said, “With uncertainty looming over reopening of schools, the digital classroom is an effective medium to reach students and familiarise them with their syllabus. The students will not feel overburdened with syllabus after reopening of schools. ”Pramila Manoharan, education specialist of Unicef, said, “We have designed content for primary students based on the syllabus prescribed by the education department.The e-content designed will contain fundamental language, mathematics and social science integrated in the form of stories and songs for their fun learning.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/primary-students-to-study-on-digital-learning-platform-from-june-1-in-bihar/story-meED9ARtncHV8LUfPR1jTN.html
30-05-2020||Chandigarh||New discharge policy for Covid-19 patients triggers protest in Punjab||Farmers and labourers staged protests over the new discharge policy for Covid-19 patients across the state on Saturday. The protesters alleged that Covid-19 patients were being sent to home and may spread the contagion in villages.Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan) district leader Jagtar Singh Kalajhar said, “There was a state-level call for protests. The government is escaping from its responsibility. We demand that all patients, who were sent home, should be re-admitted to hospitals and the government should bear their medical and food expenses.” The farmers also demanded that staff in government hospitals should be regularised and the health workers should be provided life insurance of Rs 50 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/new-discharge-policy-for-covid-19-patients-triggers-protest-in-punjab/story-F865TZkkvuYJNMDA4BGmRO.html
30-05-2020||Chandigarh||Temperature drops by five degrees in HP as rainfall continues||The middle and lower hills continued to receive rain and hail for the third consecutive day in Himachal on Saturday. The minimum temperatures in the state were one-two degrees below normal while the maximum temperatures were five degrees below normal.The state meteorological department has issued a yellow warning for Chamba, Kangra, Kullu and Shimla for May 31. The yellow warning means people should factor in travel delays, or disruption of day-to-day activities due to inclement weather.State meteorological department director Dr Manmohan Singh said due to a fresh western disturbance, rainfall, accompanied by hailstorm and thunderstorm, was likely to continue throughout the state till June 1. “The weather will remain dry in lower and middle hills on June 2 and 3 but it will continue to rain in the higher hills till June 3. Rainfall is likely to continue throughout the state from June 4 onwards,” he said.The maximum temperature in Shimla, the state’s capital, also dropped by a few notches as it recorded a maximum temperature of 21.3°C.Kufri, near Shimla, recorded a maximum temperature of 18.5°C, while Manali, a popular hill station, recorded a maximum temperature of 23.8°C. Another prominent hill station, Dalhousie in Chamba recorded a maximum temperature of 16.1°C, while Dharamshala recorded a maximum temperature of 25.4°C.The temperatures in Solan, Bilaspur, Hamirpur and Nahan were 26.5°C, 34.5°C, 34.2°C and 29.9°C, respectively.Kalpa in Kinnaur recorded a maximum temperature of 20.6°C. Recording a minimum temperature of 5.2°C, Keylong in Lahaul-Spiti district was the coldest in the state while Una was the hottest at 37°C. Una’s maximum temperature had been above 40°C earlier in the week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rainfall-hailstorm-spell-continues-in-himachal/story-7FFNQXuG71j97eC8rsLh8K.html
30-05-2020||Education||State-run Bengal varsities recommend continued suspension of classes till June 30||Vice-chancellors of state universities in West Bengal have recommended that the government continues the suspension of classes till June 30 in view of the situation brought about by the COVID-19 outbreak and Cyclone Amphan.The vice-chancellors took a resolution in this regard during a meeting held on Friday.“Academic activities on campuses will remain suspended till June 30. This is the recommendation of the Upacharya Parishad (Bengal Vice-chancellors’ Council) to the West Bengal government,” Subiresh Bhattacharya, general secretary of the body and vice-chancellor of the North Bengal University, told PTI.Issues like maintenance of academic calendar in the wake of the suspension of classes and campus activities since March 16, ways to conduct final semester exams, how to follow the choice-based-credit-system (CBCS) module and efficacy of holding online classes were also discussed in the meeting, another vice-chancellor said.Education Minister Partha Chatterjee had said the state government will let the universities decide on the possible date of reopening of the campuses and wait for the recommendations of the VC council to the Higher Education Department in this regard.“The varsities will also decide the date of holding final year semester exams and apprise the Higher Education Department accordingly,” Chatterjee had said.The state government had on May 27 announced that the state-run schools will remain closed till June 30 due to damages caused to the school buildings by the cyclone and also because some educational institutes are being used as quarantine centres.The minister had left it to the authorities of the colleges and universities to decide on the possible date of resumption of campus activities.The VC council consists of representatives of all the 20 state universities in West Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/state-run-bengal-varsities-recommend-continued-suspension-of-classes-till-june-30/story-qwEB0DnZ45JTAycgkHnUVK.html
30-05-2020||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath asks officials to provide financial help to those left destitute by lockdown||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday directed officials to provide an interim assistance of Rs2,000 to those left destitute by the coronavirus lockdown and Rs1,000 to those who do have ration cards to get foodgrains.He also asked officials to provide Rs5,000 for the last rites of a destitute person.During a meeting to review the lockdown, he directed officials to ensure immediate treatment to destitute people having serious illness even if they are not covered under the Ayushman Bharat Yojana or the Mukhyamantri Jan Arogya Yojana, an official spokesman said.A help of Rs2,000 should be extended as interim assistance besides making proper arrangement for their treatment, the chief minister told the officials.In the event of death of a destitute person, he directed them to provide Rs5,000 as assistance for performing the last rites, the spokesman said.Those not having foodgrains should be given Rs1,000 and their ration cards should be made. It should be ensured that no one goes hungry in the state, Adityanath said.He also asked for making food and drinking water arrangements for workers and labourers going to other states from UP. All those coming to the state should be properly screened and those found healthy should be sent for home quarantine with ration kits.Saying that monitoring committees set up in rural and urban areas were helping in checking the spread of the coronavirus infection, the CM stressed on a regular dialogue with their members for collecting feedback of their surveillance work.Asking the police to ensure regular and continued patrolling to ensure a strict lockdown, he said people should not be allowed to gather and supply chains should be maintained properly.He also said insecticides should be regularly sprayed to end the locust attack.Directing for taking up digging of ponds before the start of monsoon, he said this could be done through MNREGS and added that the mud retrieved from ponds could be provided to potters free of cost by coordinating with Mati Kala Board.He said digging of pits for planting saplings under the plantation drive should be started with the help of labourers under the MNREGS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/yogi-adityanath-asks-officials-to-provide-financial-help-to-those-left-destitute-by-lockdown/story-DrcI8XBExKRljp6NCpJ6ML.html
30-05-2020||Pune||Workers from West Bengal depart Pune to more challenges at home||The wait for migrant workers from West Bengal ended on Friday after two Shramik special trains left for Kolkata from the Pune railway station.Workers en route Kolkata were temporarily relieved, however, more challenges await them back home. The fury of cyclone Amphan has destroyed houses of some of the construction workers, after reaching Kolkata they have no option but to build a new house.Manoj Jhawar, Pune railway division spokesperson said, “On Friday, two trains were sent from Pune railway station to West Bengal. First train was scheduled to go to Howrah at 4pm and the other was scheduled for Malda at 10 pm. We make sure that social distancing is maintained and temperatures of passengers are checked while boarding.”Alongside workers from Kolkata, there were several stranded migrants outside the station premise still waiting in the hope to get the train to go to their native places. The migrants from various states like Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Uttarakhand are staying in PMC’s parking lot near the railway station.Jhulan, a migrant from Bihar said, “After seeing stranded people from West Bengal depart by train, we are now even more hopeful and relieved. We are ready to wait until our turn comes without worrying over it. But the only concern is, the place where we are staying lacks cleanliness and no one from administration pays attention to clean the surroundings even once in a day.”Another stranded migrant from Bihar who refused to disclose his name said, “We might catch other infections than Covid-19 due to the negligence of the administration to clean this place.”Naval Kishore Ram, Pune district collector said, “Our officials are working day and night to collect the data, send it to railways and accordingly plan their journey in order to send the migrants back home. We will send all those who are willing to go back to their states and arrangements are been made. Will look at the issue of cleanliness outside the railway station and provide better facilities from our side to the passengers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/workers-from-west-bengal-depart-pune-to-more-challenges-at-home/story-FyFFBRdLpYC56a3GqcNN8L.html
30-05-2020||Pune||Ajit Pawar inaugurates flyover at Pimpri-Chinchwad||Ajit Pawar, deputy chief minister of Maharashtra, on Friday, inaugurated new flyover at Jagtap Dairy in Pimpri-Chinchwad.The flyover which is erected by Pimpri Chinchwad New Town Development Authority (PCNTDA) on a Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) route and will help smooth flow of traffic between Ravet and Aundh, according to officials.Members of the ruling Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) in Pimpri-Chinchwad refrained from the inauguration programme and alleged that mayor Usha Dhore had inaugurated the same flyover on March 9, but PCNTDA again closed it as they wanted Pawar to inaugurate it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/ajit-pawar-inaugurates-flyover-at-pimpri-chinchwad/story-HLBtJb7zvbHVqyPhJjgyoI.html
30-05-2020||Chandigarh||Undertrial tests positive in Hisar||A 34-year-old inmate at Hisar Jail tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday.The undertrial, a resident of Fatehabad, was arrested by the Hisar women’s police on May 27 on molestation charges.Hisar civil surgeon Dr Yogesh Kumar said, “The undertrial was produced before the judicial magistrate on May 28. The next day he tested positive for the infection.”“We will trace the patient’s travel history and collect samples of his contacts. We have started collecting samples of inmates, jail officials, and court employees,” the CMO said.The patient has been admitted to the isolation ward of the civil hospital. 11 HOME QUARANTINEDAs many as eleven people, including the judicial magistrate first class and other employees of court, who were present during the hearing have been put under home quarantine, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/undertrial-tests-positive-in-hisar/story-vJ6Hj8I4W90XQQJWOzqM5K.html
30-05-2020||Ranchi||Quarantined doctor booked for rape bid on colleague||A junior resident doctor working in Covid ward of Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) here lodged an FIR late on Thursday evening against a senior resident doctor accusing him of attempt to rape, police said on Friday.The police, however, is left in a fix over the arrest of the senior doctor, as he went into quarantine for 14 days on the morning after the alleged incident took place.Officer-in-charge of Bariatu police station, Sapan Mahta said, “The lady doctor, in her statement, said they were on duty in the Covid ward on Wednesday night. After the duty hours got over, the senior doctor came to her room, switched off the lights and attempted to sexually assault her. The incident took place on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday as per the statement of the lady doctor.”Mahta said the senior doctor has been booked under Sections 376 (Punishment for rape) and 511 (Punishment for attempting to commit offences punishable with imprisonment for life or other imprisonment) of the Indian Penal Code. “The victim’s statement will also be recorded before a magistrate,” he said.The officer, however, said they were facing a technical glitch over taking immediate action against the senior doctor as he was in quarantine. “The doctor went into quarantine on Thursday morning after the alleged incident took place on Wednesday night. We are trying to resolve this issue,” he said.A senior official at RIMS said doctors who serve in the Covid ward for a week are sent to quarantine for 14 days. The accused doctor is currently serving quarantine at a city hotel.Meanwhile, Junior Doctors’ Association, RIMS, demanded speedy action into the case. “We want fair inquiry into the case and the victim should get justice at the earliest,” said association president, Dr Ajit Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/quarantined-doctor-booked-for-rape-bid-on-colleague/story-2w3QgoD40fJdOeCBG2BRXK.html
30-05-2020||Chandigarh||15 more test positive, Himachal’s Covid-19 tally crosses 300 in 71 days||Himachal’s Covid-19 tally has crossed 300 in 71 days, on Saturday, after 15 more were tested positive for the virus in state.“The state’s total tally has reached 311 with six new cases were reported from Hamirpur district, four each from Kangra and Una and one from Solan. There are now 196 active cases in the state, as 20 people recovered today,” said special secretary (health) Nipun Jindal.Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said the four patients were under institutional quarantine.“Three of them had returned from Delhi and one from Gurgaon. One person, who had returned from Thane on the Shramik Special Train, tested positive late on Friday. With this, Kangra now has 79 cases,” he said.Late evening, six cases were reported from Hamirpur. All of them returned from other states. Four were under institutional quarantine and two under home quarantine, Hamirpur deputy commissioner Harikesh Meena said.Four cases were reported from Una district, whose details are awaited.DOUBLING RATE INCREASESThe doubling rate of Covid-19 cases in Himachal is faster than the national average of 13 days.It took the state 71 days to breach the 300 mark after the state reported its first case on March 20.The tally touched 100 in exactly two months (61 days) on May 20. However, the count reached 200 in just four days on May 24. It took another six days (Total 71 days) for the tally to reach 300. The recovery rate in the state is around 30%.RETURNEES BRING IN THE SECOND WAVEHimachal has witnessed a second wave of cases since May 4 with 267 people testing positive for the virus. As many as 122 cases have been reported over the week.So far, 311 cases have been reported in the state, including five fatalities. Three men and two women are among the dead.Around 90% of the cases reported since May 4 are those who returned to Himachal from other states.Hamirpur is the worst-hit district with 107 cases followed by Kangra with 79 cases. A total of 37 cases have been reported in Una, 24 in Solan, 20 in Chamba, 18 in Bilaspur, 12 in Mandi, nine in Shimla, four in Sirmaur, and one in Kullu.20 RECOVER IN SINGLE DAYMeanwhile, there was also some good news for the state today as a total of 20 patients recovered today. Till date, 106 patients have recovered.Among the cured patients, 15 were from Hamirpur, four from Kangra and one from Mandi districts, Jindal said. This is the highest number of recoveries in the state on a single day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-s-covid-19-tally-touches-300-as-five-test-positive/story-9WFdqF6BMEZBtXNAxbD22K.html
30-05-2020||Jaipur||Monuments run by Rajasthan government to be open from June 1: Official||Monuments coming under the archaeology and museum department of Rajasthan will reopen for tourists across the state from June 1 in areas that do not fall under containment zones and curfew areas, an official said on Saturday. The monuments, except for the ones falling in containment zones and curfew areas, will be opened four days a week (Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday and Sunday) for the first two weeks with social distancing protocols to be properly followed, Director of the archaeology and museum department, Prakash Chandra Sharma, said. The monuments will be open from 9 am to 2 pm in the first week and from 9 am to 1 pm and 3 pm to 5 pm in the second week. From the third week onwards, the monuments will be open to tourists daily. Entry to 32 monuments out of the total 342 monuments under the department’s functioning is ticketed but it will be free in the first and second week while 50 per cent of the ticket amount will be charged from the third week onwards, he added. “The decision was taken to restart tourism activities in the state. Social distancing, sanitisation and other arrangements in view of the coronavirus pandemic will be ensured,” Sharma said. Apart from reopening the monuments, it was also decided to restart performances by folk artists inside the monuments and all the officials have been issued instructions for making the arrangements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/monuments-run-by-rajasthan-government-to-be-open-from-june-1-official/story-f5eZYV9cOHJtMJCM75vW1M.html
30-05-2020||Bangalore||Bengaluru corporator tests positive for Covid-19||A city corporator in Bengaluru was sent into quarantine on Saturday after he tested positive for the coronavirus infection, officials said. “Yes, I have tested positive,” Padarayanapura municipal ward corporator Imran Pasha told some news channels. The JDS corporator said he would quarantine himself as per the regulations. The entire area where Pasha lives was cordoned off. Health workers reached there in an ambulance and gave him a personal protection gear to wear and he was taken to a designated hospital. Reacting to the development, Karnataka Revenue Minister R Ashoka claimed Pasha hardly paid heed to the COVID-19 regulations. “He rushes to all those places wherever there are positive cases...,” Ashoka told reporters. Padarayanapura was declared as a containment zone earlier with a few cases coming to the fore. It was in this area where some policemen and health workers were attacked when they went to quarantine a few primary and secondary contacts of a COVID-19 patient about a month ago. Following the incident, about 125 people were arrested, and later quarantined after a few of them tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/bengaluru-corporator-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-NqRWdR94ntB2jo8BJMNi5O.html
30-05-2020||Patna||ED attaches over Rs 14 cr assets in Bihar’s Srijan scam case||The Enforcement Directorate on Saturday said it has attached assets amounting to Rs 14.32 crore of Bihar-based NGO Srijan Mahila Vikas Sahyog Samiti as part of a money laundering probe against it.The NGO is under the probe scanner of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the ED after a Rs 1,000 crore scam by alleged embezzlement of government funds was reported in 2017.“The attached assets include 20 flats at Noida, Ghaziabad, Pune, Ranchi, Bhagalpur and Patna, 19 shops at Noida, Ghaziabad and Bhagalpur, 33 plots or houses in Bihar, a Volkswagen car and bank balance to the tune of Rs 4.84 crore,” the agency said in a statement.A provisional order for attachment of the properties, worth Rs 14.32 crore, was issued by the ED against Srijan Mahila Vikas Sahyog Samiti Limited (SMVSSL) under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act.The agency slapped money laundering charges in the case on the basis of a CBI FIR. The CBI has also filed multiple charge sheets in the case.The ED said its investigation found that “from 2003-04 funds to the tune of Rs 557 crore were siphoned off from government accounts after being illegally transferred to the bank accounts of the NGO (Srijan)”.  “Late Manorma Devi was the secretary of the society (NGO) since inception till her death on February 13, 2017.“She was the main accused, who along with others involved in misappropriating the government funds in collusion with government and bank officials,” the ED alleged.The money transferred into the bank accounts of SMVSSL was further transferred through RTGS, cash and cheques to various entities, it said.“These illegally transferred funds were also utilised to acquire properties in the name of family members of Manorma Devi, government officials and others,” the agency said.  The CBI had also alleged that the ‘Samiti’ (NGO), which was working to impart training to women, had pilfered government funds in connivance with bank officials and state government officials between 2003 and 2014.An initial probe by local police had revealed that the ‘Samiti’, based at Sabour in Bhagalpur district of Bihar, allegedly procured cheque books from banks and forged signature of the district magistrate to transfer government funds to its account.The probe had also pointed to the involvement of nationalised banks and government officials in the fraudulent withdrawal of funds in three districts of Bhagalpur, Banka and Saharsa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/ed-attaches-over-rs-14-cr-assets-in-bihar-s-srijan-scam-case/story-2ia9axcJ3K42ZEATf5KiII.html
30-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chitkara University hosts online rendezvous with Chetan Bhagat||Chitkara University on Saturday hosted a talk with author and columnist Chetan Bhagat, the focus of the online interface was ‘Keeping your spirits high: coming out as a winner in challenging times”.A number of participants from Arunachal Pradesh, Delhi, Chandigarh, and Punjab joined the session. On how to keep spirits up during the pandemic, Bhagat said, “Don’t count the days, and stop wondering when things will reopen or what will happen next. Maintain balance and be strong minded, indulge in creative writing and thinking. Do something different as things will be back to normal in some time.”LESSONS FROM SARSHe recalled that he was an investment banker in Hong Kong in 2003 when SARS hit the country and left the citizenry in a state of despair and hopelessness: “With time the phase passed and those who nurtured a positive outlook wrote success stories post SARS,” he said.Replying to pro-chancellor Madhu Chitkara’s query on the impact of the pandemic on the youth, he said students had been spending more time on screen, on their mobiles, televisions and laptops. He advised them to devote more time to creative thinking and do a variety of things. He suggested limiting oneself to two hours of screen time a day apart from online education.HYBRID SYSTEM OF EDUCATIONTo Chitkara International School principal Niyati Chitkara’s question on what will be the future of education in the post-corona era, Bhagat said he could foresee a hybrid system of education gaining currency with increased focus on online modules along with campus education.Bhagat also spoke about the importance of acquiring marketing skills in addition to scoring high grades, the future of VR (virtual reality) and other key issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chitkara-university-hosts-online-rendezvous-with-chetan-bhagat/story-rl1ZZ4KdnNIbFuSjUMjMkK.html
30-05-2020||Chandigarh||Police station declared ‘out of bounds’ after cop tests positive for Covid-19 in J&K’s Kathua||A police station in Kathua district of Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) was declared ‘out of bounds’ on Saturday after a policeman posted there tested positive for the coronavirus, officials said.Kathua senior superintendent of police Shailendra Mishra said the police station was closed for visitors and would remain ‘out of bounds’ till the time all personnel deployed there test negative for the virus. “A few days ago, a cop from IR battalion was tested positive and today another policeman from Kathua police station was tested positive. Their contact history is being traced,” he said adding that the women police station, Kathua, will take complaints till then.The policeman, who tested positive, is asymptomatic, the officer added.Kathua district development commissioner OP Bhagat said with the addition of the latest case, the total number of coronavirus patients in the district had risen to 66.Sixty-two of the patients were travellers, who had returned from outside the Union Territory, he said, adding that 19 of the patients had recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/police-station-declared-out-of-bounds-after-cop-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-j-k-s-kathua/story-7faxoDAwB8L4jSQFd5tUcK.html
30-05-2020||Chandigarh||BFUHS to hold MBBS, MD, MS examinations from June 29, date sheet announced||After a delay of almost two months due to the coronavirus outbreak, Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) will hold examinations for MD, MS and MBBS courses from June 29. The examinations for postgraduate courses were scheduled to start from the first week of May, but following the lockdown imposed to tackle Covid-19, the examinations were delayed. BFUHS controller of examination Dr SP Singh said “Acting on the advisory of Medical Council of India (MCI), the university has unanimously decided to hold the MD/MS examinations starting from June 29.”“The supplementary exams for MBBS final professional part 1, second professional and first professional shall also begin from June 29 onwards,” he added.BFUHS has announced the date sheet for MD/MS and postgraduate diploma courses.Paper 1 will be held on June 29, paper-2 on July 1, paper-3 on July 3 and paper-4 on July 6. The medical university will conduct MBBS course examinations from June 30 to July 17. The university has announced date sheet for MBBS second professional, final professional part-1 and first professional. The medical varsity has told all principals to make necessary arrangements to conduct theory exams at their examination centres as per the guidelines issued by the MCI and Punjab government.BFUHS has also extended the last date of submission of thesis and synopsis for all courses to June 30 without late fee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bfuhs-to-hold-mbbs-md-ms-examinations-from-june-29-date-sheet-announced/story-R0xCO4EvBItQvZTVTE7XRK.html
30-05-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka govt bans spitting tobacco products at public places||The Karnataka government has banned spitting of tobacco products and paan at public places, in order to prevent the spread of coronavirus in the state.According to an order issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare on Friday, chewing and spitting tobacco or tobacco made products will be an offence under sections 188, 268, 269 and 270 of the IPC, relating to disobedience, public nuisance, negligent act causing the spread of dangerous diseases.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIt will attract a jail term, it said.The order also said chewing and spitting tobacco products was an offence under section 4(2)A of the Karnataka Epidemic Ordinance-2020.The state government pointed out that coronavirus was spreading rapidly in the country and spitting tobacco products in public places can cause the disease to spread further.The order cited governments in Bihar and Jharkhand making spitting of tobacco at public places an offence under the Epidemic Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-govt-bans-spitting-tobacco-products-at-public-places/story-dU8xaOWWvVs1k255CL35nN.html
30-05-2020||Chandigarh||Cong leader Sudhir Sharma accuses Centre of hiding the extent of Covid-19 spread||All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretary and former Himachal minister Sudhir Sharma on Saturday accused the Centre of misleading the public about the extent of Covid-19 spread.Sharma alleged that the Centre has been continuously denying that community spread had begun:“The number of cases indicates the contrary. The government is peddling false hope to the public, ” Sharma said.“With around 1, 74,000 cases and around 4,900 deaths in the country, it is inconceivable that there is no community spread,” he said, adding that it was better to plan for the worst and hope for the best.The Congress leader asked if the Union government had a blueprint ready for tackling Covid-19 once the lockdown ends.He said as per experts, both from India and abroad, the number of cases were rapidly increasing and could be expected to peak in July, which means that the curve was likely to extend till September.“And there is the possibility of a second wave in the winter,” he said.“As per these experts, at some point in early July (if not earlier) our health infrastructure will completely breakdown, which in simple terms mean hospitals in many places and cities will run out of beds to treat Covid-19 patients,” Sharma said.Sharma said the four lockdowns, which lasted 69 days, failed to combat the onslaught of the deadly virus.He warned that no vaccines will be available till early next year:“If we are not prepared, we may lose this battle against the virus,” he said.EXTEND MGNREGA TO HARVESTING He demanded that MGNREGA be extended harvesting and other agricultural activities.This will serve dual purpose—those who are out of jobs will get work and the farmers who are struggling to find labour for harvesting will get help.“The Union government should work on a national program that provides ration to every citizen with or without a ration card, for at least six months, which is easily achievable given our ample stock of food grains,” Sharma said. The Centre should prioritise activities that will allow the economy to recover. Allow freedom of movement for work including public transport but ban mass religious, social and cultural gatherings for the next few months, he said.“We know that the virus spreads with or without a lockdown. But we cannot fight the Covid-19 virus on an empty stomach,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cong-leader-sudhir-sharma-accuses-centre-of-hiding-the-extent-of-covid-19-spread/story-RwFj9kDK9EPVBzXOpwwVFL.html
30-05-2020||Chandigarh||Bus services to resume with 60% occupancy in Himachal from June 1||The Himachal Pradesh government will restart public bus service with 60% occupancy from June 1.The HP transport department road safety cell spokesperson said people, especially senior citizens, pregnant women, children below 10 years of age and people suffering from serious diseases, should travel in buses only in case of an emergency.Unnecessary travel should be avoided and people travelling in buses must maintain physical distance. They should also cooperate with the driver and conductor in maintaining 60% occupancy, said the spokesperson.He said passengers will have to carry their own hand sanitisers and drinking water. Passengers are advised to clean their hands with sanitisers frequently while travelling.Face masks and the Aarogya Setu app in smart phones will be compulsory for passengers.Buses will only stop at pre-determined stations and passengers will not be picked up or dropped in red zone areas, he added||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bus-services-to-resume-with-60-occupancy-in-himachal-from-june-1/story-X9yhWKWJIZLO7vYJAJHmbO.html
30-05-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal seeks central university status for agricultural university||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur has urged the Union government to convert Chaudhary Sarwan Kuman Himachal Pradesh Krishi Vishvavidyalaya (CSKHPKV), Palampur, into a central agriculture university so that the whole north-western Himalayan region could benefit. In a letter to the Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, the chief minister pointed out that a central agriculture university had been established in Imphal, Manipur, in 1993 with constituent colleges in six states of the north-eastern Himalayan region. He added that in 2014, the Union government planned to open one more central agriculture university at Pusa, Bihar.The CM said the north-western Himalayan region of the country with a population of 3.1 crore and area of 3,31,953 square kilometres comprising the Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh and the states of Himachal Pradesh and Uttrakhand should have a central agricultural university. HP BRIMMING WITH BIODIVERSITY: THAKUR He said the region was rich in biodiversity and natural resources such as minerals, water and forests was suited for cultivation of different crops.Thakur said Himachal Pradesh was a key state in the region and major river basins such as Sutlej, Ravi, Beas, Chenab and Yamuna fall in the state. He said that the state offered tremendous potential in agriculture and allied sectors, and the existence of an institute of higher learning and research in the form of a central agriculture university will go a long way in bringing much needed prosperity to the people living in the north-western Himalayan region.WELL-CONNECTED VARSITY The CM said CSKHPKV was centrally located and well connected by air, road and rail. “The university has adequate existing infrastructure and a sprawling campus covering around 615 hectares with constituent colleges of agriculture, veterinary and animal sciences, community science and basic sciences, including a network of 12 regional research stations, sub- stations and eight Krishi Vistar Kendras on 233 hectares of land in different agro-climatic zones of the state.Thakur said if the Union government accepts the request of the state government it will be mutually beneficial as with minimum resources and investment, the Central Agriculture University could become a strong farm university and an international leader. He said the Union government will get the existing infrastructure and human resources and the state will benefit from having a central agriculture university.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-seeks-central-university-status-for-agricultural-university/story-D3cNAn9EmyzIis5mynKKFK.html
30-05-2020||Patna||Woman, six-month-old son killed in blast at house in Bihar’s Munger||A woman and her six-month-old son were killed in a massive blast that rocked a house in Bihar’s Munger district in the early hours of Saturday, police said. The blast happened in one Dashrath Sah’s house near Bariyarpur Bazaar Pul around 3 am, said Superintendent of Police Lipi Singh. Sah’s daughter Roma Kumari (30) and her son were killed in the blast, she said. The intensity of the blast was so massive that six adjacent houses also got damaged, police said. However, no injuries were reported in the incident, Singh said. It is difficult to say anything about the cause of the blast as investigation is on, she said, adding that dog squad and forensics team have been called for collecting the samples from the spot. Following the incident, angry villagers blocked the Bhagalpur-Munger Road demanding compensation for the victim’s family. District officials assured them to look into their demands, following which the blockade was lifted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/woman-six-month-old-son-killed-in-blast-at-house-in-bihar-s-munger/story-HzLwBf4D2IwvYPmfNbdY7L.html
30-05-2020||Chandigarh||Sanjay Kundu is Himachal DGP||The state government has appointed 1989-batch Indian Police Service (IPS) officer Sanjay Kundu for the post of Himachal’s director general of police (DGP).Kundu, who is currently principal secretary to chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, will succeed Sita Ram Mardi who will superannuate on May 31.Kundu has worked in different leadership roles with the state and central government as well as the United Nations.At present, Kundu also holds the charge of principal secretary (excise, taxation and vigilance) and principal resident commissioner of HP at New Delhi.He has served as a joint secretary in the Union water resources ministry where his responsibilities included policy, planning, river development and conflict management.He has held the additional charge of Brahmaputra Board chairperson, NPCC (PSU) chairperson and managing director, national water development agency (inter-linking of rivers) director general and national water mission (water and climate change) mission director.ILLUSTRIOUS CAREERAmong his key achievements were settling the age-old Cauvery Dispute and the‘Sardar Sarovar Dam Issue.As a police commissioner within the UN system, Kundu carried out works pertaining to national capacity building, conflict mitigation, human rights, protection of civilians and humanitarian support.In the state, he has served as additional director general of police (ADGP, law and order), inspector general of police (IGP, law and order), senior superintendent of police (SSP) in Bhiwani, Bilaspur, Mandi, Chamba and Kangra. Kundu also served in the BSF as inspector general (operations, air wing, administration, training and intelligence) and deputy inspector general (DIG) and sector commander in Bikaner, North Tripura and Srinagar (J&K).A HARVARD GRADUATEA postgraduate in public policy from the University of Minnesota, where he was also a Fulbright Humphrey Fellow, Kundu graduated from the National Defense College and Harvard University, where he completed a programme on ‘international security and strategy’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sanjay-kundu-to-be-new-himachal-dgp/story-LTo1musjCi3vaKMVoif1WN.html
30-05-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC refuses to direct BMC for over-the-counter sale of liquor in Mumbai||Bombay High Court on Friday refused to direct the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to allow over-the-counter sale of liquor in Mumbai but asked the civic chief to look into the grievances of alcohol shop owners.Maharashtra Wine Merchants Association has moved the high court seeking a direction to the civic body to permit retail liquor sale from shops in the city. It has challenged the BMC commissioner’s May 22 notification, prohibiting the over-the-counter sale of liquor in the city and allowing home delivery through online sale.It was argued on behalf of the association that in other Covid-19 hotspots like cities of Pune and Nashik, where identical situation existed as regards the coronavirus pandemic, normal retail sale of liquor was being permitted and there was no reason why the same norms should not be applied in Mumbai.The association’s counsel submitted that the system of an online sale or home delivery was fraught with difficulties and apart from being unsafe can have an adverse social impact, and urged the court to strike down the notification and issue necessary directions to the BMC to allow over-the-counter sale of liquor in Mumbai.The bench of justice Nitin Jamdar and justice NR Borkar, however, refused to interfere with the civic chief’s decision.The bench said the order does not permit over the counter sale of liquor and permits e-commerce platform to be utilised for delivery.“This decision is in the nature of the policy. Such a decision entails evaluation of various competing factors,” said the bench.It, however, placed the plea for over-the-counter sale before the municipal commissioner and directed the civic chief to take an appropriate decision on it. “The situation may differ from place to place. The relevant factors can also undergo a change by passage of time,” the bench said in this regard.The bench granted four weeks to the state government to reply to the association’s prayer for a refund of licence fee—proportionate to the loss caused due to the closure of liquor shops due to the nationwide lockdown in the wake of coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-refuses-to-direct-bmc-for-over-the-counter-sale-of-liquor-in-mumbai/story-ThHys5EJlkZlhxWiHTPfWN.html
30-05-2020||Delhi||Khaki tujhe salam: This policeman saves a portion of his salary to feed birds every day||Someone sent this picture of ASI Ratan Singh feeding pigeons to Gunjan Anant, SHO Amar Colony. These feathered little fellows gather on the footpath to enjoy their meal served by Singh early morning. “Ever since the lockdown started, people could not feed birds. So Singh took charge. He saves a portion of his salary and uses it to feed birds while patrolling around the city. I feel so proud of him,” says the SHO. ASI Ratan Singh says, it is his ‘dharma’ to give back. “It’s everyone else’s dharma too, but it’s sad that people don’t understand this,” he says.Ratan is seen feeding the pigeons everyday in Delhi’s East of Kailash and Amar Colony. Locals used to feed the birds bajara and arrange water for them. But ever since the lockdown started, they were forced to stop feeding the birds. That’s when ASI Ratan Singh noticed that the birds were hungry and he stared feed them while patrolling around the city enforcing the lockdown.Singh had no idea that someone had clicked his photo and shared with the SHO. The 59-year-old who will be retiring next year feels really humbled for all the blessings coming his way.With utmost humility and simplicity, he says, “Yeh koi badi baat nahin hai jo main karta hoon. Yeh bhi jeev hain. Humne toh bachpan se yahi sanskar diye hain maa ne. Ghareeb aadmi hoon, bade kaam toh kar nahi sakta. Jab chhote chhote kaam karenge, toh hi uddhar hoga. (The work that I am doing is no big deal. These (pigeons) are also living beings. These are the values that my mother gave me in my childhood. I am a poor man, I can’t do big deeds, I can only do small deeds for redemption,” says Singh who belongs to Jewar in Uttar Pradesh.Singh had joined the police force in 1986 and ever since has been feeding stray animals, saving a portion of his salary for them.“There is a pot filled to the brim with water for birds and other stray animals in front of my gate. These creatures can’t communicate with us, we don’t understand their language, but that doesn’t mean that we turn our faces away from their plight. In mein Parmatma ki atma hai, aur inki seva hi humara dharm hai (their service in our religion, god resides in them),” he says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/khaki-tujhe-salam-this-policeman-saves-a-portion-of-his-salary-to-feed-birds-every-day/story-l2tS2oi9oEPOzTCo2aEp9N.html
30-05-2020||Jaipur||Night curfew to continue in Rajasthan after May 31: CM Ashok Gehlot||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday directed officials to continue curfew during the night across the state even after May 31, when the fourth phase of the ongoing lockdown is scheduled to end, to minimise the risk of coronavirus infections. Gehlot said that the categorisation of the containment area should be done according to the number of active cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) to ensure that only areas with higher infections are under curfew.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIn a review meeting, Gehlot said that health protocols should be strictly followed and appealed people to keep washing their hands frequently, wear masks and follow the rules of social distance.The CM said the administration should monitor whether the health protocols are being followed through cameras and other means. He instructed that there should be no laxity in the provisions of penalty.Gehlot said that many experts, including that of the World Health Organization, have warned that the second round of coronavirus infections in July-August may create a larger crisis. A strong health infrastructure should be prepared from district hospitals to sub-centres so that the people from the village do not have come to the city for the treatment of minor diseases, the chief minister said.Gehlot said private hospitals should adopt a humanitarian approach and provide free treatment to Covid-19 patients and fulfil their moral responsibility. He directed that as per the Supreme Court’s sentiments, an advisory should be issued for free treatment of the coronavirus disease in private hospitals, which should have provision for action against any hospital that violates it.In view of the changing circumstances, the unnecessary expenses should be analysed, so that the money saved could be used for necessary and large public utility works. He directed to take suggestion from retired official having knowledge of finance. He said that the work of providing food to the needy in the state has gone smoothly so far and it should be ensured that no person goes hungry.Rohit Kumar Singh, the additional chief secretary of the health department, said that Rajasthan’s situation is better than other states—the number of active cases is stable and recovery rate has increased in the last six days. Similarly, the number of Covid-19 cases, including that among migrant workers and in rural areas has decreased in the last three days, he said.Abhay Kumar, principal secretary (information technology) said the ‘Raj Kaushal Rajasthan Employment Exchange’ will be launched from Monday in the state to enable workers to get employment easily and to ensure availability of labour for industries.Kumar said Gehlot will hold discussions with public representatives from the gram panchayat level through video conference on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/night-curfew-to-continue-in-rajasthan-after-may-31-cm-ashok-gehlot/story-BEBsOYZMAdnzJlSTPg7eSI.html
30-05-2020||Education||West Bengal varsities will take call on semester exams after lockdown ends: Partha Chatterjee||West Bengal Education Minister Partha Chatterjee on Friday said universities will take the decision on ways of conducting semester exams after the end of the lockdown, and the government will not interfere in their autonomy.Chatterjee told reporters he was informed by vice chancellors of several universities that they are already working out the modalities to conduct the final semester exams in consultation with faculty members.“The universities will decide on their own about the day of opening of affiliated colleges, about the ways of conducting final semester exams,” he said.The minister said higher education institutions have been asked to display a humane approach with regard to attendance and internal assessment factors in view of the COVID-19 scenario.“The vice chancellors are meeting today to discuss about the semester issue and academic calendar. They will deliberate among themselves and inform the higher education department about their recommendations later on,” he said.VCs of different state universities were present at the meeting, West Bengal Vice-Chancellors Council general secretary Subiresh Bhattacharya said.Chatterjee added that universities suffered damages worth Rs 40 crore due to cyclone ‘Amphan’.He said the state government will actively encourage planting of trees in varsities where green cover was reduced in the fierce storm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/west-bengal-varsities-will-take-call-on-semester-exams-after-lockdown-ends-partha-chatterjee/story-VY645vyTv6K6p8GXZA4gjJ.html
30-05-2020||Gurugram||Heavy traffic movement at Delhi-Gurugram border; Police check IDs of commuters||As the Haryana government has sealed borders with the national capital due to increase in the number of Covid-19 cases, heavy traffic movement was seen at Delhi-Gurugram border on Saturday morning.Police personnel were seen checking passes and IDs of people commuting through the route. Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij had on Thursday said the state’s border with Delhi “will remain sealed for now” as Covid-19 cases were rising in the neighbouring cities of Gurugram and Faridabad.“Delhi’s cases and the adjoining areas with Delhi are a big concern for us. The cases are increasing in Gurugram and Faridabad, as they share their border with Delhi. The border will remain sealed for now,” the minister had said.The fourth phase of the Covid-19 lockdown is slated to end on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/heavy-traffic-movement-at-delhi-gurugram-border-police-check-ids-of-commuters/story-b1FJiHnUjAqgImaShZx1hP.html
30-05-2020||Delhi||2 neighbours beat salesman to death in Delhi’s Sagarpur||Two neighbours, including a minor, allegedly bludgeoned a 24-year-old man to death with bricks in West Delhi’s Sagarpur on Wednesday, days days after he had an argument with them. Both the suspects have been arrested. Krishna Yadav, who worked as a salesman in Karol Bagh, lived with his family. The problem began on Sunday when Yadav stopped Karan, 20, and a 16-year-old boy, from creating ruckus outside his house. On Wednesday, the duo “began pelting stones at his home. When Yadav stepped out, they pelted stones at him ,” said the officer. Yadav was taken to the hospital where he was declared dead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/2-neighbours-beat-salesman-to-death-in-delhi-s-sagarpur/story-9TydqigYbR1SaqIwfa2l9J.html
30-05-2020||Delhi||Rain, thunder likely to hit parts of Delhi||Light rain and thundershowers several parts of Delhi and northwest India on Friday evening brought respite from the heatwave, with the maximum temperature in the Capital dropping to 37 degree C, 3 degrees below normal. “We can expect dust storm or thunderstorm in Delhi NCR under the influence of easterly winds in the lower levels and a WD affecting NW India,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, Delhi. Under the influence of a western disturbance and an east-west trough (low pressure area) in lower tropospheric levels, scattered to fairly widespread rain and thunderstorm accompanied with lightning, hail and squall at several places will continue over Western Himalayan Region and adjoining plains during next 3 days, said India Meteorological Department (IMD). The depression is likely to bring widespread and heavy rainfall to western states including Maharashtra, Gujarat, Kerala and Karnataka. It may intensify into a cyclone but climate models are not giving conclusive forecasts yet, IMD scientists said. “It will definitely bring widespread rains which is why monsoon onset is likely to take place. But the system is still being monitored closely,” said Sunita Devi, in charge of cyclones at IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/rain-thunder-likely-to-hit-parts-of-delhi/story-XQSlKHnvHMprNUKMvCoPzM.html
30-05-2020||Jaipur||Gehlot issues instructions for holding board exams for classes 10 and 12||The Rajasthan government has decided to conduct board examinations for various subjects of classes 10 and 12, postponed due to Covid-19 pandemic. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has instructed the state Education Department to make proper arrangements for conducting exams. Gehlot took the decision in a high-level meeting with officials of the Education Department on Friday. After the decision, the dates of the remaining examinations for various subjects of classes 10 and 12 will be notified by the Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education, Ajmer. The chief minister asked officials to ensure proper implementation of the health protocol released to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic during these examinations. He said the use of masks and sanitizers by candidates and teachers should be ensured at all examination centers. Also, there should be strict adherence to the rules of social distancing at the examination centres and during the examination, he said. Suggesting an increase in the number of examination centres as per the requirement, Gehlot said that school buildings in which quarantine facilities are being operated, should be sanitized according to the protocol before the examination.  The meeting was attended by Minister of State for Education Govind Singh Dotasara, Chief Secretary D B Gupta, Additional Chief Secretary (Finance) Niranjan Arya, and School Education Secretary Manju Rajpal besides other officials. PTI AG RAX RAX||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/gehlot-issues-instructions-for-holding-board-exams-for-classes-10-and-12/story-jfM3kF0gx4eQBiFgjBQCxN.html
30-05-2020||Gurugram||Covid-19 cases in Gurugram cross 500-mark||The city’s Covid-19 cases breached the 500-mark after it recorded a spike of 115 fresh cases on Friday. This is the biggest number of coronavirus cases to have been recorded in a single day. Gurugram’s Covid-19 count stands at 520, as per the state health bulletin. It is the highest in Haryana so far.Of the total cases, there are 293 active patients, while 224 have been discharged after the recovery from the highly contagious disease. On Friday, 31 patients were discharged. The death toll stands at 3, as per the health bulletin.The district health team, however, did not share the details of the fresh cases and the areas from where they have been reported.The city saw a massive surge in Covid-19 cases in May as compared to April. On May 1, the total number of coronavirus positive patients was 71. In a month’s time, 449 new cases have been reported. On Thursday, the city recorded the second-highest spike of 68 cases. The positive cases were reported from more than 30 areas.A member of the rapid response team said, “The 115 cases are from different parts of the Gurugram block. It includes areas such as DLF-4, Rajeev Nagar, Surat Nagar, Nathupur, Sector 10A, Sector 18 and Hari Nagar, Gandhi Nagar, among others.” He said that the reported cases are all fresh ones and not holdover cases, refuting to all the rumours that the sudden spurt in the number is due to addition of cases that have been in the backlog.Official data till May 28 showed that some of the worst-affected areas are Dundahera (19 cases), Rajendra Park (12), Khandsa (32), Sector 10A (19), Rajeev Nagar (10), Ravi Nagar (10), Jyoti Park (9), Chakkarpur (7), Gandhi Nagar (6) among others. All of these areas are residential in nature with dense population. A few of the condominiums in the city have been equally affected where patients have been kept under home isolation.With the surge in the number of Covid-19 cases, the district administration has started paid isolation facility for asymptomatic cases. At least 12 hotels have been roped in for the purpose.The city also reported the third Covid-19 death in Medeor Hospital on Thursday. “A 65-year-old woman with co-morbidity issues succumbed to coronavirus,” said the rapid response member. Earlier this week, two deaths have been reported in PGIMS, Rohtak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/covid-19-cases-in-gurugram-cross-500-mark/story-bl5DmeJACDzSFOPIwS3MNO.html
30-05-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: The evening portrait of a ‘labour’||With his dhoti, turban, and weather-beaten slip-on shoes, he looks like a farmer walking through his village field, far away in the heart of Indian countryside.But Kashi Ram is walking down the road that goes past Nehru Place in south Delhi.Stopping on request for a brief chat, he stands right on the middle of the road. There is no danger of being hit by a speeding car. Despite an ease in the coronavirus-triggered lockdown, the stretch is free of traffic, at least at this hour, in this hot muggy evening.“I have started to work again,” says Mr Ram. The man has a slim physique; his limbs are sturdy, his skin is tight. He might be in his 50s, but there is no way of confirming it; he has no idea of his age. “I have no I-card,” he says, looking amused—at least that’s the hint one gets from eyes that seem to be smiling. The rest of his face is hidden behind the folds of his turban.“Karuna,” he utters, as if responding to a query. He lifts a finger towards the sky, shaking his head. He is referring to corona, probably to explain his elaborate face wear.Mr Ram calls himself a “labour”. He says he started going to work (after a long gap due to lockdown) five days ago. He is part of a “labour gang” hired by a contractor in the construction of a house that is coming up in Kalkaji.“I’m heading home now,” he says, his voice so low that he could as well be whispering. It’s anyway difficult to understand him. Mr Ram is speaking Hindi very fast and in a dialect (or is it an accent?) that is difficult to comprehend. Resuming his walk as if impatient to reach his destination, he informs he is from a village in Jhansi, UP. He quickly garbles out a series of sentences, explaining that his colleagues left for their villages during the lockdown. He too tried to go back but couldn’t. “Not enough money.”Suddenly, Mr Ram pauses, stands like a statue and allows himself to be photographed. His frayed kurta is very evocative of his life. It is stitched up at various places. “It has gotten old.... it gets torn... I sew it.... it again gets torn, I sew it again.”Gesturing towards the bag he is holding, he says it has his lunch box. “I cook myself.” He finally reveals he lives near the Moolchand Metro station. On being asked if he stays alone or with family, he gives an indirect answer: “I’m trying to return to Jhansi, if only there could be a cheaper way.... things aren’t good.”He leaves it unsaid if things aren’t good in his home town or with him in Delhi.“No zameen (land) for kheti (farming) at home,” he mutters. There is also no water to irrigate, he adds. His eyes are no longer stretched to their extremes, suggesting that maybe he has stopped smiling.Soon afterwards he walks away with a slow pace down the same road, which is still empty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-evening-portrait-of-a-labour/story-p47pYP9bUITmMa865VxFrJ.html
30-05-2020||Delhi||4.5-magnitude earthquake felt in NCR||A magnitude 4.5 earthquake hit Haryana’s Rohtak, over 65 km from Delhi, on Friday evening at 9.08 pm with its epicentre at a depth of 5 km, the National Centre for Seismology (NCS) said. This is the latest in a series of temblors that have hit Delhi and the adjoining areas since April. A mild 2.7 magnitude earthquake hit Delhi for the second time in two days on April 13. The tremor had its epicentre at the depth of 5 km in northeast Delhi’s Sonia Vihar. A 3.5 magnitude earthquake a day earlier had its epicentre at the same location at the depth of 8 km. Another temblor of 3.4 magnitude hit Delhi on May 10.People across Delhi and particularly those living in high rises felt the fresh tremors, NCS said. “We got calls even from people, who live on grounds floors and still felt strong tremors. This [fresh] earthquake [has its epicentre] in ...Rohtak in Haryana. We have recorded five earthquakes in Sonia Vihar since April; three of them were very mild,” said an NCS official.AP Pandey, an NCS seismologist, said the region near Rohtak has been very active due to convergence of some fault lines. “There is the Delhi-Haridwar ridge, Delhi-Sargodha ridge and Mahendergarh-Dehradun fault. It like a junction of these faults. In 2012, we had recorded a 5.1 magnitude earthquake just west of that location. We can expect some aftershocks to follow after the mainshock,” he said.When Delhi recorded the 3.5 magnitude earthquake in April, seismologists said it is not unusual for the epicentre of these relatively small earthquakes to be in Delhi and Haryana. But less noise from traffic made the recording on seismometer very accurate. NCS seismologists said they had a “very good” recording. “The recording was very clear because of no noise. This time the magnitude of the earthquake is also higher. So people must have felt it. It is a lot of energy being released. If one is at home, the experience can be more intense but not so much if they are moving.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/4-5-magnitude-earthquake-felt-in-ncr/story-7fAQcmG2mNdV4ozAT5FUbM.html
30-05-2020||City||Over 300 labourers left homeless as fire destroys shanties in Ludhiana village||It was a close shave for around 50 migrant labourers as a fire broke out in over 50 closely packed shanties in Rawat village on Rahon road on Friday. Though no casualty was reported, over 300 migrant labourers, including women and children, have been rendered homeless. Over a dozen goats have died in the incident, labourers said.Besides, furniture, electronic devices and other valuables, including some cash they had saved for emergencies, were also destroyed in the fire.Though the cause of the fire has not been ascertained, some claimed that the incident took place while a labourer was cooking food in one of the shanties, while a few others said that there was short-circuit due to the electricity cables hanging overhead.As per information, the fire broke out around 9am and due to the strong winds, it spread quickly. Four gas cylinders kept in the shanties are also said to have exploded.Govind Kumar said, “I was working in the farms when I came to know about the incident. I rushed back and saw that everything had been gutted. Everyone around was screaming and crying over their loss. It is already so difficult to find work due to the coronavirus spread, and now we lost the roof over our head too.” Most of the residents here hail from Bihar and have been living in this village for over three decades years. They have now been shifted to the village gurdwara, where food is being provided by police and villagers.RESIDENTS CLAIM DELAY IN FIRE FIGHTING OPSA few labourers claimed that there was a delay in the arrival of the fire brigade, however, the fire fighters claimed they reached the spot 10 minutes after receiving the alert. Ravi Kumar, a fire fighter, said it took over three hours for the fire brigade to control the blaze. Meharban station house officer (SHO) Kulwant Singh Malhi said soon after getting the information, he went to the spot and shifted the labourers to the local gurdwara. “It is suspected that fire broke out while a labourer was cooking food. Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal has been apprised of the whole situation,” said Malhi.TWO OTHER FIRE MISHAPSMeanwhile, a two-year-old girl suffered burns in a fire at a labour quarter in Phase 7 of Focal Point Area. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Bhupinder Singh deputed at Jeevan Nagar police post said, “The fire broke out in the room after a burning candle fell off a shelf when the family was sleeping on Thursday night. The child has been shifted to Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh, and her condition is stable. Other family members are safe and fire was controlled with the help of fire brigade.”Another fire incident was reported from a shawl manufacturing unit in Geeta Colony on Tajpur road on Thursday night. The incident took place around 9.30pm. As the factory was closed at the time, no casualty was reported, however, the owner said, he lost goods worth lakhs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/over-300-labourers-left-homeless-as-fire-destroys-shanties-in-ludhiana-village/story-bwf40HzngP5fgY493whuYN.html
30-05-2020||City||Ludhiana teen’s murder solved with arrest of one||The murder case of a 19-year-old Janakpuri resident, who tested Covid-19 positive after his death, has been solved with the arrest of another teen.The accused, Rajwinder Singh alias Raja, 19, of Manjit Nagar, said on May 13, he had intercepted the victim, Karan Chaudhary, with an intention to rob him. But Karan resisted following which the accused attacked him with a sharp-edged weapon, killing him on the spot. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Gurcharanjit Singh, in-charge at bus stand police post, said that during investigation, they found that Raja had been seen near the crime spot a few minutes before the incident following which, they started zeroing-in on him. On Thursday night, they managed to nab him and also recovered the murder weapon from his possession. The ASI added that as the victim was found positive for the virus posthumously, the accused’s samples were taken for testing right after his arrest. A case of murder had been registered, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-teen-s-murder-solved-with-arrest-of-one/story-FZ9uirxZI3dGbfdXreuyPL.html
30-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC House meet: ₹66 lakh booking amount for community centres to be refunded||The municipal corporation (MC) will be refunding about ₹65.98 lakh to people who booked various community centres in the city between March 22 and May 31, members decided at the first General House meeting held here via video conferencing after two months of curfew and lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Other decisions at the meeting included restarting road works after the monsoon; starting development work in UT villages, purchase of PPE kits, reauction of food booths in Sector 48 and setting up of an animal incinerator plant in Sector 25 West.People who booked community centres, open spaces and parks for events could not organise the events there because of the lockdown and curfew due to the Covid-19 outbreak.There were 493 bookings made and 150 persons have already sent applications demanding refunds from the MC, which manages the centres. The money to be refunded includes ₹55.51 lakh for renting the venue, ₹10.07 lakh as goods and services tax (GST) and ₹40,000 as cleaning charges.Even though the MC had deposited the GST amount with the excise and taxation department, the House decided that the amount will be refunded.As there appeared to be no definite timelines for the pandemic situation to ease the MC decided to formulate provisions in the refund policy for existing or similar future calamities.The House decided to add three more members to the purchase committee set up to buy personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, hand sanitisers and gloves for the containment of Covid-19. An expert from the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research and two nominated members will be added to the committee to decide on the requirement and specifications of the safety equipment.Arun Sood, councillor and city BJP chief, said his party will provide 100ml hand sanitisers, PPE kits and masks to the MC. The House decision came on the submission of an estimate of around ₹2 crore for buying PPE kits.Major road repair and recarpeting work will also be carried out after the monsoon, between September to December, said KK Yadav, MC commissioner.Recarpeting work for which tenders had already been allocated would be sped up and completed before the monsoon, he said, assuring the house that the civic body had adequate funds for the completion of all the road works. Recarpeting work on several roads couldn’t be completed last year because of lack of funds.Among the various developmental works in UT villages approved by the House, an estimated spending of ₹10 crore for paver block and sewerage system in Manimajra got the green signal at the meeting.For the infrastructural improvements in the 13 villages recently added to the MC, civic works, including electricity, paver blocks, sewerage upgrade, water supply, and storm water were approved. The estimates for these works will be submitted with the administration for additional grant-in-aid.The proposal for reducing the reserve price of booths at Food Street, Sector 48, was also submitted before the House. As Sood suggested augmenting the amenities there for improving the response from bidders, the House decided to float tenders in August after providing basic amenities such as public toilets. In case of a poor response, reducing the reserve price would be discussed again.The city’s first animal carcass incineration plant is likely to come up in Sector 25 West even though an earlier proposal was made to set up the unit in Industrial Area, Phase 1. Plans were changed after opposition from local councillor Shakti Parkash Devshali.In the meeting held via videoconferencing for the first time, MC House members decided on the following:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-house-meet-66-lakh-booking-amount-for-community-centres-to-be-refunded/story-5j31lfRH2E0LbDyOn4TbIK.html
30-05-2020||Chandigarh||Showers bring respite in Chandigarh as mercury goes down to 32.1°C||The city recorded a significant dip in the mercury after the rain on Friday. The maximum temperature, which had remained over 40 degrees in the past few days, came down to 32.1°C, over 10 notches below Wednesday’s 42.9°C. As per India Meteorological Department (IMD), 20.2mm rain was recorded in the city and more is expected in the coming days.IMD director Surender Paul said, “Due to the influence of western disturbances with low-lying easterly winds, there was a good amount of rain on Friday, and more is expected on Saturday. In fact, throughout the week, drizzling is expected in the city. Squally conditions with wind speeds going up to 50-60 km/h in the city is also likely.” He added that if it rained during the day, the maximum temperature will continue to remain on the lower side.Meanwhile, the maximum temperature dropped from 37.5°C on Thursday to 32.1°C on Friday, seven degrees below normal. The minimum temperature went down from 27°C on Thursday to 25.2°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/showers-bring-respite-in-chandigarh-as-mercury-goes-down-to-32-1-c/story-dDO5rj6YaNoRQBJoz26bnN.html
30-05-2020||City||Ahmedabad couple tests Covid positive in Panchkula||A software engineer couple in Kalka was the latest to test positive in Panchkula.However, the duo will not be counted in the district tally, which remains 26, as the couple hails from Ahmedabad, Gujarat.Of the 26 cases in Panchkula, 25 have been discharged, leaving one active case. “The man and his wife, aged 30 and 24, respectively, reached Kalka following a death in their family here. They flew from Ahmedabad to Delhi and travelled by road to Kalka. The man was symptomatic when he reached the town and he gave samples on May 28. On Friday, their reports came positive,” a health official said.The couple has been moved to the isolation ward of Panchkula civil hospital in Sector 6. As many as 50 family members have also been quarantined. Some random samples from among them will be collected on Saturday, he said. On Thursday, a Panchkula resident was found positive in Faridabad. A resident of Sector 12, here, she had returned from the US. After testing positive in Faridabad on Thursday, she was admitted to the ESI hospital locally. As she is a Panchkula resident, she is the only active case from the district. With 25 of total 26 patients recovering, Panchkula has a recovery rate of 96.15%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ahmedabad-couple-tests-positive-in-panchkula/story-LmiuoQNktNFsoiRykCmBKN.html
30-05-2020||Chandigarh||Delhi HC ruling on repealed graft law provision may affect CBI case against Hooda||A Delhi high court ruling on a repealed provision of the Prevention of Corruption Act could have a bearing on the corruption charges being heard by a CBI court against former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda.Justice Vibhu Bakhru of the HC in a May 22 judgment ruled that persons convicted of committing the offence of criminal misconduct under Section 13 (1) (d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act would not be absolved of their offences or the liability as the legislative intent of repealing this section was not to exclude the said offence from the scope of Act with retrospective effect.The HC gave its verdict on an appeal by former Jharkhand chief minister Madhu Koda convicted of criminal misconduct under Section 13 in the coal scam who argued that he was liable to be acquitted in view of the enactment of the Prevention of Corruption (Amendment) Act, 2018. Since the misconduct as contemplated under Section 13 (1) (d) is no longer an offence punishable under the Act due to an amendment, the benefit of the same ought to be extended to him, the appellant contended. CASE AGAINST HOODAThe CBI court hearing charges against Hooda and others in the Manesar land release case had stopped short of framing charges after the accused filed discharge applications disputing CBI’s move to bring into play Section 13 (1) (d) of Act which was repealed in 2018 when the law was amended by the Parliament. The court has not been able to frame charges against the accused and commence trial despite the fact that arguments on the charges got concluded in February.HC RULING SIGNIFICANTWhile the Supreme Court is yet to adjudicate the contentious issue of legitimacy of the repealed Section 13, the HC ruling is significant, legal experts say.“This court is unable to accept that the PC (amendment) Act, 2018 seeks to repeal the provisions of Section 13 (1)(d) of the Act as it existed prior to July 26, 2018 ab initio. Mens rea (the intention and knowledge of wrongdoing) is an integral part of the offence under section 13(1)(d). There is no reason to assume that the legislative intent of repealing this section was to exclude the said offence from the scope of PC Act with retrospective effect,” the HC ruled. This court is unable to accept that if it is established beyond reasonable doubt that the appellant had abused his position for securing a pecuniary advantage to Vini Iron and Steel Udyog Limited, the benefit of any beneficial construction of the PC (Amendment) Act, 2018 could be extended to him, the judge said.MANESAR LAND RELEASE CASE2007: About 600 acres acquired for HSIIDC for creating residential and recreational utilities in the Industrial Model Township (IMT), Manesar, was dropped from the acquisition process in 2007 on the orders of Hooda2015: CBI registered a case under Prevention of Corruption Act and IPC against unknown persons2018: CBI files charge-sheet in court, accuses Hooda, three former IAS officers, besides others of dropping acquisition proceedings to help real estate builders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/delhi-hc-ruling-on-repealed-graft-law-provision-may-affect-cbi-case-against-hooda/story-rGWm1EaOmysESEHu4fGEkN.html
30-05-2020||City||Migrants wishing to go back to Bihar, MP, Jharkhand to be put on trains on first-come first-served basis on Saturday: Ludhiana DC||Deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal has said that migrants who want to travel back to the states of Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and Jharkhand should come directly to Guru Nanak Stadium at 10am on Saturday, adding that they will be put on the trains on a first-come first-served basis.Seven trains for Katni (with stoppage at Gwalior and Bina), Barkakhana (with stoppage at Dhanbad, Daltonganj), for Katihar (with stoppage at Purnea, Gonda, Begusarai), for Ara/Bhojpur (with stoppage at Patna, Hardoi, Lucknow and Buxar), for Aurangabad (with stoppage at Gaya, Hardoi, Lucknow, Sultanpur, Bhabua), for Darbhanga (with stoppage at Madhubani, Bareilly, Gorakhpur, Muzaffarpur, Samastipur) and for Khagaria (with stoppage at Saharsa, Etawah, DDU, Chapra, Hajipur) will depart from Ludhiana railway station on Saturday.Agrawal said that since May 5, several trains carrying migrants had left for Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh and other states from Ludhiana. More than eight lakh people had registered for travelling back to their home states and to date, around 3 lakh people had departed, he added.He further added that the Punjab government was paying for the travel, food, water and pick-up service from designated points. Medical screening of all passengers was being done and medical certificates were being issued by the district administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/migrants-wishing-to-go-back-to-bihar-madhya-pradesh-jharkhand-to-be-put-on-seven-trains-on-first-come-first-served-basis-on-saturday-ludhiana-dc/story-gryw83lyuVB0QSHt37GVIO.html
30-05-2020||Chandigarh||91-year-old Chandigarh woman tests negative within 24 hours of testing positive for Covid-19||The 91-year-old woman, who was found Covid-19 positive at a Mohali hospital on Thursday, tested negative within 24 hours of the first result.The elderly was found infected after she was admitted for a medical procedure at Max Hospital in Mohali. She was tested at one of the labs of the hospital. However, the second sample sent to Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh, returned negative results.Officials said the samples were examined carefully as the case was reported positive by a private hospital.UT health secretary Arun Kumar Gupta said the woman will not be tested again, but had been advised strict home isolation.“PGIMER report should be treated as final, and at most, she may be advised to isolate herself at her house and watch out for symptoms. Asymptomatic positive patients are advised the same protocol,” he saidMax Hospital said they will issue a detailed statement on the issue on Saturday. Three family members and two community contacts of the elderly woman, who were quarantined at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, were also found negative.NO NEW CASEMeanwhile, the city reported no new positive case after 12 days. It was on May 17 last when no new case surfaced.With this, the count of Covid-19 cases in the city remains 288, out of which 95 are active and rest 189 are discharged. Four patients have died due to the virus.In the daily review meeting, UT administrator VP Singh Badnore specifically directed that necessary preparations should be made to fight water and air-borne diseases, which are likely to come in monsoon.“The administrator has desired that regular health programmes of vaccination, tuberculosis and dengue should be continued in all dispensaries, and adequate stock of blood should be kept by holding blood donation camps regularly,” the official spokesperson said.Health secretary Arun Kumar Gupta said 116 persons had arrived in Chandigarh from abroad, out of which 29 were sent home after necessary testing. Similarly, 281 domestic flyers had also arrived in Chandigarh and advised to do self-monitoring at home as per the central guidelines.UT adviser Manoj Parida said the administration was ready with 3,000 beds to accommodate patients of both mild and serious categories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/91-year-old-chandigarh-woman-tests-negative-within-24-hours-of-testing-positive/story-f8kcyxzKYtBEmkh4rG6YHI.html
30-05-2020||Chandigarh||Jalandhar MC lost Rs 5 cr revenue in two months of lockdown||The municipal corporation (MC) of Jalandhar has faced a loss of Rs 5 crore in revenue over the past two months that the curfew/lockdown has been in force. The MC’s major revenue sources are taxes on advertisement and property it collects from the public. No revenue has come in over the past two months. Arrears from the public are also an issue that plagues the civic body’s functioning. Mayor Jagdish Raja said for the period from 2013-14 to March 31, 2020, the MC had not received over Rs 50 crore on account of house and property tax from over 50,000 defaulters. In the fiscal year that has just ended, the MC earned Rs 29.3 crore against targeted Rs 40 crore. In 2018-19, MC collected Rs 28.5 crore against targeted Rs 40 crore amount. The MC has sent over 20, 000 notices, so far this fiscal, even warning defaulters of sealing of property. Yet, the public response has been tepid with only Rs 24.5 lakh accruing to it in this financial year to date, said a MC officer. Now, the MC has offered a one-month extension to avail the benefit of 10% scheme on property tax to June 30, in view of the prevailing covid-19 situation. The mayor added, “We have also extended one-time settlement (OTS) policytill June 30, allowing defaulters to clear outstanding for house tax, property tax, water and sewerage charges without any interest on pending amount. This outstanding is around Rs 50 crore and could help MC manage efficiently.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/jalandhar-mc-lost-rs-5-cr-revenue-in-two-months-of-lockdown/story-2cp8rundcikvzNTMk0l7QI.html
30-05-2020||Chandigarh||Labourer stabbed to death for asking biker to slow down||Police have booked six persons for stabbing a 23-year-old labourer, Deputy Singh of Rangarh village, to death after he had asked a motorcyclist to lower his bike’s speed in Attari village, 27km from the district headquarters. The stabbing took place on Wednesday, when the victim along with his friends Gurpreet Singh and Akashdeep Singh of Rangarh village, had gone to Attari market for purchase of clothes. The case was registered on Gurpreet’s complaint, who has told the police. “On Tuesday, a kiosk was installed in Rangarh village for distributing free sweet and cold water in view of the heat wave. Deputy Singh and I were volunteers. During the day, Deputy asked Jagroop Singh of Ranike village, who was speeding on a motorcycle in front of the kiosk, to slow his speed. In fit of rage, Jagroop stopped his bike and had threatened Deputy before spending away.” He added that on Wednesday, Jagroop, his brother Yudhbir, and all accomplices armed with daggers, attacked them at the clothes market. “I was also thrashed. Deputy was critically injured and taken to Amritsar’s Guru Nanak Dev hospital where he succumbed to the injures on Thursday night,” Gurpreet added. Police have identified the accused as Sagar Singh, Yudhbir Singh, Preet and Babb of Ranike village, and Pritpal Singh and Karan Singh of Attari. All of them have been booked under Sections 302 (murder), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapons) and 149 (every member of unlawful assembly) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Gharinda police station, with SHO Amandeep Singh saying that raids were on to nab them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/labourer-stabbed-to-death-for-asking-biker-to-slow-down/story-4phD2Es7e6rO5e3ZO6KM5K.html
30-05-2020||Chandigarh||Locust threat looms large on 9 Haryana districts||Nine Haryana districts vulnerable to locust attack were on Friday put on high alert even as adequate arrangements have already been made to tackle any exigency. Haryana chief secretary Keshni Anand Arora reviewed the preparations regarding monitoring and control of locust in Haryana and directed the agriculture department and district administrations to take all necessary precautions in advance.During the meeting, additional chief secretary, agriculture and farmers’ welfare, Sanjeev Kaushal, said supervision teams have been constituted. And to control the locust attack, he said, adequate stock of pesticides has been made available through HAFED and Haryana Land Reclamation and Development Corporation and if required, farmers can get pesticides from these agencies. He said till now, locust swarms have not entered the state and all necessary precautions are being taken in advance including activation of tractor-mounted sprayers and constituting a response team for close monitoring of locust control activities.Agriculture department officers are also in touch with Jodhpur Central Institute for Locust Warning as well as central government’s control unit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/locust-threat-looms-large-on-9-haryana-districts/story-2yeTq1x5SEcJkz0qwI8jiJ.html
30-05-2020||Delhi||Five luxury hotels in Delhi to be converted into extended Covid-19 hospitals||To ensure sufficient beds to deal with the increasing coronavirus cases, the Delhi government on Friday directed that five luxury hotels in the city be converted into extended Covid hospitals, attached with five hospitals.In an order, Health and Family Welfare Secretary Padmini Singla attached Hotel Crown Plaza in Okhla with the Batra Hospital and Research Centre, the Hotel Surya in New Friends Colony with the Indraprastha Apollo hospital, Hotel Siddharth in Rajendra Place with Dr B.L. Kapur Memorial Hospital, Hotel Jivitesh in Pusa Road with the Sir Ganga Ram City Hospital, and Hotel Sheraton in Saket with Max Smart Super Speciality Hospital.The order said the decision has been taken to augment Covid hospitals facility by 1,000 beds.“The hotels be requisitioned by the District Magistrate and given to attached hospitals for converting them into extended Covid hospital wherein the medical services shall be provided by the attached identified Covid private hospital,” the order said.It said the attached private hospital should admit Covid-19 positive patients in their extended Covid Hospital as per the patient’s medical condition and in case, such patients turn severe at any point of time during their stay in the hotel, “he/she shall be transferred/admitted in the attached private hospital at its scheduled rates.”The attached private hospital is required to provide sufficient manpower (nurses and doctors) as per the norms.“Further, the attached hospital is also required to provide oxygen supply, either in the form of oxygen concentrator or oxygen cylinder, in the extended Covid Hospital in case a patient requires oxygen support.”The order said the attached hospital should provide all consumables like PPE kits, N-95 Mask, gloves, medicines and equipment like pulse-oximeter, thermometer, oxygen concentrator/cylinder, etc.“They shall also make necessary arrangements to provide resuscitation services -- equipment, drugs and medical consumables -- in the extended Covid Hospital in case there is a rapid deterioration in the clinical condition of the patient.“The linked private Hospitals are required to take over full Hotel indicated against their name as requisitioned by the concerned District Magistrate, Delhi Government under the DDMA. The hotel shall provide regular hotel services including rooms housekeeping disinfection and food for the patients etc at the price not greater than Rs 5,000 for five star hotel and Rs 4,000 for four and three star hotel per day per person,” it added. The linked hospital should be paid an amount, not greater than Rs 5,000 per patient per day for their medical services to Covid-19 patients, inclusive of all consumables, services of doctors, nurses, paramedical staff and nursing staff etc as per the norms.“However, investigation charges, if any, shall be charged by the linked hospital as their scheduled rates and for oxygen support, the linked hospital is allowed to charge at the hotel at Rs 2,000 per bed per day basis.”The medical services provided by the attached hospital at their facility will be charged at their respective scheduled rates, the order said.All charges shall be collected by the linked hospital, which make payment to the hotel,it said.Further, the linked hospital may accommodate their doctors and staff at the hotel at their own expense, if required, the order added.(This story has been published from a wire agency feed without modifications to the text. Only the headline has been changed.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/five-luxury-hotels-in-delhi-to-be-converted-into-extended-covid-19-hospitals/story-VMaHb3L4pvfWrqSFk8mGuI.html
30-05-2020||Chandigarh||Moga school guard found murdered on campus||Bacchitar Singh, 75, of Dala village, was found murdered inside the premises of the village school where he was employed as a guard on Thursday night, police said on Friday. Superintendent of police Harinder Pal Singh said the elderly man was attacked with a sharp-edged weapon on his head, when he was on duty on Thursday night. “We are trying to identify the accused. As per preliminary investigation, this seems to be the result of a theft being attempted at the school. We are working on two theories. Either, the guard was killed after he confronted the thieves, or they killed him to guard their identity.”A case has been registered under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC at Mehna police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/moga-school-guard-found-murdered-on-campus/story-SMYNkqUgpyCKR1ESCLkBLL.html
30-05-2020||Chandigarh||Sacked physical training instructors protest in Karnal||Hundreds of sacked government school physical training instructors on Friday took out a protest march here, accusing the government of adopting a double standard by issuing relieving orders on Thursday evening. It is pertinent to mention here that the state government has relieved 1,983 such instructors appointed in 2010 by the then Congress government following the Supreme Court’s verdict upholding the decision of the Punjab and Haryana High Court which had quashed their appointment. Protesting under the banner of Haryana Vidaylya Adhyapak Sangh and wearing black ribbons, the protesting instructors also violated the lockdown guidelines. Addressing the gathering, Anil Saini, district president of the union, demanded from the government immediate withdrawal of the relieving orders and their reinstatement.He claimed that the government did not support their case strongly in the court, which led to the termination of services of 1,983 teachers. They later ended their protest by handing over a memorandum addressed to the Haryana government to the district elementary education officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sacked-physical-training-instructors-protest-in-karnal/story-AvwWUkv20NhuEUm6uN3AeK.html
30-05-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai airport sees operation of 50 flights on Friday||The city’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) saw a total of 50 scheduled flights which include 25 departures and 25 arrivals on Friday. The airport connected to 15 sectors which were operated by six airlines. On Friday, CSMIA catered to a total of 5,442 passengers which include 4,136 passengers at departures and 1,306 at arrivals. The highest passenger load capacity was seen on the Varanasi route departing out of Mumbai. The first flight departed to Kolkata at 6.05am while the first flight arrived at 8:10am from Lucknow which were operated by SpiceJet and IndiGo, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/50-flights-operated-from-mumbai-on-friday/story-p2qFOFdhxwV15pYxSnRCvJ.html
30-05-2020||Chandigarh||Depute central team to investigate ‘seed scam’: Harsimrat to Union agri minister||Union food processing industries minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal, on Friday, urged Union agriculture and farmer welfare minister Narendra Singh Tomar to depute a central team to conduct an “impartial probe” into the alleged seed scam in Punjab.In a written communiqué, Harsimrat has sought action against the accused who sold spurious breeder seeds of paddy to farmers at triple cost. She also urged that the case be forwarded to CBI for a thorough probe.She said a massive seed scam was detected in Punjab which may affecting livelihood of farmers in the neighbouring states and pan-India.She said unscrupulous elements playing with lives of farmers should be stopped immediately and advocated the need to safeguard interests of farmers who are “the backbone of the country’s economy and are working to ensure food security even in times of the coronavirus pandemic”.She said the scam involves sale of spurious PR-128 and PR-129 paddy seed varieties of PAU Ludhiana, which were yet to be approved for commercial sale by private players. She said PAU had supplied a small quantity of seeds to farmers in May 2020 at the rate of Rs 70 per kg but the accused multiplied it illegally in October 2019 and sold truckloads of the spurious seed to unsuspecting farmers at the rate of Rs 200 per kg.The Union minster said that despite registration of an FIR by the state agriculture department and seizure of spurious seeds of both paddy varieties from Brar Seed Store in Ludhiana on May 11, no follow up action has been taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/depute-central-team-to-investigate-seed-scam-harsimrat-to-union-agri-minister/story-7wTSSvlAOc7Jz5natsInwN.html
30-05-2020||City||Humiliated by fruit vendors, security guard hangs himself in Ludhiana||Humiliated by some fruit vendors, an ATM security guard ended his life by hanging himself at the vegetable market on Humbran road on Thursday night.The deceased, aged 38 and resident of Pavittar Nagar, Haibowal, left a suicide note where he mentioned that he was driven to suicide by some fruit vendors at the market.Sub-inspector Kuldeep Singh, additional SHO at Haibowal police station, said the man was found hanging from the girder of a makeshift shop.Passers-by informed the police, who reached the spot and found a suicide note on the body.On the complaint of the deceased’s brother, police lodged an FIR under Section 306 (abetment of suicide) of the Indian Penal Code against the accused, whose names they are keeping concealed till they are arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/humiliated-by-fruit-vendors-security-guard-hang-himself-in-ludhiana/story-9RZvHLDQwZAhXynQOQUpEN.html
30-05-2020||Chandigarh||73 FIRs against travel agents in Haryana for sending people abroad illegally||Days after 76 illegal immigrants from the state were deported from the United States, the Haryana police on Friday cracked the whip on illegal travel agents in several districts.As many as 25 FIRs were registered in Karnal, 16 in Kurukshetra, 15 in Kaithal, 11 in Ambala, four in Jind and one each in Panipat and Yamunanagar districts.Karnal Range Inspector-general of police Bharti Arora said that the FIRs were registered on the complaints of the deported persons. She said that an investigation has been initiated against these travel agents and action will be taken as per the law.The police said that these FIRs were registered under Section 24 of the Immigration Act and Sections 420, 406 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code. However, they said that many agents were already booked for illegally sending people abroad.An illegal immigrant Pushpendra Singh from Ambala district said, “I paid ₹14 lakh to a travel agent to send me to the US in April last year. I along with 18 other Indians, walked for nearly five days in the Panama Forests and spent a month there. On reaching Mexico, we received a country-out pass and later travelled to Tijuana that is near to the American border. Then, I was caught by the American Border Patrol. I had to spend seven days at a police station in California and I was transferred twice to camps where I spent nearly nine months and I was finally transferred to Texas. On May 18, we were deported back to India from Texas.”Kurukshetra superintendent of police Astha Modi said, “We have registered 16 FIRs against different travel agents on the complaints of the illegal immigrants.”According to health minister Anil Vij, of the 76 illegal immigrants, 22 were tested positive for coronavirus and they were admitted at a hospital in Panchkula and 52 have been sent to their native districts where they will be quarantined in government facilities for a period of 14 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/73-firs-against-travel-agents-in-haryana-for-sending-people-abroad-illegally/story-AtvesEYmoFUSNNFo2zqGYP.html
30-05-2020||Chandigarh||PSEB declares Class 5, 8, 10 results on official website||The Punjab School Education Board declared results of Class 5, 8 and 10 on the basis of grading system, on Friday. The results have been uploaded on the PSEB’s official website www.pseb.ac.in and on www.indiaresults.com.Meanwhile, Punjab school education minister Vijay Inder Singla said that the results of registered students have been declared on the basis of continuous comprehensive evaluation (CCE). He said that the PSEB will conduct examinations of the open school, golden chance, improvement and other additional subjects at matriculation level as these students are not covered under the CCE criteria.He added that the datesheet for open school, golden chance, improvement and additional subject examinations will soon be uploaded on the board’s website. He said after reviewing the Covid-19 pandemic situation in Punjab, the datesheet of Class 12 examinations will also be released.Singla said results have been declared as per directions and recommendations of CM Captain Amarinder Singh. He said the education department will ensure safe environment while conducting examinations in view of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pseb-declares-class-5-8-10-results-on-official-website/story-FXSv9tmC7w7U5EKTtLMGyM.html
30-05-2020||City||Lodhi Club party row: Security supervisor slams claims made by executive members, writes to Ludhiana DC||Slamming the claims of seven executive members of Lodhi Club that only an official meeting was held on the premises amid lockdown on Sunday, the club’s security supervisor Harvinder Singh has alleged that a party was organised and liquor was also served. In a complaint sent to deputy commissioner-cum-club president Pradeep Agrawal via post, Singh has stated that a party was organised and members also took away liquor and beer cartons from the club.Alleging that his services were terminated when he tried to record the incident on his mobile phone, Singh, a resident of Gujjarwal village, demanded that the DC should ensure his safety and reinstate him as the security supervisor of the club.When contacted, Singh said, “I was deputed at the club when the seven executive members came on Sunday afternoon. They had lunch that was brought from outside and then they asked the staff to serve liquor. The party continued till 5pm and the members asked two staff members to keep the liquor and beer cartons in the cars of three members through the back gate. As the members had no gate pass or bill for the liquor, I made a video with my mobile.”Singh had alleged that after the members came to know about the video through a staff member, they summoned him inside the hall and abused him. “They snatched my phone and returned it after deleting the videos the next day. When I contacted my security officer, he said my services were no longer required,” Singh added. The club had landed in a controversy after an audio surfaced on the internet wherein two members of the club were discussing about the party.On Wednesday, an internal inquiry was submitted to the DC by club general secretary Nitin Mahajan. “The facts stated by the supervisor in his letter are in complete contradiction to the claims made by the executive members. A few staff members also gave their statement that no liquor was served, but the letter has raised doubts. The members claimed the 109 beer bottles taken out were expired,” he said.Mahajan and two women executive members did not go to the club that day. Despite multiple attempts, DC Agrawal could not be reached for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lodhi-club-party-row-security-supervisor-slams-claims-made-by-executive-members-writes-to-ludhiana-dc/story-KaHAsGsFl7SACvCDwE6gmK.html
30-05-2020||Real||Real estate body NAREDCO to employ 2.5 lakh UP migrant workers in projects across state||Real estate body National Real Estate Development Council (NAREDCO) has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Uttar Pradesh government to provide employment to 2.5 lakh migrant workers who have returned to the state following the coronavirus pandemic. The MoU was signed by NAREDCO’s UP chapter in the presence of chief minister Yogi Adityanath in Lucknow on Friday, news agency PTI reported. “We have signed an MoU with the UP government for providing employment opportunities to 2.5 lakh labourers of UP who have returned from different states because of coronavirus,” NAREDCO-UP President RK Arora told reporters in a video conference. He called the pact a “win-win situation for labourers, the state government and homebuyers.“This MoU is a win-win situation for labourers from UP, state government developers and also homebuyers. Labourers will be absorbed and construction work will start,” Arora said.According to the initial pact, around 1.25 lakh workers will be absorbed at Ghaziabad, Noida and Greater Noida in the national capital region, while the remaining 1.25 lakh will be taken for projects across other cities in UP.Arora said the association, with 250 developers as members of its UP chapter, will also provide training to labourers to undertake construction works.The real estate sector has been badly hit following the nationwide lockdown imposed on March 25 to control the spread of coronavirus disease Covid-19. Earlier this month, Union housing and urban affairs minister Hardeep Puri had said that reverse migration of labourers and a breakdown of construction material supply chains had adversely affected real estate projects and that they will take quite some time to restart in full gear across the country.“As we have already seen stalling of a lot of projects in Delhi-NCR [National Capital Region] due to various reasons, leading to a lot of litigations, etc, it is vital to take remedial measures now to ensure that Covid-19 does not lead to a complete breakdown of the real estate sector. Such a situation will result in many stalled projects resulting in a huge losses for all the stakeholders especially homebuyers,” he while speaking at a webinar on the 3rd anniversary of the Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA).However, later with relaxations announced in the curbs, the government allowed construction activities in urban areas where workers were available on site and no workers were required to be brought in from outside. On Friday, after the MoU with the Yogi Adityanath government, NAREDCO-UP president RK Arora said the association will get data of labourers from the state government, after which it will run an awareness campaign to attract labourers on their sites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/real-estate/real-estate-body-naredco-to-employ-2-5-lakh-up-migrant-workers-in-projects-across-state/story-UT1OUVNuEKSBO8tVY4QSsI.html
30-05-2020||Chandigarh||Rain likely to give respite to Punjab paddy growers opting for direct seeding||With uninterrupted power supply for farm tubewells yet to be started in Punjab, the forecast of moderate to heavy rainfall in coming two days is likely to give some respite to paddy growers, who have opted for direct seeding of rice (DSR) due to shortage of labour this year.The meteorological department has predicted more rainfall on Saturday and Sunday. Of the 26.3 lakh hectares to be covered under paddy cultivation this year, the state agriculture department has set the target area under direct seeding of rice at 4 lakh hectares, which is 20% more than that last year. Paddy has already been sown on 1.8 lakh hectares through DSR process in the state.“More rain in coming days will help farmers who are going for direct seedig method,” said Sutantar Kumar Airi, director, state agriculture department.Airi said there is no need of puddling and heavy irrigation at the time of sowing under the DSR process, but farmers need to irrigate fields after sowing.However, the uninterrupted power supply to tubewells for eight hours will be resumed by Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) before the start of paddy transplantation (June 10).The DSR process consumes much less water than the traditional the sowing method. Under DSR, paddy seeds are sown almost like wheat. As per agriculture experts, it requires 50% less water and 90% less labour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rain-likely-to-give-respite-to-paddy-growers-opting-for-direct-seeding/story-l8uxQdmi2CH4tyASzfNk0L.html
30-05-2020||Chandigarh||120kg poppy husk, 2kg opium seized from trucks in Jalandhar||The commissionerate police on Friday arrested four drug peddlers in two separate incidents, seizing 120-kg poppy husk and 2-kg opium from their possession. In both cases, the contraband was found hidden in special chambers in trucks. The entire poppy husk and 1kg opium was found hidden in a special extension chamber attached with the diesel tank of a truck loaded with onions, police commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar told a press conference. Bhullar added that the truck was stopped at a naka that a CIA staff-1 team had set up at Samrai village near Jandiala road. Truck driver Amarjeet Singh, 51, of Baba Bakala, and his helper Gurpreet Singh, 35, of Bhalojla village in Tarn Taran, have been arrested and a case under Sections 15,18, 61 and 85 of NDPS Act has been registered against them at Sadar police station.In preliminary interrogation, Amarjeet has told the police that they had brought poppy husk and opium from Rajasthan and was in the drug business for last two and half-years. In the second incident, Ashwani Kumar of Patoia village and Ashwani Kumar of Sahora village in Pathankot district were arrested after one-kg opium was found from a special cabin in their truck stopped near the Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) depot. A case under Sections 15, 61 and 85 of NDPS Act has been registered against them in Rama Mandi police station, the commissioner added. Ashwani had brought the opium from Madhya Pradesh, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/120kg-poppy-husk-2kg-opium-seized-from-trucks-in-jalandhar/story-iY2Rt3lFJHDl3wT2dm9qBI.html
30-05-2020||Chandigarh||10 days on, PGIMER’s tele-consultation services see 1,000 registrations in a day||More than 1,000 patients registered for tele-consultation at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) on Friday.The initiative that began on May 19 after the hospital resumed OPD services. Of the 1,000 who registered, 329 were for specialist consultation provided at the New OPD. PGIMER director professor Jagat Ram said, “In the thick of Covid-19, we had suspended OPDs for fear of transmission. However, I am happy that our initiative of tele-consultation is gaining popularity as we examined 1,000 patients today. Though in a limited number, it is some satisfaction that we are able to cater to the healthcare needs of our patients while ensuring their safety as well.” Professor Ashok Kumar, additional medical superintendent and official spokesperson, PGIMER, while detailing about the process said, “Those seeking tele-consultation services have to call the dedicated telephone numbers of the respective OPD centres between 8am and 9am for registration on the particular OPD days (Monday to Saturday, except OPD holidays) as per the existing OPD schedule.”“Once the registration process is done, patients will receive a call from the respective departments during the day between 10am and 5pm. The patients are requested to provide a working mobile number preferably with WhatsApp facility during the registration for ease of communication with doctors,” added Kumar.These services are only for telephonic consultations; the opening of physical OPD services will be announced separately.PGIMER TELE-CONSULTATION HELPLINE NUMBERSNew OPD: 0172-2755991Advanced Eye Centre (AEC) & Drug De-addiction Treatment Centre: 0172-2755992Advanced Cardiac Centre (ACC): 0172-2755993Advanced Paediatric Centre (APC): 0172-2755994Oral Health Sciences (OHSC): 0172-2755995||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/10-days-on-pgimer-s-tele-consultation-services-see-1-000-registrations-in-a-day/story-GsJU678J7Tnp0uso6l02MI.html
30-05-2020||Chandigarh||No let-up in Haryana as 217 more test positive||Haryana registered 217 fresh Covid-19 positive cases on Friday, the biggest-ever single day spike, with Gurugram alone reporting 115 infections. About 76% of positive cases on Friday were from the three NCR districts of Gurugram, Faridabad and Sonepat. As per the health department bulletin, the state’s Covid count reached 1,721, with 31 positive cases being detected in Faridabad and 19 in Sonepat. Health department officials said the cases in Gurugram were expected to further increase as to and fro movement of people has increased during the relaxations in lockdown norms. Blaming movement from Delhi for the sharp increase in infections in the state, home minister Anil Vij on Friday said the districts recording such a spike were abutting the national capital. “Gurugram alone has recorded over 500 cumulative positive cases while Faridabad has 307 positive cases and Sonepat 199,” a health official said. Vij said he has sent a team of officials led by additional chief secretary, health, Rajeev Arora and director general, health services to NCR districts to analyse the situation. He said accordingly, the state government will take a decision on whether or not to declare these NCR districts as red zones. Vij, who also holds the charge of health portfolio, had on Thursday sought stringency in free movement of people from the national capital following an increase in the number of Covid-19 cases in Haryana’s NCR districts. The fresh curbs meant that people not carrying e-movement passes and not falling in the approved category of persons or services as per the directions of the ministry of home affairs will not be allowed to commute from Delhi to Haryana.“Following relaxations in lockdown 4.0, the to and fro movement of people from Delhi to Haryana had increased. The authorities in the NCR districts seems to have lowered their guard and were allowing unhindered access,” officials said. MLA’S PERSONAL ASSISTANT TESTS POSITIVE IN BHIWANI BJP MLA from Bhiwani, Ghanshyam Saraf’s personal assistant-cum-driver, who was seen attending a felicitation programme recently, tested positive for coronavirus on Friday.Bhiwani deputy commissioner Ajay Kumar said the health department has collected samples of the MLA, his family members and staffers.“My PA had taken part in a programme, but he was sitting at a distance,” MLA Saraf said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-let-up-in-haryana-as-217-more-test-positive/story-bGKEaDT7f7k9BOgw429wTM.html
30-05-2020||City||Panvel records 25 new cases, one death||Panvel City Municipal Corporation reported 25 new Covid positive cases on Friday, taking the total in Panvel region to 473 cases. A 47-year-old woman from Khanda Colony died after being infected.Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) reported 65 new cases on Friday. The total number of patients in Navi Mumbai is 1996. A total of 277 patients recovered and were discharged from hospitals. Two deaths were reported on Friday.Among the new cases are three children -- a 10-year-old boy from Sathenagar, a two-year-old girl from Kopar Khairane and a 13-year-old boy from Nerul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panvel-records-25-new-cases-one-death/story-n1KnjrK7aMprl9itJr7v8I.html
30-05-2020||Chandigarh||Huge opportunity ahead as firms trying to shift from China: Capt||Indicating huge opportunity of idustrial growth in India in view of the increasing number of companies looking to shift from China, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday assured the industry of his government’s full support to ensure 100% operationalisation over the next few daysInteracting with Industry stalwarts through a video-conference, Amarinder took their suggestions into account to facilitate the revival of the state’s economy post Covid lockdown. The CM thanked the industry for taking on the difficult challenge of resuming operations in the midst of the pandemic.With 78% of industry already having resumed operations and 68% of the migrant labour choosing to stay back in the state, the CM directed the industries department to expedite the process of providing clearances and ensuring further ease of business to bring back the industry back on track.Exuding confidence of early resumption of the remaining industry over the next few days, the CM said no train has left with migrant labour from the state on Friday, which was a good sign and indicative of the fact that the workers were satisfied with the arrangements made for their care during the curfew/lockdown.Earlier, leading industrialists suggested various short-term measures to support the economic revival of the state. Representatives from a wide spectrum of sectors, including manufacturing, IT, start-ups, agriculture, healthcare & pharma, education & skill development, media, real estate & tourism, came out with general and sector-specific recommendations to put industrial growth in Punjab back on track.Besides seeking permission for technological upgrade of industry in the red zones to ensure continuity of operations, Sushen Mittal, director of Aarti Group, which has already tied up with Tata Steel to start a scrappage plant by the end of the year, also underlined the need for a formal scrappage policy.Monte Carlo Fashions Ltd executive director Rishab Oswal was in favour of waiver of fixed electricity charges, in addition to formulation of an Industrial Park Policy for within the local government areas.Gaurav Munjal, managing director of Hero Ecotech Ltd, suggested reduction of GST from 12% to 5% on cycles, and urged the state government to raise the issue with the GST Council.Komal Sharma Talwar, a woman entrepreneur representing TT Consultants, called for amendment to IT Park Policy to provide relaxations with respect to property auctions, ownership transfers, right to sell property etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/huge-opportunity-ahead-as-firms-trying-to-shift-from-china-capt/story-jN5YtO9EkvHzffNjnCIZtK.html
30-05-2020||City||Covid case count in Kalyan is 942||The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) recorded 31 new cases on Friday, taking the total number of Covid-19 cases in the city to 942.At a press conference at the KDMC headquarters on Friday, mayor Vinita Rane and civic commissioner Vijay Suryavanshi spoke about the preventive measures taken so far.The civic body has set up 36 ICU (intensive care unit) beds at Shastrinagar civic hospital in Dombivli which is a dedicated Covid hospital, 56 beds at RR Covid hospital in Dombivli, 28 beds at Neon Covid hospital at Kalyan-Shil road and 70 beds at Holy Cross Covid hospital in Kalyan.“The civic body has got a good support from private doctors and they have formed the Kalyan Doctors Army. Since April 9, we have opened 10 fever clinics in all wards,” said Suryavanshi.“All hospitals are carrying out Covid test for free. The Metropolis lab will carry out 10,000 free tests,” he added.The civic chief appealed to the private doctors to attend the patients at their clinics and only send symptomatic patients to Covid hospitals.“All private clinics and hospitals should have an isolated section for such patients,” he added.The civic body has requested Kalyan Regional Transport Office (RTO) to give 100 ambulances. Each ward of the civic body will have 10 ambulances after the 100 ambulances are acquired. “We have a 24x7 war room. All hospitals are linked to get information about the availability of beds and hotspots in the city,” said Rane. Ulhasnagar has recorded 305 positive cases and 10 deaths till now. In Ambernath, 114 positive cases and three deaths have been reported.Badlapur has recorded 206 positive and seven deaths till now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-case-count-in-kalyan-is-942/story-31ccC6zPsO6bLsfxYk95SO.html
30-05-2020||Chandigarh||Bhiwani MLA’s personal assistant tests positive for coronavirus||Bhiwani MLA Ghanshyam Saraf’s personal assistant-cum-driver, who had allegedly violated social distancing norms has tested positive for coronavirus on Friday.The BJP MLA along with his personal assistant and other staff members have been allegedly organising meetings to felicitate corona warriors for the past days.Two days ago, Saraf had organised a meeting in the city and gave appreciation letters to over 45 police personnel. However, the former minister had also distributed ration to needy people by ignoring social distancing norms.A staff member of Ghanshyam Saraf said that they have been felicitating corona warriors for the past many days and the MLA’s infected personal assistant had also taken part in those meetings.“On Monday, Saraf along with his infected aide and three others had visited Chandigarh. After returning home, the MLA’s PA had undergone the Covid-19 test at a civil hospital in Bhiwani. The PA had concealed that his samples were taken and took Saraf to a public meeting”, the staff member added.Bhiwani deputy commissioner Ajay Kumar said that the health department has collected samples of Bhiwani BJP MLA, his family members and staff members.“The health department is tracing the contacts of the positive patient and their samples will be collected. The local MLA’s PA has been admitted to civil hospital for treatment,” he added.A health official pleading anonymity said that they have been tracing the cops, who had taken part in a programme that was organised by Bhiwani MLA this week.On being asked about violating social distancing norms, Saraf said that he had maintained three feet distance while giving away appreciation letters to the police personnel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bhiwani-mla-s-personal-assistant-tests-positive-for-coronavirus/story-r0fts0IYLGVe9Ybr1kIZ5J.html
30-05-2020||Chandigarh||Need to scale down domestic flights to contain Covid-19: Balbir Sidhu||Punjab health and family welfare minister Balbir Sidhu said there is a need to reduce number of domestic flights, especially from Mumbai and Ahmedabad, to contain further spread Covid-19 in state.Presiding over a review meeting of the health department, he said that most cases reported in Punjab have a travel history from other states and countries. So, to prevent community spread, there is need to put focus on passengers, especially those coming in from high risk states and countries, he added.He plans to discuss this issue with CM Captain Amarinder Singh in the cabinet meeting to be held on Saturday. “It’s on record that only 151 positive persons in state do not have any travel history. Of the 99.9% contact tracing, 1,476 persons (roughly 8%) have been found positive for the virus.He directed officials to ensure maximum sampling of passengers to trace affected persons. He said there are 40 covid-related deaths so far, occurring mostly in patients over 50 years, almost all afflicted with serious underlying illness such as kidney disease, cancer, HIV, diabetes, and high blood pressure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/need-to-scale-down-domestic-flights-to-contain-covid-19-balbir-sidhu/story-5T3hx3PfydrGBNrGQ7qSIO.html
30-05-2020||Chandigarh||Free power to continue, Capt assures farmers||Amid growing criticism from farmer organisations and opposition parties, Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday said there is no plan to withdraw free power to farmers in the state.“Let me reassure our farmers that there is no plan to withdraw free power to agriculture in Punjab. I am cognizant of your economic condition and appreciate the hard work put in by you in every crop to grow food grain for the country. Free power will continue!” he tweeted.The CM’s clarification came two days after the state cabinet at its meeting held under his chairmanship agreed in-principle to switch from free electricity to cash transfer of subsidy to farmers through the direct benefit transfer (DBT) route from financial year 2021-22.The decision to introduce DBT for power subsidy, which is part of the reforms-linked additional borrowing allowed by the Centre, saw the opposition parties, particularly the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), go after the state government. Both parties have strongly opposed the move, accusing the Congress government of hurting the state’s beleaguered peasantry.SAD CORE COMMITTEE MEETS ON ISSUE TODAYThe Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has called its senior party leadership for a meeting of its core committee, its top decision-making body on Saturday. “The committee will discuss the strategy for a state-wide agitation against the Captain Amarinder Singh government to force it to recall the decision on DBT,” said SAD secretary Daljit Singh Cheema.CM’S NERVOUS DENIAL A SIGN OF PANIC: SUKHBIRSAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal has described the CM’s denial of the government’s move to withdraw free power facility to farmers as ‘the desperate and nervous response of a CM who has been caught in the act’. “Amarinder has obviously felt the pressure of the warnings from the SAD and farmers over the past 24 hours,” Sukhbir said, adding that, “He is now creating a smokescreen to hide his government’s real intent, but he is still misleading the farmers on free power as he has not said a single word on his cabinet’s in-principle decision to replace free power with DBT.”He questioned, “Will you please explain what does your cabinet’s decision on DBT mean and how will the state government implement it if not by introducing metered supply?,” Sukhbir also declared that his party will ‘never let these diversionary tactics succeed. We will not let him scrap free power through the back-door’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/free-power-to-continue-capt-assures-farmers/story-YzMq8hyLbD3koEBs5vf7NP.html
30-05-2020||City||Thane records 146 new cases, 4 Covid deaths||For the eighth consecutive day, Thane city has reported more than 100 Covid positive cases on a single day. The city recorded 146 new cases on Friday. Four people, including a woman and three men, have died.The death toll in the city has reached 79 while the total number of positive cases is 2,750.Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner, Thane Municipal Corporation, said, “All the four deaths reported on Friday are from Thane civil hospital. A 63-year-old woman from Wagale Estate was admitted on May 19 and died on the same day. A 72-year-old man and a 40-year-old man from Indira Nagar and 62-year-old from Bhoir Compound also died after being infected.” Over 2,242 people are in quarantine centres of Thane Municipal Corporation. Guardian minister Eknath Shinde surveyed the quarantine centre in New Horizon School on Ghodbunder on Friday after receiving several complaints of unhygienic condition.Shinde said, “I have given directives to the TMC officials to ensure all facilities are provided to people in the quarantine facilities. The patients and close contacts residing in these centres should get nutritious diet, proper beds, blankets, pillow, medicines and clean toilets.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-records-146-new-cases-4-covid-deaths/story-HZSepcPjyXKlQsPQJ8b4HM.html
30-05-2020||City||1,447 new cases take Mumbai’s Covid count to 36,932; toll 1,173||The city on Friday recorded 1,447 new Covid-19 cases and 38 deaths, taking the count to 36,932, and toll to 1,176. There are now 19,745 active Covid-19 cases in the city. Dharavi recorded 41 new cases on Friday, taking the total number of cases to 1,715. No new death has been recorded in the area.Of the 38 deaths, 28 patients had comorbidities; 22 patients were men and 16 female. Two among the deaths were below 40 years of age; 20 were above 60 years, and 16 were between 40 and 60 years.Mumbai has conducted 1,89,976 tests so far. In the 24 hours between Thursday and Friday, 4,266 tests have been conducted. On Thursday, May 28, Mumbai reported an average growth rate of 4.93%. Over the week between May 22 and May 7, average growth rate was reported to be 5%.Now, three wards in the city are showing a growth rate of over 8% –N Ward comprising Ghatkopar has a growth rate of 8.8% with 1614 active cases, S ward comprising Bhandup, with a growth rate of 8.2% and 1,377 active cases, and R-Central ward of Borivli West, with a growth rate of 8.1% and 724 active cases.Currently, six wards in Mumbai have more than 2,000 active cases. These include the G-North ward comprising Dadar, Mahim and Dharavi, E ward of Byculla, F/North ward in Wadala and Sewri, L ward in Kurla, H-East ward comprising Bandra East and K East ward comprising Andheri West. There are three wards with active cases below 500 – B ward of Bhendi Bazar, C ward of Girgaum and Kalbadevi, and R-North ward of Borivli. Another fire brigade personnel, a 57-year old driver-cum-operator attached to Vile Parle Fire station, died on Thursday after testing positive for Covid-19. This is the third Covid-19 death in the Mumbai Fire Brigade in the past one week. The Mumbai Fire Brigade’s headquarters at Byculla have been partially converted into a quarantine centre with a 30-bed capacity. The staffer’s wife has also tested positive and has been quarantined at the Covid Care Centre at the headquarters. So far, over 50 fire brigade personnel have tested positive for Covid-19.Regarding lifting of lockdown in Mumbai, staggered lifting of lockdown in parts of the city for economic stimulus, mayor Kishori Pednekar said, “No decision has been taken, and no plan has been finalised yet.”Municipal commissioner IS Chahal, and other officers in the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) warroom for Covid-19 were unavailable for comment. Lockdown 4.0 announced by the central government on May 18 is to last till May 31, and no announcement has been made by the Maharashtra government on extension of this lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1-447-new-cases-take-mumbai-s-covid-count-to-36-932-toll-1-173/story-VYuKZf939v6doBfpwh9PGP.html
30-05-2020||Chandigarh||Decision on observing Op Bluestar anniv after Centre clears air on lockdown: Takht||Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh on Friday said he would decide on observing 36th anniversary of Operation Bluestar once the Centre clears the air on the lockdown, which expires on May 31.Responding to a query during an informal talk with mediapersons at the Akal Takht secretariat, he said: “Let’s see what decision the government takes on lifting the lockdown. The decision on observing Operation Bluestar anniversary will be taken after that.” Taking a serious note of recent fire incidents reported in gurdwaras due to short circuits, Giani Harpreet Singh said unnecessary electric appliances should be avoided inside shrines. “Meanwhile, Sarbat Khalsa-appointed parallel acting jathedar of Akal Takht Dhian Singh Mand will appear at the Akal Takht on the Operation Bluestar anniversary to read out his message in name of the community, said Jarnail Singh Sakhira, his representative in Amritsar.He said they are making arrangements for observing the anniversary to pay tribute to those killed in the 1984 army operation.However, the police are taking measures to prevent gathering inside the Golden Temple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/decision-on-observing-op-bluestar-anniv-after-centre-clears-air-on-lockdown-takht/story-brSuOY8BbZvJsrE86cyFlM.html
30-05-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra Covid-19 tally crosses 60K; 8,381 recover in 24 hours||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 case tally crossed the 60,000-mark and death toll went past 2,000 on Friday, but the state also witnessed recovery of 8,381 patients, the most to be discharged in 24 hours. The state’s recovery rate rose to 43.38% from 31.26% on Thursday, with the total of recovered patients going up to 26,997. While the state reported 2,682 new cases, taking its tally to 62,228, the fatalities increased to 2,098 with 116 deaths recorded on Friday. Of these, according to the state health department, 46 deaths were from the past two days and the rest from the period between May 16 and May 26. Mumbai saw its Covid-19 case count rise to 36,932 with an addition of 1,447 cases and its toll rose to 1,173 with 38 more fatalities reported on Friday.State health minister Rajesh Tope said recovery rate improving was “a positive sign”. “The protocol change is one of the reasons for better recovery rate. But we are sending patients home only after ensuring they have no symptoms and there is no risk of them spreading the virus as antibodies have developed after ten days of admission,” said Tope, adding that the sudden spike in the recovery numbers on Friday was also because of the addition of numbers from the past few days. Dr Avinash Supe, former dean at King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital and a member of the expert committee appointed by the state to tackle coronavirus, said, the recovery rate had improved owing to segregation of patients and the subsequent line of treatment. “The change in discharge protocol by ICMR is one of the reasons for the improvement… it is [similar policy] followed all over the world. Patients are discharged only after ensuring there is no risk of them spreading the virus. It’s a good sign that although cases are rising, the recovery rate has improved and even mortality rate has improved to 3.37%,” said Supe. The state government, meanwhile, is likely to further relax lockdown curbs in red zones from Monday. During a meeting with the Cabinet secretary on Thursday, Maharashtra chief secretary Ajoy Mehta discussed the state’s exit plan from the ongoing lockdown. More commercial activities are likely to be allowed in red zones and inter-district transport activities may be permitted in non-red zones.The state, however, is wary of the likely surge in cases after easing restrictions. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray told district collectors and divisional commissioners to ensure that there was no surge in the cases. “We have no choice but to open up the lockdown to ensure that the state economy revives rapidly, but at the same time, our responsibility increases to ensure that the virus is chased away more aggressively,” Thackeray said.After having allowed activities at stadiums and sports complex during the fourth phase of lockdown, the state is expected to allow jogging and exercise activities at playgrounds and stadiums from Monday. “We are of the opinion that private offices, too, should be allowed to open with 33% of their staff being present. The Centre has already allowed them to operate outside containment zones. But a final decision is yet to be taken,” said a senior government official. The state government also hinted at a relief package to help fight the pandemic. Deputy chief minister and finance minister Ajit Pawar said, “We are facing a different sort of crisis and we also have to find a way out of this. The state government will soon declare a financial package for the people. The decision will be taken by the state cabinet.”Pawar also commented on the Rs21-lakh-crore package declared by the Centre. “There are many opinions about actual amount that the people will get… A view is that the daily wagers should also be considered in the package, as they earn money on a daily basis,” he said.Pawar said local people should come forward to take over the jobs in industries after an exodus of migrant workers from the state. “Migrant workers have gone back to their native places. I’m of the opinion that people from the state, especially from backward areas, should come forward to replace them. The state is also ready to provide them with the necessary training,” he said.The finance minister also admitted that the reverse migration from cities to rural areas has led to rise in Covid-19 cases in districts. “The central, state and local administrations are fighting the battle… It is also a fact that cases have increased in rural areas after people migrated from urban areas. But there is no need to worry if everyone takes all precautions,” Pawar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-tally-crosses-60k-8-381-recover-in-24-hours/story-vE4acR1eIA0FjGKwWnqPkI.html
30-05-2020||Mumbai||Pre-monsoon showers in Mumbai on June 1: IMD||The weather bureau on Friday issued a warning for rain and thundershowers in Mumbai and Palghar from June 1. Thane, too, could witness showers from May 31, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) Mumbai’s district rainfall warning said. It also predicted rain and thundershowers, with lightning and gusty winds, for parts of south Konkan from May 31. “A low pressure area is likely to form over south-east and adjoining east-central Arabian Sea around May 31. It is likely to form into a depression and move north-north-westwards towards the west coast, leading to rain and thundershowers...,” said an IMD official.Thundershowers have been predicted for parts of central Maharashtra, Marathwada, and isolated areas in Vidarbha from May 31.The official onset date of the south-west monsoon over Mumbai was declared as June 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pre-monsoon-showers-in-mumbai-on-june-1-imd/story-HGVNtxgSmYwlaH0N8872VN.html
30-05-2020||Chandigarh||Wedding bands go silent as 50-member attendance cap hits biz||Bagpipe player Mohan Pandey is a worried man as his team has not received any order to play musical instruments at wedding functions for the past two months. His family of five could soon face problems of even arranging food, with savings rapidly exhausting. A brass band team comprises 15-20 persons including musicians, mare handler and those carrying lights with barat or wedding procession. A bagpipe band has nine musicians, including trumpet players and a ring leader. Due to the coronavirus outbreak, marriages are now a low-key affair where only a few close family members remain present and the Center stipulating the gathering to be of less than 50 persons.Pandey’s team head Balbir Singh said,” Our band used to get orders from Malwa region and we often visited Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh to play instruments at weddings. Every year, between April-July, we got at least 15 invitations a month. This year, however, people want us to return money taken in advance. We are helpless.” Singh, who is also the chairperson of the Union of Punjab Bagpipers, said there are about 100 bands in the state and traditionally the post-wheat-harvesting season April onwards was when a sizeable section of the rural population solemnised marriages.“More than 20,000 musicians, including the dholis, members of bagpipe and brass bands in the state are battling for livelihood,” he said.Another musician Avtar Singh said, “Bagpipers and brass bands are usually in high demand for Shobha Yatras during gurpurbs and Hindu religious occasions. We were also regularly invited by Rajasthani customers for Gangaur festival and Jain festivals. This year, for weeks, there has been no customer call.”For a small entrepreneur like Pappu at Bathinda’s Sirki Bazar locality, the lockdown has come as a blow to his business as well. “I have to sell one of my four mares as no one is placing orders for chariot or mare for marriages. Per day diet expense for a mare is Rs 500 and I unable to meet it without any income. Band players should be exempted from the restriction of 50 guests at the weddings,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/wedding-bands-go-silent-as-50-member-attendance-cap-hits-biz/story-y4IMbw5vrxXINzuYCqdQJP.html
30-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab raises fine for spitting, not wearing masks in public to Rs 500||The Punjab government on Friday enhanced stricter penalties for violating guidelines issued to contain the spread of Coronavirus by increasing the fine for spitting and not wearing masks in public to Rs 500.The state government also increased the fine for violating the home quarantine to Rs 2,000. Previously, the state government imposed a fine of Rs 200 for not wearing masks, Rs 100 for spitting at public places, and Rs 500 for violating home quarantine guidelines.Taking cognisance of violations of the guidelines, health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said penalties needed to be enhanced to keep Punjab safe from the coronavirus. The state government also fixed Rs 2,000 as fine for violating social-distancing norms by owners of shops or commercial places.A fine of Rs 3,000 will be imposed on owners of buses, Rs 2,000 on cars, and Rs 500 on auto-rickshaws and two-wheelers for violating social-distancing norms, Sidhu said.Non-payment of fine will attract legal action under IPC Section 188 (order promulgated by a public servant empowered by the law to do so), he said in a statement.He said the Amarinder Singh government is working round-the-clock to prevent the spread of the disease.He said Punjab became the leading state in the country in recovery of Covid-19 patients, which is around 91%.The minister said that officials not below the post of block development and panchayat officer, naib tehsildar and any official authorised by deputy commissioners can impose the penalties under the provisions of Epidemic Disease Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-raises-fine-for-spitting-not-wearing-masks-in-public-to-rs-500/story-XlSTc8POmZImmS4j2w1CNL.html
30-05-2020||Chandigarh||Private traders stay away from wheat purchase this Rabi season in Punjab||Private traders stayed away from wheat purchase in the mandis this Rabi season, preferring the open market sale scheme (OMSS) of the Food Corporation of India (FCI) where they get it cheaper.Of the total 127 lakh tonne of wheat procured so far this season, private traders have purchased only 57,000 tonne, which is just 0.45%. They bought 1.7 lakh tonne, ie 1.3%, of 131 lakh tonne in the corresponding period last season.The dip in purchase by private traders is being attributed to OMSS as well as Covid-19, as wheat procurement was done by calling farmers to mandis in batches to maintain social distancing and avoid overcrowding.“When we enter mandis, price goes up by Rs 10-20 per quintal even if we don’t make purchases in large quantities, benefiting the farmers,” said Mohinder Pal, a Rajpura-based trader who procures wheat on behalf of big companies such as Reliance and ITC.“In OMSS, traders got wheat cheaper by Rs 200-250 per quintal and many stayed away due to the coronavirus pandemic. In OMSS, we have to sacrifice on quality as the FCI sold wheat of the previous season whereas in mandis fresh produce is available,” he added. On Twitter, former chairman-cum-managing director of FCI Siraj Hussain said that the Punjab government’s purchase was 99.5% of total arrivals. He gave full marks to the officials engaged in procurement, pointing out that there were side effects – “private buyer have totally withdrawn from Punjab”.Hussain, who also worked as the Union agriculture secretary, attributed lack of interest by traders to higher taxes imposed on wheat purchase in Punjab, which includes 2.5% ‘dami’ charged by commission agents and 3% rural development funds and mandi fee each. Private traders are also required to pay 2% additional over and above the minimum support price.“There’s not much difference if private players have not entered the mandis. In the past also, their share was very negligible, which has seen a further slide this year,” said Anindita Mitra, director, food and civil supplies, Punjab. “We are happy that MSP has been paid to the farmers and this way a total of Rs 26,000 crore was pumped into rural economy,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/private-traders-stay-away-from-wheat-purchase-this-rabi-season-in-punjab/story-V4Q7fG8JcPv9LaR75hd1kN.html
30-05-2020||Chandigarh||Less than 1% cases required ventilator in Punjab||Even as there was a huge political uproar over lack of ventilators in covid-19 facilities, as the state prepared itself to deal with the outbreak of coronavirus, data reveals that in Punjab the breathing machine was used in less than 1% of total cases.Of 2,197 patients, only 21 required a ventilator to date, data that the Punjab health and family welfare department has compiled shows.However, 19 (90%) could not survive and died, pointing to the low survival rate of positive cases after ventilator support is required to them. Two patients are still on ventilator, with one of them critical. Punjab had made provision of 600 ventilators in government and private facilities for covid-19 patients.“In Punjab, 83% of covid-19 cases remained asymptomatic and recovered without exhibiting any symptom. Ventilator is needed at a critical stage and we are lucky that use of this machine has remained below our anticipation,” Punjab’s nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said.Among 375 symptomatic patients that the state has seen to date, 5.6% needed a ventilator. Experts claims that is lower than in other countries, but despite the low utilisation of the machine, the health department will procure more ventilators.“It’s a battle in which the state cannot relax. You never know, when another outbreak might hit and the need for ventilators shoots up. We have to be prepared for the worst,” said a senior health functionary.Figures also show that oxygen support was required in less than 50 cases and most symptomatic patients recovered without serious ailments, except those who died.Among 42 death to date, covid-19 was confirmed in five cases post-death and in all death cases, co-morbidity was present.Punjab did highest sampling on May 27Sampling for covid-19 in Punjab saw its biggest-ever jump on May 27, when the state conducted 3,544 tests. Over the past three days, nearly 9000 RT-PCR tests have been done, with the number increasing by around 4% every day.For the two weeks previous to this, the daily average was between 2,000 and 2,100. The state now has a testing capacity of 4,810 a day across government and private facilities.“More random samples would be collected over the next couple of days to check the spread of the virus,” said Dr Bhaskar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/less-than-1-cases-required-ventilator-in-punjab/story-IXKIv2xsTuLwYJrpQppPcL.html
30-05-2020||Mumbai||HC asks court authorities to respond to plea seeking Kolhapur court premise for Covid ward||The Bombay high court (HC) has directed the high court administration and the principal judge of district and sessions court of Kolhapur to file their response to a plea that sought temporary allotment of the vacant premises of districts and sessions court in Kolhapur to the adjoining Chhatrapati Pramila Raje District Hospital to set up an isolation ward for Covid-19 patients. The petition filed by Dilip Desai, a social activist through senior advocate Satish Talekar, said that as Covid and non-Covid patients, which included pregnant women, were accessing the district hospital from the same entry and exit point there was an urgent need to segregate the patients. The petition had further said that the court authorities and principal judge refused a request from the Kolhapur District Disaster Management authority to hand over the court premises, which was lying vacant for six years, for setting up the isolation facility for Covid patients and urged the court to pass appropriate directions in the larger interest of non-Covid patients. In the previous hearing on May 26, the division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice KK Tated had directed the petitioner to implead the registrar general of the Bombay HC and principal district and sessions judge which the petitioner complied with. On Friday when the matter came up for hearing, the high court and principal judge represented by senior advocate Milind Sathe was asked to respond to the grievance made in the plea by Monday. The court further directed the petitioner to file a rejoinder by Thursday and posted the petition for hearing on June 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-asks-court-authorities-to-respond-to-plea-seeking-kolhapur-court-premise-for-covid-ward/story-NFfhIjNELaJirVgQEZYwPM.html
30-05-2020||City||Another 1,000-bed hospital to be set up in Thane||The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has now started the work of setting up its third 1,000-bed hospital in Maulana Abdul Kalam Azaad Stadium in Kausa also known as Kausa stadium. Civic commissioner Vijay Singhal, guardian minister Eknath Shinde and state housing minister Jitendra Awhad conducted a survey of the stadium on Friday.TMC has proposed two more 1,000-bed hospitals in the city, one at Global Impact Hub and another in Wagale Estate. The work of the hospital in Global Impact Hub is in its final stages. The civic commissioner had also surveyed five other plots in the city to set up hospitals.A TMC official said, “The 1,000-bed hospital in Kausa will be set up by the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (Mhada). Of the total beds, 500 will have oxygen facility while 100 beds will be used to set up an intensive care unit (ICU).”While Mumbra has more than 334 Covid cases, there is only one Covid hospital, which is a private one thus making it unaffordable to many patients. The 1,000-bed hospital will cater to patients from Diva, Mumbra, Kausa and Kalwa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/another-1-000-bed-hospital-to-be-set-up-in-thane/story-z8VnK7UOMycYerOPf0QKPM.html
30-05-2020||Mumbai||17 SRPF staff booked in Mumbai for not reporting to duty, deserting force||The State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) on Thursday lodged a first information report (FIR) against 17 of its personnel for allegedly not reporting to duty despite several warnings. The personnel were suspended earlier and were asked to be present for an inquiry. However, they continued to remain incommunicado. Inspector RL Puri of Vanrai police station in Goregaon (East) confirmed the development. The FIR has been registered under section 14 (deserting force) of the SRPF Act, 1951; section 145 (misconduct by police officers) of the Maharashtra Police Act, 1951, and 56 (failure of officer in duty) of the Disaster Management Act, 2005. According to Vanrai police, the FIR, a copy of which is with HT, was registered by a 57-year-old complainant Laxman Atkari, a personnel from SRPF’s unit 8 and head of the 17 suspended personnel.Atkari’s complaint stated that Maharashtra is facing an outbreak, owing to which the Disaster Management Act is being implemented in the state and SRPF is entrusted with the responsibility of maintaining law and order. But the 17 personnel from SRPF constabulary have remained absent for a long duration and have been served with notices several times. Atkari has also made phone calls to them but did not receive any response.While three personnel have been absent since February, four have been absent from March, eight from April and two since May. The personnel were suspended and were asked to be present for an inquiry but continued to remain absent after which the SRPF decided to lodge a criminal case against them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/17-srpf-staff-booked-in-mumbai-for-not-reporting-to-duty-deserting-force/story-AJ7n9SstBtY2BdrgXElrRM.html
30-05-2020||Chandigarh||Two deaths, 43 fresh cases in Punjab||BATHINDA/Jalandhar/Ludhiana/AmritsarPunjab on Friday reported two deaths and 43 cases of coronavirus, taking the state’s tally to 2,290. The state has so far reported 42 deaths due to Covid-19.Amritsar topped the Friday’s chart with 12 cases followed by eight in Jalandhar, six in Ludhiana, five in Pathankot, four in Bathinda, three each in Patiala and Gurdaspur, and one each in Rupnagar and Sangrur. Pritpal Singh, 51, a resident of Chhawani Mohalla in Ludhiana died of Covid-19 at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMC&H), said medical superintendent Dr Ashwani Chaudhary. The patient was suffering from hypertension, diabetes and renal failure and was referred from a private hospital in Model Town last night. He was put on ventilator support but could not survive. Ludhiana has reported eight Covid deaths so far.Besides, five more people tested positive for the virus in Ludhiana. A 60-year-old man who tested positive for the virus in Pathankot on Wednesday succumbed on Friday. Fourteen cops of the Dialpura police station in Bathinda were quarantined after a bootlegger, who was in police custody, tested positive. Bathinda senior superintendent of police (SSP) Nanak Singh said the accused was arrested with illicit liquor on May 23. A case was registered against him under the Excise Act at Dialpura. His samples were sent for laboratory analysis on May 25 and his report came positive on Friday. The SSP said efforts are being made to trace the source of his infection and those who came in his contact. He said the police station is being sanitised.Besides, three more persons, including an anganwadi worker, tested positive for the virus in the district. With this, the number of active Covid-19 cases in Bathinda has reached five.Deputy commissioner B Srinivasan said two infected persons had recently travelled to Ambala and Delhi. A team of doctors is trying to trace possible contacts and source of their infection, said the DC.12 MORE INFECTED IN AMRITSARTwelve more people contracted infection in Amritsar district. “Eight residents of Mallian and Baba Bakala, who recently returned from Mumbai and were home quarantined, tested positive. Besides, two natives of Baba Bakala, who returned from Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh, also tested positive,” said Amritsar civil surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore.The report of a Tehsilpura resident, who was in touch with an infected person, also came positive. All the patients are admitted in the isolation ward of Government Medical College and Hospital, Amritsar, and are stable, said the civil surgeon. With this, the district’s tally has reached to 374, of which 306 have been discharged and seven have died. THREE CASES IN GURDASPUR Gurdaspur reported three fresh cases on Friday, taking the active cases in the district to 11. Civil surgeon, Dr Kishan Chand said fresh cases included a two youths of Khushhalpur village who had returned from Madhya Pradesh a few days ago. The third person, a 43-year-old man of Talwandi village, recently returned from Ahmedabad.A 27-year-old man from Nangal of Rupnagar district, who came back from Delhi, also tested positive for Covid-19. He has been shifted to Gian Sagar Medical College and Hospital, Banur.EIGHT TEST POSITIVE IN JALANDHAR Eight persons tested positive of the novel coronavirus in Jalandhar on Friday. With this, the district’s Covid count has reached 247, of which 209 have recovered and eight have died. Health officials said that seven persons who tested positive on Friday were contacts of positive patients while one patient’s source of the infection still untraced. Patiala reported three more cases on Friday. Civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said 57-year-old tested positive after his samples were taken at Mohali airport. Two other include 42-year-old from Lanja village and 18-year-OPD from Haripur village after they returned from other states.MAN FOUND POSITIVE AFTER DEATH Five persons, including a 60-year-old man, who died on May 27, tested positive for the virus in Pathankot. Senior medical officer Dr Bhupinder Singh said three from a family of one infected person have also tested positive while a woman from Madhopur is also infected. Meanwhile, a 62-year-old tempo driver tested positive in Sangrur. (Inputs from Gurdaspur, Sangrur and Patiala)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-deaths-43-fresh-cases-in-punjab/story-jbIo5bwA1GDgK9AriE8HdN.html
30-05-2020||Mumbai||Somaiya seeks HC intervention to rope in private ambulances||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Kirit Somaiya has moved the Bombay high Court seeking directions to the state government to increase the number of ambulances in the city and to rope in private ambulance providers to tackle the shortage in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.A division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and justice KK Tated wgile, while hearing the petition filed through advocates Gaurav Mehta and Shiwani Agarwal for Dhruve Liladhar & Co., was told that ‘108 ambulance services’ provided by the government has only 93 vehicles in Mumbai which is insufficient considering the number of calls it receives to ferry both Covid and non-Covid patients each day. The advocates submitted there are around 3,000 ambulances run by private operators that have been withdrawn during the lockdown.“It is shocking and surprising to note that there have been significant amount of disappearances or withdrawals of these private ambulance services from hospitals and/or the streets of the city,” the plea states.Pointing to the problems faced by Mumbaiites due to the shortage of ambulances, the petition states, “Citizens are waiting for almost entire day in various cases for an ambulance to reach them. Whilst the petitioner appreciates efforts being taken by the Covid-19 warriors, there has to be basic infrastructure in the form of ambulances provided by the government to connect people with healthcare workers.” The petition filed against state health minister Rajesh Tope and other government authorities further said that nearly 93% privately operated ambulances are absent and government ambulances are insufficient.The petition has also sought details from the state government on action proposed by it to deal with shortage of ambulances and urged the court to direct the government to take necessary steps to bring the missing ambulances back in the system to aid Covid warriors.After hearing the submissions, the bench directed the state and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation to respond with the details sought in the plea and posted the matter for hearing on June 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/somaiya-seeks-hc-intervention-to-rope-in-private-ambulances/story-FtZx3jVAJsLiwwGrf7YaLO.html
30-05-2020||Delhi||DU considers skipping sports trials this year; admissions under some ECA categories unlikely||The Delhi University (DU) may not conduct trials for sports quota admissions to undergraduate courses this year given the situation wrought by the Covid-19 pandemic, university officials said, adding that the admission under this category will be granted based on merit certificates. The university is also considering stopping admissions under certain extra curricular activities (ECA) for the academic session 2020-21 as there is no recognized body to issue certificates for the same.In DU colleges, 5% supernumerary seats are reserved under these two categories collectively in each course. Every year, the colleges submit a list sports and activities for which they need students to the admissions branch. Under the sports quota, candidates have to appear for trials in their preferred discipline. While the trials carry 60 marks, another 40 marks are allotted based on merit certificates. Under the ECA quota, trials are conducted at two levels until last year, carrying a weightage of 75 marks. The remaining 25 were allotted based on merit certificates.The DU offers admission under the sports quota in 27 disciplines including archery, athletics, cricket, football, badminton, hockey, swimming, wrestling, tennis, judo, and basketball, among others. Under ECA, there are 14 recognised activities — creative writing, dance, debate, fine arts, music, music instrumental (such as tabla, harmonium, sitar, dholak, drums, guitar, and sarod), theatre, NCC, NSS, and yoga, among others. The candidates are first shortlisted on the basis of merit certificates earned over the last three years. Those shortlisted, have to report at different venues for centralised trials.However, this year, due to the social distancing norms to control the spread of Covid-19, the admissions department is considering skipping the trials under the sports quota and giving admissions on the basis of certificates.Shobha Bagai, the head of the University’s admission department, said it’s easier to ascertain the authenticity of sports certificates than ECA certificates. “It’s a huge risk to call candidates to the campus for sports and ECA trials this year. Also, it will not be possible for students to travel from different states to appear for the trials. So, we are considering if admissions can be given on the basis of certificates issued by authorised sports bodies. In the case of ECA, there is no such system, and students sometimes submit certificates issued by residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) or local bodies. It becomes difficult to ascertain the authenticity of such certificates since we do not have any list of recognised bodies for ECA unlike sports. Therefore, we have to see if for a year, we can forgo admissions under ECA,” she said.Bagai said since these seats are supernumerary in nature, it will not affect the total intake of courses. “Also for some ECA disciplines, we can try to see if a candidate can upload a video of his/her performance to obtain the admission. All these are being considered. We need to discuss these issues with our statutory bodies before taking a decision,” she said.DU has already announced that it will shift the entire admission process online the coming academic year.A senior official, requesting anonymity, said some admissions can be made under ECA disciplines such as National Cadet Corps, a tri-services youth organisation, and the National Service Scheme (NSS), a social service organisation for youths. Pankaj Sinha, a member of the university’s sports council, said the university should wait until July before taking a decision.”There is a possibility that things will return to normal by August and we may be able to conduct trials for sports admissions then. We can call students in small batches for the trials to maintain social distancing,” he said.Several teachers said instead of conducting centralised trials, DU should ask colleges to conduct their own trials. “It will help in maintain social distancing. The administration should not forgo some ECA categories since many students who are not academically strong rely on their talent to secure an admission,” Rajesh Jha, a member of the executive council, Delhi University, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/du-considers-skipping-sports-trials-this-year-admissions-under-some-eca-categories-unlikely/story-S0UDVYzifj1z4w0ka9uACP.html
30-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt details steps taken to reduce delay in disposing Covid infected bodies||The Delhi government on Friday told the High Court that they had taken urgent steps to ensure there was no delay in the disposal of the bodies of persons who died of Covid-19 or were suspected to have died of the disease. The High Court had, on Thursday, taken suo moto cognisance of bodies piling up in Covid-19 mortuaries and filed a public interest litigation ( PIL).In the PIL, the court had quoted a Hindustan Times report dated May 28 that detailed how all 80 storage racks at the Covid-19 mortuary of the Lok Nayak Hospital were full and 28 bodies were stacked on the floor. The court also quoted the report stating that eight bodies were returned from Nigambodh Ghat on Tuesday because the facility was not in a position to accept more bodies, as only two of the three CNG furnaces were working and the bodies of those who had died five days before that were yet to be cremated.During the hearing on Friday, the Delhi government’s additional standing counsel Sanjay Ghose told the bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Sangita Dhingra Sehgal that urgent steps, such as extending working hours at the crematorium from 9am to 4pm to 7am to 10pm (from May 17), had been taken. “We have further informed the court that 29 bodies were disposed of on May 28, and on May 30 the remaining 35 bodies will be disposed of. Only bodies on which autopsies or investigations are to be carried out will be retained. We assured the Court that all steps are being taken to avoid such circumstances in the future,” Ghose said.The government’s additional standing counsel said that many other steps have been taken to resolve the situation. One such step he mentioned was allowing Lok Nayak Hospital to send bodies to others crematoriums and not just Nigambodh Ghat. “Lok Nayak Hospital was earlier authorised to send bodies only to Nigambodh Ghat. However, now it can also send bodies to crematoriums at Panchkuian and Punjabi Bagh,” he added.He also submitted that the government has authorised traditional wood-fired cremations, in addition to electric and CNG furnaces. PPE kits for all workers as well as bodies have been arranged, he said.Explaining why the problem arose, the government’s additional standing counsel said that an “unavoidable situation” had arisen due to several factors such as an increase in the number of Covid-19 deaths in those three-four days. He also said that these factors included the reduced capacity of Nigambodh Ghat to handle bodies on account of snags in furnaces and the workers at the crematorium refusing to handle bodies of those who died of Covid-19. He also said that relatives had refused to come forward to claim the bodies.Appearing for the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, standing counsel Akhil Mittal said that the civic body has extended the area around Nigambodh Ghat to accommodate the bodies since permission has been granted for wood cremation. He submitted that now 35 bodies can be accommodated for burning at one time (including CNG as well as wood furnaces). He submitted that a work order had already been issued in April for the replacement of three CNG furnaces at the crematorium. The crematorium is under the jurisdiction of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, while the Lok Nayak Hospital is run by Delhi government. The hospital is also the largest dedicated Covid-19 hospital and is currently not admitting any non-Covid cases. On Friday, the hospital had 607 Covid-19 patients of the total 2,305 admitted in different hospitals across the city. The number of confirmed deaths in Delhi due to Covid-19 on Friday evening was 398. The counsels for the other municipal corporations assured the court that they would take adequate steps to avoid such conditions in the future. The bench, following this, directed that this situation should not be repeated and no body should be returned. It sought a status report from the authorities and posted the matter for June 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-details-steps-taken-to-reduce-delay-in-disposing-bodies/story-cdIQfUHsHi7N7bDuID5YoK.html
30-05-2020||Delhi||RWAs demand cap on Covid-19 treatment in private hospitals||With the Delhi government registering a sharp jump in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the Capital, residents want the government to cap the cost of treatment in private hospitals and nursing homes, just like Maharashtra has.The Delhi government had, on May 25, ordered 117 hospitals and nursing homes to reserve 20% of their beds for Covid-19 patients. As per the Delhi government order issued by Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS), “These 117 private hospitals shall bill the Covid-19 patients as per their respective schedule of charges.” Citing the Maharashtra government’s decision to cap treatment cost, civil society members and residents’ welfare associations in Delhi are demanding similar action by the Delhi government.The Maharashtra government’s health department issued new guidelines on May 21 under which private hospitals have been allowed to charge up to ₹4,000 daily for the treatment of Covid-19 patients in a general ward, ₹7,000 in an intensive care unit (ICU) and ₹9,000 on a ventilator.Earlier this month, members of Save Our City Campaign, an association of RWAs, federations and social activists, wrote to Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal requesting the government to standardise the cost of consumables, medicines and treatment.Rajiv Kakria, the convenor of Save Our City campaign, said, “When the government has capped the cost of hotel rooms used for Covid-19 care and stopped schools from increasing the fees, why can’t it do the same for private hospitals?”He added, “These are testing times and the government should take measures to safeguard the interest of citizens. Like the Maharashtra government, Delhi government too should cap the cost of treatment for Covid-19 in private hospitals.”The cost of room charges should be decided as per the facility available at the hospitals. “The government can divide these hospitals into three-four categories as per the facilities available there. The cost of room rent, etc. can be fixed accordingly. But it is important that a decision in this regard be taken immediately, as the number of cases is increasing with each passing day,” Atul Goyal, president of URJA, an association of RWAs in the city, said. It is not just the cost of per day stay which the residents want the government to control, they say that hospitals shouldn’t charge patients for the Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits either. BS Vohra, the president of East Delhi RWAs joint front, said, “This is not the time for hospitals to make a profit. The PPE kits are for the safety of their staff. They shouldn’t charge patients for them. We request the government to provide PPE kits to hospitals.”Dr Girish Tyagi, the president of Delhi Medical Association, said, “This is an emergency. The government should discuss with doctors and private hospitals and devise a formula for the cost of treatment in the private setup, which is agreeable to all.”When asked about the matter, a senior Delhi government official said, “There are 3,800 beds in government hospitals, of which one-third are occupied. The facility in government hospitals is free of cost. Moreover, we have passed an order today (May 29) wherein five hotels have been attached to five hospitals to increase the capacity and have capped the cost per day. Also, we have created isolation facilities in 10 hotels.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/rwas-demand-cap-on-covid-19-treatment-in-private-hospitals/story-85oT2iZHKbNTDEvapVVEXJ.html
30-05-2020||Delhi||Gyms, salon owners seek govt nod to open shops from June 1||With the fourth phase of the lockdown set to end on May 31, gyms, fitness centres and salon owners’ associations have written to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal urging him to allow the reopening of these ventures from June 1, but with strict safety precautions in place. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe associations as well as app-based beauty and wellness service providers have shared a long list of measures that they are ready to take in line with social distancing norms once they are allowed to open shop. This includes downloading of the Aarogya Setu app by both clients and staff, PPE kits for all staff members, turning away walk-in customers, using disposable and sterilised equipment, and sanitisation of the gym exercising area every 45 minutes, among others. There are an estimated 5,500 gyms and over 5,000 salons registered across the city, as per these associations. “We have written to the CM as well as to Delhi labour minister Gopal Rai to consider reopening gyms, fitness studios and salons from next month. We have been suffering losses. We have a complete strategy in place to open shop while maintaining social distancing and ensuring safety of customers,” said Chirag Sethi, vice-president, Delhi Gym Association. Some of these measures, he said, including deploying staff in PPE kits at the entry of shops for thermal screening of clients, maintaining a minimum of six feet between machines and disinfecting equipment every 45 minutes. “We will request people to get new memberships and book slots online,” Sethi said. Currently, gyms and salons are closed in Delhi, as per the Delhi-specific guidelines for the fourth phase of the lockdown. In several cities, including neighbouring Gurugram, salons and barbershops have opened since May 3, during the third phase of the lockdown. A senior Delhi government official said, “A decision on the matter will be taken by the government after the Centre issues the new set of guidelines for the period from June 1.” Meenakshi Dutt, vice president, Delhi Salons Association, said they have written a number of letters to the CM and the deputy CM to allow the opening of salons given that the retail and wholesale markets have been allowed to open with restrictions. “Salons and parlours in Delhi employ around 3 lakh people, most of whom come from modest backgrounds. They have been jobless for almost two months and are surviving on 50% salaries. For how long can all of us survive without work with rents and bills to pay? We are ready with a standard operating procedure (SOP) to reopen the shops keeping everyone’s safety in mind,” Dutt said. She said all salons have been asked to impart at least a week’s training to staff before reopening. “Also, we will ensure clients and staff download the Aarogya Setu app and keep their bluetooth on, only after which they will be allowed entry. Walk-in customers will not be allowed and prior appointments will be mandatory. Disposable kits will be used for each customer and the equipment will be sanitised after use,” she said. Brijesh Goyal, convenor, Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) trade and industry wing, said he had also received requests from these sectors and will be sending a recommendation to the government in this regard. “Most of these establishments run out of rented properties with high rents and maintenance bills to pay. Besides, they employ a large number of both skilled and unskilled workers,” Goyal said.App-based service providers such as Urban Company (formerly Urban Clap) too have appealed to the government to allow restarting of services. “We have appealed to the Delhi government on multiple occasions to allow us to resume at-home beauty and wellness services. We believe, in the near term, customers will be keener to have services delivered to them at home rather than stepping out. We have in place a comprehensive set of protocols for providing these services. We will not be catering to containment zones,” said Mukund Kulashekaran, SVP Beauty and Wellness Vertical, Urban Company.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/gyms-salon-owners-seek-govt-nod-to-open-shops-from-june-1/story-KGd2T2ZmE9Z7VcbvlXWzFK.html
30-05-2020||City||Two floors of Civic Centre building shut after two North corporation staffers test Covid-positive||New Delhi: Two floors of the Civic Centre building were sealed after two employees of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation tested Covid-19 positive, a civic official said on Friday.The Civic Centre, near Ramlila Ground in central Delhi, houses the headquarters of North and South Delhi civic bodies.Ira Singhal, deputy commissioner and the North Corporation’s spokesperson said two employees tested Covid-19 positive on Thursday, and the 14th and 18th floors of the building were sealed on the same day. “The floors of the building were sealed to contain the virus spread. All employees on these floors have been advised to work from home for two days. These floors will be opened on Monday after being properly sanitised,” Singhal said.Meanwhile, three more employees of the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) on Friday tested Covid-19 positive, taking the total number of cases there recorded over the last three days to nine.Over the last two months, a total of 12 cases have been reported from the NDMC. The administration sealed its Sansad Marg headquarters on Thursday.Meanwhile, Dr Rajeev Sood, dean, Atal Bihari Vajpayee Institute of Medical Sciences and RML hospital has been diagnosed with Covid-19 and has been admitted at Max hospital, Saket.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-floors-of-civic-centre-building-shut-after-two-north-corporation-staffers-test-covid-positive/story-gvezN4HOpPdhkcQMPw0cxK.html
30-05-2020||Chandigarh||2,932 e-challans issued for speeding in 25 days of lockdown in Chandigarh||Since May 4, when the curfew was lifted in the city and people were allowed to drive, the Chandigarh traffic police have issued 2,932 traffic violation information slips (TVIS) or e-challans for speeding.The challaning drive began promptly on May 5. The traffic police used the three recently-acquired automatic number plate recognition (ANPR) systems to issue the challans.The machines read the number plate and the speed of the vehicle before issuing a challan. After the 7pm restrictions on traffic movement are lifted, these will be used at night as well. The device can be installed on a tripod or placed in a vehicle. It is light-weight and can be installed at different locations.Taking to Twitter, deputy inspector general of police (DIG, traffic) Shashank Anand said, “It is a myth that it takes 21 days to change a habit. Some people surely need more time,” commenting on how people were still speeding despite not getting to drive between March 24 and May 4.30% OF TOTAL SPEEDING CHALLANS OF 2019 ISSUED IN JUST 24 DAYSIn just 24 days, the ANPR systems have already issued 30% of the total 8,712 challans that were issued for speeding in 2019. DIG Anand said these machines were being used before the lockdown to train the operators, but this was the first time they were being used to challan.The e-challans, however, haven’t been sent by post to the defaulters yet. Speaking about this, deputy superintendent of police (DSP, traffic) Kewal Krishan said, “We have only been sending text messages about the e-challans.” He added that they have tied up with the postal department to send the remaining challans via speed post. Compounding fees for speeding offences is ₹1,000. The driving licence of the offender is also suspended for three months. The department, for now, is only processing challans related to breaking lockdown restrictions and social distancing rules where vehicles are being impounded.DIG Anand said a portal to start online challan payment will be launched shortly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2-932-e-challans-issued-for-speeding-in-25-days-of-lockdown-in-chandigarh/story-2m8fXHeDqhLK89GzogM2HJ.html
30-05-2020||Chandigarh||Parents continue to protest against collection of school fee in Chandigarh||Parents protested outside Aashiana Public School, Sector 46, and Saupin’s School, Sector 32, here on Friday, questioning collection of fee despite classes being suspended owing to the Covid-19 lockdown.Around six similar protests have been witnessed in Chandigarh over the past last week.The protesting parents said they could not afford to pay the school fee as their economic condition was constantly deteriorating due to loss of jobs amid the lockdown.They alleged that schools were also charging them for ACs, electricity, etc., even when they were closed.Nitin Goyal, president, Chandigarh Parents’ Association, said, “Due to the negligence of the UT administration and the greed of the school managements, parents have been forced to come out on the streets.”He added, “As no reprieve has been given to the parents, mass litigation is the next plan of action. Till the pendency of the issue, the fee payments will be held back. No stone will be left unturned and the matter will be taken to every administrative and judicial machinery, till a favourable result is reached.”Monica Sharma, principal, Ashiana Public School, Sector 46, refused to comment and the director of the school did not respond to the queries.“I just told them that our fee structure was within the limits of the education department’s order. They did not wish to engage in any discussion or dialogue,” said Amarbir Singh Sidhu, director, Saupin’s School.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/parents-continue-to-protest-against-collection-of-school-fee-in-chandigarh/story-JrNySXRBJYQSxBSqstzbRI.html
30-05-2020||Chandigarh||Govt, aided schools in Chandigarh to remain closed till June 7||The UT education department on Friday decided that government and government-aided schools in Chandigarh will remain closed till June 7. A committee has also been constituted to decide whether to reopen the schools or extend vacations after this. The one-week extension of summer break comes two days before the schools were to resume operations after remaining closed for over two months in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. This is the third time since the lockdown that the summer break has been extended. On May 18, district education officer Alka Mehta had released an order instructing that the summer vacations will be extended in UT schools till May 31.The move impacts over one lakh students of 123 government and eight government-aided schools in Chandigarh. Initially, the breaks were announced from April 14 to May 14. The order had stated that schools will make up for the lost time during the extended vacation by working on second Saturdays (usually a holiday) from August 2020 to January 2021. COMMITTEE TO SUBMIT REPORT BY JUNE 4The committee formed by UT to decide on the matter will go through the fresh guidelines released by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on the fifth phase of the countrywide lockdown, if extended, and prepare a report on phased opening of schools. The report is to be submitted to the education department by June 4, 2020. .The committee has 10 members, including deputy director 1 and 2, district education officer, deputy district education officer 1 and 2, subject expert commerce, principals of Government Model Senior Secondary School, Manimajra, GMSSS Sector 33 and Sector 15. The committee is set to meet on June 1 at the office of deputy director, school education.Director school education Rubinderjit Singh Brar said, “The further instructions from the ministry of human resource development on easing the lockdown are expected on June 1. Keeping in mind the circumstances, we have extended the vacations for another week. A committee has also been constituted to look into the opening of schools. It will look into the guidelines from the Centre, neighbouring states and local conditions based on which a decision will be made on whether to reopen the schools.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/govt-aided-schools-in-chandigarh-to-remain-closed-till-june-7/story-fASG6GEo5i9NkNV42Sh1SP.html
30-05-2020||Gurugram||FIR against landlord for asking Covid-19 positive tenant to vacate||The police lodged an FIR against a landlord in the Chakkarpur area on Friday, after he allegedly asked his tenant, who had tested Covid-19 positive, to vacate the house. The action was taken against the landlord under Section 51B of the Disaster Management Act and sections 188, 269 and 270 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The FIR was lodged in at the Sector 29 police station.The complaint was filed by one Ajay Kumar, who is the driver of a private hospital doctor. He was staying in the Chakkarpur area on rent. Taking cognisance of the incident, Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner directed the Jitender Kumar, sub-divisional magistrate to take action.According to the press statement issued by the district administration, Kumar was in contact with his brother-in-law, who lives in the same building and had earlier tested Covid-19 positive. Kumar got himself tested and was found to be Covid-19 positive as well. Doctors advised him home isolation. The landlord asked Kumar to vacate the house, after which he had to leave, along with his children, for his brother’s place in Nangloi, Delhi.According to officials, Kumar is currently admitted at a hospital in Delhi.A police official privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said, “The FIR was registered against the landlord on the complaint of district administration authorities. We have initiated a probe. The landlord is yet to be arrested.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/fir-against-landlord-for-asking-covid-19-positive-tenant-to-vacate/story-gPmtIiLKhVDujde4zUDBbN.html
30-05-2020||Gurugram||Authorities identify 79 key waterlogging points in Gurugram||As many as 79 key waterlogging points have been identified across the city each of which will be monitored by CCTV cameras to prevent flooding during the monsoon, a press release issued by the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) on Friday said.On Friday, officials of the district administration, MCG, and Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA), Haryana Shahri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP), and Gurugram police met at the PWD rest house in Civil Lines to discuss monsoon preparedness.It was decided in the meeting that all of the 79 identified waterlogging spots will be monitored through CCTV cameras and different officers will be given the responsibility of managing these spots. The meeting was attended by MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh, deputy commissioner Amit Khatri, GMDA chief engineer Pradeep Kumar, and MCG chief engineers ND Vashisht and Raman Sharma. “A joint team of civic officials will be visiting all the 79 points within the next four or five days and will check their current drainage condition. Depending on their condition we will either repair, upgrade, or establish new stormwater drains,” said Raman Sharma, chief engineer, MCG. The 79 waterlogging points include Hero Honda Chowk, Narsinghpur, Vatika Chowk, Subhash Chowk, IFFCO Chowk, and AIT Chowk.The decision to monitor waterlogging points comes at a time when both GMDA and MCG officials are running out of time to clean drains across the city. Due to the coronavirus outbreak, the process for floating tenders for cleaning stormwater drains only commenced in mid-April. There are many areas in the city for which tenders are yet to be allocated to contractors. Even in areas where tenders have been allocated, work is progressing at an extremely slow pace as contractors are facing workforce shortages as many migrant workers have returned to their home towns.In Friday’s meeting, which was chaired by VS Kundu, chief executive officer (CEO) of GMDA, MCG, and GMDA officials also decided to work together for monsoon preparedness and for dealing with waterlogging in the city. They will also form a WhatsApp group to share information rapidly.“A flood control room will be set up soon and an adequate workforce and machinery will be made available for it. Officials have been instructed to constitute a rapid action team,” said Kundu, as per the official release.On Wednesday, HT had reported that the GMDA is planning to set up a flood control room near the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway. The exact location for the flood control room is yet to be decided even as tenders worth ₹41 lakh have been floated for it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/authorities-identify-79-key-waterlogging-points-in-gurugram/story-yOZ9Mx98xqpLf9MKlrDFeO.html
30-05-2020||Noida||NMRC gears up to resume Aqua Line operations||The Noida Metro Rail Corporation(NMRC) on Friday said it has started preparations in order to resume operations on the Aqua Line which connects Noida and Greater Noida. However, the NMRC—which conducted a mock drill on Friday— has not announced the date for resuming operations.“We conducted a mock drill at our stations so that our staff remains alert and ready to start operations on Aqua Line whenever the government decides to resume Metro services. We conducted the mock drill so that we could make sure all passengers follow guidelines and adhere to the standard operating procedure (SOP) while using the Metro whenever the operations start,” said Sandhya Sharma, spokesperson, NMRC. According to Metro officials, commuters will have to wear face masks and they will be screened with thermal sensors before entering the station. The Aarogya Setu mobile application will also be a must for Metro passengers. Those who do not adhere to these conditions will not be allowed to use the Metro, NMRC guidelines say.The NMRC had issued detailed guidelines on how Metro services will function after the curbs imposed during the nationwide lockdown are lifted.“The Metro services will remain suspended till May 31, and we will start operations as and when the government directives are announced in this regard,” said Sharma.The NMRC said it has directed its staff to ensure that all touchpoints are sanitised properly so that if operations start soon, passengers remain safe and are not expose to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Commuters entering NMRC premises will have to apply sanitisers on their hands, which will be made available to them after they are thermally scanned. To ensure adequate social distance, passengers will be advised to stand in queues in designated spaces on markings made one metre apart near the frisking zones, platforms and inside the train.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/nmrc-gears-up-to-resume-aqua-line-operations/story-KCd3jwmkIvFh9MzNIY52JM.html
30-05-2020||Noida||Part of ceiling collapses in Noida society, second incident in two days in GB Nagar||Two days after a portion of a ceiling collapsed at a flat in a Greater Noida West high-rise, a similar incident took place in a society in Noida Sector 77 on Friday, leaving residents of the society worried about safety over poor quality construction.The Friday’s incident was reported from Prateek Wisteria society under Sector 49 police jurisdiction around 9am when a part of the ceiling at a flat collapsed.“I received minor injury to my shoulder during the collapse,” said Chitra Rekha Singh, the flat occupant.According to her, a collapse had also taken place in her house in November last year after which the society management had taken care of the repairs. Although the family had pointed other weak spots that time, nothing was done about them leading to the Friday’s collapse, Singh said.The family, however, does not want to take up the matter with local police and are content with only the repairs by the management. Noida police officials said that they are aware of the case but cannot take legal action unless the family files a formal complaint.Surprisingly, the developer of the society denied the incident. “Nothing of the sort has happened, and we have anyways given the handover to the Apartment Owners’ Association (AOA). This fall is in their purview,” said Prashant Tiwari, CMD, Prateek Group.On May 27, a similar collapse had occurred at a flat in Ajnara Homes society in Greater Noida West in which a seven-year-old boy had sustained head injuries. The family had filed a case with the Bisrakh police after which three people from the developer and management end were arrested.The Friday’s case has residents worried for long term safety in the society.“There are visible cracks and damage in other flats and balconies. Time and again we have highlighted this issue without any resolution from officials. The poor quality of construction has put the residents’ lives at risk,” said Amit Gupta, president, Prateek Wisteria AOA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/part-of-ceiling-collapses-in-noida-sector-77-society-second-incident-in-two-days-in-gb-nagar/story-Naz3RAVEba6hjgLoQmPbxM.html
30-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Vigilance Bureau bids farewell to 8 officers on superannuation||The Punjab Vigilance Bureau (VB) organised a party at its headquarters here on Friday to bid farewell to eight officers on their retirement.A spokesperson of the VB said additional director general of police-cum-chief director BK Uppal felicitated the officers. Only senior officers of the VB and the superannuating officials were present on the occasion, he added.The ADGP gave mementoes to retiring officials -- Paramjit Singh Goraya, Swaran Singh, Ravinder Kumar Bakshi, joint director prosecution Madan Lal Solanki, superintendent Gurbachan Singh, senior assistant Saroj Sharma, assistant sub-inspector of police (ASI) Narinder Kumar and ASI Santosh Kumari.He said the bureau will always remember the valuable services rendered by them towards the state as well as the public.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-vigilance-bureau-bids-farewell-to-8-officers-on-superannuation/story-tXQbVRx5yte5rLMSKZ8OjP.html
30-05-2020||Noida||UP government signs MoU with realtors to employ migrants who returned to their home towns||The Uttar Pradesh government on Friday signed a memorandum of understanding(MoU) with the National Real Estate Development Council (NAREDCO) in order to employ at 2.5 lakh migrants who have returned home from different states. The Uttar Pradesh government wants to create jobs for daily wage earners, who have lost their livelihood due to the nationwide lockdown imposed on March 25 to prevent the spread of Covid-19. The Uttar Pradesh NAREDCO president RK Arora, along with other developers, signed an MoU with the UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath in Lucknow on Friday morning. A delegation of developers from Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway areas met the chief minister and assured him that they will employ the migrants, who have returned to their respective home towns from other states since March 25. Apart from NAREDCO, other industrial bodies and organizations also signed MoUs with the state government to provide at least 7.5 lakh jobs to these migrants.“We are committed to provide jobs to migrants, who have returned home from different states. We have also formed a migrant commission for that purpose. The government with the help of industry leaders will employ all these migrants,” said Alok Sinha, agricultural production commissioner, Uttar Pradesh.According to NAREDCO, the developers will employ 60% of out of 2.5 lakh migrants in various construction sites in Noida, Greater Noida, Yamuna Expressway and Ghaziabad.“The remaining migrants will be employed in cities like Meerut, Lucknow and other districts. We will restart construction work at our sites from next month as we are busy with mobilising the workforce. The UP government will help the developers to restart the work by accepting the demands regarding the financial issues,” said RK Arora president UP NAREDCO.The developers in Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway have demanded that the government should stop charging stamp fee from buyers who want to purchase flat in the next one year, give additional time to complete the under-construction flats, postpone the payment of monthly instalment of housing land cost, and other benefits.“Apart from these benefits, the government should also restructure the business loans, which have been taken by the developers for their housing projects,” said Harendra Yadav, a member of NAREDCO.The UP government has formed a committee that is looking into the demands of the developers.“The committee will soon take a decision on these demands made by the builders so that they can restart work and revive the business,” said a UP government official, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/up-government-signs-mou-with-realtors-to-employ-migrants-who-returned-to-their-home-towns/story-GCKbuW4kYBi4jPfYObFZJJ.html
30-05-2020||Noida||Noida reports sixth death from Covid-19; nine new positive cases take tally to 387||A nonagenarian patient from Sector 40, who had been admitted at Sharda Hospital on May 26, died of Covid-19 on Friday, taking the death toll due to the coronavirus disease to six in Gautam Budh Nagar, health officials said.The elderly man was found positive at a private laboratory, the officials said, adding that he died from severe acute respiratory infection with severe sepsis.  However, 28 patients, including an 82-year-old woman and two employees of Zee Media group, were discharged after being cured from two different hospitals in the district, the officials said.After coming out of the isolation wad of Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS), Satya Rani, the octogenarian, said, “Though I have high blood pressure, it was the support of the doctors’ team and medical staff that I got cured from the deadly infection. During the 14-day stay here, I have learnt that sanitization and social distancing with optimistic approach can defeat the pandemic.” Meanwhile, the overall tally of Covid-19 cases in Gautam Budh Nagar went up to 387 on Friday, with reports of nine new positive cases in the district. District surveillance officer Dr Sunil Dohre said that of the nine new Covid-19 cases, two patients are from Sector XU-3 in Greater Noida, while one each has tested positive from Swasthya Vihar in Greater Noida, Naya Gaon (Sector 81), Hoshiyarpur and Sector 45. “The remaining included one each from sectors 22 and 50. Among the nine new positive cases today, there are six males and three females. Till Friday evening, the number of positive cases reported in the district is 387. Of them, 291 people have been discharged from different hospitals, while six patients have so far lost their lives. We now have only 90 active cases,” Dohre said.He further said that while four patients, including the 82-year-old woman and two employees of Zee, were discharged from GIMS, other 24 patients were released from Sharda Hospital after being cured.Dohre said that health camps were organised in 12 sensitive places, including Mamura, Nithari, Sarfabad, Harola, and sectors 8, 9 and 10, in the district on Wednesday. “A total of 706 people were screened today and 18 of them, who had symptoms of fever, have been referred to the district hospital,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-reports-sixth-death-from-covid-19-nine-new-positive-cases-take-tally-to-387/story-3Tl79FIIwHlH5YgFWvDkJL.html
30-05-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University syndicate meet today: Fee hike, appointment of DSWs on agenda||Proposal for fee hike for new entrants and appointment of the new dean students’ welfare (DSW) and DSW (women) are among the items of agenda that will be tabled in the syndicate meeting of Panjab University on Saturday.As many as 28 items of agenda will be discussed in the meeting.PROPOSED FEE HIKEThe members will take a decision on a hike of 5% for the fees of traditional courses and 7.5% for self-financed courses for new entrants, recommended by a university panel in February.The varsity students had already expressed their discontent over the proposed fee hike this year owing to the lockdown. A few student bodies had even written to the varsity opposing the proposed hike.APPOINTMENT OF DSWThe syndicate members will also decide on the appointment of the new DSW and DSW (woman) as the terms of current DSW Emanual Nahar and DSW (woman) Neena Capalash will end on May 31.The vice-chancellor has recommended the name of Devinder Singh of department of laws for DSW but many members are of the opinion that the name is not likely to get the syndicate’s nod.TENTATIVE ACADEMIC CALENDAR FOR 2020-21Also, a tentative academic calendar for the 2020-21 academic session will be tabled in the meeting. The calendar has been drafted by the varsity keeping in view the Covid-19 situation which had resulted in the suspension of the classwork. According to the calendar, the varsity exams will be held from July 7 to 30.INTRODUCTION OF NEW COURSESMoreover, a decision on the introduction of new courses from the 2020-21 academic session will be taken during the meeting. Proposals for introduction of eight new courses will be tabled for discussion.CALL OF ACTION AGAINST THREE EMPLOYEESThe members of the syndicate will take a call on disciplinary action to be taken against three employees of the varsity who were found negligent of duties during the 2016 municipal election.The syndicate members had last met in March as no meeting was held in April.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-syndicate-meet-today-fee-hike-appointment-of-dsws-on-agenda/story-VlLMo417kM2toHXoQbEv8J.html
30-05-2020||Chandigarh||Two women go missing in Pinjore, Chandimandir||Two FIRs have been lodged at Pinjore and Chandimandir after parents of two missing women approached the police.The first case was registered under Section 346 (wrongful confinement in secret) of the Indian Penal Code at the Chandimandir police station on May 27. Complainant Ranbir Singh told the police that he was a labourer and had five daughters. One of his daughters, who was 18 years old, was a tailor. He said on May 26, she left home around 10am, but had not returned since.In a similar case registered on May 28 at Pinjore, Narender Kumar Sharma told the police that the youngest of his four daughters, who was 24 years old, had not returned home since 6am that day. Police said efforts to trace the women were on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/girls-go-missing-two-firs-registered-at-pinjore-chandimandir/story-obgm3wEDCNPhnCZtTgLa5K.html
30-05-2020||City||11 booked for killing milkman, injuring another in Panchkula||Police on Friday booked 11 men for attacking two people and killing one of them at Manakpur Thakur Das village in Pinjore here.The accused were identified as Chunni, alias Kuldeep, Happy, Gurmeet, alias Gummi, Kichu, Kulvir, Rangpal, Lovely Jagga, Sattu, Achchar, Pillu Raju and Gunga.The incident took place on the night of May 28, when cousins Gurjeet and Gurwinder, who are milkmen, were on their way to Manakpur Thakur Das village after supplying milk. Gurjeet Singh, 30, told the police that they were on their bikes and at around 7.30pm, when they reached a little ahead of Gugga Marhi, a white Alto car with five men and 10-12 youths on bikes came from the other side and blocked their way.Gurjeet said the men attacked them with swords, sticks and sharp-edged weapons. After they fell unconscious, the group left. A resident of the village took the injured to General Hospital in Sector 6, Panchkula, where Gurwinder was declared brought dead.A case was registered against the accused under Sections 120B (criminal conspiracy), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object), 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder), 341 (wrongful restraint), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code.Police said it was a case of old enmity. The deceased is survived by a 9-year-old son, wife and elderly parents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/11-booked-for-killing-man-injuring-another-in-panchkula/story-UTzRUM1AXciuEyB8N5AcIK.html
30-05-2020||City||HT Chandigarh Readers’ Take: In a lockdown, set joy, creativity free in children||MEDITATION, YOGA CAN HELPThe Covid-19 outbreak has disrupted people’s lives around the globe. Parents should try helping their children sail through this dark phase peacefully and calmly. It is essential for parents to remain patient and look after the needs of their children. This will result in strengthening of their relationship and also enable them to work together as a team. Parents should involve children in various household activities instead of criticising them for not doing anything. It is important and advisable for parents to attentively listen to their children and talk to them about things in a very constructive and optimistic manner. Make it a point to never overreact to anything annoying that the child might say or do. Try and build the child’s confidence by rewarding them for little achievements. However, make sure it’s not a bribe . Meditation and yogic exercises will also help. A parent is the only force that can help a child develop a positive attitude towards life.Priyanaaz VirkREFRESH OLD MEMORIES, TELL THEM STORIESAs parents we need to understand that the present scenario is not easy for children to deal with as they are stuck indoors with limited physical activity, outings and contact with friends. So, first of all be, empathetic. Their boundless energy can be channelised by adding a variety of activities in their daily schedule. Apart from online school, hobby or tuition classes they can be encouraged to do age- appropriate household chores like watering plants, filling up water bottles and so on. A physical workout time can be set. Revisit old memories by going over old photographs and videos and share the stories associated with them. This may be a good time to nurture the parent-child bond as there are limited outside influences and they are more receptive. With positivity and patience we can sail through these times smoothly.Roopali Virk, Mohali SIMPLE ACTIVITIES HAVE MOST VALUEChildren, who are compelled to remain at home are the most affected during the lockdown. The rhythm and routine of going to school, meeting friends,the bonhomie of chirping children in the school bus has a thrill of its own. At this crucial time, parents have to handle them with care, patience,love and empathy. They must retain their cool. They should plan simple/interesting activities at home,viz locating places/countries on the atlas and look up words in the dictionary. The winners should be given small gifts. There could be fun games like imitating a favourite aunt or family member. Seek their help in laying the table or heating the dishes in the microwave and ask them for suggestions in resolving family matters.Usha Verma, ChandigarhTREAT CHILDREN LIKE FRIENDSParents should first talk to children about safety and hygiene to combat Covid-19. They should be informed about how the disease spreads but assured that it can be controlled adequate precautions are taken. Youngsters should be kept busy with indoor games. They should lend a helping hand in sorting out household chores. Only a limited time should be allocated to them to watch TV or work on the computer. Parents should treat children like friends, discuss the news and current events with them and tell them stories. Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliENGAGE THEM WITH READING, WRITING AND ARTPrimary school children are forgetting the art of writing. Parents need to sit with them and engage them in reading and writing besides teaching them drawing and painting. Ten to 15 -year-old children have learned enough to build on. They can also be involved in mental games like scrabble, chess, crosswords and Sudoku besides watching Discovery Channel for learning more about the world after study hours. However, children who have picked up unhealthy habits need to be handled with love, understanding and affection and treated by an expert counsellor. Try to involve them in doing household chores, besides cooking new dishes. Ensure all the family members eat together and encourage them to wash the dishes and cutlery they have used. This will not just ease the burden of household work on parents, but will also make the children self-dependent.Gurdev Singh, MohaliGIVE CHILDREN ADEQUATE MENTAL SPACEIn this hour of crisis, it is imperative that the parents give adequate mental space to their children instead of nagging them all the time. Help children accept the current vicissitudes of life. Simultaneously, it is essential that the teachers, too, do not overburden the students with homework. Instead, they must aid the children in keeping up with their respective syllabus. Only with sustained support and guidance of parents and teachers can our children evolve as mentally stable, brighter and progressive beings in the longer run. No tension and collective action ought to be the norm of the day.Surbhi NegiSPEND QUALITY TIME WITH THEMParents should set out a routine for their children and not allow them to go out when the Covid-19 infection is spreading. They should give the children some quality time and play with them and also ensure they remain safe. Avinash GoyalPARENTS AND CHILDREN CAN EXPLORE NEW INTERESTS TOGETHERParents need to view the lockdown time positively - a godsend opportunity to spend quality time with the children, cooking and eating, playing and exercising and reading and watching TV together, which would not have been possible in normal times. Both children and parents can help each other explore new skills such as singing, learning musical instruments, painting, baking and gardening. Parents with teenage children should ensure that in addition to requesting them to do day-to-day chores, this is the apt time for taking up creative projects like reading, writing, flower arrangements, a plethora of hobbies that every heart wants to take up at some point of time. Intellectual and philosophical discussions on human values across the dining table should also be initiated in these times when people are experiencing mental trauma because of the spread of coronavirus. Children should also be made aware of the importance of social responsibility. That rich and poor classes can happily coexist in society if assets are shared and the lives of the poor are made easy.Premila Verma, PanchkulaUNDERSTAND CHILD’S PSYCHOLOGY AND ACT ACCORDINGLYParents need to spend quality time with their children. They should narrate stories with moral teachings, share positive experiences and inculcate good values in the children. It’s important to understand the child’s psychology and act accordingly, but with love, affection and care. This is the good time to utilise and channelise their energies effectively. They should be kept busy pursuing their interests and kept away from social media and electronic gadgets.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliPRAYERS, RELIGIOUS SERMONS HELPThe lockdown has turned to be a blessing in disguise for many parents , as they are able to spend more time with their children now. Most of the behavioural problems in youngsters stem from loneliness and upbringing in crèches or day care centres during the formative years of childhood . Parents should utilise the lockdown period in tending to the needs of the children according to their aptitude and preferences. From morning prayers, religious sermons to storytelling, games, puzzle solving, poetry and jokes, try to keep your children engaged all the time. Yogic exercises should be a part of the child’s daily routine. Breathing exercises and meditation can treat mental illness to some extent. Anil Vinayak, Amritsar MOTIVATIONAL TALKS, BOOKS SHOULD BE MADE A PART OF THEIR LIVESParents should ensure they lead by example and stay positive at a time when the Covid-19 pandemic has weakened the economic structure of the world and affected the mental health of many people. All of us should stay connected with each other to boost our morale. Besides the education of children, parents should make sure they continue with indoor activities such as yoga and gym and help their parents with household chores. Motivational talks (let them watch YouTube, videos) and books should also be made a part of their lives.Vikas Sharma, Ludhiana||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/our-take-in-a-lockdown-set-joy-creativity-free-in-children/story-NzwuoJECM1TqYuNjwXErgM.html
30-05-2020||Chandigarh||Student organisations oppose Panjab University’s plan to conduct examinations in July||After the Panjab University (PU) announced guidelines for conducting the semester examinations in July this year, various student organisations of the varsity have issued statements opposing the move. Students For Society (SFS), in their statement, said only partial information had been released leading to confusion among the students. They added that it was not clear whether the hostels that were converted into Covid wards would be free soon. “Where will the hostellers stay during the course of the examinations?” the members asked in the statement.National Students Union of India (NSUI)’s PU president Nikhil Narmeta said, “How can the university assure that norms will be followed outside the examination centres and students coming from other states will be quarantined first after coming here? We have been raising our concerns, but we are not getting any response.”SFI CONDUCTS SURVEYThe PU unit of Students Federation of India (SFI) conducted a survey in which 4,036 students of the university participated. Over 83% students thought the university was not well-equipped to protect the students against coronavirus, and 79.6% students said that examinations should not be held. “Majority of the students are against conducting examinations in July,” said Abhilash Rajkhowa of SFI.SATH, another student organisation of PU, demanded that examinations should not be held for this semester, and that any decision in this regard should be taken after consulting the student bodies and educational experts.SENATOR WRITES TO V-CMeanwhile, a PU senator, Jagdish Mehta, has written to the vice-chancellor seeking cancellation of all semester examinations. “In this time of fear, anxiety and insecurity, students are not mentally prepared to appear in examinations,” Mehta said in the letter.President of Panjab University Campus Students Council (PUCSC) Chetan Chaudhary said, “I have discussed the matter with the controller of examinations, and have been assured that examinations will be conducted only when a safe situation prevails.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/student-organisations-oppose-panjab-university-s-plan-to-conduct-examinations-in-july/story-Si3TyyEnIGylpzrP5FDnwJ.html
30-05-2020||Pune||Pune reports 10 deaths and 242 Covid-19 positive cases in a day||The city on Friday reported ten deaths and 242 fresh cases of Covid-19 positive infection, taking the count of progressive positive cases to 6,093 and death count in the city to 301, and two deaths from rural Pune. Out of the 2,340 active cases in the city, 166 are in critical condition. The count of those cured and discharged went up to 3,450, out of which 186 were discharged on Friday. Also, 1,179 samples were taken for Covid-19 testing on Friday, taking the count of total samples tested yet in the city to over 47,000.The ten deaths include five reported from Sassoon General Hospital which include a 56-year-old male residing at Pandavnagar who was also suffering from hypertension. Another 56-year-old male from Ganjpeth who was suffering from diabetes, hypertension, hepatitis and morbid obesity, and 87- year-old male from Ramoshiwadi, Gokhalenagar who was suffering from hepatitis and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and another 68-year-old female residing at Yerawada who was also suffering from hepatitis and pancreatitis. The fifth death reported from the hospital was of a 60-year-old female residing at Shirur and was suffering from diabetes and ischemic heart disease (IHD).The other deaths include a 72-year-old male from Dahanukar colony, Kothrud reported from Symbiosis hospital who was also suffering from hypertension, diabetes and herpes infection. Another 61-year-old female from Ravivar peth reported dead from Sahyadri hospital who was also suffering from diabetes, hypertension and IHD. A 72-year-old female from Kalyaninagar reported from Jehangir hospital who was also suffering from diabetes, hypertension and hypothyaroidism with renal failure and a 62-year-old male residing at Parvati was reported dead from Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital. He was suffering from hypertension.A 58-year-old male was reported dead from YCM hospital, the second reported from rural. He was living in Junnar and was also suffering from acute respiratory failure with acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) and bilateral pneumonia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-reports-10-deaths-and-242-covid-19-positive-cases-on-thursday/story-FOd8iR9zUoNyQh3qRI1JkM.html
30-05-2020||Pune||Covid-19: Maharashtra’s centuries-old ‘palkhi’ tradition to mark a departure from the past||On the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic, the much-revered palkhis (palanquins) of the pre-eminent saints of Maharashtra, Sant Dnyaneshwar and Tukaram maharaj, will reach Pandharpur by air instead of the annual pilgrimage on foot. This would mark a major departure for the Palkhi tradition of the last seven centuries.Following a meeting here on Friday, Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said, in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and the aggravated situation in Maharashtra, the palkhis with the silver paduka (footwear) of the saints will be carried by air to Pandharpur. This decision was announced after a meeting at the council hall here on Friday with the trustees of the temple trusts at Pandharpur, Dehu and Alandi.Every year in June, almost seven lakh to a million warkaris (pilgrims) from Maharashtra and the southern states of Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, participate in the palkhi procession. The procession embarks from the pilgrim centres of Alandi and Dehu in Pune district and the pilgrims march through the day and rest at night, reaching Pandharpur after a fortnight.Pawar said that the tradition over the centuries “would be continued this year too. However, in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the palkhis would be carried in a plane or a helicopter and not on foot.” He said the precise mode of transport would be decided after taking the weather situation into consideration as the pilgrimage takes place during the monsoons in the month of June. “If air travel is not suitable then the palkhis would be carried by bus, he said.The deputy chief minister pointed out that the Palkhi procession passes through Pune, Satara and Solapur districts all of which have been affected by Covid-19. The procession on foot would therefore not be advisable, he said.The guardian ministers of Solapur, Datta Bharne and Satara, Balasaheb Patil, respectively, agreed on the issue. On May 15, Pune Divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar had held a meeting with the temple trustees and it was decided that a final decision would be taken on Friday in Pawar’s presence. The representatives of the warkaris (pilgrims) also agreed with the decision arrived at by the state government.Divisional commissioner Mhaisekar, Pune Police commissioner K Venkatesham, district collector Naval Kishor Ram and heads of the various temple trusts were among those present at the meeting.Pawar appealed to the devout not to plan a visit to Pandharpur this year but view the ceremony on television at home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-maharashtra-s-centuries-old-palkhi-tradition-to-mark-a-departure-from-the-past/story-bk37EEyairjsqILuhivZzK.html
30-05-2020||City||Out on bail, drug peddling accused, his 3 aides held with fake currency notes||A drug peddling accused and his three accomplices were arrested with fake currency notes having a face value of Rs 1.7 lakh on Friday.The accused, identified as Bhupinder Singh of Tajpur Road, Gurdeep Singh of Bhamian Khurd, Amar Singh of Kakowal village and Tajinder Singh of Kakka village, told the police that they have already made purchases worth Rs 50,000 from petrol pumps and grocery stores using the counterfeit money.Sub-inspector Arshpreet Kaur, the Basti Jodhewal station house officer, said the accused were arrested from Jodhewal area during special checking. The SHO said Bhupinder was the kingpin of the gang. He had been earlier arrested with 10gm heroin and lodged at the Ludhiana central jail. There he had met an inmate called Vicky, who had told him about the technique of printing fake currency notes.After coming out on bail, Vicky helped Bhupinder purchase a computer, printer and other materials required for printing the fake currency. Bhupinder then brought in three others and started printing fake currency notes of Rs 200, Rs 100 and Rs 2,000, said the SHO.“the accused confessed to have spent around Rs 50,000 in counterfeit currency. They told the police they were using it on their own and not selling it to anyone but we are investigating the matter thoroughly," she said.A case has been registered against the accused at the Basti Jodhewal police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/out-on-bail-drug-peddling-accused-and-his-3-aides-held-with-fake-currency-notes/story-XE4xNNKiT5IIf7bp0IMGMP.html
30-05-2020||Delhi||Need system in place to manage night shelters: Delhi high court||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday said a system should be put in place for the maintenance of night shelters run by the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB), while stating that there is a lack of communication protocol between All India Medical Sciences (AIIMS) and the Delhi government.A bench of Justice Vipin Sanghi and Justice Rajnish Bhatnagar said this could be solved by appointing nodal officers.The court issued the order after the AIIMS counsel told the court that none of the 22 outstation patients staying in the night shelter outside the hospital, who had tested Covid positive, ever came to the hospital. The Delhi government counsel had told the court that due to the inability to contact AIIMS authorities at the relevant time, the patients were shifted to Lok Nayak hospital and Rajiv Gandhi Cancer Institute.The court was hearing a plea by a lawyer Karan Seth through his advocate Arjun Sayal, who sought better facilities for outstation patients who have been residing in the night shelter outside the hospital. On Wednesday, the court was shown videos and photographs of the night shelter, following which the court said the allegations of the petitioner were “correct”. The court, expressing displeasure, said even though “it appeared that after its last order, senior officials of DUSIB and the chief secretary of Delhi took corrective steps, there is apprehension that the situation may go back to what it was once the court stops monitoring it.It noted that though DUSIB claimed it is maintaining entry registers but these may not be maintained with any regularity or seriousness”. The bench said several NGOs and social workers are offering social service only for the love of mankind at such like night shelters.“They would be, obviously, interested in seeing that such like facilities are run efficiently and the occupants are provided the facilities and services necessary to maintain human dignity…..We, therefore, direct DUSIB to accredit NGOs and individual social workers who are associated with the night shelters, and to involve NGOs and individual social workers in the matter of supervision of such night shelters,” the court said.It directed DUSIB to ensure only patients and their immediate attendants are permitted to occupy the night shelters at AIIMS, and other night shelters in the vicinity of other government hospitals in Delhi. “All other occupants, who are not receiving treatment at the government hospital concerned, should be shifted to the other night shelters managed by DUSIB,” the bench said, posting the matter for June 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/need-system-in-place-to-manage-night-shelters-delhi-high-court/story-4fy6wiEjgMcXb8C700ZfTJ.html
30-05-2020||Jaipur||Former Rajasthan BJP chief Bhanwar Lal Sharma passes away||Veteran BJP leader and former state president Bhanwar Lal Sharma passed away on Friday, a party leader said. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot, former Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje, BJP state president Satish, Jaipur MP Ramcharan Bohra and other leaders have offered condolences. The chief minister prayed to the almighty to give strength to Sharma’s family to bear the loss. BJP state president Satish Poonia consoled Sharma’s family members at his residence and termed the death as a personal loss for him and the party. Poonia said Sharma had a major contribution in the development of the state and in strengthening the party. He believed in simplicity and never used a government bungalow or car while he was an MLA and minister, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/former-rajasthan-bjp-chief-bhanwar-lal-sharma-passes-away/story-eYnXeGS75k3rTcGQdhMHoI.html
30-05-2020||City||Paddy seeds seized from Ludhiana store fail germination tests||The paddy seeds seized from Brar seed store, located on Ferozepur Road opposite the Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), have failed the germination test.Confirming the development, chief agriculture officer Narinder Singh Benipal said, “The store was selling the seeds at inflated rates by branding them as PR 128 and PR 129 (high yielding varieties).The department conducted a germination test, which the seeds samples failed. Now, samples have been sent to PAU laboratory for gene tests.”Director (agriculture) Dr Sutantar Kumar Airi, who visited the city to check the progress in the case, said the matter was being probed and all aspects were being looked into.PAU TO OPEN DOORS TO FARMERS FOR SEED TESTINGAmid the row over the spurious seed varieties, PAU has asked farmers to get their seeds tested from the university. Vice-chancellor Baldev Singh Dhillon said farmers who wish to get their seeds tested for authenticity and quality, could visit the university. “However, it would be difficult for us assess the seedlings (peeniri),” said Dr Dhillon.The development comes a day after various farmers’ organisations and Shiromani Akali Dal’s (SAD) submitted memorandums to deputy commissioners across the state, demanding that all farmers who had been duped should be identified and given financial compensation.The matter regarding sale of spurious seeds had come to fore after a farmer had submitted a written complaint to deputy commissioner, stating that PR 128 seed was being sold at Rs 200 per kg at Brar seed store, while PAU was selling the same variety for Rs 70. Following the complaint, the deputy commissioner had directed the Ludhiana chief agriculture officer to take action. On March 11, a team of agriculture and farmers welfare department of Punjab conducted a raid and took samples of PR 128, 129 varieties, a large quantity of filled bill books and samples of all other seed varieties found in the shop. The owner was booked under Section 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code.The Vigilance Bureau has also initiated a probe in the matter on the directions of chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh.ABOUT THE SEEDSOn February 19, PAU had recommended seven new varieties of paddy for general cultivation in Punjab. These included PR 128, PR 129 and HKR 47 of rice; J 1007 of fodder maize; J 87 of groundnut; JC 12 of maize and PCB 165 of bajra. All varieties were approved during the state variety approval committee meeting, held under the chairmanship of Punjab agriculture director Suntantar Kumar Airi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/seeds-confiscated-from-store-opposite-pau-fail-germination-tests/story-1hD1i7hDb3VBmp2e6255eK.html
30-05-2020||City||Only passengers with confirmed tickets allowed on railway platform: Mohali admn||In line with the guidelines issued by the Punjab health and family welfare department, regarding people travelling by train, the Mohali administration has permitted only passengers with confirmed tickets to enter the railway platform to avoid crowding.Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said no attendants will be allowed on the platform, and while boarding all passengers must wear face masks and maintain social distancing. The passengers will undergo health screening before being allowed on the platform, and therefore, should reach the station 45 minutes before departure time.They must download the COVA app and use it to generate an e-pass for a smooth exit from the railway station on reaching their destination.If a passenger doesn’t have a mobile phone or is unable to generate the e-pass, they can show a valid ID proof, including Aaadhaar card, driving licence, voter ID or any other ID proof issued by the government.Such passengers will submit a self-declaration form to the health team deputed for screening at a designated place at the railway station. Symptomatic or high-risk passengers will be taken to a health facility for testing. All others will undergo home quarantine for 14 days, monitor their health status and report to the nearest health facility on helpline 104 in case they develop any coronavirus symptoms.Passengers with a return ticket scheduled before the completion of the home quarantine period will be allowed to return only if asymptomatic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/only-passengers-with-confirmed-tickets-allowed-on-railway-platform-mohali-admn/story-9z2Z170Psjfa8HwbSgC4GJ.html
30-05-2020||Pune||Pune’s Shedge wada comes forward to help the homeless during Covid-19 crisis||In the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, many social organisations, NGOs and individuals have come forward to help the poor and needy. One such group resides in the old Shedge wada in Shukrwar peth area, the group has been cooking and distributing food packets to the homeless for over a month.“All this started in the first week of April when we residents thought of cooking food and distributing it to the needy. Accordingly, we started the work. Residents in the wada and other well-wishers contributed funds and raw material to us. And we started cooking food daily and around 150 food packets are being distributed on a daily basis from last one-and-a-half months,” said Kalpana Shewale, a resident of Shedge wada.The property in Shukrwar peth is 70-years old and currently, houses 15 families with around 50 residents. Women, young and elderly have all contributed to the food distribution since its inception. The funds have been crowd-sourced by Shedge wada residents and also by friends and well-wishers.“The cooking of rice, vegetable and chapatis begin at around 7am. Women cut vegetables, clean, and prepare before cooking. At 8.30am the actual cooking starts, we cook masala rice one day and vegetable and chapatis on alternate days. Once the food is ready, we along with the children in the wada pack the food. Finally, at around 10am the food packets are distributed to beggars, homeless and needy people on Bajirao road,” said Lata Bhekare, a resident of the wada. The team of women who prepare and cook the food daily consists of Kalpana Shewale, Lata Bhekare, Hirabai Shilamkar, Rekha Jadhav, Sulochana Aadhav, Indu Jadhav, Rohini Sarde, Baby Mohite, Rajashree Bhagwat and Savita Kadam.Men and young children of the wada contribute to the initiative by taking part in the distribution of the food packets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/shedge-wada-s-helping-hand-for-the-homeless/story-LD6sdr2NJsEjxHjzDJwKoJ.html
30-05-2020||Pune||Post-lockdown, cash flows, supply chain and labour shortage are top issues for industries: MCCIA||A survey conducted by the Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Agriculture (MCCIA) here has revealed that supply chain issues, delayed cash flows and labour issues are among the major concerns of medium, small and micro-enterprises (MSME) in the Pune industrial belt, a week after the lockdown was lifted for industries.This second survey of 155 MSMEs consisting of manufacturing and service industries, was conducted a week after the lockdown was opened, while the first survey was conducted a month ago. Prashant Girbane, director general, Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Agriculture (MCCIA) said, “The second survey, conducted in the week over three to four working days revealed interesting aspects about the top three issues. The survey revealed that 69% of the industries reported that supply chain issues and delayed cash flows were a major concern while 39% (61/155) said that labour issues (like migrant labourers going back and local manpower refusing to come back to work) was a major concern.Elaborating on these points, he said that cash flow was a major concern. While credit guarantees and liquidity measures had been taken by the central government, transmissions were happening through the bank but needed to be expedited. “The weighted average of the pending receivables of the MSMEs surveyed was between 2cr to 3cr, which includes receivables from the private as well as the public sector,” he said. With regards to supply chain, while movement of goods transport had been allowed, there were issues related to raw material availability and finished goods delivery as parts of the economy were still under red zone in Mumbai and Pune, Girbane said.On the labour front he said, 40 % of the companies had labour issues. “The government needs to ensure that the employment bureau gets more support and prominence so that workers will find it easier to join industry as well as help facilitate the return of the migrant workers with transport and health care,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/post-lockdown-cash-flows-supply-chain-and-labour-shortage-are-top-issues-for-industries-mccia/story-hUPjim71jqZ4hxat1dxXdN.html
30-05-2020||City||Mohali gurdwara president booked for assault||The president of Gurdwara Kalghidhar Sahib in Phase 4 and six others have been booked for assaulting a Phase 2 resident on May 22.Complainant Jaspal Singh, a resident of Phase 2, said he had gone to the gurdwara to pay obeisance when he saw that the gurdwara president Jatinderpal Singh, his aide Amarjit Singh and others were not allowing a group of jathas to perform the kirtan. When Jaspal asked, the gurdwara president and his aides said that they had booked another jatha for the gurdwara. “When I tried to reason this out with them, Jatinderpal and his accomplices slapped me many multiple times and also assaulted me. The other devotees in the gurdwara saved me,” said the complainant.The shrine’s president, however, denied the allegations. “Jaspal and his aides were running a parallel group against me in the gurdwara. I had even made several complaints against him to the police and administration, but to no avail. I will appear in the court rather than answering to the police,” said Jatinderpal.A case under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restraint), 506 (criminal intimidation), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon) and 149 (an offence is committed by any member of an unlawful assembly) of the Indian Penal Code at the Phase 1 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/phase-4-gurdwara-president-booked-for-assault/story-pNgdzunsIrf8L3qM8b4WQL.html
30-05-2020||Pune||Maharashtra schools will not reopen in June: Dy CM Ajit Pawar||Maharashtra’s deputy chief minister, Ajit Pawar, on Friday made it clear that “at no cost would the government allow schools to start in June”.Pawar also clarified that the state government is considering July 1 as the restart date for schools, even if this means cutting short the Diwali and Christmas holidays.“This is all at the thinking level and no final decision has been taken,” Pawar said in Pune, where he was present to inaugurate a flyoverNationalist Congress Party (NCP) member Ashwini Kadam raised the question about schools reopening during a public interaction, to which Pawar replied, “The state government is firm… schools will not reopen in the month of June.”Recently, Maharashtra’s Education Minister Varsha Gaikwad had made a statement suggesting schools could restart in June.“We are with the parents. It is natural that with the Covid-19 pandemic, parents cannot send their children to school,” Pawar said, adding, “The state government is thinking about schools restarting at a later date. To complete the curriculum, the government will cut the Diwali and Christmas vacations… but it’s all at the thinking level.”In response to Kadam raising the issue of school principals also being worried about reopening, Pawar instructed Kadam to give a message to all principals: “the government will not open schools in June”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-schools-will-not-re-open-in-june-dy-cm-ajit-pawar/story-pVCIHtx2Kkrlf0WTgqLKCN.html
30-05-2020||Pune||Dalit entrepreneurs in Pune present charter of demands before FM in webinar||The Dalit Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industries (DICCI) has appealed to the union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman to raise credit limit for companies from the existing 20 per cent to 40 per cent of the company turnover (fund-based working capital and non-fund based working capital) to deal with the Covid-19 crisis.The other demands by DICCI include creation of 15 per cent margin money support scheme for Stand-Up-India Scheme for enabling SC-ST (scheduled castes/scheduled tribes) entrepreneurs to avail the credit facility of the scheme; creation of MUDRA 2.0 to support credit facilities for nano and micro-entrepreneurs and reconstitution of National Scheduled Caste Finance Development Corporation (NSFDC) into Non-Banking Financial Company for channelling the schedule caste development funds directly to the scheduled caste entrepreneurs.DICCI’s founder-chairman Milind Kamble said in a press note that there was an apprehension regarding indirect routing of global players into the Indian market for tenders related to self-reliant India and support to Make in India schemes. “The necessary amendments of general financial rules for eliminating such possibilities must be taken into consideration,” he said.These issues were raised in a recent webinar addressed by Ravikumar Narra, DICCI’s national working president, advisor and managing director and CEO of Bombay Stock Exchange Ashish Kumar Chavan; Kishor Kharat, former MD and CEO, Indian Bank and advisor to DICCI, and Anil Howale, the organisation’s Pune chapter president. Nearly 1,000 members of DICCI participated in the webinar.Kamble said the finance minister assured the Dalit entrepreneurs that their grievances would be addressed and that there was merit in their representation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/dalit-entrepreneurs-present-charter-of-demands-before-fm-in-webinar/story-XZG8cj2nHPPqAfYCYdc0kK.html
30-05-2020||Pune||Road, rail, air: Health check at entry points for all coming into Pune||All persons coming into Pune district from elsewhere, whether by air, road or railways, will be subject to a medical check-up upon entry into the city, district collector Naval Kishore Ram has stated. This is part of a set of guidelines issued by the collector that is aimed at minimising the risk of the Covid-19 infection being brought into the city from elsewhere.Collector Naval Kishore Ram said, “The necessary directions have been issued to the concerned officers and necessary manpower and human resources has been allocated for implementation of guidelines.” The Pune Police have also appealed to citizens to adhere to the guidelines. DCP (Crime) Bacchan Singh said, “People should cooperate with the authorities and guidelines must be complied with not only for personal safety but also for others.” The order specifies that those coming in from anywhere outside the city will be mandatorily checked by doctors at various entrance points to the city.The district collector, who has been designated as “incident commander”, has issued the instructions to all heads of police stations, block development officers, tehsildars, district health officers and chief executive officers of various bodies, to diligently carry out the medical checkups of all those entering the district by road, flights, private vehicles and other means of transport, including buses and railways.The order further states that those without symptoms must be directly put under home, or institutional quarantine, while those who are symptomatic must be directly sent to government hospitals for further treatment. Concerned government officials are to ensure necessary precautions like social distancing and the wearing of masks by all travellers coming in to Pune.The district collector further directed that all persons entering the district must mandatorily register themselves and then provide a daily update to the district health officer.Guidelines for all persons coming into Pune district from outstation:-Mandatory check-up by doctors at entry points/ check-posts-All entering the district by road, flights, private vehicles and other means of transport, including buses and railways will undergo health check-Asymptomatic person(s) to be directly put under home quarantine/institutional quarantine-Symptomatic person(s) to be sent to government hospitals for further treatment-Officials must ensure precautions like social distancing and wearing of masks -Mandatory registration of all persons entering Pune at the entry points, check-posts-Compulsory daily health updates to be submitted to district health officer by all person(s) coming into Pune from outside||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/road-rail-air-health-check-at-entry-points-for-all-coming-into-pune/story-kxI8Lm5vECEwizC3MuAVzL.html
30-05-2020||Pune||Poultry industry looks up as chicken consumption revives across states||Poultry farmers, traders and retailers, at the receiving end of fake news, courtesy social media, attributing consumption of chicken as likely sources of Covid-19, are now enjoying a windfall with prices of broilers having doubled from the early March rates.In March, chicken was retailing for Rs 100 per kg. The May 29 retail price for a kg of chicken is Rs220.Ramesh Khatri, president, Poultry Federation of India said, “The demand for chicken increased in almost all the states in India, but the situation of the poultry industry has not yet normalised. Right now, production is 20 per cent and demand is 25 per cent so the rates increased. When hotels and restaurants open, at that time demand would increase further. The poultry industry will not be able to match supply till June; but after July, the demand and supply ratio will even out and rates will return to normal. One thing is clear now, people do not have anything in their minds as to there being any relation between the coronavirus and chicken.”According to several retailers in Pune, on April 1, the wholesale price of broiler was Rs20 per kg. In the second week of April, wholesale prices touched Rs60 per kg. From the last week of April, the price of chicken has steadily increased and in May, crossed the Rs100 per kg benchmark. On Friday, chicken was selling for Rs120 to Rs130 per kg, which is even higher than the pre-Covid 2019 wholesale prices, which was at Rs70 to Rs75 per kg.Supply struggling to meet demand is being cited as the reason for the increasing broiler prices.Chicks on the farm need 50 to 60 days to reach the harvestable state. Between March and April, close to no birds were being reared on poultry farms considering the market situation. Supply of poultry feed and farm activities in general were affected by the lockdown.Ganesh Khairnar, A V Broiler company’s branch manager at Kalwan in Nashik district said, “The poultry industry has seen a bottom and a peak in last two months. As social media linked the coronavirus with chicken, it badly hit the industry. Poultry companies and farmers started throwing the birds in garbage as there was no demand. Even our company started selling chickens in weekly bazaars. There were no consumers. The situation has completely changed and people are more aware now. Demand for chicken has been improving since April as it is good source of protein.”P G Pedgaonkar, manager at poultry giant Venky’s (Venkateshwara Hatcheries group), said, “Now there is no stigma attached to eating chicken. The situation was worse in February and March due to social media. Despite raising a lot of awareness that there is no relation between chicken consumption and Covid-19, people were afraid and not taking any risk. Now citizens are aware and demand for chicken has increased. The average demand for chicken, pre-Covid in Maharashtra, was 3,000 metric tonnes. Now there is less supply, so rates are good. The current average demand for chicken is 1,200 to 1,300 metric tonnes and the supply side is almost at that level.”Pedgaonkar adds, “People are more aware about healthy food during lockdown due to Covid-19. The demand may keep increasing.”Poultry farmer Kiran Thakre from Nashik district said, “Two months ago, there were no buyers for chicken. Many farmers were worried as poultry companies were not buying chicken and the production cost was increasing. Now we don’t have birds and demand is increasing. Many farmers shut down in the month of March, but now, they too are starting their poultry business again.”Vikrant Patil, a Pune resident, said, “I love chicken, but social media gave a bad impression and my family members did not allow me to eat chicken. Now, during lockdown, I buy chicken two times in the week. Everywhere there are long lines for purchasing chicken in the city.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/poultry-industry-looks-up-as-chicken-consumption-revives-across-states/story-1dxzHK8LcXdGO2mXrqtIPN.html
30-05-2020||Pune||Parolee killed in Yerawada, Pune; 16 booked||A 24-year-old man on parole from Yerawada Central Prison was killed in an attack by 16 people.The deceased was identified as Nitin Shivaji Kasbe, a resident of Bhuimjyoti Mitra Mandal, Yerawada.Nagesh Raju Kamble, 25, a resident of Gosavi vasti in Vaidwadi area of Hadapsar, lodged a complaint.The deceased parolee was walking with the complainant and two persons identified as Sagar Kasbe and Kunal Chandane to attend a programme organised in memory of his relative.The reason behind the attack is suspected to be a fight between one of the attackers and Chandane. The 16 men arrived at Shadalbaba chowk where the four were walking and attacked them with sickles, blades and stones. Nitin sustained injuries in the attack and died on the spot, according to the complainant. A case under Sections 302 (murder), rioting, 188, 269, 323 of Indian Penal Code along with Section 3 of Epidemic Diseases Act, Section 11 of Maharashtra Covid19 Regulation, 2020 and Section 51(b) of Disaster Management Act was registered at Yerawada police station against the 16 accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/parolee-killed-in-yerawada-pune-16-booked/story-noKZO4E2BDrXBjEzXGOk3J.html
30-05-2020||Jaipur||Two more Covid-19 deaths in Rajasthan, virus tally at 8,158||Rajasthan reported two more Covid-19 deaths on Friday, taking the virus death toll in the state to 182, the Health Department said. Over 90 new coronavirus cases were also reported in the state, taking the virus tally to 8,158. “One death each was reported from Jaipur and Jhunjhunu,” Additional Chief Secretary (Health), Rohit Kumar Singh, said.Of the new cases, 42 were reported in Jhalawar, 12 each in Jaipur and Nagaur, six in Churu, five each in Dholpur and Udaipur, two cases each in Ajmer, Alwar, Bharatpur, Bikaner and one in Kota.  There are 3,121 active cases of the pathogen in the state and 4,289 people have been discharged, they said.  Jaipur has recorded the maximum of 86 deaths and 1,921 cases in the state, followed by 17 deaths and 1,375 cases in Jodhpur.Of the total cases, 2,221 are migrants who had returned to Rajasthan from other states, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/two-more-covid-19-deaths-in-rajasthan-virus-tally-at-8-158/story-TOUw5sHc5gUF9lqbKjxSYI.html
