03-09-2021||Bathinda||Gun goes off at Cong meeting in Talwandi Sabo, two injured||Two persons were injured after the gun of a private guard of a Congress leader went off during a public meeting of halqa in charge Khushbaz Singh Jattana in Talwandi Sabo on Thursday.Jattana had organised a public meeting on Guru Kashi College Road in Talwandi Sabo. When he started his speech, a gun shot was reported near the stage.The shot got fired as the gun of a guard posted with a political leader of Talwandi Sabo fell on the floor. Darbara Singh and Pooran Singh were injured in the incident. Both were taken to a hospital from where Pooran Singh was referred to Bathinda. Their condition is said to be stable and out of danger. A probe is under way. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/gun-goes-off-at-cong-meeting-in-talwandi-sabo-two-injured-305607
03-09-2021||Bathinda||Ex-councillor protests LPG price hike||Protesting against the state and central governments over rising inflation and increased prices of cooking gas, former MC councillor and SAD worker Vijay Kumar, along with city residents, dangled a gas cylinder around his neck and cooked food on a traditional ‘chullah’ at Parasram Nagar in Bathinda today.The protesters raised slogans against the government and demanded prices of essential commodities to be reduced. “The LPG cylinder costs Rs 925 now. We request the government to reduce the prices so that the common man is not burdened financially,” he said.He added: “Today, we cooked food on a ‘chullah’ to symbolise that if the prices of cooking gas keep increasing at this rate, the common man would not be left with any other option.”— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/ex-councillor-protests-lpg-price-hike-305620
03-09-2021||---||Jagmeet Singh Brar faces farmers' protest on day 1 of campaign in Maur||Bathinda, September 2Politicians of all parties are facing stiff opposition from farmers over the three new farm laws, SAD-BSP candidate from Maur Jagmeet Singh Brar faced protest from farmers on the first day of campaigning when he visited a SAD worker at Maur Mandi.Also read: Farmers lathicharged at Sukhbir Badal's rally in MogaAs per information, BKU Mansa workers carrying black flags in their hands, started raising slogans against the SAD and they reached outside the SAD worker’s shop. When Brar came to know about it, he came out and tried to pacify them. He told them SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal had motivated party workers to participate in farmers’ protest in big numbers.Brar also announced that they would do everything to get the laws repealed.However, farmers’ leaders said they would continue their protest against the politicians.Sekhon courts fresh controversySAD leader Janmeja Singh Sekhon on Thursday courted a fresh controversy after a video went viral, showing him wiping his face with a ‘siropa’ given to him by the BSP during an event at Maur. BSP leader Joginder Singh downplayed the incident, saying he might have done it mistakenlyOn the first day of his campaign, Brar paid obeisance at Maiser Khana temple and started his campaign, but absence of many circle presidents and senior local SAD leaders, who are considered close to Sikander Singh Maluka camp, raised concern for the SAD candidate.In a major development, Brar today visited the house of Maluka, who was demanding the ticket for himself from Maur. Brar claimed Maluka and his family have assured him of full support.Brar said, “Around 10 SAD leaders did not attended his event, but later I visited Maluka at his house and he has called all his supporters and told them to fully support me.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/jagmeet-singh-brar-faces-farmers-protest-on-day-1-of-campaign-in-maur-305600
03-09-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Hit by farmers' stir, Walmart to shut Bathinda store||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 2Punjab, it seems, is paying the economic cost for the long-drawn protests by farmers outside the stores and businesses of multinational companies. After the Adani Group decided to shut down its dry port at Kila Raipur last month, Walmart and its Indian arm Flipkart have now decided to close their outlet in Bathinda.Also read: Firms support farm stir, move machinery from Adani Dry Port at Kila RaipurIt is learnt the company has decided to shut its 50,000 sq feet wholesale outlet in Bathinda after the store remained closed for months because of the farmers’ agitation and a permanent dharna outside its premises. With losses mounting to millions of dollars after the store was forced shut in October last year, the company has decided to close it and go the “online way”.A company official told The Tribune that Flipkart Wholesale, the digital B2B marketplace of Flipkart Group, had demonstrated exponential growth in e-commerce adoption among members, especially kiryana stores in Bathinda, over the past few months. “To drive greater value and efficiency, the company will be focusing on e-commerce to continue servicing kiryanas and other members more efficiently. Towards this effort, Flipkart Wholesale will be closing its cash and carry store in Bathinda,” he said.Also read: Police hold meeting with farmers laying siege to Adani logistics park at Kila Raipur in Ludhiana“Staying invested in the state, the company will be opening a new warehouse at a suitable location. Kiryana and other members from Bathinda making online orders will be serviced seamlessly from this new centre, and in-store purchases can be done in the neighbouring store in Ludhiana. More than 100 employees will be provided new opportunities at Flipkart Wholesale at the new fulfillment centre and across the larger Flipkart Group ecosystem across supply chain and logistics,” he added.Notably, the store presently has over 200 employees on its roll, but many of them could lose their jobs. The closing down of the store would also have a ripple effect on other businesses that were directly or indirectly supplying goods to the Walmart store.Reliance, which earned the wrath of the protesting farmers, too, is incurring huge losses as its retail outlets. In all, 27 company-owned and company-operated fuel retail outlets and its telecom businesses have been hit because of the protests. The protesters are not allowing the conglomerate to even install telecom towers for upgrading and strengthening the infrastructure. As businesses remain shut, those who have rented out their premises to these companies have not been getting their rentals.“As of now, we are supporting the workers, but this cannot continue in perpetuity. We hope the state government intervenes and resolves this issue at the earliest,” said an employee of Reliance.Also read: Offered ‘low rates’ by Adani, apple growers in Himachal turn to APMCsUgrahan warns firm against layoffsBKU (Ekta Ugrahan) president Joginder Singh Ugrahan has warned the company against laying off employees. “If you lay off employees, we will not allow a single store of your company to operate in Punjab,” the BKU president said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/hit-by-farmers-stir-walmart-to-shut-bathinda-store-305604
