04-09-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||BJP main target in Punjab, but will question others too: BKU leader Joginder Singh Ugrahan||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, September 3BKU Ekta Ugrahan president Joginder Singh Ugrahan today said they will “strongly protest BJP leaders’ events in the state”, but asked people in villages to boycott “rallies of all other political parties as well”.Boycott other parties’ eventsWe will continue to question other parties and urge people in villages to boycott their events. We’ll tell parties not to hold events till farm protest is on. — Joginder Singh Ugrahan, BKU Ekta Ugrahan ChiefIn a video on the social media, Ugrahan said: “Many rumours are doing the rounds on the social media, but I want to clarify that our main target is the BJP, because it is the ruling party at the Centre and is not taking back the three ‘black’ farm laws.”He said: “Although other political parties are no different from the BJP, we will still not put them in the same bracket. But we will continue to ask questions of other parties, urge people in villages to boycott their events or rallies and tell parties not to hold events till the protest against the farm laws is on.”Reacting to the canecharge on farmers at Moga, Ugrahan said: “We condemn this incident as the farmers had gone to ask questions of SAD leaders.”He claimed it was seen that when farmers in large numbers confronted SAD leaders, Congress workers mixed with their cadre to create mischief and vice versa, leading to tension as such elements went unnoticed. “The Moga incident is apparently Congress’ ploy to portray in public the image of farmers getting beaten up at an SAD rally. But the Congress shouldn’t forget their police carried out the lathicharge in the state,” he said.Ugrahan asked the state government to cancel cases registered against farmer leaders and others at Moga or face protests in support of farmers.SAD general secretary Mohit Gupta, however, claimed: “Baffled by the response SAD rallies have been getting, the Congress and AAP are sending goons to farmers’ protest to defame the party. The SAD has snapped ties with the BJP over the farm laws and stands by the farmers.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/bjp-main-target-in-punjab-but-will-question-others-too-bku-leader-joginder-singh-ugrahan-306093
04-09-2021||Sameer Singh||Two chimneys of Bathinda thermal plant demolished||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, September 3The local administration on Friday demolished two towering chimneys of Guru Nanak Dev Thermal Plant (GNDTP) here. With this, final hopes of resuming operations have also been dashed to the ground, said members of the GNDTP Employees’ Federation.Give Heritage statusWe are planning to get heritage site status for four cooling towers that have become a symbol of the city over the years. — Gursewak Singh Sandhu, President, GNDTP Employees’ FederationNotably, Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal had made a pre-poll promise that the Bathinda thermal plant would be made functional again. But, with the demolition work underway, it seems that the promise won’t be kept. Citing feasibility, economic and environmental concerns, the state government had taken the decision to shut the thermal plant. As per the state government’s plan, an industrial park would be established on the land of the thermal plant.Lashing out at the government, a representative of the GNDTP Employees’ Federation said had the government made “genuine efforts”, the work could have been resumed at the thermal plant.Established in 1969 on Guru Nanak Dev’s 500th birth anniversary, the GNDTP was inaugurated by then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi amid much fanfare. Built with Russian technology, the thermal plant had four units that generated 440 MWs of electricity. Meanwhile, crores of rupees were spent on renovation of the thermal plant on different occasions in the past two decades.Talking to The Tribune, Gursewak Singh Sandhu, president of GNDTP Employees' Federation, said, “Today is the dark day in the history of state as two chimneys of the thermal plant have been dismantled by the government. The government's claim that power generation was expensive here does not have any substantive basis. An RTI reply had revealed that the per unit power generation cost here was Rs 4.76 instead of Rs 11 per unit claimed by the government.”To stop further demolition, we are planning to get heritage site status for four cooling towers that have become a symbol of the city over the years. By making some modifications, these can be utilised for promotion of tourism," said Sandhu. .||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/two-chimneys-of-bathinda-thermal-plant-demolished-306100
04-09-2021||Bathinda||Waive debt, electricity bills: Punjab farm labourers||Punjab Khet Mazdoor Union members along with other labourer unions carried out a protest march in Bathinda demanding debt-waiver, permanent employment to labour class and a proposal in the Vidhan Sabha for revoking recent “anti-labour” class amendments to labour laws.The protesters gathered near the Rose Garden area and after representatives from different unions of labourers addressed the gathering. They carried out a protest march in different parts of the city and raised slogans against state and central governments.Members of the Dehati Mazdoor Sabha, Mazdoor Mukti Morcha, Khet Mazdoor Sabha and Punjab Khet Mazdoor Sabha participated in the protest.Parkash Singh Nandgarh, a union leader, said, “We demand that all debts and outstanding electricity bills of farm labourers must be waived. The public distribution system must be streamlined and labourers and common man must be provided with essential commodities at subsidised rates.”Pritpal Singh Rampura, another leader said, “Despite being assured in meeting with Cabinet Minister Brahm Mohindra recently, debts and electricity bills of labourers have not been waived till now. We will gherao Moti Mahal residence of Capt Amarinder Singh in Patiala on September 13.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/waive-debt-electricity-bills-punjab-farm-labourers-306107
04-09-2021||---||Punjab schools open, but parents prefer online classes||Bathinda, September 3After remaining closed for a long time due to Covid-19 pandemic, schools in the state have now started opening for all classes.However, large numbers of parents are still hesitant to send their kids to schools and many have not given consent for physical classes in view of a possible third wave. Taking no chances, private schools have asked parents to submit their consent in writing. Moreover, parents have to ensure that their children will wear masks, carry sanitiser and maintain social distance, but many parents still want their kids to continue studying online.Their prime concern is that children have generally less resistance power and immunity and can face health problems if infected. However, it is learnt that more number of students are going to school in rural areas as compared to the urban areas.The principal of a Bathinda school said: “We have received consent from around half of the parents for physical classes. We will start the school with 50 per cent strength. The online classes will also run parallel.”Monika Garg, mother of Class VII boy, said: “Sending my child to school is a major risk as there are reports of a possible third wave. I have not given my consent for physical classes yet. I will wait for a few more months.”Dr Vitul K Gupta, a health activist, said: “I strongly feel that schools must open with effective Covid-preventive measures. The closure of schools for long is adversely affecting students’ mental and physical health. If we can’t ensure strict compliance of Covid-appropriate behaviour and mental healthcare, schools should remain closed.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/punjab-schools-open-but-parents-prefer-online-classes-306116
04-09-2021||Chandigarh||CS: Open IPD at Bathinda AIIMS by month-end||In order to provide best possible healthcare facilities and further ramp up the health infrastructure to effectively deal with any exigency in future, the Chief Secretary, Vini Mahajan, directed the authorities concerned to open the IPD (in patient department) services at the upcoming All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Bathinda by September-end, besides making functional the under-establishment PGI satellite centre in Sangrur by October.Chairing a high-level meeting here, the Chief Secretary was apprised that the construction work of PGI satellite centre in Ferozepur was awarded last month and would be completed within 39 months. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/cs-open-ipd-at-bathinda-aiims-by-month-end-306124
