08-09-2021||---||Bathinda nursing staff go on 2-day mass leave||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, September 7On a call of the Joint Action Committee Punjab and UT, the Bathinda unit of nursing staff took two-day mass leave and started a district-level protest in front of the Civil Surgeon’s Office here on Tuesday.Bathinda Nursing Association president Swaran Kaur said: “We repeatedly tried to resolve our issues with the government through personal correspondence but the government did not respond to the organisation so far.”She said their main demands included restoration of deducted allowances and pay parity. “We worked round the clock during Covid and served people at the risk of our own lives, but no honorarium was given in lieu of this,” she said.Speaking on the occasion, another association member said there is a shortage of staff in the nursing cadre due to which the employees are under constant pressure.Paramedical Coordinating Committee district president Gagandeep Singh, Multipurpose Health Employees Association general secretary Jaswinder Sharma and others also addressed the staff.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/bathinda-nursing-staff-go-on-2-day-mass-leave-308027
08-09-2021||---||In extortion bid, Bathinda bizman shot at||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, September 7Two armed men allegedly opened fire at a city-based businessman, Rajinder Mangla, for failing to pay Rs 20 lakh extortion money to a Kotkapura-based gangster.Gangster arrestedSources said Goldy Brar had allegedly demanded the money on behalf of the Lawrence Bishnoi gang from the owner of Mangalam Flex. Brar had threatened to kill him if the ransom was not paid.As per information, two suspects on a motorcycle came to Mangla’s house on Sunday night and tried to set the main gate on fire using petrol. They later fired three shots at the businessman. Mangla saved his life by diving to the ground. The two later fled the scene, after which the police were informed. A team of the Thermal police station and CIA 1 reached the spot and started investigation. The incident was captured on the CCTV cameras installed at the house. Mangla claimed he had been receiving threat calls from the gangster for the past few days.Mangla also accused Chinki, a resident of Calcutta Wali Gali on the Amrik Singh Road, of passing on information about him to the gangster. As per sources, Brar had been making extortion demands on behalf of the Bishnoi gang. Earlier, the name of the gang had cropped up in a case involving extortion call from inside the jail. Thermal police station SHO Balwinder Singh said they had registered a case on Mangla’s complaint and the CIA-1 team was probing the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/in-extortion-bid-bathinda-bizman-shot-at-308029
