09-09-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Politics hots up over 2 Bathinda flyovers||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, September 8Politics has intensified over two flyovers coming up on the Barnala road, a day after a delegation of residents headed by BJP state general secretary Dyal Sodhi met Union Minister Nitin Gadkari in New Delhi. Bathinda MP and former Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal along with SAD leaders also held a virtual meeting with Gadkari over the same issue on Tuesday.Sodhi said: “We apprised Gadkari of the problems likely to be faced by people of the city with the construction of the sand-filled bridge.” A delegation member said Gadkari assured the people of Bathinda that welfare of citizens of Punjab was their top priority and a suitable alternative to the proposed bridge on the Barnala road would be announced shortly.Harsimrat took to Facebook and posted: “Spoke to Minister of Road Transport Nitin Gadkari regarding the overbridge where reinforced earth walls are being built on the Barnala bypass in Bathinda. Urged the minister to get the overbridge pillars redesigned to eliminate the distress of residents. He has assured to get the project executed as per the wishes of people.”Finance Minister and Bathinda MLA Manpreet Singh Badal laid the stone of the flyovers on August 7. The project has an estimated cost of Rs 50 crore. However, ever since work started on the project, residents have been demanding an elevated road instead of a sand-filled walled bridge.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/politics-hots-up-over-2-bathinda-flyovers-308526
09-09-2021||---||Punjab farmers give thumbs down to wheat MSP hike||Bathinda, September 8Punjab farmers are unhappy with the Centre’s decision to increase wheat MSP by only Rs 40 for the 2022-23 season, saying the new prices were “grossly inadequate” to meet even the input costs.Rejecting the hike, farmers questioned the Centre’s intentions on the issue of giving remunerative prices to farmers.Bhartiya Kisan Union Ekta Ugrahan state secretary Shingara Singh Mann said the Centre had increased the wheat MSP by just Rs 40 per quintal. “This meagre increase in wheat prices does not even cover the cost of increased diesel prices,” he said. According to the Swaminathan Commission report, all actual expenses should be calculated and the prices of all crops fixed at reasonable profit.At its meeting with farmer organisations, the Union Government talked about continuing with the MSP, but only three crops were procured in two or three states. He demanded that the government procurement of all crops should be guaranteed in all states by fixing reasonable prices.Farm leader Jasveer Singh Burj Sema said, “The government is fooling farmers. It has increased the MSP of mustard, masur, gram and barley, but who purchases these crops on MSP as these are sold at very low prices. So, until these crops are procured bythe government, farmers won’t get any benefit. If the government really wants to help farmers, it should guarantee MSP on all crops,” he said.SAD rejects increased priceSAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Wednesday said at a time when farmers across the country were agitating against the three laws, the Centre had gone ahead to announce the lowest MSP hike in recent years. “This is akin to sprinkling salt on the wounds of farmers,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/punjab-farmers-give-thumbs-down-to-wheat-msp-hike-308536
