16-09-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Bathinda boy Pulkit Goyal tops JEE Main||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, September 15Pulkit Goyal from the city topped the country by scoring 100 percentile in the Joint Entrance Exam (JEE) Main, the results of which were declared on Wednesday morning.Born in 2003, Pulkit has been an ace student throughout. He scored 94.8% in his Class XII at Sanawar School and 98.6% in Class X at St Joseph Convent School, Bathinda. His father Vijay Kumar Goyal is a businessman, while his mother Neelam Goyal is a homemaker. He got relocated to Kota to prepare for the exam.Another city lad secures AIR 84A maths enthusiast, Pulkit loves to solve problems and believes in understanding the concept. With All India Rank 1 in bag, he is all set to take on the challenge of JEE Advanced, 2021.“I used to study for 7-8 hours a day. For recreation, I spent time with my family. I aim to crack JEE Advanced and pursue engineering in computer science from IIT, Bombay,” he said. Pulkit’s first goal was to crack JEE Mains, 2021. He did it in his first attempt. He scored 99.88 percentile in the February session. Though the score was enough to get him through to JEE Advanced, he was not satisfied.He appeared in the March session and improved his score to 99.92. In the third attempt, it improved to 99.99 percentile but he was still not satisfied. “In session 4, I scored 100 percentile with perfect 300 score. My dedication, hard work and perseverance paid off,” he said.“We are happy that he achieved what he wanted to, but there is still a long way to go. Pulkit will be preparing for JEE Advanced now,” his father said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/bathinda-boy-pulkit-goyal-tops-jee-main-311653
16-09-2021||---||‘Pressured’ to improve survey ranking, teachers take to streets||Bathinda, September 15Members of the Joint Teachers’ Front burnt an effigy of the Education Department Secretary, accusing the latter of laying emphasis on improving Punjab’s ranking in the NAS (National Achievement Survey) while “compromising academics of students in the process”.The union representatives also alleged that since Assembly elections were due next year, the department officials were implementing decisions at the behest of their political masters. Members of the joint front gathered near the Ambedkar Park area and raised slogans against the department before burning an effigy of the department Secretary. Notably, to mark their protest against the policies of the department, the front had given a call to stage a protest and burn the Education Secretary’s effigy in which ever district he visits.Won’t allow privatisationDepartment officials are taking decisions which will give the control of academics in the hands of corporate houses in future. Such decisions will not be tolerated. —Resham Singh Khemuana, Teachers’ front presidentDemocratic Teachers’ Front president Resham Singh Khemuana said: “The department and its officials are taking decisions which will give the control in the hands of corporate houses in future. We have unanimously decided that such dictatorial approach and decisions of the department will not be tolerated at all.”Vikas Garg, another leader, said: “We demand that the pay commission’s amended report be implemented at the earliest, services of contractual employees be regularised, old pension scheme be restarted and vacant posts are filled by recruiting teachers on a regular basis.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/pressured-to-improve-survey-ranking-teachers-take-to-streets-311663
