21-09-2021||---||Bathinda: Cotton growers protest over pest attack||Bathinda, September 20Irked over the growing problem of pink bollworm infestation in the Malwa region, hundreds of farmers, led by BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) leader Jagdev Singh Jogewala, protested outside the office of the District Agriculture Officer here on Monday.They also brought the destroyed cotton crop with them. Farmers claimed that 80 to 90 per cent of the cotton crop had been destroyed by the pink bollworm, but the Agriculture Department was still in deep slumber.Jogewala said there was a widespread attack of pink bollworm in Bathinda and Mansa districts. He said it was similar to the 2015 whitefly attack, when most of the cotton crop was destroyed. He alleged that the Agriculture Department was underestimating the damage done by the pink bollworm to hide its failure.Meanwhile, farmer leaders Kulwinder Singh Giana and Kulwant Sharma alleged that this time, the growers had been supplied fake Bt cotton seeds, which had led to the pink bollworm attack. They said this had been done by big companies and the government under an agreement reached with corporate houses. “It’s a step to grab our lands.”Protesters said they would be forced to plough their cotton crop in coming days and demanded a high-level inquiry into the matter of Bt seeds.Farmers further said after Bathinda and Mansa, the pest attack had started in other districts as well. They said the farmers had sprayed pesticides three to four times so far, but the pink bollworm was still present. The leaders demanded that the Punjab Government should pay a special compensation of Rs 60,000 per acre to the farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/bathinda-cotton-growers-protest-over-pest-attack-313836
21-09-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Manpreet Badal emerges taller in Punjab Congress churn||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, September 20With the change of the guard, former Finance Minister and Bathinda Urban MLA Manpreet Singh Badal has emerged stronger, even as his former Cabinet colleague Gurpreet Singh Kangar, close to former CM Capt Amarinder Singh, may not make the cut in the new Cabinet.Pushed for Channi as CMParty sources say Manpreet had some role to play in the last-minute change in the choice of Chief Minister. Manpreet apparently whispered Charanjit Singh Channi’s name as a Dalit face. He is also learnt to have impressed upon the party high command to consider a Dalit CM, considering the ground situation in the state with various parties announcing posts for SCs ahead of the Assembly elections. After visiting the Governor along with Harish Rawat to stake the claim as the next Chief Minister, Channi had called on Manpreet, a neighbour in Chandigarh. Manpreet, who maintained silence during the Captain-Sidhu tussle, seems to have succeeded in playing his cards well. The fact that Manpreet has a good rapport with Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Vadra, there is likelihood that he may be part of the new ministry, retaining the Finance portfolio.The newly elected Chief Minister may look to induct young faces in his Council of Ministers and Congress’ Gidderbaha MLA Amrinder Singh Raja Warring is a likely candidate.Sources in the party also indicate Channi may not retain some ministers from the Captain Amarinder Cabinet. They include former Revenue Minister Gurpreet Singh Kangar and former Sports Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, both considered close to the former CM.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/manpreet-badal-emerges-taller-in-punjab-congress-churn-313853
