23-09-2021||Bathinda||Ex-CM Capt Amarinder Singh’s photos off Bathinda hoardings||Photographs of former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh have gone off the hoardings put up by Congress workers in Bathinda.The new hoardings, with congratulatory messages for new CM Charanjit Singh Channi, that are coming up across the city are without any pictures of Capt Amarinder.The posters have photographs of PPCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu and Manpreet Singh Badal. A senior party leader said many leaders are deliberately avoiding putting up photos of the former Chief Minister because it was clear that the Congress is divided into two groups – Capt and Sidhu. Most leaders didn’t want to stand with the outgoing leadership for their personal gains. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/ex-cm-capt-amarinder-singhs-photos-off-bathinda-hoardings-314779
23-09-2021||---||4-fold rise in Bathinda dengue cases||Bathinda, September 22A sudden spike in dengue cases in Bathinda district has put Health Department officials on the toes.As per records, a four-fold increase in dengue cases has been reported in the past two weeks alone in the district. From around 60 cases around two weeks ago, the cases have climbed to 253 till September 22. Deputy Commissioner B Srinivasan has also tested positive for dengue. As per department officials, of the 253 cases, only two have been reported from rural areas and the rest are from Bathinda city. After the DC tested positive, a team of health workers reached his residence to carry out sprays and put other safety measures in place.Surveys underwayWe have increased the manpower and a number of teams are conducting field surveys. —Dr Tejwant Singh Dhillon, Civil surgeonA report carried in this newspaper had highlighted that there was stagnant water at many residential as well as commercial areas, including in posh areas, and even outside the residences of senior administrative and police officials in the city.Health officials claimed that apart from spreading awareness among residents, they had been undertaking all measures to prevent breeding of dengue larvae. But they also admitted that current climatic conditions around this time of every year were quite conducive to the breeding of dengue larvae. Municipal Corporation teams have also been carrying out fogging in city areas regularly.Civil Surgeon Dr Tejwant Singh Dhillon said: "Cases have started increasing in the past 8-10 days and they do pick up around this time of the year. We have increased the manpower and also number of teams of health workers who have been carrying out field surveys intensively.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/4-fold-rise-in-bathinda-dengue-cases-314784
23-09-2021||---||Women demand debt waiver; take out protest march in Bathinda||Bathinda, September 22Hundreds of women participated in the ‘Aurat karza mukti rally’ organised under the banner of the Mazdoor Mukti Morcha in Bathinda on Wednesday.Before taking out a protest march in the city, they held a meeting outside the Rose Garden here.Addressing the protesters, Punjab Mazdoor Mukti Morcha state president Bhagwant Singh Samao, state secretary Harwinder Singh Sema and district president Pritpal Singh Rampura said due to the rising unemployment and inflation rates, women from rural and urban landless poor families were living in fear due to debt trap of private finance companies. They said to pay instalments of these loans, working women had to sell their valuables for pennies. They said the state government was anti-women for ignoring poor women in the debt waiver schemes. They said in order to divert attention of people, from their betrayal, the Congress had removed Captain and made Charanjit Singh Channi the Chief Minister. They said the mazdoor morcha would intensify their agitation till the fulfilment of their demands.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/women-demand-debt-waiver-take-out-protest-march-in-bathinda-314787
23-09-2021||Bathinda||Punjabi singer Parmish Verma’s fiancé Geet Grewal loses Canada election||Punjabi singer Parmish Verma’s fiancé Geet Grewal has lost the federal election in Canada. She contested on Liberal ticket from Mission-Matsqui-Fraser Canyon.Grewal has been defeated by Conservative Party candidate Brad Vis by around 8,000 votes. Vis got 43.9 per cent votes and Grewal 24.5 per cent.Also read: Jagmeet Singh will again be a kingmaker as Trudeau fails to win majorityBarnala village celebrates Jagmeet Singh’s poll win16 Punjab-origin candidates win federal pollsAnother known Indo-Canadian face to lose the election was Conservative Party sitting MP Bob Saroya. Even Conservative sitting MP Jag Sahota lost to first-timer George Chahal of Liberal Party from Calgary Skyview.As many 47 Punjabis were in the fray on a total of 338 seats in this federal election in Canada, out of which only 17 Indo-Canadian won. As there was Punjabi vs Punjabi contest on many seats in Punjabi-dominated city of Brampton in Ontario, where Maninder Sidhu, Ruby Sahota, Sonia Sidhu and Kamal Khera have won, but they have defeated Punjabis only. On these seats, Naval Bajaj, Medha Joshi, Ramandeep Brar and Gurprit Gill have lost, respectively. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/punjabi-singer-parmish-vermas-fianc%C3%A9-geet-grewal-loses-canada-election-314790
