25-09-2021||Bathinda||Cong ticket aspirants in Maur out to woo voters||A change of guard in the ruling Congress has come as a jolt for Maur sitting MLA Jagdev Singh Kamalu, who recently joined Congress in presence of former CM Capt Amarinder Singh in a hope of getting ticket from here. With changing political development, he faces a tough completion from other aspirants in the party.Maninder Sekhon, grandson of former Mansa MLA Sher Singh Gagowal, Youth Congress secretary Navjot Sandhu and former MLA Mangat Rai Bansal’s wife Manju Bansal are amongst the probable candidates from Maur segment in Bathinda.Sekhon has started a campaign, “Padega Maur, Wadhega Maur”, under which he is providing free of cost education and stationery to the needy studying at government schools. He has also started a campaign, “Sada Kisan, Sada Mann”, under which free legal help would be provided to farmers booked during the agitation against three farm laws. Further, he has also announced providing free education up to 10th class for the farmers’ kids.Manju Bansal is overseeing the development in the Maur as halqa in-charge. In the 2017 elections, she unsuccessfully contested from the Mansa seat. In 2012, he husband lost to SAD minister Janmeja Singh Sekhon with a narrow margin from Maur. Sandhu has also started a campaign “Maur Mera Mann”, under which he is holding public meeting and listening to public grievances. — TNSKamalu, Khaira left out in coldMaur MLA Jagdev Singh Kamalu had recently left AAP and joined Congress along with Bholath MLA Sukhpal Khaira and Badaur MLA Pirmal Singh. A change of guard in the ruling Congress has come as a jolt for the Maur MLA||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/cong-ticket-aspirants-in-maur-out-to-woo-voters-315676
25-09-2021||Tribune Reporters||Roadways staff halt service for 2 hours in Bathinda||Bathinda/Abohar, Sept 24The Punjab Roadways Punbus and PRTC Contract Workers’ Union staged a protest and blocked the Bathinda city bus stand for two hours here today.The union members raised slogans against the state government and demanded regularisation of services. Meanwhile, commuters had to face inconvenience due to traffic snarl-ups on the Bathinda-Goniana road.Kulwant Singh, a state-level leader of the union, said the state government had been ignoring their demand of regularisation of services for a long time, leaving them with no option but to protest.Promise unfulfilledWe were assured during a meeting that our demands will be met. But now after the change of guard, the government officials are backtracking from their decision. —Kulwant Singh, Contract workers’ union leader“Even the newly appointed CM did not call any meeting to resolve our issue. We had called off our agitation after being assured during a meeting on September 14 that our demands would be met. But now after the change of guard, the government officials are backtracking from their decision.” The government had assured them of increase in salaries and annual increment, but it had adopted an evasive stance on the matter now, he added.“We had postponed our agitation till September 28 but with nothing concrete being done to honour their promises, we have decided to resume it today. If our demands are not fulfilled, we will sit on a dharna outside the new Chief Minister’s residence on October 12 and also carry out state-wide rallies and strike work at all bus stands,” added Singh.In Abohar, employees organised a protest at the bus stand, raising slogans against the government and halting movement of buses for two hours. Interestingly, almost all buses bore pictures of former CM Capt Amarinder Singh.Ferozepur Roadways Depot Employees’ Union president Baldev Singh said the managements of PRTC and PUNBUS were not paying heed to the demands of contract workers. He said the union would support the farmers’ call for ‘Bharat Bandh’ on September 27.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/roadways-staff-halt-service-for-2-hours-in-bathinda-315682
25-09-2021||Bathinda||Fire at Bathinda bank, goods damaged||A massive fire broke out inside the office of a government bank on the Bathinda-Goniana road near Tinkoni on Friday. Goods worth lakhs, including records, computers, furniture, air-conditioners and other items, were gutted in the fire that lasted for nearly three hours.Finance Minister Manpreet Badal’s office was also in the same building but no damage was reported there. As many as 10 fire tenders were pressed into action to douse the fire.A short-circuit was stated to be the reason behind the incident. Sub-Fire Officer Gurmail Singh said, “We received a call around 9:05 am regarding the fire. We reached the spot and used four big and six small fire tenders to douse the fire. It took us around three hours before we could completely douse the fire. Some of our firemen also got injured in the exercise.” The manager of the bank said the fire caused heavy damage and many important records and items were gutted. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/fire-at-bathinda-bank-goods-damaged-315687
