30-09-2021||Bathinda||Bathinda DC’s residence gheraoed over teacher’s transfer||Members of the Democratic Teachers’ Front staged a protest and gheraoed the residence of the Deputy Commissioner against the transfer order of a teacher to a village in Barnala district from Government High School, Sardargarh village, Bathinda. The union members gathered outside the district administrative complex and raised slogans against the Education Department.Resham Singh, president of the union, said, “Kuldeep Singh was serving at the government high school for a long time and discharged his services diligently. The academic performance of students has also improved after he joined the school. Without investigating the matter properly, senior officials, acting on a complaint filed by the school head teacher, have acted against Kuldeep Singh and not only transferred him to a distant location but also put him under suspension now. The head teacher does not have cordial relations with residents and she is of the view that Kuldeep is close to them.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/bathinda-dcs-residence-gheraoed-over-teachers-transfer-317962
30-09-2021||Bathinda||Bid to lease out Bathinda thermal plant guest house fails||After the closure of Guru Nanak Dev Thermal Plant (GNDTP) in Bathinda, it is the Lake View Guest House, situated near the thermal lakes, which is at stake. With barely any guests left, the Powercom Department’s bids to lease it out twice failed. The revenue from the guest house has decreased significantly since the plant was shut down.Built in 1970s along with the GNDTP, the guest house has been used by the department officials and even ministers of successive governments.Guru Nanak Dev Thermal Plant Employees’ Federation president Gursewak Singh Sandhu said: “While department officials have been claiming that they are trying to lease it out, they are actually planning to sell it off. But, we will not let it go in private player’s hands.”A senior official of the GNDTP said: “Since no private player is showing interest in the guest house, the state government will take a decision on the property.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/bid-to-lease-out-bathinda-thermal-plant-guest-house-fails-317968
30-09-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Navjot Sidhu ‘irked’ over Punjab CM consulting Finance Minister||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, September 29The choice for the Director General of Police (DGP) and the Advocate General (A-G) was not the only sticking point that irked Congress leader Navjot Sidhu, who resigned as the state Congress president yesterday.Sidhu was reportedly annoyed with CM Charanjit Singh Channi, for cosying up to Finance Minister Manpreet Badal and seeking his advice on important matters after taking charge of the state.In the last nine days, Manpreet and Channi have had several meetings at the Finance Minister’s residence in Chandigarh. Manpreet has posted pictures of the meetings on the social media. In one of the meetings, Deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa was also present.On Tuesday night, when party leaders were heading to meet Sidhu at his Patiala residence after he resigned from the post of the state Congress chief, Manpreet posted photos of Channi holding late-night discussions with him in Chandigarh. Sidhu was expecting Channi to take his advice on matters concerning the state, but Channi instead turned to Manpreet.Channi, along with Randhawa and other ministers, had reportedly backed Sidhu for the PCC president’s post and spearheaded the campaign against then CM Capt Amarinder Singh. Once Capt Amarinder resigned, several lobbies within the Congress started staking their claim.For the post of the new CM, Sunil Jakhar, Randhawa and Sidhu opposed each other. Later, Channi emerged as a consensus choice. However, after the change of guard, a regrouping took place within the Congress with Manpreet emerging stronger in the power corridors. Channi held meetings with him and sought advice on important matters, leaving Sidhu high and dry.Manpreet, who remained tight-lipped over the tussle between the Sidhu group and Capt Amarinder, suddenly got into the limelight with Channi taking over as the CM.Sidhu found himself on the back foot as Channi ignored his advice on the crucial appointments of the DGP and the A-G, and instead appointed Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota as the DGP and APS Deol as the A-G. Both have been under the cloud over sacrilege cases.After visiting the Governor to stake claim as the next CM, Channi first visited Manpreet, his next-door neighbour in Chandigarh, on September 19. Sources claim Manpreet had a role to play in the last-minute change in the choice for the CM. Manpreet had apparently suggested Channi’s name, for he is a Dalit face.Manpreet Badal emerges stronger||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/navjot-sidhu-irked-over-punjab-cm-consulting-finance-minister-317981
