01-10-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Kanhaiya Kumar and Jignesh Mevani join Congress||Winds of change Sir — Ending months of speculation, the former Communist Party of India member and Jawaharlal Nehru University Students’ Union president, Kanhaiya Kumar, has finally joined the Congress. The independent lawmaker from Gujarat, Jignesh Mevani, did not formally join the party, but assured that he would contest the Gujarat polls on a Congress ticket. Kumar’s move is interesting in the light of the comments of the Trinamul Congress supremo and Bengal chief minister, Mamata Banerjee, during the virtual meeting of Opposition parties in July — she had said that one must forget who the leader is as the people of India will lead the fight against the Bharatiya Janata Party. Unfortunately, the TMC itself is still at odds with the Congress, mounting offensives against the party ahead of the Bhowanipore bypolls through speeches and articles. More people are expected to throw in their lot with the Congress once the leadership issue is resolved. Kumar and Mevani are set to urge the youth to join the Congress in numbers. This would be a welcome change. Bidyut Kumar Chatterjee,Faridabad Sir — Kanhaiya Kumar has joined the Congress at the right time. Having lost the 2019 parliamentary elections, he is aware that there is no substitute for mainstream politics in India. The Congress has been deserted by many on account of differences in opinion. It remains to be seen what role the former student leader plays in the revitalization of the Congress. At present, the lack of a democratic atmosphere within the party is obvious. One expects Kumar to put the house in order. Jayanta Datta,Hooghly Sir — It is good to see young leaders like Kanhaiya Kumar and Jignesh Mevani extending support to the Congress. One expects their induction — Mevani is yet to join formally — into the Grand Old Party to help in its much-needed revival. The inept handling of the party in the last few years has caused immense harm and resulted in the exit of some promising leaders. One hopes the party will utilize the potential of these two young men to fill up the void created by the deserters. One also wishes that the party rises again, keeping in mind the path shown by M.K. Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru, Vallabhbhai Patel and others. Debasish Chatterjee,Calcutta Unfair test Sir — The National Eligibility cum Entrance Test does not provide a level playing field for the thousands of students who graduate from state boards or come from rural and semi-rural areas and cannot afford the exorbitant coaching fees charged by tutorials (“Poor coaches”, Sep 27). The bill passed by Tamil Nadu to disallow NEET in the state and assess candidates based on their results in board examinations when they apply to medical colleges is thus welcome. Other states like Maharashtra and West Bengal may take similar steps. Many Indian states have spent massive sums of money to establish medical colleges and maintain their infrastructure, but have limited choice in admitting students from their states. There is also a need to reassess the role of competitive exams. Students often feel disillusioned or are tragically driven to suicide when they fail to meet the standards of such exams; this is unfair to them. Further, if the NEET were indeed all about merit as is claimed, how is it that the Union government has approved reservations for some sections? H.N. Ramakrishna,Bangalore Sir — Competitive examinations like the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test are far from fair. It is designed to boost the business of coaching classes and its format is highly flawed. All states must reconsider such tests. Debashruti Sinha,Delhi Sir — Any true test of merit requires fair competition and this can stem only from equity, not mere equality. Grouping students from diverse backgrounds together is a bad idea. Sohini Saha,Calcutta  Sound advice Sir — It is heartening that the forest ministry has written to principal wildlife conservators in 17 states discouraging the use of harsh Hindi words — “aatanki” (terrorist) and “utpati” (oppressor), for instance — while narrating elephant attacks. Such descriptions can indeed inculcate a negative impression of wildlife among people — in India, it is not uncommon for people to kill wild animals out of fear. Conservators as well as the media should keep in mind the impact their words can have. They should try and cultivate a sense of harmony between wildlife and mankind in order to restore and retain the balance of nature. Rimi Dasgupta,West Burdwan||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-26
01-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Easy pickings||Homecomings can be bittersweet. The prime minister, Narendra Modi, brought home 157 stolen artefacts and antiquities, which were handed over to him by the United States of America. Ironically, though, tangible heritage faces a serious threat of obliteration in a New India obsessed with a mythical past. That could be because priceless artworks are, at present, protected by the Antiquities and Art Treasures Act, 1972. As antiquated as the items it seeks to protect, this law has many shortcomings. Excessive bureaucratic hurdles for both owners and traders of antiquities and the lack of a provision for a comprehensive database of such items are just two such gaps. These loopholes have helped create a thriving black market in these riches. The law also betrays ignorance about the vastness and the intricate nature of the international smuggling racket that comprises diverse agents, including ragpickers and impoverished middlemen. Livelihood exerts greater pressure than ethics. There is thus scope for introducing incentives and protection in the law for the accomplices so that they are encouraged to disclose information about those involved in illegal trade to the investigating agencies. The draft antiquities and art treasures regulation, export and import bill, 2017, which was supposed to replace the 1972 Act still lies in a limbo. Worryingly, it proposes to do away with the requirement of a licence for selling antiques within the country and the need to authenticate provenance or declare the source of acquisition of the pieces. This could end up facilitating the existing unlawful trade in invaluable material heritage instead of protecting it. The return of the artefacts from the US should be an occasion to reflect on these failings and examine possible solutions. First among these would be institutional reforms. Museums and the Archaeological Survey of India should employ trained staff. The director-general of the ASI — vested with the power to determine whether an idol is an antiquity — must have extensive expertise in archaeology and conservation. There is also the need to sensitize allied institutions, such as the police and other investigative agencies usually tasked with retrieving stolen artefacts, about the importance of heritage. The challenges that the police face — shortage of funds, manpower and autonomy — make it difficult for India to raise a specialized unit, such as Italy’s Carabinieri, whose officers would be trained not only in investigative techniques but also in art history and international law. The greatest impediment, of course, is India’s casual attitude towards antiques. The pedagogy of history and art objects needs to be made popular.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-26
01-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: What a mess||Crisis and the Congress have become synonymous in India’s political dictionary. The state of affairs in Punjab is a case in point. The high command’s decision to replace the former chief minister, Amarinder Singh, with Charanjit Singh Channi, with Navjot Singh Sidhu as the state chief, was initially seen as a politically prudent move. Mr Singh’s alleged unpopularity, the Congress hoped, would be compensated by the appointment of a Dalit chief minister in a state that has a sizeable presence of the community. But then a script seldom unfolds in a predictable manner in the Congress. Mr Sidhu, peeved at being elbowed out of the chief ministerial race, quit as party president; Mr Singh — he met the Union home minister, Amit Shah, recently — has announced that he will quit the Congress. This could only mean that the party should be prepared for a blowback from his supporters in the elections. The end result is that the Congress has managed to queer what appeared to be a smooth electoral pitch. That is not all. Pressing questions have been raised by the dissenting group — the G23 — pertaining to the political wisdom and style of functioning of Rahul Gandhi. Mr Sidhu, incidentally, enjoyed the high command’s patronage. The reasons for the crisis are not far to seek. Opportunism, rather than ideology, appears to be the principal incentive for a section of the Congress leadership. This hankering for power is comical given the Congress’s waning political imprint. The party is yet to have a full-time president; desertion is rampant — a prominent Congress leader from Goa has jumped ship; factionalism festers in the handful of states — Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan — where the party is in power. What is intriguing is that even though the party is in a shambles, organizationally as well as politically, the values that the Congress is meant to embody have acquired a renewed urgency. Its ideology continues to draw fresh, young faces: Kanhaiya Kumar and Jignesh Mevani have built bridges with the party simply because they share the Congress’s commitment to constitutional democracy and pluralism. Yet, the shadow deepens between the idea and its practice as far as the Congress is concerned. The future of India’s democracy would depend on the Congress’s ability to rejuvenate the party and renew its pledge to the founding vision of the republic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-26
01-10-2021||Opinion||Future wish list||The opening lines of a popular song by Tears for Fears go like this: “Shout! Shout! Let it all out!/ These are the things I can do without!” This raucous, elemental voicing of protest in “Shout” helped it reach the Number One spot in the charts in the United Kingdom and in the United States of America. The song was inspired by the concept of ‘primal therapy’ created by the American psychologist, Arthur Janov. Tears for Fears and “Shout” have become part of the nostalgia for the music scene of the 1980s. However, the sentiment of wider social protest is relevant today as we envision what a post-pandemic world should look like. It is, admittedly, difficult to evoke and define a post-pandemic future that is still taking shape behind a “veil of ignorance”, a term conceived by the American political philosopher, John Rawls. But one of the best ways of thinking about such a fluid future would be to think in terms of what it should not be like. Here are some of the things we can do without in a post-Covid world. Supposedly strong men who claim that they can lead their countries out of the pandemic. The variations of Donald Trump are to be found all over the world and they have all bungled up. In the UK, Boris Johnson failed to announce a timely lockdown and, in the initial months, failed to understand the root causes of the spread of the virus. A parliamentary inquiry was started in Brazil to investigate Jair Bolsonaro’s response. In India, Narendra Modi declared victory against the pandemic just before the deadly second wave. Is it a coincidence that the nations with the loudest male leaders are the ones with the highest death toll? Vaccine nationalism, the most recent manifestation of the utter undesirability of nationalism in the 21st century. The pandemic has created moral obligations for governments to ensure vaccines for the vulnerable beyond territorial boundaries. These moral obligations are far greater than the myopic concerns of vaccine diplomacy that merely seeks to instrumentally use the vaccines to bolster a particular country’s sphere of influence. A dose of Stoic philosophy, especially its idea of cosmopolitanism encompassing the whole of humanity rather than being confined to the narrowness of nationhood, may be the need of the hour. It could inoculate the world from nationalism which Albert Einstein had declared in 1929 to be an infantile disorder like the measles. Significantly, Trump, Johnson, Bolsonaro et al are the most vociferous supporters of nationalism. At one point, the Boris Johnson government had wanted to put the Union Jack on the packaging of the AstraZeneca vaccine. We can certainly do with less of free market capitalism as capitalism creates pandemics. Johnson wrongly thinks that free market capitalism resulted in the vaccines being developed rapidly. His critics were quick to point out that 97 per cent of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine was publicly funded. There is a strong case for the Covid vaccines to be turned into a public good to prevent pharmaceutical giants from making a killing: Pfizer is projecting $26 billion in revenue in 2021 from its Covid vaccine. For a post-pandemic future to kick in, we need to shout out loud that the profit motive be replaced with altruism.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-26
01-10-2021||Opinion||Decoding silence||Let me begin with a disclaimer: I oppose the Taliban in Afghanistan and their interpretation of Islam; I oppose a section of the so-called Indian ulema which celebrated the victory of the Taliban; and I oppose Hindutva’s appropriation of the Taliban issue to demonize Indian Muslims. However, I find the imagination of an elitist liberal Islam to counter religious essentialism to be equally problematic. The self-declared liberal Muslims (who claim to assert moderate Islam) as well as the self-assured cultural Muslims (who celebrate their atheism in public life) seem to reproduce an age-old, rigid, inflexible, and elitist discourse of Muslim intellectual backwardness. They blame Muslim communities for their conservative worldview and ask them to embrace modernity and rationalism for a better future. The cultural, social, regional, linguistic and even religious diversity among Muslims is completely ignored in this schema to sustain an enduring conflict between the ulema-led regressive Islam and a modernity led by liberals. Take, for instance, the video by the actor, Naseeruddin Shah, that went viral. He makes three claims in it. First, the “celebrations of the barbarians by some sections of Indian Muslims is no less dangerous”. Second, Muslims should ask themselves “if they want a reformed, modern Islam (jiddat pasandi modernity), or live with the old barbarism (vaishipan) of the past few centuries”. The third claim is very personal. Describing his adherence to a particular form of religiosity, Shah argues, “I am an Indian Muslim and as Mirza Ghalib said years ago, my relationship with God is informal. I don’t need political religion.” No rational mind would disagree with his first argument. The Taliban regime represents a clear threat to the very idea of religious tolerance and mutual co-existence of different faith communities. One must unequivocally resist it. However, the problem arises with his second proposition. Like a visionary, Shah asks Indian Muslims to take a clear position on Islam. Interestingly, this query is posed as a multiple choice question with only two options: reformed Islam (modernity) or religious extremism (barbarianism). The question is wrong. Modernity stands for a specific cultural context that does not necessarily produce progressive religious reforms. The Taliban, for instance, are a modern phenomenon, which evokes an instrumentalist reading of Islam to justify their political existence.  Shah, it seems, is guided by an outdated modernist assumption that Indian Islam needs reforms to face the challenges of the modern world. He is completely unaware of the fact that there is a strong Muslim middle class in India that does not find any contradiction between egalitarian Islamic principles and modern ideas. Even poor and marginalized Muslims are not attracted towards radicalism of any kind. They do not need any ulema or reformer to give them a prefect recipe for an ideal, reformed, modern Islam. My research (based on various studies, including the recent Pew Survey on religion in India) also shows that aggressive Hindutva has failed to provoke Muslims towards religious extremism. It simply means that Muslim communities practise modern Islam in a variety of ways. Hence, asking them to prove their modernity and take a position on religious barbarism is an insult to their collective existence. Shah’s self-obsession with his version of Islam as an ideal form is also questionable. Of course, everyone has his/her own way of relating to Allah. Ghalib, Shah, or Maududi cannot intervene in this intrinsic relationship. At the same time, this formal-informal link between a believer and Allah cannot be seen entirely as an individual pursuit. Shah wants us to believe that the public manifestation of faith, especially in political terms, would always be dangerous, communal, and violent. This claim is based on a deeply one-sided imagination of modern politics. CSDS-Lokniti surveys have shown that Muslim communities participate in democratic politics with great enthusiasm. Their religious faith and its public manifestation do not become a hurdle in asserting their status as voters and citizens. Shah actually follows the rigid conception of 19th-century European secularism that envisages a strict dividing line between the religion of an individual and his/her participation in politics. This form of secularism, the political theorist, Rajeev Bhargava, reminds us goes against the distinctiveness of the Indian version of constitutional secularism. Indian Constitution recognizes the cultural values of the public manifestation of religion to establish the unity in diversity principle. This brings me to another interesting notion — the cultural Muslims. The former parliamentarian, film-story writer and lyrist, Javed Akhtar (who describes himself as an equal opportunity atheist) is a vocal representative of this community. Akhtar employs a theory of comparison. He compares the Taliban with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh /Hindutva; he compares the Taliban’s decision to impose a ban on working women with those who support the practice of triple talaq in India. He also compares Hindu extremism with Muslim fundamentalism in India. These provocative comparisons are certainly important. There is a remarkable similarity between Hindu essentialism and Muslim extremism. However, one cannot universalize these similarities. Media-driven Hindutva politics that demonizes every aspect of collective Muslim existence in India does not need Asaduddin Owaisi, the Muslim Personal Law Board or the Shahi Imam to flourish. It has its own anti-Muslim agenda. Akhtar’s theory of comparison does not allow him to go beyond the dominant media-centric debates and discover the changing world of Indian communities. Pasmanda politics, which has raised the question of caste-based social stratification among Muslims, is a good example to underline the limitations of Akhtar’s comparison-based secularism. The All India Pasmanda Muslim Mahaz, led by the former MP, Ali Anwar Ansari, has recently published a small booklet in Hindi, “Sampradayik Dhruvikaran ka Sahi Ilaj, Jaati Janganana ke Liye ho jaaye Taiyyar (To counter communal polarization, be ready for caste-based census)”. Contextualizing the exclusion of OBC Muslims, this booklet offers us a creative explanation of the complex relationship between Hindutva and the Muslim caste question. It argues that the inclusion of Muslim and Christian Dalits in the scheduled caste list is inevitable for a wider secularization of our policy discourse. This form of affirmative action-based secularism, the Pasmanda Muslim groups seem to claim, can help us have an alternative vision of secularism. Their slogan, “Dalit pichhada ek saman, Hindu ho ya Musalman” is more nuanced than the rigid secularism of cultural Muslims. It would be completely inappropriate to disregard the opinions and views of great artists like Naseeruddin Shah and Javed Akhtar. They need not to do research projects before making public statements. Their freedom of expression must always be respected. At the same time, they are expected to be more informed, flexible and open. The liberal Islam/cultural Muslim framework they propose must accommodate subaltern voices and everyday forms of Islam. Otherwise, it would always remain elitist and exclusionary. We must remember that Muslim communities do not have any platform to express their views and assert their opinion. Hindutva politics, Muslim politicians, the media, the ulema, liberal Muslims, cultural Muslims, researchers and political commentators make observations on their behalf and ask them to behave in certain acceptable ways. Yet, Indian Muslims do not react. They remain calm, participate actively in democratic politics, and struggle for their rights as citizens in a constitutional manner. Their silence must be understood as a positive gesture in favour of democratic polity and social stability. After all, the subaltern cannot speak. Hilal Ahmed is Associate Professor, CSDS, New Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-26
