02-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: The salt of India’s earth||Diplomacy, it is often assumed, is the art of communicating through winks and nudges. Yet there are times when a message can be passed on without subterfuge. Consider Joe Biden’s recent remark on the relevance of M.K. Gandhi whose 152nd birth anniversary is being celebrated today. Speaking with the Indian prime minister beside him, the president of the United States of America chose to remind the world — and India — of the critical importance of Gandhian values in today’s world. Mr Biden’s reminder assumes significance in the context of New India’s problematic relationship with, arguably, its tallest leader. Usually, the Mahatma is invoked in the land of his birth through pageantry. Gandhi Jayanti — a public holiday — is marked with fervour each year; countless welfare programmes have been christened after this great man by successive political dispensations; texts and curriculum continue to pay their customary tributes to him. But India, new and old, has been guilty of trapping Gandhi within the narrow confines of reverence. The consequences of such veneration — even though Gandhi is remembered more in breach than in honour of the Gandhian spirit — have been the most explicit and worrying in the last few years. The distance between New India and the Father of the Nation — the crux of Mr Biden’s message? — could not have been starker than it is today. India’s pluralist fabric is in tatters with the republic’s seemingly enthusiastic embrace of a majoritarian sensibility. That a parliamentarian chose to glorify Gandhi’s murderer and, by that logic, the divisive ideology that Gandhi fought against and, ultimately, died for is indicative of the anti-Gandhian zeitgeist. Gandhi’s comprehension of caste had many critics: B.R. Ambedkar, another founding father, was among them. Yet, none can dispute the Mahatma’s antipathy towards institutionalized discrimination and violence perpetrated against social groups that are vulnerable, economically and socially. A little over seven decades after Gandhi’s martyrdom, a crime is committed against a Dalit every 10 minutes in this country. The Indian media’s peddling of false narratives, with social media as their cohort, would have also drawn a chuckle from that seeker of truth. Men and empires have ignored, laughed at and fought Gandhi but the man has, inevitably, emerged triumphant. He is likely to win the battle against New India’s amnesia too. This is because Gandhi’s endurance transcends his roles of politician — he was the real Chanakya — philosopher, social activist, champion of morality and so on. In its ceaseless campaigns against violence, inequality, ostentatiousness, material excess, ecological depredations, unimaginative mechanization, to cite a few among the long list of human follies, the Gandhian voice is, in essence, the voice of conscience itself. The human race, in spite of its reprehensible efforts across the ages, has not managed to silence it yet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-25
02-10-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: RSS mouthpiece attacks Amazon||Costly attack Sir — The right-wing magazine, Panchjanya, has accused Amazon of “taking steps to encircle the political, economic and individual freedom of people” and of assaulting Hindu values (“Feet in the fire”, Sep 30). This comes on the heels of a vicious attack on the home-grown information technology company, Infosys — Panchjanya alleged that the company was acting against India’s interests after some glitches were encountered on the income tax portal developed by Infosys. Shortly before that, the Union commerce minister, Piyush Goyal, had vilified the Tata group. If such unsubstantiated and disparaging comments continue to be made, foreign businesses will be increasingly reluctant to invest in India. This will further contribute to our economic woes. The government must condemn these comments. N. Sadhasiva Reddy,Bangalore Sir — It seems that after Infosys, Panchjanya has now targeted Amazon as an imagined enemy of the nation. These companies have provided employment to millions of Indians. Entrepreneurs such as Sachin Bansal and Binny Bansal — co-founders of Flipkart — had worked at Amazon before starting their own company. Panchjanya must show some restraint while writing about companies that have been instrumental in driving growth in India. Bal Govind,Noida Sir — It is curious that the corporate world — its members are known to be supporters of Narendra Modi — is now facing the ire of the right-wing machinery. Industry pioneers must speak up against this attack. Nitya Singh,Patna Curious omission Sir — A travel advisory issued by the United Kingdom stating that people from India will be considered “unvaccinated” even after two shots of Covishield — developed jointly by AstraZeneca and Oxford University, and manufactured by the Serum Institute of India — had sparked a controversy. The UK has now revised the travel rules, qualifying Covishield as an approved vaccine starting October 4 with some caveats such as even fully vaccinated passengers needing to quarantine themselves for a period. It is curious that only a handful of Asian countries are on the UK government’s approval list. This has led many to suggest that there might be a racist bias to the decision. The Indian government must seek answers. Venu G.S.,Kollam, Kerala Sir — Several European countries — Belgium, Switzerland, Germany, Spain among them — have recognized the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine manufactured by the SII unconditionally. There is no good reason why the UK is yet to do the same. Aparajita Saha,Calcutta  Mixed message Sir — The fibreglass statue of a girl staring impassively out of Bilbao’s River Nervion which caused a stir recently is not the only instance of ‘climate artivism’. Earlier, a polar bear sculpture had been floated down the Thames. While these are undoubtedly well-intended, what the pieces of art have in common is that they are, in essence, large chunks of plastic in a water body. Over a period of time, they will erode and leave the rivers more full of microplastics than before. The chemical in the paint on these will also impact marine ecosystems. Surely, this sends out a mixed message? Sucheta Iyer,Chennai Parting shot Sir — A large number of old houses in Calcutta have collapsed over the last few years. Several others are at a risk of crumbling soon. The excessive rainfall is not helping matters. What is worse, many recently constructed apartment buildings, too, do not have a firm foundation. This is dangerous for people living in these buildings. The municipal corporation should identify such houses and put in place appropriate safety measures. Utpal Kumar Basu,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-25
02-10-2021||Opinion||Green goodness: Chelsea Flower Show||Sitting opposite me at Chourangi, the new Bengali restaurant in London started by Anjan Chatterjee and Aditya Ghosh, was Sangeeta Datta’s husband, Soumilya, who revealed that having retired from banking, he had taken up gardening as a hobby — “I don’t know the names of all the flowers but everything in the garden is lovely”. This will make the Royal Horticultural Society very happy because it is trying to encourage more Indians to take up gardening. The RHS, established in 1804, runs the Chelsea Flower Show, which was pushed to September instead of May for the first time in 108 years. There was a profusion of blooms to delight the eye — everything from Dahlias to Chrysanthemums, Fuchsias, Clematis and Alliums. The RHS’s chief horticulturist, Guy Barter, said: “The Chelsea Flower Show is the flagship of the British gardening industry and a huge amount of our interest revolves around new plants that are introduced. Garden designers show off the best concepts, nurseries show the best plants. It’s the standard that everybody aims for.” But he also told me how easy it was to grow coriander, fenugreek, basil and other herbs, as well as aubergine, tomatoes, courgettes, peppers, chillies, carrots, onions and garlic for the Indian kitchen. Plants, he said, “give comfort to everybody. There’s lots of scientific research to prove that greenery and green space make people feel better. Gardening is a wonderful hobby, it’s very rewarding.” Rediscover Ray The British Film Institute is to pay a remarkable tribute to Satyajit Ray by showing all of his films, reveals author and film-maker, Sangeeta Datta, who will curate the season to mark the director’s 101st birthday next summer. Datta comes fresh from receiving a “Shera Bangali” award for her cultural work at last weekend’s UK Bengali Convention in the Cambridgeshire village of Cambourne. In fact, her documentary on Rituparno Ghosh, Bird of Dusk, closed the convention that united 55 Bengali organizations from across Britain in an inspiring celebration of “debate, music, adda, food”. Britain’s solidly middle-class Bengali community is well-represented in most professions, especially medicine, academia and the arts. “We have so many good things we can be proud of,” Anirban Mandal, one of the organizers, tells me. “Next year’s UKBC will be held in Manchester. Our aim is to pass on Bengali culture to the next generation.” Sangeeta makes the same point: “We have to engage with schools and colleges to bring in younger students. They don’t necessarily have to be film students because Ray’s films have so much to do with the history and sociology of Bengal.” The BFI’s plan was to mark the centenary of Ray’s birth on May 2, 2021 but this had to be pushed back because of the pandemic and also the delay in sourcing prints from the US film academy archives. Sangeeta hopes to discuss what it was like to work with Ray with the likes of Sharmila Tagore, Shabana Azmi, Deepankar De, Dhritiman Chatterjee and Barun Chanda. She says: “What I’m trying to do is not just show the films chronologically but to arrange them thematically and look at more imaginative ways of bringing younger people...” Artistic comeback Exhibitions are coming back. To coincide with the Chelsea Flower Show, the RHS Botanical Art & Photography Show was held at the Saatchi Gallery near Sloane Square. During the raj, British women painted the fauna and flora of India, with many examples among the 30,000 items held at the RHS Lindley Library in Vincent Square in London. I also visited the British Museum, which is holding an exhibition of 103 newly discovered drawings by Katsushika Hokusai, Japan’s most famous artist, best known for the Great Wave off Kanagawa. Curator Alfred Haft estimated that a third of the drawings in the exhibition related to Buddhism in India. What was remarkable, added Haft, was that Hokusai never left Japan but “allowed his imagination to roam India”. This year’s Summer Exhibition at the Royal Academy was pushed back to September from June for the first time in 253 years. This year it has been coordinated by the British-Nigerian artist, Yinka Shonibare, and, in the light of Black Lives Matter, was dominated by works from the African diaspora. But a few Indians, Shanti Panchal and Chila Burman among them, were included too. Woke reality Vivek Ramaswamy is an author whose book attacking big businesses, Woke, Inc. — Inside Corporate America’s Social Justice Scam, has attracted favourable attention in both America and Britain. Ramaswamy was born in Ohio of parents who emigrated from India 40 years ago. A graduate of Harvard College and Yale Law School, he founded Roivant Sciences, a bio-pharmaceutical company, in 2014. His main thesis is that corporate America is hypocritical — post Black Lives Matter it is making big bucks by paying lip service to the “woke” agenda, that is progressive and liberal causes. “Basically, being woke means obsessing about race, gender, and sexual orientation,” claims Ramaswamy. “Maybe climate change too. That’s the best definition I can give.” FOOTNOTE Incidentally, I noted two Indian touches at the Chelsea Flower Show this year. At one shop, Nehru jackets and waistcoats, tailored exquisitely from Italian wool and costing £350 and £250 respectively, were flying off the racks. Meanwhile, a Shropshire company called Wilstone, run by Christo McKinnon who has toured India for some 30 years, was displaying stone and wooden carvings fashioned for him by skilled artisans in Rajasthan and Gujarat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-25
02-10-2021||Opinion||Dangerous populism||It seems sacrilegious to say today of all days that much of the cant and corruption that shroud India can be laid at Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi’s door. Not that Gandhi Jayanti is left with much of the remembered atmosphere of overpowering sanctity. Richard Symonds, the young English Quaker whom the Mahatma befriended in Delhi, might have denied any inconsistency even in some club bars remaining open today: he remembered that Gandhi regarded porter, a heavy dark beer brewed from malt, as medicinal because his landlady in London had forced him to drink it when he was unwell and it tasted so horrible. Nevertheless, the day is of consequence because Gandhi’s widely-publicized reverence for Daridranarayan set an unattainable ideal of probity, which widened the gulf between practice and precept. One result was that India’s 2019 election was reckoned the costliest in the world. Another is pious posturing. If Jawaharlal Nehru reportedly claimed to live on fifty rupees a month, Narendra Modi got away with “Hum to fakir aadmi hai, jhola leke chal padenge.” Such legacies make it impossible to speculate on the likely consequences of Gandhi’s (or Christ’s) return to earth. Conjecture is simpler when the subject is someone more easily grasped like Nehru whose “internal elegance — an absence of all coarseness” struck the Australian diplomat, Walter Crocker, so forcefully. “It was not for nothing”, Crocker wrote, “that one of his [Nehru’s] severest animadversions was ‘vulgar’.” Since propaganda is by definition vulgar, it’s difficult to think of what is not vulgar about a regime that steals credit by changing the names of existing schemes, emblazons certificates and other communications with its leader’s mugshot and slogans, and is now thought to bask in a global role, thanks to Joe Biden and the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue although Australia’s Scott Morrison won the Sheriff’s role. Tastelessness and mismanagement are not confined to one party. If Mamata Banerjee is “shocked and stunned” at aspects of New Delhi’s conduct, Bengalis are also shocked and stunned at so many people, including two young girls, being electrocuted because of poor maintenance resulting from political rapacity and administrative negligence. One is humbled by the pluck of the bereaved mother who responded to the state government’s compensation of Rs 2 lakhs by offering to give double that amount to have her 13-year-old daughter back. While the pandemic has heightened what Arun Maira calls the “clash between the needs of humanity and the principles of capitalism”, a certain coarseness had begun to disfigure society’s higher echelons much earlier. Perhaps it was always there but undetected. Not many Indians noticed or understood the sensitivity that prompted Lord Pethick-Lawrence, the saintly socialist secretary of state for India, to refuse to enter G.D. Birla’s house when visiting India in 1946 as part of the British Cabinet Mission; he waited in his car under the jamun trees outside for Gandhi’s emissary, Sudhir Ghosh. Money is being made and squandered in the midst of destitution, underscoring the relevance of Edward Heath’s comment about “the unpleasant and unacceptable face of capitalism”. Apart from the extravagance of Air India One, which flew Modi non-stop to the Washington summit and the lavish investments abroad by India’s tycoons, a small indication of the overwhelming vulgarization of society is the dazzle of jewellers’ shops extending in a chain of gold and glitter even in unpretentious middle-class areas like Calcutta’s Rashbehari Avenue. The 13-month (at the time of writing) farmers’ agitation more specifically confirms crony capitalism, disdain for outsiders, and administrative incompetence. Nothing could contrast more sharply with the pride, concern, vision and firmness with which Lee Kuan Yew responded in 1980 to the work-to-rule agitation by Singapore Airlines pilots. When their recalcitrance disrupted a London-Dubai flight, Lee summoned the striking pilots to his office and ordered them, out of sight of TV cameras, “Get back to work, restore discipline, then argue your case.” They capitulated in 65 minutes because they knew that the airline would otherwise be grounded. “Whoever governs Singapore must have that iron in him,” Lee explained. “Or give it up. This is not a game of cards. This is your life and mine. I spent a whole lifetime building this. And as long as I’m in charge, nobody’s going to knock it down.” An Indian politician would have considered only the strikers’ castes, the vote banks they represented, the amount of money received in donations, bonds or whatever from them as well as from the airline, and the danger of rival parties wooing the disgruntled pilots. Social disruption, economic stability, public convenience, a State-owned institution’s reputation, and the loss of millions of dollars in sales and advertising would have been of no concern. The political mentality has not changed since it was fashionable to chant “Sarkar ka maal, pani me dal!” A crucial test of civilization lies in how power is handled. There could be no more revealing contrast in that respect than between last Sunday’s jejune elation over the prime minister’s American visit and Indira Gandhi’s rejection of Lee’s pleadings to move into Southeast Asia when Britain withdrew 50 years ago. Shrewd and realistic, Mrs Gandhi knew — as Lee acknowledged many years later — that an India that was beset with domestic problems and hostile neighbours did not have the capacity to invest in the security of what European geographers once called Further India but which is now a buoyant region of nation-states with vigorous economic and political agendas. As China’s ambassador to India, Sun Weidong, must know despite his formal protest against the trilateral Aukus, Modi does not face the responsibility Mrs Gandhi rejected. If the treaty charges anyone with underwriting regional security, it’s Morrison who will get eight nuclear submarines (to start with) for the task. Some 20 years ago, another Australian prime minister, John Howard, invited George W. Bush’s rebuke by calling himself America’s “deputy sheriff”. “There’s nothing deputy about this relationship,” Bush clarified; Australia was an “equal partner” and Howard a full-fledged sheriff. Yet, New Delhi’s opinion-makers gloat over what they call the prime minister’s bid for global leadership and imagine he will pick up Security Council membership on the way. Even Biden’s reference to “a shared responsibility to uphold democratic values” must be read with the Economist Intelligence Unit’s finding that the global ranking of India’s “flawed democracy” has “slipped from 27th (in 2014) to 53rd” because of “democratic backsliding by the authorities and crackdowns on civil liberties...”. His mention of a “joint commitment to diversity” (also stressed by the vice-president, Kamala Harris) may have reminded Modi of the EIU’s charge that he had “introduced a religious element to the conceptualisation of Indian citizenship, a step that many critics see as undermining the secular basis of the Indian state”. As for Biden’s reference to “four million Indian Americans who make the United States stronger every single day”, America’s gain is India’s loss: those four million are there only because India cannot provide for its children. It’s not spoken of only because, as the president also said, India’s journalists are “much better behaved” (meaning mealy-mouthed) than their American counterparts. People might applaud humongous statuary, outsize turbans, boasts about intimacy with the world’s movers and shakers, reinvention of the capital city, ostentatious consumerism and steady movement towards a majoritarian ethic. But, as Gandhi warned, “Those who claim to lead the masses must resolutely refuse to be led by them, if we want to avoid mob law and desire ordered progress for the country.” It’s also worth recalling this Gandhi Jayanti that someone who refused to be called a saint who had strayed into politics, much preferring the description of “a politician who is trying to become a saint”, understood the perils of populism.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-26
