03-10-2021||Opinion||Crumpled spaces||As I write this sentence, a seven year old sits a few feet away from me. His eyes are closed. Through the darkness, he is trying to see the soft sitar music playing before him. Trances don’t happen easily to him. But he’s in school now, waiting for his first session to begin: Circle Time. As a writer, I’m used to a small and portable office that I can rest on my lap, a screen my field of vision, a keyboard my sphere of action. But it’s now been over 18 months that my son has had his school in a laptop. All of Class II has gone by and, now, much of Class III, too, has sprouted inside a screen. As I write this, the pandemic moves through the uneasy, jagged rhythm of ups and downs around the world and we claw through the nightmare that was this summer in this country. Struck by the pain of our children losing their childhood and aware of the privilege of affording an uninterrupted virtual ‘education’ throughout, many of us wilt before the possible dangers of sending our unvaccinated children back to reopened campuses trying to clean the rust on their gates. Some of us, possibly most of us who read this newspaper regularly, are among the minority in this country for whose families, the remote classroom, howsoever unsatisfactory, has provided some sad semblance of learning continuity. I also count myself among those with the privilege of space, that I have a separate room in which to work — to write and to teach my own virtual classes — while others in the family carry on with their official and educational lives from their own zones. But a seven year old is the least mindful of his own private space — certainly a lot less than a teenage child would be — and it is with a longing for intimacy that I make it a practice to sit and work in his room through the mornings. It is, in effect, living in his classroom. The children talk about dreams. What dreams they have had, what do dreams mean to them. “Saisha just said that dreams are horror,” my son turns to me and says as I try to sharpen a sentence. “That’s a nightmare, isn’t it?” I say, without looking up. “But she said dream.” “Niya said her dream was to become an interior decorator,” he reports. I tell him to pay attention to his class. It’s my way of guarding my private wall of the mind, frail against attacks by a chattering seven year old. I eavesdrop just in time. “Dreams are things that I wish,” he says when his turn comes. I hear things I’ve told him: dreams are sometimes made of things that you want, or things that you fear. Of course, I did not take Freud’s name. He might have said Fried. I remember my own childhood, when the first mention of Freud had sounded delicious: Freud-fried, a well-fried slip. It’s not entirely unlike when an undergraduate student includes bits of your own phrase in his presentation, or when a doctoral student quotes your sentences in her thesis. But it’s different too. Not just because the wisdom was shared under a sleep-inducing blanket, but more importantly, it was a raft offered to someone just learning to drift through the waters, not of an academic subject but of life itself. What about the dreams and nightmares I meet in my virtual office? Concentration marks itself as crucial for any writer, artist, or thinker. Pandemic-era space sharing tells me there is only one thing more important than concentration. Distraction. For those of us lucky enough to hold on to life and livelihood these last couple of years, what have we lost? Life itself: the touch of air on an unmasked face, the joys of recreational travel, the frustrating thrill of a crowded Puja pandal, whiling away time in a pub or a teashop with strangers without fear in our lungs. If you’ve been lucky enough to continue working, work is all you’ve got, because Zoom meetings and classes do not even require climbing the stairs or taking a break in the cafeteria, or smiling at a stranger in the elevator — the odd punctuation marks of living that we now know used to make up a life. For the writer for whom solitude and isolation are currency, there has been wealth of one kind, but great poverty in the very breath of life. What a gift it is, this clangour of articulated dreams in the middle of the sentence to which I’m trying to give form? “Ma’am, I have put the straws through the bottle,” a small voice asks next to me. “Do these balloons now look like our lungs?” How does one shape a world in one’s head and give it language while a small one erupts a few feet from you and insists on your attention? “It’s raining too heavily and my chhole-sprout will die so what will I show in class?” One shapes, I realize, new worlds with weird delight! I remember telling my university writing class, held in the campus dhaba, that it’s a good idea to take one’s attention off the class discussion from time to time and eavesdrop on the conversation in the next table, for what is the art of writing, indeed, without love for gossip? How do I pull myself away from the tiny heap of gossip next to me as I write? He jumps on the bed in between classes. I ask him not to mess and crumple his shirt as he has more classes coming up. “Don’t worry, papa,” he tells me, “I’ll ‘touch up my appearance’ on Zoom so nobody will understand anything.” There is space and the blankness I’m given purely as a function of my gender. The endless queries of domestic life, kitchen and housekeeping decisions that could be resolved there but never are intrude not in my home working space but that of my partner. Domestic distraction and childcare demands punctuate and interrupt the working life of countless female colleagues I know, all around the world, far more than even those men who have tried to deepen their domestic selves during what has been the strangest phase of confinement and disembodiment in our lives. My sharing the seven year old’s classroom is a choice, initiated by the impulse to be a warm, breathing body in what I see for him is a laptop with human voices and silhouettes of human form struggling within. I’ve always wanted to be in his classroom, be a sleeping presence there. What I did not reckon was how it would reshape my working, thinking, writing life. If and when we can look forward to our home and work spaces to return to their original, disassociated locations, we will take away from this prolonged sickness a warm, sticky, noisy cohabitation of life and work that is likely to realign our work-life relationship forever. Home, office, and school have shared the crumpled bed for too long. Even when they return to their spaces, they won’t quite be the same again, not in our lifetime. Saikat Majumdar is Professor of English and Creative Writing at Ashoka University||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-25
03-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Fairies with pens||Once upon a time, there was a woman with a story to tell. Along came a man, rewrote her stories, and sold it to the public as his own. Research on the provenance of fairytales by Ruth B. Bottigheimer of Stony Brook University, New York, has revealed that the first edition of fairy tales by the likes of Giambattista Basile, Charles Perrault and the Grimms cited women — grandmothers, society matriarchs — as the original spinners of these stories. Unsurprisingly, under the male gaze of the new chroniclers, the original narratives were tweaked, transforming rich reflections on the experiences of women of flesh and blood into unimaginative, but socially conformist, plots. For instance, before the Grimms waved their wand of propriety over the tale of Rapunzel, she and the prince were said to have spent most days together in her tower of isolation, until the princess remarks to her foster mother that her clothes fit more tightly than before, indicating premarital pregnancy. Bibbidi-bobbidi-boo went the Grimms and turned Rapunzel into a damsel in distress, waiting to be rescued by the proverbial — male — knight in shining armour. Hearteningly, women writers — fairies with pens — are now reclaiming storytelling. From Amazon’s recent retelling of Cinderella, where she seeks salvation not in the arms of a prince but through her own creativity in fashion designing, to books like Fierce Fairytales and Girls to the Rescue, women screenwriters and authors are reimagining fairytales in a more egalitarian light. Purists will no doubt gasp and reach for a poisoned apple at the prospect of such alterations, arguing that this spells doom for the fables that have been passed down through the generations. But in reality, feminist retellings of fairytales might be seen as a reclamation of the original spirit of fairytales that were not so biased in favour of men. In fact, a recent study conducted by The Washington Post showed that while earlier adaptations of fairytales by Disney divided dialogues equally between princesses and princes, heroines were given fewer and fewer dialogues since the 1980s and ’90s. At their core, however, fairytales are about much more than who saves whom from the ivory tower. The reason fairytales are universally cherished is because they illustrate humanity’s deepest fears and desires that transcend the barriers of time and geography. The story of Cinderella, for example, has been the subject of Italian operas, Russian ballets, and even Japanese kabuki plays, but each of these versions puts its own unique twist in the tale. Change, then, is the only constant when it comes to fairytales. Conversely, in real life, the more things change, the more they remain the same. Reading the patriarchal adaptations of fairytales is a chilling reminder that medieval notions about women and who controls their bodies have proved to be as resilient as the chivalrous knight. A 2016 study on the working of Special Courts under the POCSO Act in Delhi found many judges unwilling to convict adolescent boys of assault for forcibly kissing a girl. Little wonder then that Sleeping Beauty’s beau found it perfectly acceptable to kiss a sleeping woman without her consent. Refreshingly, rewritten fairytales are accommodating the possibility of transformations, such as a world that is more equal for women.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-25
03-10-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Journalists and philosophers do have a lot in common||Spot the difference Sir — The Union minister for women and child development, Smriti Irani, claims that India has the highest number of women in political offices globally if one includes female members of panchayat. It is common knowledge that in most of these cases, the women are just figureheads and the decision-making rests with their male family members. But the more important question is this: since women are not a homogenous group — caste, religion, geography divide them — what is the guarantee that the women who get elected will represent the interests of all their peers? Jharna Murmu, Jhargram Kindred spirits Sir — As strange as it may seem at first, philosophers and journalists do have a lot in common (“Philosopher’s stone”, Sep 29). Both analyse facts, pursue the truth, ask whether objectivity is possible and have a tendency of becoming passionately involved in the politics of ethics. Yet, there exists a chasm between the two worlds that neither side is ready to breach. If this gap is breached, both professions can benefit. Some of the ways have been outlined by Uddalak Mukherjee in his article. Besides those, philosophers can draw out the philosophical implications of stories in the news as well as improve the work of advocacy that journalists undertake — especially editorial boards — in public interest. Without journalists, philosophers would have nothing to analyse. It is the news and happenings from around the world that journalists carefully search out that allow philosophical thought to progress. Abhay Kashyap, Gurgaon Image matters Sir — While the entire nation celebrated Gandhi Jayanti yesterday, Madurai was ahead of the rest of India when it organized the centenary celebrations of M.K. Gandhi’s ‘dress revolution’ that took place there on September 22, 1921. Here Gandhi shed his Western attire and chose to wear a shawl and a half-dhoti, which remained his chosen apparel till his death. Gandhi’s iconic makeover went on to make him the symbol of the common man and bore testament to his spiritual strength. It is a matter of great pride that Gandhi elected the path of truth and simplicity to lead the nation to freedom. Ranganathan Sivakumar, Chennai Sir — On his trip to Madurai to urge civil disobedience among people, Mahatma Gandhi realized that the poor of his country were too poor to afford even khadi. This led him to shed his traditional Gujarati garb and don the legendary loincloth that later became synonymous with him. One hundred years later, at a time when the number of poor has increased to a staggering 134 million in India, the country’s prime minister shed his absent-minded ascetic image with a beard and hair trim before travelling to the United States of America. Image, truly, is everything. K.K. Navada, Udupi, Karnataka Hot wheels Sir — The bicycle sharing system introduced by the Greater Chennai Corporation was welcomed by one and all. But the programme seems to be running at a loss. The primary reason behind this is the exorbitant rent. While the charge of Rs 5.50 for the first hour for the next-gen and the eco-bike is reasonable, Rs 9.90 for the subsequent half an hour is too high for the common people who avail this service. The charges for the electric cycle are even more expensive where after Rs 10 for the first 10 minutes, one has to shell out Re 1 per minute. Unless the rates are made affordable, the programme would continue to incur a loss. N. Mahadevan, Chennai Parting shot Sir — It is encouraging that the Institute of Neurosciences, Kolkata has started a monthly cognitive reorientation clinic for dementia patients. Mental health needs more attention in India. Pranav Mishra, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-25
03-10-2021||Opinion||Why a split now may end up saving the Congress||Split to survive Amidst the serious churn within the Congress, friendly parties appear to be more worried about its fate than its own leadership. While some Opposition leaders are praying for an amicable resolution to the crisis, there are others who are eagerly waiting to poach the defectors. Many regional parties doubt the chances of a revival and some of them have even set their sights on a leadership role in the 2024 general elections. But one regional party leader, an exceptional sympathizer of the Congress, had an interesting theory. He said the Congress should split now: the sooner the better. He argued that the Congress history reveals it can rejuvenate after splits and the party hasn’t suffered any serious jolts for long. He insisted that Rahul Gandhi was faced with similar dilemmas as his grandmother, Indira Gandhi, who emerged stronger after the split in the party in 1969. Jawaharlal Nehru survived after the socialists and some trusted colleagues deserted him to form the Praja Socialist Party and the Swatantra Party. The party led by PV Narasimha Rao survived when the veterans, Arjun Singh and ND Tiwari, walked out with a significant number of followers. Even Sonia Gandhi survived when Sharad Pawar, PA Sangma and Tariq Anwar broke away to form the NCP. Rahul is probably fated to suffer the same experience before the party rises again. Keep calm and carry on The focus of the media may be on the newly appointed ministers in the Narendra Modi government, but it is the finance minister, Nirmala Sitharaman, who is creating a buzz in the corridors of power. The first full-time woman finance minister of the country is being praised not so much for her handling of the economy, but for her transformation. She had attracted attention as a spokesperson of the Bharatiya Janata Party, particularly for her feisty responses to political rivals, which were sometimes considered arrogant. Her temper continued to rise even after she was made the defence minister in the first tenure of the Modi government. Her ire against the Congress over the Rafale deal controversy had become a talking point. It was widely felt that she was yet to overcome the ‘spokesperson syndrome’. But as finance minister in the second Modi government, Sitharaman seems to have transformed into a silent worker. Friendly ties Most senior Jawaharlal Nehru University students saw Kanhaiya Kumar’s defection to the Congress coming given the tumultuous relationship he had with the Communist Party of India. The rivalry between him and Aparajitha, an AISF leader in JNU and daughter of the party chief, D Raja, is no secret. However, the subject of memes and jibes among students over the past week has been Anshul Trivedi — a lesser-known former JNU activist of the SFI-breakaway, Democratic Students’ Federation, and aide to the Congress stalwart, Digvijaya Singh. Bhopal-based Trivedi — of CPI roots in Indore — also formally joined the Congress soon after Kanhaiya. Trivedi has been working for Singh since 2018 but maintained close personal ties with Left groups on campus and Kanhaiya. The DSF campaigned for Kanhaiya in Begusarai in 2019. The organization condemned Kanhaiya’s defection and many blame Trivedi for facilitating the bonhomie between the Congress and the larger Left fold with Kanhaiya in the last two years. Change of guard The election for the post of Bhubaneswar Club’s president was billed to be the battle of titans and it lived up to the hype. It generated unprecedented excitement with two former chief secretaries locking horns. The city’s elite club is a de facto bureaucratic power centre. Hence the battle between Asit Kumar Tripathy (1986 batch IAS) and Bijay Kumar Patnaik (1976 batch IAS) — both have served as chief secretaries of the state under the chief minister, Naveen Patnaik — expectedly created quite a stir. There was even talk of the chief minister’s office being involved in the election. Tripathy emerged victorious by a convincing margin of 278 votes. This proved that the officer, who was appointed principal adviser to the chief minister and chairperson of Western Odisha Development Council following his retirement as chief secretary last year, is not only more popular than Bijay Kumar Patnaik, who is much senior to him, but also enjoys the blessings of the powers that be. Another message from the contest was that the time is up for the old guard. Silent treatment Congress seniors are clearly still upset about having been sidelined by the new leadership in Kerala. This became evident at a time when allegations are rife against the Congress state president, K Sudhakaran, whose friendship with a con artist and quack has put the party in a fix. Sudhakaran could not but admit that he had consulted Monson Mavunkal, a recently arrested scamster and self-styled antique dealer and ‘cosmetologist’, to treat some skin issue. But neither Oommen Chandy nor Ramesh Chennithala has uttered a word in defence of their party chief. Peeved at being ignored while hand-picking new office bearers, the two leaders who once called the shots seem to speak louder with their silence. Footnote BS Yediyurappa certainly has his ways. The BJP veteran who was forced to resign as CM in July has been trying to claw his way back. After the party decided against giving his son, BY Vijayendra, a cabinet position, Yediyurappa’s die-hard loyalist and then political secretary, MP Renukacharya, was removed from a powerful position too. But now Renukacharya has been reinstated in the same position in a clear sign of influence over the CM. There is more drama in the offing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-25
