04-10-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Secular India takes strength from Bengal bypoll results||Ignorance is not bliss Sir — Within minutes of its release, the third season of the Netflix show, Sex Education, entered the list of top 10 most watched programmes in India. This might actually teach Indian teenagers things that schools and society do not. In fact, the chapter conspicuous by its absence in the new National Education Policy is the one on sex education. This assumes importance in light of a recent UK study that shows that sexual violence — on the rise in India — is directly proportional to a lack of sex education. Jhelum Roy Chowdhury, Calcutta Undisrupted reign Sir — The chief minister of West Bengal, Mamata Banerjee, has won the bypolls with a thumping majority from the Bhowanipore constituency. Although this was a foregone conclusion, the thing to watch out for was the margin of her victory. By yesterday evening, she was already leading by more than 58,000 votes — an all-time record — signalling a crushing defeat for the Bharatiya Janata Party. But more important is the Trinamul Congress’s dominance in the Jangipur and Samserganj constituencies — this shows that the people of Bengal are unequivocal in their rejection of the BJP. Secular India takes strength from the results in Bengal. Banerjee is also a prominent leader on the national political stage. She respects pluralism and the Constitution; this makes Banerjee a good prime ministerial candidate. G. David Milton, Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — The fact that Mamata Banerjee increased her victory margin considerably since the last election goes to show that the BJP has ceded some ground in Bengal. But the victory should not make Banerjee or the TMC complacent. In fact, it was the results of the last Lok Sabha elections in Bengal that had delivered a jolt to the TMC leader. But given her political acumen, Banerjee was quick to respond and take corrective measures. There are bigger battles ahead and Banerjee should recall the fate of the erstwhile Left government if she feels complacency slipping in. Shyamal Biswas, Calcutta Sir — The BJP did not expect to win Bhowanipore, which has long been Mamata Banerjee’s fief. Yet, it did try to send a message by flying in heavyweight Union ministers like Smriti Irani and Hardeep Singh Puri to campaign for its candidate. Yet, the margin of over 58,000 votes proves that the BJP has failed terribly in dividing the people of Bengal — it tried to provoke the Sikh and Hindu residents of the area against Banerjee. Manjeet Bedi, Calcutta Sir — No one is really surprised at Mamata Banerjee’s victory, especially since she was fighting a political lightweight. While her victory is laudable, only time will tell if more laurels — she is being projected to lead the Opposition in the 2024 general elections — are in store in the future. Murtaza Ahmad, Calcutta Sir — As the reports of Mamata Banerjee’s massive lead started to come in, TMC supporters hit the streets across the state to celebrate her win with abir. The BJP candidate, Priyanka Tibrewal, wrote to the acting chief justice of the Calcutta High Court, Rajesh Bindal, urging him to order the police to take steps to prevent incidents of violence. Given the BJP’s resounding loss, perhaps she should have written to her own party instead. Bhagwan Thadani, Mumbai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-24
04-10-2021||Opinion||Past and present||Students of an esoteric line of English literature know of the great sermon writers of the seventeenth century: John Donne, Lancelot Andrewes, Jeremy Taylor. There are hardly any matching names from the sixteenth century. For much of that period, clergymen were actually barred from delivering sermons. Church services without sermons? Not quite. Sermons were essential spiritual fare; but they were served out of tins, as it were. There were books of approved, ready-made sermons that the priest read out in church. Adding their own words could invite retribution. Edmund Grindal, Archbishop of Canterbury, went so far as to encourage inspirational preaching. He was sequestered, somewhat as civil servants today are suspended. He was not, after all, the head of the Church: that role was reserved for the monarch. This is among the many sinister features of the golden Elizabethan Age. Like most States at all times, it was a police and surveillance regime. Christopher Marlowe was both dramatist and spy, and met with a messy end in the latter pursuit. Philip Sidney, the flower of Renaissance court culture, married the daughter of Elizabeth’s chief spymaster and torturer. But Sidney himself attacked the Queen’s foreign policy and was banished from court. Ben Jonson was jailed for a ‘mutinous’ play. Shakespeare narrowly escaped the same fate when an old political drama of his was staged on the eve of an abortive uprising. Across Europe, politics was steeped in religion. Everyone was Christian except for a sprinkling of Jews (none in England, which had expelled them 300 years earlier). But the precise shade of Christianity could spell life or death. Thousands died for not chanting a particular religious formula, or disputing the exact composition of the holy bread of the Eucharist. The Catholic Church sent undercover priests to England — to preach their faith, they said; to spread sedition, said the State, which therefore imprisoned, tortured and killed them. Home-grown Catholics were fined and their movements watched. They were barred from universities and government jobs. The Church of England was formed when Elizabeth’s father, Henry VIII, quarrelled with the pope for disallowing his divorce from the first of his six wives. This unedifying claim to Protestantism did not impress more committed Protestants, or Puritans, whose radicalism appeared in both politics and direct action. Their more extreme and disorganized groups found favour among the poor. There were a lot of poor people around, ousted from traditional farmlands now enclosed for sheep-rearing to serve the growing wool trade and industry. Bands of dispossessed peasants roamed the countryside. Forests were destroyed, their dwellers and wildlife dislodged, for mining and iron smelting. The poet, Michael Drayton, has a harrowing account of the ecological disaster. So what’s new in all this? Nothing, of course. Such evil and disorder are as old as humankind. One could write a similar, entirely factual account of what we call the golden age of Greece, some 2,500 years ago. For self-protection, let me steer clear of India’s past. But Europe and England’s past bristles with parallels to India’s present. Some are piquant and vaguely endearing, as between Elizabethan London and today’s Calcutta. Others are disorienting, like the long series implicit in my account above. But why should they disturb us, as they seem universal and inevitable? Because two profound changes have occurred in between. One is the scientific revolution. We now understand the material universe as never before: what it contains (and does not contain), how it works, how we can employ its forces — for evil, certainly, but also for good. The other revolution is profounder still: a sense of the value and dignity of the core human condition irrespective of gender, race, class, faith or any other add-on. It teaches us (what would have seemed an absurd notion as late as the European Renaissance) that all individuals have equal right and equal ability to live freely and fully in body and mind. It introduces such novel ideas as welfare, progress, and a diversity bonded by mutual respect. The two revolutions are linked: intellectually by their foundation in rational thought; historically by their concurrence in the European Enlightenment of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries. That is the source of their impact on the modern world, though many elements, especially logical and mathematical thinking, had glorious multiple origins long before, abundantly and memorably in our own land among others. Hence, we cannot take heart that Homer’s or Shakespeare’s age was no better than ours. We can no longer accept on mythological ‘evidence’ that ancient India had television and plastic surgery; that the cow exhales oxygen and the peacock impregnates the peahen with its tears; or — an easy jump in illogic — that people of one caste, gender or faith are genetically, thus ‘scientifically’ superior. Nor can we humanly justify such ideas. There is too much evidence of the human potential released if we break such barriers of the mind. Or to phrase it the right way, there is too much joy and reward in viewing all fellow humans as we view ourselves, wishing for them what we wish for ourselves. Once that happens, we will not, as we now do, drag those holding such liberating views to jail without trial or reprieve. We will not consign ‘those not like us’ to systemic deprivation in body and mind: in our schools, our economy, our whole process of rule. We will not sit unmoved while a million uprooted humans tramp the nation’s highways, or congregations of tense women across India keep vigil to assert their claim to their motherland. We will not kill a man for calling god, who understands all tongues, by a name other than ours. Once that happens, we will have passed beyond set sermons to a living faith as diverse as there are people. As diverse as India. This piece is offered to the memory of Swapan Chakravorty. Over 49 years, he taught me many lessons in exploring past texts and cultures, and bringing them to bear on the lived reality of our times. Sukanta Chaudhuri is Professor Emeritus, Jadavpur University||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-24
04-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Beyond digital ||Erroneous diagnoses can be fatal. India’s healthcare system has, for long, suffered from several ailments — poor accessibility and insufficient number of medical personnel are among them — for which no effective solution has yet been found. Instead, the government has now launched the Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission to digitize personal medical records using a unique health identification number and create national registries for doctors and health facilities across the country. The aim is to use portable medical records to facilitate interactions among health experts and improve monitoring of public health. The intent may be laudable. But this is not to say that the initiative is free from deficiencies. The reasons are manifold. First, there is concern that the scheme could further deepen the urban-rural divide in terms of access to healthcare. Rural India, comprising 65 per cent of India’s population, struggles to get basic medical support — around 60 per cent of primary health centres have only one doctor while about five per cent have none — let alone possess such infrastructure as reliable internet connectivity to digitize medical records. India’s poor digital outreach is also evident from previous digitization drives — until April this year, only two crore registrations for the Covid-19 vaccine out of the total of 14 crore had been made through the CoWin portal. More importantly, digital enumeration has a chequered history in the country: prior to the pandemic, a report found that 102 million people, including children, homeless citizens and sexual minorities did not possess Aadhaar cards. The demands of diligent data entry are also likely to push an already strained, understaffed health sector to the brink. Given these constraints as well as the perpetual paucity of funds, it would be wiser to opt for a piecemeal approach. Digitization for health portability must be complemented by a simultaneous thrust to modernize physical health infrastructure along with the recruitment of trained physicians and supplementary staff, especially for rural India. There is also an additional challenge. With the new personal data protection bill still pending before a joint parliamentary committee, voluntary registration for this centralized system is effectively being carried out in a regulatory vacuum. The lack of legally enforceable accountability is particularly risky in a sector dominated by vested private interests — 62 per cent of all Indian health infrastructure is private. The concern is not about patient confidentiality alone; without robust technological infrastructure and tight data privacy laws, even national security could be jeopardized — there have been reports of hacking attempts by China on the Aadhaar data base. In the absence of a comprehensive data law, the pursuit of digitization could bring its own pitfalls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-24
04-10-2021||Opinion||Politics by other means ||According to Joseph Kallarangatt, the Catholic bishop of Pala, Muslims in Kerala are pursuing a sinister plot against his flock. They make matrimonial forays and narcotic infiltrations into the fold and lure gullible youths to their doom. A senior priest, Roy Kannanchira, also alleged that nine Catholic girls were lured away by Ezhava ‘enemies’, especially trained for the purpose. This invited a searing rebuff from Vellappally Natesan of the Ezhava community. Unnerved, the priest withdrew his allegation and apologized. Another priest spewed communal poison against the Muslims in the chapel of a convent in Kuravilangad. Four nuns boycotted the proceedings in protest. Kannanchira’s apology can mean only this: the alleged ‘love jihad’ against Catholic youth is a spectre of Kallarangatt’s subjectivity. It undermines the credibility of the bishop’s charges. Why does the bishop stand firm while the priest becomes apologetic in an identical situation? There is only one explanation for this. It is counterproductive to provoke the Ezhavas, whereas it is profitable to bait the sorely besieged Muslims. This view is reinforced by the striking similarity between the strategy of the Catholic Church in Kerala and that of the sangh parivar nationally. Both need the Muslim community as a hate object. The bishop’s ‘narcotics jihad’ allegation is shrewdly timed. The capture of Afghanistan by the Taliban, the most-feared hybrid of terrorism and narcotics, provides the ideal moment to raise the spectre of a ‘narcotics jihad’ unleashed by ‘sleeping Muslim terror cells’ in Kerala. In this, the operative mindset is that of the sangh parivar. Whether the Pala bishop plagiarized it opportunely or was tutored in it by an interested party remains to be settled. It is easy to see why the Syro-Malabar Catholic Church is forced to resort to the ‘religion-is-in-danger’ bogey. It has suffered a series of moral earthquakes. In the Sister Abhaya murder case, a priest and a nun have been proved guilty and condemned to life-long imprisonment. Since that murder, dead bodies of around 20 nuns have been recovered from various convent wells. Major Archbishop George Alencherry is due to undergo trial for alleged fraudulent land deals. Bishop Franco Mulakkal, accused of raping a nun, is facing trial. Orchestrated resistance to corruption and venality in the church is gathering momentum. Lay defiance of the church’s authority, unimaginable in the Catholic Church till recently, is becoming the new normal. The resultant insecurity is aggravated by political and economic factors. Politically, the power-base of the Catholic Church — the Catholics comprise 60 per cent of Christians in Kerala — has been weakened by two factors. First, the shift in the calculus of electoral politics. The Kerala Congress (M), the main plank of the church’s captive vote bank, has split and its backbone has shifted from the Congress-led alliance. The emergence of the Marxists as the domineering political force in Kerala — the party that the Catholic Church dislodged from power in 1958-59 — is not exactly good news for the bishops’ lobby. This also means that Christians no longer vote as directed by the church hierarchy. On the economic and educational front, the pre-eminence that the church enjoyed in the northern part of Kerala has come under serious challenge from Muslims, who have made significant gains in the last three decades. This is reinforced further by their demographic gains. Muslims are the only community in Kerala to have gained steadily on the population front. They formed 17.5 per cent of Kerala’s population in 1901. The figure rose to 26.56 per cent by 2011. During the same period, Christians grew from 16.3 per cent to 18.3 per cent. It is a widely known secret that the church leaders are keenly mindful of the economic underbelly of demographic shifts. This has been, though unacknowledged, a major determinant in conversion drives as well. Kerala’s Hindus have registered a steady decline in proportionate terms, falling from 68.5 per cent of the population in 1901 to 54.9 per cent by 2011. This lends teeth to Natesan’s attack on the Christian community for its hypocrisy. Thousands of Hindus — the Ezhavas, in particular — have been, he alleges, lured away from their religious homes. While church authorities stayed stuck in a past, the state moved on and there is now a climate of awareness wherein uncomfortable questions are bound to be raised. Diversionary tactics like ‘love jihad’ or ‘narcotics jihad’ will not wash anymore. Valson Thampu is a former principal of St Stephen’s College, Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-25
04-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Three cheers ||The outcome of the by-election in Bhowanipore in which the chief minister, Mamata Banerjee, was a contestant was a foregone conclusion. The talk within the Trinamul Congress centred on the margin of her victory. The impressive electoral mandate for Ms Banerjee — she won by a record margin of over 58,000 votes — and the TMC’s victory in two other seats — Samserganj and Jangipur — have sweetened the deal for the ruling party. These results certainly signify the TMC’s unprecedented electoral dominance in the state. Ms Banerjee’s rivals appear to be in a shambles. The Bharatiya Janata Party, which had boasted of winning 200 seats in the assembly elections, has tasted a dose of its own bitter medicine since: the TMC’s triumph in Bengal has been followed by defections in the BJP’s rank and file. There is a possibility that the BJP’s presence in the Vidhan Sabha would shrink further if the party fails to check the slide. The less said about the Congress — it did not contest Bhowanipore — and the Left Front — its candidate in this constituency performed miserably — the better. By-election results seldom create upsets. Yet, these polls have two important lessons. First, the TMC’s tally — 213 in a House of 294 — is likely to climb since Ms Banerjee’s party is expected to hold on to the momentum in the forthcoming by-elections in four other seats. It would be interesting to see what kind of impact this political dominance would have on the TMC. It would choose the path of arrogance and intimidation — something that it has been guilty of in the past — at its own peril. The TMC’s aggression in the last panchayat polls had paved the way for the BJP’s rise in the state in 2019. It is important for the TMC — this is the second lesson to be drawn — not to alienate itself from Bengal for another reason. Ms Banerjee seems to have set her eyes on a pan-India presence for her party. The TMC’s forays into Tripura and Goa are indicative of this ambition. But for the TMC to spread wings, it needs to be rooted firmly in the ground of its base — Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-25
04-10-2021||Opinion||Old problem new solution: bullying ||How should a 14-year-old who bullies another of the same age be punished, especially if the bullying results in permanent physical damage? In what way can the victim be compensated? More than a year after a 14-year-old student was forced to do squats by her dormitory “leader’’, also aged 14, her foot hasn’t recovered. The victim was punished because snacks were found on her bed, which was a violation of dormitory rules. Although the victim claimed the snacks didn’t belong to her, and pleaded that her foot was injured, the “leader’’ ordered her to do 300 squats. She could manage only 150. Watching all this silently was a teacher. Deep scars Today, the victim walks on crutches; doctors say her foot will never heal. The teacher has been dismissed and the school has paid the victim’s medical expenses. But her parents say this isn’t enough. Officials say they will resolve this dispute under the existing laws, but what does that mean? Reports of the incident do not mention what happened to the 14-year-old “leader’’. Meanwhile, the victim has gone into depression. She’s not the only school student to be so afflicted. A 15-year-old who’s faced bullying since Std II told a research team that she ended up feeling she must be “stupid’’, dropped out of school and is now on anti-depressants. Another teenager admitted to having cut her forearms in despair, thanks to having been bullied for years. The research team, which spoke to middle-school students (ages 12 to 16), found that to some extent jungle law prevailed in schools. Unpopular kids and those at the bottom of the class in academics were most likely to be bullied. Their classmates did not feel making fun of and ostracizing them constituted bullying. Playgrounds, school canteens and dormitories, all places where CCTV cameras were not installed, were “hot spots’’. Perpetrators were mostly older kids, toppers and student “cadres’’, that is, those chosen by teachers for their excellence, which is why teachers did not intervene when they received complaints. Migrant kids were treated with contempt even by teachers. In fact, a 2017 study had found that students disliked by teachers were more likely to be bullied. So victims kept quiet, unwilling to tell even their parents for fear that the latter would complain to teachers. Some schools hired retired soldiers as dormitory “keepers’’; they were often “vulgar and mean, and handed out corporal punishment’’, students said. Teachers sometimes gave lectures on bullying, but no one bothered to pay attention. Nor did teachers bother to make them listen; for them, it was just a task they had to complete. In 2016, the government drew up guidelines on preventing school bullying, and some bullies have faced punishments which have gone on their school records. A few have even been forbidden from taking the high school entrance exam. But that doesn’t seem to be the norm. Creative turn Now, one victim has chosen to use her painful memories to educate others through a board game where players can choose any of three roles: victim, bully or bystander. The game, which won an award at a children’s art festival, is designed by a 22-year-old psychology graduate who’s been through hell in the last 10 years. Bullied in middle school for being fat, she started feeling inferior, leading to her grades falling, and finally to depression. She hopes her game, aimed at middle-school students, will not only help victims fight back and sensitize perpetrators and teachers, but also provide an understanding of what motivates bullies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-25
