05-10-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: German politics at the brink of change ||Futile hurdles Sir — As per new Reserve Bank of India mandate, automatic recurring payments made by credit or debit card, for various recharge and utility bills will have to be further protected with an additional factor of authentication. This is allegedly to protect customers — a near impossibility in an age when card details are uploaded online. What this does in reality is leave people unable to subscribe to services like the New York Times. Surely, the State is smiling? Anamika Saha, Calcutta Uncertain future Sir — The German federal election results have taken everyone by surprise (“Teutonic shift”, Sep 30).  The Social Democrats took a narrow lead with 25.7 per cent of votes over the Christian Democrats who secured 24.1 per cent. Now, the Greens and Free Democrats, at 14.8 per cent and 11.5 per cent respectively, have the opportunity to play kingmaker. Olaf Scholz, the SDP candidate and incumbent vice-chancellor and finance minister, is likely to be the next chancellor of Germany. Armin Laschet, CDU candidate and Merkel’s heir-apparent, was uncharismatic and ran a lacklustre campaign in comparison to Scholz. German politics is at the brink of a massive change. Hopefully, the next chancellor will be able to steer Germany and the European Union in the right direction. S.S. Paul, Nadia Sir — The retirement of Angela Merkel from active politics coincided with the CDU performing poorly at the national elections. Many think that had Merkel chosen to run for the chancellorship, the CDU may have won the elections. The saving grace is that the German public has largely rejected the far-right Alternative for Germany. Germany must not allow the far-right to gain ground. Jang Bahadur Singh, Jamshedpur Sir — Elections, we are often reminded, have consequences, but those consequences can take time to unravel. It is thus heartening that there is a cross-party consensus on the need to address the climate crisis aggressively among most. This is key given the sway that Germany holds over decision-making within the European Union. Ravi Nagori, Howrah Defining role Sir — It was saddening to learn that the actor, Ghanshyam Nayak, passed away following a battle with cancer. Nayak had won hearts with his endearing performance as Nattu kaka in the TV show, Taarak Mehta ka Ooltah Chashmah. This is a huge loss for Indian television. We will remember him whenever we watch reruns of the show. Sourish Misra, Calcutta Sir — Ghanshyam Nayak was a remarkable actor who breathed life into the characters he played on screen. He had a long and illustrious career but we will perhaps always remember him as the goofy and loveable Nattu kaka. He will be missed. Rohan Tripathi, Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-24
05-10-2021||Opinion||Shared podium ||After his spectacular success at the Tokyo Olympics, Neeraj Chopra, deservedly, has become a national hero. But the Paralympics reminded us that Chopra was not the first Indian to get a gold medal in athletics. Tokyo Paralympics silver-medallist, Devendra Jhajharia, won gold in men’s javelin throw both in Athens in 2004 and in Rio de Janeiro in 2016. It is not that Jhajharia, a recipient of the Padma Shri and the Khel Ratna, has not been honoured by the country. But media and public attention follow a different equation. The origin of the Paralympics, meaning ‘parallel Olympics’, was closely linked to a disability sporting event of British World War II veterans held in London in 1948. Rapid commercialization of the Paralympic Games and the increasing visibility of disability in the media, influenced by the widespread coverage of the recent Games, might be instrumental in bringing about social change. Although a large funding gap between the Olympic and Paralympic athletes persists as does the ‘Paralympic paradox’ — the moment a disabled athlete succeeds, the association the athlete has with ‘disability’ becomes weaker — Paralympic success is considered a measure of national, social and economic development. In a 2016 article in the Journal of the Nippon Foundation Paralympic Research, Kazuo Ogoura, secretary general of the Tokyo 2020 Bid Committee, examined the significance of the Paralympics from political, economic, social and cultural perspectives. Not only can the Paralympics — bearing the legacy of ‘war scars’ — impress upon people the importance of peace, but it can also induce changes in business models. Following the 2010 Vancouver Games, a study by the University of British Columbia showed that the Paralympics triggered better accessibility to buildings, sidewalks and public spaces in Canada. It also increased the willingness to hire people with disabilities among 23 per cent of employers. The Paralympics might create a society where those with disabilities can live comfortably. Indeed, social awareness raised by the Paralympics might change people’s view of people with disabilities. For example, until the 1988 Seoul Paralympic Games, 90,000 people were registered as having disabilities — the number increased to about 5,00,000 following the Paralympics. The motto of the Paralympics — ‘spirit in motion’ — emphasizes that para-athletes constantly inspire and excite the world with their performances. But can an event for people with disabilities be transformed into a pure ‘sporting event’ as far as the attitude of spectators is concerned? The Olympics and the Paralympics take place in the same host city, usually a few weeks apart. The possible inclusion of athletes with a disability into the Olympic Games, instead, has been a long-standing issue within the Paralympic movement. A fusion of the Paralympics and the Olympics sounds fascinating. Researchers at the State University of New York used historical data to calculate the potential cost-benefits of such an integration with the 2010 Winter Olympic and Paralympic Games in Vancouver as a framework. They concluded that the two could be integrated with little, if any, changes to the proposed schedule, resulting in greater efficiency and economy of scale by eliminating the need for redundancy in personnel like officials, event staff and volunteers. Similar arguments should hold for the Summer Games as well. But the most significant benefit of integrating the Olympic and Paralympic Games would be social justice. In fact, some experts have posited that anything less than full inclusion of the Paralympics into the Olympic Games would be tantamount to discrimination and marginalization of athletes with disabilities. The pandemic-hit Tokyo Games and the clouds of uncertainty over the 2022 Beijing Winter Olympics have added to the uncertainties of an already-troubled Olympic movement. Can a landmark ‘fusion’ of the Paralympics and the Olympics rejuvenate its future?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-24
05-10-2021||Opinion||The infinite game: US vs Taliban in Afghanistan||In game theory, in which mathematical models study decision-making, there are two kinds of games — finite and infinite. A finite game involves known players, clear rules, distinct objectives and well-defined interests. An infinite game has known and unknown players, no obvious rules, no distinct objectives, and overarching values instead of interests. Over time, the United States of America has been involved in many infinite games — in countries like Vietnam, Iraq and perhaps, most dangerously, in Afghanistan. These are games that the US believed it had won, only to realize — when it was too late — that there is no such thing as a winner in an infinite game. On August 15, 2021, America’s current secretary of state, Antony Blinken, observed: “We went to Afghanistan 20 years ago with one mission, and that mission was to deal with the people who attacked us on 9/11.” In contrast, the former president, George W. Bush (the man who decided to invade Afghanistan in 2001), had written in his 2010 memoir, Decision Points, that “Afghanistan was the ultimate nation-building mission... We had a moral obligation to leave behind something better.” It is obvious that Blinken and Bush are talking about different objectives. What neither comprehends is that the very idea of an objective in Afghanistan makes for a perilous promise. This is because the game in Afghanistan is not about determining winners or losers: it is about perpetuating the game infinitely. The only goal in such a game is survival, something the Taliban sensed long before their American counterparts. The struggle in Afghanistan is greater than the battle of temporary interests between a government backed by America in Kabul and the insurgency of the Taliban. It is a battle about enduring values, that of liberal democracy versus Islamic theocracy, that of Western liberalism parachuted in by foreigners versus domestic, often divisive, conservatism. In an infinite game, the struggle over values requires modification of strategies alongside the evolution of players. The Taliban have done this effectively. The way they took control of Afghanistan in August displayed their new prowess in negotiations, almost erasing their reputation for blunt militancy. The Taliban now control more land in Afghanistan than they did when the Bush administration originally intervened. By misreading the game in Afghanistan, America has only succeeded in replacing the Taliban of 2001 with the Taliban of 2021. Players generally quit an infinite game when they run out of resources or the will to compete. This is how the Soviet Union exited the Cold War, and this is how the US has been forced to abandon Afghanistan — too much has already been lost in the “forever war”. Progress in an infinite game, however, necessitates new players, something the Taliban are aware of. This is why they have been courting China, which is now eyeing the Afghan corridor as the latest addition to its Belt and Road Initiative. For Afghanistan, which had a trade deficit in excess of five billion dollars in 2020, Chinese investment through the BRI is the perfect catalyst with which to embark upon the next stage of the game. When the author of this column spoke to Tahir Qadiry (the then chargé d’affaires of Afghanistan in New Delhi) last year, he explained how the Taliban had grasped the need to integrate into a different Afghan society from the one they controlled during the late ’90s. For Qadiry, those differences were tantamount to respect for women’s rights, civil liberties, and the protection of minorities. To what extent the Taliban accommodate Qadiry’s vision remains to be seen, but what is evident is the Taliban’s willingness to shift strategy in the long haul. On August 17, a Taliban official appeared on Afghanistan’s main television network to be interviewed by a female journalist. This would have been unimaginable a few years ago. In 2018, a survey found 46 per cent of the Afghan population to be under 15 years of age. This means that they had not been born when the Taliban last held power. The modern demands of the Afghan youth, especially in the age of social media, cannot be underestimated, a fact the Taliban should grudgingly adapt to or admit. Ultimately, the end of the American era in Afghanistan will go in one of the two ways. A reformed Taliban steer a ravaged country to a semblance of order (albeit a theocratic one) or history repeats itself and chaos reigns supreme, once more. In either case, the Taliban are unlikely to disappear for they are playing an infinite game and they know as much. This is unlike the Americans, who might want to add some books on game theory to the White House library before opting to rescue another nation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-24
05-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Drowned||Semantics can be illuminating. Bengal’s chief minister has described the devastation caused by floods in several districts in the southern part of the state — Bankura, Birbhum, Hooghly, West Burdwan, West Midnapore have been adversely affected — as a “man-made” disaster. State leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party have christened the tragedy differently: they insist this is a “she-made” deluge. The causal analyses between the political rivals, expectedly, differ. Mamata Banerjee has pointed an accusing finger at the Damodar Valley Corporation — a Central entity — for releasing unmanageable quantities of water without adequate intimation to her government. This, she argued, led to the flooding. She has also stated that she would write to the prime minister, urging him to intervene and resolve the issue. The chief minister’s claim has been refuted by the DVC that said that the customary warning had been sent to Bengal’s irrigation department; Bengal, in turn, has disputed the DVC’s charge by alleging that the quantum of water to be released had not been specified. The BJP, keen to fish in troubled waters, has alleged that the floods are a result of Ms Banerjee’s preoccupation with her by-election campaign as well as the administration’s inability to initiate repair work of weak embankments. The truth of the matter must lie somewhere in between. But the shrill political noise would not be enough to drown the miseries of the common people: 22 lakh have been victims of the flooding. The loss of property and the damage to agriculture are substantial. The rehabilitation of the affected population must be undertaken immediately by the Centre in coordination with the state. A natural disaster of this magnitude during a pandemic is cause for additional concern. Bengal, Jharkhand and the Centre must establish a better template of communication to prevent what appears to be a fatal lapse. This should not be too difficult, given that the Damodar Valley Reservoir Regulation Committee — it advises the DVC on the release of water — has representation from Bengal, Jharkhand and the Central Water Commission. The desilting and modernization of dams should be undertaken soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-24
05-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Troubled trail ||The enormous hype that China had whipped up with its ambitious Belt and Road Initiative has started to fizzle out. China’s political leadership is bracing to deal with a backlash from several countries in Africa, Asia, central and eastern Europe, and Latin America over stalled projects, a colossal debt burden, corruption scandals, environmental disasters and an outpouring of public anger. A recent report published by AidData, an international development research laboratory based in Virginia, has caused disquiet with its revelation that China’s BRI has left scores of lower and middle income countries with “hidden debts” totalling $385 billion. The study is based on a close examination of a granular dataset covering 13,427 projects worth $843 billion across 165 countries. The BRI project was launched in 2013. Over 140 nations had enthusiastically welcomed the gush of cash from China in the hope that it would jump-start their economies. In the early phase between 2013 and 2017, China outspent the United States of America in terms of development finance commitments by two to one. China spent $85.4 billion against the relatively small US funding of $37 billion a year. Beijing funnelled money into large vanity projects — those financed with loans worth $500 million or more. The small and medium countries lapped up these big-ticket infrastructure projects. The biggest beneficiary of BRI funds was Pakistan with $27 billion, followed by Indonesia ($20 billion), Kazakhstan ($12 billion), Malaysia ($8 billion) and Cambodia ($7 billion). Unlike the West, China was offering these loans at a relatively high interest of almost 6 per cent. Concessional loans were actually a misnomer: the average interest on a loan from a State institution in China was priced at 4.2 per cent with a maturity period of 9.4 years and an average grace period of 1.8 years, says the study. Contrastingly, the soft loans from members of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development were priced at 1.1 per cent and had an average maturity length of 28 years. In the resource-rich nations, the Chinese project loans were collateralized against future commodity export receipts. Over time, more than 35 per cent of the BRI projects were mired in trouble because of public outrage over corruption and environmental issues which wrecked implementation schedules. Debt repayment problems surfaced and many borrowers started to default. The AidData study claims that at least 42 of the low and middle-income countries today have a debt exposure to China that amounts to over 10 per cent of their GDP. The problems are compounded by the fact that China has now started to tighten the screws on overseas projects as it battles an economic slowdown. The debt diplomacy strategy that the BRI held out is clearly in tatters as Beijing struggles to put its own house in order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-24
05-10-2021||Opinion||A heavy price||The aggressive rise of China is compelling the United States of America to augment its security and diplomatic arrangements in the Indo-Pacific region. In addition to its own presence through the Hawaii-headquartered Indo-Pacific Command, the US has relied, since the 1950s, on its bilateral treaties, principally with South Korea, Japan and Australia, for the region’s defence and security. These pacts have enabled the location of US forces in these countries and, in turn, cover them with an American nuclear umbrella. While these bilateral relationships continue, the US, along with the United Kingdom and Australia, put in place on September 15, according to the joint statement of its leaders, “an enhanced trilateral security partnership called “AUKUS” — Australia, the United Kingdom, and the United States”. The first Aukus initiative is to enable Australia to build nuclear-powered submarines through the transfer of nuclear propulsion technology. Only once has the US given sensitive nuclear technology to any country; in the 1950s, it did so to the UK. Significantly, Aukus declared that its decision was based in recognition of the three countries’ “common tradition as maritime democracies”. Japan and South Korea are also maritime democracies but they have been kept out of this security partnership. At the same time, the UK, which has by now hardly any Indo-Pacific presence, has been brought in. This initiative has led to Australia reneging on its long-standing agreement with France; the European country was to build submarines for it. An enraged France complained it had been stabbed in the back by its allies. Thus, the US has signalled that it can ultimately rely only on its white, Anglo-Saxon, English-speaking brothers to meet China’s security challenge in the Indo-Pacific. Aukus was announced nine days prior to the first in-person Quad summit held on September 24. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, along with his Australian and Japanese counterparts, joined the US president at the White House. As the essential reason for Quad and Aukus lies in China’s disdain for the norms of the present US-led world order, it was natural for observers to ask if the latter group would undercut the former. The foreign secretary, Harsh Vardhan Shringla, refuted this thought. He said that while Quad is a group of countries with a shared vision of their “attributes and values” and of the Indo-Pacific “as a free, open, transparent, inclusive region”, Aukus is “a security alliance between three countries”. Shringla further asserted that Aukus is “neither relevant to the Quad nor will it have any impact on its functioning”. Shringla’s distinction between Quad and Aukus is technically correct but inter-state diplomacy is not only about exactitude; it is a game of perceptions too. The feeling in the Indo-Pacific region and beyond, even if unspoken or seldom articulated, will be that for the US, the core group to take on China henceforth will be Aukus for, unlike Quad, it will have military and operational teeth. It is true that Quad’s agenda of wide-ranging cooperation with the Indo-Pacific region and its insistence on the observance of norms of global conduct are important for the area, but perceptions are determined more by hard power than by other considerations. This does not detract from the need to meet the challenge of China’s Belt and Road Initiative, which aims to create a web of dependencies and generate coercive influence in the region. China is vigorously and continuously moving into India’s immediate neighbourhood. It is using its vast financial resources to support this ingress. These Chinese actions are detrimental to Indian interests. It is, therefore, natural for India to look to join hands with other Quad countries which share concerns on Chinese behaviour. While doing so, despite the common “attributes and values”, India has to be always conscious that its objective realities and those of the other three Quad countries are vastly different. These objective realities are determined by its stage of development and location. Unlike the other three, it is an emerging economy and a developing country and not an advanced developed country. For this reason, it has to be simultaneously part of the ‘trade unions’ of states and have a seat at the table where the rules of global management are set. Also, it is the only Quad country which has a land border with China. Thus, while it has a coincidence of interests with Quad arising out of China, there are great areas of divergence. All this requires adroit Indian diplomacy to balance its interests and concerns. Did it succeed in doing so in the drafting of the Quad summit joint statement? India took common positions with its Quad partners on Covid vaccines, climate change, technology and infrastructure development, cyber and outer space, and freedom of navigation. These are global issues that impact Indian interests and on many of them Indian perspectives in view of its objective realities necessarily have to be different from those of the advanced countries, including the other three Quad members. This is not surprising because India’s position on the development ladder necessitates adopting views on economic and technology-related issues that are more aligned with those of the developing world. It is here that India has to protect its interests and bring in more balanced and equitable positions in Quad. It has to do so even while sharing the other three states’ opposition to Chinese practices, which are harmful to Indian and the developing world’s interests as well. Specifically on the distribution of Covid vaccines, the government has assured that exports will take place taking into account Indian needs. This is reassuring, but the fact is that while the US and Japan have fully vaccinated more than 50 per cent of their populations, and Australia 40 per cent, only 25 per cent Indians have got the double dose till now. So what will be its criterion of Indian requirements? On climate change, can India be more ambitious than it is at present? The compulsions of geography dictate that Indian orientations have to be different from those of the other Quad members on Afghanistan and Myanmar and, yet, the joint statement does not reflect this aspect. The Quad membership may be desirable but a very heavy price is being paid. Vivek Katju is a retired Indian Foreign Service officer||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-24
