06-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: New fund||The market regulator, Securities and Exchange Board of India, announced recently that non-profit organizations as well as for-profit social enterprises will be permitted to participate in financial markets and raise funds through equity, various types of bonds, and even tap into mutual funds. There will be a newly created social stock exchange where such entities would be listed. Permission, as per this decision, would be granted to those enterprises that are wedded to social causes and have demonstrated positive results of their activities on the ground. They will be allowed to raise finances through social impact funds having a corpus of Rs five crore. Although the regulations are yet to be framed, Sebi has indicated that organizations involved only in certain approved activities will be entitled to this facility. These activities include, among others, work to eradicate hunger, poverty and malnutrition, promoting healthcare — including mental health — education, gender equality, livelihoods and empowerment of women and LGBTQIA+ communities as well as encouraging environmental sustainability. This step taken by Sebi is certainly welcome. Many non-government organizations doing commendable work are often constrained by lack of financial resources. However, if this measure is to succeed in having a meaningful impact, a few issues need clarity from the Central government. During the tenure of the current dispensation, there has been a significant trust deficit created between NGOs and the State. The government does not seem to be happy with private sector engagements in areas of social empowerment and improvement. There has been a crackdown on philanthropic outfits that receive foreign help of any kind. Many of these NGOs are well-known for their global imprint. Some of them have been forced to curtail their operations; others have shut down for lack of funds and on account of government scrutiny. How will the Centre view Sebi’s new decision? How strict will the new rules be? Would a few not-for profit organizations and for-profit social enterprises that are close to the Central government corner most of the funds? The financial markets are currently awash with funds because of the central bank’s accommodative policy to support growth. Bringing new players into the financial arena may serve a productive purpose, provided access to the market is granted fairly and transparently. The new rule should not be a source of easy money that can be siphoned off by opportunists and charlatans.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-23
06-10-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Lakhimpur Kheri incident||Dangerous turn Sir — The protests against the visit of the deputy chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, Keshav Prasad Maurya, to Lakhimpur Kheri took a grim turn when four farmers were allegedly killed and several injured after being run over by a car that was part of the convoy in which the state home affairs minister’s son was travelling (“VIP car mows down farmers”, Oct 4). Four persons in the minister’s convoy were reportedly killed in the violence that followed. This is undesirable. The agitating farmers and the government must work out an amicable solution. Sundar Subramaniam,Coimbatore Sir — The Lakhimpur Kheri incident is gruesome and needs to be strongly condemned. It is not an indicator of a civilized society. Agriculture is the backbone of the economy, farmers need to be treated like human beings. Yet, the state’s hatred towards the farmers is palpable. The cover-up has started with internet services being blocked in the region. Are these not signs of a despotic State? Shovanlal Chakraborty,Calcutta Sir — The death of at least eight people at Lakhimpur Kheri is a serious matter. The confrontation reminds one of the early stages of the French Revolution — the fight between the oppressed classes and the ruling elite eventually culminated in a massacre. India’s rapid spiral into totalitarianism under the influence of capitalists is dangerous. In a world with serious political, military and environmental problems, the future of the country must rest in the hands of the people, who must stay united. The powers that be are not in the least interested in the poor masses or the farmers or the countless millions of the uneducated and unemployed. The discontent and the frustration in the country is now of epidemic proportions. Politicians should address these problems because no government can afford to ignore the workers and the farmers. Anwar Saeed,Calcutta Sir — The violence in Uttar Pradesh is heart-rending. The incident could have been avoided had the protests been dealt with sensibly. The government must reassure the protesting farmers by lending a ear to their apprehensions before the apex court has to intervene. The incident deserves a judicial enquiry, especially because the role of a Union minister and his son is in question. D.V.G. Sankararao,Nellimarla, Andhra Pradesh Twisted tongue Sir — In trying to promote Hindi, the Centre has failed to take into consideration what words in Hindi could mean in a different language (“The language back-lash”, Oct 2). This could also have serious implications. The change of the name of the mid-day meal scheme to PM Poshan Shakti Nirman Yojana, for instance, could make it difficult for people in states where Hindi is not the predominant language. Anthony Henriques,Mumbai Sir — Although the language mix-up in Karnataka’s mid-day meal scheme may appear hilarious at first, the Centre’s cavalier attitude towards languages other than Hindi cannot be taken in jest. It reeks of ignorance as well as an unwillingness to learn — these are not good qualities in an elected government. Sneha Kapoor,Delhi  Break the spell Sir — In a country where people — from politicians to celebrities to common families — depend on astrologers to guide them in life, suffice it to say that the future is bleak. While rationalists — Narendra Dabholkar was one — get killed protecting their countrymen from falling prey to superstition, television channels and newspapers continue to irresponsibly promote astrology. Under the present ruling regime, the scientific temper has already received severe blows. It is time India united to break the spell of superstition. Ahita Goswami,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-23
06-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Run over||Democracy was left bloodied at Lakhimpur Kheri by the supposed minders of democracy. Several protesting farmers were mowed down by speeding vehicles, one of which, witnesses alleged, was being driven by the son of a Union minister. Some other lives were lost in the violence that followed. Madness has a method, and the bloodbath in Lakhimpur Kheri is not an exception. There are allegations of a provocative speech made by the said minister. If they are true, it would be consistent with the strategy of vilification employed by the Bharatiya Janata Party. Instead of engaging with opponents and critics, the BJP finds merit in employing its formidable propaganda machinery — segments of the media are complicit in such campaigns — to discredit the counter-narrative. Choicest of epithets — ‘anti-nationals’, ‘Khalistanis’ — have been hurled at farmers protesting against the new agricultural laws to deny legitimacy to a movement that has acquired significant force. This mischief has been complemented by explicit threats, such as the ones issued by the chief minister of Haryana recently. The sustained vilification is not the only blot deepening on the fabric of Indian democracy. The Uttar Pradesh administration got into the act after Sunday’s violence, preventing a number of leaders from the Opposition from reaching Ground Zero. Imposed besiegement, too, is typical of the BJP playbook. The Supreme Court’s position on peaceful, democratic protest by farmers has been peculiar. A bench of the apex court has decided to examine the constitutional right of the farmers to protest on a matter that is already in court. Can such a perspective strengthen the Centre’s ploy of discrediting the agitation? Significantly, a former Chief Justice of India had argued that farmers have a constitutional right to protest as long as the mobilization did not threaten public order. Lakhimpur Kheri has exposed the real face of the threat to peace and order. What is at stake here is the sanctity of a principle — public protest — that is integral to the democratic ethic. It must be pointed out that neither a legislative nor a judicial resolution has been in sight in spite of the fact that hundreds of farmers have perished in the course of the long agitation. The horror of Lakhimpur Kheri would provide another spark to the rising flame.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-23
06-10-2021||Opinion||Great power, greater responsibility||It is always nice to be felicitated on a day that is meant for you alone. Teachers’ Day, alas, has come and gone in India. Fortunately, I haven’t missed the opportunity to pay my annual tribute to teachers. World Teachers’ Day is observed on October 5 each year to commemorate the Unesco/ILO Recommendation (Paris, 1994) concerning the Status of Teachers. This was considered very important for the quality of education. Having found the right occasion to write about the most fascinating of professions, I hasten to state that this article is not about the de facto status of teachers in our country, or about their rights and responsibilities. It is just that as an ardent and unabashed admirer of the teaching fraternity, I wish to give a loud shout-out to all teachers, working or retired, and remember those who are no more. Heads of schools — please don’t be offended, but you are not included in this celebration. This is because although you proclaim that you are teachers first and administrators afterwards, something strange happens to you the moment you are placed in that hallowed chair. Your status shoots up instantly and your persona is suddenly and radically transformed. Sadly, as you don the mandatory gravitas of the Head of your school, you cease to be the beloved teacher that you once were. Indeed, the Head has tremendous power over her school but her plight is most unenviable. In present times, she is likely to have multiple bosses — the CEO or secretary, the director, governing body members and officials of the Board to which her school is affiliated. Lastly, let us not forget the parents to whom she is answerable on a daily basis. In order to run a tight ship, the school Head must see that both teachers and students are functioning properly. To be on top of the charts, the Head has to see that her students are fetching laurels for the school regularly in the form of outstanding examination results as well as awards and trophies from various inter-school contests. Not only must her school be favourably and frequently featured in the media, but the Head’s comments on educational matters must be published from time to time. Moreover, she must be seen participating in important webinars and panel discussions on education policy. Her school must keep abreast of the latest technology and be ever-ready to accommodate the incessant changes that the Board keeps inflicting on all schools in terms of curricula, examination formats and even schedules. This is not all; the Head of a school has a long list of unpleasant routine functions to perform. The paperwork is not only tedious but is of almost Sisyphean proportions. Meanwhile, documents have to be carefully stored and all data properly checked. However, the worst aspect of the Head’s work, I feel, is dealing with people who have an ingrained sense of entitlement. They are influential beings who, either bluntly or in a sophisticated way, attempt to bully school authorities into doing all kinds of unjust things. Hapless principals lament about the manner in which they are made to change marks of certain students or grant admission to undeserving candidates. The worst scenario is when ignorant, but powerful, people tell the Head how to run the school. It is the rare Head who is solidly backed by the school management and is thus able to keep her principles unbent and her ethics intact. Then there is the delicate matter of ‘difficult’ parents. A Head’s task is hugely facilitated when parents support the school in the right way and stand by it in difficult times. In fact, a school can run smoothly only if parents are true partners. But in almost every school, a handful of parents seem to make it their business to find fault with everything that the school does and everything that the teachers do or say. Such obstructionist parents end up wasting the principal’s time and energy and deterring the school’s progress. Considering these tricky and unattractive aspects of a principal’s work, one is sure to wonder why people aspire to this thankless position. Moreover, in spite of the mind-boggling work that the Head does to keep her school running smoothly, it is usually the teachers who are lavished with love and affection by students, past and present. Principals receive the veneration and respectful acknowledgement that an exalted position demands. No wonder Mr Chips (immortalized by James Hilton’s novel Goodbye, Mr. Chips) refused the headmaster’s position. Yet, it is widely accepted that it is the Head who makes or breaks a school. There are famous real-life and fictional headmasters who have been great influencers. Rugby School was single-handedly transformed by Thomas Arnold, who made it a model for all English public schools of the period. Even now, elderly gentlemen talk about their headmasters in worshipful terms. The term, headmistress, however, conjures a forbidding female figure, whose footsteps along the school corridors strike terror in the hearts of all pupils within hearing distance. Roald Dahl’s popular book, Matilda, features the dreadful headmistress, Miss Trunchbull — a compulsive bully with an appearance to match. A real-life tribute that was paid to a much-admired headmistress is strangely familiar to people of my vintage: “Occasionally terrifying, sometimes surprisingly kind, always gracious, she taught me much that I didn’t understand but needed to know until long after I left (school).” This headmistress is certainly a far cry from today’s bright and cheery principal who gets her work done with doses of ‘darling’ and ‘beta’, reminding us of Charlie Brown’s warning, “Never trust a smiling teacher!” Oddly, but happily, this piece has turned out to be a shout-out to our much-misunderstood Heads. I realize that school principals deserve to be especially saluted for running the schools of our land so bravely, and against all odds. Significantly, World Principals’ Day is observed on May 1, which is also International Workers’ Day. Devi Kar is director, Modern High School for Girls, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-23
06-10-2021||Opinion||My people||Early in 2019, Robert O’Meally, jazz and art writer and Columbia University professor, gave a talk about a film called Paris Blues. The talk took place in Paris. O’Meally was researching a book, which is to have a chapter about the film’s ‘unruly cosmopolitanism’, as espoused by a set of musicians of various colours who found themselves in Paris in 1961, played by Sidney Poitier, Paul Newman, Louis Armstrong, and others. It’s amazing how much black and white film can filter out, and, on the other hand, how much tonal range it can cover. As O’Meally pointed out, the opening scenes during the credits, composed of stills of jazz bars, capture a cultural mix, a range of blacks and whites, that the film’s overseers and financers quickly removed from the rest of the movie. But, throughout, there was — another focus of O’Meally’s lecture — Duke Ellington’s soundtrack: black, in the way the blues and jazz are black, and yet resistant to being pinned down to ethnicity: a different colour, then, that neither had black’s political specificity alone, nor white’s wolf-in-sheep’s-clothing universality. A cosmopolitan soundtrack, but unruly too, in that it embraced, rather than transcended, location. But which location was that? To ask that question is like asking, as Byng Whittaker did in an interview with Ellington in 1964 (a clip O’Meally shared with us in his talk), who an artist’s ‘people’ or constituency might be. Cultural and ethnic background is everything to creativity, and yet there’s no simple answer to this question, as an artist — especially one that, like Ellington, engages with hybrid forms — is, at any given point of time, bringing their people into existence. “You’ve been quoted as saying that you write the music of your people as it sounds to you. Would you like to expound on that a little bit?” asks Whittaker. Ellington does an imperceptible double take, goes calculatedly blank, and tinkers eloquently with his piano, playing chords and a blues line in B flat, while repeating, in an incredulous reverie, “My people… my people …” He stops playing and says: “I was afraid you were going to do this, get me out here… and expose me to my own ignorance.” After this, he embarks on a kind of improvisation, like a musician taking stock notes and defamiliarizing them through different approaches. The stock notes here are the words, ‘my people’: “Now which of my people? I mean… you know I’m in several groups… I’m in the group of piano players… I’m in the groups of the listeners… I’m in the groups of people who have general appreciation of music. I’m in the groups of those who aspire to be dilettantes. I’m in the group of those who attempt to produce something fit for the plateau. I’m in the group of what… oh yeah, those who appreciate Beaujolais… heh heh.” Lists add up to a kind of family. But Ellington’s list, like his idea of the ‘group’, doesn’t; each of its units is a departure. With that mention of Beaujolais, both the laughter that accompanies our encounter with the unfamiliar and the matter of savouring foreignness — ‘appreciating Beaujolais’ — occur in an inappropriate context: the context of identifiability, to do with ‘one’s people’. Ellington has perhaps misunderstood what the words mean. Ellington’s improvisation reminded me immediately of two other responses — both similarly evasive and faintly belligerent — and also of a philosophical reflection on categories, of which ‘my people’ is an inescapable instance. The first comprises Bob Dylan’s replies to interviewers, at the Village Voice press meet in 1965, who are intent on discovering who his ‘influences’ are. “Was Woody Guthrie your greatest influence?” someone asks. “I don’t know that I’d say that,” says Dylan, and clarifies, “but for a spell, the idea of him affected me quite much.” After this, they quiz him about Brecht, Rimbaud, and Hank Williams; at the mention of the last name, Dylan elaborates: “Hey look, I consider Hank Williams, Captain Marvel, Marlon Brando, the Tennessee Stud, Clark Kent, Walter Cronkite and J. Carrol Naish all influences. Now what is it — please — what is it exactly you people want to know?” In an interview given to Rolling Stone magazine in San Francisco that very year, 1965, Dylan continues, like Ellington, to exhibit a special form of dyslexia in relation to the meaning of categories, and, when asked “Which poets do you dig?”, says: “Rimbaud, I guess; W.C. Fields; the family, you know, the trapeze family in the circus; Smokey Robinson; Allen Ginsberg; Charlie Rich — he’s a good poet.” As with Ellington’s list, the constituent parts have a life of their own — they go off in different directions, laughter (W.C. Fields) being one of them. Dylan, at this point, would have known that he had no ‘people’. He had a large following, but that was because his audience mistook him for a ‘folk singer’. Dylan had to create his ‘people’. In 1970, the critic, Philip Engblom, asked Arun Kolatkar, the bilingual Indian poet who had a few years ago embarked on remarkable dual oeuvres in English and Marathi, who his favourite writers were. Kolatkar’s English poetry, in an India suspicious of the colonial legacy, not only had no readers to speak of: eccentrically, Kolatkar worked hard to ensure he had as few as possible, leaving books unpublished for long periods and committing his English work to a small press in Pune which supplied his collections to a single bookshop in Bombay. It was as if, to bring his ‘people’ into existence, Kolatkar strove first to free himself of readers. For a poet so parsimonious about sharing his work, Kolatkar’s reply to Engblom is capacious: “Want me to give you a list? Whitman, Mardhekar, Manmohan, Eliot, Pound, Auden, Hart Crane, Dylan Thomas, Kafka, Baudelaire, Heine… Janabai, Eknath, Tukaram… Ramjoshi… Mandelstam… Apollinaire, Breton, Brecht… Henry Miller, Nabokov, Namdeo Dhasal, Patte Bapurav, Rabelais… Gerard Manley Hopkins… Kabir, Robert Johnson, Muddy Waters, Leadbelly… Eisenstein, Truffaut, Woody Guthrie, Laurel and Hardy.” The philosophical reflection I mentioned occurs at the beginning of Michel Foucault’s The Order of Things (1970), a work that interrogates the bases of knowledge — a knowledge we presume is universal and organic — at different points in history. “This book first arose out of a passage in Borges,” says Foucault, “out of the laughter that shattered, as I read the passage, all the familiar landmarks of my thought — our thought that bears the stamp of our age and our geography — breaking up all the ordered surfaces and all planes with which we are accustomed to tame the wild profusion of existing things.” There’s a typographical and distancing emphasis on ‘our thought’, echoing Ellington’s disbelieving repetition of ‘my people’. Which passage? It concerns a ‘certain Chinese encyclopaedia’ in which ‘“animals are divided into: (a) belonging to the Emperor, (b) embalmed, (c) tame, (d) suckling pigs, (e) sirens, (f) fabulous, (g), stray dogs, (h) included in the present classification, (i) frenzied, (j) innumerable, (k) drawn with a very fine camelhair brush, (l) et cetera, (m) having just broken the water pitcher, (n) that from a long way off look like flies”.’ Foucault says: “In the wonderment of this taxonomy, the thing we apprehend in one great leap, the thing that, by means of the fable, is demonstrated as the exotic charm of another system of thought, is the limitation of our own, the stark impossibility of thinking that.” The impossibility of thinking ‘that’ — whatever ‘that’ might be — and the ‘limitation’ of our ‘system of thought’ (‘my people’) is the point to which Ellington leads Byng Whittaker when he admits to his solidarity with the Beaujolais-lovers; laughing, and provoking laughter. This essay was first read out on A Point of View, BBC Radio 4||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-24
