07-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Choked||Death is in the air. According to a recent study by the network, C40, among 61 global megacities, Calcutta recorded the highest number of premature deaths on account of air pollution caused by coal-fired thermal power plants in 2019. It is also projected to witness 10,000 premature deaths by 2030. Among Indian cities, it is followed by Mumbai. This is not surprising. In spite of much-lauded efforts in clean energy, the carbon footprint of India’s coal-processing industry remains stark. The country has the world’s second highest number of operating coal power plants, none of which is scheduled to be phased out by 2030. In fact, a draft of the National Electricity Policy 2021 revealed plans to continue building coal-fired plants as they provide a cheap source of power. The rampant use of dirty coal in existing plants only compounds the problem — 84 per cent of the power stations supplying electricity to Bengal do not comply with official regulations for sulphur dioxide emissions. ‘Clean coal’ alternatives are not viable solutions either, since their contributions to greenhouse gas emissions and air pollution are high. Clearly, a move away from coal as a whole is necessary. Policies, however, continue to be guided by false assumptions. While rural households are believed to contribute majorly to coal consumption, coal accounts for about 70 per cent of India’s electricity generation, consumed at a much higher rate in urban centres. What available data suggest is a worrying gap between India’s commitment to adopt clean energy sources and the reality on the ground. To meet the 2030 emissions goal committed at the Paris Pact, India would need to reduce coal capacity in and around its C40 cities by about 22 per cent. Yet, going by the current coal plans, it is expected to increase by 20 per cent instead. To bridge this gap, policymakers need to look beyond populist steps. While the Ujjwala scheme promises free liquefied petroleum gas — an environment-friendly alternative to coal — to poor households, the government seems oblivious to the plight of the Indian middle class, struggling to afford LPG because of soaring prices. Investments in renewable energy need to be increased manifold — it constitutes just 33 per cent of the country’s recent spending on energy infrastructure. There is an additional incentive to go green. A transition to 100 per cent renewable energy could generate 18-27 per cent more jobs across India. Populism must be junked and changes in public lifestyle encouraged in policy for India to cleanse the air.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-23
07-10-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Calls for a female Bond||Time’s up Sir — As Daniel Craig hangs up his boots as the British super-spy, James Bond, there have been calls for casting a female in the iconic role. In fact, the most recent Bond film, No Time to Die, has cast a black woman in the role of 007 — Bond’s code number before he retired from MI6. But is there truly any space for Bond, a misogynistic relic of a bygone era, in contemporary cinema? Rather than trying to ‘rewrite’ a role in a more palatable light, screenwriters should put in the effort to create better roles for women. It is time for James Bond to put the gun down once and for all. Neha Chatterjee,Calcutta Pandora’s box Sir — An investigation by the International Consortium of Investigative journalists — this included more than 600 journalists from 117 countries working in more than 140 media organizations — has exposed financial frauds conducted by several well-known people around the world (“Indian names in Pandora Papers”, Oct 4). As usual, many prominent names from India feature on this list — Sachin Tendulkar, Kiran Mazumdar Shaw, Anil Ambani are some of them. Although the government has directed a multi-agency probe into the Pandora Papers, nothing significant is expected to come of it. The government’s claims of bringing back kala dhan have been belied time and again while the poor in the country get poorer and one leak after another continues to implicate the rich and famous in India. Why else are those named in the Panama Papers and the HSBC leak yet to be punished? Abhay Gupta,Mumbai Sir — It has become common practice for the wealthy to stash away a part of their fortune in offshore accounts. There have been numerous data leaks about tax evasion — the HSBC data leak in 2015, Panama Papers in 2016, Paradise Papers in 2017 — but no government has been able to bring this menace under control. The common people are increasingly coming to terms with such criminal activity going unpunished. It is unfortunate that we can no longer trust the government to hold the guilty accountable. Yash Pal Ralhan, Jalandhar Lost treasures Sir — It is heartening that the United States of America has returned over 157 stolen artefacts and antiquities to India (“Easy pickings”, Oct 1). In spite of strict domestic and international regulations, art theft continues to be a booming business — it is estimated to be the third-largest international criminal activity after drugs and arms trafficking. There is an immediate need to catalogue our treasures and train specialists to protect museums and archaeological sites. The government of India must do all it can to put an immediate stop to the drainage of our cultural heritage. H.N. Ramakrishna,Bangalore Sir — Several Western nations have filled their museums with loot from former colonies. Many such ‘stolen’ items are still exhibited at some of the foremost institutions in the world; their repatriation remains a distant dream. While Joe Biden must be lauded for returning smuggled cultural artefacts to India, there is an urgent need to initiate a broader discussion on art repatriation that would include artefacts acquired by colonial rulers. The international community must address this historical injustice. Minakshi Sharma,Gwalior Wasted funds Sir — The Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission, which aims to digitize personal medical records using a unique health identification number and create national registries for doctors and health facilities across the country, is a step in the wrong direction (“Beyond digital”, Oct 4). Millions of Indians have poor or no access to the internet. In such circumstances, any drive towards digitization is bound to benefit only a small section of the urban population. The government must address the digital divide before implementing such programmes. There is also a need to train people on data management for such measures to be useful. Brij B. Goyal,Ludhiana Sir — The funds that have been allocated to the Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission would have been better utilized in beefing up India’s primary health sector, which suffers from a paucity of personnel, equipment and medicines. This initiative would have been laudable had the health budget been increased. At present, it is a waste of meagre resources. Ishita Sanyal,Pune||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-23
07-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: No noise||The prime minister is worried. There are very few critics left in India, he said recently in a rare interview. Could the paucity of critics in India, a nation of, ostensibly, voluble, argumentative citizens, have something to do with how Narendra Modi and his government view criticism? The crackdown on dissenters — political opponents, journalists, activists, farmers — has been explicit. Many of them continue to be incarcerated for expressing or disseminating contrarian opinion. This is because any narrative or public campaign that seeks to challenge or be critical of the regime is deemed injurious to the health of the nation. A nation of ‘anti-nationals’, by the Bharatiya Janata Party’s logic, is bound to be short on critics and criticism. There is credible evidence of this intimidation that has now been institutionalized. India — the mother of democracies, according to Mr Modi — has had to suffer the ignominy of being downgraded to an electoral autocracy by a premier research institution. The country’s performance on other registers of the democratic ethos — the international press freedom index, for instance — has been equally dismal during the years of Mr Modi’s rule. Yet, there is no shaking the prime minister’s faith in his receptivity to criticism. For instance, Mr Modi lauded the importance of constructive criticism in a democracy. He implied, and quite rightly too, that the quality of criticism is intrinsic to the health of a robust democracy. But the shadow, once again, has fallen between the prime minister’s words and deeds. If Mr Modi’s love and respect for the difference of opinion is so profound, why were legislations — the farm laws and the abrogation of Article 370 are examples — pushed without holding exhaustive consultations with the principal stakeholders? Why have visitations from income tax authorities become par for the course for the handful of media organizations that remain steadfast on their mission to speak truth to power? Why is the prime minister of democratic India on record attempting to tether fundamental rights and freedoms to the ‘duties’ of citizens? The answers to these queries are obvious. Mr Modi is an elected leader but of an authoritarian mould who appreciates conformity and obedience — not dissent. But then the democratic project is incomplete without critics. What does the near-absence of critics on Mr Modi’s watch then imply for the mother of democracies?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-23
07-10-2021||Opinion||Forgotten gold mine||India has not forgotten a social category called ‘caste’. This reality has been used relentlessly by various interest-groups, but with different degrees of seriousness. Counting the number of individuals within caste categories got fresh attention recently with a delegation of prominent politicians meeting the prime minister. Mainstream media as well as social media started covering events and vigorously debating related issues. Surprisingly, all these demands for caste census/survey have forgotten or ignored the ready-made database of the Socio-Economic and Caste Census 2011. The Centre recently informed the Supreme Court that the caste data collected in SECC-2011 suffer with respect to “completeness and accuracy”, are “replete with technical flaws”, and are “unusable”. One can say that the database is outdated. But if the objective is to know the strength of a caste, its representation in overall numbers is important. In simple terms, what is required is the ‘ratio’ or ‘proportion’. Demographic ratios do not change within a decade. For example, the proportion of the scheduled caste population was 16.48 per cent in 1991, 16.2 per cent in 2001, and 16.6 per cent in 2011. Similarly, the proportion for the scheduled tribes was 8.1 per cent, 8.2 per cent, and 8.6 per cent in these census years. The variation may be due to inclusion or deletions in the list in the schedule as per the provisions of Articles 341 and 342 of the Constitution rather than on account of demographic dynamics. By this logic, the SECC-2011 data are not old enough to be discarded. The SECC process was conducted under the direct supervision of the Office of the Registrar General and Census Commissioner of India. A scrutiny of vernacular and local newspapers showed that public interest was at its peak at the time of enumeration. Even organized caste societies, including khap panchayats, were keeping a close watch on the process and had educated their members on how to provide correct information to the enumerators. The credibility of the exercise was assured given the monitoring. Unlike the enumeration of SCs and STs, caste categories outside these groups are not listed formally by any authentic agency. A total of 1,646 castes were identified in the 1901 Census and 4,147 distinct categories in the 1931 Census — the last census that ventured into collecting data on caste. The People of India Project of the Anthropological Survey of India recorded 4,635 castes within 4,694 communities in and around 1992. It was decided that the names of castes would be recorded and that respondents were free to indicate their caste names. But there was a problem. The spelling of the name of a caste may take multiple forms in English, the language of recording. But this problem was resolved to a large extent and only about 1 per cent of caste names given by respondents could not be traced to a distinct category. This figure is insignificant. The SECC-2011 database can be used to find answers to the questions associated with caste-enumeration. Government schemes are implemented with the help of SECC data, directly or with modifications and assistance from other databases; why should the data not be fit for the counting? Perhaps the misgivings stem from political parties. They know the ground reality better because of their proximity to and interaction with people and fear that their claims of affirmative actions based on reservation have not delivered the expected benefits to targeted caste-groups. Their estimates and those based on past studies may even fall short of the real numbers/ratios thrown up by the SECC-2011 data. Even the proportion of the other backward classes may be restricted to lower than 40 per cent. Within the OBC group, the domination by a single caste may not go down well with other caste leaders and lobbyists. Secondly, the coupling of socioeconomic data with caste census data in SECC-2011 may pose problems. The quantum of deprived and vulnerable groups within OBC may tilt. Deprivation indicators, such as the absence or inadequate ownership of dwelling units, modern household appliances and assets like agricultural land, and vulnerability indicators like nature and source of wage/income are available in both rural and urban areas, and these can be linked easily to the caste status of households and individuals. The Supreme Court, referring to the Indra Sawhney verdict of 1992, has opined that economic criterion is not the sole basis for the creamy layer, and this may open the gate to using the SECC-2011 data. Thirdly, the timing of the demands for a caste census has created doubts about the seriousness of the political parties and caste lobbyists. Such demands are mostly raised before the launch of the census operation. The 2011 Census could not collect caste data as it was already in an advanced stage of preparation; the same now appears to be the case with the forthcoming 2021 Census. N.K. Sahu is a former economic adviser in the ministry of rural development, the nodal ministry to conduct the SECC-2011||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-23
07-10-2021||Opinion||A Promethean moment||Real life has a way of surprising theory. One of the most intensely discussed theoretical questions on the Left has been how to bring agricultural labourers and peasants, including well-to-do peasants, together in a common struggle against landlord domination in India’s countryside. Numerous Marxist gatherings have for years discussed the contradiction between peasants and labourers holding up a decisive resolution of the contradiction between the landlords and the rest of the village.Whenever Left peasant organizations have participated in joint struggles with other, non-Left, peasant organizations, they have insisted on incorporating some demands of agricultural labourers to bring the latter into the fold; but it has not worked. The contradiction between peasants and labourers is not just economic — with the labourers’ desire for higher wages directly affecting the peasantry — it also has a caste dimension. The labourers belong mainly, though not exclusively, to the Dalit castes, while the peasants are typically non-Dalit; in fact, over large swathes of India, especially the North, Dalits were traditionally not allowed to own any land. In the surroundings of Delhi, this contradiction took the form of an acute Jat-Dalit contradiction. In fact, a village called Kanjhawala near Delhi had witnessed in the 1970s a prolonged face-off between the Jat peasantry and the Dalit agricultural labourers organized by the Communist Party of India over wage demands. This confrontation had been an object lesson on the problems confronting the Indian revolution. The current struggle of the peasants against the three farm laws enacted by the Narendra Modi government, however, has done the seemingly impossible; it has brought together peasants and agricultural labourers on a common platform. In fact, the organizers of the kisan mahapanchayat held in Muzaffarnagar on September 5 claimed with pride that the attendance at the venue showed the agitation enjoying the support of ‘all classes’, ‘all castes’ and ‘all religions’. The Bharat Bandh on September 27 received support from the Bahujan Samaj Party despite that party’s going-it-alone proclivity which indicates massive churning at the ground level. This churning is not confined only to relations between peasants and labourers, or Jats and Dalits. It is visible in at least two other ways. One is the mass participation of women in the struggle. Jat peasant women, though proverbially feisty individually, are also, traditionally, victims of patriarchal attitudes; their participating on a large-scale in mass gatherings and mass meetings constitutes a novel and unprecedented phenomenon. The other is the relation between Jats and Muslims of the region. This had been relatively cordial in the past, but had soured allegedly at the behest of the current ruling party in the run-up to the parliamentary elections in 2014. A mahapanchayat had been held in Muzaffarnagar in August 2013 over some communal incident that had an unfortunate fall-out in the form of large-scale riots. This polarized the population along communal lines and not only made the Bharatiya Janata Party the single largest party but also gave it an absolute majority. The peasant struggle has brought the two communities together, each promising not to repeat the mistake of the last seven years. Quite apart from its effect on caste, community and gender relations, the peasant struggle has been remarkable for lending support to a range of pressing democratic issues not directly connected with the peasants’ own demands. Thus, opposing the government’s proposed ‘monetization’ drive, the privatization of public sector assets, the attack on civil liberties, the use of State agencies like the Enforcement Directorate and the Central Bureau of Investigation to intimidate opponents and critics and the continued incarceration without trial of a large number of people, including the Bhima-Koregaon accused, the kisan movement has broken completely new ground. No kisan struggle in the past had been as comprehensive as the current one as regards to the democratic issues it has taken up for the country as a whole. This sort of Promethean role, according to Marxist theory, is supposed to be played by the working class, with the peasantry remaining, at best, an ally of the workers, but never by the peasantry on its own. It is often argued that when the peasantry leads the anti-colonial struggle, it lacks any clear idea of the society that should be built after the end of colonial rule; but here we have the peasantry defending secularism, democracy and the Constitution against attempts to subvert them. In these attempts, segments of the urban middle class, whom John Maynard Keynes had called the “educated bourgeoisie” and placed great faith in as the element that would make the State an embodiment of reason, are ironically complicit. How is it that a class often dismissed as embodying the “idiocy of rural life” suddenly finds itself ahead of more ‘progressive’ social classes in defending democracy and constitutional values? A part of the answer lies no doubt in the changed circumstances in which this class finds itself. In the era of monopoly capitalism, there is an assault by monopoly capital on petty production, including peasant agriculture, so that the peasants have to fight not just landlordism as before but also the monopoly capitalists, the most ‘advanced’ section of society. In India, this exposure of peasant agriculture to encroachment by monopoly capital acquired momentum with the introduction of neoliberal policies. Earlier, under the dirigiste regime, the State had protected peasant agriculture from encroachment by monopoly capital. But this protection ended with neoliberalism: agricultural input subsidies were cut, price support withdrawn on cash crops, and institutional credit denied. The consequent decline in profitability and growth of indebtedness drove lakhs of peasants to suicide. Whatever residual protection is still offered by the State, through price-support for foodgrains, is now being denied through the three farm laws. The peasants are forced to rise above themselves to fight their new, ‘sophisticated’ enemy, consisting of domestic monopolists and international agri-business. The other part of the answer lies in the struggle itself, which revolutionizes peasants’ attitudes, getting rid of old casteist, communal and patriarchal prejudices. And what a struggle it has been! Prabhat Patnaik is Professor Emeritus, Centre for Economic Studies, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-23
