08-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: A tragicomedy||Chacha Chaudhary, an Indian comic book character, has been made brand ambassador for Namami Gange, the prime minister’s flagship project. The National Mission for Clean Ganga hopes to raise awareness among children about the need for behavioural changes towards the Ganga and other rivers with a bit of help from Chaudhary who is popular in this age group. But will Chaudhary also reveal the bitter truth that in seven years, only 37 per cent of the funds sanctioned for the Namami Gange project has been utilized? Unsurprisingly, the plan to build a robust sewage infrastructure — three-fourths of the Ganges’s pollution is caused by the municipal sewage from about 100 cities and towns — remains unrealized; only 39 per cent of the sewage projects has been completed. It is unlikely that Chaudhary, a hero on paper only, would be able to stop industrial discharge, which is one of the main sources of pollution of the Ganges. That is the responsibility of the government. Ironically, the lockdown achieved what the powers that be failed to. A study by the Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur showed that the shutdown of industrial operations last year had reduced chemical and heavy metal contamination of the Ganges by more than 50 per cent, albeit temporarily. The Ganges’s rejuvenation is not just a political task; it must be reimagined as a public commitment. Therefore, the social ecosystem around the river needs to be transformed. This, in turn, can only be achieved by instituting incremental, but persuasive, changes in public behaviour to erase regressive customs. In a country where the dead are still sent floating down the river in the hope of divine deliverance, the Bharatiya Janata Party is unlikely to discover the spine to discourage such rituals, fearing political backlash. The Ganges is not the only river in danger: most of India’s principal riverine systems are being allowed to deteriorate. Unchecked pollution and restrictions on water flow are two major threats. What allows governments to get away with such lapses is the tepid nature of public concern about the depredations on the fragile environment. Even interventions by courts — the Uttarakhand High Court had accorded the Ganges and the Yamuna legal rights before the apex court stayed the verdict — have not resulted in urgent changes, either in policy or in the public consciousness. The reliance on Chacha Chaudhary to turn the tide is thus tragicomic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-22
08-10-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Recent flooding in Bengal||Blame game Sir — The recent flooding in Bengal, following the release of dam water by the Damodar Valley Corporation, has affected nearly 22 lakh people (“Drowned”, Oct 5). The loss of property and damage to agriculture are substantial. The immediate response of those who are accountable is to pass the blame. The Damodar — dubbed the ‘Sorrow of Bengal’ —  has several dams and barrages in order to control the water flow for irrigation and power generation. During monsoon, water needs to be released to keep the dams from bursting and flooding the entire downstream region. The body responsible for doing this, the DVC — a Central organization — should take steps to alleviate the misery of the people, especially the downstream area. The modernization of dams and de-silting programmes need to be undertaken at once. Ashok Kumar Ghosh,Calcutta Sir — Twenty blocks in South Bengal have been badly affected by the floods. The chief minister, Mamata Banerjee, has blamed the Centre for this situation. But this allegation may not hold water. The DVC authorities are compelled to release excess water from dams after heavy rains. The fact that Banerjee had previously talked to the Centre about the need for de-siltation of the dams has given the state government a golden opportunity to put the blame on the Centre. But this is an expensive project. Further, it requires a huge tract of land to stockpile the silt, which was not readily available. Shyamal Thakur,East Burdwan Sir — As always, the Centre and the state government have begun blaming one another for the floods that have affected lakhs of people. But neither party can fool the people into believing that it stands for public good unless concrete action is taken to prevent such incidents in the future. The common people are treated like pawns by political leaders. No financial compensation will be enough for the losses they have suffered. Swarnava Maity,Howrah Sir — Only a thorough investigation will reveal who is accountable for the disastrous South Bengal floods. The passing of the buck must stop. Both the Centre and the Bengal government must join hands to save the people from the aftermath of the deluge. Sheetal Bharadwaj,Calcutta Sir — It is unfortunate that while one part of Bengal’s population is gearing up for Durga Puja, another part has lost whatever little it had to the floods. While the government must ensure that financial compensation reaches every affected household, the common people, too, could spare a thought for the flood victims. Several organizations are at work, trying to reach out to them with relief material. One must contribute whatever one can. Reshmi Singh,Calcutta Sudden halt Sir — The recent six-hour outage of Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp caused users to panic. After all, WhatsApp and Facebook Messenger are apparently the most used instant messaging apps in a large number of places. This panic could have been avoided. A fundamental feature of the internet is its decentralized structure — there are always multiple avenues of completing an action, whether with another email client, search engine or messaging app. Over-reliance on any particular service is bound to cause such problems. History has taught us that monopolies are never a viable option; this lesson should guide our outlook towards the internet. Abhijit Pramanik,Hooghly Sir — The world almost came to a standstill when Facebook, WhatsApp and Instagram stopped functioning for six hours. The owner of these apps, Mark Zuckerberg, climbed down on the list of the world’s richest people by losing millions on account of the outage. The response from users proves how dependent we have become on social media apps — these days, human life seems unimaginable without them. Janga Bahadur Sunuwar,Jalpaiguri  Buckle up Sir — Indian shops are not the only ones bursting at the seams. With the ‘back-to-school season’ in full swing, the retail sector in the West has recovered somewhat from the hits it took during the lockdown. For instance, the apparel brand, Levi Strauss, revealed that its profits have picked up 56 per cent over 2019. It was especially tough on the clothing industry, since the purchase of outdoor apparel fell by a massive margin. But while big brands will be able to get back on their feet quickly, smaller brands are unlikely to survive the losses incurred. Governments must come up with a safety net for them. Amitava Gupta,Calcutta Parting shot Sir — Hearteningly, the government has decided to form an expert committee to set a national minimum wage for all casual workers. Attention needs to be paid to the plight of domestic workers. A minimum wage of at least Rs 60 an hour must be made compulsory for such workers with one day off per week. Utpal Kumar Basu,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-22
08-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Rich bloom||Differences in language in a multilingual country like India can lead to occasions for wry humour. The recent uproar in Karnataka over the Centre’s christening of some welfare schemes in Hindi — the Bharatiya Janata Party’s preferred lingua franca — is a case in point. The ‘Tika Utsav’ — the Centre’s push for inoculation against Covid-19 — set tongues wagging in the southern state since ‘tika’ in Kannada means, quite literally, the rear side. The BJP has now been forced to step in; Tika Utsav has, mercifully, been renamed ‘Lasika Utsava’. ‘Lasika’, in Kannada, means immunization. Similar heartburn has also been reported regarding the name, ‘Tithi Bhojan’, part of the mid-day meal scheme, since the term is associated with a sombre occasion. It would not be an exaggeration to speculate that the disproportionate use of Hindi in welfare schemes is likely to evoke both dark humour as well as outrage in parts of the country that prefer other languages as means of communication. What appears to be comical can, however, be an occasion for reflection on the challenge posed by ‘language imperialism’. Language has shaped India’s political history in significant ways, both as an agent of unity and division. The nation’s unity came about as a result of the pluralistic spirit that informed the creation of states on the basis of representation of language and, in turn, unique identities. At the same time, anxieties concerning the unilateral imposition of a particular language — ‘Hindi, Hindu, Hindustan’ is a problematic ideological goal of India’s current regime — have led to strife. Conditions that created the anti-Hindi campaign witnessed in parts of India should not be replicated. The greater thrust should be on consolidating India’s multi-linguistic heritage. This should go beyond the homilies pledged in policy. For instance, the National Education Policy prioritized the adoption of a four-language policy, including the mother tongue. Yet, a significant number of Indian languages, especially those that are used by people on the margins, are faced with extinction. This contradiction cannot be addressed without support and sensitivity from the political dispensation. Unfortunately, there has been a marked paucity in this respect with persistent concerns about the BJP-led national government’s precise motives. What must be noted is that linguistic aggression transcends instrumental imperatives: there is also an ethical underpinning. The survival of multiple languages is critical to maintaining the diversity and richness of the essence of Indian democracy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-22
08-10-2021||Opinion||Guns over roses||The disturbing images of the attack on the Kabul airport in August were a reminder of the grave threat posed by terrorism. With the Taliban’s takeover of Afghanistan, the international community needs to take proactive measures to tackle this threat. As per the Global Terrorism Index, 2020, released by the Institute of Economics and Peace, deaths due to terrorism decreased by 15.5 per cent in 2019 after peaking in 2014. Yet, terrorism remains a major concern for world peace. In 2019, more than 63 countries reported at least one death to a terrorist attack. South Asia is worst affected by terrorism, followed by sub-Saharan Africa, on account of the Islamic State’s renewed focus in the region after its decline in Syria and Iraq. There is a possibility that in spite of the Taliban’s assurance, Afghan territory could be used by terrorist outfits to target neighbouring countries. These groups include al-Qaida and Lashkar-e-Toiba (targeting India), Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (targeting Pakistan), the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant-Khorasan Province (responsible for the attack on the Hamid Karzai airport), Uighurs (targeting China) and so on. The rapid expansion of terrorist groups, such as the Boko Haram in sub-Saharan Africa, should also ring alarm bells for the international community. In 2019, the majority of terrorist attacks took place in countries experiencing conflict. Ethnic and religious differences along with corruption have a correlation with terrorism in developing and poorer nations, whereas exclusion and alienation are the primary causes of such violence in the advanced economies. Socio-economic deprivation, foreign intervention and the rise of online radicalization with the rise of internet penetration also contribute to terror activities. As per the Global Terrorism Index, 13,826 people died in terrorist attacks in 2019. The economic loss was pegged at $26.4 billion. This excludes losses from impact on business, lost opportunity cost, tourism, mental trauma and so on. The global community’s response has been to create bodies such as the Regional Anti-Terrorist Structure under the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, designation of terrorists by the United Nations Security Council, Financial Action Task Force measures to check terror financing, the BRICS’s Counter Terrorism Strategy and so on. There is no universal definition of terrorism. This makes it difficult to classify attacks as terror strikes. India proposed the adoption of a Comprehensive Convention on International Terrorism in 1996. The treaty proposes a universal definition of terrorism, a ban on all terrorist groups, prosecution of all outfits, including cross-border terrorists. But a deadlock ensued because of differences in the international community regarding the clauses. The external affairs minister’s Eight Point Action Plan Against Terrorism proposed in the recently concluded UNSC meeting provides a holistic approach to deal with the rising threat of transnational terrorism. In order to deal with transnational terrorism, the world needs to get together and cooperate on multiple fronts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-22
08-10-2021||Opinion||New opening||From Washington to Canberra, much of the northern hemisphere has its eyes focused on the region termed the ‘Indo-Pacific’. In London, a new presence is central to the Boris Johnson government’s new focus on a global role for the United Kingdom. I’ve discussed the changing landscape for a post-Brexit Britain in a new co-authored paper for the British Foreign Policy Group thinktank, available for free here. One of the questions that occupied us was how far the relationship between India and China might reshape the region. Put simply, China’s economic and military strength is now second only to that of the United States of America. But India has cards to play, in diplomacy, trade, and influence, if it chooses to use them. The military aspects of India’s role in the region are the ones most frequently criticized by China. Over the past few years, there has been an increasing formalization of the Quad, the naval agreement by which India, Australia, Japan and the US come together to patrol the oceans against an opponent that remains unnamed, but most believe to be Beijing. China used to dismiss the Quad as being as insubstantial as “sea foam”, but now rails against it as a blow to (a Chinese-dominated) peace in the region. The Quad looks less isolated in the light of the new Aukus treaty announced last month which brings together the US, Australia and Britain in a regional pact. Rather than the region developing fixed, all-encompassing structures like Nato, it seems that Asian security may become more dependent on ‘mini-lateral’ agreements that bring together different actors for different purposes. What most of these groupings have in common is that they seem opposed to China, without ever stating that as their purpose. Yet the ability of countries inside and outside the region also flags up one of the great weaknesses in China’s position: it has few security partners because so few Asian actors want to see its role in the region increase. Every Asian actor wants access to the Chinese market; few want to become dependent on China for their security. This gives India the chance to move further and faster to embed itself in the region. To do so, it could seize the opportunity to use its advantage: most of China’s trade partners do not consider India a threat in the way that they are wary of China. This would mean potentially painful change in the medium term, however. China’s large domestic market is a key target for emerging Asian economies. India’s millions are also talked about in terms of future prosperity, but in practice, market barriers and a middle class still smaller and less affluent than China’s overall mean that India is not yet a true substitute for China. Refashioning Asia’s trade ecology to give India a greater role is complex and by no means pain-free. Yet India need not simply rely on the confrontation of the Quad, or the desire to replace China as a market partner for other Asian countries. It also has the opportunity to take a cooperative diplomatic lead. Unlike the other Quad members, India has an affiliation that is not shared by Quad members: membership of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation. The SCO is a perennial underperformer in international-organization terms, with few concrete achievements to its name. It has a disparate membership — China and Russia in the lead, but both India and Pakistan as well the central Asian countries — and a broadly defined security agenda, which provides a regional talking-shop. However, it does provide one of the few small-group entities where both India and China have equal membership. Generally, Russia and China continue to dominate the organization; however, Indian membership gives it the opportunity to make its strengths in the region known. In addition, Russia and India have a longstanding relationship dating back to the Cold War. While China’s new closeness to Russia on issues from energy to defence may have been more obvious in recent years, this does not exclude India from the chance to make use of its old friendships. The Association of Southeast Asian Nations provides an intriguing parallel. Asean has very few formal powers, nor does it demand uniform political systems (it contains both democratic and authoritarian states). Yet, over the years, this ‘talking-shop’ has actually become a powerful source of influence in the region. India may choose to leverage its SCO membership to create a cooperative, forward-looking influence that the organization simply does not have right now. After all, there is no lack of crises in the region that need influential powers to step up. It is indicative of how fast the situation in the region is moving that Afghanistan, an issue which seemed world-changing just a few weeks ago in mid-August, is now relegated to the inside pages of newspapers at best. A new consensus seems to have emerged in the West: the fall of Kabul was tragic for those, particularly women, trapped in the country and bad for American prestige, but overall, the decision to pull out was a good one. Instead, American focus should be on the western Pacific and on China. China itself has repeatedly argued that it does not welcome the fall of Afghanistan to the Taliban, and there are plenty of reasons to take them at their word. Certainly Beijing has been pleased at the humiliation of the West and has taken every opportunity to tell Washington and its friends that military intervention and forced democratization will end badly. Yet the American departure leaves China with a host of problems in the region. It has sought to find an accommodation with the Taliban, but is fully aware that the insurgents are no real friends of Beijing. Some prominent figures on social media in China have argued that the Taliban of 2021 are like the Chinese Communists of 1949, insurgent radicals with whom China should make common cause, but this interpretation does not stand up to much analysis. Above all, China wants to provide enough material support to the Taliban to remove any thought that they might want to support their fellow Muslims in Xinjiang where many thousands are being held in ‘re-education’ camps where their religion and language are being forcibly programmed out of them. Beijing also has a long and fruitful relationship with Pakistan, but (like the US) is never sure whether Islamabad’s links with radical Islamic groups can really rein those groups in; there is growing concern about the number of Chinese civilians, diplomats included, who have been murdered in both Pakistan and Afghanistan. Yet China is also desperate not to send its own troops in, an act which would destroy any credibility for its argument that it is different from the US when it comes to military intervention. The last thing that Beijing wants is an unstable Afghanistan that degenerates into civil war, and where Chinese lives and investments are in danger. India may choose to become part of the solution. The prospect of an unstable Afghanistan is alarming for New Delhi as well, and skilled diplomacy, based on India’s existing role providing development assistance to the country, could provide ways to avoid a disaster. The use of India’s influence to bring stability, rather than conflict, to the region would be a powerful contribution in an Indo-Pacific where confrontation looks too dangerously possible. Rana Mitter is author, with Sophia Gaston, of the report, “Resetting UK-China relations"||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-23
