09-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Meet the real 007||Spies, real or imagined, belong to the twilight zone. Furtive or ambiguous at best, their shadowy self is their greatest weapon to avoid detection. Some of the greatest flesh-and-blood spies of the world perfected this art of subterfuge. Melita Norwood, for instance, was an ‘innocuous’ assistant to the director of one of Britain’s atomic research centres, passing secrets on to the Russians. She evaded identification for almost four decades. Harold Philby’s access to the upper echelons of power — something that even surprised the usually unflappable Stalin — was made possible only because of his unassuming ways. Larry Wu-tai Chin, a mole for the Chinese communist party, went on to occupy sensitive positions in the American administration and military. Ironically, the carefully constructed image of the spy as a secretive creature was blown to smithereens with the arrival of — albeit on screen — the biggest spy of them all. James Bond has always been brash, ostentatious, promiscuous, larger than life — in other words, 007 is everything that manuals on espionage around the world would surely ask promising candidates not to be. But it seems that even Bond has had his all-too-visible wings clipped. In his latest adventure — No Time to Die has been received with a tumultuous welcome — the spy is hardly the over-the-top hero he is known to be. Pussy Galore would note — with relief — that James no longer forces himself on non-consenting women; neither does he leave Alcoholics Anonymous shaken and stirred by guzzling endless alcohol; he also seems to have discovered, at long last, that women and ethnic minorities need to be respected. The testosterone-driven, unabashedly masculine, gun-loving Bond seems to have become — almost — a modern, suave, self-effacing gentleman. Even his vocation has acquired a touch of realism. Bond, like his real peers in the British Secret Intelligence Service, tries to shun the licence to kill. The reasons for Bond becoming believable could be many. Middle age — Bond is, initially, in retirement in the film — cools down both testosterone and adventurism. After a lifetime of promiscuity and spilling blood, Bond could well be suffering a bite from his conscience. But James’s bonding with reality could also be because of a deeper, collective anxiety. In a world battling existential crises — from environmental Armageddon to a lethal virus — humanity seems to have discovered that heroes in real life do not wear tuxedos or capes: they, more often or not, are found draped in a doctor’s coat, wearing the scientist’s glasses or in workman’s clothes hunched in front of a computer. This tempering of the imagination with a dose of realism is likely to be temporary. Yet it could have interesting implications on the fictive realm — writing, cinema and the arts. Could culture’s renouncement — however transient — of the Believe it or Not syndrome lead to the revitalization of the wave of realism in the dizzyingly diverse creative universe? This could well be a sobering comeuppance for a civilization that has brought itself to the very edge of the abyss with the help of hubris and toxic fantasies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-22
09-10-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: BJP removes Varun and Maneka Gandhi from national executive committee||Firm stand Sir — The Bharatiya Janata Party removed Varun and Maneka Gandhi from its national executive committee hours after the former tweeted that the police should identify those involved in the death of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri and arrest them immediately (“BJP ire on Varun and Maneka”, Oct 8). When the BJP national president, J.P. Nadda, announced the 80-member list, people were quite surprised to see the Gandhis missing. This is a clear indication of the top leadership’s discontent with Varun Gandhi. The mother-son duo must take this opportunity to reconsider their political affiliation and break away from the sangh parivar. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Sir — Varun Gandhi must be appreciated for speaking up against the violence at Lakhimpur Kheri. His firm stance against the brutal incident is in sharp contrast to the continued silence of the prime minister, Narendra Modi. While a thorough investigation must be conducted, it is evident from videos that a speeding vehicle trampled the peaceful protesters on the fateful day. After days of protests, two arrests have been made, but Ashish Mishra — son of the Union minister, Ajay Mishra, and the primary accused in the case — is still roaming free. The BJP’s lack of action shows how little it cares for the common people. K. Nehru Patnaik,Visakhapatnam Breathless Sir — According to a recent study by the network, C40 Cities, Calcutta witnessed 2,200 premature deaths owing to coal power plants in 2019 (“Choked”, Oct 7). The study further projected that the city is likely to witness 10,000 more premature deaths by 2030. These are alarming figures. If India is to meet the 2030 emissions goal, it must change its energy generation strategy immediately. Further, the health costs associated with coal pollution are estimated to stand at $46.5 billion over the next decade, more than twice India’s total public health expenditure in 2018. By continuing to support coal-fired power plants, the Centre and state governments are threatening the health of citizens as well as affecting India’s air quality targets. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — The report by C40 Cities shows that about 20 per cent of India’s coal-generated electricity is restricted to within 500 kilometres of Calcutta. Yet, air pollution from coal-fired power plants travels long distances, putting everyone at risk, especially vulnerable citizens such as the young, the elderly and pregnant women. The state should take this up with the Centre. Kanchana Gupta,Calcutta Timeless act Sir — The demise of veteran actor, Arvind Trivedi, who played the role of Raavana in Ramanand Sagar’s Ramayan has broken the hearts of his fans. He was a mainstay of Hindi film and television and had acted in over 300 films. Trivedi will be remembered for his iconic role. Sourish Misra,Calcutta Sir — The news of Arvind Trivedi’s death comes on the heels of Ghanshyam Nayak’s demise. We rarely appreciate the contributions of TV actors the way we adore film stars. They will be missed. Ishan Anand,Bokaro  Just words Sir — Audiobooks have become a popular way of introducing children to reading. These are supposed to expose kids to a variety of topics that may be difficult for them to read about on their own and help in speech development and listening skills. Yet, the visual component of children’s books is crucial. Without illustrations accompanying the words, children are unlikely to understand the import of the words they are hearing. Equally important is for children to visualize the alphabets — if they just hear words, they may confuse similar-looking alphabets such as ‘b’ and ‘d’ at a later stage. Perhaps audiobooks for children should come with illustrated books to match image to text. Preetha Sarkar,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-22
09-10-2021||Opinion||Positive notes: Global Citizen Festival||The star-studded Global Citizen Festival took place on the Central Park lawns in upper Manhattan on September 25. It was a 24-hour outdoor concert — 60,000 people attended it — with eminent musicians performing live. Performances also took place in Lagos, Paris, Rio de Janeiro, Los Angeles, London, Sydney, Mumbai and other cities. The festival is a fundraising campaign to address crises like hunger, climate change, and inequity in vaccine distribution. Noteworthy performances in New York included those by Jennifer Lopez, who herself hails from the Bronx, and the celebrity couple, Shawn Mendes and Camila Cabello — they performed separate sets, but Cabello did bring Mendes to the stage for their duet hit, “Senorita”. Lizzo energized the crowd with “Good as Hell” and “Truth Hurts”. The royal couple, Prince Harry and Meghan Markle, also dropped by. Prince Harry discussed the importance of vaccine equity. This music festival is part of Global Citizen’s year-long campaign, Recovery Plan for the World, where it calls upon governments and leaders to commit money to “kickstart an equitable global recovery.” While you didn’t have to buy tickets with money, you had to ‘earn’ your ticket. Through the app, you were invited to share educational messages on social media, sign petitions or write letters to local politicians to rack up ‘points’ to obtain a ticket. Heavyweight champion Every fall, the Katmai National Park and Preserve in Alaska hosts a competition to celebrate resilience and strength within nature. And who better to award but the fattest bear in town? What started out as Fat Bear Tuesday seven years ago has evolved into Fat Bear Week with the goal to evaluate how fat the Alaska bears get before hibernation in the upcoming winter. The park pits the participating bears against each other for people to vote online for who they believe is the fattest bear, in a manner similar to the NFL March Madness where winning teams per game dwindle by process of elimination. The competition commenced on September 29 and finished on October 5. The Katmai Park has just over 2,000 bears who feast heavily on sock-eye salmon. This year’s winner is 480 Otis. A total of over 7,93,000 votes were cast across all the rounds. Celebrate diversity We are in the middle of the country’s celebration of Hispanic Heritage Month, which spans from September 15 to October 15. It started as a week-long celebration in 1968 until President Ronald Reagan expanded it to a month in 1988. Who falls under the umbrella identity of Hispanic is a fraught question even today. When the US Census Bureau was trying to account for the presence of immigrants from Central American, South American and other countries, there was a lot of debate on how to group them. The terms, Hispanic, Latino, and even Brown, were thrown around. The word, Hispanic, comes from the Spanish word, Hispano, referring to someone coming from Spain. However, the origins and identities of people migrating from Latin American nations are complex, and not necessarily tied to Spain. The term, Latinx, is being brought to use more frequently, both as an alternative to Hispanic and as a gender-inclusive word. One of TV’s largest broadcast networks, NBCUniversal, features specials and segments, including “Generation LatinX”, “Dis(Owning) Hispanic” and “The New Latino Landscape”, to discuss the history and identity of the Latinx population — 62 million Americans. Other TV outlets and shows will showcase prominent Latinx business leaders, athletes who have faced challenges as well as film icons. In New York, the 57th annual Hispanic Day parade will take place tomorrow with 21 countries with delegations showcasing their music. Typically, celebrations involve food, music and dance around the Latinx culture. While those are important, discussions on history and plight are also crucial and this is somewhere the American education system is lagging behind. Curtain rises The much anticipated Academy Museum of Motion Pictures finally opened its doors last month in Los Angeles with a splashy green carpet with Hollywood stars appearing to pay homage to cinema. The seven-storey, 300,000 square-foot museum, which cost half a billion dollars, features a building that looks like a giant transparent sphere. Some refer to its shape as the ‘Death Star’, and the Los Angeles Times called it a ‘giant eye-ball’. Tickets cost $25 for adults to tour the museum. With an additional charge, you can enjoy the immersive, high-tech Oscar award ceremony simulation. The museum is already becoming a trendy spot, booked to be the location for the premieres of Ridley Scott’s drama, House of Gucci, starring Lady Gaga, and Guillermo del Toro’s Nightmare Alley. The opening night included Lady Gaga, H.E.R, Robert Pattinson, Zooey Deschanel, Rebel Wilson and many others. “It matters for Los Angeles to have this film museum,” said the actor, Tom Hanks, to a crowd during a media preview event a few days before the public opening, reported Daily News. The museum includes galleries showing the history of cinema, interactive displays, props from movies and the old projectors used prior to modern cameras. FOOTNOTE MGM Resorts in Las Vegas is teaming up with an auctioneer to sell 11 original Picasso paintings. It will take place on October 23, commemorating Picasso’s 140th birthday. So far the pieces have been displayed in exhibitions around the globe. Of these, Femme au béret rouge-orange, a portrait of his muse, Marie-Thérèse Walter, is expected to go for $20-$30 million. If that’s a little out of your budget, you could consider the least expensive item — a ceramic pitcher estimated at $60,000-$80,000.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-22
09-10-2021||Opinion||The kisan’s Sardar||In 1931, the annual meeting of the Indian National Congress was held in the port city of Karachi. Vallabhbhai Patel was elected president. Early in his address, Patel remarked: “You have called a simple farmer to the highest office to which any Indian can aspire. I am conscious that your choice of me as first servant is not so much for what little I might have done, but it is the recognition of the amazing sacrifice made by Gujarat. Out of your generosity you have singled out Gujarat for that honour. But in truth every province did its utmost during… the greatest national awakening that we have known in modern times.” In 1931, the Congress had been in existence for more than four decades. Yet in this time, it had never before elected a person born in a peasant household to head the organization, this despite Mahatma Gandhi’s own claim — and exhortation — that “India lives in her villages.” All past presidents of the Congress had been city-bred and city-raised. Vallabhbhai Patel was the first major leader of the freedom movement who came from a rural background. Notably, it was as a mobilizer of peasants that he first made his mark on the national stage. Recent discussions of Patel’s historical legacy have stressed his crucial role in the integration of the princely states and in furthering national unity in the aftermath of Independence and Partition. Those contributions were indeed substantial, but it would be a pity if an exclusive attention to them obscures his formative work as a peasant organizer. Indeed, it is Patel as a Sardar (leader) of the kisans who seems most relevant to us today when, for more than a year now, peasants in northern India have sustained a satyagraha against the Narendra Modi government. The Bardoli Satyagraha of 1928, which was led and organized by Vallabhbhai Patel, emphatically demonstrated the power and potential of non-violence in the cause of peasant self-respect. In this struggle, kisans in rural Gujarat mobilized against the oppressive agrarian policies of the colonial State. Rich details of their movement are contained in the records of the Bombay Presidency, now housed in the Maharashtra State Archives in Mumbai. Patel’s speeches in Bardoli during the months of the satyagraha make for riveting reading, even in translation. In one, he asked the peasants to show courage and sacrifice: “What are you afraid of?” he said in Gujarati: “Confiscation? You waste thousands after marriage ceremonies, then why worry if the [government] officers take away goods worth Rs. 200 or Rs. 500?” “In this struggle,” said the Sardar to the peasants of Bardoli, “it is better to have five persons who are ready to die instead of having five thousand sheep.” In another speech, Patel sarcastically observed that “the Government has kept a steam-roller to suppress the farmers of Gujarat.” In a third, Patel remarked that “a pro-government newspaper says that Gujarat is suffering from Gandhi fever. Let’s hope that everybody gets such a fever.” A police report commented, with some alarm, that Vallabhbhai was consulting “the leaders of almost every village in the [Bardoli] taluka”. Supplementing the archival records of the colonial State are the old microfilms of that splendid (but now sadly defunct) newspaper, The Bombay Chronicle. In the last week of April 1928, the Chronicle reported as follows on a kisan sabha: “At a cultivators’ meeting at Varad yesterday night enthusiastic scenes of devotion and worship showered upon Mr. Vallabhbhai Patel were witnessed. Women dressed in Khadi, with garlands of hand-spun yarn and offerings of flowers, cocoanut, red powder and rice were paying their respects and making obeisance in unending chains. Songs composed by pious matrons among women-folk, in some places altered to suit the present occasion, invoking God to bless them in their holy struggle for truth were recited by about five hundred women, which gave a religious turn to the congregation consisting of about 2,500 souls.” In August, the Chronicle reported on a settlement between the satyagrahis and the State, whereby the government agreed to an enquiry “by a Judicial Officer associated with a Revenue Officer the opinion of the former prevailing in all disputed points”. The State released all satyagrahis from jail and reinstated village headmen who had resigned. In his book on the Bardoli Satyagraha — published in 1929 — Mahadev Desai writes that Sardar Patel’s “apotheosis of the peasant has a twofold basis — his keen sense of the very high place of the peasant in a true social economy, and his poignant anguish at the very low state to which he has been reduced”. “He is the producer, the others are parasites,” said Patel of the Indian peasant. The satyagraha succeeded in Bardoli, writes Desai, because the Sardar taught his fellow peasants two fundamental lessons — the lesson of fearlessness, and the lesson of unity. Almost a hundred years separate the peasant struggle that Patel led in Bardoli with the kisan andolan of today. Yet the parallels are hard to miss. On the one side, the role of women in sustaining the movement, and the quiet heroism of the satyagrahis, who have braved winter, summer, monsoon and a pandemic and kept their struggle going. On the other side, the attempt by the State to stall and delay, to divide the movement, and to spread falsehoods about its leaders. Thus, in a note dated July 28, 1928, the Bombay Government claimed that Patel had “kept Gandhi out of the movement … because he does not want it to be controlled by a man who would stick at blood-shed and who would cloud the issue by laying stress on spinning, untouchability and so on.” The report went on to make the staggeringly libellous remark that “Vallabbhai [sic] himself is fond of the bottle and in many ways not unlike Rasputin.” Back in the 1920s, the collaborators with the raj included Brahmin revenue officials and hired goons brought in from outside Gujarat. Now, in the 2020s, it is the police and the godi media that aid the postcolonial State, the first in suppressing the peasants, the second in distorting their message and defaming their leaders. Indeed, in the range of repressive methods used against the farmers — water cannons, the installation of metal spikes on roads, internet shutdowns, hate-filled propaganda — the Modi-Shah regime has exceeded even the White Man’s raj. Vallabhbhai Patel’s early biographer, Narhari Parikh, quotes him as telling the peasants: “Remember that you who are prepared to lose your all for the sake of truth must win in the end. Those people who have joined hands with the officers will regret their action.” As a follower of Gandhi, Patel hoped that the force of truth and non-violence would in the end compel the government to see reason. “There will be a satisfactory settlement,” he said in one speech, “only when the Government’s attitude changes. When there is a change of heart, we shall immediately find that bitterness and hostility, which now move the Government to action, have been replaced by sympathy and understanding.” Today’s kisan leaders have been animated by the same spirit of hope, although past experience suggests that sentiments of sympathy and understanding may be even more foreign to this regime than they were to the British. I shall end this column as I began it, by quoting from Sardar Patel’s Congress Presidential Address of 1931. Here, while speaking of the great national upsurge led by Gandhi, he remarked that “it is a fact beyond challenge that India has given a singular proof to the world that mass non-violence is no longer the idle dream of a visionary or a mere human longing. It is a solid fact capable of infinite possibilities for a humanity which is groaning, for want of faith, beneath the weight of violence of which it has become almost a fetish. The greatest proof that our movement was non-violent lies in the fact that the peasants falsified the fears of our worst sceptics. They were described as very difficult to organise for non-violent action and it is they who stood the test with a bravery and an endurance that was beyond all expectations. Women and children too contributed their great share in the fight. They responded to the call by instinct and played a part which we are too near the event adequately to measure. And I think it would be not at all wrong to give them the bulk of the credit for preservation of non-violence and the consequent success of the movement.” These words of 1931 make for moving reading in 2021, when, once again, peasants in India have offered dignified and resolute resistance to an unfeeling and possibly uncaring administration. ramachandraguha@yahoo.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-22
