10-10-2021||Opinion||Reflected Glory||Days before the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, the “best performing chief minister of India” Adityanath appointed “best actress” Kangana Ranaut as ambassador for a recently launched Uttar Pradesh government programme. The Centre’s National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG) showed more imagination; it chose comic character Chacha Chaudhary. The NMCG, which has tied up with Diamond Toons, has announced something about related content being designed with the objective of bringing about behavioural change amongst children towards the Ganges and other rivers. Chacha Chaudhary, however, is not only old himself, he was also created in 1971, and is therefore a whole different context and world away. Match the following For its “Desh ke Mentor” initiative, wherein experienced professionals will mentor children enrolled in Delhi government schools, the Kejriwal government has chosen actor Sonu Sood as its mascot. In more peaceful days, not too long ago, the captain of Punjab had chosen Sood as the brand ambassador for his government’s Covid-19 vaccination drive. Punjab, of course, will have many ambassadors till 2022. Rajasthan, in the meantime, has chosen Avani Lekhara, who won a gold at the Tokyo Paralympics this year, as the face of Beti Bachao Beti Padhao. Shah Rukh Khan is Bengal’s ambassador; a point the BJP never fails to rub in. Outsider. Insider. Recently, the BJP’s Dilip Ghosh said, “The BJP is called outsiders, but if you (Banerjee) wanted a superstar as brand ambassador for West Bengal then you could have chosen Dev… you could have chosen Soumitra Chatterjee, but you selected Shah Rukh Khan. Don’t we understand why?” And yet, Ghosh’s party colleagues had no problem taking on Jamshedpur-born Priyanka Chopra as the brand ambassador of Assam. It was only after her inaction during the Assam floods was questioned --- the actress was tweeting instead --- that Himanta Biswa Sarma clarified that her ambassadorship had ended. Amitabh Bachchan, who used to be UP’s brand ambassador, actually offered to be the brand ambassador of Gujarat. Insider or Outsider, Ghoshbabu? In 2016, Bachchan replaced Aamir Khan. At the time, the switch was attributed to Khan’s comments about “rising intolerance in India”. Actor Govinda is the brand ambassador of Madhya Pradesh, but Anshika Gupta, a Class X student, was appointed brand ambassador for Beti Bachao Beti Padhao Yojana by the state government. Some years ago, word got around that the Kerala government had appointed German tennis legend Steffi Graf as the ambassador of its ayurveda heritage. And yet Graf had never visited the state and no one had checked if she was willing to lend her name either. But people concerned explained that the influx of German tourists to the state had increased and Graf being so fit and all had seemed like an able ally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-21
10-10-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Netflix lost in translation?||Lost meaning Sir — The Korean Netflix show, Squid Game, has taken the world by storm with its unique take on class and capitalism. But many bilingual Korean speakers have exposed the show’s faulty translations that dramatically affect a non-Korean speaker’s perception. This is not the first time Netflix has been guilty of weak translation. Many Hindi shows face similar problems. While it is not possible to always capture the nuances of language, a good translator can make a huge difference. Netflix must invest in hiring quality translators if it hopes to do justice to non-English-speaking shows. Srirupa Banerjee, Calcutta Second best Sir — It was delightful to read the report, “Beethoven’s 10th is finished by a machine” (Oct 3). Ludwig van Beethoven left behind some musical notes and sketchy ideas for the 10th symphony which he could not finish owing to deteriorating health. A group of musicologists and scientists formulated a computer programme to finish the unfinished 10th symphony using his completed symphonies and notes. While this is a novel effort, a caveat must be added: the genius of Beethoven was such that no two symphonies were alike. While the symphony produced by artificial intelligence may be an excellent piece of music, it will certainly not be as sublime as the original would have been. An interesting experiment would be to follow the same computer programme to try and generate the ninth symphony anew. Then people will have a clear idea about how close to — or far from — the original the new symphony is. Tapes Chandra Lahiri, Calcutta Green deficit Sir — It is disturbing to see the irresponsibility of our elected representatives and the seeming apathy of the media towards their shortcomings. After a delay of two years, the construction of the skywalk leading to the Kalighat temple is finally set to begin post Durga Puja. But in order to do so, yet another green patch in the city has been appropriated and turned into a marketplace to accommodate displaced shopkeepers. Calcutta is inching towards a ‘green famine’. Although parks have been taken up by dispensations across the political spectrum, the current one seems more ruthless than most. This is especially scary in the light of a survey published in The Lancet Planetary Health, which ranks Bengal among the top states in India with a high incidence of air pollution-related deaths. In spite of such red flags, the state government does not seem to care. Parks, water bodies and even our internationally acclaimed wetlands are being consumed in the name of development. This is no short of State-sponsored environmental terrorism and should stop immediately. Chitto Ghosh, Calcutta Smokescreen Sir — The collective obsession with Aryan Khan’s arrest is diverting attention from important problems afflicting the nation. Drug busts and arrests at rave parties are neither new nor rare. If Khan is guilty, he will be punished — one hopes given his young age he is given a chance to repent and reform if indeed he is guilty. But surely that is not the biggest problem in the country at present. Soumyadeep Deb, Calcutta Sir — Bollywood has become a convenient scapegoat for the powers that be. Each time it bungles up, it sends the Narcotics Control Bureau to raid Bollywood celebrities. Lakhimpur Kheri is relegated to the back seat while people watch agog the same footage of Aryan Khan being taken to and fro by the NCB. The government’s actions are predictable by now, but it is the continued willingness of the people to overlook the real plight of their countrymen that is heartbreaking. Suvendu Ghatak, Delhi Sir — The media seems to have learnt nothing from how hounding Rhea Chakraborty backfired for them. Rima Roy, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-21
10-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Tone deaf||Melodious instruments do not a harmony make. The Union minister for road transport, Nitin Gadkari, has claimed that he is planning to introduce a law under which only the sound of Indian musical instruments would be used as horns in vehicles. He also intends to have police cars, ambulances and ministerial convoys play a unique melody — something akin to the signature Akashvani tune — instead of the blaring sirens. Mr Gadkari’s concerns are not misplaced. According to the World Health Organization, rising decibel levels are among the top risks to public health. Data suggest that one in every five individuals suffers from disturbed sleep because of traffic noise. Worse, studies have shown that the human body does not have the ability to adapt to the racket: even while one is asleep, seemingly oblivious to noise, the distant rumble of, say, trucks continues to trigger the adrenal glands to pump stress hormones into the body, raising blood pressure and heart rate. This heightens the risk of, among other ailments, coronary heart disease, dementia and depression. What must also be mentioned is that noise pollution is often a silent killer; its dangers are eclipsed by the risks of other kinds of pollution, such as that of air or water, that are discussed widely in the public domain. This makes noise pollution — it leaves no trace — a particularly lethal adversary to contain. But would Mr Gadkari’s ‘solution’ be music to the ears of the aam aadmi? In a cacophonous nation like India, with patchy civil awareness, minimal interest in traditional music as well as poor implementation of laws, it does not take much for sound — no matter how melodious — to turn into noise. Surely, being caught in a traffic snarl with the incessant beat of a tabla set to Bhairav — a morning raga — on one side and a sarod playing Khamaj — an evening raga — on the other cannot be considered too pleasant an experience? Moreover, police cars and ambulances have harsh sirens for a reason — how else would people hear and make way for them on the roads? It is unlikely that a sea of traffic would part on hearing the Akashvani jingle. The minister’s plan raises a concern. Evidently, even something as personal as the choice of music of citizens is no longer immune to government scrutiny in democratic India. The list of “Indian musical instruments”, too, strikes a discordant note. An imaginative Mr Gadkari has included the violin — it traces its ancestry to Europe — among Indian instruments; does this go well with his government’s emphasis on the local as opposed to the global? These are not the only queries. Given that India’s ruling party is known to be allergic to representativeness, would the humble ravanahatha or chenda be heard at traffic signals too? But Mr Gadkari should be thanked for reminding the nation that noise is seldom only about pollution; it is linked — deeply — with notions of power and powerlessness. He may want to transform traffic signals into impromptu orchestras, but can he silence the insufferable din that emanates from political rallies?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-21
10-10-2021||Opinion||Tejashwi wins Round 1 in 'war of letters' with Nitish||War of words Both the Bihar chief minister, Nitish Kumar, and the leader of the Opposition, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, are fond of hurling ‘missive missiles’ upon their targets. The latter often dispatches letters on problems in the state to Kumar, much to his chagrin. So when Tejashwi recently wrote one to him, highlighting the importance of the river-linking project for the state and asking him to do the needful, scribes asked Kumar about it. However, Kumar chose to make fun of it, asserting that he only hears from the media about such letters which never reach him. Stung by it, Tejashwi immediately shared a picture of his letter, duly stamped as received by the chief minister’s secretariat. “Not only the chief minister but the chief minister secretariat seems to have got tired... How can a chief minister of a state be so ignorant, disillusioned, and live in the dark that he publicly says that he has not received a letter from the opposition leader about issues of public importance,” Tejashwi said. Exhibiting that he is a wily politician, Kumar chose to keep quiet this time. Keep an eye out The Karnataka Congress chief, DK Shivakumar, always had a way with wit and repartee. With the whole nation discussing how the SUV of a Union minister’s son ploughed through protesting farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh — the incident led to the death of at least eight people — Shivakumar appealed to everyone to film moving cars of Bharatiya Janata Party leaders. His contention, possibly made half in jest, was that any video footage could end up being crucial evidence in some future investigation since one would never know when these leaders might run people over. Turn the tide It is no secret that the Congress leader, Ramesh Chennithala, is miffed at the recent developments in the party’s Kerala unit. After replacing him as leader of the Opposition following the poll debacle, the leadership quickly appointed K Sudhakaran as the new state party chief. While neither decision went down well with Chennithala and the old order, the old-timer has clearly set his ambitions high to climb his way back into the spotlight. The first thing he did was resign from various party organizations of which he had earlier assumed charge. He has since been interacting more with party workers and the media. The smart politician that he is, even his adversaries know he has the ability to turn the tide. Clean image The popularity of the Odisha CM, Naveen Patnaik, can be gauged from the fact that even though he had not campaigned for his party candidate, Rudra Pratap Maharathy, in the by-election to the Pipili assembly seat in Puri district this time, the Biju Janata Dal still won by a convincing margin of more than 20,000 votes. Even though all prominent BJP faces from the state, including the Union minister, Dharmendra Pradhan, and the national spokesperson, Sambit Patra, had campaigned for their party candidate, Ashrit Pattanayak, they failed to make a dent in the BJD bastion. BJD workers only went from door to door with Patnaik’s pictures and video messages. Both parties are yet to fully understand what connects people with Patnaik. While his critics say he wins because of a well-planned election strategy, others think that Patnaik’s clean image and pro-poor policy act as a magnet for voters. New mission The Election Commission is set to hire a private firm for 24-hour monitoring, response and maintenance of its website and social media handles, sources claimed. Routine flak online from activists and politicians has led the panel to shrug off its ‘publicity shyness’. But the expenditure — one staffer estimated it to be a couple of crores annually — is being questioned. Although lesser than what other public agencies spend on their online profile, the cost will be significantly higher than what is now paid to a clutch of temporary staff managing social media handles. In an informal discussion, an officer cited India’s 41 per cent internet penetration to suggest that such an outreach is unlikely to make much impact on voter enrolment. A source said they are being cautious to avoid a controversy like Maharashtra’s chief electoral officer faced last year by allegedly hiring a firm linked to the BJP. Secret reason The BJP has been hailing the prime minister, Narendra Modi, as the ‘globally loved leader’. While many leaders are competing in the game of sycophancy, the Madhya Pradesh CM, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, is standing out, raising eyebrows in party circles. Earlier this week, Modi completed 20 years as “head of a government”, and everyone in the party had to shower praise on him. Chouhan stood out by posting not one — like most senior leaders did — but around three tweets in praise of Modi. Recently, Chouhan was in Delhi to meet the PM. It was not clear if he was called or he went on his own. The meeting, amid generational change in the party, triggered whispers in the power corridors. The 62-year-old leader is the longest serving chief minister of the state. Many feel it is high time Chouhan now made way for the next generation. Is that why Chouhan wants to please the PM? Footnote: The ‘annual defacement’ show of the Hindutva rabble-rouser, Vishnu Gupta, got all the wrong optics this time with a video of him fleeing the police going viral. Gupta touts himself as a saviour of the capital’s Hindus and routinely defaces road signage with Islamic names, and organizes celebrations of Queen Victoria for ousting the Mughals and the former American president, Donald Trump. This year, too, he defaced the Akbar Road signage and gave bytes to TV channels until the cops showed up.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-22
10-10-2021||Opinion||Aural pleasure||Over the past few years, I have been obsessed with the work of the Australian novelist, Liane Moriarty. Yes, me and everyone else. Ever since her 2014 blockbuster, Big Little Lies, Moriarty has become one of the publishing industry’s most dependable hitmakers. Although her prose is unflashy and her subject matter seemingly pedestrian — Moriarty writes tightly-plotted domestic dramas about middle- and upper-middle-class suburbanites — her observations are so precise, her characters’ psychology so well realized, that I often find her stories burrowing deep into my brain and taking up long, noisy residence there. It’s no wonder Hollywood has been snapping up her books as quickly as she can write them. Big Little Lies and her 2018 hit, Nine Perfect Strangers, have been turned into limited series for television. Moriarty’s enthralling new novel, Apples Never Fall, which debuted last month at the top of The Times’s bestseller list, may also be heading to a streaming service near you. But now a confession: I heap all this praise on Moriarty having technically never read a word she’s written. Instead, I have only listened. The English audiobook versions of her novels are read by Caroline Lee, a narrator whose crystalline Australian cadences add to Moriarty’s stories what salt adds to a stew — necessary depth and dimension. Lee’s voice is an irresistible, visceral joy; like the best audiobook narrators, her delivery is endlessly malleable, shifting nimbly across accent, register and tone to create a sense that one is inside the story rather than peering in from the outside. I binged Apples Never Fall in a day and a half, and when I was done, I began to wonder who deserved the greater share of praise — the author or the narrator. It’s true that Moriarty’s books are difficult to put down, but would I have been as deeply hooked if they weren’t cooed by a voice that could make the Federal Register sound compelling? But if Lee’s narration really does so completely elevate Moriarty’s text, what about the people who had read the book rather than listened to Lee read it? Hadn’t they missed something crucial? When the market for audiobooks began to skyrocket in the past decade, people would sometimes wonder whether they counted — that is, when you listened to the book, could you say that you had read it? It was a mostly silly metaphysical debate (in the vein of ‘Have you really been to a city if you’ve only flown through its airport?’ Or ‘If you replace an axe’s handle and then you replace its blade, do you have the same axe?’), but the question illustrated a deep cultural bias. The audio version of a book was often considered a CliffsNotes-type shortcut. It was acceptable in a pinch; but as a matter of cultural value, audio ranked somewhere lower than the real, printed thing. I rise now to liberate the audiobook from the murky shadow of text. Audiobooks aren’t cheating. They aren’t a just-add-water shortcut to cheap intellectualism. For so many titles in this heyday of audio entertainment, it’s not crazy to ask the opposite: compared to the depth that can be conveyed via audio, does the flat text version count? Obviously, there are writers and subjects that translate poorly to audio; writers who excel at a kind of textual virtuosity, like David Foster Wallace, are better read than listened to. I have also had trouble listening to dense, especially technical, books, mainly because audiobooks are often consumed while multitasking. (For me, there are few greater pleasures than cooking while listening to a book.) Yet there are just as many books that achieve a resonance via the spoken word that their text alone cannot fully deliver. Listening to a book is not only just as good as reading it. Sometimes, perhaps even often, it’s better. For a certain kind of literary snob, them’s fighting words, I know. But consider one of the publishing industry’s most popular genres, the memoir. When they’re read by the author, I’ve noticed that audio versions of memoirs sparkle with an authenticity often missing in the text alone. In fact, it is the rare memoir that doesn’t work better as audio than as text. A fine recent example is Greenlights by the actor, Matthew McConaughey. As text, his story is discursive and, sometimes, indulgent; but as audio, in his strange and irresistible staccato speaking style, it exemplifies exactly the kind of weirdness that makes him so intriguing as an actor and celebrity. As I listened to Greenlights, I realized how much extratextual theatre was going on; there’s a way in which McConaughey, through his delivery, conveys emotion that is almost entirely absent from his text. Recently I have been telling everyone I know to listen to The Last Black Unicorn, the account of the rough childhood of the comedian, Tiffany Haddish, in the foster system and the many hardships she endured on the way to making it big in show business. Her narrative is compelling enough but she is one of the best stand-up comedians working today, so it’s hardly a surprise that the tragedy and the hilarity of her story are punched up by her delivery in the audiobook. There is a riotous extended section in the memoir about her elaborate revenge plot on a boyfriend who’d cheated on her; I pity anyone who only read Haddish’s text, because the way she explains the various parts of her plan had me laughing to tears. As spoken-word audio has taken off, the publishing industry and Amazon, whose Audible subsidiary is the audiobook business’s dominant force, have invested heavily in the medium. Now audiobooks often benefit from high-end production and big-name voice talent, and there are innovations in digital audio — like spatially rendered sound, which gives listeners a sense of being surrounded by audio — that may turn audiobooks into something like radio dramas. Still, as popular as audiobooks have become, I suspect there will remain some consternation about their rise, especially from book lovers who worry that audio is somehow eclipsing the ancient sanctity of text and print. But that is a myopic view. Telling stories, after all, is an even older form of human entertainment than reading and writing stories. Banish any guilt you might harbour about listening instead of reading. Audiobooks are not to be feared; they do not portend the death of literature on the altar of modern convenience. Their popularity is a sign, rather, of the endurance of stories and of storytelling. New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-22
