11-10-2021||Opinion||Edtorial: Justice delayed||Time is of the essence, especially for those waiting for justice. The urgency of the adage becomes all the more evident when the highest court of the land has to remind a subordinate court of this. In view of the long pendency of criminal cases in the Allahabad High Court, the Supreme Court of India recently ordered the registration of a suo motu case to consider laying down guidelines to resolve the accumulating crisis. In fact, in this rare instance of the apex court censuring a high court, the former was scathing in its criticism and a strict deadline has been issued for the registration of the proceedings. The Supreme Court’s censure is not without reason. Data reveal that considering the fastest rate of case disposal at the Allahabad High Court, the average waiting period to get justice in criminal appeal against conviction by trial courts is around 35 years, since more than 1.83 lakh appeals are pending before it — this, assuming no new appeal, filed in the future, is entertained out of turn. Bail, the Supreme Court has reiterated time and again, should be the norm, not jail. But it is evident that not only elected governments but also crucial tiers of the judicial apparatus are not paying enough attention to this. Although the apex court has pulled up the Allahabad High Court in this instance, it must be stated that pendency is not unique to any one court in particular. It is an all-pervasive phenomenon. Around 70 per cent of prison inmates in India are undertrials. The worst sufferers, as always, are the marginalized communities — Dalits, religious minorities and adivasis. Their plight is often compounded by inadequate access to legal counsel. The apex court has, therefore, rightly advised the Allahabad High Court to put in place a mechanism such that if an accused approaches the high court for bail, the application, at the very least, gets listed. But the causes of delay need not lie at the door of the judiciary alone. The Centre has been notorious for sitting on collegiums’ recommendations for the appointment of judges, the net result of which is the clogging of the courts with an unprecedented number of cases. Pendency in Indian courts has reportedly touched the figure of 4.5 crore. The existing gaps must be addressed on a war-footing in order to ensure that the wheels of justice turn quickly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-21
11-10-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel's kisan andolan||Shocking parallel Sir — It is a travesty of the heroic kisan andolan helmed by Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel at Bardoli that around a century later, peasants are still having to fight for their rights in an allegedly free country (“The kisan’s Sardar”, Oct 9). The government should not have pushed through the hastily framed farm laws. Marginalized farmers should have been encouraged to form cooperatives that could have eventually had bargaining power in an open market. After all, it is the government’s job to ensure a level playing field for all stakeholders. Technological interventions have led to an explosion in the production of agricultural goods. Now, good political leadership, quality training and other basic amenities need to be provided to create a new class of rural micro-entrepreneurs. R. Narayanan,Navi Mumbai Sir — Ramachandra Guha’s article, “The kisan’s Sardar”(Oct 9), presents an interesting historical parallel to the present day. It is ironic that another Gujarati is at the helm of the country when the farmers are dying on the streets fighting for their rights. So grave is the situation that the Supreme Court had to take suo motu cognizance of the matter and chastise the government. K. Nehru Patnaik,Visakhapatnam Splendid taste Sir — Khichuri is a Bengali favourite, but it cannot be denied that it tastes different when it is cooked as bhog for the goddess during Durga Puja. Although there are many permutations and combinations, I have always preferred the vegetarian version with moong daal and gobindo bhog rice with some cauliflower and green peas added. This should be served with labra — a mixed vegetable preparation. Some also prefer to eat fried hilsa with it. I once visited Tungnath in Uttarakhand and amidst 15 degrees Celsius was delighted to find an eatery serving steaming hot khichuri with papad and begun bhaja. I cannot put into words how delicious it was. Alok Ganguly,Kalyani Sir — Using garlic and onions is strictly prohibited in Puja dishes, even for fish or mutton curries. The mutton curry is thus called niramish-mangsho and cooked with cumin powder and ginger paste. Yet, nothing can beat the taste of bhoger mangsho-khichuri. Ritabrata Sen,Calcutta  Blank canvas Sir — A Danish artist, Jens Haaning, was given 534,000 kroner to recreate old artworks using the banknotes. Instead, he created blank canvases titled Take the Money and Run. The museum is now demanding the money back. Yet, all-white or “white-on-white” paintings often sell for millions and are indeed considered art. Why, then, should Haaning have to return the money? There is much to be said about passing off a blank canvas as art, but as long as people continue to buy this idea, Haaning is indeed an artist. Amar Sahu,Siliguri Parting shot Sir — The editorial, “Meet the real 007” (Oct 9), rekindled pleasant memories. It says that James Bond has always been brash, ostentatious, promiscuous and had a larger-than-life image. The latest Bond film is stated to have changed this. However, I found Sean Connery to be the smartest Bond and Roger Moore the most handsome one. At the end of the day, all I can say is long live Bond! Ashok Kumar Ghosh,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-21
11-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Blood returns||Is the spectre of militancy returning to haunt Kashmir Valley, once again? The recent spurt in killings of civilians has raised this chilling prospect. As many as seven civilians have fallen victim to terror attacks in the last few days; the figure has touched 28 this year. Among them are a pharmacist — he was a Kashmiri Pandit — educators as well as a food vendor. The targeted killings seem to be suggestive of a shift in the strategy of militants, with identity being the preferred motive of the bloodshed. What is pertinent is that those martyred belonged predominantly to such minority communities as Sikhs and Hindus. This is a calculated strike on the part of the nation’s adversaries at the very heart of pluralism and accommodation. The strain on kashmiriyat — an indigenous tradition of harmony and syncretism — is all the more unfortunate given the growing alienation between the Valley and the nation. The blame for that cannot be laid on non-State actors alone. The rhetoric of integration — the former state of Jammu and Kashmir was bifurcated by the Bharatiya Janata Party-led Central government in the name of assimilation — and normalcy disseminated by the powers that be has been dismantled by the violence. While it is true that heavy military presence in the wake of the abrogation of Article 370 prevented major terror attacks, the unilateral nature of the abrogation of Article 370 as well as the sustained anti-Muslim narrative of recent times have soured the public mood in the Valley. There is a possibility that militants are keen on exploiting this disenchantment by targeting minorities in the Valley in the hope of unleashing retributive retaliation against Muslims in other parts of the country. The resultant vicious cycle can threaten inclusiveness in Kashmir and India. This must be resisted with a robust political response. The security apparatus, too, must be nimble in the face of the changing nature of the challenges. Many of these attacks, it is believed, have been carried out by faceless cadre, making it difficult to identify the perpetrators. There has also been an influx of firearms, say defence sources. While these issues need to be dealt with firmly, care should be taken that the response — whether administrative or military — is not disproportionate to the scale of the threat. The way to win the battle against militancy is through the heart of the people of Kashmir. Unfortunately, the Narendra Modi government’s ‘overtures’ have done nothing to alleviate the festering, subterranean, collective resentment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-21
11-10-2021||Opinion||Listen to those on the margins||Indian farmers, with an average farm-size holding of about 1.08 hectares, are vying for a regular revenue stream and a decent standard of living. They, especially the small farmer, remain under the watchful eyes of local traders, informal money lenders and those with larger farm holdings. Sceptics — experts — and critics are already talking about the need for an alternative to the Green Revolution as evidence suggests that its benefits have bypassed small farmers. Indian agriculture is definitely unfit for farm laws that seek to offer quick solutions. Farmers from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh are flocking to the borders of the National Capital Region, while the bulk of cultivators from other states are conspicuous by their absence. We are being given to understand that these three states are affected the most. However, there is more to it than meets the eye. Data from the agriculture sector have not been encouraging. There has been a steady decline in the community often labelled as the ‘main cultivator’. Concurrently, there has been a rise in agricultural labour, particularly in states like UP, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and West Bengal. What this means is that land-owning rights are depleting in the farming community. The average size of operational holdings, the Agriculture Census (2015-16) says, declined to 1.08 ha compared to 1.15 ha in 2010-11. Punjab and Haryana are relatively better placed but these states represent only 25 per cent of the total farming community of approximately 147 million. The plight of small farmers remains unrepresented; a case in point being the new farm laws. Problems of the past — access to credit, technology, quality agricultural inputs and, most of all, markets to sell produce — persist. A study by these authors in Farrukhabad and Kannauj — UP’s potato belt — revealed that farmers produce the entire season’s potato during September and October. Half of the produce is shipped to markets via the local mandi while the remaining half is stored for supply during the rest of the season. This is stored in cold storages that belong to transporters or affluent families. The problem starts once this half is ready for shipping to the market during spring and summer. The prices are often disparate to the ones during winter and the cost of production offsets the selling price. The hapless farmers have no option but to sell off their produce to cold-storage owners who are more than happy to oblige them. They then sell the entire produce at more than double or triple the price at the Azadpur mandi in the NCR. The farm laws fail to address the core and the tertiary problems faced by the small farmers pertaining to market access, infrastructure, access to technology, the vagaries of small farm holdings, the decline of the farming community and the corresponding rise in agriculture labour. Issues such as the unwillingness of future generations to take up farming, climate change and limited employment options beyond agriculture are causes of concern. ‘Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan’ remains a muted slogan amidst all the din over the new farm laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-21
11-10-2021||Opinion||Look and act East||Since the Taliban takeover in Afghanistan, the world’s attention, and that of India, have been focussed on that country. Global leaders are busy discussing Afghanistan. The nation was the top agenda at the recent deliberations in the United Nations General Assembly. The biggest casualty of this global attention on Afghanistan has been Myanmar and its democracy movement whose leaders fear that the world is forgetting their struggle to restore democracy. Afghanistan and Myanmar hold substantial geopolitical and geo-economic significance for India. The Taliban are seeking Chinese support to legitimize their forced takeover; the military junta in Myanmar also depends on Chinese support to not only defend its coup but also its atrocities on the Muslim Rohingyas in Rakhine. If India fears Chinese penetration into Afghanistan with Pakistan’s assistance can undermine New Delhi’s strategic and diplomatic interests, it should also worry about the all-pervading Chinese influence on Myanmar. Just as Afghanistan holds the key to India’s outreach to Central Asia, Myanmar holds the key to the success of India’s ‘Act East’ policy. If the Taliban’s triumph can heighten separatist violence in Kashmir, an unstable Myanmar, with the breakdown of ceasefires between the government and the ethnic rebel armies, can spike armed separatism in India’s Northeast. India has invested millions in development projects in both Afghanistan and Myanmar. The Chabahar port in Iran is being developed by India to reach Central Asia through Afghanistan bypassing Pakistan. Sittwe port in Myanmar’s Rakhine coast is not only part of the ambitious Kaladan Multi-Modal Transit Transport Project to connect to Mizoram and the rest of Northeast but also integral to an initiative to connect to Japan’s Dawei special economic zone as an alternative to the China-Myanmar Economic Corridor. If India’s interests in these two nations are so similar, why is the level of engagement so different? Maybe India is following the global cues. The UN General Assembly and the Security Council would continue to discuss Afghanistan, denouncing Taliban’s ‘victory’ in violation of the 2020 Doha accord. So why can’t the coup in Myanmar be accorded similar importance? Is the restoration of democracy in Myanmar less important than an inclusive government in Afghanistan? Daw Zin Mar Aung, a close associate of Aung San Suu Kyi and the foreign minister of the National Unity Government of Myanmar that claims to be the legitimate elected government, made several key points during an interaction with this author over Zoom. She said that the NUG expects a strong, proactive Indian role in promoting the cause of democracy in Myanmar. The role, she said, should befit India’s stature as the world’s most populous democracy and as a major Asian power now helming the UN Security Council. Indian policy on Myanmar, she added, is too defensive. India has backed the Asean initiative to find a solution but the NUG feels that India should take the initiative. Perhaps the NUG is worried that a number of Asean countries have a history of military rule and may not push the Burmese military too hard. The Western powers are backing the cause for democracy but they are too distant to make an impact. So it is India, the NUG feels, that should play a bigger role in democracy’s restoration in Myanmar, especially since peace and stability in Myanmar are crucial for India’s Act East policy. Daw Aung said that the NUG will welcome an Indian outreach involving consultation with major Burmese stakeholders that could establish an acceptable time frame for Myanmar’s return to democracy. India’s fears of driving Myanmar’s military junta into China’s embrace are unfounded because the nation is already a Chinese surrogate. The expectations of cooperation for counter-insurgency operations against northeastern rebels have been belied by reports that the Tatmadaw is using these rebels against Burmese resistance groups. India can ignore Myanmar and an engagement with its democracy movement at its own peril. Subir Bhaumik is a former BBC correspondent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-21
11-10-2021||Opinion||Hybrid model||The Adi Shankara and Plato had a deep mistrust of change. While Plato called for arresting change, in Vedanta philosophy, change is relegated to Maya; it is also Brahman, with its quality of permanence, which is the ultimate reality. In contrast, change and progress are essential characteristics of modernity. However, there is a large gap between the pace of change in the West as compared to that in India. Over the years, there has been significant progress in India in terms of reducing poverty, expanding the health sector, spreading literacy, building infrastructure, creating affordability, and providing opportunities for and access to a better lifestyle. However, the rate of progress still remains far slower than it is in the West. This is frustrating for the promoters of progress — particularly the modern State — that would like to see India change as rapidly as some of the developed countries. While corruption and a lack of seriousness and professionalism are some of the obvious reasons for the variance in the pace of growth, we also need to explore the other underlying reasons. Unlike the modern West, a large part of India, especially the villages, still remains within the premodern domain. Cities — the metropolises — are India’s symbols of modernity, providing a higher quality of education, health and lifestyle. However, even these cities do not meet the criteria of a modern city in the West. They are more like “ancient cities”, that, according to Descartes, the father of modern philosophy, often grow “gradually” from “mere villages into large towns”. They are characterized by “ill-proportioned” buildings arranged in a haphazard manner — “a tall one here, a small one there”, making “the streets crooked and irregular”. In contrast, according to him, modern cities are “orderly towns which planners lay out” and “built with the will of men using reason”. Thus, most cities in India, except perhaps Chandigarh, cannot be considered modern when compared to modern cities in the West. In addition, Indian society consists of villages and communities, and follows customary morality, faiths and beliefs, and traditional habits. In contrast to this, individualism, instrumental rationality, and causality are the foundations of modernity in the West. Western society first followed the path of the premodern and then moved on to the modern in a sequential manner, with a clear disjuncture between the two, as noted by Descartes. The Social Contract philosophers’ idea of “state-of-nature” reiterates this. However, in India, the premodern is in conjunction with the modern. In his essay, “City and Village”, Rabindranath Tagore recognizes the coexistence of modern cities alongside premodern villages in India: “people have their home in the village and their offices in the city.” Thus, unlike the homogeneity between the premise and the conclusion in the West, it is heterogeneity that characterizes India. This is the reason for the difference in the pace of modernity between India and the West. It is important that we accept this dissimilarity and refrain from making direct comparisons with the West. India may want to emulate the West but it will always be different. Is there, however, a choice beyond either trying to seriously understand the situation in India or, upon finding it too big a liability, abandoning the pursuit of modernity altogether? Perhaps we may consider a third option: to reduce the liability and begin modernizing India. This would call for serious deliberation and the will to take on a colossal responsibility. The premodern has a dominant representation in India and needs to be studied extensively. This huge task is made doubly difficult by the lack of any reliable data. The West no longer has to face this issue in its own societies although it did deal with such issues in the past in its erstwhile colonies in Asia and Africa. However, the data that it generated through studies on India at the time are either outdated or insufficient. We need to identify important areas to study and devise methods to generate data on India, especially in agriculture and education. It will be futile to attempt modernizing Indian society without sufficient data on the premodern. It would be a tremendous resource for modern projects in India if educational institutions could focus on generating comprehensive data on various aspects of India. For instance, studying existing roads before laying highways will not only create better linear connectivity but also integrate already operational roads with the new construction for a more efficient, holistic roadway system. Similarly, a careful study of the current state of the primary education and healthcare systems before implementing any improvements will help integrate new reforms with the existing facilities for a more modern system. The premodern on the horizontal axis, therefore, needs to be connected to the modern projects on the vertical axis. This direction will also give us a clear sense of the country’s priorities like eradicating poverty, improving primary health and education, and developing the agriculture sector. These priorities are either inverted or are disproportionate in the developmental models followed in India today and the Indian State needs to urgently embark on a course correction. For instance, often, it is only after a modern project is initiated or built that people start finding out about it and finally begin to access it. This drastically lowers the pace and negatively affects the success of these projects. The people of India have energy, perseverance, and a remarkable ability to adapt to changing situations. Their strengths and skills need to be assessed and factored in while planning future growth. This may initially seem cumbersome and time-consuming. However, blindly borrowing modern models from the West without tailoring them for the Indian situation will only result in modernity at a superficial, elitist level akin to drawing conclusions from outside premises. But customizing modernity to suit the specific needs of Indian life can turn liabilities into assets and form a new unique model. This will ensure that we continue on the path of modern progress and, at the same time, avoid its pitfalls. A. Raghuramaraju teaches philosophy at the Indian Institute of Technology Tirupati||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-21
