12-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Many colours||Durga Puja — it begins today — is a wonderful amalgamation of the divine and the secular. The religious fervour is notable. Even during an era of sweeping social and cultural transformations, around this time of year, Bengalis — in Calcutta, all over the country and the world — try their best to adhere to certain traditions that have been passed down the ages. Tarpan, anjali and that other Bengali favourite — bhog — are manifestations of a continuum that is both illuminating and educative. Yet, it would not be correct to view Bengal’s biggest festival as a purely orthodox religious occasion. For instance, it has distinct material benefits. A first-of-its-kind study commissioned by the Bengal government has come up with some significant findings: the annual festivity contributes 2.58 per cent to Bengal’s gross domestic product. Allied activities also generate supplementary seasonal employment while the economic worth of art and decoration is worth Rs 860 crore. What is also significant is that Durga Puja serves as a mirror of the times. Like every other year, the ‘theme’ of many community Pujas will be echoing contemporary concerns this year too. For instance, the ‘anxiety of the refugees’, underscoring New India’s sudden willingness to view citizenship from a religious perspective, is being explored — aesthetically — by one particular club. The farmers’ protest features in another Puja in the northern part of the city. More importantly, there are numerous examples of the festival functioning as a crucial bridge to plug the chasms that are being opened up in ties between communities. In an inspiring example at a time of intense communal strife in the country, Muslims and Hindus are known to join hands to organize festivities, reinforcing Durga Puja’s truly representative nature. This strange but important assimilation of seemingly contradictory forces — secular and faith, private and political — makes Bengal’s festival absolutely unique.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-20
12-10-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor:  India on brink of huge power crisis||Crisis ahead Sir — India is on the brink of a huge power crisis. More than half the country’s plants are on alert for outages after surging electricity demand and a slump in local coal output led to the erosion of stockpiles. Although coal-powered plants are required to maintain 15 to 30 days of stocks, over half of the country’s 135 coal-fired power plants, which supply around 70 per cent of the nation’s electricity, have fuel stocks of less than two days, as per data from the grid operator. The situation is alarming and the Central government must solve this problem on a war-footing. A shortage of power will be calamitous and bring several industries to a standstill. Manisha Panwar,Ujjain Sir — An energy crisis is looming in many states as a result of excessive rainfall hitting coal movement and imported coal-based power plants generating less than half of their capacity because of record high rates. As such states are expected to feel an acute shortage in the upcoming days. India is heading towards a massive disaster and its repercussions will be felt for months to come. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Sir — India is on the brink of an energy crisis. Coal is now being diverted away from key buyers such as steel mills and aluminium smelters. The nation needs to ramp up production and, if the coal crunch prevails, import it at a significant cost. Either way, the impact on the economy will be significant. Seetharam Basaani,Hanamkonda, Telangana Due recognition Sir — At a time when journalists in India are languishing in jail, it was heartening to see the Nobel committee award the Peace Prize to two journalists, Maria Ressa and Dmitry Muratov, for their commitment to safeguarding the freedom of speech and expression. This recognition comes at a crucial juncture in history when the freedom of press is being curtailed. But the question is whether this will change the ground reality. Journalists are jailed or killed for raising their voice against injustice. The government must not penalize journalists for speaking the truth. Bidyut Kumar Chatterjee, Faridabad Sir — The Nobel committee has given due recognition to the role of journalism by awarding Maria Ressa and Dmitry Muratov the Nobel Peace Prize for their efforts to “safeguard freedom of expression, which is a precondition for democracy and lasting peace”. This will boost the morale of all working journalists. Our heartfelt congratulations to Ressa and Muratov. Md. Yousuf Kamal,Muzaffarpur, Bihar  Festive fever Sir — In Joy Baba Felunath — the adventure is set during the Durga Puja — Feluda had asked the artisan making the idol whether it would be finished by Shashti. One can no longer imagine an unfinished idol till Shashti — inauguration of pandals starts on Mahalaya, so does pandal-hopping. There was a time when Saptami marked the beginning of festivities. This would have been a good thing if this meant that the crowds thinned out a little. But the number of people on the streets have gone up too. Evidently, baro mashe tero parbon is no longer enough for Bengalis. Ananya Chakraborty,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-20
12-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Welcome back||The Maharaja — the tubby, puckish and, sometimes, leery mascot of Air India — is not the only battered, anachronistic image that the Tatas will have to buff when they take over the troubled State-owned airline. The impish caricature that was created in 1946 by the former commercial director, Bobby Kooka, embodying the ambitions of the airline that wished to be counted among the best in the world, may seem a little out of touch with today’s grim realities in the world of aviation. The bigger worry is that Air India is hobbled by debt and grappling with the problem of restive, unpaid employees who have already started to fret about their future under the new owners. The Tatas will have to stump up Rs 27 billion in cash for the airline and assume Rs 153 billion in debt when they seal the deal with the Narendra Modi government by the end of December. Air India will taxi in with another airline in tow: the low-cost Air India Express that operates flights to 13 overseas destinations, mostly in the Gulf, and 16 cities in India. The State-owned airline has 153 planes, 12,085 employees, and a consolidated loss that was quantified at Rs 85.56 billion at the end of 2018-19. The Tata Group already has interests in two other airlines: AirAsia India, where it has an 84 per cent stake with a call option to buy up the rest, and Vistara, in which it has 51 per cent interest. Singapore Airlines owns the remaining 49 per cent. The three airlines have a combined market share of 25.7 per cent against IndiGo’s 56 per cent. At some point, the Tatas will look to merge them into one gigantic airline after they have taken all the gremlins out of the Air India balance sheet. The immediate tasks for the Tatas will be to find a new set of executives who can draw up a plan to restructure the airline, pare the debt burden, and raise cash to keep it afloat. Bombay House will then need to wield a hatchet to slash ballooning costs and overhaul a sloth-ridden work culture. This will be harder to achieve as it has guaranteed to keep all employees on the rolls for at least a year. It has the option of offering a voluntary retirement scheme to reduce the bloated workforce. The aviation industry has been mired in losses since the outbreak of the pandemic. As demand seeps back, rivals will be looking to grab customers. The Indian aviation industry has placed orders for over 500 planes that will come in over the next four years, exacerbating pressure on yields and profit margins. There is one saving grace: if anyone can overcome these formidable challenges, it has got to be the Tatas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-20
12-10-2021||Opinion||Honour the dead||India ranks 78 among all countries when it comes to the deceased organ donation rate. India’s 10-year average (2009-2019) is 0.42 per million compared to 40 in Spain, 33.7 in Croatia, 30.23 in Portugal and around 28.5 in Belgium and the United States of America, respectively. At the same time, 500,000 Indians die annually because of the non-availability of organs. Between 2014-2019, there were approximately 0.5 donors per million per year: that is a little over 800 deceased donations took place annually. According to the World Health Organization, around 0.01 per cent of Indians donate their organs after death. What explains these abysmally low numbers? Organ donation is a complex process involving five key players: the donor, the agency that registered the donor, the hospital where the donor expires, the recipient hospital, and the donor’s family members. It appears that there is a disproportionate focus on the first four at the expense of perhaps the most crucial decision-maker — family and next-of-kin of the donor. Their consent and active participation, under the current set-up, make donations possible. Let me elaborate this with a personal experience. My father had pledged his organs upon his death and informed his decision to his family and friends. However, no one remembered his pledge when he died. By the time we remembered, crucial hours had been lost in organizing the cumbersome logistics of contacting other hospitals and transporting him for organ-donation. As a result, the organs could not be transplanted. We could only donate his body for research and medical purpose to another hospital. Although the exact number of individuals who have pledged their bodies upon death is difficult to come by, one organization estimates that between 1985-2020, more than a million individuals registered for organ donation but only 4,000 successful donations took place. A large part of failed donations occur owing to poor infrastructure in hospitals or the reluctance of family members. A significant number of pledged cadavers are not donated because of a simple flaw in the system — lack of information flow. Several steps can be suggested to simplify the process for the family and the next-of-kin of the deceased to give their consent. The donor should be able to share information with a central database, say the UIDAI, or with an agency. The database must be updated so that as soon as a patient is admitted to hospital, the information is already available with the latter. The information is important in the event of an unaccompanied patient being admitted to hospital. The death of a patient can be an overwhelming experience, preventing family members from remembering the pledge of organ donation. A simple reminder by the hospital for consent will suffice. As part of the protocol, the doctor in charge of informing the family must seek their consent to proceed with organ transplantation and transport. Finally, the onus of transplantation and transport must not be put on the family members. A hospital help desk that coordinates between the agency that sought the initial donation and other hospitals that will be part of the organ transplantation link must be set up. While there are suggestions for India to adopt Spain’s ‘opt out’ model, this may not work given the prevailing religious and social sentiments that often prevent family members from donating a pledged body. However, making the process simpler for family members willing to donate the body of the deceased is the right step to honour the dead and help the living.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-20
12-10-2021||Opinion||An enduring system||Even as intra-party dissension simmers within the Congress in Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and elsewhere, the political dominance of the Bharatiya Janata Party reflects, at least electorally, the numerical preponderance of the Congress during the nascent years of independent India. In his paper for Asian Survey, the political scientist, Rajini Kothari, had termed this the “Congress System”, to denote, at once, a well-oiled party machinery, party-government interlinkage, and the facilitative factors behind the sustenance of the ‘system’. That seminal paper may now be consigned to the exclusive attention of those interested in the historical-political dynamics of the period, but there are certain parallels that can be drawn to make fuller sense of today’s politics and derive lessons by contextualizing the current occurrences within a broader historical frame. In a democratic structure marked by a competitive party system, leaders from the ruling party populate the executive, assuming ministerial positions as well as holding important posts in the party organization. This dual role has increasingly come to be an unquestioned trait of India’s parliamentary system. However, there have been exceptions. After the 2004 general elections, contrary to popular expectations, Sonia Gandhi, the president of the Congress, opted out of prime ministership. While Gandhi managed the party organization and the internal dynamics of the United Progressive Alliance, the prime minister, Manmohan Singh, headed the executive machinery. The seeds of this arrangement were laid during the ‘Congress System’. There has always been festering tension between party and government. Jawaharlal Nehru’s towering personality diluted this phenomenon at the national level but states witnessed frequent tussles between the chief minister and the Pradesh Congress Committee. Towards the end of Nehru’s rule, as the organization started to weaken, the ‘Kamaraj Plan’ was floated, directing senior ministers to step down and take up organizational roles. This attests to the fact that although congruence between government and ruling party is necessary to translate popular demands into policies, a distinction needs to be maintained between the two. The recent tussle in Punjab between Amarinder Singh and Navjot Singh Sidhu is a case in point. The Congress high command appointed the former cricketer amidst stiff opposition and handed an 18-point agenda to the state government. Ultimately, the ‘Captain’ was edged out, paving the way for the appointment of Charanjit Singh Channi as chief minister. Friction between the incumbent chief minister and the PCC chief remains an enduring phenomenon, notwithstanding the Congress’s depleted fortunes. Even the BJP has had to placate dissenting groups, with chief ministers being replaced in Karnataka, Uttarakhand and Gujarat. However, the BJP offers far lesser scope for chief ministers to nurture their own power base. The ‘Congress System’ was a political umbrella accommodating numerous shades of opinion, unified by the attachment to ideals like nationalism and secularism. What sustained the system was the party’s ability to embrace the views and interests of the opposition, akin to a “thermostat” as Kothari put it. This underlines the imperative of political parties to be receptive to diverse views and self-rectification. The Congress has a mixed record on this front, with prominent leaders like Sharad Pawar and Mamata Banerjee leaving the party and carving out separate political entities. But the induction of Hardik Patel into the Congress in Gujarat and his subsequent elevation to the post of working president of the state unit reveal an accommodative approach. One of the factors which underlines the uniqueness of the Congress System was its sustained electoral success. However, even that invincibility got dissolved — exemplified by such moments as Nehru’s demise, the first set-back during the 1967 elections and the split in the party itself thereafter. This shows that political dominance is not perennial. The present pan-India dominance of the BJP at the parliamentary level, with faltering success in state elections, indicates an interesting resonance with the Congress System. While the BJP has not had to grapple with succession crises at the national level, its internal decisions indicate a smooth mechanism of transition. When Amit Shah passed the mantle of national presidentship to J.P. Nadda, it signalled the party’s ability to bring about changes without substantial spill-over effects. Kothari’s essay evoked mixed responses. While scholars like Morris Jones saw it as further confirmation of the strength of India’s democratic credentials, Yogendra Yadav has offered a more modest appraisal — “anything between a quarter to a half of India was never covered by the Congress system”. Nevertheless, the academic and practical relevance of the Congress System as a unique mode of socio-political structural set-up endures, offering lessons for all parties competing in the electoral fray.  Ritabrata Chakraborty is a student in Hindu College, Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-20
12-10-2021||Opinion||Carnival’s here||Perhaps it is easier for smaller towns to dedicate themselves completely to a festival for a few days than it is for big cities. My first experience of this was in 1975: at the age of fifteen, I got to tag along with my parents when they were invited to the bi-annual theatre festival in Nancy in northeastern France. I had never been to France or anywhere else in the West before but I knew a tiny bit about Paris. After a couple of eye-popping days in the legendary city, where I happily struggled to collate the reality of the place with the many received images and stories, we were driven by car to Nancy. The difference of scale between capital and provincial town was immediately evident. Within minutes of hitting the outskirts, we were in the city centre. Everything here was taken over by the festival, with huge posters for plays and outdoor performances, large signage that pointed you to the delegate centre, the ticket counters and buffet for delegates. There were several venues for performances, all of them quite easy to reach, either on foot or by a short bus ride. The cafes and restaurants all seemed to have something to do with performances and recitals, either officially part of the festival or maverick ones. There were numerous exhibitions of theatre posters and photographs. Alongside these were visible markers for the jazz festival, the other jamboree the city hosted every alternate year. With the theatre addicts, the buzz began at some point around noon — once everyone was awake — and continued into the early hours of the morning with people alternating among shows, talks and copious beverage breaks. Memories of specific performances aside, what stayed with me was the sense of an entire town completely focused on the serious, yet joyous, celebration of theatre. Since then, I’ve been lucky enough to experience other towns as they immerse themselves completely in cultural festivals. There is Edinburgh that gives over every August to its famed, multi-layered celebration of theatre, literature and all kinds of other things; Adelaide, which alternates every year between a huge literature festival and a festival of ideas; there is Basel where, in the middle of winter, the whole town stops what it’s doing for three days and dives into the traditional Fasnacht and where in summer you have the internationally renowned Art Week; in the visual arts, there are obviously Venice with its Biennale and Kassel in western Germany, with the massive Documenta show every four years. In India, I am yet to visit the Kochi Biennale, but I have been to the Serendipity Arts Festival in Goa and the eponymous literature festival in Jaipur, both of which transform areas of the respective cities, Panjim and Jaipur, without necessarily involving a wide section of local people. As the Durga Puja comes around at the (still-not-quite) end of two years of epidemic, thoughts arise of an entire city being somehow released from the quotidian, of a genuine cross-section of the populace coming out into the streets to celebrate something together, of a period of days when Kolkataiyas and visitors alike can perhaps dare to breathe a bit differently, a little bit more freely. For many of us Calcuttans, over the last few years, the Pujas have become a time of stress. It’s a good time to leave the city, or, failing that, a good time to hole up at home and avoid going out into the crazed traffic and unbearable din. Now what if this were to be completely reversed? What if, somehow, this period, say the fortnight around the Durga Puja (which is, of course, also a cultural festival), became a time to organize and participate in a wider festival, with varying themes but with the Puja at the centre of it? What if normal activity in the city came to a complete halt for a few days and was replaced instead by a time of both slowness and whirling celebration? What if the city was to take a breather for two weeks? Calcutta is a massive urban agglomeration, the extreme opposite of a small town. And, yet, Calcutta has always shown itself capable of going against the grain. If certain calculations are to be believed, while other cities are growing, we are actually losing population. As other Indian mega-metros are increasing the industrialization in their immediate greater urban areas, we might actually be reducing ours. If Bombay or Bangalore were to shut down their offices for a couple of weeks, the losses would probably run into thousands of crore, whereas shutting down Calcutta for a few days may make no major difference to the corporate world. As the pandemic showed, not having cars clogging the roads radically improved the air quality of the city. In fact, if there were to be a properly conceived and organized festival or even several small concurrent festivals, it might well draw visitors and revenue to the city. The big challenge (and this is where we would really need to go against the grain and venture where no major city has perhaps gone before) is to make sure it’s a festival for all classes of Calcuttans and not just the so-called middle and upper classes. This would entail seriously innovative thinking, from how to counter the loss of earnings for those who depend on daily work to making sure that the most marginalized sections are involved with the festival. Corporate and marketing involvement would be necessary but equally crucial would be keeping those in check; central to the conception would be protecting the anarchic and the unexpected, while organizing just enough to create a festival unique in the world.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-21
