13-10-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Tatas take over Air India||Take flight Sir — The takeover of the habitually loss-making airline, Air India, by the Tatas is one of their boldest steps, especially considering the overall gloom pervading the aviation sector (“Welcome back”, Oct 12). There are many challenges to restoring Air India’s past glory — an image makeover, bringing about a change in the mindset of employees, lowering the operating costs. Now the Tatas have four aviation brands: two low-cost carriers — Air India Express and AirAsia India — and two full-service airlines — Air India and Vistara. Not all of these have an impressive record. But Air India does have trained pilots and crew, prized slots at airports both at home and abroad as well as a fleet of over 130 planes. The Tatas could use these assets to consolidate their position in the aviation sector. The fact that all employees must be retained for at least a year might make the training of staff difficult. But given the Tatas’ experience in running big organizations, this is not impossible. This deal may open up the floodgates of disinvestment or majority or even complete takeover by private players of loss-making government undertakings. It might, thus, help reduce the burgeoning debt burden of the country. Chanchal Nandy,West Burdwan Sir — The history of Air India came full circle with the Tata group emerging as the winning bidder for India’s premier carrier. This is an occasion for the employees, patrons as well as the public to rejoice. J.R.D. Tata, the first licensed pilot of India and pioneer of the Indian aviation industry, had launched Tata Airlines in 1932. Later listed as Air India, it was nationalized in 1953. In the wake of its merger with Indian Airlines, things started going downhill for the national carrier, with losses mounting each year. Eventually, the government decided in favour of a disinvestment. Now that the Tatas have got it back, they will hopefully bring back the glory days for Air India with their experience in the industry. A new horizon of hope is expected to open up before the 12,000 Air India employees whose future, until now, hung in the balance. Tapash Chatterjee,New Barrackpore Sir — It was heartening that the Tata group emerged as the highest bidder for Air India. On account of the faulty policies of the government, the airline caved in to competition from private airlines. Further, the aviation industry globally faced significant losses — $314 billion — owing to the pandemic. As such, the Tatas have set a positive example by acquiring the airline with a debt of Rs 61,562 crore. This is praiseworthy. Jayanta Datta,Hooghly At long last Sir — The development of the long-awaited and much-needed anti-malaria vaccine is a major breakthrough in medical science. The RTS,S/AS01, developed by the British pharmaceutical company, GlaxoSmithKline, is sold as Mosquirox. Approved by the World Health Organization and recommended for widespread use among children, it holds out the hope of saving millions of lives. Although the vaccine has shown limited efficacy until now — it prevents 39 per cent of malaria cases and 29 per cent of severe malaria cases — it can prove to be beneficial. One study found that when children were given both RTS, S and anti-malarial drugs, there was a 70 per cent reduction in hospitalization and death. Malaria has been a scourge for millennia; claiming innumerable lives, especially in sub-Saharan Africa. It poses a serious threat to India as well. It will take a lot of political will and funding to roll out the vaccine from the lab to the field. The global vaccine alliance, Gavi, should step in. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — Good news has finally arrived with the WHO approving the RTS, S malaria vaccine. Its development has taken over 40 years. Malaria claims around four lakh lives every year. The situation is worst in sub-Saharan Africa; the new vaccine should be able to help the people there. Mankind’s struggle against diseases seems unending. By the time we are able to contain one disease, a new one emerges. If only more research on knowledge science were devoted to healthcare — some countries focus on creating bioweapons instead — our struggle with diseases would not have been so one-sided. Jang Bahadur Singh,Jamshedpur  Different game Sir — Following the findings of a survey across seven countries, the toy-manufacturing company, Lego, has promised to make its products “free of gender bias and harmful stereotypes” by shifting the focus to “passions and interests”. This is indeed a positive step. However, one cannot help but doubt the actual motivation behind this decision. The fact that children are affected by gender roles normalized through playthings is not new. In fact, other toy companies — Mattel and its gender-neutral and progressive Barbie models, for example — have already shown the way. Is this, then, merely a marketing tactic to increase sales by earning people’s trust? Adrita Bhowmick,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-20
13-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Short life||The recent worldwide outage experienced by customers of social media platforms like WhatsApp and Facebook revealed a surprising fact about the relative importance of these means of communication against more traditional ones such as short messaging service. Yet, during the six hours of outage, people did not fall back on SMS to communicate. It shows that public reliance on SMS has dropped drastically in the last few years — a trend that telecom companies are well aware of — because of a sharp drop in revenue. SMS, which accounted for 10 per cent of total revenue at its peak, has fallen to only 0.55 per cent of total revenue. SMS is now used only for receiving ‘one time passwords’ for making online transactions. Banks, particularly, are still quite dependent on SMS. One reason for this is that internet access is still not adequate in remote areas where they operate. But the other modes of messaging are far more popular. According to one estimate, out of more than two billion WhatsApp users, an estimated 400 million people in India are increasingly using WhatsApp as the primary mode of communication. Customer behaviour during the outage also points to the way technology engenders dependence. Social media technologies are far more enabling in creative communication with pictures, emojis, voice messages and group texting and calling. The SMS, thus, appears relatively archaic. There are many other considerations too for the strict preference. Data security that platforms like WhatsApp officially promise is an attractive feature. According to some experts in psychology and communications, emojis may become a new form of language, or at least an integral part of communications. Verbal, face-to-face communication allowed people to factor in tone of voice or body language. Even purely voice messages allowed the receiver to discern the intonations of the voice of the speaker. In purely written messages on the digital medium, the only way to communicate emotions and reactions with speed and efficiency may be the emojis and the emoticons. What happened during the outage is an interesting instance of how technology shapes mass culture. For addictive forms of communications, outages would become extremely costly for the companies that own the platforms. Data usage has multiplied dramatically during the past four or five years. It might be interesting to analyse and estimate — with the help of meta-data — how much of the communications is essential, how much is useless, and how much of it constitutes fake news.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-20
13-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Truth triumphs||Journalism’s obituary has been written quite a few times. For instance, in the modern world, the plummeting revenues of traditional journalistic platforms — the print media, for instance — intimidatory intervention, legal or otherwise, against digital news networks to stifle free speech and, equally important, the capitulation of the media fraternity before the powers that be — be it the government or big business — are being cited as the principal causes that would lead to journalism’s demise. Yet the vocation has turned out to be a rather stubborn species, proving the pundits wrong repeatedly. The conferring of this year’s Nobel Peace Prize on two courageous, proficient scribes — Maria Ressa of the Philippines and Russia’s Dmitry Muratov — shows that journalism can, indeed, be resurrected in spite of such formidable threats as State repression as well as the public vulnerability to — enchantment with? — false narratives. The path to renewal for individual journalists and news organizations, as Ms Ressa and Mr Muratov have shown, lies in the ability to refresh journalism’s commitment to the original charter of the fourth estate: to report the truth without fear or favour and uphold the primacy of free speech. This is, of course, not a road for the faint-hearted. Real journalistic work is considered to be a dangerous profession: in 2020, a report compiled by the director-general of Unesco had found that only 13 per cent of cases filed against newspersons around the world had been resolved — the figures were 12 and 11 per cent, respectively, for the previous two years. Incarceration, intimidation, threats of bodily violence and trolling — these are especially true for women journalists — and even death — India is witness to Gauri Lankesh’s murder — are some of the ‘occupational hazards’ in the journalistic tryst with truth. The pressures on journalism have, undoubtedly, been intensified by transformations in global politics and society. The rise of authoritarian regimes — democratic India is not an exception — and the carefully calibrated assault on the institutions mandated to honour truth — the latter is integral to the idea of justice — have endangered the vocation. The Philippines, Ms Ressa’s country, was ranked 138 among 180 countries that were evaluated by the World Press Freedom Index 2021. Her views on India — it ranks lower than the Philippines on the register — are particularly illuminating in this context. The Nobel Peace Prize should not be an occasion to indulge in smugness. It should be viewed by practising journalists and news organizations as a solemn reminder to be unrelenting in their pursuit to inform the public of the truth by defying monumental odds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-20
13-10-2021||Opinion||Play the federalism card||The impressive electoral performance of the regional parties in the assembly elections held in the first half of 2021 has had major ramifications on national politics. Emboldened by the results, which reaffirmed the view that the balance of power within the Opposition has been shifting towards their outfits, regional satraps have now taken the lead in floating a nationwide anti-BJP front to challenge the saffron party and its allies in 2024. In the last few months, several meetings have been held by prominent leaders in the Opposition to discuss ways in which it can challenge the Bharatiya Janata Party’s hegemony in electoral politics. The Congress was forced to convene a virtual meeting in August that was attended by 19 Opposition parties. While attempts by India’s Opposition to prop up a formidable front to take on the BJP and the prospects of such an initiative have been widely discussed, another interesting development that can potentially impact the health of India’s democracy in the long run has not received the same kind of attention. Ever since the BJP’s crushing defeat in Bengal and the victory of regional leaders — Mamata Banerjee, M.K. Stalin and Pinarayi Vijayan — in their respective states, the Opposition has been growing more vocal over the Narendra Modi government’s overarching ways, its scant regard for India’s federal structure as well as its tendencies to encroach upon the rights of state governments. Interestingly, supposedly ‘neutral’ chief ministers like Naveen Patnaik and Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy have also shown signs of supporting their counterparts in the Opposition advocating greater rights for the states. Barely a few weeks after coming to power, the M.K. Stalin government stirred the proverbial hornet’s nest by referring to the Modi government as “Ondriyam Arasu” (Union government) instead of “Mathiya Arasu” (Central government), thereby raising pertinent questions about the very nature of Indian federalism. The BJP accused the state government of being confrontationalist and harbouring ulterior motives. The raging debate — as to whether India is a Union of states or whether the states are merely administrative units with the Union empowered to override their authority — may resemble political shadow-boxing but there is much more to it. The debate on the nature of federalism and the advocacy for federalism and rights of the states has not been restricted to Tamil Nadu. It is also timely: for it comes in the aftermath of the pandemic laying bare the fragility of India’s federal set up. The Centre and the state governments bitterly crossed swords on nearly every issue that required them to work together in the spirit of cooperative federalism, including vaccine policy, the plight of migrant workers during the national lockdown, goods and services tax rates on essential commodities and life-saving drugs and so on. Over the years, successive Central governments have encroached upon the rights of the states. The Modi government, too, has been riding roughshod over states by adopting a centralized and unilateral approach to policy-making. In recent times, the Centre has bolstered this centralization spirit by unilaterally framing laws — the farm laws, the electricity (amendment) bill, the Major Port Authorities Act, 2021 — on subjects on the state and concurrent lists. Odisha, West Bengal, Kerala and Andhra Pradesh have been fiercely resisting such moves aimed at usurping the constitutionally guaranteed rights of states. Opposition leaders exhibiting a willingness to form an anti-BJP front and the renewed focus on federal politics and rights of states are crucial for the health of Indian democracy. In fact, these two developments are interlinked. If Opposition leaders commit themselves to the cause of federalism and greater authority for the states, it will strengthen the prospects of the proposed federal front that aims to confront the BJP. A political movement resisting the current dispensation’s high-handedness to ensure greater federalization can become the rallying point for Opposition forces by acting as a glue that can hold disparate elements of the alliance together. Such a move will also bolster the chances of the alliance by generating wider acceptance for it, especially among fence-sitters, by countering the long-standing criticism of such an initiative being nothing but an example of the ambition of the regional satraps. The success of the Opposition will depend on its ability to make 2024 a ‘Modi versus what’ instead of a ‘Modi versus who’ battle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-20
13-10-2021||Opinion||Silence is grey||On the face of it, asking a question appears to be a simple act of responding to things with curiosity. Except for what linguists call ‘phatic communication’, such as ‘how are you?’ Or ‘is everything okay?’ Questions arise in one’s mind out of the quest to know. They also arise out of concern for matters that one thinks are important. At a higher pitch, they are born out of philosophical anxiety, as in Hamlet’s ‘To be or not to be’ or the upanishidic ‘Ko aham? — Who am I?’ There are times when questions arise out of a collective desire to be assured that all is well with the State. When such questions are asked in Parliament, the technical term used to describe them is ‘interpellation’. When asked outside Parliament and the assemblies by people who are imagined to be silent observers, they reflect the popular perception of government functioning. I list only a few of the questions that people have asked but have remained unanswered. When the coronavirus pandemic broke out, the prime minister made an appeal to contribute funds to a new trust called ‘PM-Cares’ created for relief. Citizens wanted to know if PM-Cares was a government entity or a private entity. It continues to remain surrounded by studied ambivalence. During the NDA-I government, a committee was appointed to review the history of India for the last 12,000 years, a time span matching the beginning of the Holocene. Why was no representation given in that committee of experts to anyone from the Northeast tribal communities or from the southern Dravidian communities or to women? There was no answer. In view of the India-China border clashes, one would have expected to know if the People’s Liberation Army had crossed into Indian land and how deep. That information is not available with any clarity. When the international media started talking about snooping by the spyware, Pegasus, citizens wanted to know if the government had authorized the Israel-based firm to mount surveillance on private individuals. The answer is not known to citizens yet. Media reports say that the Sabarmati Ashram is to be renovated and made into a world-class tourist destination. On discussing with the trustees of the ashram, this writer was told that they do not have a clear idea of what is involved in the plans. Again a question without a clear answer. In the gruesome killings at Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh, did the police think of it as a case of murder to be treated under the Indian Penal Code? Why were the suspected killers not arrested immediately? Why were political leaders detained without disclosing the reasons for their detention? These questions were in the minds of not just the citizens of India but even of the highest court of the country. Yet, no clear answers could be elicited. Recently, two instances of drug-trafficking and consumption shot into news, one involving a few grammes of a narcotic and the other nearly three thousand kilogrammes. Why the incident in Bombay received so much attention as opposed to the one in Mundra port is a question that is not likely to be answered. In normal times, the government is expected to answer these questions inside Parliament as well as outside. However, if Parliament is transformed into a space where the term, ‘interpellation’, is no longer respected as part of its constitutional duty, it cannot be expected to satisfy citizens’ quest to know the answers. The last session of Parliament had practically ruled out the ‘question hour’ and Opposition benches had to literally struggle to get at least half an hour every day for questions. If elections — they cost so much to the country and to the taxpayers and take so much of the media’s time and the nation’s attention — do not ultimately result in a means of generating well-informed debates and providing answers, the form of the government that we have today calls for a name other than democracy. In democratic countries, the media are expected to flag issues of interest, seek answers, and form perspectives around them and orient people’s response to the functioning of public representatives. Barring several courageous individuals and a few honourable media organizations, the electronic and print media in India have clearly moved far away from this age-old media dharma. The symptoms of the abdication of their duty are too well-known for me to list them here. The causes of this condition that require our attention. Independent media require financial independence for media houses. The costs involved are so high that it is no longer possible in our time to even dream, let alone think, of a financially self-sufficient media. Gone are the times when the print media was ruled by the editorial and opinion desks. For more than half a century now, they are being run by media companies or business houses. At this juncture of a fierce war between social media platforms and the print industry, to keep a print media venture afloat is close to a financial miracle. If, on top of the acute financial uncertainty made worse by the worldwide pandemic, there is the fear of intimidation of media workers and the trolling of opinion writers, it is not surprising that the media like to fend for their own safety. Electronic media ventures are costlier and, for the same reasons, tend to plunge more willingly for their own safety. Although one may not like the idea, the catch-phrase in financial markets is ‘the media and entertainment industry’, used to describe a rapidly growing combination of cinema, video games, entertainment, print and electronic media. There is the rather naive hope that if the constitutional democratic fora and the media no longer can play their traditionally defined roles, the social media — on the fingertips of citizens — will salvage democracies from the current aberrations. However, these generate chaotic noise rather than well-searched information. Surrounded by so much noise, we live in an era without conversation, a political arrangement that can probably be called the ‘No-question Regime’.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-20
