14-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Fading green||The Centre has read the message wrong, once again. Environmental activists have been urging the government to ‘go green’ by protecting India’s forests. But it seems more interested in protecting the ‘green’ in the wallet instead. Consider a recent instance. The Union environment ministry has proposed an amendment to the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980. This seeks to exempt certain categories of infrastructure project developers from requiring the Centre’s permission to use forest land for ‘non-forestry’ purposes. Although advertised as a green move, the proposal is riddled with contradictions. While the ministry claims that the intervention would incentivize afforestation on private lands, it concedes that it seeks to clear the path for land-holding agencies — the railways and the road and highway ministry included — to deforest lands acquired before 1980 as well as allow constructions for ‘bona fide’ purposes. What the government seems to ignore, however, is why the definition of ‘forest’ had been broadened in the first place. Has this been done to facilitate profiteering at the cost of India’s green cover? This is not idle speculation. India’s forests have been suffering for long: ‘very dense forests’, capable of absorbing copious amounts of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere, constitute only three per cent of the country’s geography. If the aim is indeed for India to meet its environmental goal of increasing forest and tree cover to 33 per cent, paying lip-service to the protection of ‘pristine’ forests — yet another objective of the amendment — would not be enough. The amendment would also allow non-invasive exploration or extraction of oil and natural gas. Given that illegal depredations threaten the forests in spite of protective laws in place, it is not difficult to imagine their fate without strict oversight. India’s forests, with all their local variation and ecosystems, cannot be managed using singular, Central legislation — involving local bodies in case-specific inspection would be more effective. In fact, decentralized forest management is not without precedence: the National Forest Policy, 1988 had encouraged local participation through the joint forest management institution, while the Forest Rights Act, 2006 empowered gram sabhas with rights to manage, conserve and protect forests. Moreover, development of forest land must take into account local communities whose livelihoods depend on it — community participation in India’s first jungle safari in Chandrapur in Maharashtra is an inspiring example. The community must be made the principal stakeholder in deliberations on forest land if India is to save what remains of its wilderness.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-19
14-10-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Ashis Mishra Teni arrested||Right direction Sir — It was a relief to learn that the prime accused in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, Ashis Mishra — he is the son of the Union minister, Ajay Mishra — has been arrested by the Uttar Pradesh police (“Cops get Ashis for 3 days”, Oct 12). The Supreme Court must be commended for coming down heavily on the state government for failing to arrest the accused. This must come as a warning to the Bharatiya Janata Party leaders that no one is above the law. Over the last year, the agitating farmers have proved that they are firm in their resolve to protest against the three farm laws passed by the Centre. Many have lost their lives but the farmers refuse to budge, and rightly so. The government cannot infinitely ignore the farmers’ demands. The BJP must find a way to resolve the crisis if it hopes to win the upcoming assembly elections. N. Sadhasiva Reddy,Bangalore Sir — There is no doubt that had the Supreme Court not directed the Uttar Pradesh government to file a status report regarding the investigation in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence within a day, Ashis Mishra would not have been arrested. But the mere arrest of the minister’s son will not suffice. The courts should be vigilant in monitoring the handling of evidence by the investigative agencies so that there is no scope for tampering. Arun Gupta,Calcutta Ignored plight Sir — Subir Bhaumik has rightly pointed out that the ongoing strife in Myanmar where the Tatmadaw has choked the democratic rights of the citizens will have a far-reaching impact for the rest of Asia (“Look and act East”, Oct 11). Since the coup on February 1, 2021, hundreds have either lost their lives, been injured or rendered homeless, triggering a massive humanitarian crisis. This has upended the lives of the ordinary people but the international community seems to have forgotten about their plight. Aung San Suu Kyi and the leaders of the National League for Democracy have been languishing in jail on trumped up charges for months. But New Delhi’s response towards Myanmar seems to be measured, exposing its unwillingness to upset either the NLD leaders or the army. India must take a strong stand against the Tatmadaw and commit itself fully to upholding democratic doctrines in the region. Janga Bahadur Sunuwar,Jalpaiguri Jungle beat Sir — Nitin Gadkari, the Union minister of road transport and highways, has mooted the idea of a law that would replace car horns with the sound of Indian musical instruments such as the flute, tabla, or harmonium (“Tone deaf”, Oct 10). The minister also suggested that the sound of the siren on an ambulance or an official vehicle could be replaced with a melodious composition similar to the one that served as the signature tune of All India Radio. The idea is certainly well-intended. Studies have shown that prolonged exposure to the noise caused by traffic can lead to hearing loss, increase in blood pressure and heart rate, greater risk of stroke and diabetes as well as a general spike in stress and anxiety. Yet, whether a musical instrument will annoy or soothe depends on the person who wields it. If the person — the average Indian driver — is impatient and scornful of both traffic rules and ordinary courtesy, the result is unlikely to be any different than the current din on our roads. Unless people are patient and mindful, traffic jams will not be any more pleasant than they are now. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — Nitin Gadkari is under the impression that replacing the honk of car horns with the sound of musical instruments will bring an end to the cacophony experienced during traffic jams. But the disharmonious melody of Indian instruments playing without timing or tune is likely to annoy the passengers stuck in traffic just as much. While it is certainly important to bring down the level of noise pollution, this suggestion is unlikely to bear fruit. Rupali Bhadra,Calcutta Sir — What’s in a name, that which is a horn will be as cacophonous as a tabla. Sunder R.P.,Coimbatore  Drawn afresh Sir — Comic book fans are delighted to learn that the new Superman, Jon Kent, the son of Clark Kent and Lois Lane, is bisexual and will be fighting crime alongside his new male love interest, Jay Nakamura. Jon Kent is not the first queer superhero — Loki is not only bisexual but also genderfluid — but a growing list of LGBTQI+ characters with superpowers is bound to alter the stereotypes about masculinity and sexuality that have shaped the genre. The recognition queer experiences will enrich the narrative and endear the genre to a newer generation of fans.Nilam Raina,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-19
14-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Deadlocked||Beijing is turning out to be the proverbial ‘Voldemort’ in Narendra Modi’s book on strategic engagement. The Indian prime minister is yet to take China’s name explicitly even though as many as 13 rounds of military-level talks have taken place to resolve the border dispute between New Delhi and Beijing. The semantics employed by both sides at the end of the last engagement were illuminating. The Indian army stated that ‘constructive suggestions’ had been put forward to diffuse the situation but that China had not been too ‘agreeable’ on its part. China responded by accusing India of harbouring ‘unreasonable’ expectations. The war of words indicates a hardening of position by the two rivals and that there is unlikely to be a resolution anytime soon. This, in turn, implies that the disputed hot spots — Demchok, Depsang — would continue to fester as points of friction in Indo-China ties. Worse, given the deadlock, Indian army’s jawans and commanders would have to brace themselves to be vigilant in an inhospitable terrain during a harsh winter. China, evidently, is in no hurry to end the crisis. The communist party has taken a decisively nationalistic — jingoistic — turn under the leadership of Xi Jinping. Keeping the border with India heated would be a good opportunity for an aggressive Beijing to flex its muscles occasionally. The onus, clearly, is on India to find a way out of the crisis. Even though New Delhi should continue to deploy its resources to ensure that no more territory is lost, military adventurism has to be ruled out as a strategic intervention in the light of the worrying possibility of a two-front threat. India must, therefore, rely on its tried-and-tested diplomatic mettle. It would be prudent for India’s prime minister to concede the scale of the threat; a public admission of territorial loss from the occupant of India’s highest electoral office could well render greater manoeuvrability to New Delhi’s diplomatic outreach. This is especially critical at a time when international alliances are being formed with an eye on the gathering storm in the region. What remains to be seen is whether Mr Modi has the acumen and the courage to bite the proverbial bullet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-19
14-10-2021||Opinion||Darkness behind light||The 2020 Tokyo Paralympics has turned out to be India’s most successful global mega event. Nineteen medals, five golds, five medals in a single day — all this from a country where the majority of its privileged citizens wouldn’t recognize the name, Murlikant Petkar, in a pub quiz. Petkar was India’s first Paralympic gold medallist in the Heidelberg Games in 1972. He was awarded a Padma Shri in 2018; the gap between the two events tells its own story. The resounding success of Indian Paralympians in Tokyo deserves to be saluted. By examining how it came to be, Indian sport could also identify the building blocks that can be used for other sporting mega events. The past showed us what doesn’t work. The present, through the Paralympics, could show us what does. The word found in every discussion on the success at the Tokyo Paralympics is ‘partnerships’ — among everyone involved in our para-sport ecosystem: athletes, their entourages, officials, fund-raisers and fund managers. The Bangalore-based GoSports Foundation was the first to include para-athletes in its support and mentorship programme. Over the last 15 years, Indian sport has been through an evolving clinical trial — featuring the injection of private capital, expertise and investment plus performance-focussed government funding for elite athletes and promising aspirants. The Paralympics success is the completion of one phase of the trial. The government’s role in this trial was the creation of the Target Olympic Podium Scheme launched in 2014 and then revamped in 2018 to assist Olympic and Paralympic contenders. The difference between both Tokyos is telling. After the Olympics, the resentment and pushback against private bodies and, in some cases, TOPS was palpable. The most prominent national sports federation to voice its disapproval was the Wrestling Federation of India. The WFI president said private bodies and the TOPS scheme have ‘ruined’ Indian wrestling and that he wouldn’t allow wrestlers attached to the private bodies to compete. This is nothing but a sports honcho resentful about the fact that it was possible for athletes to succeed without genuflecting before him. India’s Tokyo Paralympics success took place despite its still-dysfunctional ruling body, the Paralympic Committee of India. In the run-up to Tokyo, taxpayers’ money and the government’s sports-centric programmes and institutions — like TOPS — collaborated with private sports management bodies, both groups funnelling their energies towards the requirements of athletes. People working around the 2020 Paralympics programme credit the success of this partnership model to the Kiren Rijiju sports ministry, the bureaucrats in TOPS as well as the Sports Authority of India. Their focus was on a small but influential demographic of the ‘elite Indian athlete’ — Olympians and Paralympians together. The previously, slightly prickly relationship among the private organizations themselves and between them and ministry/ TOPS officials had smoothened out and they were made to work for the elite Indian athlete. Gaps for one group could be freely shared and filled by the other, be it finding expertise or supplying funding or executing decisions about competition and medical/rehab interventions. The most difficult piece in this partnership jigsaw was however always going to be the PCI. The PCI remains a mess: between 2015 and today, it has been banned, de-recognized and suspended by its international body, the International Paralympic Committee, and the Indian sports ministry, by the latter for National Sports Code violations. As recently as March 2021, the National Para Athletics Championship was shifted from Chennai to Bangalore with little notice to the athletes. Competitions were held in darkness using car headlights and mobile phone torches. Deepa Malik, the new PCI president, has promised to ‘use the momentum’ to fill the gaps in Indian para-sport — such as timely national competitions and selection trials and creating more certified classifiers. Currently Indian para-athletes can only get their category classification assessment done at a competition overseas, for which many have paid an inexplicable ‘fee’ to the PCI just to compete. Like in the majority of Olympic disciplines, in the Paralympics too, success at the top is not a reflection of a sporting organization/federation’s grassroots efficiency or competency. In fact, it only ends up covering up ugly truths on the ground. Sharda Ugra is an independent sports journalist||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-19
14-10-2021||Opinion||Dangerous direction||The five days of Durga Puja in West Bengal constitute one of the largest street carnivals in the world. It is undeniably a Hindu religious and cultural festival symbolizing the triumph of good over evil, the invocation of shakti, and even the homecoming of the daughter and her children. Over the centuries, it has evolved from being a family event to a community celebration involving people of all faiths — in line with the way the Christmas season (as opposed to Christmas Day) has evolved in the West. Predictably, it has also acquired a huge commercial dimension, in the same way as Diwali in northern India. This has been accompanied, particularly in the past decade, by over-politicization and the sites of worship being converted into avenues of political propaganda. As with a festival that takes place on a monumental scale and, quite naturally, involves the state administration, controversy and the Durga Puja are inseparable in West Bengal. Some of the earlier points of friction centred on the iconography of the goddess, with some organizers seeking innovative ways of presenting images of Ma Durga. In the three decades of Left Front rule in the state, the communists were ostensibly disengaged from the invocation of the goddess according to Hindu religious traditions. At the same time, since the festival witnessed the spontaneous involvement of the masses, a very conscious decision appears to have been taken to transform the Durga utsav into a sharadotsav, a process of secularization that involved underplaying the importance of Hindu traditions in the cultural life of Bengalis. Subsequently, in years when the five days of Durga Puja coincided with a Muslim festival, the state government intervened to give the minority community the right of passage. This, in turn, triggered political controversy and the matter had to be resolved through a judicial order. Some of the shifts in the public culture of the Durga Puja festival have been described by the historian, Tapati Guha-Thakurta, in her seminal work, In the Name of the Goddess: The Durga Pujas of Contemporary Kolkata (2015). “What began in the early 2000s as a shift away from the vulgarized culture of scale, opulence and glitter to a new premium on moderation, refinement and artistry has also reversed to renewed styles of sensationalism and gimmick, celebrity endorsements and a fanfare of inaugurations. Central to this turn has been the impassioned takeover of the Durga Pujas by Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and her political entourage in every major Puja ward and neighbourhood, leaving its inescapable imprint on all aspects of the visual culture of the festival. If Didi’s face now competes with Ma Durga’s for hoarding space, her round-the-year presence on the streetscape of the city taking on a new visibility in the season’s banners and hoardings... she has also thrown herself into the fray as a ‘Puja artist’ herself, bringing in her trail other leaders and ministers who are making their debuts in Puja designing. The sharply transformed political life of the festival finds manifestation in newer scales of Didi’s largesse and licenses — as she doled out pre-Puja donations to local clubs, waived at will corporation regulations and taxes over commercial hoardings, made it mandatory for various municipal departments to sponsor ten Pujas in the city and one Puja each in the district, or as she moved into a Puja inauguration spree from Mahalaya...” Since 2019, after competitive politics acquired a new turn in the state, there has been a discernible trend towards using ‘theme’ pujas to promote partisan politics. In earlier years, this included the exodus of migrant labour and the alleged iniquities of the new citizenship laws. This year, in what a state government minister has described as ‘an expression of artistic freedom’, a Puja pandal has been embellished with slippers, denoting the farmers’ agitation in North India. But whereas the earlier forays into political grandstanding had been brushed aside as needless or, in some cases, applauded as expressions of popular sentiment, the slippers controversy has taken a more vicious turn. The use of slippers in an event centred on worship has been denounced as a wilful assault on the sentiment of practising Hindus since it is customary to approach the deity barefoot. It is entirely possible that this act of insensitivity constituted an act of bravado, a feature of Bengali radical iconoclasm since the Young Bengal movement of the 19th century. However, neither those who threw pieces of beef into the homes of unsuspecting Hindus, thereby hoping they had secured a new convert, nor those Naxalites who beheaded statues of national icons to promote revolution enjoyed any social sanction, let alone political patronage. Today, the embellishment of a Puja with decorations of slippers is being portrayed as art, and those taking offence being tarred by the brush of bigotry. However, a foray into the past of Hindu Bengal would suggest a different trend. In his collection of essays on 19th and 20th century Bengal, Perceptions, Emotions, Sensibilities (1999), the historian, Tapan Raychaudhuri, pointed out — with examples from the lives of, among others, Rammohan Roy and Shibnath Shastri — that the intellectual acceptance of what is called ‘reformed Hinduism’ did not involve jettisoning traditional practices and ordinary decencies. In the guise of turning Durga Puja into a secular festival — where the chandipath could just as well become a version of the Buddha Bar background music and the Puja presented as some meaningless mumbo-jumbo from the past — what is being encouraged is a process of uprooting society from its inheritance. Whether this spurious cosmopolitanism will turn Bengali Hindus into true inheritors of the Enlightenment and take ‘progressive’ thought a step or two forward is a matter of conjecture. The Hindu ethos of Bengalis differs in important ways from the everyday traditions that prevail in both northern and southern India, but there are important points of convergence. It is pointless accusing a clutch of street-smart politicians with an eye on some future election of insidious religio-cultural engineering. But there is a case for suggesting that Bengali exceptionalism is slowly being steered in dangerous directions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-19
