15-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Tiny mirror||Numbers can tell a story. Consider the performance of India as well as that of Indian states on the gender parity index — a register conceived of by the Unesco — when it comes to access to Covid-19 inoculation. The good news is that the gender gap has almost disappeared in as many as 11 states of the country. This is no mean achievement. According to figures made available through CoWin, the national statistics site, between January and June this year, women had received 856 doses for every 1,000 men. This means that a certain degree of sensitization augmented by policy has helped get around embedded social and structural inequalities that were preventing Covid medicines from reaching equitably to men and women. India’s GPI score is 0.98, with Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Karnataka and West Bengal, among others, achieving the ideal ratio. But there is ground to be covered still. Maharashtra, Delhi and Goa continue to lag behind in terms of gender representativeness. This in spite of the fact that these regions have some of the higher scores on the human development index. Specialized interventions to close the chasm have not succeeded in some cases — Maharashtra being a case in point. Special drives to mobilize women for Covid vaccination have been in place in Maharashtra: yet, the gap in terms of numbers in that state is not insubstantial. While 4.78 crore shots have been administered to men, women have been given 4.06 crore jabs. Meanwhile, the other cracks that had been opened up in the course of the pandemic globally remain. Richer economies have vaccinated a larger number of people than poorer nations. Minority constituencies — sexual, ethnic or even religious groups — may not have received the necessary dosages to be adequately safe. This only goes to show that the legacy of Covid-19 is not limited to the realms of science and medicine. The virus has been the proverbial mirror, reflecting the fault lines of inequality and discrimination that continue to haunt human civilization.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-19
15-10-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Killing of civillians in Kashmir||In turmoil Sir — The killing of at least seven civilians in Kashmir is condemnable (“Blood returns”, Oct 11). It is unfortunate that a country like India, whose democratic set-up is a legacy, has been struggling to restore peace and harmony in the Valley. A number of those killed belong to minority communities in the region. The murder of a principal and a teacher at a government-run school in Srinagar evoked concerns over the safety of Sikhs and Kashmiri Pandits. It further conjured up widespread protests against The Resistance Front, a terror outfit which claimed responsibility for the incident. The Indian subcontinent has always been a safe abode for people from diverse regional, religious and linguistic backgrounds. Unfortunately, this long-nurtured tradition is gradually losing its glory owing to the emergence of religious fundamentalism and political megalomania. We must fight tooth and nail against this. Investigation must begin on a war footing to identify the culprits. The government must take steps to prevent the exodus of minority communities. Prabhakaran Vallath,Kozhikode, Kerala Sir — The economy of the Valley is already suffering. Many families are now trying to have their wards settled overseas. It is unfortunate that political leaders only pay lip service every time there are targeted killings of minority communities. A number of policemen and army men have also lost their lives fighting extremists. The Centre’s decision of abrogating Article 370 and bifurcating the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir should have resulted in improved efficiency in tackling separatist forces. The centuries-old legacy of harmonious life in the Valley must be restored and the lost paradise regained. Brij B. Goyal,Ludhiana Be safe Sir — It is welcome news that Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin for children above two years of age has been approved by the expert panel for emergency use (“Covaxin approved for use in kids”, Oct 13). The fact that doses of Zydus Cadila’s ZyCoV-D are also ready further inspires hope in people. As some states have reopened schools and many others are planning on doing the same, anxiety has been mounting among parents and teachers regarding the safety of children. Even though the severity of the infection has hitherto been low among the latter, immediate inoculation is required in order to avoid the risk of them becoming superspreaders once the institutions reopen. This could arrest the rise of a third wave. M. Pradyu,Kannur Sir — A vaccine for children has finally been approved. Although a subject expert committee has thoroughly studied the clinical data before making the decision, one cannot help but worry about how safe it would be. Even some adults are wary of taking the vaccine — many have succumbed to Covid even after having taken the vaccine. In fact, cases are still on the rise in Mumbai. Is the vaccine, then, truly effective? Melville X. D’Souza,Mumbai Sir — It is heartening that a Covid vaccine has been approved for children. But the coronavirus continues to pose an additional challenge to the government as India still has a long way to go in vaccinating the entire adult population with both doses. The pace of vaccination must be increased and more investments made in research. When it comes to the vaccination of children, the government as well as the pharmaceutical companies must share all relevant data and details to make parents feel safe. Bal Govind,Noida Sir — The approval of the vaccine for children is a timely intervention. This is because the third wave is being considered to be dangerous for children; all the more so, as they had until now been beyond the scope of vaccination. Now that the SEC has given its nod for emergency use authorization, states should gear up to inoculate children on a priority basis so that the moment the vaccine is available in the market, the process can begin. Vaccination drives should be held in all schools since they are highly prone to spreading infection. K. Nehru Patnaik,Visakhapatnam  Deep divide Sir — The real world has come to be threatened by the virtual one. Instagram — it had previously been accused of increasing the ‘fear of missing out’ among users — has now been found to make body-image issues worse for one in every three teenaged girls. It is common for social media to amplify one’s deepest insecurities. But, in reality, this is an illusion — most people tend to display only the highlights of their lives on social media. Posts from celebrity users and influencers raising awareness about this reality could help impressionable minds cope and feel inspired to unleash their own creativity on the platforms. Mohona Bhattacharya,Calcutta Parting shot Sir — Durga Puja has come to an end. It is common among families in Bengal to greet one another by means of an embrace or by smearing vermilion on each other. Difficult as it may be, we should avoid physical contact at all costs in order to prevent the spread of the pandemic. Care must also be taken that massive bisarjan processions are not held. This would set a positive example before the rest of the country. Shalini Gupta,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-19
15-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Harsh lessons||According to the 2021 State of the Education Report for India: No Teachers, No Class, 1.1 lakh schools in India have just one teacher. Even more worrying is the fact that the problem is especially acute in districts with high representations from scheduled castes and scheduled tribes and all across India’s Northeast, which is one of the nation’s underdeveloped regions. A total of 19 per cent or 11.16 lakh teaching positions in schools lie vacant in the country; 69 per cent of these are in rural areas. What must not be glossed over is the fact that a large number of these educators do not have permanent jobs: they are Shiksha Mitras or para teachers, who are usually qualified only to assist full-time teachers. Their job responsibilities are formidable, exposing the crisis in India’s primary education. In Shamli, Uttar Pradesh, for instance, one para teacher is responsible for 225 students at a government primary school. Even permanent teachers are at the mercy of governments — they are deputed to carry out census surveys, election duties and a plethora of non-teaching jobs, including cooking mid-day meals and administering polio drops. The Covid-19 pandemic has only aggravated their challenges. Teachers have also been tasked with distributing dry rations to students and carrying out compulsory election duties. In 2019, a survey of five states showed that teachers taught for only 19.1 per cent of their time; the rest was given to non-academic duties. The reported number of deaths of teachers from the virus is staggering. Yet, this beleaguered constituency has risen to the challenges time and again by coming up with innovative ways to impart education. From interactive classes held over WhatsApp to lessons recorded and broadcast on speakers, teachers have tried their best to include students who were not part of the government’s vision when it tried to push online education on ill-prepared schools at the margins. The advocacy for a total and uncritical immersion in online education by the government and the National Education Policy, rather than a nuanced use of digital resources by teaching staff, has deepened suspicions of a push towards the mechanization of education as well as an instrumental approach to learning. Significantly, the digital medium has also coincided with rising unemployment among teachers and tertiary staff. In Telangana last year, many teachers lost their jobs as private schools tied up with online learning platforms to deliver virtual classes to students. Clearly, the imperative is to cut costs. Reports also show political interference in recruiting teachers slowing down the process. In spite of the steep challenges faced by teachers and their remarkable ability to find a way around them, insensitive policy remains unwilling to view them beyond supplementary tools to learning outcomes. This attitude cannot bode well for India’s aspirations to become a knowledge economy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-19
15-10-2021||Opinion||Novel case||Armenia and Azerbaijan were in the news in September 2020 on account of their territorial dispute in Nagorno-Karabakh. On September 16, 2021, Armenia instituted proceedings against Azerbaijan before the International Court of Justice for alleged violations of the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination. On September 23, in a copycat move, Azerbaijan approached the ICJ, accusing Armenia of CERD violations, requesting the ICJ to direct it to “immediately cease and desist” from endangering Azerbaijani lives by “planting of landmines in Azerbaijan’s territory”. Armenia and Azerbaijan have been fighting over Nagorno-Karabakh, which is controlled by Azerbaijan but is populated by people of Armenian ethnicity, since 1991. Nagorno-Karabakh is to Armenia what Crimea was to Russia with Azerbaijan in Ukraine’s shoes. Armenia’s application to the ICJ notes that the Azerbaijani president “routinely” uses derogatory language to brand ethnic Armenians as “bandits” and “barbarians”. The clash over Nagorno-Karabakh erupted with a musically choreographed threat of use of force — a first of its kind — with Azerbaijan’s army releasing a death metal music video touting its military might. According to Armenia, a stamp issued by Azerbaijan sought to ‘commemorate’ Baku’s violations of CERD by depicting a Nazi-style chemical ‘disinfecting’ Nagorno-Karabakh. Armenia announced full mobilization in response. António Guterres paid the customary lip service expected of a UN secretary-general. Meanwhile, Iran, which borders both Azerbaijan and Armenia, offered its good offices for peace talks. Turkey spoke in support of Azerbaijan. Russia, a traditional ally of Armenia, called for an immediate ceasefire. In 2008, the ICJ had found no jurisdiction when Georgia took Russia to the ICJ for CERD violations even as the court allowed provisional measures. Now Armenia has decided to invoke similar charges against Azerbaijan. In the Mavrommatis Concessions case, the Permanent Court of International Justice ruled a “dispute” to be “a disagreement on a point of law or fact, a conflict of legal views or of interests between two persons”. The ICJ’s advisory opinion in the Interpretation of Peace Treaties with Bulgaria, Hungary and Romania case defined a legal dispute in relation to a Convention as “a situation in which the two sides held clearly opposite views concerning the question of the performance or non-performance of certain treaty obligations”. The CERD is an international convention to which both Armenia and Azerbaijan are signatories. All “good-faith” efforts, Armenia claims, for putting an end to Azerbaijan’s violations of CERD have failed. Article 22 of CERD allows the ICJ’s jurisdiction for treaty parties. The Armenian application to the ICJ contends that “[f]or decades, Azerbaijan has subjected Armenians to racial discrimination” and “Armenians have been subjected to systemic discrimination, mass killings, torture” that are illegal under CERD. Armenia further alleges that the end of hostilities and the November 2020 ceasefire notwithstanding, Azerbaijan has continued to “engage in the murder, torture and other abuse” of Armenian prisoners of war. In a prayer to the ICJ, Armenia has demanded that Azerbaijan release all Armenian PoWs and refrain from “espousing hatred” of Armenian ethnicity by “closing or suspending the activities of the Military Trophies Park”. A cursory reading of CERD makes it obvious that Azerbaijan is in violation of Article 5, recognizing political rights, civil rights, and equality before courts as well as right of access to “restaurants, cafes, theatres and parks”. Armenia has also asked for reparations from Azerbaijan under Article 6 of CERD. With no legal basis for a ‘comprehensive settlement’ of the Nagorno-Karabakh dispute by international courts, Armenia lacks the military power or the appetite for actions that are illegal under the UN Charter. By championing people-centricity in an unsettled territorial dispute, Armenia is decentring an international law obsessed with territory and states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-19
15-10-2021||Opinion||A new era||We have entered the era of big data. This era, which is just beginning, will have a greater impact on our lives than the advent of the computer did. Giant technology firms have access to a vast amount of our personal data, with or without our consent. They leverage the data for commercial interests of their own. They can monitor and influence our behaviour and actions. Control is the key, and we are often unaware of this enormous power. Politicians across the world have always leveraged information about particular groups, or individuals of interest, through surveillance mechanisms. In the emerging world of big data, governments can potentially magnify their surveillance powers and control over citizens many times more if only they had access to the kind of data that tech firms have. Hence, we are witnessing a rising tension between big tech and big government about ownership and use of data. The speed at which data is generated is astonishingly fast. It is claimed that every two years, the world generates more data than it ever did in the past, giving us a clue about the magnitude of the explosive increase. In short, the digital is becoming political. Who wins this battle for data is yet to be fully understood, but politics will change forever. The Pegasus moment is just one small example of the things to come. The battle to own our bodies and our minds will become increasingly intense. In this context, it may be interesting to speculate on the kinds of change politics might experience. We must realize that the prevalent form of representative democracy the world has experienced over the past two centuries will not last forever. It is bound to change along with a changing world. We can discern the patterns already. The role played by Cambridge Analytica in the elections in the United States of America is not a one-off event. It is part of an emerging trend. It may not be uniform across the world, but there will be no running away from these changes. We are in the midst of a historic shift in the human condition, no less important than the discovery of agriculture or the emergence of industry. Only this time we have to learn to live with non-human, or partially human, machines. Let us examine a few common features of political life. To begin with, try to think about the possible concentration of power. New technologies have a well-defined code of what we can or cannot do with them. The limits are part of the architecture. Machines and the new body-sensors will know more about us than we do ourselves. What news we receive, what comes first when we search on the internet, the way facts are chosen and presented — all this controls and influences our perceptions about reality. The machines will begin by showing us what we want to see and hear. Ultimately, Big Brother will control what we see and hear. Our scrutiny by machines will increase manifold. If machines can, in the near future, pick up signals about our emotional reactions and feelings, then we will enter a Kafkaesque world of trials without ever knowing the cause. Power will be concentrated in the hands of the people behind the machines. The next aspect of politics to be affected would be democracy. Potentially, new technologies of communication can make democratic decision-making more transparent. More public reactions could be made part of the information on the basis of which a public-policy decision would be made. But people’s information would already be tainted by the subtle persuasive power of the machine. Moreover, on any matter of public debate, the robots will have far greater information and analytical reasoning power than any ordinary mortal. If we want decisions to be based on the best available information and analysis, then the question would inevitably arise as to whether the robots should be allowed to vote or not. It might also be the case that all robots may not arrive at exactly the same decision. Let us examine another aspect of politics which is vital for any society: freedom of thought, speech and action. This freedom can be potentially enhanced through technology. However, what is socially permitted and what are the limits of acceptable behaviour will be determined by technology too. Social freedom, to be distinguished from anarchy, must reflect some shared basic values. However, the individual under surveillance is constantly controlled and influenced. Hence the shared values would be dictated by machines. Dave Eggers, in his book, The Circle, describes a giant tech firm that is run by three unseen founders. The firm specializes in continuously getting clients to rate everything under the sun on its digital platform. The world sees the voting outcomes as the truth and they shape what is considered good or bad by a vast number of users. Values, like consensus and truth, are created notions. Finally, even issues of distributive justice can be decided by algorithms: the screening of candidates for a job, insurance awards, stock market trade, and sanction of bank loans. Machines can also be coded with built-in biases against a particular gender, race, or ethnicity. Courts could become less useful as the merits of a case might be perfectly analysed with available evidence and all prior case precedents. No single lawyer or judge could ever do this. Public policy could also be screened through data analytics algorithms to find out the best available option or whether a policy is feasible or not. These are just a few examples of possible changes. A couple of issues are worth considering at this stage. Big Data is Big Power. Whosoever owns it and knows how to control it rules the world. Old-time politicians will be worthless in this game. Old-time business tycoons will also become obsolete. The new social engineers will be the new software experts. Even the old software engineers will be redundant. The new breed will be super-intelligent persons, possibly many of them half-human and half-machine or even a full-fledged robot that learns on its own. On them the moral burden of defining ethical behaviour will lie. They will define consensus, truth, values, and actionable agendas for society. At the same time, a very large part of the global populace will become useless and unemployable. Their ability to survive will depend on this new breed of super intelligent beings. Yet, the digital will be the only avenue open to raise voices of dissent, revolt against a machine system that redefines culture and values, demand more freedom or justice. It would be the best way to organize and hold the system accountable. This will not be easy: dissent and protest never were. Anup Sinha is former professor of Economics, IIM Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-19
