16-10-2021||Opinion||Collective surrender||Historians of Nazi Germany have always been troubled with one central question: how could one of the most advanced, sophisticated countries of Europe descend into the depths of barbarism in such a short span of time, culminating in the murder of millions of people? Some historians, called the intentionalists,  emphasized the importance of Hitler’s master plan as outlined in Mein Kampf, while other historians, called the functionalists, minimized the importance of Hitler and focused on the Nazi party machinery. The British historian, Sir Ian Kershaw, one of the most influential historians of Nazi Germany, synthesized these two approaches in his theory of “cumulative radicalisation” to explain the horrors of Nazi Germany. The radical and inhumane atrocities committed by Nazi Germany, according to Kershaw, were not dependent on the directions of Hitler, but grew out of the initiative of party bosses, bureaucrats and professionals who drew on his charismatic authority. “...Hitler’s authority gave implicit backing and sanction to those whose actions, however inhumane, however radical, fell within the general and vague ideological remit of furthering the aims of the Fuhrer,” wrote Kershaw. Thus, in Kershaw’s telling, the increasing radicalization of Nazi Germany, the accelerating “erosion of civilised values” and “spiralling radicalisation of discrimination and persecution”, was driven not just by ideological extremism but also by competition within the party and State machinery for “power, prestige and enrichment”. Social and political advancement depended on “working towards the Fuhrer” (a phrase Kershaw borrows from a Nazi minister). This phrase denoted activist action, carried out by both State and civil society actors, to realize the vision of Hitler. The ill-defined nature of Hitler’s ideological vision (‘racial purity’, ‘national redemption’) and the non-interventionist style of Hitler perfectly suited this ‘cumulative radicalisation’ as the followers of the Fuhrer, with often conflicting social motivations, sought to outdo each other in radical programmes of persecution. “One might denounce neighbours to the Gestapo, slur a business competitor’s ‘Aryan’ credentials, or nominate patients for the euthanasia program: this was all ‘working towards the Fuhrer’.” Kershaw contrasted this chaotic authoritarianism with the more programmatic authoritarianism of Stalinist Russia. India is, of course, not quite Nazi Germany on the brink of Holocaust, but this concept of ‘cumulative radicalisation’ is a useful mechanism to explain the country’s plunge towards the kind of violence and persecution that has been the hallmark of the Narendra Modi regime. The Modi government has not introduced a new system of governance. We have the same Constitution and the same governing institutions. Yet, over these last seven years, it has managed to transform the political culture in such a way that important functionaries in both State and civil society are incentivized to undermine the rule of law and the principles of equal citizenship as long as it appears to be in consonance with the political vision of Modi and his party. Most metrics of India’s ‘growing authoritarianism’ derive from the executive actions of the government or the laws passed by Parliament. These might include laws such as the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, the UAPA Act, 2019 or the new internet rules compromising the privacy mechanisms of social media providers. Yet, this ‘radicalization from above’ is only part of the story. Equally, if not more, important is the ‘radicalization from below’. These are the actions of fairly low-level party functionaries, policemen, government bureaucrats, lawyers, judges, journalists and right-wing vigilantes who are shaping the reality of the country everyday through their individual actions. A few incidents just over the last month can be furnished as evidence of India’s accelerating pace of radicalization where persecution of Muslims has assumed an endemic character. In Indore, a Muslim family of eight was attacked by Hindutva mobs in order to force them to leave their village. The police filed a first information report not just against the alleged perpetrators but also against their victims, a family of blacksmiths. In Indore city, four Muslim students were arrested for the crime of participating in a college garba event. In Assam, two Muslims were shot dead by the police during an eviction drive that is part of a State policy, which disproportionately targets Bengali-speaking Muslims. Across three northern states, Hindutva groups roamed the streets forcibly closing Muslim-owned meat shops during the festival of Navaratri. There is a common thread linking all these incidents — the role of the local police and bureaucracy in implementing, protecting or sanctioning various forms of violence against Muslims. Under the current regime, the State machinery is slowly freeing itself from the binds of the rule of law and embracing the insidious dynamic of vigilantism. The political scientist, Pradeep Chhibber, professor at the University of California, Berkeley, provided the clearest articulation of this political culture of vigilantism in an article earlier this year which merits being quoted at some length here. “The vanguard of this (Modi) regime are legions of vigilantes; these are ordinary citizens, businessmen, journalists, and of course, bureaucrats. They are the new regime’s foot soldiers, led not by the government openly, but by low-level officials and ordinary citizens seeking to ingratiate themselves with the powerful,” wrote Chhibber. Surveying events such as the arrest of the climate change activist, Disha Ravi, the Delhi police’s atrociously partisan investigation of the Delhi riots, and the attacks on movies and television shows, Chhibber concluded that “[i]n many of these cases, there is often no high-level directive from the government or top party leadership.” In a passage that strongly echoes the concept of Kershaw’s ‘cumulative radicalisation’, Chhibber underlined the internal logic of the new vigilantism: “Mid-level bureaucrats, police officials, local politicians, and activists take it upon themselves to enthusiastically promote what they perceive to be the government’s interests. These individuals want to prove their loyalty through actions they perceive might enhance their political or career chances.” Almost all institutions of the country — the media, judiciary, security agencies, tax agencies — have become increasingly corroded by this logic of ‘cumulative radicalisation’. To these can be added the Narcotics Control Bureau, where overzealous officers are presently carrying out a crusade against Bollywood in the name of curbing the menace of drug consumption. When Sameer Wankhede, Mumbai zonal director of the NCB executed the raid that led to the arrest of Aryan Khan, the son of Shah Rukh Khan, he must presumably have been cognizant of the satisfaction of his political masters at the prized catch. The quantity of drugs recovered were quite insignificant, and there is purportedly no direct evidence of the culpability of Aryan Khan. However, Wankhede has managed to bring the most prominent Muslim man in the country to his knees, which ultimately might have been the point, as the presence of a local BJP politician in the raid party suggests. This ‘cumulative radicalisation’ is nurtured by the strategic silence of Modi, allowing his underlings and followers to interpret his will and compete for his favours, while escaping responsibility if things go sour. His vision of a ‘Hindu rashtra’ is never explicitly spelt out, but only signalled, especially through appointments to high office. Perhaps the most consequential policy decision of the Modi years has been installing Yogi Adityanath, a controversial monk then mainly known for running a violent anti-Muslim outfit, to the throne of Uttar Pradesh. As the political journalist, D.K. Singh, has written, Yogi Adityanath has since emerged as the model for all other BJP chief ministers and seeded a perverse competition among them on who can go the furthest in clamping down on dissent and persecuting Muslims. A good example is Himanta Biswa Sarma, who has started the first six months of his tenure as chief minister by imposing a stringent cow slaughter ban, allegedly encouraging fake encounters, slapping UAPA charges over social media posts and intensifying eviction drives of Bengali-speaking Muslims. Since Sarma comes from a Congress lineage, it stands to reason that personal advancement in the party rather than purely ideological motives lie behind his radicalism. The story of ‘New India’ is not being written by Modi alone; some of its pages are being written by people like Himanta Biswa Sarma and Yogi Adityanath; and still others are being written by innumerable obscure Indians, be it a judge denying bail to dissidents or Dalit activists, or a journalist spreading invidious propaganda against farm law protesters, or a policeman arresting Muslims on trumped-up charges. Yet, all of them are, in a sense, ‘working towards Modi’ and towards his party. ‘New India’ is being constructed on the building blocks of ideological extremism and is cemented by the greed of those who wish to prosper from it. This is the ‘cumulative radicalisation’ which opens the door for all kinds of atrocities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-18
16-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Dot with the tail||Climate change — earth is experiencing its sixth great cycle of extinction — is threatening innumerable living beings. According to some scientific estimates, more than 25,000 species are facing oblivion in the near future. These include mammals, reptiles, avians and — that virtual speck in this sea of loss — the Grammar Police. For the climate of communication is changing as well, bringing death to punctuations on account of ‘extreme technological events’. For instance, the full-stop, a perfectly acceptable — even crucial — piece of punctuation without which no sentence can even end, has been known to touch a sore spot among millennials and members of Generation Z. The latter species pride themselves for not honouring the established rules of grammatical engagement. This burgeoning tribe even believes that there is a rationale for its irreverence: punctuations, it is being argued, suck life out of funny, crispy social media exchanges, turning them dull. The irrelevance of punctuations signals another triumph: the victory of image over text. The dominance of emojis — pictogrammes that substitute words with pictorial depictions of a wide range of emotions — and other kinds of image over the written word has also pushed punctuations towards the exit door. Mercifully, in certain corners of the world, punctuations can still pack a punch or two. Most recently, in Australia, a missing apostrophe in a Facebook post could, in all probability, cost a real estate agent a fortune after a court permitted defamation proceedings to begin, arguing that the grammatical slip left considerable scope for the message to be misinterpreted. Three years ago, a court in the United States of America had taken an equally refreshing position, stating that the absence of an Oxford comma had led to significant ambiguity. The belligerence of the young, as opposed to the dour defence of language and its rules by stately institutions such as the courts, reflects a growing, but interesting, crack in the global order. From being divided into ‘Haves’ and ‘Have-Nots’, the turf is now being carved out between two new adversarial camps. There are the Language Rebels, those who want to rewrite or, worse still, do away with punctuations if not grammar. The resistance to this frightening purge is being led by the dedicated Grammar Police: a ‘grammar vigilante’ in Bristol, it had been reported earlier, goes about in the dead of the night, adding apostrophes where they are necessary and deleting them when they are not. This cat-and-mouse game between the anti-grammarian and the grammarian is getting fractious. But the bitterness does not mean that the neutral reader cannot glean the larger message. Language, as always, remains the barometer of the life and times of a society. Words, with or without the apostrophe, are still the proverbial compass to chart the direction of monumental change.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-18
16-10-2021||Opinion||The north London house where Tagore stayed in 1912||A number of people have viewed the semi-detached house in the Vale of Health, Hampstead in north London worth £2.7 million where Rabindranath Tagore stayed in 1912, I am told by “Nibs” Lakhani, who is handling the sale as director of the estate agents, Goldschmidt & Howland. “The property was empty for a while but the owners have moved back in — they are very nice,” he tells me. Now that Mamata Banerjee has got her election out the way, perhaps she will be able to give the possible purchase of such a historic property more attention. I have been trying to encourage Lord Swraj Paul, effectively her personal ambassador in London, to do whatever he can to help. He assures me he is more than willing. Lakshmi Mittal is another big hitter with a Calcutta connection — he generously supports one or two of the London Pujas. I know the house well since my first job after university was to cover the Hampstead area as a reporter for the North London Press. It has a blue plaque commemorating Tagore’s stay. I think it is a corner of London that should become forever Bengal. Hampstead itself is a green and leafy corner of London, with a big Bengali settlement in adjacent Belsize Park (Jyoti Basu had student accommodation there). The Bengalis are currently celebrating Puja with rather more dhoom-dham than was possible last year. Next door in Camden, the call of Mother Durga is enhanced by offerings of everything from Bengali fish fry to phulkopir shingara and beguni to Calcutta-style chicken biryani. Right-wing British commentators have long made fun of Prince Charles, dismissing him as an eccentric on matters such as climate change. But times have changed and I think a lot of people, especially the young, will take note of what the 72-year-old heir to the throne had to say about his own diet: “For years, I haven’t eaten meat and fish on two days a week and I don’t eat dairy products on one day a week. If more did that, you would reduce a lot of the pressure.” Questions on the highbrow TV quiz show, University Challenge, are normally very tough — at least for me — but here are three that came up this week when Birmingham scored 245 against Sussex’s 10, a record low, that made Indians smile: 1) Irrfan Khan played the adult version of the title character in the film adaptation of which novel by Yann Martel? 2) In 2004, Khan starred in an adaption of which Shakespeare play? 3) Khan plays a police inspector who questions the young Jamal Malik, played by Dev Patel, in which film? I recently went to the National Theatre to see Ayub Khan Din’s autobiographical play, East is East, exactly 25 years to the day I attended its premiere at the Birmingham Repertory Theatre on October 8, 1996. Set in Salford, near Manchester, in 1971, it tells of a Pakistani immigrant, “George” Khan, who has married Ella, an Englishwoman, but is frustrated when he tries to bring up six stroppy sons and a daughter as “good Muslims”. Ayub was sitting next to me. His play was made into a film starring the late Om Puri in 1999 but we agreed the stage version with its subtle nuances and very funny lines is vastly superior. The writer of a new BBC drama on how Jews were once subjected to violent attacks by fascist thugs in the East End of London mentioned India in passing. Alas, it wasn’t flattering. The four-part series, Ridley Road, written by Sarah Solemani, is based on what actually happened in London in the early 1960s when Jews living in the East End were targeted by the neo-Nazi National Socialist Movement, led by Colin Jordan. The police protected Jordan’s fascists — in the interests of “free speech” — even when they marched through Ridley Road, a Jewish settlement, wearing para-military uniform and brandishing swastikas. Jordan also campaigned against Asian and black immigration, especially in 1972 when Ugandan Indians refugees started arriving in the UK. The Jews have been replaced by Bangladeshis, who also had to fight back in the 1970s when far-right groups marched past their homes. What caught my attention was Solemani’s comment that the drama deals with bygone history, but is pertinent to modern times. Solemani says: “Britain’s relationship with fascism is closer and more alive than we like to think. Luckily, so is our rich heritage of fighting it.” She adds, “I think this story is an important one to tell because the dilemma of 1962 is still one that we’re grappling with now — which is, why are people drawn to the far right? What is it about that ideology and rhetoric that is still appealing, so many years on? Not just in England, but in America, Eastern Europe, India, Brazil, it’s something that has had a surge of popularity.” Indra Nooyi, the former CEO of PepsiCo, who has been in the United Kingdom to promote her autobiography, My Life in Full: Work, Family, and Our Future, revealed that she reads “like a maniac”. Later, when I asked her which five books she would take to a desert island, she protested, “Only five?” Pressed, she finally responded: “All of Enid Blyton.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-18
16-10-2021||Opinion||Letters to the Editor: Why overlook Paralympic gold medallists?||Sir — Indian athletes performed remarkably well at the 2021 Tokyo Olympics and Paralympics, bringing home multiple gold medals. Yet, Neeraj Chopra, who won the sole gold medal at the Summer Olympics, has been featured in advertisements and magazine covers whereas the five Paralympic gold medallists have been largely overlooked. Chopra should certainly be celebrated for his achievements, but is there any reason why the same attention cannot be paid to para-athletes? It seems that even the highest accolades cannot end the apathy faced by para-athletes. Abhirup Dutta, Calcutta Sir — The recent Chinese incursions into Indian territory and the inability of the two governments to resolve the crisis are cause for concern (“Deadlocked”, Oct 14). After 13 rounds of negotiation, New Delhi and Beijing are yet to make any headway in resolving the 17-month-long stand-off. The Line of Actual Control has been disputed for years, but China’s commitment to the wolf-warrior diplomatic strategy under Xi Jinping has further shrunk room for discussion. India is right to forge partnerships with the United States of America, Australia and Japan through the Quad. With the Chinese government building infrastructure along the Indo-China border, New Delhi would need all the help possible in battling the looming threat to India’s territorial sovereignty. We must improve our infrastructure, lines of communication and defence preparedness along the LAC so that we are not blindsided in the future. H.N. Ramakrishna,Bangalore Sir — It is unlikely that India and China will be able to resolve the border crisis without third-party arbitration. India is in no position to go to war with China but neither can it concede its territory. New Delhi should not let this escalate any further. Yashwant Bagaria,Udaipur Sir — It is shocking to learn that 500,000 Indians die annually because of non-availability of organs (“Honour the dead”, Oct 12). Data reveal that between 2014-19, there were approximately 0.5 donors per million per year which accounted for a little over 800 deceased donations annually. These are worrying numbers for a country where the population stands above a billion. There are several socio-cultural reasons why Indians are reluctant to donate their organs but one of the foremost — and avoidable — reasons why organ donations fail is because families are either unaware of the deceased’s decision or they do not notify hospitals on time. Bappaditya Mukhopadhyay has identified five key players: the donor, the agency that registered the donor, the hospital where the patient died, the recipient hospital, and the donor’s family members as crucial to the process. It is not difficult to plug these gaps and a well-maintained database will resolve many of the issues. Jahar Saha, Calcutta Sir — A large number of Indians shy away from organ donations because of religious and cultural notions attached to the sanctity of the body. We must have open conversations about the necessity of organ donation and the massive harm caused by such beliefs if we hope to change the current situation. Abhirup Sanyal, Santiniketan Sir — The silence of the government on the Pandora papers is completely unacceptable. Before coming to power, Narendra Modi had been vocal about punishing those guilty of tax evasion and bringing kala dhan back to India. It is now evident that those were just pre-election claims — the home minister, Amit Shah, even clarified that Modi’s declaration of depositing Rs 15 lakh in the banks of Indians is a jumla and must not be taken literally. The government is simply not interested in resolving the crisis. Anthony Henriques, Mumbai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-18
