17-10-2021||Opinion||Letters to the Editor: No excuse is too lame when it comes to buying more books ||Colourful sight Sir — The standard bookshelf is organized by subject or author, but the latest social media trend is to colour code books. While the obsessive reader often does not care how books are arranged or indeed bothers to arrange books at all, there is one undoubted benefit to this: in order to fill in the missing colours, you will buy more books. This may be hard on the pocket but it is definitely both enriching for the mind as well as the beleaguered publishing industry. This is also a great way to turn books into items of home decor — no excuse is too lame when it comes to buying more books. S. Banerjee, Calcutta Good work Sir — The decisive victory of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam in the local body elections is a recognition of the good work that the M.K. Stalin-led government has done since it came to power. Although the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam and the Bharatiya Janata Party tried to tarnish the image of the new government, people refused to fall into their trap. This is indicative of the sincerity with which the new government is trying to fulfil its electoral promises. This should also impress upon the DMK rank and file the importance of working for the people. The chief minister, in turn, should not hesitate to take strict action against party members who do not fulfil their duties or are involved in corruption. Tharcius S. Fernando, Chennai Hungry nation Sir — The latest Global Hunger Index indicates that unless urgent measures are taken, the goal of ending world hunger by 2030 set by the United Nations will be unattainable. This report comes close on the heels of UN data showing that the number of undernourished people increased from 320 million to 2.4 billion — a third of the world population — in the last year. Frequent extreme weather events associated with climate change have exacerbated food insecurity. Worse, dependence on a single type of crop — wheat or rice in India, which slipped to 101 out of 116 countries and is behind Pakistan, Bangladesh and Nepal — makes people doubly vulnerable. The longer climate justice is put on the back-burner, the longer people will continue to suffer. The right to adequate, nutritious food is a fundamental one. Rise in hunger levels thus is a violation of human rights. Venu G.S., Kollam, Kerala Sir — India’s rank in the GHI is a matter of shame. India is said to have the highest child-wasting rate worldwide and fares poorly on other parameters like undernourishment, child-stunting and child mortality. Comparisons with neighbours like Nepal, Bangladesh and Pakistan are futile. India’s circumstances are different and its challenges greater. More than food security, food distribution is unequal and riddled with corruption. Equally important is a forthright assessment of the ‘Clean India’ campaign because without proper hygiene, even good nutrition will not help. S.S. Paul, Nadia Sir — If India had made it to the top 50 countries in the GHI, would the government have still questioned its methodology? The government can only accept compliments and not its faults. If India is to improve, it has to learn to accept its shortcomings first. Jang Bahadur Singh, Jamshedpur Parting shot Sir — Navjot Singh Sidhu has withdrawn his resignation and decided to continue as the Punjab Congress chief.  Yet, Sidhu’s dithering — both in politics and on the cricket ground — makes him an unreliable character. He is unlikely to benefit the Congress in any way. In fact, he may prove to be a stumbling block in the path to victory given his whims. He had behaved similarly in the Bharatiya Janata Party. Handing over command to a turncoat shows the complete bankruptcy of the Congress leadership. M.R. Jayanthy, Mumbai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-18
17-10-2021||Opinion||Modern reading||Browsing online, I came upon an argument about how far into a book you need to go before you can abandon it as unreadable. I was pleased to see that the consensus was that if the book hadn’t hooked you inside forty pages, you could give up reading it without guilt. This is the sort of rule that grown-ups need; through school, reading was a more ruthless business. Two pages of tedium and it was time to move on to the next thing. This had something to do with our reading being driven by libraries. The books were borrowed, not bought, so we weren’t financially invested in getting to the end. Once I began buying books, I tried harder to hack my way through the dense bits because I wanted my money’s worth, paisa vasool. Reading fiction in the 1960s wasn’t seen by adults as a serious pastime, but my Jesuit school had a library that was mainly made up of thousands of novels. I’m not sure if this was a general feature of padre-run schools or the local librarian’s eccentric enthusiasm, but the net result was complete sets of the sort of generic fiction that socialized schoolboys into reading. I grew up assuming that all school libraries were like mine; when my children were old enough to go to school, I discovered that their school library didn’t have any fiction at all. As a result, their cohort began to graze in boundless digital pastures before they had gotten to the end of a book. That odd locution, ‘long-form’ writing, has come into its own in this online age. The term generally refers to an inordinately long piece of essayistic reportage, which seems to assume that the reader’s commitment to the topic being tackled will get her to the end of the piece without the need for authorial economy or concision. It’s the kind of thing that used to be confined to high-minded American magazines, but the contagion has spread to newspapers. I recently began reading a ten-thousand-word report in The New York Times which brought to that paper’s vast readership a quarrel between two mostly unknown writers. One of them had used the Facebook posts of the other, about her kidney donation, as the basis for a short story, thus spinning a tale out of someone else’s entrails. It is the kind of long-form ‘reportage’ that sees the light of day only because its publishers know that it’ll drive online social media traffic for days afterwards; ironically, the success of long-form pieces like this one is measured by the radically short-form traffic — tweets, memes — that they generate. Seen in this way, much contemporary long-form writing is either mulch for social media or a form of self-congratulation for our digital times. It allows the dogged reader to do some heavy lifting, and distance himself from his slack contemporaries with their attention deficits. There is, of course, some long-form writing that both enthrals and informs, but mostly it is a form of authorial and editorial self-indulgence masquerading as seriousness. One of the participants in the online argument about how many pages a reader ought to read before chucking a book made the interesting point that given our life spans, reading is a finite, quantifiable business. The most a diligent reader is likely to read over a lifetime is just over 3,000 books. It’s disconcerting to have a number put on an activity that you think of as continuous and lifelong, and I was convinced that this was a low estimate. But I did a back-of-the-envelope calculation and realized that 3,000 books, if you are a seriously diligent reader, is plausible. If you assume that average life-expectancy is 75, you have about sixty-five years of reading time. If, in that time, you read, on an average, one book a week, allowing for ill health and other distractions, you’ll rack up about 3,200 books. Therefore, time spent reading an unpromising book is time lost, time that you could have used to read something worthwhile. And the truth is that outside of professional book reviewers or fixtures on book prize juries, the number of people who regularly average a book a week is vanishingly small. Reviewers and jurors are to be pitied. As a young reader, I thought that being paid to review novels was equal to winning a lottery. I know now that reading a novel to review it is like preparing for an autopsy. It makes you read in an assessing, distant way that is antithetical to the willing submission most fiction readers offer to even a half-decent story. Non-fiction books can and should be summarized, examined for their relationship to reality and their explanatory power. I can read a historical monograph reviewed and then read the book without it making a significant difference to the way in which I receive it. Good novels are exercises in indirection. To read a review before reading a novel is to trash the novelist’s designs on you. The one purpose of a review is to produce an adjectival phrase that can be used as a blurb to puff the book without giving anything away. There is the occasional review that is useful because it is evangelical and succeeds in bringing a new writer to a readership by the force of the reviewer’s enthusiasm. Novel reviewing collectively is useful because it signals to the world at large that novels are important; individual reviews, though, generally defeat the purpose of reading fiction. During the pandemic, I read quantities of science fiction and fantasy on my mobile phone via the Kindle reader app. I haven’t read any other sort of fiction on it, though I could. I guess it has to do with the fact that I was socialized into a caste hierarchy of reading: literary novels were Brahmin books but ‘genre’ novels were subaltern fictions. Even though I know that most of the best novels I’ve recently read have either been SF or verged on it, I still think that backlit Kindle reading is an improper way of reading books that pass as literary novels. The good thing about this fetish is that it had me reading Becky Chambers’s excellent space opera in a dentist’s waiting room simply because I had it downloaded in my pocket. Occasionally, though, you find yourself reading a novel that justifies the talk about the importance of the paper book, its tactile pleasure, the ease with which it lets you retrace your steps as a reader and the subtle tension that the diminishing wad of pages on the right creates. The kind of novel that you read in two sittings, either side of lunch, deaf to the world, almost as if you were young. I read a book like that two weeks ago: Anuk Arudpragasam’s A Passage North. mukulkesavan@hotmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-18
17-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Sons and fathers ||Up, up and away. Superman has flown away leaving his son, Jon Kent, with the flowing red cape. But in some respects Kent Junior has bigger challenges than those shouldered by his father: he is bisexual in a world that is still largely homophobic. Superman: Son of Kal-El, authored by the Melbourne-based writer, Tom Taylor, will feature Jon sharing a kiss with his friend and online journalist, Jay Nakamura. Apart from proving Superman has always had a thing for reporters, Jon expressing his bisexuality could well be a watershed moment in the venerable franchise. Queer representation has always been read into superhero comics — after all, Wonder Woman hails from an island of women who have been hanging around together for thousands of years, with nothing to stare at but one another: the comics’ favoured catchphrase is “Suffering Sappho!” This push for the accommodation of alternative sexuality in an alternative reality was markedly refreshing given that the Comics Code Authority, a censorship body, forbade any mention of homosexuality from 1954 until 1989. Only in recent years have characters like Iceman, Loki, Harley Quinn, Poison Ivy and Tim Drake’s Robin come out as queer. The significance of a queer Superman, however, lies not in an expression of solidarity but elsewhere. While Superman is often portrayed to be an uncomplicated crusader unlike, say, Batman, who has pronounced psychologically complex issues, the Man of Steel began his career as a champion of the oppressed. A survey of the history of comic books would show that most men and women in capes are created and enjoy their greatest popularity during times of transition and uncertainty, be they economic troubles, armed insurrections or political precarity. Expressing one’s sexual identity in an unempathetic world could well be perceived as an equally poignant moment of transition. In this sense, the fact that Jon Kent flies — or should that be swings? — both ways represents a continuum of his father’s legacy. Hearteningly, son also chafes against father’s tendency to simply put out literal and figurative fires instead of bending his formidable powers towards addressing the systemic problems that caused them. But a discerning — cynical? — reader would also be able to spot a canny strategy here. Comic books resist queering core characters — those heavily licensed nuggets of intellectual property are allergic to meaningful change if they are to remain commercially viable. The comicverse, therefore, introduces much-needed, long-overdue progress along the edges — a sympathetic villain here, a progressive sidekick there. Even when top-tier superheroes like Superman are sent out of the closet — an act bound to grab attention — it is always with an all-important asterisk: *Not the Clark Kent Superman, but his recently introduced son. Unsurprisingly, the creators of Jon Kent have been accused of hopping on to the ‘woke’ bandwagon. Yet progress often takes place in small, incremental ways. As the world depicted on the pages of the comics starts to mirror the one off it, as more members of comics’ diverse readership gain the opportunity to see a version of themselves on the pages, the result, hopefully, would be the emergence of two richer, inclusive worlds — one real, the other imagined.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-18
17-10-2021||Opinion||For RJD, the age of the lantern is not yet over ||Rising star Aparajita Sarangi, the member of parliament from Bhubaneswar, is slowly emerging as a major challenger to Dharmendra Pradhan, the Union minister of education and skill development and entrepreneurship, in the Odisha unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party. Till now, Pradhan has been ruling the roost in the state unit. His managerial skills are acknowledged by almost all the leaders of the party where his word is considered to be final. However, Sarangi, who took premature retirement from the Indian Administrative Service to join the BJP, has learnt the political ropes rather quickly. Her popularity has been growing both as an MP and a national spokesperson of the BJP. In view of this, the leadership has started nurturing her talent. Last month, Sarangi went to Gujarat where she reportedly underwent a crash course on the BJP’s election strategy. Recently, she was even seen imparting tips to senior BJP leaders on the art of managing and winning elections. “Spoke to all my Party colleagues about the methodology of creating a strong Organization. Sought everyone’s support... ” Sarangi tweeted. This was apparently in preparation for the upcoming panchayat elections which will be a major test of popularity for parties ahead of the general elections in 2024. Sarangi, who won the 2019 election against all odds, seems set to challenge the virtual monopoly of Pradhan in the Odisha BJP unit. Bold message How big a lantern have you seen? The Rashtriya Janata Dal is going to instal a huge lantern — its election symbol — weighing around six tonnes. It will be installed at the party’s state headquarters in Patna. The RJD chief, Lalu Prasad, is expected to light it on his arrival from New Delhi. The lantern will stay lit round the clock. When asked about the need for such a huge lantern, the state party president, Jagdanand Singh, is said to have pointed out that the RJD, although currently in Opposition, is the largest party in Bihar. Others added that it will send a bold message that the ‘age of the lantern’ is not yet over. “In any case, the scarcity of coal and electricity in the country created by the National Democratic Alliance government at the Centre is pushing the country towards a time when lanterns will be the most reliable source of light,” another RJD leader added. The ruling Janata Dal (United) retaliated by asserting that it showed the designs of the RJD to take the state backwards. One JD(U) leader stressed that the RJD should erect a pillar and put a lantern atop it. “It would serve as a lighthouse to warn people from going near the RJD office,” he quipped. Fishy affair It is not odd for two top leaders of rival political parties to meet, at least in the usual sense. But things have been unusual in Karnataka of late with three former chief ministers engaged in a battle over who met whom. HD Kumaraswamy of Janata Dal (Secular) insists that PC Siddaramaiah of the Congress had secretly met BS Yediyurappa of the BJP, fuelling speculations about a possible alliance. Since Yediyurappa is yet to reconcile with how his party forced him to quit a few months ago, there are rumours of him floating a new party. But both Siddaramaiah and Yediyurappa have vehemently denied meeting each other. Siddaramaiah has been a thorn in the BJP’s side for a long time and he would prefer to remain so. That is why at least a section of the BJP leadership smells something fishy in the alleged Siddaramaiah-Yediyurappa bonhomie. Tough task The Karnataka CM, Basavaraj Bommai, has been trying his best to please the top leadership in the BJP and the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh ever since he was appointed for the top job more than two months ago. From being an advocate of the anti-conversion law to giving tacit support to moral policing, he has come a long way. But with strong moorings in socialism and as an erstwhile member of the Janata parivar under the tutelage of his late father and former CM, SR Bommai, Bommai Junior has the tough task of holding on to his chair even if his party gets lucky in the 2023 state polls. Never give up It is nearing two years since JP Nadda took over as the BJP national president. However, he is yet to assert his authority within the party. Leaders as well as party workers feel that Nadda has to seek the nod of either the prime minister, Narendra Modi, or the home minister, Amit Shah, for every decision that he takes at the organizational level. Now that Covid restrictions have been eased, Nadda appears to be taking charge. He has reportedly directed Union ministers to visit the BJP headquarters on a regular basis and meet party cadres. The newly appointed health minister, Mansukh Mandaviya, was apparently the first to spend time at the party office earlier this week and others are expected to follow suit. The decision was taken in view of the upcoming assembly polls to appease the cadres who have been complaining that ministers do not meet them. The buzz in the party corridor, however, is that Nadda is using this opportunity to stress the importance of the organization he heads.  Footnote: Tej Pratap Yadav recently decided to walk barefoot for 2.5 kilometres from Jayaprakash Narayan’s statue in Gandhi Maidan, Patna to his residence to pay homage to the leader on his birth anniversary. The sun was blazing and soon the asphalt road became very hot. Yadav tried to walk briskly but it did not work. Then, his supporters came up with the idea of pouring mineral water in front of him so that he could complete his walk. “What a waste,” quipped a senior RJD leader watching the entire episode.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-18
17-10-2021||Opinion||God and the forsaken||This Durga Puja, the Bengal BJP found new reason to be offended. In the pre-Assembly election years, the complaint had been that the people of the state were “not allowed to celebrate Puja”. But this year, ordinary citizens braved the pandemic and poured out of their homes to celebrate life and living; hence, a new line of offence was sought and found. And there it was in a Durga mandap. A pandal in Dum Dum Park had put up an installation of a giant pair of blistered feet and hundreds of orphaned footwear. There were pro-farmer slogans and graffiti too, around the place. A tractor full of gunny bags at the entrance. All of it some distance away from the idol of the goddess. Seeing is… Depending on who you are, the installation would have reminded you of the long march of Maharashtra farmers from 2018. More than 35,000 of them, many barefooted, had marched to Mumbai from Nashik, braving 180 kilometres and a blazing sun. One of the visuals that went viral was of the bleeding foot of a Sakku Bai. Depending on who you are, the installation would have reminded you of the longer march of migrant labourers, welting across India right through lockdown. Or the 16 weary workers who had lain down one evening on a rail track near Aurangabad and the next day turned into an enduring image of strewn roti and chappals. You might have seen in the installation, the resolve of the farmers at Tikri or a flash of Lakhimpur Kheri, depending on who you are and who you will be. Kaunspiracy These Pujas, there have been pandals themed on issues as varied as a childhood swallowed up by a virus and the worry of having to prove citizenship. Like every year, this year too, the pandals and their art mirrored life as it is. Light installations showed oxygen cylinders and, aesthetics apart, there was a pandal designed to look like lungs.  But all that the Suvendu Adhikaris and Tathagata Roys saw in the Dum Dum Park installation was a “heinous act” and an affront to Hinduism and therein pulled down man and god alike. Neither divinity nor humanity is so fragile that they will come apart on interpretation. Poor politics is another matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-18
