18-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Many questions||New India does not encourage questions. Answers, even when they come, are inordinately delayed too. An analysis by the Satark Nagrik Sangathan has revealed that the national backlog of cases before the state and Central information commissions has crossed 2.55 lakh, up from 2.2 lakh last year, which marked 15 years of the conception of the Right to Information Act. This rising pendency is particularly significant as these commissions are responsible for hearing appeals related to RTI pleas that have been denied, sometimes wrongfully, by government bodies. Delays obscure transparency and dilute the effectiveness of the RTI Act itself. Although the reasons behind this problem are clear — shortage of personnel and inefficient operations have been cited by the report — redressive steps remain few and far between. Even after filling four vacant positions nearly a year ago, the CIC has three vacancies left and has not functioned at the full, required strength for almost five years. Of the 29 commissions examined in the report, at least three — Tripura, Jharkhand and Meghalaya — were found to be defunct while 21 did not hold a single hearing during the first three stages of the national lockdown in 2020. The increasing backlog is, however, merely the tip of the iceberg. The infrastructure surrounding the RTI Act has been crumbling for some time. Last year, it was found that penalties for wrongful denial of RTI pleas were imposed in only 2.2 per cent of cases in spite of violations accounting for approximately 59 per cent. By downplaying the threat of serious consequences, it promotes a culture of impunity that is harmful to the very fabric of democracy. The law has been tampered with by politicians of all hues. Notwithstanding the CIC’s stand that political parties should come under the ambit of the Act, the United Progressive Alliance government amended it in 2013 to exclude them from its scope, a change that persists till date. This goes against the spirit of the Supreme Court’s ruling to bring even the office of the Chief Justice of India under the purview of the Act. In 2019, the Act was amended — this time by the Narendra Modi-led government — without public consultation to give the Centre greater say over the terms of service of information commissioners, a move that could reduce the institution’s ability to function independently. Transparency is a cornerstone of democracy. Swift redressal of the gaps in the machinery tasked with upholding this principle is essential to hold governments accountable.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-17
18-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Rights divided||A vision divided thrives on contradictions. On the 28th anniversary of the foundation of the National Human Rights Commission, the prime minister criticized partisan attitudes displayed in protests against human rights violations by those who view them through a “political lens”. Bharatiya Janata Party leaders repeatedly accuse activists of being partial to non-BJP victims of rights abuses. Narendra Modi called this “selective outrage”, which demeans the country and endangers democracy. Yet there could have been no definable human rights without political awareness. But the prime minister was referring to the divisive politics of rival parties: observers have speculated that he may have been alluding to the fact that the death of four protesting farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri had aroused furious criticism although two BJP workers died there too. Since the BJP has been countering criticism of the Uttar Pradesh government for Lakhimpur Kheri by suggesting that the protests were politically motivated, perhaps the prime minister gave it a philosophical twist. After having condemned the political lens, however, Mr Modi listed the ‘basic needs’ of various segments of people that his government had fulfilled so they could acquire ‘dignity’ — cooking gas, Jan Dhan accounts, toilets, housing, 26 month-long maternity leave, outlawing of oral triple talaq, and so on. To project citizens as beneficiaries of his government’s largesse, however, is not to dignify them but to suggest that they are not entitled to these. His conception of human rights is divided too. Only when people’s basic needs are met can they aspire to human rights. For Mr Modi, these are not only distinct, but also sequential. So is housing not a right because it is a basic need? Is food more ‘basic’ than justice, and not part of justice itself? Again, can a citizen whose basic needs are unfulfilled not have rights? The prime minister also emphasized — as he has done many times earlier — that the ‘flip side’ of rights was duties. Human rights could thus become conditional — and be arbitrarily granted as concessions — since the duties are not spelt out. The expressed and metaphorical divisions helped the prime minister show off his government’s achievements while suggesting that the human rights hullabaloo is a means to target his party. Or maybe he was just shy: India’s human rights record has declined sharply in the world’s perception.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-17
18-10-2021||Opinion||Armed for life||These days the kitchen sink is where I meditate. Just as I think that I have finished washing all the dishes, I realize that I have not been able to scrape all the tea leaves off the bottom of the teapot, and some of the ones that I had scraped out have got stuck at the sink-hole. So I switch on one more arm to clean the teapot, calmly, mindfully, and another to pick out each tea leaf, slowly, from the sink strainer. With another arm I fill the bottles at the water filter, watching over them fondly. With yet another I feed the cats. With the next, though, I quickly scratch my head. With yet another hand I place an order online for organic cold-pressed virgin coconut oil, and, as always, wonder about the description. The next hand books a cooking gas cylinder. With another I google the coal crisis, because this one is really going to hit us hard, if it happens. Is it a crisis or is it a shortage? What really happens if we do not have electricity? And if we do not have Internet? Which will be worse? We do not know, because both are now equally unimaginable. Then the bell rings, and I want to shoot out another arm to receive the packet from the delivery agent, but I cannot. I have run out of hands. You are sanctioned only ten at a time. What is good enough for a goddess should be good enough for you. And I need one more, preferably two. I have to log into an online meeting that’s on. It is a blessing that you can be virtually present when you are absent, never mind the semantic confusion about “virtual”. So I throw caution to the wind and, despite the rules, summon ten more arms. One arm goes out to fetch the packet from him, two others help me to log in, another brushes my hair, as I will switch on the video for the first few minutes, yet another brandishes the khunti and almost assassinates the fish pieces gyrating in the jhol, yet another mops the floor. The mop, which comes with a handle, looks like a hairy Cyclops, as a friend says. But it is a friendly creature to me. The remaining arms spray disinfectants. The virus can be anywhere. One more arm was required, again, to snatch the iPad away from the teenager who is practising rebellion on it and yet another to kill the mosquito that never stops buzzing around my head. Little demon. Raktabeej. Sometimes I wonder if I had ten arms only to wield mosquito bats. I would then just kill, kill, kill. Meditatively. The pandemic has blurred the lines between work and home. Work is home. I feel extremely grateful to be able to work from the security of my home, but now I also do not know when I am not working. Which is why those extra arms. And I want more. I feel tired also from staring at the screen the whole day. But I realize one thing. The ten arms of the Mother Goddess appear to have a special significance to someone like me, untrained in the ways of the gods. Here I am also reminded of A.K. Ramanujan’s essay, “Repetition in the Mahabharata”, where he reinterprets “dharma” not as a moral principle, but as an idea that illuminates life itself and gives it a structure through repetition. In the epic, a few themes are repeated endlessly through its stories, and they exist simultaneously and point to a grand design. “It is not dharma or right conduct that the Mahabharata seems to teach, but the ‘subtle’ nature of dharma — its infinite subtlety, its incalculable calculus of consequences, its endless delicacy.” The goddess’s ten arms seem to indicate to me another ‘subtle nature’ underlying things. By holding up a conch shell as she rides a lion and pierces the heart of a demon with her trident, she is saying that all the ten weapons and objects she is holding up are equal and simultaneous. She is upholding everything. Durga is someone who goes to the most difficult places. I get a glimpse of that at the kitchen sink. And I do not consider cleaning it any less purifying than reading Ramanujan. Man made that difference.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-17
18-10-2021||Opinion||The dignity of sex workers||Gangubai Kathiawadi, an upcoming biopic, brings the sorry plight of sex workers out into the limelight. The movie is based on the life of a mafia queen who ruled her area, Kamathipura in Mumbai, with an iron fist in the 1960s. The film begins with her suitor selling her into prostitution. Eventually, Gangubai becomes the madam of the brothel and emerges as a formidable mafia queen. In Mafia Queens of Mumbai, S. Hussain Zaidi gives a vivid picture of the matriarch of Kamathipura who protected sex workers. They revered her as mother, calling her Ganguma. Sex work is seldom a chosen profession. In most cases, women are forced into sex work. Saadat Hasan Manto penned the tragic story of a young prostitute in “The Girl from Delhi”. Nasim Akhtar, a victim of Partition, wants to migrate to Pakistan. A pimp takes her to Pakistan. When they reach Pakistan, she wants to lead a pious life and gets married. But the next day, her husband sells her off to Hira Mandi, Lahore’s infamous red-light district. The stories of Gangubai and Nasim Akhtar are not imaginary; they chronicle the painful lives of sex workers who deserve empathy and not revulsion. Article 21 of the Constitution has been interpreted as the right to live with dignity by the Supreme Court. In Maneka Gandhi v. Union of India (1978), the Supreme Court gave a new dimension to Article 21. The court held that the right to live is not merely a physical right but also includes within its ambit the right to live with dignity. Another broad formulation of right to life with dignity is found in Bandhua Mukti Morcha v. Union of India (1997). Characterizing Article 21 as the heart of fundamental rights, the court expanded its interpretation. Justice Bhagwati observed: “It is the fundamental right of everyone in this country... to live with human dignity free from exploitation.” But sex workers have always been denied dignity in India. They are socially stigmatized and legally oppressed. The law itself is ambiguous on prostitution. The primary law dealing with the status of sex workers is the Suppression of Immoral Traffic in Women and Children Act, 1956. According to this law, prostitutes can practise their trade privately but cannot legally solicit customers in public. Organized prostitution — brothels, prostitution rings, pimping and so on — is illegal. As long as it is done individually and voluntarily, a woman (male prostitution is not recognized in any law in India) can use her body in exchange for material benefit. Sex workers are not protected under labour laws. In 1986, the old law was amended as the Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act. In 2009, the Supreme Court ruled that prostitution should be legalized and later constituted a panel to consider amending the law. Sex workers’ rights to profession, occupation and business under Article 19 (1)(g) of the Constitution often clash with society’s hypocritical morality. In 1958, a young sex worker named Husna Bai challenged the SITA in the Allahabad High Court, contending that the legislation infringes upon her fundamental right to occupation. The court held that the State could not deny that prostitution was a trade for the purpose of Article 19 (1)(g) of the Constitution. But in practical terms, the judgment did not offer a remedy to alleviate the woes of sex workers. In July 2021, the Supreme Court said that it would not take an elitist view on the ban on begging and order the removal of all beggars from the street. Until the Indian State succeeds in fulfilling its welfare agenda enshrined in the Directive Principles of State Policy and ensures the right to live with dignity under Article 21, it has no moral authority to ban begging or prostitution. Sex work should be fully legalized and regulated, not only for women but for men and members of the LGBTQ+ community. The State should play the role of a Gangubai Kathiawadi-like figure — a benign protector — and not a Mr Bumble-like persecutor. Faisal C.K. is Under-Secretary (Law) to Government of Kerala||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-17
18-10-2021||Opinion||Monetizing hate||Before the advent of Facebook, the world knew that unhindered human free speech could be deeply problematic when amplified: it did not know that it could be hugely lucrative. The latter finding is what the latest whistleblower is seeking to document and underscore. That the artificial intelligence at the core of Facebook’s decision-making is programmed to stir up baser emotions which, then, get more views and more advertising. Frances Haugen’s assertion seems believable when the company’s revenue figures are scrutinized. The data scientist, who worked in the ‘civic misinformation’ section of the social media platform, has been saying that Facebook adopts the strategies it does because it helps the company make more money, actioning “no more than 3-5 per cent of the hate encountered and about 6-tenths of 1% of V & I [violence and incitement]”. Facebook was founded in 2004. Between 2010 and 2020, its revenue rose from $1,974 million to 61.9 billion, growing consistently year on year. Over 90 per cent of this revenue-generation is from its advertising business. Instagram was responsible for an estimated 28 per cent of all Facebook revenue in 2020. Other social media companies in the billion-dollar league are way behind, with LinkedIn at 8 billion and Twitter at 3.7 billion in 2020. Through the period when its revenues have grown unhindered, there has been constant controversy. There was the Cambridge Analytica scandal in 2017 when it became known that Facebook had allowed its data to be mined for political targeting by a data analytics firm that was behind Donald Trump’s 2016 election campaign and also involved in the European Union referendum. In 2018, the House Intelligence Committee Minority produced evidence regarding interference in US elections. The experience in the United States of America has shown that despite House Intelligence Committee Minority procuring evidence of how the Russian government placing advertisements on Facebook amounted to targeted interference in the 2016 elections and making it publicly available, Facebook did little to make its platform safer for the 2020 presidential election. As John Tye, the attorney of the Facebook whistleblower, Frances Haugen, told The Washington Post, Facebook staff were actually making recommendations during the elections last November, saying a flow of conspiracy theories was happening and needed to be curtailed. Zuckerberg did not agree, he says. Within days of the election, Facebook disbanded its civic responsibility team. Then came the insurrection on Capitol hill on January 6 in the run-up to which “Facebook was letting things happen.” Worrying about the ills of Facebook is for the few, not the many. For the two-billion plus who use it, it is a benign and indispensable platform. But for law-makers, journalists, and internet activists, its consequences can be malign and need to be constrained. Earlier this month, as journalists from crusading news media in Russia and the Philippines were conferred the Nobel Peace Prize, one of them, Maria Ressa, was accusing Facebook of spreading lies “laced with anger and hate”. She also said that Facebook had become the world’s largest distributor of news without facts and “yet it is biased against facts, it is biased against journalism”. As this paper has reported, Ressa has been the target of intense social-media hatred campaigns from the supporters of President Rodrigo Duterte which, she said, was aimed at destroying her and the credibility of her publication, Rappler. Rappler’s reporting included a series of investigative reports on how the government ‘weaponized’ the internet, using bloggers on its payroll. India has been described as Facebook’s biggest market by number of users. Partnering Jio’s platforms, as Mark Zuckerberg has done, makes it even more lucrative. So if it means complying with the Indian government’s intermediary guidelines announced in February this year, the company is happy to play ball. As of July, along with Google and Twitter, the compliance reports have been rolling out: how many users reported problems, how many pieces of data have been actioned proactively by Facebook, and in how many categories. But a country does not gain from such reporting unless the data are mined. How many here have begun doing data journalism that deep dives into those metrics to see what picture emerges? Are users more protected now because 2.6 million pieces of Facebook content have been ‘actioned’ in the category of adult nudity and sexual activity? Or the 324 thousand pieces related to hate speech? Who will zero in on the latter? Doing so would be crucial if we want to force the platform to dial down on hate. Back in 2018, as Zuckerberg testified before Congress, a bunch of US academics offered some disarming advice in The Conversation.com on how Facebook could reinvent itself. It could act like a media company and take responsibility for the content it published and republished. It could deploy both human and artificial intelligence to categorize and label the information on its platform. It could also start competing to provide the most accurate news instead of the most clickworthy. And, finally, if it wanted to keep making money from user data it could also consider paying users for their data — $1,000 a year for the average social media user, perhaps? After the whistleblower’s testimony earlier this month, Mark Zuckerberg was at pains to describe in his response on Facebook how both human and artificial intelligence were indeed being harnessed to scrutinize content and keep users safe. “If we wanted to ignore research, why would we create an industry-leading research program to understand these important issues in the first place?” Frances Haugen has a simple answer to that. To demonstrate concern. Then you disregard the data which emerge if they go against your business interest. As for getting Facebook to pay users for their data which his company monetizes, that is really fanciful thinking. It is also highly unlikely that Facebook will start competing to provide the most accurate news instead of the most click-worthy. That would destroy its business model. The best the world can hope at this point for is pressure on it to skew its algorithms differently. Sevanti Ninan is a media commentator and was the founder-editor of TheHoot.org||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-18
