19-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Free fall||India continues to perform poorly on global indices of progress and inclusion. A week after the Unesco report showing the precarious state of education in India came the 2021 Global Hunger Index wherein India ranked 101st out of 116 countries, far below its neighbours like Pakistan, Nepal and Bangladesh. Juxtaposing this data with the findings of the United Nations’ Food Waste Index Report 2021, which shows that 50 kilogrammes of food is wasted per person per year in India, would reveal a picture of entrenched inequality and shocking indifference. The Centre, as is its wont whenever data emerge to show it in poor light, has questioned the methodology of the GHI and claimed that the ranking does not represent the ground reality. The GHI data on deficiency in calorie intake, however, are sourced from the Food and Agriculture Organization. Had the GHI been estimated using the latest data on calorie intake usually provided by the National Sample Survey Office, things might have looked even worse given that the leaked report of 2019 indicated that consumption expenditure in India declined by 4 per cent between 2011-12 and 2017-18. The figure was worse in rural India, at about 10 per cent per annum. In its efforts to dispute facts, the government also confused undernourishment, which is a measure of the proportion of the population with inadequate access to calories, with undernutrition that is calculated by measuring weight and height — categories where India ranked as poorly. A combination of factors forces an estimated 19 crore Indians to go to bed on an empty stomach in a land that is, ironically, a food-surplus nation. They include poverty, deepening inequality, rising unemployment, agrarian stress aggravated by climate change as well as glaring leakages and corruption in India’s mammoth public distribution system. There are also newer challenges posed by the pandemic. With the closure of schools, mid-day meals were either not delivered or the dry rations for one child were shared by entire families. The National Food Security Act has been criticized for ignoring the instability of food supplies in a country vulnerable to extraneous shocks — the pandemic being one example. Food security must be aligned with not only such issues as production and quality but also people’s rights, diverse diets, environmental protection and political action. But these linkages remain invisible to a short-sighted leadership. India must reimagine policy interventions in light of concerns raised by the GHI, especially against pandemic-induced nutrition insecurity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-17
19-10-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Chennai Super Kings win IPL 2021||Glorious win Sir — The clash between the Chennai Super Kings and the Kolkata Knight Riders in this year’s Indian Premier League final made for a delightful game of cricket (“Dhoni’s Kings are kings again as Knights lose fizz in final chase”, Oct 16). The CSK victory comes after its lacklustre performance last year when it fell to the bottom of the table. The Knights must examine why they lost the match. There was a dramatic batting collapse which went from 91 for no loss in the 11th over to 125 for 8 in the 17th over. This is unacceptable. Hopefully, the KKR will be consistent in its performance next year. Bidyut Kumar Chatterjee, Faridabad Sir — M.S. Dhoni has proved that he is still one of the best cricket captains by leading the CSK to victory in IPL 2021. It is incredible how the team bounced back after a disappointing season last year. The CSK, considered to be the oldest squad overall in terms of average age, performed well throughout the tournament under Dhoni’s leadership. His appointment as a mentor for the men’s national cricket team is indicative of the Board of Control for Cricket in India’s faith in him. Shashank Patil,Ujjain Sir — The CSK must be congratulated for clinching this year’s IPL. This is the team’s fourth victory after 2010, 2011 and 2018. The team, under the captaincy of M.S. Dhoni, performed consistently throughout the tournament. It was a well-deserved win. Sourish Misra,Calcutta False narrative Sir — The claim of the defence minister, Rajnath Singh, that the saffron icon, V.D. Savarkar, submitted mercy petitions to the British at the behest of Mahatma Gandhi is factually incorrect. Savarkar filed his first mercy petition in 1911 and another in 1913 while Gandhi was still in South Africa. It was not until 1920 that Gandhi advised Savarkar’s younger brother, Narayan Damodar Savarkar, to file a petition on the ground that the former’s offence was purely political. This event is now being twisted by the sangh parivar for its benefit. The bone of contention is not the petitions themselves but Savarkar’s pledge of allegiance to the British in return for his release from prison. By celebrating Savarkar, the Bharatiya Janata Party does an immense disservice to the countless Indians who laid down their lives during the struggle for freedom. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — It cannot be denied that V.D. Savarkar has left behind a questionable legacy. It is unfortunate that the sangh parivar is twisting facts to suit its narrative. Mrinal Baruah,Guwahati Sir — Even if one were to acknowledge V.D. Savarkar — BJP’s only claim to the freedom struggle — as a freedom fighter, his ideology is corrosive. Vaibhav Patil,Calcutta  Bald is beautiful Sir — At a certain age, most men and a few women begin to look at themselves in the mirror the way the world looked at Afghanistan after the Taliban took over — with mounting anxiety about what is going to happen next. Scrutiny soon confirms their worst fears — they are going bald. Yet, the world responds differently to balding men and women. One of the reasons that hair thinning and loss in women remains taboo is that it is not talked about. If women admitted to it more often and more openly, this could change. Shalini Das,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-17
19-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: In charge||Two signals emerged from the recent meeting of the Congress Working Committee. The first being that the Gandhis are by no means in a mood to yield ground to the dissenters. This is just as well since many of the leaders of the contrarian constituency — the so-called Group of 23 — that allegedly sees things differently do not wield clout or evoke confidence among dedicated Congress supporters or, indeed, India’s voters. The Congress’s rejuvenation is unlikely to begin at their hands. They would, deliberations at the CWC meeting indicate, have to be content with the concession of internal elections. By swatting away charges of indecision and absenteeism — Sonia Gandhi declared that she is a “full-time, hands-on” leader — the party president reiterated that the reins of power remain secure in her able hands. The second, equally important, signal is Ms Gandhi’s endorsement — for now — of the existing dual power arrangement. At present, even though Ms Gandhi holds office, key organizational decisions are being taken by her son, Rahul Gandhi, the former Congress president. Be it Navjot Singh Sidhu’s elevation at the expense of the old war horse, Amarinder Singh, the induction of Kanhaiya Kumar or Priyanka Gandhi Vadra leading the charge in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, Mr Gandhi’s stamp of approval continues to be clear. Ms Gandhi’s nod to these changes is surely a signal to some senior leaders to fall in line. The new party president is expected to take charge by September 2022. It is unlikely to be anyone other than Mr Gandhi. The Congress, a notoriously slow mover, seems to believe that transformations are best ushered in incrementally. It could also be that the Congress’s performance in forthcoming state elections, especially in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Uttarakhand, would influence the passing of the sceptre at the top. The point, however, is whether this waiting period would further dent the Congress’s credibility as the principal face of the Opposition. There has been some jostling for this space within the Opposition: the Trinamul Congress, buoyed by a massive electoral mandate in Bengal, has been eager to project Mamata Banerjee as the real opponent of the Bharatiya Janata Party. Mr Gandhi, who has a decisive say in most matters, should take charge at the earliest. That would energize not only the Congress rank and file but also ensure better coordination with Opposition parties before the big test in 2024.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-17
19-10-2021||Opinion||When power does not empower||This Vijaya Dashami, the prime minister, Narendra Modi, said his government aims to make India the strongest military power globally on its own strength. In the preceding weeks, two reports and data sets contrasted our masculine brouhaha with what might perhaps need priority over weaponizing India. One, we slipped several notches — occupying 101st position on a list of 116 nations with sufficient data points — in the 2021 Global Hunger Index. Even Pakistan and Bangladesh are better off than India on the GHI. While the report mentions we made significant if slow progress over the last two decades in reducing hunger and malnutrition, with a score of 27.5, hunger in India remains a serious concern, with a complex set of factors, including disruptions caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, at play. Within this data set, children are hugely vulnerable. For instance, while child stunting decreased from 54.2 per cent in 1998-1999 to 34.7 per cent in 2016-2018, it is still very high. At 17.3 per cent, we have the highest child wasting rate of all countries covered in the GHI. This rate is slightly higher than it was in 1998-1999, when it was 17.1 per cent. These figures have implications. As for the second report, Unesco released its State of the Education Report for India 2021: “No Teacher, No Class”, which bares the horrific reality of schooling, pedagogy and teachers, particularly in rural India. Over a lakh or nearly 7.5 per cent of all schools are single-teacher ones; 89 per cent of those are in rural India, and both pupils and teachers have pathetic conditions to sit through in these schools. Therefore, even if we become a strong military power in, say, ten years, we shall also have large young populations that grew stunted and perhaps with minds that won’t comprehend life’s multiple challenges. This is because they remained malnourished and suffered because they went to school sans quality education. In 2020 and 2021, schools worked virtually as Covid-19 hit us and have only now begun to open for physical classes. But across tribal areas, the residential ashram shalas saw huge dropouts. Tribal students have not only lost out on education but also on critical nutrition that is at the heart of the process. In Maharashtra, Karnataka, Telangana, Odisha, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh, stories abound of problems tribal children faced in accessing education, physically or through online means, in these two years. As the GHI explains, the stunted growth and child wasting rates are a mix of many factors, including lack of access to healthcare, nutrition and education. Particularly in rural areas, they are intertwined. At the core of ensuring nutrition, access to healthcare and education in villages is the grassroots teacher, the anganwadi worker or the accredited social health activist aka Asha, all of whom are not only contractual but also work in highly exploitative conditions. They earn meagre wages. The Unesco report rightly calls for improving teachers’ working conditions and building their capacities. In 15 years, a third of the current teachers will need to be replaced, the Unesco report says. Today, teachers are in a deficit of over a million at the current student strength. There is an urgency to make big investments in these sectors, improve quality, accountability and governance. The pandemic has driven home the important role teachers or Asha and anganwadi workers play in rural areas not just in imparting formal learning but also in ensuring that the children receive and eat at least one meal a day and in early healthcare. India might become a military powerhouse if the prime minister so desires, but our future won’t be secure if the next generations don’t grow healthy and wise.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-17
19-10-2021||Opinion||Taiwan and the Indo-Pacific||Amidst an all-out confrontation between the United States of America and China, Taiwan is fast emerging as a critical fault-line. The delicate balancing act that the US had long maintained on the issue is increasingly becoming difficult to sustain. The Indo-Pacific is witnessing a power transition unlike any witnessed in the recent past and its implications are being felt far and wide. As China becomes bellicose and aggressive and as the US with its regional partners is undertaking a strong pushback, the pressure on the regional environment is rising with no institutional mechanisms available to mediate tensions and conflicts. The scale and the speed of transition are seemingly much faster than the ability of regional actors to manage the externalities generated by the process that are mostly negative. Recent weeks have seen strong signalling from all sides. After the Chinese president, Xi Jinping, warned that “reunification” with Taiwan “must be fulfilled”, Taiwan’s president, Tsai Ing-wen, defiantly made it clear on Taiwan’s National Day that the nation would not bow to pressure from China and would defend its democratic way of life. Tsai, whose defiance of Beijing has made her immensely popular at home, has pitched her nation as one “standing on democracy’s first line of defence”. She has effectively linked that fate of Taiwan with the future of peace and democracy in Asia. Beijing has been upping the ante on the question, trying to test Taiwanese defences as well as the red lines of the US. A record number of Chinese warplanes, including J-16 fighters and 12 H-6 bombers with nuclear capabilities, have been repeatedly entering Taiwanese air defence zone. Much like in other parts of the region, Beijing is seeking to unilaterally alter the status quo away from peace and stability even as there are renewed worries in China that Taiwan’s government is inching towards a formal declaration of independence. Heightened military manoeuvres are China’s way of warning Taiwan and its supporters that Beijing remains prepared for military action. Compared to any other time in recent decades, Taiwan today is viewed more positively in the international community, especially when compared to the loss of prestige China has seen in recent years. There are growing concerns about the future of Taiwan as Beijing’s aggressive display of military might is becoming more explicit by the day. Amidst this deteriorating environment, Xi Jinping and the US president, Joe Biden, reached out to each other and agreed to abide by the ‘Taiwan agreement’. Although this means that Washington will continue to persist with its longstanding ‘One China’ policy under which it recognizes China rather than Taiwan, it also entails the US continuing to supply weapons to Taiwan to defend itself as part of Washington’s Taiwan Relations Act. That the US has no intention of giving up on Taiwan was also made clear by the US national security adviser, Jake Sullivan, who suggested recently that the US will “stand up and speak out” over any actions that may “undermine peace and stability” across the Taiwan Strait. Relations between the US and China are being shaped by their burgeoning strategic rivalry. Even basic diplomatic engagement is becoming difficult to accomplish. Biden reportedly asked Xi for a face-to-face meeting but the Chinese president has remained non-committal, asking instead that the tone and tenor of the relationship improve first. Washington has doubled down on its Indo-Pacific policy with two leaders’-level summit of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue — the Quad — within six months and the announcement of the tripartite Aukus pact. For the US, these are all aimed at ensuring “that we have an open, free, interconnected and inclusive Indo Pacific”; for Beijing, this is all about containing China. Taiwan is an important test case for both the US and China. It is about America’s credibility in the Indo-Pacific in the aftermath of its withdrawal from Afghanistan. And it is about China’s age-old ambition of national reunification and Xi Jinping’s project of national rejuvenation. For Taipei, this is about preserving its democratic values and way of life. These cross-currents of history and contemporary strategic trends are shaping the actions and the counter-actions of the major actors in this unfolding drama. The implications can be potentially very serious not only for the region but also for the evolving global order. Harsh V. Pant is Professor of International Relations, King’s College London||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-17
19-10-2021||Opinion||Bumpy road ahead||The International Monetary Fund revealed its outlook for the world economy last week. A year and a half after the pandemic, global recovery remained reassuringly strong: the world economy is expected to grow a tad slower (10 basis points) this year at 5.9 per cent and at an unchanged pace — 4.9 per cent — next year. But the exit from the pandemic, cautions the IMF, is not unqualified. There are significant concerns, including strong inflationary pressures, raised unemployment, and more uncertainty than seen before. The recovery is also divergent because the initial differences due to vaccine access and quick, generous policy support have accentuated the divide between the high-income economies and the emerging, developing ones. In the forthcoming years, lasting injuries to the latter group are seen to be severest for Asian economies, barring China. The global picture is, thus, both encouraging and sobering; principally because all risks bear down than upwards as well as significant economic scarring from the pandemic. For India, the IMF retained its 9.5 per cent real GDP growth forecast for the current year, followed by 8.5 per cent growth in 2022-23. This is similar to that projected by the Reserve Bank of India, which reviewed its monetary policy a week before the IMF’s October World Economic Outlook. The outlook on inflation is directionally similar too. While the central bank sharply lowered its annual inflation forecast to 5.3 per cent from 5.7 per cent in August, the IMF sees it declining to 5.6 per cent followed by 4.9 per cent next year. The upholding of growth predictions by these two institutions come amidst a steady build-up of optimism in recent weeks. Significant contributors to the elated economic expectations have been the sale of Air India, the ailing public airline, which has bolstered hopes of more successful sales of public entities in the pipeline; the revision of India’s rating outlook to stable from the negative ranking earlier by rating agency, Moody’s; the uptrend in most lead economic indicators; improvements in business and consumer sentiments, albeit from abysmally low levels; robust tax collections, amongst others. Inflation anxiety also seems to be moderating compared to elevated fears a quarter ago. The highlight of India’s placement as the world’s fastest growing economy in the IMF’s individual country forecasts even overlooks that this is from one of the world’s deepest plunges last year. Are there reasons to be tentative? Will the economic rebound maintain its strength and the momentum gathered forge ahead? There is valid concern that real incomes could be dented by the upsurge in prices. For the rebound isn’t strong enough for consumption to remain unaffected. A 9.5 per cent growth will only be 1.6 per cent above the 2019-20 income level. The quarterly rebound in June was 20 per cent on annual basis, 9 per cent and 4 per cent, respectively, below the corresponding quarters of 2019 and 2018. This reveals the depth of the lost ground that is to be recovered and to be built upon. GDP growth has to be stronger and for longer to return to square up and rise further therefrom. It is a challenge with increasing prices chipping away at the income gains. It is even harder when the biggest GDP component, private final consumption, has been more severely squeezed. In April-June 2021, real aggregate consumption was an alarming 12 per cent lower than its two-year ago level (April-June, 2019) and -5.2 per cent less than that of April-June 2018. Even if aggregate consumption grew at the same pace as full-year GDP growth forecast (9.5 per cent), the restoration would still be -0.5 per cent lower than the total consumer expenditure in 2019-20. If higher price levels and unabated increases depress consumer spending in this while, the process could get stretched. Especially as fuel prices are soaring —about 18 per cent of final consumer expenditure was upon transport before the pandemic, whose long run has increased preference for personal mobility and, possibly, skewed fuel demand. The necessity of this spending could cost consumption of other goods and services. The other fallout is the building burden of higher input costs upon producers; weak demand has so far held them back from these being passed on to final prices but the margins are being compressed. The ebullience also needs to recognize that post-pandemic regains are uneven for individuals as well as firms, something not immediately visible in aggregate income growth. Listed companies, for example, have done very well; their inner financial strengths have been handsomely bolstered by lower interest costs (monetary policy support). But little is officially known about the informal, small and medium businesses. Or the four-fifths of India’s workforce engaged in informal, low-skilled, low-paying occupations that are mostly in the more-severely affected services such as travel, hotels and restaurants. There are visible signs and reports that the economic gains are unequally distributed — subdued two-wheeler sales against stronger ones for cars, sports utility and luxury vehicles; the pending return of unemployment to pre-pandemic levels; higher sales of upscale brands of durable goods, smartphones in the Navratri sales, amongst others. Such effects, or the scarring, will linger for longer. That raises the additional question of the strength of the lift-off from the peak recovery this year. Forces bearing down upon consumption are serious and several. Minus a reassuring, strong pick-up, a restoration of private investment is hard to see. Exports are expected to do some heavy lifting; seeing their robust performance this half-year, the government is going all out to help. The IMF expects world trade volumes (goods and services) to grow 9.7 per cent in 2021 after a -8.2 per cent fall last year; a 6.7 per cent performance is expected next year. Here, the dependency upon world trade in which recovering economies all over the globe are contributing remains to be tested. It may be more prudent to qualify growth optimism in this light. Expectations may be borne out in the near-term because of the past repression of demand and the festive season, which traditionally sees a rise in consumer spending. The ground realities may surface thereafter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-17
