20-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Novel approach||Credit must be given where it is due. In an innovative move, the Centre’s apex farm research body, the Indian Council of Agricultural Research, has devised a scheme to encourage farmers to adopt sustainable farm practices by awarding them carbon credits. These can be traded with emissions-heavy industries, providing farmers with an alternative revenue stream. The primary objectives are to arrest biomass burning and encourage crop diversification. This timely intervention could also help reduce air pollution in the national capital region — smoke from stubble burning can account for as much as 42 per cent of air pollution in the area in winter. But while the move is well-intentioned, it needs to be backed with extensive support. Stubble burning has been a persistent problem in India. Legal deterrents — burning crop residue was banned in states like Rajasthan, Haryana and Punjab by the National Green Tribunal in 2015 and, last year, a new commission was set up to enforce a punitive ordinance — have not been effective. Neither has distribution of subsidized, even free, farming equipment. Thus, simply adding the promise of another financial reward to the years-old carrot-and-stick approach may not suffice. A methodical outlook is key. For many farmers, stubble burning is a traditional exercise. It is important to sensitize this constituency on the adverse impact of the practice on soil fertility — an issue that affects their livelihoods directly — rather than harping on the risk of air pollution in the capital. For others, it is a convenient way of stubble disposal before the new sowing season. Accessible technological solutions — for instance, the use of bio-decomposers — could make a difference in this context. Further, greater investment in subsidies is necessary to offset plummeting farming income — a recent study found that most small and marginal agricultural households now depend on wage work to cope with financial distress. An innovative solution like carbon credits seems promising — diverting private capital to support farmers through trading platforms could help tackle the paucity of funds in the sector. But it must be instituted in an equitable manner so as to include sharecroppers and small farmers. Oversight and regulated exchange rates could ensure that carbon credit trading does not become yet another way in which marginal farmers are exploited. The government should also focus on long-term solutions — investment in infrastructure to convert crop residue into biofuel could be profitable for a country with a robust agricultural sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-16
20-10-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Violence on minorities in Bangladesh||Stand together Sir — The volatile situation in Bangladesh following the vandalization of temples and Durga Puja pandals — at least six people have been killed in communal violence so far — is unfortunate (“BJP fishes in Bangla waters”, Oct 18). The rising attacks on the minority community in the nation must be condemned unequivocally. But, for an Indian, it is shameful that political leaders in this country are trying to milk such incidents for electoral benefits. The Bharatiya Janata Party leader, Suvendu Adhikari, has even declared that his party will win the Santipur elections by three times the margin by which it won last time on account of the attacks in Bangladesh. Did the BJP need to stoop this low? Deepjyoti Sinha,Calcutta Sir — The vandalization of temples and Durga Puja pandals in Bangladesh by unidentified miscreants has raised concerns in India. Bangladesh is a secular country. People have always celebrated festivals like Durga Puja together. It is unfortunate that some are trying to disrupt this tradition. The situation is likely to deteriorate further if there is truth to the alleged call by local extremist outfits to mount such attacks. M.R. Jayanthy,Mumbai Sir — The recent incidents in Bangladesh are disturbing. Some bigoted people have targeted the peace not only in Bangladesh but also in India to fragment society along religious lines. But people who fan communal hatred cannot have a place in any religion. They are just miscreants. Their activities serve only vested interests who would try to win votes from the majority community by fomenting the issue at the time of elections. Raghunath Pramanik,Howrah Against all odds Sir — Journalism is often confronted with threats from autocratic regimes. As such, it is significant that Maria Ressa of the Philippines and Dmitry Muratov of Russia have been awarded the Nobel Peace Prize 2021 for their efforts to safeguard freedom of expression, which is the bedrock of democracy (“Truth triumphs”, Oct 13). That this honour has been bestowed upon the fourth estate for the first time since 1935 is a grim reminder of the rising trend of autocratic and divisive forces. Another problem facing journalism is the excess of information, especially on social media. This has led to a proliferation of unreliable information and the neglect of traditional media which usually go through several checks and balances to report the truth. At such times, the acknowledgement of the courage of journalists is particularly encouraging. Vijay Singh Adhikari,Nainital, Uttarakhand Sir — The Nobel committee’s decision to honour two independent journalists is praiseworthy. This highlights the importance of press freedom and acknowledges the bravery of journalists who speak up against the ruling regimes of their respective countries. In the 120-year history of the prize, this is only the third time that journalists have been honoured. Journalists across the world must take pride in this. There could not have been a better time to honour the work of the fraternity of journalists. This will boost the morale of those working under the most difficult circumstances. Ramesh G. Jethwani,Bangalore Sir — This year’s Nobel Peace prize is meant to send an unequivocal message to people around the world about the way to keep democracy alive — by ensuring the freedom of the press. Sneha Singh,Calcutta Fading charm Sir — October used to be the month which ushered in winter. The fog or the nip in the air made one feel that winter is not far away. The October I knew and cherished as a child feels like a stranger this year. With temperatures soaring above 37 degrees Celsius in this part of the country, something seems lost from what used to be my favourite month. We cannot be oblivious to the changes that global warming is bringing not only to the climate but also in our lives. Perhaps it is not too late to revive October’s former charm. Swift action must be taken to check climate change. Noopur Baruah,Tezpur  Move on Sir — How often has the tattooed name of a former partner aggravated the pain of heartbreak or a youthful decision to get inked been an impediment to a corporate promotion? A company based in New York is now gaining attention for freeing the act of getting a tattoo from the scope of retrospective regret — it has engineered a body ink that disappears in 15 months or less. This, many would argue, defeats the purpose of this style of body art — a tattoo usually reflects a lifelong commitment to an idea. But perhaps this captures the temperament of a generation that is ever ready to ‘move on’? Raina Chowdhury,Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-16
20-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Evil fire||Shahbag Square in Dhaka is roaring, once again. The spontaneous demonstration by thousands of people cutting across religious lines against the spate of vandalism targeting Hindus in Bangladesh during the Durga Puja on alleged charges of blasphemy is reassuring. It goes to show that unlike some of its bigger neighbours, Bangladesh’s civil society has the spine to take on the mischief of fundamentalist forces consistently. The prime minister, Sheikh Hasina Wajed, who recently stated that India should remain vigilant so as to ensure that religion is not used to divide citizens, must use this public momentum to crack down against the perpetrators. Ms Wajed’s government has arrested several miscreants and deployed the Border Guard Bangladesh  in as many as 22 districts after violence and vandalism shattered the peace in several places in the Chittagong range. Yet, sporadic cases of communal tensions continue to be reported. For instance, minority-owned temples and shops bore the brunt of vandalism in Feni on Saturday. Ms Wajed must ensure that such events are not repeated. The administration must get to the root of the crisis to identify the shadowy patrons and then punish these instigators. There are two compelling reasons for this. First, Bangladesh, which has taken giant economic strides and, consequently, progressed on social indicators in recent times, should not fritter away these gains to predatorial majoritarianism. Second, a tepid response would encourage rabid Islamist forces that have a history of unleashing unrest in that country. The Narendra Modi government, while expressing concern, has also been appreciative of the steps taken by Ms Wajed to control the situation. Strangely, leaders of the Bengal unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party remain unconvinced unlike their bosses in Delhi. A prominent state party leader met the Bangladesh envoy in a bid to rake up the issue. The intentions are clear. The BJP would like to milk the disturbances in Bangladesh for electoral benefit in the upcoming by-elections in Bengal. After all, polarization has yielded rich dividends to the party in electoral contests. Bengal, admittedly, rebuffed this strategy of the BJP during the assembly elections. Those who resisted the BJP’s divisive policy — civil society activists, students, political opponents and an overwhelming number of ordinary citizens — must continue to be on guard on this side of Bengal and douse efforts to kindle communal flames. Eternal vigilance is the price for not only sustaining liberty but also snuffing out religious discord.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-16
20-10-2021||Opinion||Flow with the times: The Farakka water treaty||Five-sixth of the time has elapsed for the treaty between Bangladesh and India on sharing of the waters of the Ganges at Farakka. It will expire on December 12, 2026. The treaty was necessitated by the commissioning of the Farakka barrage in 1975 to divert water from the Ganges to the moribund Hooghly, ostensibly to maintain the navigability of the Calcutta port. Bangladesh and India have had differences over the entitlement to water flows ever since. In 1996, the treaty on the sharing of the Ganges waters at Farakka was intended to end the differences between Bangladesh and India. Its principal objective was to determine the amount of water to be released by India. The earlier agreement of 1977 for five years was not significantly different, except for the formula of water-sharing that replaced the absolute flow figures over 10n-day periods between January 1 and May 31 every year. Additionally, the treaty guarantees 35,000 cusecs of water in alternate three 10-day periods to Bangladesh and India during the period of March 11 through to May 10. Interestingly, when the first arrangement was signed on November 5, 1977, the leadership in both the countries was relatively new. The Indian prime minister, Morarji Desai, had been sworn in on March 24, 1977, while Major-General Ziaur Rahman assumed  the Bangladesh presidency a month later. At the time of the signing of the second arrangement on December 12, 1996, the two prime ministers, Sheikh Hasina and H.D. Deve Gowda, had been in office for only six months. Is it a coincidence that unstable governments under tentative leaderships can pull off crucial bilateral arrangements? Or is it that well-meaning, astute diplomats can get their way before political leadership are well-entrenched? Political leadership in the two countries is currently well-entrenched. Will the treaty be renewed by mutual consent, or can we expect an improvement over the current arrangement that is in tune with the advancement in water governance and one that factors in the rapid environmental changes underway? The prevailing political situation may or may not persist over the next five years, but it is time to start thinking of an arrangement beyond 2026. The current arrangement must be allowed to expire. Its imminent expiry presents opportunities for exploring the appropriate mechanisms for governing flows in river basins. There are studies that show that post-treaty (1997-2016), Bangladesh did not receive its guaranteed share during critical dry periods about 65 per cent of the time. In any case, the distribution of waters based on volumetric allocation misses the multidimensionality of flow. In the reductionist perspective, the flow is quantified as the volume of water passing by a specific point per unit of time along that course, Farakka in this case. This approach jeopardizes the ecosystem services offered by the flows in the Ganges. The ecosystem services offered by the flows in the Ganges can be secured if the complexity of river flows is understood as the intricate dynamics of water, energy, biodiversity and sediments, very elegantly described by Professor Jayanta Bandyopadhyay as WEBS. “The synergy of water, energy and sediments are basic and closely related identities of flows and changes in the status of one directly impact on the other two. Their systemic link supports the diverse habitats in the basin and related biodiversity.” Given that biodiversity is a function of flows in rivers, it should form a crucial element for their governance. More so since the two countries are joint custodians of the largest delta in the world. The delta is densely populated but unique owing to its biodiversity and adversely impacted by global climate change. To sustain the various habitats for biodiversity that provide sustenance to a multitude, Bangladesh and India must make an effort to understand what flows are, what they have been doing over the geological past and what is likely in the rapidly changing world, and reflect that understanding in the future arrangement between the two countries. Bangladesh and India should start exploring a basin-wide agreement to secure the Sunderbans and everything else upstream rather than concluding water-sharing treaties/agreements for all common rivers in line with the Article – IX of the extant treaty. This will be more efficient in terms of time, ecologically sound, and allow participation of all Indian riparian states. Anamitra Anurag Danda is an environmentalist currently serving as Director, Sundarbans Programme, WWF-India and Senior Visiting Fellow, ORF||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-16
20-10-2021||Opinion||Man and myth||I recall the collective gasp of dismay that ricocheted around Islamabad in early February 2004 when A.Q. Khan appeared on television, confessing that he had acted against Pakistan’s interests in proliferating nuclear weapons technology. Reactions in public were, however, muted: Pakistan was then a military dictatorship. A public debunking of an established national icon, which A.Q. Khan then was, is never easy. But General Pervez Musharraf appeared to have put it behind him reasonably effortlessly for he was at the peak of his powers. A major initiative with India had just concluded successfully with Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s visit to Islamabad a month earlier, which had led to the forging of a peace and dialogue process. Musharraf was quite literally the master of all that he surveyed. Khan was pardoned by Musharraf after the confession but we heard, as time went by, that the house arrest he was in was for real, with visitors not allowed at all or very closely monitored, and that both he and his Dutch wife were in depression. In private, many Pakistanis expressed deep anguish but all was quiet otherwise. Similarly, in private conversations, Musharraf’s acolytes would hint at pressures from the United States of America and how, by acting as he did, Musharraf had both saved Khan and also safeguarded Pakistan’s nuclear arsenal and secrets. Certainly by 2005 and 2006, the A.Q. Khan chapter in Pakistan’s history appeared to have been laid to rest. Musharraf had apparently satisfied the Americans that proliferation was a thing of the past. Incidentally, in his autobiography published in 2006, he had said about the past proliferation that “the show was completely and entirely AQ’s and he did it all for money.” This was obviously not wholly true and the more discerning suggested that A.Q. Khan had acted with the full backing of the military and the Pakistan State in dealings with North Korea and Iran. But towards the end of the 1990s, he had also done some freelancing, possibly for personal gain, using the proliferation networks set up earlier by manipulating such internal safeguards that may have existed and using the cloak of secrecy that surrounded Pakistan’s nuclear bomb. Old heroes are never forgotten and Musharraf’s star was ebbing by 2007. Anti-American sentiment was widespread in Pakistan and democratic politicians on the comeback trail found the A.Q. Khan saga another stick to lampoon the military with. That he was made to fall on his sword was something heard frequently. After Musharraf’s exit, A.Q. Khan negotiated a new deal whereby he could move around more freely but agreed to keep mum on nuclear-related issues. There is a deep-rooted belief in Pakistan that the US’s ultimate aim is to defang Pakistan of its nuclear weapons and the protective cloak of public opinion, more than anything else, now draped itself around A.Q. Khan. He recanted his earlier confession claiming, “I saved the country for the first time when I made Pakistan a nuclear nation and saved it again when I confessed and took the whole blame on myself.” There were many takers for this in Pakistan. When I returned to Pakistan in mid-2013, A.Q. Khan was frequently in the news. He was often invoked as a hero of Pakistan in public meetings — not in the same league as M.A. Jinnah, of course, but just a few notches below him. Amongst the loony right-wing, he was particularly significant. The glowing obituaries that have come after his death recently are, however, from some of Pakistan’s most enlightened persons and show the quiet support that had always existed for him. He was to be seen occasionally on TV and was also a regular columnist in the national newspapers. These columns were a curious mix. They were preponderantly focused on a life of piety and on how to be a good Muslim but they also brought out his great love for reading. Occasionally, he would mix this with comments about his memories of Bhopal and on Pakistan’s history. I recall one in which he spoke about his life in Bhopal before moving to Pakistan — “In Bhopal we had Muslim ladies ruling for hundreds of years. Though a minority we were not in such a dreadful position.” Another much cited comment was one made during a TV talk show — again about Bhopal, but as he remembered it: “We Bhopalis have never produced a traitor and we have also never produced a Ahmedia.” Even more curious was a long, three-part column on Maulana Abul Kalam Azad based on a 1946 interview but which was published after the creation of Bangladesh. This interview has frequently been denounced by many in Pakistan as never having taken place and a fraud. In the interview itself — A.Q. Khan quoted large chunks in his column — Maulana Azad had given many warnings about the future of Pakistan: “Pakistan, when it comes into existence, will face conflicts of a religious nature”; “despite the role of the Ulema, religion will lose its sheen in Pakistan”; “I feel that it will not be possible for East Pakistan to stay with West Pakistan for any length of time”; “Right from its inception Pakistan will face some very serious problems — incompetent political leadership will pave the way for military dictatorships” and so on. A.Q. Khan resurrecting this otherwise forgotten interview obviously reflected his disillusionment with the state of affairs in Pakistan but it also converged with the general mood then and reinforced perceptions of him as the great leader pointing to present-day drawbacks. A.Q. Khan will remain in the hearts and minds of most Pakistanis as the person who gave Pakistan its ultimate security against India. It is ironic how General Musharraf also contributed to this by seeking to cut Khan down to size. There is no greater aid to mythology-making than of a ‘great man’ wronged in his own lifetime and Khan’s life story followed this script to the full. T.C.A. Raghavan is a former High Commissioner to Pakistan||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-16
