21-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Daily dose||A change is best sensed from everyday happenings. Different regions of India are displaying aspects of religious discrimination as though to leave no doubt that expectations of peaceful coexistence — not always ideal but always possible — can now be jettisoned. Sometimes the government takes the initiative. The legislative committee on backward classes and minorities welfare in Karnataka has asked for detailed information on churches, priests and missionaries in the state. The goal is to discover how many churches are “authorized” and whether illegal conversions are taking place. The Bharatiya Janata Party legislator, who presided over the committee meeting in place of the chairperson, was vocal about his conviction regarding ‘illegal’ conversions because his mother had almost been through one. Non-BJP members of the committee claimed that the order had been given without consulting them. Strong protests from the Christian community, some pointing out that the Christian population has shown no noticeable increase since Independence, have apparently fallen on deaf ears, since the chief minister has promised to strengthen anti-conversion laws. Elsewhere, too, the goal is the systematic destruction of unthinking, everyday coexistence. Right-wing fringe groups, powered by Hindutva believers, can create the appearance of popular protest, as has been happening in Sector 47 of Gurgaon. Although the spot is one of the designated ones for Friday prayers in the open after tensions in 2018, alleged residents are trying to disrupt worship by marching in with banners, loudspeakers and bhajans. That the police are protecting the worshippers from this barefaced display of intolerance has resulted in threats and vilification. It is a contagious sickness. The Hindu religious and charitable endowments department in Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam-ruled Tamil Nadu has advertised for only Hindu applicants to fill teaching and non-teaching posts in one of the four colleges it is opening. This may be a deliberate extension of the regulation for temple employees; in any case, it is blatantly unconstitutional and discriminatory. It could not have been expected of any government department even a few years ago. Now it is politically correct to be frankly discriminatory. Not even advertisements suggesting inclusion can escape outrage, whether it is a clothing brand accused of naming its Diwali collection in terms of all-India celebrations, or a jewellery company showcasing inter-community marriage. India is thriving on daily doses of aggression and hatred.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-16
21-10-2021||Opinion||Letters to the Editor: Sometimes, laughter indeed is the best medicine||Laughter therapy Sir — An organization based in Delhi has come up with a novel way of cheering up patients in hospitals by making them laugh. Known as ‘clownselors’, the volunteers don red noses and colourful wigs in an attempt to reduce the pain and anxiety experienced by patients. Although medical clowning can be therapeutic for both pediatric and adult patients, medical practitioners in India are largely unaware of its benefits. Not only can it help distract from excruciating pain but can aid in reinvigorating those who have lost their will to fight. Sometimes, laughter indeed is the best medicine. Anamika Saha,Calcutta Changing times Sir — The Covid-19 pandemic has made the healthcare industry worldwide realize the need for digitization. In 2018, a report by Econsultancy revealed that only seven per cent of healthcare and pharmaceutical companies had gone digital, compared to 15 per cent of companies in other industries. These numbers have surely changed since the outbreak of the pandemic. There is much to be learnt from existing programmes like the Electronic Health Record in Austria which simplifies the process of accessing health records for medical personnel and patients, making it easier for doctors and hospitals to view the patient’s medical records during treatment through one link. Adoption of such measures can vastly modernize the medical sector. Ranganathan Sivakumar,Chennai Sir — The adoption of digital medical services is the need of the hour. But such measures can only be helpful in countries with high digital penetration. India has a long way to go before such digitized medical services can be properly implemented. Abhra Sengupta,Calcutta Act now Sir — The recently-held meeting of the Congress Working Committee has made it amply clear that the Gandhis will not be relinquishing their hold over the party anytime soon (“In charge”, Oct 19). Sonia Gandhi will remain at the helm of affairs, and Rahul Gandhi, no matter his outward show of reluctance, seems to be in charge of all major organizational decisions. While it is good that there is internal clarity about who will lead the party in the future, it is time that the Congress made its decision public. Regional leaders like Mamata Banerjee, M.K. Stalin and Sharad Pawar are already gearing up for the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. If the Congress delays the announcement any longer, it will erode public confidence in the party even further and cost it the crucial assembly polls in Punjab and Uttar Pradesh. Rahul Gandhi must step up to his role. Bal Govind, Noida Sir — It is unfortunate that Sonia Gandhi did not adequately address concerns about leadership raised by the G-23 leaders at the CWC meeting. The Grand Old Party has instead decided to continue under the interim president till September 2022. The Congress must realize that a year’s delay in announcing the president will only complicate matters. A clear decision would have been beneficial in resolving some of the internal problems which now threaten the party’s performance in the upcoming assembly polls. Rahul Gandhi should stop dragging his feet and take charge immediately. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — The Congress has been plagued by endless internal strife ever since Rahul Gandhi resigned as party president in 2019 after its loss in the Lok Sabha elections. This infighting has decimated the credibility of the party. The Congress may not regain its lost glory anytime soon, but it will still be an important player in the 2024 elections. Rahul Gandhi must pull up his socks if he is serious about defeating the Bharatiya Janata Party in the next Lok Sabha elections. Parikshit Rana,New Delhi Grave situation Sir — It was shocking to read that India is currently ranked at 101 among 116 countries on the Global Hunger Index, far below neighbours like Nepal, Bhutan or Bangladesh (“Free fall”, Oct 19). India was already struggling with malnutrition, stunting and chronic hunger but the fight has been exacerbated by the outbreak of Covid-19. Paradoxically, India also has the dubious distinction of being one of the most obese nations in the world. The primary problem is the unequal distribution and improper storage of food. Every year, thousands of tonnes of rotten foodgrain need to be burnt because of poor storage. Unless the government recognizes the faults inherent in the system, there is no scope for improvement. H.N. Ramakrishna,Bangalore Sir — The Indian government’s dismissal of the findings of the GHI allegedly owing to faulty methodology is not convincing. Although the 2021 Global Hunger Index reported that India falls under ‘serious’ level of hunger at 27.5, the report also concedes that the country has made substantial progress in child nutrition since 2000. If India hopes to progress, it must accept both praise and criticism and take necessary measures to make up for its shortcomings. D.V.G. Sankararao,Nellimarla, Andhra Pradesh||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-16
21-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: New world||Foreign policy is a shape-shifting entity. Its contours respond to transformations in global geo-strategic impulses. It is refreshing to note that India’s current foreign policy establishment remains responsive to external stimuli. This hypothesis is not being made without evidence. In Afghanistan, India has positioned itself firmly on the side of the Anglo-American camp that continues to watch the moves of the rival axis, the troika of China, Russia and Iran. Aligning with the United States of America and the United Kingdom renders diplomatic leverage to New Delhi, but it would be interesting to see how New Delhi recalibrates its traditional ties with Moscow and Tehran. A similar shift seems to be taking place in India’s diplomatic outreach in West Asia. A meeting of the foreign ministers of India, Israel, the United Arab Emirates and the US has led to the conception of a new bloc, much like the Quad that features New Delhi, Washington, Tokyo and Canberra, with the focus being on collaboration in technology, trade, maritime security and data. The ‘western Quad’ is, undoubtedly, a product of sweeping changes. The normalization of ties between Israel and the UAE and Bahrain under the aegis of the Abraham Accords has opened up space for accommodating other nations. New Delhi, which traditionally viewed its West Asia policy through such silos as Iran, Israel and the Sunni nation states in the Gulf, has, for once, moved in quickly. India’s assimilation would, hopefully, deepen existing areas of cooperation in defence technologies with Israel and energy security with the UAE. New areas of cooperation, such as a common agenda to fight climate change and the welfare of Indian citizens overseas, should be included in this converging vision. The flux in West Asia is also a testament to broader changes and new challenges. An increasingly insular — weakened? — US is unwilling to invest itself in both West Asia and the Indo-Pacific. It is, therefore, eager to maintain a footprint in these global theatres of conflict through regional associations featuring nations that share its values. The emergence of Quad and Aukus are indicators of the gradual withdrawal of the US. This is bound to create avenues of cooperation for New Delhi, but India must be mindful of dealing with the evolving platforms on the basis of its own interests without jettisoning older, time-tested partnerships. Bilateralism, evidently, is giving way to multilateral formats. Indian diplomacy must act accordingly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-16
21-10-2021||Opinion||Food for thought: Deficiencies||On August 15, during his Independence Day speech, the prime minister announced the mandatory fortification of rice. Although the Niti Aayog termed it as a “game changer”, it also admitted, “that every second woman is anaemic, every third child is stunted and malnourished and every fifth child is wasted. Further, over 70 per cent of the population consumes less than 50 per cent of the Recommended Dietary Allowance...” Why is it that despite recognizing lack of food as the root cause of the problem, the Centre is focusing on the lack of micronutrients to solve it? What is it that pushes the government to opt for fortification with micronutrients rather than investing in increasing the availability of diverse foods? India is facing another challenge: rising incidences of non-communicable diseases like obesity, diabetes and heart ailments. An important cause of this new epidemic is the aggressive marketing and the rising consumption of ultra-processed foods — usually high in salt, sugar or bad fats. The food industry continues to resist attempts to provide information about its unhealthy content. Two policies — the fortification and the marketing of ultra-processed food — have been brought into question. But vested interests infiltrate most of the discussions on influencing decisions. Yet, there is hardly any discussion on ethics and conflicts of interest among those entrusted with policy development. In 2002, The Wall Street Journal published “Gates Fights Malnutrition With Cheese, Ketchup and Other Fortified Food Items” that brought to light how the Gates Foundation set up the Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition with a grant of $50 million. GAIN, in turn, signed up with major food companies for them to add nutrients like iron, folic acid, and Vitamin A to their food products for poor nations, offer technical assistance to governments and fund public campaigns for the governments to earn ‘Seal of approval’. GAIN was to help with   favourable tax policy and regulatory review. In 2015, Bill Gates and Ratan Tata penned an opinion piece where they recommended fortification as one of the most cost-effective solutions among others. The Food Safety and Standards Authority of India has set up a Food Fortification Resource Centre. As per the FSSAI’s website, it works with GAIN, Nutrition International, the World Food Programme, Tata Trusts, The India Nutrition Initiative and the Food Fortification Initiative. An examination of their partners and donors traced the links of these organizations to the food and the nutrients industry. It is evident that the interests of the food industry prevail. Incidentally, rice fortification with iron could consume 2,600 crore of taxpayers’ money. The FSSAI organized a ‘stakeholders’ meeting held on May 25, 2021, to discuss this policy. Twenty-two out of 28 participants were from the food industry or its associations. Aggressive marketing of unhealthy ultra-processed foods is responsible for their rise in consumption. There is growing evidence that the consumption of ultra-processed foods is associated with the rise in non-communicable disease. But then the food industry has its eye on the bottom-line. A BMJ publication recently suggested that businesses influence the policy on nutrition through narratives like ‘the body needs nutrients’ as well as ‘manipulation of nutrition science’ through the funding of experts. Given the negative impact of unhealthy food on human health, we believe that the food industry should not be partnering with India’s food and nutrition policymaking. In 2011, the Supreme Court observed conflict of interest in FSSAI panels and directed that scientific panels of the FSSAI should include independent experts instead of representatives from the industry. The same principle could be applied when it comes to constituting a group concerning food/nutrition policy development. Changing the narrative from single nutrient to dietary patterns may solve the problems of both under and over nourishment in India. Political will is the need of the hour. Arun Gupta is Convener, Nutrition Advocacy in Public Interest Navdeep Khaira is a nephrologist at Fortis Ludhiana and a member of the Alliance against Conflicts of Interest||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-16
21-10-2021||Opinion||Divine mirror||The evocative idol of Durga as a refugee being transported in a truck together with her children and her belongings is a far cry from Goddess Durga, all-powerful, astride a lion. But this is precisely how Barisha Club in a Calcutta suburb chose to represent her this year during Durga Puja. In a massive installation, ostensibly re-creating a scene at the Indo-Bangladesh border, the club depicted a hapless Durga and her family in no-man’s land. They were scantily clad, clearly having scrambled to put themselves and their meagre possessions into the back of a truck. One of these possessions was a tiny idol of Durga and her children, their last refuge when all else was seemingly lost. Perhaps it was to this idol that they prayed to prevent their fate from going the way of countless other ‘doubtful citizens’ whose pictures hung from the makeshift ceiling of their temporary enclosure. On the final day of the festivities, I went to Barisha and was struck by the sheer provocativeness of the concept. In relative silence, I took in an idol that unapologetically defied tradition. Having grown up with staple debates of whether the large, front-facing eyes of the idols sculpted by Mohan Banshi Rudra Pal were preferable to Ramesh Pal’s fierce, downward-facing ones, this was very far off-script. It was not Durga as I knew her. But I knew that this was also Durga as she could be, the mother in our midst holding up a mirror to our collective selves. For far too long, the conspicuous worship of nari shakti during Durga Puja has been in stark contrast to the quiet injustice suffered by women in the country. The child in Kathua, the physiotherapist in Delhi, the farm hand in Hathras, the vet in Hyderabad, the activist in Calcutta, amongst countless other unnamed women, were all brutally raped in the last few years alone. By visually depicting Durga as an ordinary woman in distress, Barisha signifies that we can no longer consistently worship Durga as a goddess while violating the many Durgas in our midst. This is ‘Beti Bachao’ and ‘Kanyashree’ represented together, cutting through our collective hypocrisy in one fell swoop. At Barisha, Durga, however, wasn’t ravaged by rapacious men or boisterous gangs. The pandal itself represented a detention camp, a concept squarely in public consciousness owing to the ongoing process of counting heads for the National Register of Citizens. Her condition, it was suggested, was a consequence of the politics of division — ‘bhaager ma’, the divided mother, as the pandal creators themselves called it. The inauguration of the pandal by the chief minister, Mamata Banerjee, perhaps the nation’s most strident political opponent of the CAA-NRC, and a subsequent award given to it by the West Bengal government only confirmed what the creators of the pandal would have known, or perhaps even desired — that their political depiction would serve party political purposes. Much of this is not new. Growing up in Calcutta in the early 1990s, politics was intrinsically intertwined with the Durga Puja. My immediate neighbourhood Puja was known to be organized by the local CPI(M) dadas who, it was rumoured, used part of the collections to fund their party activities. A little further down the road, the biggest Puja at the time in South Calcutta, Ekdalia Evergreen, was always referred to as ‘Subrata Mukherjee’s thakur (deity)’; Mukherjee then being a leading Congress politician. Further afield, it was widely known that Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose had been president of the Bagbazar Sarbojanin Durga Puja, the grand dame of North Calcutta, while also holding the presidency of the Indian National Congress. This was only the tip of the iceberg — the connections between the freedom movement, particularly Bengali extremists, and the Durga Puja are too numerous to recount. Let us not be under any illusion that the conflation of politics and the Durga Puja is a recent phenomenon. Still, one might arguably make the claim that in Barisha, politicizing the idol itself made political commentary the focal point of the Puja. Entering the pandal, my immediate reflex was not to bow my head and close my eyes in prayer, as I might have in a more traditional setting. Rather, I took in the scene and introspected, as one might at an art installation or any of the other more thought-provoking ‘theme Pujas’ in the city. To me, this wasn’t sacrilege, as some have claimed. Sacrilege assumes a single right way of being and doing things. Neither the Hindu faith nor the Durga Puja has ever subscribed to such a view. Some Durga idols are bedecked in jewellery, others prefer to be in pristine shola; some Asura idols are penitent, others appear vengeful, and while some pandals have Durga and her children huddled together, others give them their own space. Like there is no one way to god, there is no one way to depict god either. Barisha has added to this wondrous palimpsest. The five days of Durga Puja, despite being the highlight of Bengal’s calendar, have never promised an escape from its reality. After all, the most extraordinary pandals emerge at the most ordinary street corners and the same garbage-filled by-lanes that make us squirm are spruced up to become avenues for the goddess to reach her five-day abode. For these five days, dressed in our new clothes, we all try hard to be better versions of ourselves. As the crowds steadily built up at Barisha and it was time to leave, the refugee Durga spoke to me in the same way as a more conventionally maternal Durga might, urging me to try harder. That voice was not the product of my politics, it was the expression of my faith. Arghya Sengupta is Research Director, Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy. Views are personal||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-16
