22-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: First step||If more women contest the elections, it does not mean that they will all become legislators. But to go by the All India Congress Committee general secretary, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, women’s political empowerment may have more to do with access. If they do not win this time, they will win the next time round, seems to be her hope regarding the decision that 40 per cent of the Congress tickets for the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly elections would be given to women. The point would be the larger number of women candidates in the running, something that parties such as the Biju Janata Dal or Trinamul Congress ensured in earlier elections, but seldom the ‘national’ parties. The emphasis on the possibility of women’s empowerment, however, is important in a state known for violence against women. Besides, elections in UP traditionally centre on issues of caste and community; gender is invisible. Ms Vadra’s announcement, alternatively called historic and hypocritical, draws attention to a competing site of conflict and inequality. The issue of access is a pertinent one. A few remarkable women leaders apart, Indian women are scarce in decision-making positions in politics. Parliament at present has 14 per cent women members, and that is the highest percentage since Independence. This is in spite of the fact that the women’s reservation bill, ensuring for them 33 per cent of seats in Parliament and the assemblies, was passed in the Rajya Sabha in 2010 and is still pending in the Lok Sabha. Gender inequality in Indian society is quite frankly reflected in politicians’ reluctance to push through 33 per cent — far from 50 per cent — reservations for women in parliamentary and assembly seats. It is hardly surprising that the World Economic Forum’s Gender Gap Index 2021 ranks India at 140 among 156 countries in the representation of women in the political sphere. Yet the 33 per cent reservation has been carried through in local bodies or panchayati raj institutions. It suggests a desire to contain women’s empowerment at less visible levels. But it is undeniable that in the matter of approach and even local policies, the larger presence of women has made a difference in many places, often in spite of interference from men in the family. Such changes take time, but the first step is certainly access.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-15
22-10-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Priyanka proposes 40% seats for woem in UP||Move forward Sir — It is heartening to know that the Congress general secretary, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, has announced that 40 per cent of seats will be reserved for women in the upcoming Uttar Pradesh polls on the basis of merit and not caste, religion or nepotism (“A radical idea vs realpolitik”, Oct 20). This will go a long way in inspiring women in a country dominated by patriarchy. In a state where the condition of women is far from encouraging, greater representation of women in politics could well lead to a paradigm shift. It could also boost the Congress’s chances of regaining ground against the Yogi Adityanath government. However, true empowerment of women is only possible when their worth is acknowledged in all aspects of life. Janga Bahadur Sunuwar,Jalpaiguri Sir — The decision of the Congress in Uttar Pradesh to give 40 per cent of the total election tickets to women is unprecedented. The announcement has been welcomed by women. It is likely that they will vote for the women candidates fielded by the Congress. In the past, most political parties have exploited women for their selfish political gains. But Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has taken them into confidence and given them a greater chance of participating in the democratic process. This will surely bear fruit. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Sir — Making Priyanka Gandhi Vadra the face of the Congress in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh was a wise decision on the part of the Grand Old Party. Likewise, declaring that 40 per cent of the party’s tickets would go to women is a masterstroke. This could lead to change in politics at the national level. Rajanya Dey,Howrah Sir — Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has indeed taken a bold step. But progressive as it may be, there are chances of it backfiring. She has given women a chance to move forward, but does the political class in New India truly want that? There is another concern. If the Congress truly gives the tickets irrespective of caste and religion, will it really get votes in a state where these issues play a massive role? Abhinava Sarkar,Calcutta Face the fury Sir — From Uttarakhand in the north to Kerala in the south, nature has unleashed its fury. Mankind has irreversibly damaged nature in a mad rush for material profit. Now it cannot escape the consequences of its actions. What is more worrying is that this may be only the beginning of destruction. All construction activities in the hills must be carefully monitored and vetted by experts. Anthony Henriques,Mumbai Sir — Heavy rains in Kerala have caused horrifying flash floods and landslides. Many lives have been claimed, and hundreds have been evacuated. While the government responded quickly, questions arise on the lack of foresight and the failure to implement a long-time strategy to prevent the loss of life and property. Have lessons not been learnt from the devastating floods of previous years? The lack of political will and money power have led to encroachment of flood plains, building of resorts and human settlements on hills and river banks as well as exploitation of ecologically fragile areas. Illegal sand mining — ignoring the Gadgil committee report was a mistake — must also be stopped. Natural disasters in the state have become an annual phenomenon. Is there no end to this peril? The authorities must answer. M. Pradyu,Kannur Darkness within Sir — In a shocking incident, a 17-year-old girl in Karnataka allegedly poisoned four of her family members to death, upset over discrimination in the affection shown between her siblings and her. This is inexcusable. Such jealousy is not uncommon in families with more than one child. The incident demonstrates how resentment can fill young hearts in a way that they fail to differentiate between right and wrong. Parents should look out for warning signs of depression, listen to their children’s fears and take remedial action before it is too late. Kiran Agarwal,Calcutta  Pay attention Sir — Spain’s ‘Crying Room’ initiative must be welcomed as it is a giant step towards removing stigma associated with mental illness. The prejudice against mental illness in society is so deep and malicious that it is often treated like crime. The recent spate of suicides in Spain and India must draw attention towards the scale of the problem. The government must conduct awareness drives to curtail this menace before the crisis takes a more severe shape. Every citizen is entitled to live with dignity and as a society it is our responsibility to create a conducive environment for mental well-being. Kingsukh Som,Gurgaon||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-15
22-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Blank noise||The clash of self-congratulatory cymbals is being heard, once again, as India has crossed the mark of 100 crore administered doses of Covid-19 vaccine. The prime minister has stated that the nation has scripted history and the occasion is being marked by several events, including the unfurling of a khadi tri-colour from the Red Fort. This milestone in India’s inoculation campaign is, indeed, an achievement. The number of administered doses was a paltry 415 million only three months ago and has since gone beyond the 100-crore barrier. This can only mean that the campaign has gained momentum with the removal of bottlenecks in the production of indigenous vaccines as well as greater public receptivity towards vaccination. The Centre’s enthusiasm to mark the achievement is a bit strange though. The battle against the pandemic is a public responsibility of an elected government. There is no need for indulging in conceit especially as India has a long way to go in terms of achieving full immunity. Existing data should temper the brouhaha. The Centre has set itself the target of inoculating all adult Indians by the end of this year. This means that as of Wednesday, 892 million doses need to be given over the remaining 72 days. The worry is that there seems to be a perceptible lag in the pace of vaccination: the daily target to inoculate all adults by December end has risen from 8.9 million in July to 12.3 million. The causes behind this — inertia in the vaccination campaign, pace of production of vials and so on — must be identified and eliminated. Moreover, only 30 per cent of the total eligible population of recipients has received the mandatory two doses while nearly 70 million vulnerable adults are yet to receive even a single dose. Break-through infections are not unknown so the health infrastructure must stay alert for more upsurges in the future. The song and dance unveiled by the government can, clearly, wait. The reason for this pat-on-the-back exercise is clear. Several key assembly elections are on the horizon and the Bharatiya Janata Party is nervous about the outcome in some of these because of its inept handling of the second wave of Covid that had lashed India. The BJP is hoping that a public spectacle could divert attention from its monumental failures on several fronts, including health and economy. It remains to be seen whether the people choose to remain enchanted by diversion or take informed decisions based on a rather sorry reality.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-15
22-10-2021||Opinion||Starved of support||On September 11, 2021, President Ram Nath Kovind laid the foundation stone of the Uttar Pradesh National Law University at Prayagraj. The total number of NLUs in India, including the UPNLU, is 24. These institutions were envisaged as a catalyst to set a new standard of legal education in the country. They have succeeded in this role to some extent. This reflects in the National Institutional Ranking Framework 2021. Six NLUs are among the top 10 institutions in law. However, there are numerous problems that confront these institutions. NLUs get abysmally low grants from their respective states. For the academic year, 2020-21, NLSIU’s funding was cut from Rs 2 crore to 50 lakh. Nalsar, Hyderabad receives state funding of about Rs 3.5-4 crore. However, this is followed by constant pressure to increase domicile reservation to an unacceptable 85 per cent from the current 20 per cent. The government grant for NUJS varies: there was no funding in 2011-12, 2013-14 and 2016-17. In 2015-16, it received Rs 40 lakh. NLU Jodhpur received Rs 50 lakh this academic year. It has since consented to a domicile reservation of 25 per cent, perhaps in the hope of receiving more capital grants. Only GNLU, Gandhinagar and NLU, Delhi are the outliers. GNLU received over Rs 10 crore, including grants from the UGC and other bodies. Similarly, NLUD got approximately Rs 10 crore from the Delhi government. NLUs have to rely on fees and funds collected during such entrance exams as CLAT and AILET. These funds are collected by the CLAT consortium and distributed among NLUs. Low income affects the quality of education. These institutions rely on contractual employment and cannot sustain a permanent faculty. In 2020, NLSIU invited applications for permanent faculty after 12 years. Both issues can be resolved, to some extent, if salaries and allowances are taken care of. In order to be self-sufficient NLUs charge high fees. The fee, approximately, is Rs 2.5 lakh per annum. This leads to the exclusion of students from socially and economically weaker sections. There is also the question of poor infrastructure. MNLU, Mumbai operated from the campus of the Tata Institute of Social Sciences for the first two years and now operates from the Centre for Excellence in Telecom Training and Management. Similarly, MPDNLU, Jabalpur and MNLU, Aurangabad function from campuses of other institutes. Around six NLUs witnessed protests: poor infrastructure formed a significant part of these protests. NLUs also lack disabled-friendly infrastructure and medical aid is substandard. The NLUs were formed to groom professionals with a commitment to social justice, strengthen the Bar and the judiciary, and lift the standards of legal education. There is a need for immediate reforms. However, these would not be possible unless the institutions are provided adequate budgets. State governments must consider allocating greater funds to sustain NLUs and improve their standards of independent research. Instead of opening new NLUs, bettering the quality of the existing institutions should be the priority of governments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-15
22-10-2021||Opinion||Crooked shapes||The term, ‘terraforming’, derived from the Latin, terra (‘earth’ or ‘land’), and formare (to shape or form) has long had currency in the vocabulary of science fiction in the sense of reshaping celestial bodies like planets, asteroids, moons and so on to resemble earth, thus rendering them fit for human habitation. It was coined by the noted science-fiction writer, John Stewart (‘Jack’) Williamson (1908 – 2006), and first used in his longish short story, “Collision Orbit”, published in the July 1942 edition of Astounding Science-Fiction. In “Collision Orbit”, which is credited to Will Stewart (one of Williamson’s pseudonyms), Obania is a terraformed asteroid, and the setting for a near-fatal meteor collision which is averted through the use of antimatter (which Williamson called “contraterrene”) manipulated by the hero of the story, the 60-year-old space engineer, Jim Drake. The word, ‘terraform’ and its variants — terraforming, terraformed, terraformers (referring to engineers who specialize in terraforming) — were eagerly embraced by science-fiction writers and became a staple of what might be called the larger imaginative universe of Sci-Fi. The term passed into actual scientific usage, with the astronomer, Carl Sagan (1934-1996), suggesting, in 1961, that Venus could be terraformed to support human life. In more recent times, the maverick entrepreneur, Elon Musk, has touted the idea of terraforming Mars in order to make human settlement possible on the red planet and transform humanity into a multi-planet species. The fourth chapter of Amitav Ghosh’s recently-published non-fiction book, The Nutmeg’s Curse: Parables for a Planet in Crisis, is titled “Terraforming”; in it Ghosh mixes personal reminiscence with historical accounts of various acts of terraforming, not on some distant planet but here in the world we call home. He begins the chapter by reminding his readers, “Renaming was one of the principal instruments with which colonists erased the prior meanings of conquered landscapes.” Not just renaming, colonists often transformed the very contours of the lands they conquered, depopulating areas that were once home to thriving communities, denuding forests and mountains, killing off local flora and fauna, and, in short, putting their mark on these conquered territories, often in unspeakably brutal ways (usually justified by invoking a god who had given them the ‘right’ to do so). “So many Amerindians perished in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries [as a consequence of European settler colonization] — estimates vary between 70 and 95 percent of the population of the two continents [North and South America] — that vast tracts of land that had once been used to grow food reverted to forest (which is why cities and temple complexes are still being discovered in the jungles of South and Central America).” In Sci-Fi, as in the ideas of scientists like Sagan, and the projected plans of Musk, one cannot help but notice the proliferation of notions that are inextricably linked with attempts to shape parts of our planet into what Ghosh calls “neo-Europes”. The rhetoric of colonization — settling the last frontier, colonizing space, conquering new worlds and so on — looms large over these fictional and real narratives. In almost every case, they embody dreams of remaking the newly discovered or conquered world in the image of one’s own — something that indigenous and so-called primitive people and the spaces they inhabited were subjected to during the long centuries of colonization, a process that has by no means come to an end in our own times. Only now, it is often the newly-anointed political elites, usually with a distinctly authoritarian bent, who are engaged in such terraforming — including the renaming of places, the transformation of spaces, and the removal or relocation of people from certain regions; all in the name of the greater glory of the nation. Recent events in our own country bear testament to such impulses, with the construction of gigantic statues or vast central vistas transforming the landscape; new, properly ‘Hindu’ names being foisted on cities and regions; and many millions of Indians being asked to vacate the lands they have lived on, or farmed, or worshipped, either because they are standing in the way of progress, or because they have not proved to be ‘Indian’ enough. Each such instance may have its own specificities, but taken together they display the same steely resolve manifested by the European colonialists of yore who went about their task of remaking the world in their own image, and to their own satisfaction, to serve very clear ideological purposes. The moral justification for such remaking derived not just from a belief in the divinely-ordained right of the conqueror to carry out such transformation, but also from placing both the land and those who lived on it on a supposedly neutral, scientific scale and finding both land and people insufficiently developed, eligible for transformation, including elimination, if so deemed necessary. Thus, the original inhabitants of regions were often classified as ‘childlike’ or ‘primitive’ or ‘barbaric’ or ‘savage’ before being eliminated or relocated or forced into adapting the manners and mores of their conquerors. In similar fashion, land was often labelled ‘barren’ or ‘unproductive’ or ‘hostile’ to human habitation before being transformed, using a variety of tools and techniques, including the elimination of indigenous species of flora and fauna, the introduction of exotic non-native species, and the actual reshaping of geographical features, through the construction of dams, linking of rivers, and so on and so forth. Examples abound, both of the historical variety — as documented so vividly in The Nutmeg’s Curse — as well as closer to our lives and times, and no useful purpose is served by belabouring the point by citing incidents and instances. We all know what they are. Used in the extended sense, the concept of terraforming, which should include the ways in which the inhabitants of the terra are also formed, can be a useful way of trying to understand how power seeks to perpetuate itself by leaving its seal on the regions and the peoples it brings within its grasp. To see it either as a quaint notion from science fiction, or as a marker of that long-past historical process called settler colonization, will be to miss its potential to identify the ways in which it is still being practised, almost invariably in order to serve narrow economic and political interests. At the local level, such transformation can take the form of, for example, filling up of water-bodies to construct skyscrapers, or the building of energy-wasteful steel and glass buildings in tropical regions, not to speak of the wholesale destruction of traditional, sustainable ways of living in harmony with the earth’s rhythms. At a global level, toxic dumping, wars over fossil fuel-rich lands, wanton destruction of rainforests, unchecked carbon emissions, as also the large-scale migrations set into motion by such acts that we are now witnessing, to cite but a few examples, bear testament that humanity’s attempts to transform the globe can have dire effects. The ongoing global pandemic ought to serve as a grim reminder that we can no longer take the earth’s resources for granted, and that any future plans that are made should take into account those places and peoples who will be most directly affected by the meddlesome ways of the global corporate elite. Not to do so is a recipe for imminent disaster. Samantak Das is professor of Comparative Literature and pro-vice-chancellor, Jadavpur University. Views expressed are personal||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-15
