23-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Room with a view||Men don’t cry. Neither do women, if crying lays bare their innermost fears and pains amid society. The world, especially the West, seems fairly convinced about this, although public weeping by women in the case of death is allowed in many cultures — the lack of tears may then become a problem. There are also ceremonial structures to mourn the dead with wailing and prayers. But grieving a death is different from weeping in anxiety and fear, or crying for help when teetering on the edge of a mental abyss. Society is still disconcerted by the public airing of mental health issues, even though suicides of both the young and the elderly have become one of the biggest causes of death in more than one country. The Spanish government’s decision to open a ‘crying room’ in the middle of Madrid to make mental health a visible issue is a reassuring move in this context. The Spanish prime minister also announced a 100-million euro package for a mental health drive and the opening of a 24-hour suicide hotline on World Mental Health Day. Men and women can come to cry, or ask for help through the numbers listed for mental health experts at the telephone stationed there. The name is a defiant reversal of the Spanish saying that sends people with problems to go cry in the ‘crying room’ instead of making their anxieties and fears public. Nothing could better emphasize the hollowness of the stigma attached to mental health problems. The invitation at the entrance to come and cry, with another motto suggesting that anxieties are shared by many, break down gendered notions through the open acknowledgment of the universality of unhappiness and mental fragility. The traditional expectation of stiff-upper-lipped men is of great disadvantage to the mental health profession. Spain’s crying room is for everybody. This is particularly apt in and after the pandemic — there are thousands of men, women and children who need to cry, whose terrors and anxieties need to be palliated, who need help to readjust in a society ravaged by disease and absences. Deaths of loved ones, tremendous economic stress, acute uncertainty about the future are enough to bring about psychological problems by themselves. This is apart from the exacerbation of existing illnesses — depression being one of the most common. Then again, caregivers of differently abled children or of elderly people needing constant care are themselves at risk mentally with schools closed and no help at home. Spain has set an example, although the crying room is more about removing stigma and bringing mental health issues into public discussion. But it is still a creative effort to build a social safety net around people who desperately need it. In the context of the pandemic, this example can be built upon elsewhere, in smaller localities and village clusters, because societies must relearn ways to connect, protect and hold on.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-15
23-10-2021||Opinion||Letters to the Editor: Time to  start inoculation drive for under-18s ||Baseless Sir — It seems that yet another advertisement has hurt the fragile sensibilities of the Hindu right. A member of parliament from the Bharatiya Janata Party has objected to an ad by the tyre company, CEAT Ltd, featuring Aamir Khan, which points out the problems caused by bursting crackers on the streets by arguing that the company should also address the inconveniences caused by noise emitted during azaan. The MP went so far as to say that the ad has caused “unrest among the Hindus”. This is blatantly untrue and is an attempt by Hindutva forces to stir up trouble. We must promptly speak up to ensure that such statements do not spark off violent altercations. Aproova Singhvi,New Delhi Momentous feat Sir — India has successfully administered one billion Covid vaccine doses. This is a remarkable feat and the Indian government must be congratulated. However, there is a long way to go before the fight is over (“Miles to go as a billion doses done”, Oct 22). Most experts believe that the drive will hit a ceiling at around 75-80 per cent. This is because a substantial number of people are still hesitant to take the shots. The immediate task before the government is to start a dedicated campaign to create awareness among masses to overcome vaccine hesitancy. It is also time for policymakers to start the inoculation drive for those under 18 and arrange booster shots for the most vulnerable. The government must ensure that India does not experience another devastating wave of infections. N. Sadhasiva Reddy,Bangalore Sir — It is impressive that India has administered over 100 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses in 279 days. According to data from the CoWIN portal, 75 per cent of the total population of the country has received a single dose and 31 per cent has been fully vaccinated. Had the gap between two doses — it was set at 84-112 days — been shorter, a higher percentage of people could have been fully inoculated. We must keep up the pace of vaccination. K.V. Seetharamaiah,Bangalore Troubling tendency Sir — The Narcotics Control Bureau seems to be hell-bent on capturing all those potentially guilty of drug use in Bollywood. The furore and publicity generated by the arrests and investigations of celebrities — Ananya Panday is the latest to be summoned by the NCB for questioning — may have captured the attention of the citizens for now, but it is evident to all that Bollywood has become a scapegoat in the Centre’s attempts to divert attention from the political, social and economic troubles that are plaguing the country. It is high time that the Centre focused on addressing the real problems faced by the country. The economy is in utter ruins and the government’s treatment of the agitating farmers as well as its lack of response towards attacks on minorities are matters of concern. The government and its many agencies must redirect their focus on issues of immediate importance. Anwar Saeed,Calcutta Sir — It may be clear to some of us that the summoning of Ananya Panday by the NCB is part of the attempt to shake up Bollywood. But a perfunctory glance at social media will reveal that many believe that this will put an end to the immorality rampant within the film industry, a narrative that cropped up after the death of Sushant Singh Rajput. The magnitude of the loss of rational thinking is truly alarming. Sarmistha Mazumder,Calcutta Parting Shot Sir — The recent deluges in Kerala and Uttarakhand have raised the issue of disaster management, particularly in light of climate change. The National Disaster Management Authority should adapt new methods and technologies if it hopes to successfully deal with such crises. Early detection and preventive measures will be crucial in minimizing loss of lives and property. Rajat Jain,Ujjain||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-15
23-10-2021||Opinion||Why Squid Game topped Halloween searches on Google||Here, there, everywhere When you’re not talking about how you binge-watched Netflix’s Squid Game, you’re probably discussing how to turn it into a Halloween costume this year. The Korean thriller drama has been firmly placed at number one on the Netflix Top 10 list since it was released. It is the first-ever Korean TV series to be number one in the United States of America. It has permeated social media through memes, recipes and more. First off, Netflix is partnering with Walmart to sell Squid Game merchandise online. Sellers on Etsy are also gearing up with Squid Game costumes, masks, cookie cutters and other merchandise. According to Google, Squid Game topped in Halloween searches earlier this month. Amazon, too, is cashing in on the trend with hundreds of products, while TikTok users have been posting videos on how to create the show’s trademark ‘worker’ mask. DIY versions and direct purchase options are also available for a creepy doll that plays a prominent role in the show. There is also a social media challenge — the ‘cookie challenge’ — racking up millions of views on TikTok and Instagram, taking after a Dalgona hard candy, made of sugar and baking soda but shaped like a cookie, that plays a critical role in the show (not to give away spoilers). Earlier last year, there was a Dalgona trend on TikTok that involved a frothy coffee drink with sugar. Race for the stars We can debate all day long over who will win the race to space — Jeff Bezos or Elon Musk. But for now the winner is the 90-year old William Shatner of Star Trek fame who just took his first flight into outer space with Bezos on the latter’s ‘Blue Origin’ spaceship. They were in a tightly packed capsule and the flight was just over 10 minutes long. “This was the voyage of the RSS First Step today,” Blue Origin wrote in a Twitter video description. “Its mission: encounter Earth from incredible views at apogee.” This was the second-ever flight for the Blue Origin and so far Shatner is the oldest person in space. After the rocket returned, Shatner could be seen at an intimate press conference moved to tears, grasping for words. Many late night show hosts took a jab at his loss for words as he cried while Bezos was popping champagne. “You’re looking into blackness, into black ugliness... There is Mother Earth and comfort, and there is — is there death? I don’t know. Is that death? Is that the way death is? It was so moving, this experience.” Shatner was heard saying. His co-passengers included the former Nasa engineer, Chris Boshuizen, the healthcare entrepreneur, Glen de Vries, and Blue Origin’s vice-president of mission and flight operations, Audrey Powers. Bezos himself has been criticized for these space rides, often called the ‘billionaire space race’ — just a fun trip for the ultra rich while his own employees at Amazon continue working in unsuitable conditions in warehouses. Easily done The 3D printing market has been growing remarkably over the last few years across a variety of industries, including health tech, manufacturing, fitness trackers, bridges and even homes. Teaching 3D printing has also begun in STEM classes in schools and colleges with students exploring engineering and design by replicated items such as fossil fuels. A new pop-up at Chelsea Market on the West Side of Manhattan will allow you to do a full 3D body scan and then receive an actual 3D version of yourself. The company, called Dopl, takes a 360 degree image and then creates mini doppelgangers in its Brooklyn lab. The pop-up will be open for another five months. Honda is also partnering with a 3D developer to create a motorcycle based on 3D printed design. Usually the company uses clay models to design the bikes; but it takes a long time. Now, the 3D printer will do most of the work. Last year, BMW also brought its 3D printer at the BMW WorldSBK, a professional racing event. It printed parts for its bikes on the side of the tracks. The parts were quick-release components that could be added on to the bikes easily. And if you think bikes are not cool enough, Relativity Space Inc announced that it has completed the first stage of testing its 3D printed space rocket. It had raised $1.2 billion for this. Apparently its customer wait list includes both Nasa and the US defence department. Crooked minds As if times were not hard enough, some people are monetizing our woes. A group was recently caught after its $400,000 hotel booking scam went bust. New York City has a ‘Covid 19 Hotel Program’ designed to help people quarantine safely inside a hotel during the pandemic. This free programme allows people to quarantine upto 14 days if they meet certain criteria, of which being healthcare workers is one. But four conspirators hatched a scheme to divert some of these rooms into a side business and pocketed cash from customers who, of course, did not meet the criteria. NYC paid the hotels for the rooms, advertised for as low as $150 a week. The ring leader of this operation, Chanette Lewis, booked 28 nights for herself. Lewis’s job was to book quarantine rooms for the city. So she had access to doctor IDs and private medical information and falsified information in the system. It wasn’t until July that the City caught on and launched an investigation. Lewis was charged with wire fraud, conspiracy and identity theft. Footnote A giant Super Mario corn maze in New Jersey has just opened up. It coincided with Mario’s 35th anniversary and the corn mazes that come with Fall and Halloween. It is located at the Happy Day Farm, which conducted customer surveys to pick the Mario theme. It was recently voted as a top 10 corn maze in the country. Five years ago, a 10-acre Mario maze was designed in Chicago next to an apple orchard and pumpkin patch, featuring more Mario characters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-15
23-10-2021||Opinion||Big bother||The report of the States Reorganization Commission, submitted to the Government of India in September 1955, is remembered above all for recommending that provincial boundaries be redrawn on linguistic lines. States such as Karnataka, where I live, came into existence because of the implementation of the SRC report, whereby Kannada-speakers spread across four distinct administrative domains were brought together in a unified province. The SRC had three members: the jurist, S. Fazl Ali (who also acted as chair), the social worker, H.N. Kunzru, and the historian, K.M. Panikkar. In a fascinating note printed as an appendix to the main report, Panikkar suggested that, apart from creating consolidated states of Kannada-speakers, Tamil-speakers, Odia-speakers and so on, the SRC should recommend the break-up of India’s largest state, Uttar Pradesh. As things stood, in terms of population, UP was as large as several other states combined. This gave it a disproportionate influence on national politics which the historian thought had dark portents for the future of Indian unity. In his note, Panikkar argued that it was “essential for the successful working of a federation, that the units should be fairly evenly balanced. Too great a disparity is likely to create not only suspicion and resentment but generate forces likely to undermine the federal structure itself and thereby be a danger to the unity of the country”. Pannikar further remarked: “If one were realistic and took into consideration the manner in which governments functioned all over the world, it would be easy to see that this preponderant influence which would accrue to a very large unit could be abused, and would in any case be resented by all the other constituent units. Modern governments are controlled, to a greater or lesser extent, by party-machines, within which the voting power of a numerically strong group goes a very long way.” Hence, said the historian, the question before the federation was “whether it is desirable to place any unit in a position to exercise an unduly large measure of political influence”. Panikkar’s note was pragmatic as well as prescient. Already, in 1955, the historian from Kerala was arguing that “the consequence of the present imbalance, caused by the denial of the federal principle of equality of units, has been to create feelings of distrust and resentment in all the States outside Uttar Pradesh. Not only in the southern States but also in the Punjab, Bengal and elsewhere the view was generally expressed before the Commission that the present structure of government led to the dominance of Uttar Pradesh in all-India matters.” How could this imbalance be redressed? Panikkar offered the example of Germany in the time of Bismarck, when the state of Prussia, dominant in population and in economic strength, was given less than proportionate representation in the national legislature, so as to reassure smaller populous states that a unified Germany would not be excessively Prussianized. Panikkar could also have mentioned the case of the United States of America, where every state regardless of size has two seats in the Senate, likewise to offset excessive dominance by populous states like California. However, these precedents had been foreclosed by the Indian Constitution, which had made representation in the Lok Sabha proportionate to population. By this principle, in the year 1955, UP accounted for as many as 86 out of 499 MPs (after the creation of Uttarakhand in the year 2000, this has become 80 seats out of 543). In view of the dominant influence of the Lok Sabha on governance and decision-making, Panikkar said that “the only remedy open to us is to reconstitute the overgrown state, in such a manner as to lessen the differences — in short to partition the state. This seems to me an obvious proposition.” He suggested that the state be broken up into two, with the creation of a new “Agra State” consisting of the Meerut, Agra, Rohilkhand and Jhansi divisions. However, while the compelling need to partition Uttar Pradesh was ‘obvious’ to Panikkar, it was less so to the other members of the Commission. And it was still less obvious to the ruling Congress Party, whose prime minister, Jawaharlal Nehru, was from Uttar Pradesh. UP had been an epicentre of the Congress-led freedom struggle and in the year, 1955, the party still massively dominated the politics of the state. An early reader of the report of the SRC was B.R. Ambedkar. He summarized his response in an insightful pamphlet, which was published in the last week of December 1955. Here, Ambedkar quoted approvingly from Panikkar’s note on UP, endorsing his view that “this disparity in the population and power between the States is sure to plague the country.” Ambedkar felt that “to provide a remedy against [the disparity] is most essential”. He proposed that UP become three distinct states, not merely two as suggested by Panikkar. These would have as their capitals Meerut, Kanpur and Allahabad, respectively. Ambedkar’s proposal was also met by an icy silence from the Union government. Five-and-a-half decades after Panikkar and Ambedkar suggested that UP be broken up, a new proposal to that effect was made by Mayawati. In 2011, when she was chief minister of the state, Mayawati had a resolution passed in the assembly urging that the existing state be carved out into four smaller states — to be called Purvanchal, Bundelkhand, Awadh Pradesh and Paschim Pradesh, respectively. The proposal was bitterly opposed within UP by the Samajwadi Party, while the Congress, then in power at the Centre, saw no merit in it either. First made by K.M. Panikkar in 1955, the case for the break-up of Uttar Pradesh remains persuasive. Originally, the argument was principally political, to the effect that that one excessively large unit exercised a hegemonic influence, undermining the collaborative nature of the Indian federation. More recently, the case for dividing UP has been consolidated by the imperative of good governance. UP is clearly too unwieldy, too spread out, and far too populous to be efficiently administered by a single chief minister operating from a single seat of government. On most development indicators, UP ranks very poorly among Indian states. It is backward, economically as well as socially. One reason for this backwardness is that, in recent decades, the political culture of the state has been oriented towards promoting majoritarian pride. A second reason is that the state is extremely patriarchal. But a third reason for UP’s relative backwardness is surely its population size. With more than two hundred million inhabitants, it has more humans within its borders than all but five countries in the world. In February 2017, shortly before the last assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, I published a column in the Hindustan Times stating afresh the case for the break-up of the state. I wrote: “The ‘U’ in UP is said to stand for ‘Uttar’. This is a misnomer, for there are several states of the Union that lie further north of it. What the ‘U’ in UP really stands for is ‘Ungovernable’. And that status will not materially change whoever wins this current Assembly election. For the sick state of UP to become healthy at last, it must first be divided into three or four self-governing parts.” For the good of India, for the good of its own residents, Uttar Pradesh needs to be divided into three, perhaps four, separate and distinct states, each with its own assembly and council of ministers. Tragically, there is little chance of this happening.  For Narendra Modi and his party, the capture and retention of power have always mattered much more than good governance. In the general elections of 2014 and 2019, the Bharatiya Janata Party won 71 and 62 seats from UP, respectively, these playing a critical part in helping it gain an overall majority. The Modi government may hope that its failures in managing the economy and in containing the pandemic will be forgotten by 2024, and that an aggressive Hindutva agenda, based on the construction of the Ram Temple and fears of Muslim demographic expansion, shall polarize Hindu opinion in their favour and, once again, secure to the BJP a majority of the 80 seats in the Lok Sabha from UP. And so an undivided Uttar Pradesh will continue to suffer and stagnate, casting a negative shadow on the rest of the country as well. The future of the state, and of India itself, is currently being held hostage to the political ambitions of one man and his party. ramachandraguha@yahoo.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-15
