24-10-2021||Opinion||Who joined the dots?||And all of a sudden we are offended because the bindis have gone missing. So much outrage, but not for the continuing Covid-19, not for Lakhimpur Kheri, not for Captain’s manoeuvres. And though the same might not be said of the Aryan Khan case, still, so much outrage and all because some bindis went missing. You might call it a hashtag or by some other name, but “No Bindi No Business” assumed a ring of a primeval whoop and war cry. Innocent words once strung together lose innocence, assume new meaning and power. These ones now worked much like Moses’ staff at the Red Sea. And social media parted, though not quite down the middle, into those who wore the bindi to make a statement and those who didn’t but also to pass a certain sort of judgement. Burp Camp 1 was belligerent. The missing bindis of the five models --- one of them a man --- featuring in an ad for an apparel brand’s Diwali collection had threatened their ancient religion. Camp members held that the bindi stood for all things cultural and Hindu, auspicious and aesthetic. There were also claims that it was what completed a woman. One denizen went so far as to say, “A woman’s forehead without bindi is like Mysorepak without ghee or sambar without drumstick”. Digest that. Bindiarchy Others claimed the bindi bestowed spiritual benefits, worked as the third eye, and is a matter of pride, worn with pride. Camp 2 held the bindi impasse as an attack on secularism. But instead of putting forth cogent arguments took out their outrage on the beleaguered dot. Suddenly, in the dot they could see all that they opposed, oligarchy, patriarchy, and for this reason No Bindi — as opposed to No Bindi No Business — became a lesser chant. Other divisions revealed themselves --- South and North, brand and brand. At the end of it all, indeed something was missing from the pre-Diwali sparkle — and it was not the bindi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-14
24-10-2021||Opinion||Letters to the Editor: Next time you squash a spider, think ||Shared lives Sir — The moment we sense the pitter-patter of their eight tiny feet across the living room floor they are likely to end up squashed, poisoned, vacuumed up or simply flushed away from our homes. But why do many of us kill spiders so casually? Humans routinely kill animals when it is convenient — be it for farming or laboratory experiments — but arachnicide is often described in oddly victorious terms. Perhaps next time we try to squash a spider we should consider that we share similar organs and body parts as well as brain chemicals like dopamine and adrenaline. S. Banerjee, Calcutta Links uncoiled Sir — A recent study has revealed that the species, Ophiophagus hannah, aka the king cobra, actually represents four different lineages spread over extensive tracts in parts of India, China and several Southeast Asian countries (“The king is not one but four species”, Oct 18). Long geographic separation causing lineage splitting is common in evolution. But it is intriguing that the species designated as CS1 — inhabiting the Western Ghats — is considered separate and not just a subspecies of CS2 from the Eastern Ghats. CS1 may thus represent a different mode of species formation through the splitting of a peripheral population. The study presents a fascinating view of evolution of land species in a close cluster. Tapes Chandra Lahiri, Calcutta Wrong track Sir — It was worrying to learn that a strict crackdown on cattle smuggling across the Indo-Bangladesh border has resulted in a spike in the smuggling of wildlife. The Border Security Force and forest department officials have also raised concerns that merit greater attention. Foreign species that are seized from smugglers — straw-necked Ibis from Australia was the latest rescue — are already struggling to survive in Indian conditions. What makes it worse is that the guards and forest officials are not trained to recognize the species or their needs. They depend on the internet to determine what to feed the rescued animals. This kind of trial and error leads to fatalities. It is time countries raised a corps of personnel specifically trained in identifying species irrespective of their origin. There is more to stopping illegal trade in wildlife than just nabbing smugglers. Debashis Chatterjee, Calcutta Strained ties Sir — The deferment of a retrospective exhibition of the works of the Dhaka-based artist, Rokeya Sultana, by the Indian Council for Cultural Relations in Delhi is unfortunate. It will lead to unnecessary speculation about this being retaliation for what happened in Bangladesh during Durga Puja. It is in the interest of bilateral relations that the event be rescheduled immediately to quell the apprehensions in the minds of people in both countries. K. Nehru Patnaik, Visakhapatnam Shift focus Sir — The coal shortage in several parts of India is an opportunity to invest in renewable sources of energy. The coal crisis will affect economic activities and probably increase the cost of power production. The only long-term solution, thus, is reduced dependence on fossil fuels to generate power. Somya Agrawal, Ujjain Easily done Sir — Mamata Banerjee should be lauded for allotting land to the Aditya Birla Group within days of receiving its application for setting up a paint manufacturing unit in Kharagpur; this will create many employment opportunities in the state. This sends the message that Banerjee was serious when she invited corporate houses to invest in West Bengal, assuring them that land acquisition will not be a problem and efforts will be made to develop infrastructures conducive to the growth of industries. Arun Gupta, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-14
24-10-2021||Opinion||Book of thoughts ||Contradictions scar life in India. Contrasts mar any satisfaction we may derive from our achievements, our strengths, things we can take pride in. This is a sad truth. It is also an old truth. Can that — the old age of our contradictions — mitigate our sadness over them? Does the fact that the ironic mismatches in our culture enjoy antiquity make them less of a moral dilemma? No. On the contrary, they become all the more glaring, all the more in need of expiation, reform. Mahavira and the Buddha, who knew from their inner lights the ugliness of violence, the vileness of selfish living, taught us new paths to a more balanced life. Nearer our time, Gandhi attempted to do the same. None of them had it easy. Gandhi, showing us the path of ahimsa or non-violence, took violence’s blow on his chest. “It is in the midst of violence that non-violence acquires its deepest meaning.” That quietly stirring sentence comes from the eminent historian of ancient India, Upinder Singh, in her fascinatingly written new book, Ancient India: Culture of Contradictions. The work shows how the contradictions India lives with have been there, right there, amidst us, from — to use that old cliché — time immemorial. And have been a trouble to the sensitive among us, to those who have active consciences, from the same ‘time immemorial’. But not to all. Many more have not been troubled by them. They continue to be untroubled by them — another contradiction. This is a historical verity. She lists, among the contradictions, the following between: i. The ancient celebration, in art and literature, of sensual love or ‘desire’ and the equally old idealization of detachment. What is to be sought — maithuna (sexual intercourse) and Kamasutra, Khajuraho and Konarak, or brahmacharya (celibacy)? ii. The extolling, in scripture, epic tracts and art, of goddesses and of women who have wielded political influence or power on the one hand and the systematic immiseration of women by the male population of India on the other. Who are ‘real’ — Kali, UgraTara, the enraged Kaikeyi, the outraged Draupadi or the Sita-like daughter, wife and daughter-in-law? iii. The holding up of non-violence or ahimsa as a virtue and an ideal and the unceasing presence of appalling violence in our society, accompanied by the valorization of war. Are the battles fought by Rama and by Arjuna, the latter overcoming his doubts on its futility, the true guides for us or is that to be found in the way out of battles and butchery and into a life of balance as taught by Asoka? Are those braveheart patriots who hurled bombs or sent bullets into British officials and were hanged for their acts our real role models or the non-violent, heroic satyagrahis who followed Gandhi in their thousands into jail and suffering? iv. The stubborn presence in our society of inequality from times as old as the Indus Valley Civilization’s cities “sustained”, as Upinder Singh says, “by countless workers who built the structures cleaned the drains and sewers and provided labour and services to keep the cities going”. What is the reality about us — the tacit and complicit acceptance of inequality by victimizer and victim or the refusal to accept this inequality, most strikingly exemplified, in our times, by the vision of Sree Narayana Guru, the ‘Harijan work’ of Gandhi, Babasaheb Ambedkar’s defiant role challenging varna, caste and untouchability and by the Dravidian movement led by Periyar E.V. Ramasamy? v. The simultaneous presence of orthodoxies and accommodations in the faith traditions of India, with intolerance and tolerance, illiberal and liberal sentiments, at concurrent, if not equally-matched, play. Who is the true Hindu — the caste-affirming sanatani or the caste-excoriating Vivekananda? Who is the true Hindu — the Muslim-hating and Christian-baiting fundamentalist or the believer in the same goal of all religions? This book is about ancient and contemporary contradictions in India, about the past and the present, with their shadows extending into the future and, so, turning its pages and seeing its staggering illustrations drawn from museological collections and kitsch art, I could not but think about other contradictions that make life in India so impossibly complicated, frustrating and, for those directly affected, so tormenting. I can straightaway think of five. i. Our national motto, ‘Satyameva Jayate’, drawn from the Mundaka Upanishad, tells us, crisply, categorically, ‘Truth Alone Triumphs’. This is both an affirmation and an assurance. But ask any undertrial in India’s prisons if she or he finds this to be convincing and if she or he believes that truth will triumph. Ask any honest candidate in any of our elections, who has been defeated by white lies, black money and vote-bank politics, especially the religious vote-bank, if truth alone triumphs. Their wordless expression will give you the answer. ii. Our Constitution, under its Article 25, says “all persons are equally entitled to freedom of conscience and the right to freely profess, practice, and propagate religion subject to public order, morality and health.” But ask any Kashmiri Pandit obliged to leave the valley where his or her home is and to start from a painful scratch elsewhere, ask the kin of the honest-to-goodness and trusting teacher and principal of a school in Srinagar shot dead by terrorists in the name of Islam, the grieving relatives of the Sikh auto driver charred to death in his vehicle in the Delhi of 1984, ask the widow of the Australian missionary and mother of their children burnt alive in Orissa in 1999, if they think India treats all religions equally. Ask the Muslim lynched because he is found herding cattle, his co-religionist being beaten black and blue into saying ‘Jai Shri Ram’. Their answer may be, if they can summon wit to aid pain, ‘He Ram’. iii. Our great national song —  “Vande Mataram” — sings upliftingly of su-jalaam, su-phalaam, malayaja-sheetalaam... But are purity, succulence, safety of water, air and environment the reality of life in our cities and towns? Who pollutes the rivers of India, who lets noxious substances into them, who buries toxins in the soils of India? Who is cutting down forests, even road-side trees that are a hundred years old to widen or fatten roads? In whose name and for what cause? If the answer is ‘Development’, then what is being developed, who is growing? iv. Atithi Devo Bhava — The Visitor is God — is not an official proclamation but has been adopted by our tourism department as its unofficial motto. If this is about five-star hotels greeting the paying customer at the foyer with a tilak, then we are being true to it. But who or when or why is a distinction drawn between a visitor and a refugee and, within the category of refugees, between a refugee of one ethnicity and another of a different kind? v. Swachh Bharat is a programme I have welcomed and responded to with gratefulness because goodness knows, as does hygiene, that god and cleanliness, said to be close allies, require such a programme in our country. But how is the country — how are we — responding? By paying a cess, yes. But what about the thingness of it? Is manual scavenging truly over? Is open defecation truly now a thing of the past? They are not. Mainly because caste is not about the past. We litter, we throw, as we always have been doing. We spit and do worse on the soil we say is sacred. Writing to debunk or to extol, to demolish or to justify, is common. Writing to critique one section of society or to ‘take on’ the State is common. Asking society to introspect is not common. And to do so with history as witness is wholly uncommon. Upinder Singh’s new book is about history. But it is also about sociology, policy and, above all, about civilization. Our civilization. It is about us. It is us.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-14
24-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Unbroken spell ||Two weeks before Halloween — a night full of mystery and magic — may not be the best time to incur the wrath of a wizard. But the Christchurch city council in New Zealand has decided to take the risk. The official Wizard of New Zealand, perhaps the only State-appointed magician in the world, has been struck off the public payroll, ending a spell cast 23 years ago. The wizard, who goes by the name, Ian Brackenbury Channell, had been contracted to promote the city through “acts of wizardry”, such as rain dancing during droughts. The reason for his dismissal is suggestive of efforts to transform the image of the metropolis: Christchurch is embarking on a new — promotional — direction to “showcase a vibrant, diverse, modern city that is attractive to residents, domestic and international visitors, new businesses, and skilled migrant workers”. A wizard, the city council seems to think, will stick out like a sore thumb in this tryst with modernity. Witchcraft, wizardry and magic are often presented as relics of the past, as irrational residues of a primitive sensibility from which modern man needs to distance himself. This claim, however, requires examination: for magic remains deeply rooted in modern life and cannot be exorcized easily. In societies on the cusp of rapid, unsettling transformations, magic can be an effective source of fortitude and reflection, allaying fears and anxieties of the collective in the course of a violent uncoupling with all that is familiar. Anthropologists working with animist societies like the Sora tribe in India or with Siberia’s Reindeer People have shown how shamans can ease passage into modernity while maintaining a reassuring link with the past. That witches, wizards and druids can be vested with a therapeutic gift is unlikely to go down well with the rationalist enterprise. Indeed, some of the concerns of this constituency merit serious introspection. In India, with its patchy record in the spheres of education and health, psychological afflictions are often explained away — and even punished — as possessions. Witch-hunts are still a reality in parts of the country. These dark arts notwithstanding, the conflation of magic with an anti-modern ethic stems from specific prejudices. European colonialism was instrumental in chastising Oriental beliefs in and traditions of wizardry. Yet, magical beliefs and practices did not simply survive but, on occasions, developed and grew in the form of resistance against the imposition of colonial modernity. Traditional beliefs in protective magic and spirit possession were deployed in the context of postcolonial independence movements and mobilizations in a number of colonies, including India. Even the post-modern — West and East — remains enchanted: what else explains the stupendous cultural and commercial success of Harry Potter and his friends? Magic’s endurance — New Zealand’s health ministry still promotes Rongoa Maori, a traditional healing practice — is a reminder that the human mind can be receptive to the world of reason as well as to that nebulous sphere that challenges rationality.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-14
24-10-2021||Opinion||Will vipassana cure lazy govt officials? Nitish thinks so||Cannot keep calm The chief minister of Bihar, Nitish Kumar, announced 15 days of leave for state government officials and employees if they opt for a vipassana (a Buddhist method of meditation and self-awareness) retreat at the Buddha Smriti Park in Patna. While it spread cheer among government workers, it also rang alarm bells among the public. The general sentiment was that a majority of government employees either do not work or work half-heartedly already, and they get months of holidays every year as it is, and yet Kumar was heaping more on them. “I am just wondering how vipassana will help the senior and junior employees! Will they become honest and responsible? First they need to inculcate the qualities of non-violence, truth, and non-stealing before opting for higher yogic practices. Nitish should go for a massive crackdown on corruption in the state before offering such sops to the government servants,” said one of the people who attended the function at which the CM made the announcement. Great leveller The sangh parivar certainly has an issue with Urdu, Arabic, Persian or anything considered to do remotely with Islam. But there are exceptions. Although the Bangalore South Lok Sabha member, Tejasvi Surya, forced the desi apparel maker, Fabindia, to withdraw a Diwali advertisement with the tagline, “Jashn-E-Riwaaz” — the firm clarified later that the ad was not just for the festival of lights — BJP-ruled Karnataka has been at the forefront of luring in investments from the Arab world. The sharia-compliant, UAE-based Gulf Islamic Investments is to open an office in Bangalore and invest Rs 3,500 crore in the country. The state sent a delegation comprising industries minister Murugesh Nirani and  information technology minister CN Ashwath Narayana to pitch for this contract at the Dubai Expo 2020, underway in the snazzy Gulf emirate. Money, of course, is a great leveller. Peace reigns President Ram Nath Kovind expressed his desire to visit Takht Sri Harmandir Ji Sahib, popularly known as Patna Sahib, the birthplace of Guru Gobind Singh, the 10th guru of the Sikhs. But this brought on an anxiety attack for many top secret service, security and administrative officials. A few days ago, Sikh leaders connected to the management of the pious seat in Bihar and their supporters had had a fierce clash among themselves over petty issues; they had even drawn out swords to threaten one another. The officials were apprehensive after the incident and wondered what they would do in case of a repeat of such an incident during the president’s visit. “We worried about the groups clashing in or around Patna Sahib during the dignitary’s visit. It would have projected such a bad image of us across the globe,” a senior official said. However, better sense prevailed and no untoward incident happened. Kovind came, prayed and returned peacefully. Health is wealth The Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana health smart cards have become a potent political weapon in the hands of the ruling Biju Janata Dal in Odisha, which is gearing up for panchayat and municipal elections early next year. The CM, Naveen Patnaik, who has been resisting the Centre’s attempts to impose the Ayushman Bharat scheme on the state, appears convinced that BSKY health cards are better and will help his party to further consolidate its position in the state where it has been in power for the last 21 years. The cards, which guarantee free treatment of up to Rs 5 lakh per family for men and Rs 10 lakh for women, are in high demand and Patnaik has made it a point to distribute them to people himself at programmes organized by the government but attended in large numbers by BJD workers and office bearers. He recently handed out health smart cards to people at Baripada, the headquarters of the tribal-dominated Mayurbhanj district where the Bharatiya Janata Party, the principal political rival of the BJD, had done well in the last panchayat as well as assembly and Lok Sabha polls. One wonders if health will become wealth for the BJD. Footnote There is no doubt that Basavaraj Bommai is the CM of Karnataka. But the manner in which the BJP has been relying on BS Yediyurappa to draw crowds at the campaigns for assembly bypolls raises questions about whether the party has a viable alternative for the 78-year-old Lingayat strongman. In both Hanagal and Sindagi, Yediyurappa is the fulcrum of the BJP’s campaign. Bommai only comes a distant second. The veteran is in no mood to give up; his target is the 2023 state polls for which he is embarking on a statewide tour soon. It looks like the BJP has no clue on how to contain him in a state considered the sangh parivar’s laboratory in the South.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-15
