25-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Torn fabric||Social media has been weaponized by bigots to proverbially beat up pliant victims. The recent storm in the social media tea cup over Fabindia’s introduction of a new collection titled ‘Jashn-e-Riwaaz’ during the festive season adhered to a predictable, sickening, dispiriting script. Thin-skinned, self-professed guardians of the Hindu faith took umbrage, alleging that this was an attempt on the part of the company to ‘de-Hinduize’ Diwali. Fabindia denied that the line was its Diwali collection: there would not be a problem even if it was the case — giving in to the poisoning of language, including advertisement lingo, is a mischief that must be resisted at every level. Unfortunately, Fabindia refused to stand up to the bullying and took down some of the promotional tweets of the new range of clothing after social media echoed with calls of boycotting its products. The capitulation of businesses in the face of an ideological witch-hunt has become de rigueur in New India. A jewellery brand of the Tatas, one of India’s most respectable establishments, had been singed by an equally toxic campaign because it had chosen to, quite refreshingly, endorse interfaith marriages, yet another pillar of pluralist India that is now under siege. These vicious campaigns, targeting businesses or political and ideological opponents of bigotry, reveal the double-facedness of Narendra Modi and his government. In the face of criticism, the prime minister is in the habit of mouthing homilies that talk of accommodation. His slogan, ‘Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas’, is a classic example of this lip-service. Mr Modi falls short when it comes to translating words into action by rooting out engineered divisiveness. The consequences of this wilful inertia are chilling. Apart from embossing the republic with a distinct majoritarian imprint, the complicity also encourages a loony constituency that is no longer limited to the fringes to subvert constitutional traditions and the rule of law. Businesses suffer too. There is plentiful research to suggest that a communal ethic is injurious to the entrepreneurial spirit. The submission of the captains of Indian industry may have something to do with the culture of institutionalized intimidation. They must recover their voice of reproach if India is to continue to function as a robust, assimilative democracy. But this mobilization of industry to condemn intolerance will only be possible if businessmen receive adequate support from their most important patron — the common man.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-14
25-10-2021||Opinion||Letters to the Editor: Amit Shah visits Jammu and Kashmir||Too little Sir — During his maiden visit to Jammu and Kashmir since the abrogation of Article 370, the Union home minister, Amit Shah, tried to woo the youth by alluring them with financial benefits (“Na bhai na: Shah”, Oct 24). Shah’s realization that the need of the hour is to bridge the trust deficit with Kashmiris is too little, too late. The Bharatiya Janata Party’s strident political posturing and autocratic policies have not won the government any friends. So long as Delhi continues with its policy of repressing Kashmiris and fails to initiate a genuine political process, restoring normalcy in the Valley will remain a distant dream. S.S. Paul,Nadia Human touch Sir — There are fears that journalism could be the next industry to fall prey to automation. Some news organizations recently used artificial intelligence to report on the Kandahar mosque blast. Although journalism involves reporting of dry facts, the role of emotions in this process cannot be undermined. For instance, a journalist speaking to people rendered homeless by a flood can never be replaced by the dehumanized reporting of a robot. Ranganathan Sivakumar,Chennai Ruled out Sir — A Delhi court recently denied bail to Sharjeel Imam, the Jawaharlal Nehru University student arrested for allegedly instigating rioting with his ‘inflammatory speech’ (“Proof sketchy but no bail”, Oct 23). It beats reason that although there is little to no evidence of the charges brought against Imam, he was denied bail. In a democracy, it is expected that anyone who goes to court will be treated fairly and presumed innocent until proven guilty. Further, the Supreme Court has made it clear that bail is the rule and jail the exception. But India’s lower courts refuse to get the message. How will Imam be compensated for the time he is losing in incarceration? Jahar Saha,Calcutta Fact check Sir — Even if one were to look past the fact only 30 per cent of India’s eligible population has been fully vaccinated, it cannot be forgotten that more than 4,53,000 people have lost their lives owing to the callousness of the government (“Blank noise”, Oct 22). While the prime minister falsely boasted of providing one billion vaccines for free, did he stop to recall the hundreds of migrant workers who lost their lives owing to an ill-planned lockdown or the countless children who took their own lives because they could not afford online education? Yet, rather than apologizing for his massive failure, the prime minister took credit for feats of statistical jugglery. This is a mockery of those who have lost their lives, directly or indirectly, owing to Covid. Kajal Chatterjee,Calcutta Sir — The prime minister’s address to the nation after one billion Covid-19 vaccines had been administered in India is not just premature but also childish. Other nations have started administering booster shots while 70 million vulnerable adults in India and most of its under-18 population remain unvaccinated. Vaccination in India is still making up for faulty policy at the start when the Centre thoughtlessly passed on the burden of procuring vaccines to the states. Worse, the prime minister was lying when he said one billion vaccines had been provided free of cost. At the height of the vaccine shortage, some hospitals charged exorbitant sums for the vaccines. He has nothing to be proud about. S.K. Choudhury,Bangalore Talk more Sir — The meeting of countries with a stake in Afghanistan — with the exception of the United States of America — in Moscow is a step forward. Although no one is in a hurry to recognize the Taliban government, regional forces are eager to see peace return to Afghanistan. It is thus commendable that India has promised humanitarian aid to that country in spite of the Taliban government. If influential countries can look past their personal gains, the Afghanistan crisis might just be resolved. D.V.G. Sankararao,Nellimarla, Andhra Pradesh Sir — The Moscow Format Consultations on Afghanistan are a cause for concern. This matter needs a careful diplomatic touch. Arindam Banik,Calcutta  Deepening gloom Sir — It is gloomy both outside and inside. An overcast sky can mess up mental health by inducing a chemical imbalance in the brain. It has been proven that on gloomy or rainy days, the brain produces very little serotonin — aka the happy hormone — making one feel unhappy or blue. This increases the possibility of seasonal affective disorder, causing fatigue, social withdrawal, hopelessness and depressive thoughts. Given that climate change is ensuring year-long monsoon-like conditions in cities like Calcutta which are close to the sea, the link between mental health and climate change needs to be explored further. Kasturi Ghosh,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-14
25-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Clear signs||The signs of green turning grey are everywhere; but few bother to read them. A new study has revealed that India has lost nearly two million hectares of tree cover — this includes plantations as well as natural forests — over the last two decades. Of this, the northeastern states account for 76.7 per cent. But this should not come as a surprise — the decline in green cover in the Northeast has been discernible for quite some time. Even two years ago, the India State of Forest Report 2019 showed that while forest cover in many parts of the country had increased, it had decreased in all northeastern states apart from Assam and Tripura. However, the then environment minister had decided to wish these symptoms away by claiming that they were not “yet a matter of concern”. What makes the situation all the more worrying is that the Northeast, which is home to one-fourth of India’s forest cover, houses a number of endangered species of flora and fauna. Shrinking tree cover would undoubtedly threaten the biodiversity of not only the region but also the country. A targeted investigation into tree cover loss — the complete removal of tree cover canopy — is the need of the hour in order to address the problems typical to the region. For example, shifting cultivation poses a grave threat to its green cover. Besides clearing off vast stretches for farming, it aggravates the risk of forest fires — the average number of such calamities in northeastern states is twice that in central states. Alternative farming practices need to be incentivized and local communities sensitized about the need for forest conservation. Further, policy intervention must focus on sustainability. For instance, the Centre’s plan to introduce oil palm cultivation to discourage the jhum practice has invited sharp criticism from environmentalists — these plantations, it is argued not without reason, damage the quality of soil irreversibly. If India is to fulfil its target of increasing its green cover to 33 per cent to meet the Paris Agreement goal, then such short-sightedness will not suffice. Instead of tweaking laws to make nominal changes to the status of forests — the proposed amendment to the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980 is a recent example — the government needs to crack down on lopsided templates of development that cause large-scale deforestation. The crisis is not restricted to the Northeast alone — the national capital may lose over 5,000 trees to a ‘development’ project. As such, a fundamental change in perspective is imperative. No progress can be ushered in at the cost of nature. Will the government understand this before it is too late?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-14
25-10-2021||Opinion||Tricky Game||It’s possible that the tide which brought hard-right populist governments to power in a number of central European countries is starting to go out again. In the Czech Republic, the billionaire oligarch, Andrej Babis, suffered a surprise defeat in his bid to be re-elected prime minister earlier this month. The last straw may have been the revelation in the Pandora Papers only days before that he had set up an offshore company to secretly buy a $17.6 million mansion in southern France. In Hungary, the Jew-baiting, Muslim-hating, ultra-nationalist president, Viktor Orbán, suddenly has to worry about winning re-election next year. The perennially split Opposition parties managed to unite and made the mayor of a small town their candidate. If they can manage to stay united, they might even bring Orbán down next year. In Poland, which has twice the population of the other two combined, the populist Law and Justice party (PiS) is drifting into troubled waters too. It doesn’t face re-election until 2023, but by then it may manage to get Poland expelled from the European Union: Polexit. That would greatly upset the 88 per cent of Poles who want to stay in the EU. The PiS is a deeply conservative party in the Catholic tradition, with populist trimmings like a government subsidy of about $125 per month for each child under 18. Its voters are mostly rural and small-town, deeply religious, older, and poorly educated. They respond well to racist, xenophobic, and anti-Semitic rhetoric.The PiS has been in power since 2015, but almost every recent election has been a hair’s-breadth victory: it is as unpopular in the liberal cities as it is beloved in the villages. So it set itself the task of improving its chances in future elections. One obvious measure was to take control of the media. That was easy with the State-owned media. However, it proved impossible to take over or freeze out the independent media, especially the foreign-owned ones, because EU law defends free speech. Polish courts upheld the EU laws as every member country had to pledge when it joined that on such matters EU law takes precedence over national laws and Constitutions. So the PiS decided to get around this roadblock by ‘reforming’ the Polish courts. First, the PiS government forced a lot of judges out by lowering the retirement age, and replaced them with PiS supporters. When the EU objected to this blatantly political tampering with the courts, it packed the Constitutional Tribunal with its own people and they declared that Polish law is superior to EU law. At that point, the Play-Doh hit the fan. The European Commission declared that rulings by the European Court of Justice are “binding on all member states’ authorities, including national courts.” France’s Europe minister was blunter: “[T]here is the risk of a de-facto exit.” He’s right. The PiS is playing a game of chicken with the EU, of course, and has no intention of actually leaving the EU. As the streets of Warsaw and other Polish big cities filled with young people chanting ‘Zostajemy’ (‘We’re staying’), the prime minister, Mateusz Morawiecki, declared, “The place of Poland is and will be in the European family of nations” — but he is already in over his head. Right now, Poland is awaiting approval of a $65 billion transfer from Brussels as its share of the EU’s $865 billion post-Covid ‘stimulus package’. But that and much else might not come if Poland is in revolt against the EU’s rules. Russia is still close, and although nobody is expecting a Russian invasion at the moment, all of Polish history is shouting that you don’t want to be alone out there. So it really should all blow over, but games of chicken are tricky. You have to drive like you have a death wish, and then turn away at the last second — but just after the other guy did. It’s really hard to get the timing right, and if you get it wrong, you drive off the cliff. Polexit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-14
25-10-2021||Opinion||Stormy weather||‘God’s Own Country’ is certainly Kerala’s grandiose moniker coined by its vibrant tourism industry. The state’s picturesque landscape, salubrious climate, and relative immunity to natural disasters, despite its fragile ecology, have certainly appeared to be providential blessings. Kerala, for long, had remained safe even when other states used to suffer natural disasters regularly. No wonder Kerala’s great floods of 1924 were a constant theme in Malayalam literature and cinema for almost a century. According to a historian, old people in Kerala even anchored their memories in relation to that flood. But this story is undergoing a major transition. Kerala now appears to be slipping out of god’s protection, thanks mostly to humans. Kerala is being visited by nature’s wrath with stunning regularity, especially since 2017, although the first major calamity to hit the state was the tsunami of 2004. In the latest round, torrential rains battered the state for four days from October 15, causing floods and landslips that took 50 lives and caused much loss to property. The heavy rains were caused by a low-pressure area over southwestern Arabian Sea. The first in the devastating series was the Ockhi cyclone of November 2017. The tropical cyclone, classified as ‘very severe’, made landfall in Lakshadweep, Tamil Nadu and Kerala before spiralling away towards Gujarat. As many as 143 fishermen were killed in Kerala by this most intense cyclonic storm in the Arabian Sea after Cyclone Megh in 2015. Next year, Kerala suffered the worst floods of the century. Caused by abnormally heavy monsoon rains during June-August, it killed about 500 and caused damages worth Rs 40,000 crore. Heart-rending images of swollen rivers and dams, beautiful landscapes, houses, roads, bridges, temples, churches, and even airports reeling under waters, hills ravaged by landslips, marooned men and women being airlifted by choppers and so on were new to Kerala. The only silver lining was the massive voluntary participation of Kerala’s civil society in the rescue and rehabilitation operations led by various official agencies and the government. But since then, the eerie images have become all too familiar every August. On August 8, 2019, the southwestern monsoon came down, once again, in torrents, triggered by a depression in the Arabian Sea, with its usual attendants — floods, landslips, deaths, devastation. The death toll reached 129 within a week and 80-odd landslides caused most of them. According to a study, the floods were caused primarily by a mesoscale cloudburst event, more common in the north but never reported before in the Kerala region. Kerala reported the first case of Covid-19 in India in January next year. This year, too, Kerala awaited the monsoon with bated breath amidst fears of an encore. The India Meteorological Department issued red alerts in three districts. With clockwork precision, the heavy downpour triggered floods in various districts on August 7. However, the major havoc was confined to one hill district, Idukki, where a huge landslip at a tea plantation near Munnar killed 52 labourers when their settlements were buried under. The region faced its heaviest rains in four decades. Misfortune struck Kerala again the same day when the Air India Express Flight 737 from Dubai skidded off the tabletop runway while landing amidst heavy rains at the Calicut international airport, killing 19 passengers and both pilots. The flight had 184 passengers and was repatriating Indians stranded due to the pandemic. There is now a debate on why Kerala is faced with this regular cycle of disasters and their consequences. A blame game is on as well. The government has slammed the IMD for not forecasting precisely. The IMD and the Opposition blame the government for ignoring warnings and not learning lessons from the past. The inept management of the state’s 40-odd large dams accentuated the floods. Experts cite reasons, ranging from climate change to anthropogenic commissions like stone quarries in ecologically sensitive zones, conversion of paddy fields that used to absorb rains, the mining of river beds, razing hills for indiscriminate construction, mono-crop cultivation and so on. Madhav Gadgil’s report (2011) had predicted the possible calamities that would be caused by the destruction of the Western Ghats on account of encroachment, quarrying, and other factors. But political parties of all hues and the Christian churches worked together to reject the report to appease vote banks and religious constituencies. Kerala has nearly 6,000 stone quarries of which only about 1,000 are licensed. Most quarries are located near forests or in ecologically sensitive zones and 78 of the 115 landslides that occurred between 1983 and 2015 were in these zones. “The state of Kerala has always considered itself a safe place, treating major disasters as those happening to other people. Ever since its formation in 1956, Kerala did not have to face major natural disasters. However, this myth was shattered in 2004 by a tsunami, but even then, people assumed it as a once-in-a-millennium freak incident”, said a report on Kerala’s 2018 floods authored by a team headed by Muralee Thummarukudy, a UNEP disaster management specialist. In 2016, the State Disaster Management Plan had identified that Kerala was prone to 17 natural and 22 anthropogenic hazards, many of them induced by climate change. Nearly 14.5 per cent of the state’s land area is prone to floods. A valid reason for Kerala’s present plight and a grim warning came from studies pointing to a very important, recent shift occurring in the North Indian Ocean consisting of the Arabian Sea and the Bay of Bengal. They show that the once cooler Arabian Sea has been warming in the past two decades much faster than the Bay of Bengal, which was always warmer. The result is the rise in the frequency, intensity, and duration of cyclonic storms originating in the Arabian Sea compared to the Bay of Bengal that is wreaking havoc on the western coast. The past trend of more cyclones originating in the Bay of Bengal than in the Arabian Sea has been reversed. An international study (2014) led by Pune’s Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology has corroborated this. According to it, the western tropical Indian Ocean has been warming for more than a century at a rate faster than any other region of the tropical oceans and has turned out to be the largest contributor to the overall trend in the global mean sea surface temperature. A 2016 study by Hiroyuki Murakami of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration in the United States of America blamed anthropogenic climate changes for the excessive warming and the resultant cyclones in the Arabian Sea. According to meteorologists, it was the first time since the beginning of satellite records in 1980 in India that the Arabian Sea had severe pre-monsoon cyclones — Mekanu (2018), Vayu (2019), Nisarga (2020), Tauktae (2021) — in four consecutive years. Similarly, the formation of four cyclones in a single year (2019) over the Arabian Sea was recorded after 117 years. The Arabian Sea and the western coast are perilously in for more. M.G. Radhakrishnan, a senior journalist based in Thiruvananthapuram, has worked with various print and electronic media organizations||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-14
