26-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Flight out||In a recent remark, Amit Mitra, the finance minister of West Bengal, claimed that 35,000 high-net-worth individuals had left India during 2014-2020. The claim is that in terms of this exodus, India ranks first in the world. India, however, ranks sixth in the number of millionaires and billionaires — 330,000 with net assets over USD 1 million and 120 with net assets of over $1 billion. According to Mr Mitra, one possible reason for this flight of entrepreneurs is the fear psychosis that has increasingly gripped the nation during the rule of the National Democratic Alliance. A few weeks back, a Union cabinet minister stated in public that the business practices of some Indian companies were not in the national interest. This was a strong and sweeping claim that would not make any business owner or manager either happy or proud. Worse, there was no rebuttal or even a qualifying comment from the prime minister. There is also the discernible trend of using tax authorities and other Central agencies against business houses and even well-known individuals. In most of these cases, the charges are seemingly flimsy or unsubstantial since it takes enormous time for the authorities to frame charges and bring the cases to court. It is argued that the most preferred destinations of those who left the nation were the United States of America, Canada, Australia, New Zealand and the United Arab Emirates. It is clear that Indian capital is not looking for new opportunities in emerging markets, but competing in well-established, mature market economies. Mr Mitra has called for a white paper on the matter to be placed in Parliament. It is important to know why this has happened and exactly to what extent. It sends a poor signal about the state of doing business in India to the rest of the world. The World Bank’s ease of doing business index showed an improvement for India, which moved sharply from a rank of 142 in 2014 to 63 in 2019. Even this ranking has come under the scanner with the World Bank suspending further publications of this report pending inquiries into irregularities regarding data quality and some ethical issues involving its staff members. Indeed, after discounting the jump in ranking, what has now emerged is the disquieting prospect of the flight of capital under the present regime. Meanwhile, the Central government continues with a fuzzy set of economic policies and maintains an uncanny silence on serious economic issues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-13
26-10-2021||Opinion||Letters to the Editor: Sudhaa Chandran's flying woes||Gentle touch Sir — The actress and dancer, Sudhaa Chandran, revealed that every time she has to board a flight, she is asked to remove her prosthetic leg at security checks. This infringes on the dignity of the individual. Would the Central Industrial Security Force have apologized had Chandran, a public figure, not appealed to the prime minister to look into the matter? It is no secret that people with disabilities are routinely harassed in the name of safety protocols. Unless the staff is sensitized to conduct minimally invasive security checks, such incidents will recur. Anamika Saha,Calcutta Fight on Sir — A secret online school has reportedly been launched in Afghanistan by LEARN Afghanistan, a charity, for girls older than 12 who were banned from returning to classrooms by the conservative Taliban government. The efforts of the charitable institution must be commended. Ever since the Taliban regained control of Afghanistan, severe restrictions on access to education and work for women have been imposed. The school is a ray of hope for female students but as long as the Taliban is in power, the situation is unlikely to improve for women. Kiran Agarwal,Calcutta Old habits Sir — It is astounding that a significant number of people are, once again, out on the streets without masks as Covid-19 cases rise in the aftermath of Durga Puja (“Covid cases are rising, masks are falling”, Oct 24). Last month, when I drove to Maithon Dam, I saw that most people in Asansol city were not wearing masks and mingling in groups without care. It is difficult to comprehend the rationale behind this when a large number of fully-vaccinated people are testing positive for Covid. People must continue to strictly follow prescribed safety measures for the sake of their loved ones. Ashok Kumar Ghosh, Calcutta Sir — We all knew that Covid-19 cases would rise once the festive season was over — this had been the case last year too. It is alarming that people continue to be this irresponsible. The mutant strains of the coronavirus have hit several countries where many fully-vaccinated individuals have succumbed to the disease. We have to acknowledge that inoculation is not a guarantee against the onslaught of the disease. We will need to continue to adhere to Covid-19 protocols for the foreseeable future. Melville X. D’Souza,Mumbai Winning streak Sir — India has clinched the South Asian Football Federation championship for the eighth time by defeating Nepal 3-0. Sunil Chhetri, Suresh Singh and Sahal Abdul Samad each scored a goal which put the team on the winning track. The efforts and steady performance of the Indian football team must be appreciated. Anushka Jaiswal, Ujjain||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-13
26-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Mellowed voice||The iron fist has failed in Kashmir. Therefore, it is now time to don the velvet glove. That seems to be the crux of the message that the Union home minister delivered while addressing a gathering of youths in Srinagar in the course of his maiden visit to the Valley after the abrogation of Article 370. Amit Shah appeared uncharacteristically conciliatory even though he stopped short of issuing an explicit apology for the pain and humiliation inflicted on Kashmir in these recent, turbulent times. For instance, Mr Shah conceded that the government’s measures to weed out militancy cannot succeed without the help of the youth and the local population. There is no disputing the role of public support in a campaign against militancy. But what needs to be asked of Mr Shah and his government is what they have done to address the gnawing trust deficit between the State and its subjects in Kashmir. Stripping Kashmir of its statehood, liquidating its special provisions without representative consultations with Kashmir’s political and public constituencies, humiliating and incarcerating the Valley’s political leaders, followed by the imposition of one of the most brutal crackdowns — all this in the name of ‘integration’ — could have hardly endeared the civilians to the Narendra Modi government. What has heightened public anxiety are whispers of broader — engineered — demographic transitions as well as the consistent anti-minority rhetoric of the Centre. The results have been predictable. Bloodshed is on the rise, with militants keen on deepening the fissures with targeted killings of minorities in the Valley. It is possible that Mr Shah was attempting to deliver a rather belated healing touch. However, it is doubtful that the home minister would succeed in winning over hearts with his latest overtures. The reason is that the Bharatiya Janata Party is prone to viewing Jammu and Kashmir’s long and complex history through an ideological prism. Such a prejudicial lens, complemented by the BJP’s flirtations with unilateralism, has, over the years, set a dangerous drift in the region. What is required is for the Centre to replenish the people’s confidence by ushering in participatory development through collaboration. That would require a fundamental break between the BJP and its ideological tenets. This rupture is an unlikely possibility.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-13
26-10-2021||Opinion||Boost morale, not miles||There are rumblings in West Bengal and Punjab over the jurisdiction of the world’s largest border guarding force, the BSF, raised in 1965 to protect the Indo-Pakistan and Indo-Bangladesh frontiers. The Union home ministry has just extended the area of operation of the Border Security Force (its powers include arrest, search and seizure) up to 50 kilometre in these two states and Assam. Earlier, its jurisdiction was limited to up to 15 km in these states. To ensure uniformity, it has curtailed the area in Gujarat from 80 km to 50 km. The move, announced in a gazette notification, has been criticized by the Bengal and Punjab governments as an attack on the federal structure of the country and an attempt to clip the rights of the state police. Does their grouse ring a bell? In 2012, Narendra Modi, as the Gujarat chief minister, had opposed a Central government move to expand the BSF’s jurisdiction. He had written to the then prime minister, Manmohan Singh, accusing the Centre of weakening the country’s federal structure. The move, he alleged, was an attempt to “create a state within a state”. In 2014, the home ministry’s notification said the BSF’s jurisdiction covered “the states of Manipur, Mizoram, Tripura, Nagaland and Meghalaya and so much of the area comprised within a belt” of 80 km in Gujarat, 50 km in Rajasthan and 15 km in the states of Punjab, West Bengal and Assam. The new notification amends the earlier one with: “Manipur, Mizoram, Tripura, Nagaland and Meghalaya and Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh and... a belt of 50 km in the states of Gujarat, Rajasthan, Punjab, West Bengal and Assam”. Taking a cue from Modi, the states can argue that law and order is a state subject and the move will infringe on their powers. Exercising powers under the BSF Act of 1968, the home ministry has extended the BSF’s powers under the Criminal Procedure Code, the Passport (Entry into India) Act, 1920 and Passport Act, 1967. While the parliamentary standing committee for home has decided to scrutinize border management, the need of the hour is to boost the morale of the force, not add to its area of operation. A visit along the border reveals how isolated and at the mercy of adversaries these personnel can be; many of them have committed or contemplated suicide and fragging is no longer rare. On a BSF border track along Bangladesh for nearly 30 km from Agartala to Kamalasagar (primarily fortified, since 833 km of Tripura’s 856 km international border has been fenced with barbed wire), there is a single sentry at each post, armed with a rifle and walkie-talkie, certainly no match for a gang of desperate smugglers. Add to that the prospect of staring for hours at miles of fields trying to decipher cows or drug smugglers and battling the vagaries of nature (the shelter is no protection against squalls, or swarms of insects and reptiles in pitch darkness). Combating trans-border crimes can be a superhuman task in these circumstances. A former inspector-general of the BSF, who was director of the BSF Academy, told me the “force must be utilized for the purpose it was raised, not for election duty, fighting Naxalites or helping the police during communal riots. Unless the BSF companies are rotated to the battalion headquarters, the men will continue to face the brunt. We must ensure their welfare.” Why were the BSF’s powers not enhanced with regard to the Arms Act, Customs Act and Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, since these cover most of the smuggling offences along the border? Unlike in China, India’s efforts to fortify border infrastructure are minimal. Just increasing area jurisdiction defeats the very purpose of enhanced vigilance. It makes the ill-equipped posts soft targets and our solo-act jawans sitting ducks!||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-13
26-10-2021||Opinion||A picture of women's success||Globalization has led to multiple employment opportunities with the potential to alleviate poverty. Yet, women are over-represented among the poor, and the trend is deepening globally. The value ascribed to women’s work is not commensurate with that of work performed by men. Women are more likely to engage with unpaid labour and reproductive work, draw lower-wage salaries, work for longer hours, and face riskier work conditions than men. Furthermore, due to traditional customs and formal laws of inheritance, women are likely to own lesser land. While women comprise a category exposed to discrimination and oppressive structures, those from geopolitically disturbed terrain — Kashmir’s women are a case in point — stand doubly disadvantaged. This is not only because of the feminization of poverty but also because they are at the receiving end of various subjugate acts enshrined in social practices as well as of the threat of militancy that the region is vulnerable to. Since the Partition, Kashmir has exhibited volatility and vulnerability. The conflict plays out at various levels: India versus Pakistan, Hindus versus Muslims, and Kashmiri Muslims versus Kashmiri Pandits. The Valley has been an epicentre of militancy, greatly impacting livelihoods and the economy. The consequences are telling. The sex ratio had declined in Kashmir from 900 in 2001 to 889 in 2011. The literacy rate for females stood at 56.43 per cent while their work participation rate was 19.1 per cent. Women from the Valley are at risk of being trafficked because of poverty and suffer psychological trauma arising out of the conflict. Opportunities for education and employment are unequal; there is legitimacy for polygamous relationship for men; instances of divorcing a wife for her inability to bear an heir are not unheard of. Atrocities are perpetrated by insurgents and fundamentalists alike. Women venturing into domains associated with men are perceived as a threat. For women to be truly empowered, consciousness, ideology and structural conditions need to be challenged. Technology platforms could be a tool to facilitate women’s empowerment. These platforms have enabled women to conduct businesses with ease and reach out to a global audience with minimal capital investment. For instance, Instagram has been instrumental in bringing together skill-sets on the supply side and buyers on the other end for growth in the small and medium enterprises sector, enabling women entrepreneurs to reach consumers directly without the involvement of third parties. Instagram is now prominent as a business platform and Instagram entrepreneurs are known as Instapreneurs. It has also helped women connect with and support each other, thereby forming a community to voice their opinions against existing structural constraints. There are several women entrepreneurs operating out of the Valley. Clothing seems to be the most popular choice for entrepreneurship, followed by arts and crafts and health and beauty products. Significantly, Instapreneurship among women spring from a will to preserve Kashmiri culture, to pursue individual passions, or overcome the gloomy employment situation in the state. The scope of Instapreneurship can be expanded further so that women can exercise choice in decision-making in business and personal matters. The key to sustainable development in a restive geography like Kashmir lies in discovering the potential of new technology platforms like Instagram. However, women’s empowerment through technology need not follow a linear script. Gender stereotypes are often reinforced, rather than challenged, as women go about bearing the dual responsibilities of business and household. To fully tap into the potential of women Instapreneurs and move beyond the miscarriage of justice, empowerment should not be contingent upon class, income, or education. Although globalization and social media platforms like Instagram have substantially opened up avenues, insurgency and the enduring patriarchal mindset still impede women’s empowerment, reiterating the fact that development cannot be a substitute for justice. Debarati Bhattacharya is a student in the Faculty of Planning, CEPT University, Ahmedabad||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-13
26-10-2021||Opinion||Different take||Re-examining periods of the past is crucial to deepening our understanding of history. Today, when we are fighting a massive, relentless hijacking attempt on the history of our freedom struggle by the falsification factories of the Hindutva brigade, genuine re-examinations of the first few decades of the 20th century matter more than ever. Shoojit Sircar’s recently released film, Sardar Udham, positions itself as such a project, one which brings to light the almost forgotten story of Udham Singh, who also went to the gallows, ten years after the execution of his younger and much more famous HSRA comrade, Bhagat Singh. The events being historical there’s no risk of a plot reveal as such and the structure of the script goes thus: the film begins with titles explaining the 1919 Jallianwala Bagh massacre, for which General Reginald Dyer and the Lieutenant-Governor of Punjab, Michael O’Dwyer, were responsible; we see Udham, imprisoned for previous anti-raj activities, being released from jail in Lahore in 1931; he goes underground immediately and starts making his way to Britain with the aim of exacting revenge for Jallianwala; by the 30-minute mark, of the 2-hour-44-minute movie, Udham has reached London, shot O’Dwyer dead, and been arrested; his interrogations begin, with heavy beatings and torture. While one strand of the story keeps him incarcerated till his hanging, other strands flashback into his youth in Amritsar, his friendship with Bhagat Singh, the period Udham spends between 1934 when he first arrives in London and the actual assassination in 1940 and so on. Sircar’s record as a film-maker and the trailers indicating a high-budget saga were promising. What we actually get is a particular kind of screen-creature, very recognizable from previous epic disappointments. There are long passages traversing different countries, landscapes and locations in which an international cast of actors is choreographed in dramatic set-piece action, but which finally don’t add up to much. At one early point of the movie, there is an extended sequence of Udham stumbling across the snow in Russia on his long trek to London. Putting aside the nods to Tarkovsky, the Kurosawa of Dersu Uzala and the garnish of David Lean-ish long shots, this whole collection of shots is pointless and a precursor of many such stretches to come — arid bits devoid of plot development or cinematic weight (cinema here meaning where something magical happens outside of, or as a detour to, the story, but which illuminates the narrative when we come back to it). Unfortunately, many of these locational displays become bald patches on the scalp of the script, taking up filmic space instead of more challenging moments that might have been depicted. In all his travel and travails, Udham seems to learn nothing. His (very basic communist) political consciousness undergoes no evident deepening or expansion, he doesn’t gain any new insight about the Indian situation from seeing what is happening in other parts of the world. Ultimately, his remains a one-gear motive — he witnesses what was done at Jallianwala Bagh, he tells Bhagat Singh that he, too, will hang one day, and so there he is, full twenty years later, deciding to publicly shoot O’Dwyer in an act of actual and symbolic violence, but in the middle of the biggest outbreak of global violence history has ever seen. The recurring sequences of mayhem and murder do not manage to cover up a central lacuna in the script: the various people who chose violence to try and overthrow the raj all had one thing in common — they were severely at odds with the Congress’s non-violent ethos; at least from the mid-1920s, these violent freedom-fighters worked both against and under the massive shadow of Gandhi and his ahimsa; you didn’t have to like Gandhi or agree with him, but you couldn’t escape engaging with him. None of this registers in the film at all — Gandhi is mentioned but once. Watching it, someone unfamiliar with the history of the Indian freedom struggle could be forgiven for thinking that nothing much really happened in India’s fight to be free before or after the moment of Bhagat Singh’s actions and execution in 1931 and Udham’s great act of assassination in 1940. If Sircar had had the courage to make something à la Luchino Visconti’s The Leopard, or Bertolucci’s 1900 (both over four hours long), maybe he could have explored properly, tarried here and there, and told us the tale of an Indian freedom fighter in exile, working, organizing, engaging with Soviet Russia, experiencing first-hand the working-class grimness in the heart of Imperial Britain. Instead, we get little tik-tok-ized vignettes: protest on London factory floor, meeting with Soviet Politburo representatives, failed arms deal with IRA gun-runner, brush up against communist Englishwoman/semi love-interest and so on. All too often, the film is self-seduced into displaying its production plumage: look at my vast budget, my many locations, my great CGI, how many foreign actors I’ve marshalled and so on. The actual shooting of O’Dwyer, shown twice in exactly the same way, is but one part of Udham’s story, but it is clearly the bit that most hypnotizes the script-writers, that and the endless Jallianwala Bagh chunk, which feels like every single nice shot taken in that night time set-up was joined together. All over the anxious short-cuts taken by the script are ghostly echoes of a conversation between script-writers and director, one or the other saying, ‘Arre yaar, today’s audience won’t have patience for that.’ The self-indulgent repetitions come from the same insecurity. This fear of the audience ultimately translates into a fear of complexity and nuance. And this fear is the counterpart, or flip-side, of the kind of thinking that covers up the actual bullet-ridden walls of Jallianwala Bagh with kitschy reliefs. Both sides end up treating history purely as an instrument to be used, one side deploying a concocted, completely false, narrative to try and increase its grip on power, the opposing side using it as raw material to create a superficial spectacle which nods to the contemporary situation with references to ‘azadi’, the cruel sedition laws, the jailing of students, the mass disconnection of telephones and drone shots of lined up corpses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-14
