27-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Fangsbook||Digital demons are but reflections of real monsters. According to reports leaked by a whistle-blower, the artificial intelligence algorithm running Facebook is programmed to amplify hate speech which gets more views and, in turn, more advertising. The situation is especially acute in India, where, evidence shows, unverified rumours and even content debunked by Facebook’s fact-check partners are promoted by the algorithm. It is worrying that a lot of this content and hate speech has been found to originate from members with links to the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, alleges the document that has been compiled by the whistleblower. There is also evidence to prove complicity between Facebook and the political establishment. During the last general elections in India, Facebook created a “political white list” granting some politicians special exemption from fact-checking. This makes it obvious that political parties and their proxies, in India and around the world, exploit the platform to meet dubious ends. What is alarming is that this malaise appears to be contagious. An internal audit carried out by Twitter showed that its algorithm disproportionately amplifies right-wing political content and news sources. Strangely, Twitter, which had marked a toolkit shared by a BJP spokesperson as “manipulated media” and had its offices raided by the police in return, has not been able to identify the reasons for this amplification. Toxic algorithms, evidently, are turning a bad situation worse. Given the volume of data and the number of users, it is impossible for social media platforms to overhaul or exhaustively audit social media algorithms. What is required, then, is human intervention. Facebook spends 87 per cent of its global budget earmarked for tackling misinformation in North America — where only 10 per cent of its users reside — while India, its largest market, suffers owing to a lack of moderators and fact-checkers in regional languages. The leaked documents reportedly state that this is the reason why content posted by “users, groups and pages from the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh” get away unchecked. The pushback against this hate-mongering must proceed on the following lines. Social media platforms must be legally made amenable to independent, objective scrutiny. Since mischievous regimes are unlikely to play the role of the conscientious objector, advertisers must take the lead and stop patronizing digital outlets with venomous fangs. Depletions in finances have a wonderful ability to stoke a somnolent conscience. Most important, though, is public education. Teaching consumers to identify and then report spurious visuals and other forms of content could determine the outcome of this battle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-13
27-10-2021||Opinion||Letters to the Editor: Mamata asks Modi to withdraw extended BSF jurisdiction||Bold move Sir — The West Bengal chief minister, Mamata Banerjee, has rightly asked the prime minister, Narendra Modi, to withdraw the home ministry’s decision to increase the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force from 15 kilometres to 50 km in the state (“Didi fires BSF land-grab gun”, Oct 25). The Modi government has developed a penchant for flexing its muscles with regard to states’ autonomy in the name of integration. Law and order is a state subject. As such, the Centre should refrain from trying to infringe on Bengal’s territory. Rajanya Dey,Howrah Sir — The Punjab cabinet has taken a serious view of the Centre’s move to extend the BSF jurisdiction in the state. The chief minister, Charanjit Singh Channi, has stated that the police force is capable of dealing with any law-and-order situation in the state. This step goes against the spirit of federalism. With this, a war seems to have broken out between the Centre and the state. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Sir — The Centre has taken a bold step forward in extending the jurisdiction of the BSF. This will embolden the spirit of our front-line warriors in dealing with cross-border terrorism, illegal drugs smuggling, cattle trade and unchecked migration across porous borders. The move created a stir in Punjab and Bengal since the Centre seldom deems it necessary to consult state governments — especially in Opposition-ruled states — before taking any big decision. But the states, too, should have done more to handle these complex issues that threaten national security. The Centre should now resolve the differences with stakeholders in Punjab and Bengal to create a healthy precedent in mainstream politics. Janga Bahadur Sunuwar,Jalpaiguri Sir — The Centre’s decision on the BSF was unilateral and hasty. If it has inputs on any specific, fresh dangers from across the borders, the details must be shared with the border states. This move may backfire politically. The economy in the border districts of Punjab is already suffering. Protesting farmers, too, are unlikely to welcome this move. This will encourage migration from rural areas to cities, creating more chaos. The BSF’s vigil should have been tightened within the existing framework instead. There also seems to be a lack of coordination between the BSF and the state police. The people of Punjab have genuine reason to worry. Brij B. Goyal,Ludhiana Lessons learnt Sir — It was heartbreaking to watch the Indian men’s cricket team lose to Pakistan at the T20 World Cup match (“Pak blow holes in India armour”, Oct 25). This is a refreshing change for Pakistan — the team had a good combination of both batsmen and bowlers. The commendable performance of the pacer, Shaheen Afridi, restricted India to 151 runs. The Indian team must investigate the reasons for this embarrassing performance and use it to revitalize itself. Jayanta Datta,Hooghly Sir — As averred by Virat Kohli, a single loss is not the end of the road. However, as captain, he must answer some questions. Why did he play Bhuvneshwar Kumar in spite of his poor performance at the just-concluded Indian Premier League? Moreover, why was Ravichandran Ashwin, dubbed the world’s best spinner, benched and a rookie spinner brought out against a team who are better players of spin? One also wonders why the captain insisted on including Hardik Pandya, who is not fit enough. Pakistan played better cricket on the day. But the way our bowlers failed to take even a single wicket is worrying. Is it possible that the IPL has taken a toll on our front-line bowlers? N. Viswanathan,Coimbatore Too soon to switch Sir — Schools in West Bengal have been closed for nearly one-and-a-half years. Widespread campaigns — both online and offline — in favour of classroom teaching have finally led the government to declare the reopening of schools mid-November. The supporters of offline classes have been justifiably worried about the academic progress of students and their fair evaluation as well as the plight of children without the privilege of technology. However, the tendency of not adhering to Covid norms — wearing of masks and social distancing — has increased the spread of infection. Urgent steps must be taken to contain it. Until then, it is not safe for children — who are yet to be vaccinated — to attend offline classes. After all, classroom education cannot come at the cost of their health or lives. Atmadip Bakshi,Calcutta  Real danger Sir — Animal rescue videos — these show people saving helpless creatures from peril — are highly popular on social media these days. While the efforts of those who perform these rescue operations must be lauded — these videos can inspire others to do the same — one wonders how many of these are genuine and how many just ploys to get attention on social media. A report showed that 180 fake animal rescue videos were posted on YouTube between October 2018 to May 2021. In fact, there has been an upward trend in such online activity, pointing to a rise in animal cruelty in reality. But little is done to check this menace. It is time that strict action is taken against people who pose the real threat to animal safety. Pramiti Shukla,Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-13
27-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Visible cracks||A strong base is the key to support any edifice. Unfortunately, the building blocks of the judiciary, as the Chief Justice of India, N.V. Ramana, pointed out in an address after inaugurating a new wing at the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay High Court, need urgent repair. The data are dispiriting. An estimated 26 per cent of court complexes lack toilet facilities for women while 16 per cent do not have men’s toilets; a paltry 27 per cent have computers on the judge’s dais along with video-conferencing facilities; the provision of basic amenities like water and health are minimal — 54 per cent and 5 per cent, respectively. What is worse, interventions to improve court infrastructure have been tardy in their implementation. Research has indicated that none of the courts in India, apart from the district courts in Delhi and Chandigarh, have been able to fulfil the guidelines established by the National Court Management Systems Committee way back in 2012. A separate scheme to improve facilities in court that has been in operation since the early 1990s, research data suggest, has been bogged down by clumsy coordination at the state-level. The implications of this neglect, as Mr Ramana underlined, are pernicious. Poor infrastructure adds to the glut of cases, especially those involving commercial disputes, compensation and land acquisition. The slowing down of the wheels of justice has financial implications — the erosion of GDP growth, for instance. Equally worrying would be the consequent deficit in public trust in a judiciary hobbled by primitive technology and lacking in other public amenities. Such an outcome can be truly ominous in a democracy because Indian courts have a long and glorious history of serving as not only the vanguard of constitutional values but also checking the excesses of an ambitious, authoritarian executive. Two points raised by the CJI bear special significance in this context. The first is Mr Ramana’s call to reduce the judiciary’s financial dependence on the executive. This option should certainly be explored, given the notorious propensity of the present government to control key institutions. Mr Ramana’s other point — he has sent a proposal to the Union law ministry to institute a National Judicial Infrastructure Authority — must be expedited at the earliest. An efficient judiciary propelled by modernized facilities is a right of the citizens at large.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-13
27-10-2021||Opinion||One David, two Goliaths||On one of his many trips to Bhutan, Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked a rhetorical question that was meant to highlight the traditional trust that has defined the relationship between India and its small northern neighbour. “Who will not want a friend and a neighbour like Bhutan?” Modi wondered aloud. Modi was right. The peace-loving Himalayan nation has never posed a threat. It has stood by India even on occasions when New Delhi’s tendency to throw its weight around has alienated others in South Asia. Unlike other small nations in the region, it has avoided playing China and India against each other to secure the best deals for itself. At least until now. Earlier this month, China and Bhutan announced an MoU that puts in place a three-stage process toward resolving their longstanding border differences. This merely represents a statement of intent — not a settlement of their dispute. While New Delhi was aware of the negotiations between Beijing and Thimpu, multiple sources have confirmed to this writer that it was not formally informed of the specifics of the pact before it was announced. It’s easy — and understandable — to look at everything that Bhutan does through the prism of the India-China rivalry. Yet this tiny Himalayan nation might be doing the unthinkable: presenting a test to both its giant neighbours at the same time. China’s foreign policy approach to the rest of the world might be characterized by its so-called ‘wolf warrior diplomacy’ — an in-your-face, aggressive use of public platforms to bully those who challenge Beijing’s narrative. Yet it has been cautious not to alienate Bhutan through intemperate language, even when tensions between the two nations have been high, as during the Doklam stand-off. Now Beijing wants to go one step further, with a border settlement. In the 1990s, China struck a slew of border deals with neighbours, including Russia, to settle long-festering disputes. But in recent years, an assertive China has sparked territorial tensions with multiple neighbours across East, Southeast and South Asia, especially through its outlandish claims over the South China Sea. As Beijing faces a growing pushback in its neighbourhood and across other parts of the world, from Europe and America to Australia and Africa, it would make sense for it to try and fix its border woes one by one, instead of firefighting on multiple fronts all at once. But given Xi Jinping’s maximalist approach to relations with other nations, will Beijing be willing to settle for a reasonable border agreement with Thimpu, or will it demand a deal that’s unfair to Bhutan? It’s a question only China’s leadership can answer, and its response could define whether Bhutan emerges as an example of how others can trust Beijing on border negotiations or as evidence that the world’s second-largest economy is its biggest bully. Bhutan’s MoU with China also poses a challenge to India. Although Bhutan’s economy is dependent on aid from New Delhi, the small but proud nation is increasingly keen to assert its independent stature in the global comity of nations. Bhutan’s officials and many of its youth did not like India’s heavy-handed approach to the Doklam crisis when New Delhi publicly cited its 1949 security pact with the nation to justify sending troops there. Yes, Chinese troops had grabbed territory contested between Beijing and Thimpu but not once has Bhutan said that it asked India to send its soldiers. In the past, India hasn’t always been supportive of a border deal between China and Bhutan. If it reflexively chooses that path again, it risks standing on the wrong side of history. Talk to young people in Bhutan today and it won’t be long before you realize that most appear in support of a border resolution with China. To be fair, the Modi government’s response to the MoU has, so far, been mature. It has merely acknowledged the existence of that agreement, but has refused to pass any verdict on it in public. What New Delhi must now do is quietly offer Thimpu technical, diplomatic and other support for future border negotiations with China, including satellite imagery or historical maps that Bhutan might need to strengthen its case. India can help Bhutan negotiate with China from a position of strength. That way, New Delhi would force Beijing to demonstrate whether it is genuinely sincere about a fair border deal. Any settlement that leaves Bhutan happy would represent a victory for India. And if talks between Bhutan and China break down, it would serve as vindication of Xi’s inability to bring peace to his country’s borders. New Delhi won’t mind that outcome either.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-13
27-10-2021||Opinion||The White Sadhu||“Aap chronology samjhiye.” The Union home minister’s words, spoken in a different context, can now be justifiably hurled at one of his colleagues, Ashwini K. Choubey, the minister of state for environment, forest and climate change, who said, earlier this month, that the Centre is keen on changing the name of India’s first protected forest from Jim Corbett National Park to Ramganga National Park. Choubey’s reasoning, as is often the case with his brethren, was a mixture of half-truths and, hence, specious. He said — this is where he mixed up the chronology — that the reserve had originally been known as Ramganga National Park and was then named after Corbett. The truth is that the reserve forest had, in the beginning, been called Hailey National Park after Malcolm Hailey, the governor of the United Provinces, Corbett’s contemporary and a man who shared his peer’s passion for conservation. Independence, which, understandably, kindled the practice of renaming sites associated with colonial figures, led to Hailey becoming Ramganga — but only for a while. In 1956, a year after Corbett’s death far away from India, the tiger reserve was rechristened after him. This renaming was a curious case of reversal, wrote Stephen Alter (In the Jungles of the Night): a space of national importance was being named after a domiciled Englishman at a time when a young nation was energetically jettisoning its links with relics of colonial rule. What must be noted is that there was great public support in favour of the rebaptization, and not just from Corbett’s friends or admirers. Govind Ballabh Pant, Kumaon’s tallest freedom fighter and, subsequently, Uttar Pradesh’s first chief minister, was an enthusiastic proponent of Ramganga giving way to Corbett. Choubey’s other claim — that he was merely articulating the wish of the local people for another round of name-changing — deserves closer scrutiny too. This is because in spite of the ravages of time and development, Corbett’s name and legacy survive in the much-depleted wildernesses as well as in the surrounding, burgeoning habitations of what is now Uttarakhand, sustaining an allied tourism-based economy that is central to the survival of the local population. (Corbett National Park received 2.84 visitors in 2017-18; the figure was 2.83 lakh in 2018-19.) In fact, the spirit of this public reverence may have been instrumental in shaping the response of the Uttarakhand state government, which stated that it was not in favour of Choubey’s proposal. The state forest minister reportedly added, for good measure, that ‘Corbett’ does not merely signify a surname; it is an expression of ‘national pride’. This veneration — it would have horrified the self-effacing Corbett — has old roots. Readers, who have had the pleasure of leafing through Corbett’s original writings or, for that matter, Mahasweta Devi’s magisterial introduction to the Jim Corbett Omnibus translated in Bengali, would be knowledgeable about the reasons for this collective admiration. My India — the singular first-person pronoun is important in this context — offers the clearest evidence of Corbett’s organic relationship with, and kindred affection for, Kumaon and its hardy, impoverished, and, sometimes, chequered people. There is Sultana, the forest brigand, of whom Corbett writes: “Society demands protection against criminals, and Sultana was a criminal. He was tried under the law of the land, found guilty and executed. Nevertheless, I cannot withhold a great measure of admiration for the little man who set at nought the might of the Government for three long years, and who by his brave demeanour won the respect of those who guarded him in the condemned cell.” Jostling for space with Sultana on these pages are Budhu and Lala Jee, occupants of contrasting positions on India’s social pyramid — Budhu was a bonded labourer and Lala Jee a merchant — yet bound to each other by Corbett’s benevolence. And who can forget Chamari, an untouchable, whose death — Corbett battled the man’s cholera heroically but in vain — diffused the rigid boundaries of caste, however momentarily, at Mokameh Ghat? What makes My India striking is Corbett’s unambiguous personal investment in the lives and the welfare of his people. Significantly, Tree Tops, an account of Corbett’s brief brush with royalty, possesses very little of the naturalist’s characteristic warmth, empathy and energy; the narrative is almost sedate in Corbett’s customary reverence for the then princess, Elizabeth, and the Duke of Edinburgh, save for one revealing passage. During a dinner involving the regal dignitaries, a spirit lamp burst into flames. Even as “frantic efforts were being made to stamp out the blaze the African boy who had served dinner unhurriedly came forward, extinguished the flames with a wet cloth… and a minute later replaced the lamp refilled and relit on the table.” It is not difficult to guess with whom Corbett’s sympathies lay on that occasion. In India, his land, this benevolent man was known as the ‘White Sadhu’ in the nooks and corners of his beloved Kumaon. Yet, Mahasweta Devi informs us that within three months of Independence, Corbett decided to sell Garni House, his family home in Nainital, and move, along with his elder sibling, Maggie, to distant Kenya. Before leaving, he buried his favourite shikar weapons, three rifles and two shotguns, deep in the forest. What made the man — a white man who believed in astrology, a man who knew no home other than India — uproot himself? There are no clear answers to Corbett’s displacement till date. Ironically, Corbett’s uncontested fame as a sportsman seems to have eclipsed other aspects of his intriguing persona reflected in the scale of his conservation efforts in India and, in the dusk of his life, in Africa or his willingness to journey, at the age of 72, in search of a refuge that was not quite home. Is that because Indian historiography is quite often receptive to uncritical veneration but not to objective, if uncomfortable, enquiries into choices made by icons? Except for the royal adventure at Tree Tops, very little is known about the everyday life of a reclusive Corbett during his final years in Africa. Mahasweta Devi writes that the aged Corbett was often spotted — alone — on the balcony of the Outspan Hotel, feeding bits of cake and bread to birds (picture). Perhaps that is where Corbett belonged — and wanted to be — in an in-between realm visited by wondrous, wild creatures, away from the oppressive, disappointing bonds with men and nationhood. uddalak.mukherjee@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-13
