28-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Culled life||With the advent of the Covid-19 pandemic, normal life — in India and across the world — has been fundamentally disrupted. More worrying is the fact that the virus has also adversely affected life expectancy. A recent study has revealed that life expectancy at birth of both men and women in India decreased by around two years — from 69.5 years and 72 years in 2019 to 67.5 years and 69.8 years, respectively — in 2020 owing to Covid-19. The term refers to the average number of years that a newborn is expected to live if the mortality pattern at the time of birth remains constant in the future. Given that the number of Covid deaths in the country has by now crossed 4.5 lakh — this is the official tally — the drop in life expectancy is not surprising. The pandemic has even undone a decade’s efforts to increase life expectancy in the country — it has now regressed to the 2010 figures. But this is no reason to lose heart. Experts argue that such a decline is not uncommon after a health crisis of a massive scale — life expectancy in Africa had dropped drastically owing to the HIV/AIDS epidemic, but it recouped in a few years. The parity in the decline in life expectancy across the gender divide can be misleading: the impact of the pandemic on men and women has been far from equal. Globally, as in India, more women lost their jobs during Covid-19 than men. During the lockdown, this difference amounted to 40 percentage points. The burden of unpaid care work at home, exacerbated by the pandemic, also fell disproportionately on female shoulders. However, government outreach and palliative measures have not been weighted appropriately to correct this imbalance — even as India administered one billion jabs, official data indicate that 6 per cent fewer women are getting vaccinated. Other marginalized constituencies are being affected unevenly too. The pandemic’s wrath has fallen even more harshly on the transgender community — many have reportedly been deprived of even the subsistence allowance of Rs 1,500 pledged by the Union government. The inoculation campaign has, thus, been smeared by existing social cleavages. That the pandemic would curtail life was expected; but it is the duty of the government to ensure vulnerable constituencies are not disenfranchised — socially, economically and in terms of health. Vigilance and closer monitoring of the health and rightful benefits of women and those on the margins are key to equitable healthcare and quality of life.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-12
28-10-2021||Opinion||Letters to the Editor: Calcutta Metro bids farewell to non-AC rakes||Final goodbye Sir — The Metro Railway in Calcutta has formally bid farewell to the non-air conditioned rakes, some of which had been in service since its inception in 1984. When the AC coaches were first introduced, many of us were eager to travel on these as they provided respite from Calcutta’s sweltering heat and humidity. Over time, it became clear that the non-AC rakes provide much better ventilation when the coaches get crowded during rush hour. The rakes were, however, old and rickety and certainly needed to be retired. But those of us who have grown up with the old Calcutta metro — from going to college to ultimately braving the crowd for office — will always fondly remember the older coaches. Ananya Chakraborty,Calcutta Rough roads ahead Sir — Days ahead of the United Nations Climate Change Conference, 2021, a report from the UN has stated that the current commitments to cut down on greenhouse gas emissions are not enough and has predicted an about 2.7 degrees Celsius temperature rise for the planet in this century. It further revealed that countries will need to “redouble their climate efforts if they are to prevent disastrous global heating in the future”. This is a scary revelation and proves beyond doubt that the nations who were party to the Paris Agreement have failed to uphold their pledges. Australia, one of the world’s top polluters, has finally agreed to move towards zero carbon emissions by 2050 and Saudi Arabia, the biggest oil exporter, has committed to net zero emissions by 2060. According to experts, the countries should have set a much earlier date for achieving net zero emissions. Many other countries, including India, are yet to set a date. If this lackadaisical attitude does not change, there is no way that climate change can be stopped. Jang Bahadur Singh,Jamshedpur Sir — Every time a new report is released on the lack of progress made on mitigating climate change, countries around the world sit up and pledge to do better. But in reality, nothing changes. We are already heading towards catastrophe that will leave nations and communities struggling to survive. Unless countries collectively prioritize tackling climate change, the situation will get worse. Ritobroto Sinha,Calcutta Sir — The latest report on climate change by the UN is cause for concern. Many people who are sensitive to the needs of the planet argue for a transition from diesel and petrol-run vehicles to electric vehicles. But does it make sense to opt for EVs if the electricity comes from fossil fuel-powered plants? If we truly want to make a difference, countries must first transition from primary fossil fuel energy sources to renewable energy. This should be coupled with a drastic reduction in privately-owned vehicles. Anwar Saeed,Calcutta Sir — There is no doubt that EVs are the future of travel, but it is also time to reduce the number of private cars altogether. The pandemic has shown us that cycles are a sustainable, yet speedy, way of travelling across the city. We should adopt such measures without being prodded by the government if climate change is to be checked. Nitya Srivastav,New Delhi Tangled mess Sir — The accusations of intimidation and extortion in the Aryan Khan case should be a wake-up call for the country (“Aryan bail hearing continues”, Oct 27). While it is too early to gauge the entire truth, reports indicate that there is a larger conspiracy to implicate Khan and that the Narcotics Control Bureau officials are guilty of misconduct. Ever since the National Democratic Alliance came to power in 2014, the country has witnessed a trend of Central agencies selectively targeting political rivals and critics of the regime. Irrespective of which political party is in power, such blatant misuse of government agencies will destroy their credibility in the eyes of the people. Whether Khan is guilty or not is a matter of investigation and the courts will decide on the veracity of the charges. India is a democratic nation and one expects the custodians of law to conduct themselves accordingly. N. Sadhasiva Reddy,Bangalore Sir — The arrest of Aryan Khan on drug charges has captured the attention of the nation with news channels sensationalizing the story to maximize viewership. With new details emerging every day, the case has become a Bollywood drama in itself. Strikingly, Khan neither consumed nor possessed drugs but continues to be denied bail on the flimsy ground of ‘conscious possession’; the former attorney-general, Mukul Rohatgi, who appeared on behalf of Khan, argued that ‘conscious possession’ cannot be held against his client and that the small quantity of drugs recovered from Arbaaz Merchant, Khan’s friend who has been arrested for possession, is not enough to keep Khan in jail. The case is getting murkier and the charges levelled against Mumbai zonal director of the NCB, Sameer Wankhede, by one of its own witnesses has added a new twist. It will certainly be a long road to justice for Khan. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — The politicization of the Aryan Khan case has complicated matters. It is up to the courts to decide whether a person is guilty; yet many seem to be passing verdicts on a matter that is sub judice. This includes the Nationalist Congress Party leader, Chhagan Bhujbal, who remarked at a public event that drugs would become sugar powder if Shah Rukh Khan were to join the Bharatiya Janata Party. Whatever may be the truth, politicians should refrain from making such polarizing statements. K.V. Seetharamaiah,Bangalore Sir — The charges against Sameer Wankhede, if proven, will complicate the Aryan Khan case further. They must be cleared up at once. Shiuli Ghatak,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-12
28-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Unnecessary||Barely a few days after the Union home minister extended the Centre’s ‘hand of friendship’ to the youth of Kashmir, pleading with them to take an active role in dousing the fire of militancy, the Narendra Modi government has applied the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act — it is usually put in force to thwart terrorists — against students of two medical institutions in Kashmir for celebrating Pakistan’s victory over India in a recent cricketing contest. This is exactly the kind of provocative behaviour that restive elements have employed as bait. Unfortunately, India’s current rulers are only too eager to fall for it. The gains, presumably, are mutual. For Kashmir’s mischief-mongers, including extremists and lobbies sympathetic to them, India’s iron hand approach is profitable since it alienates large parts of the civilian population from the State. As for the Bharatiya Janata Party, it believes that unleashing the might of the State against a Muslim-majority province brings ready electoral benefits in other parts of India. The resultant civilian anomie and a dangerous political drift in the former state are of little concern to the party. The point made by the former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir, Mehbooba Mufti, merits examination in this context. Instead of being baited by hollow acts of provocation — a few pro-Pakistan slogans are unlikely to weaken Kashmir’s willing, historical embrace of India — the Centre must engage with representative stakeholders to identify and then eliminate the conditions that are the root cause of the incitement. But that would take an ideological somersault that the BJP is unwilling to perform. What is worrying is that the BJP and Kashmir’s provocateurs get away with this trick. This is indicative of the larger challenge confronting the Republic. Years of patient indoctrination as well as failures of liberal politics have resulted in the creation of a shrill nationalism that has, indeed, turned out to be the proverbial Tebbit test for patriotism. Be it the disproportionate show of strength in Kashmir or the vicious trolling of an Indian Muslim cricketer, each act is consistent with the larger polarization that the BJP has engineered across the nation’s body politic. A number of sporting personalities have condemned the targeted humiliation of Mohammed Shami but the Board of Control for Cricket in India was not among them. Does the BCCI’s pusillanimity have anything to do with its present office-holders? It is this kind of timidity, from influential institutions as well as civilians in general, that has veered India to the edge of a precipice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-12
28-10-2021||Opinion||Celebrating the spirit of cricket||Last month was difficult for Pakistan after New Zealand pulled out from its tour to Pakistan minutes before the first match was about to start. England, too, decided to cancel its tour following New Zealand’s decision. It made Pakistani cricket fans angry and dejected. Pakistan’s players were also disappointed. Yet, despite these happening just a month before the T20 World Cup, Pakistan’s players did not lose hope. These incidents seem to have strengthened their resolve as has been evident from the first two games of the tournament. Pakistan played against India in their first match at the T20 World Cup on Sunday. Their bowlers took wickets at the right time, restricting India to 151 runs in spite of India’s strong batting line-up. Shaheen Afridi and others bowled extremely well. Pakistan are a young and inexperienced side. Yet the opening pair chased the target without losing their wickets, helping Pakistan break the jinx against India. The rivalry between Pakistan and India on the cricket pitch is legendary. A match between the two neighbours gets the most eyeballs and generates an adrenaline rush. Pakistan and India don’t get to play against each other except in ICC tournaments. The absence of Pakistani players from the Indian Premier League as well as the discontinuation of bilateral series with India is unfortunate. We saw Virat Kohli’s graceful gesture after India’s defeat against Pakistan and everyone appreciated the camaraderie between him and Pakistan’s opening duo at the end of the match. This is what sportsmanship and the spirit of cricket are all about. Mohammad Rizwan tweeted his support for Mohammad Shami because he understands the “pressure, struggles & sacrifices a player has to go through for his country”. Rizwan said that Shami is one of the best bowlers in the world and should be respected: “This game should bring people together & not divide ‘em.” And this is why when New Zealand abandoned their tour of Pakistan last month, their captain, Kane Williamson, had called it a “real shame”. As a player, he understood what Pakistan’s players must have gone through. On Tuesday, Pakistan beat New Zealand in a game that was being touted as a ‘grudge match’. To win two games in a row under the circumstances that Pakistan has had to face — from discrimination from the ICC when it comes to Test matches and other competitions to top cricket teams refusing to tour Pakistan — shows the resilience of the side. They have proved that they are a force to reckon with on account of sheer hard work and talent. Of course, many matches remain to be played in the T20 World Cup but the first two wins have given Pakistani fans something to celebrate after a long time. The Pakistan Super League has obviously helped the youngsters. It has given them exposure to international players and coaches. From improving their fielding to polishing their raw talent when it comes to bowling and batting, Pakistani players have come a long way. This league has brought young stars under the limelight. Haris Rauf, who comes from a humble background, being a case in point. To see him where he is today makes cricket special. Sports should be above politics and favouritism. Sport unites people; it should be celebrated as such. The Big Three should not have a monopoly over the game just because they bring in the most revenue. All cricketing teams work hard and want to give the game their best. Cricket brings us joy as well as heartbreak. We have witnessed a number of heart-breaking moments in our cricketing history but even then we continue to watch the game, get excited when things are going well, and bite our nails, pull out our hair and wear our hearts on our sleeves when things don’t. Cricket is worth all the tears and celebrations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-12
28-10-2021||Opinion||Selective outrage||The attacks on Bangladeshi Hindus and their religious institutions that began with the desecration of a Durga Puja in Comilla district, quite expectedly, provoked a strong emotional reaction in West Bengal. Although the reaction was nowhere as profound as some militant Hindu organizations and the state Bharatiya Janata Party had hoped for, it was still significant enough to warrant a mild diplomatic reaction from the ministry of external affairs in Delhi. What perhaps contributed to the emotional outbursts in West Bengal being kept under check was the evidence that — notwithstanding ugly manifestations of jihadi fervour in the districts — the Awami League government of Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina Wajed had taken strong measures to prevent Bangladesh from being engulfed in a one-sided communal conflict. Certainly, the discovery that the provocative act of placing a copy of the Quran at the feet of Hanuman was the responsibility of a local Muslim helped bring the situation under control. It is entirely possible that the present round of attacks on Hindus which led to temples run by Iskcon and the Ramakrishna Mission being vandalized, not to mention the destruction of reportedly 400 to 500 Hindu homes, will have only a nominal effect on the political narrative in West Bengal. There is a significant section of the population in eastern India — but particularly in West Bengal, Assam and Tripura — that comprises people whose families were uprooted from East Pakistan/Bangladesh at different points from 1947 to now. Mainly Hindus and Buddhists, they were the victims of religious persecution. They left their ancestral homes to avoid forcible conversion and maintain their traditional ways of life in India. From the 1950s to the 1970s, the refugees — particularly those from bhadralok background — had been the mainstay of the Left mobilization in Calcutta, the 24 Parganas and Nadia districts. Indeed, the communist movement in West Bengal can be said to have been nurtured by the erstwhile refugees. That, however, was a long time ago. There is feeble evidence to suggest that a generation which grew up in the shanty refugee colonies on the periphery of Calcutta and heard countless tales of the bitter experience of Partition and its aftermath from their parents and grandfathers feels sufficiently for those Hindus who chose to stay put in Bangladesh. This relative disinterest cannot be explained by any political apathy. The refugee movement that gave the Congress governments of B.C. Roy and Prafulla Chandra Sen a torrid time with its demands for squatter rights were by no means apolitical or (to use Marxist terminology) narrowly economistic. This movement, after all, supplied the leadership of all the Left and ultra-Left parties. Perhaps the reason can be located in the manner in which the communist parties manipulated the refugee anger. It is significant that the thrust of the refugee movement was directed at improving the living conditions of the uprooted peoples and securing them rights over the land they had occupied after coming to Independent India. The communist parties tried to breed an internationalist outlook among their supporters. But whereas this ranged from denouncing American imperialism and expressing solidarity with the struggles in Korea, Vietnam, South Africa and, of late, Palestine, there was no attempt whatsoever to ask why they had become refugees in the first place. The entire experience of being uprooted from eastern Bengal and the migration to India was sought to be masked in silence and denial. Unlike northern India where popular novels such as Tamas and Train to Pakistan played an important role in shaping consciousness, the focus in Bengal — witness the films of Ritwik Ghatak — was on the experiences and struggles in the refugee camps. There was no pre-history to people becoming refugees. Very few people, for example, were ever to know that one of the more prominent CPI leaders of North Calcutta had been brutally gang-raped by Muslim League vigilantes while fighting for peasant rights in East Bengal. They were not to know that the father of a CPI(M) leader, who subsequently became mayor of Calcutta, had been buried alive by a vengeful mob during the Partition riots. These and other stories, particularly the tales of the horrific riots after 1950, were conveniently erased from the popular imagination. Indeed, it wasn’t until recently that the selective targeting of East Pakistan’s Hindu minority by the Pakistan army and local Razakars during the liberation struggle was formally acknowledged. Facets of the history of the Hindu minority on the wrong side of the Radcliffe Line were no doubt unearthed during the debates that raged in the wake of the passage of the citizenship laws in 2019-20. However, even this was subsumed by the shrill and specious propaganda that the Citizenship (Amendment) Act sought to deprive Indian Muslims of citizenship rather than formalize Indian citizenship for those who fled religious persecution in the aftermath of Partition. The argument that too much dissection of history will promote communal polarization is a theme that resonates in West Bengal. It is intimately linked to the vagaries of electoral politics that saw the Trinamul Congress win a resounding majority in the assembly elections earlier this year based on its ability to secure near-total support of the 27 per cent Muslim electorate. The fear that highlighting the precarious condition of Hindus across the border will heighten the consolidation of Hindus behind the BJP was undoubtedly behind the indifference of the state’s otherwise vocal intelligentsia and civil society organizations to the recent incidents in Bangladesh. Whereas there were spirited protests by ‘secular’ Bangladeshis against the attacks on Hindus, their compatriots in Calcutta chose to look the other way, even explaining away the attacks as similar to what Muslims experience in India. The notables in West Bengal appear to have taken their cue from Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and her party functionaries who didn’t react to the turbulence in Bangladesh. Unlike the Narendra Modi government at the Centre, the state government didn’t even have to be mindful of geo-strategic complications. The historical and political narratives in West Bengal centred on Hindu Bengalis suffer from an imbalance. Unless this is addressed both politically and intellectually, the collective interests of the community are calculated to be relegated to the footnotes of statecraft.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-12
