29-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: High pitch||Admiration for national heroes comes naturally to the citizenry. Problems are bound to arise when an elected government deems it necessary to impose a template of reverence. The ministry of education has asked students of central board schools as well as state authorities to prepare projects on the lives of the winners of Gallantry Awards under a month-long ‘Veer Gatha Project’. According to an official circular, the initiative aims to “disseminate the details of acts of bravery and the life stories” of armed forces personnel, thereby raising awareness among schoolchildren about the magnitude of the sacrifices made by those who guard the nation. The initiative has been lauded by several educationists who opine that interactive projects — the defence ministry will organize hour-long programmes for schoolchildren — can help students learn about topics of importance in a more comprehensive manner than can be achieved through rote-learning. Recognizing valour is important. But the methodology of doing so merits examination in the light of the fact that the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government has not only been guilty of encroaching upon educational curriculum but also rolled out several programmes with a pronounced ideological tilt in the garb of celebrating ‘Indian heritage’. Take, for instance, Yoga Day; it aims to instil a holistic approach to health but, curiously, coincides with the death anniversary of K.B. Hedgewar, the founder and first sarsanghchalak of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh. The celebration of Hindi Divas had also drawn attention after the Central Board of Secondary Education tweeted that Hindi is “our identity”. The Veer Gatha Project must, therefore, not be allowed to go the way of other seemingly innocuous programmes that seek to surreptitiously indoctrinate young minds in a particular ideological — militaristic? — mooring. Such a proclivity not only infringes upon the autonomy of educational institutions — they, not the government, should have the right to frame curricula — but also presupposes that citizens need to be tutored on the mores of reverence. There is also the question of developing independent, critical thinking as opposed to instilling passive admiration. Would students be allowed to appreciate not only valour but also the conditions — political, historical and strategic — that compel India’s brave jawans to make the ultimate sacrifice?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-12
29-10-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: ‘Visible cracks’ in the judicial infrastructure||Plug the gaps Sir — The revelations by the Chief Justice of India, N.V. Ramana, bring to focus how one of the pillars of democracy — the judiciary — is prevented from functioning effectively owing to inadequate infrastructure (“Visible cracks”, Oct 27). Almost 20 per cent of the judicial officers in the country do not have proper courtrooms to sit in. Discrimination against women is evident from the lack of basic facilities for them — 26 per cent of court premises have no separate toilets for women while 16 per cent have no toilets at all. Only 54 per cent courts have purified drinking water facilities. Although computerization is of paramount importance for speeding up work, only 27 per cent of courtrooms have computers on judges’ dais. In order to improve access to justice, good judicial infrastructure is a must. The failure to deliver timely justice affects India’s annual gross domestic product. There is an urgent need to rectify these deficiencies. Venu G.S.,Kollam, Kerala Sir — The CJI must be credited for bringing to the fore sordid figures that underline the alarming lack of infrastructure in India’s courts at an event attended by several judges, the Maharashtra chief minister and even the Union law minister. The problems include a lack of toilets, drinking water, medical facilities, library, record rooms, computers on judges’ dias with videoconferencing facilities, and so on. The failure to provide timely justice is, in turn, costing the country as much as 9 per cent of the annual GDP. The CJI advocated financial autonomy for the judiciary. A proposal has been sent to the law ministry for the establishment of the National Judicial Infrastructure Authority. It is hoped that improvements shall be made on this front. Jahar Saha,Calcutta Sir — The ‘visible cracks’ in the judicial infrastructure highlighted by the CJI need to be looked into seriously and fast. The plight of the court premises across the country is akin to the situation in government schools. They must be upgraded in keeping with the prime minister’s vision of New India. It is heartening that the Union law minister has extended his support for a robust judiciary. K. Nehru Patnaik,Visakhapatnam Sir — The CJI must be thanked for rightly advocating financial autonomy for the judiciary. This suggestion must be taken seriously if the gaps in the judicial system are to be plugged. Even 74 years after Independence, the infrastructure of lower courts in almost every part of India is in bad shape. This affects the smooth functioning of the judiciary. The indifference of the government regarding this issue is palpable since little is being done to improve the situation. The Centre is spending crores on the construction of a new Parliament complex, but funds for new court buildings remain sparse. Arun Gupta,Calcutta Sir — The list of inadequacies in judicial infrastructure in India is baffling. Now that light has been shed on the matter, one hopes for swift redressal of the problem. Suravi Jaiswal,Delhi Stand together Sir — In a shocking coup d’état, the Sudanese military arrested the country’s prime minister, Abdalla Hamdok, and some other politicians (“Sudan military dissolves civilian govt”, Oct 26). Soon after, it declared a state of emergency and dissolved the ruling Sovereign Council. Following the coup, international aid to Sudan has decreased significantly. The people of Sudan have taken to the streets in the capital city of Khartoum to protest against the military takeover. The international community must come forward to help restore democracy. Shubham Prajapati,Ujjain Sir — The recent military coup in Sudan is following a script that is eerily similar to those in countries that experienced Arab Spring movements at the turn of the last decade. In Egypt, for instance, the armed forces aided the removal of the incumbent president, Hosni Mubarak, and then oversaw a transitional period during which the country’s first democratic elections took place. However, within two years, the army seized power in a coup. In Sudan, the government was overthrown in a military coup after prolonged protests two years ago. However, in spite of promising a civilian government after a short transitional period, the army has now taken over. International pressure is essential if Sudan is to emerge as a democracy. Otherwise, the people’s protests would have been in vain. Mainak Pal,Calcutta Seasonal concern Sir — Every year, fear for the safety of the Mullaperiyar dam surfaces during the rainy season. When the rain goes away, this fear, too, subsides. The chief minister of Kerala, Pinarayi Vijayan, has stated that there is nothing to fear about the dam. He has even warned of legal action against those who spread rumours about the safety of the dam. However, this was not his opinion during the reign of the United Democratic Front. Back then, Vijayan led the agitation for the decommissioning of the dam from the front. Changing positions on dam safety has become a part of politics in Kerala. K.A. Solaman,Alappuzha, Kerala  Steep cost Sir — Even in an age of shrinking personal income, chasing brand names remains a habit for many. A recent study has revealed that buying the base model of the new iPhone 13 will set the typical Indian wage-earner back by earnings worth some 720 working hours — the second-highest among the nations analysed. But this did not hinder pre-orders from more than 20 lakh Indians. Given the steady increase in unemployment in the country, one wonders if putting the amount in a retirement fund would not be a more judicious choice. Is trading future security away for a branded status symbol the best use of one’s savings? Ishani Chanda,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-12
29-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Fresh air||The bugbear of national security, a favourite pet of authoritarian regimes, has received a resounding rap on its knuckles from India’s enlightened judiciary. In an unambiguous denouncement of the tactic adopted by the Narendra Modi government to stonewall public enquiries into allegations of the deployment of sophisticated surveillance technology against Indian citizens — they include journalists, activists, politicians and even doctors and judicial functionaries — the Supreme Court has decided to form a committee, overseen by a former judge, that will look into every aspect of the Pegasus snooping scandal and submit a report within a specific time frame. Among the several points raised by India’s highest court, two are of critical importance. First, the learned judges, falling back on the principles of the K.S. Puttaswamy case, have clearly stated that while the right to privacy may not be absolute, it is sacrosanct and integral to human dignity and autonomy. Consequently, invoking the rhetoric of national security, as Mr Modi’s government has done, to justify the violation of individual privacy cannot be condoned. The court’s censure is of paramount importance given the propensity of elected regimes to stifle dissent and, in the process, democracy by spouting a specious argument concerning threat to the nation. Second, in one fell swoop, the court has exposed the Centre’s complicity in encouraging obfuscation in the crucial matter: this amounts to wilful deprivation of citizens’ rights on the part of the government and soils the compact between State and people. The outcome of this order can play out at multiple levels. It will provide political oxygen to Mr Modi’s opponents — Rahul Gandhi has taken the lead — to demand transparency from the regime not only on Pegasus but also on such other issues as the alleged loss of territory to China. The order could also generate momentum for demands of re-examining the evidence against those accused in the Bhima Koregaon case. Perhaps the surest way of honouring the spirit of this judicial intervention would be to kindle a wider public campaign to make institutions and the government accountable for the upholding of rights. This is an imperative, given Mr Modi’s push to leash fundamental rights to the yoke of ‘public duty’. Hearteningly, the pronouncement reiterates the apex court’s uncontested legacy as the custodian of civil rights and freedoms and would go some way in soothing anxieties about the judiciary and the executive speaking in a similar voice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-12
29-10-2021||Opinion||Old methods||The National Institutional Ranking Framework has revealed the top 100 institutes in India based on pedagogy, performance and research outputs. But regardless of ranks, journalism education in several institutes has been witnessing numerous challenges owing to lack of adequate infrastructure and appropriate pedagogy, and a dearth of trained teachers. Theory and praxis are drawing flak; pedagogy is undergoing a litmus test and posing an inquiry into the genesis of such education as a discipline. Moreover, amid the epidemic of fake and paid news, questions are also being raised about the efficacy of journalism education as a means of training aspiring journalists. The glaring gap between classroom training and industry requirements is widening. This calls for journalism education to reinvent itself. The Indian media and entertainment industry has made substantial strides and is slated to be worth Rs 4 lakh crore by 2025. A lion’s share of this would belong to news media. But often there is a mismatch between the required and available human resources in the market. People who are at the helm of journalism education should mull over this. Media technology has brought sea changes, opening up ample avenues in the profession. The advent of technology like augmented reality, virtual reality and artificial intelligence has disrupted work culture in the newsrooms. Multimedia storytelling is now prioritized. However, several journalism schools have not taken stock of these changes. In fact, some institutions are still using old syllabi and techniques. It is worth noting that a handful of private institutes are performing remarkably better than the government-funded institutions. Be prepared Journalism education during the pandemic has been a sheer inconvenience and there have been serious lapses in the inculcation of a professional spirit. Students are unable to hone certain practical skills, which remain the mainstay of the journalistic profession. Then there is the question of specificity. Developmental journalism is important in the Indian context given the numerous socio-economic issues plaguing the nation. But this beat is not prioritized in academia. Aspiring journalists are not equipped to report on marginalized sections like those with disabilities, Dalits, adivasis, LGBTQIA+, migrant and domestic labourers and so on. Classroom pedagogy has miserably failed to cover issues in rural India too. With Covid-19 wreaking havoc, health reporting has become the need of the hour. But pedagogy has precious little to offer in this regard. Conflict reporting is rarely dealt with in the pedagogical framework. Classroom teaching is yet to think over the trauma of working journalists. There has been little discussion on sustainable development goals. Lack of specializations in journalism education, thus, leaves several lacunae. There has been a dearth of trained journalists to cover public policy and international affairs. Most journalists learn these skills on the job. These aspects need to be judiciously inculcated into the curriculum. Journalism institutes and educators need to revamp the course curriculum to keep pace with the requirements of the industry. In order to train future journalists, teachers should attend journalism-specific faculty development programmes, especially on innovations in the field. There also needs to be an overhaul in terms of imparting skills like writing with clarity, organizing ideas and working efficiently as a team. Journalism administrators and educators need to be equipped with the skills; only then can these be delivered to future stakeholders. Journalism education across government-run and private institutions need to move forward and inculcate a pragmatic approach to journalism education with the use of latest digital media tools.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-12
29-10-2021||Opinion||A nation soiled||The drumbeats of celebration that marked 20 years of Narendra Modi’s public life have to be confronted. One has to admit that when the media become an inane chorus, dissent is not easy. One experiences a sense of despair. At these times, I remember the dictum of my old philosophy teachers — read the silences of the regime. One has to begin by confronting the presence of Modi himself. The Modi that confronts us today is not the ‘fascist’ that the psychologist, Ashis Nandy, encountered during the Ramjanmabhoomi movement. This Modi is a new incarnation, a post-truth creation, which is part-fiction. He is a simulacrum of imagined competencies. He goes beyond the Orwellian condition in his imaginary exercises. Modi’s alleged majoritarianism can be read beyond the claims of stability. It is a soft totalitarianism, which has created a flatland of majoritarianism and mediocrity. By insisting on the patriotism of uniformity, the regime is systematically erasing dissent and the possibilities of difference, labelling them anti-national. As a result, minorities, the marginalized, and dissenting groups are being forced to confront the disabling civics of majoritarianism. It is true that Modi has innovated, but the real creativity of the regime lies in innovating and legitimizing new forms of violence. What was seen as pathology during the 1984 Sikh riots became the normalcy of the next few decades. Today, riots have become part of policy, a way of achieving and consolidating power. Riots have to be seen as a way of rewriting history. Connected to this is the purpose the perpetrator senses that he is redeeming and rectifying history. But the violence is also symbolic. The suppression of dissent is stark. The creation of the fiction of ‘urban Naxal’ allows the regime to harass a Stan Swamy or a Sudha Bharadwaj. Such a tactic began with the targeting of environmental dissenters as unpatriotic for being critical of development. The inanity of the Centre’s idea of development acquires a halo through its use of force. Minorities are not the only ones being threatened. The Covid era has reinforced this perspective through the sheer inhumanity inflicted on the informal economy. The informal worker is now a dispensable object, raw material for the construction industry. A regime that tom-toms well-being has no sense of workers’ rights. In fact, citizenship has been the biggest casualty of the regime as the informal worker, farmer, minority, academic, dissenter — everyone becomes less than equal in this Modiesque Animal Farm we call India. India’s image as a hard State is now complete. This imagery is consolidated by Modi’s claim that India should become the world’s greatest military power. One senses an unreal machismo driving the regime’s pretensions. Violence to the body and the body politic is accompanied by a post-Orwellian language. The word, normal, is a favourite term. Muslims subjected to brutality were asked to normalize as soon as possible. Modi went one up by clinging to the idea of a post-normal society, which erases memory and indicates that the pathologies are here to stay. The subtleties of the regime appear when an aspirational society sees dissent, marginality, obsolescence as stigmas of defeat. Between stark violence and the pathologies of language lies the sheer mediocrity of ideas. One sees it in a foreign policy where India has little to offer beyond mimicking Israel. It has forgotten the Rohingyas and is indifferent to the Afghan crisis. The language of ethics and suffering is missing in its analysis as morality gets reduced to an idiotic idea of securitarianism. Whether it is in confronting China or playing puppet to the United States of America, India has forged a new obsequious nationalism, a stance devoid of ideas, where pomposity hides cowardice. The third crassness is the sheer inability to allow institution-building. One undermines the court by attempting to create a commonality of politics with judges. More insidiously, the regime has undermined the university from a domain of ideas to a tutorial college where ideas are instrumental. The decline of the university will damage India’s future even as Modi treats knowledge like a mall, collecting little trophies. Science and media are the two great casualties of this regime. Today, we cannot spot the difference between a hand-out, an advertisement, and a report. Science as a way of life and thinking loses its playfulness when instrumentality takes over. A regime that spouts certainty has no sense of doubt. By emasculating civilization, it has created a monster nation state. Deep down, the Modi regime has no sense of future. All it wants is to stay in power. The idea of India is reduced to little certainties. India is an idea of clichés. What does a citizen do in such a situation? Pretending to be indifferent will not do. I remember an elite bureaucrat telling me, ‘My children are both non-resident Indians; Modi means little to me.’ A citizenship reduced to spectatorship, or a life built on privacy, is inadequate as public spaces become empty and the politics of civil society is rendered almost non-existent. One needs to invent a new semiotics of protest around new ideas, new forms of refusal. Civil society must adopt the idea of the Anthropocene where swaraj challenges a muddled and soiled swadeshi. Civil society must refuse to turn Afghanistan or the Rohingya into spectacles. Small forms must portray a different story, the silence of the argumentative media must be broken so that the regime is met by layers of doubt and scepticism. Democracy has to be reinvented because the regime is enforcing a particular variant of authoritarian electoralism and claiming legitimacy. It is not electoralism but the adda politics of the 1960s, a revival of the civic realm, that we need. The return of the argumentative Indian would be the first sigh of political life. Let us begin with the following steps: recognition of the informal economy and a response to the farmer crisis; a revival of the university; a different way of creating cities with subaltern imaginations; and, finally, bring nature into the Constitution as a person, not as the Public Works Department. One needs an exorcism of the current electoral self in which numbers substitute norms. An inventive civil society and a pluralistic vision of civilization might be the beginning of a more playful satyagraphic era, challenging the inanity of the nation state. Shiv Visvanathan is an academic associated with Compost Heap, a network pursuing alternative imaginations||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-12
