30-10-2021||Opinion||Letters to the Editor: SC forms panel to probe Pegasus snoopgate||Mind the minders Sir — The Supreme Court order for an independent probe into the possible use of the Israeli spyware, Pegasus, to spy on Indian citizens is welcome (“Fresh air”, Oct 29). The apex court has decided to form a committee, overseen by a former judge, that will look into every aspect of the Pegasus snooping scandal and submit a report within a stipulated period of time. Over the last few years, people have become increasingly disenchanted with government institutions which have rebuffed any demands for transparency by citing ‘national security’. Hopefully, this court-mandated probe will compel the government to come clean about its involvement in the Pegasus affair. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — The Supreme Court’s statement that the government cannot get a free pass every time by raising the spectre of ‘national security’ will have implications beyond the Pegasus scandal. Nobody will deny that national security is of paramount importance, but it is imperative that a democratic nation ensures the right to privacy of all its citizens. The Pegasus row has raised uncomfortable questions about unlawful surveillance by the government. The Centre must answer for its missteps. Iftekhar Ahmed,Calcutta Wrong decision Sir — There is no denying that Kangana Ranaut is a fine actress. She fully deserved to win the three national awards for Fashion, Queen and Tanu Weds Manu Returns. However, this year’s national award for best actress — it is her fourth win overall — reeks of favouritism. There is no way that her performances in Manikarnika and Panga can be considered worthy of this prestigious award. There were clearly other considerations at play. Anthony Henriques,Mumbai Sir — Kangana Ranaut may be a good actress, but Manikarnika was one of the worst films I have had the misfortune of sitting through. Ranaut was awkward and stiff and the script was lacking, if not borderline absurd. She should not have won the national award for best actress this year. Ankita Dey,Calcutta For the people Sir — The chief minister of Tamil Nadu, M.K. Stalin, has always been sensitive to the plight of Sri Lankan Tamil refugees. In August, the government had announced welfare measures worth around Rs 317 crore for the refugees living in special camps in the state. Recent reports indicate that the government is also planning to announce a housing scheme on Diwali. Such moves have truly endeared Stalin to the people of Tamil Nadu. Ravi Iyer,Chennai  Facile change Sir — Mark Zuckerberg seems to be under the impression that changing the name of Facebook to Meta would be the solution to all its woes. The rebranding exercise comes after Frances Haugen, a former employee of the company, laid bare its faulty algorithm that amplifies hate speech and encourages violence. The company is clearly trying to divert attention from the current crisis. But such tactics are unlikely to go down well with lawmakers who are keen on holding the social networking giant accountable. At this point, no amount of damage control can save Zuckerberg. Anamika Saha,Calcutta Parting shot Sir — Children these days are constantly exposed to electronic gadgets. Any advice to engage in physical activities like sports or exercise falls on deaf ears. But parents must take an active role in breaking this habit. Kids must be encouraged to read more books, meditate, paint and so on so that they can grow up to be well-rounded individuals. However, it will only work if parents lead by example. Anushka Jaiswal,Ujjain||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-11
30-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Armageddon||Is the bottle half-empty? Or is it half-full? Unfortunately, the answer — even as 197 nations gather to wrangle in Glasgow, Scotland, for the United Nations Climate Change Conference of the Parties — is that the proverbial bottle of hope is fast running dry. Data from around the world are gloomy when it comes to the outcome of the battle to save the planet. The World Meteorological Organization has stated that greenhouse gas emissions had set a new, disturbing record and increased at a faster rate than that of the annual average of the last decade in spite of industrial activity being adversely affected by the Covid-19-induced pandemic. The reason is evident; the UN has acknowledged it by saying that at the present rate, as underlined by the voluntary pledges taken by nations as part of the Paris pact, GHG emissions will fall by 7.5 per cent by 2030 instead of 30 per cent that is necessary to limit global warming to 2 degrees Celsius. The weaker, populous economies are expected to share the burden of the impending disaster disproportionately. India, for instance, is set to experience heat waves that are “25 times longer by 2036-2065” if the rise of temperature is extreme. Smaller, coastal nations would fare worse. The damage to local and global ecologies would be of the scale of the mythical Armageddon. Economies would be scalded too: India is expected to lose 0.8-2 per cent of its gross domestic product in the future in the event of climate change remaining moderate. Several reasons have been cited to explain the existential crisis that mankind has scripted for itself. Competitive — conflicting — interests among the stakeholders are certainly a major factor. The unwillingness of the developed world to transfer technology and funds or, for that matter, its refusal to shoulder the historic burden of the crime, as was delineated in the Kyoto Protocol’s wise principle of ‘common but differentiated responsibilities’, is a testament to the persistent fault line. Orchestrated scepticism towards annihilation by a nexus of corporations and the State — Donald Trump was an embodiment of this cohort — aggravated by counter-narratives spouted in the Post-Truth order has further stymied urgent intervention. But the biggest challenge lies in a fundamental contradiction: industrialization and its attendant, capitalism, have severed humanity’s organic relationship with nature, fostering a neo-colonialism visible in the race among business tycoons to conquer other planets even as Earth is being destroyed methodically. The hope, only a glimmer of it, lies in the burgeoning, young, global community of climate activists. This constituency must be heard and then used as a force multiplier to turn climate change into a political issue. Only then would the somnolent political order that shapes policy wake up. Cop-26 perhaps offers the final opportunity for the world to engineer a course correction on global warming. If it does happen, it would be historic. Otherwise, both past and future would be erased.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-11
30-10-2021||Opinion||Pleaful song: Film on climate change for Cop-26 summit||For the next few days, the world will be focused on Cop-26 in Glasgow. Security will be tight so I would be surprised if protesters on issues like the farmers’ dispute or Kashmir get anywhere near Narendra Modi. Incidentally, Glasgow is a city I know well since my first big paper job was with the Glasgow Herald — I was based at 56, Fleet Street, London. I found the Scots to be the most generous people in the world. The Cop-26 president, Alok Sharma, is also someone I have known for a long time. I first got to know his father, Prem Sharma, a real pioneer who supported the Conservatives in Reading, which his son now represents in Parliament. Boris Johnson has given Alok quite a job in trying to get some 200 countries to agree to restrict the global temperature rise to below 1.5 degree Celsius. Looking at it narrowly, I feel something has to be done to tackle the worsening flooding in Calcutta. My brother-in-law tells me water entered properties in Belgachia. London has upgraded its storm drains and yet I am witnessing frequent flash flooding in many parts of the city. What is happening to the world’s climate is told very simply in a 24-minute animated film, Songs of the Earth, made by Soumik Datta, a young sarod player in London. The film, commissioned by the British Council, is due to be premiered at Cop-26 in Glasgow, with delegates being given a preview at 10, Downing Street. The film follows a little girl, Asha, a “climate refugee from Bengal, as she searches for her missing father through the flood banks of the Sundarban delta, burning forests and melting polar ice caps”. I have seen the film — it reminds me a little of the magical “Walking in the Air” from The Snowman and also Kipling’s The Jungle Book. Leading role In Abir Mukherjee’s new novel, The Shadows of Men, his fifth featuring Captain Sam Wyndham and Sergeant Surendranath Banerjee, the year is 1923 and Calcutta is engulfed in communal flames over the murder of a Hindu theologian. I am a third of the way through and intrigued by the appearance of “Subhasda”. He finds it ironic when Wyndham urges Britain’s nemesis to use his influence to stem the violence. This is Wyndham’s assessment of the future Netaji: “Like Suren, Bose was a Cambridge man and, by all accounts, just as full of himself.” I notice that Abir has got Suren to speak a lot more Bengali, with saheb readers left to work out the meaning from the context. Abir says that it is “a nice surprise the new book has been chosen by The Sunday Times as its book of the month for November. The FT has also featured it in their books of the month. The Times is also going to feature it among its historical fiction books of the month.” Old ties Apurv Bagri, the president and CEO of the metals group, Metdist, has been giving some thought to how he might mark his father’s Calcutta connection. Lord Raj Kumar Bagri, who died in 2017, aged 86, was born in Calcutta in 1930. He began at 15 as a filing clerk with the Binani Metals group, arriving in London in 1959 and rising to be chairman of the London Metal Exchange from 1993 to 2002. Apurv assures me that his father’s “affection for Calcutta never changed till the day he died. He regarded it almost as his spiritual home.” Apurv and his daughters, Aditi and Amisha, have a financial services company with deep roots in rural India. During the pandemic, it “bought oxygenators and paid for the vaccination of tens of thousands of people in the communities we serve. We have a very, very strong network across West Bengal.” Tough questions The BBC’s University Challenge posed “three questions on Hindu festivals” when four students from Emmanuel College, Cambridge, battled their counterparts from the Royal Northern College of Music. These were: “Which North Indian spring festival celebrates the story of Vishnu in his lion-man avatar, saving his devotee Prahlad? Celebrations can involve a bonfire, followed by the throwing of colours... “Commemorating Vishnu’s dwarf avatar and the subsequent homecoming of the mythical King Mahabali, the harvest festival of Onam is celebrated in which southern Indian state? Festivities include a boat race and a tiger dance. “The festival of Janmashtami celebrates the birth of which avatar of Vishnu born in... Mathura? He plays a major role in the Mahabharata.” Emmanuel correctly said, “Holi”, “Kerala” and “Krishna”. Meanwhile, on BBC Radio 4’s Brain of Britain, four contestants could not collectively answer questions sent in by a listener, Gurmit Singh: “In the fictional world, the character Sancho Panza, the companion of Don Quixote in Cervantes’s famous novel, is awarded a territory to govern as part of a prank. Can you name this territory?” The answer is: “Barataria Island.” Gurmit’s second question was: “In the real world, where can one find a genuine place called Barataria Bay?” The answer is: “The Gulf of Mexico on the coast of Louisiana, south of New Orleans.” Gurmit received (canned) applause — and a book token. Footnote There is no vacancy in 10, Downing Street, with prime minister, Boris Johnson, firmly in charge. But political journalists accuse the chancellor, Rishi Sunak, and the foreign secretary, Liz Truss (who was in India last week), of being on “manoeuvres” ahead of a possible future contest for the top job. This impression gained strength when ahead of the budget this week, “Dishy Rishi” released informal pictures of himself with his cute dog, Nova.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-11
30-10-2021||Opinion||Imagined realities||Muslim political leadership is one of the most misunderstood questions of our public life. A strong assumption — that there is a homogeneous Muslim community that does not have leaders, or the right kind of leaders, who can make the community modern, rational, secular and nationalist — continues to survive as the ultimate truth. Ironically, this strange belief is very powerful. Serious public intellectuals, journalists, and a section of scholars evoke the rigid Jinnah versus Azad binary as a criterion to evaluate the politics of contemporary Muslim leaders (such as Asaduddin Owaisi) as if nothing has changed in the last 75 years. The declining numbers of Muslim MPs and MLAs in the Lok Sabha and state assemblies are often cited to justify this kind of oversimplified explanation. The rise of Hindutva politics led by the Bharatiya Janata Party has given a new shift to this assertion. It is now claimed that the non-BJP parties are also not interested in giving tickets to Muslim candidates. As a result, there are only 27 Muslim MPs in the present Lok Sabha. This figure is slightly better than that of the previous Lok Sabha, which had only 23 Muslim MPs. This political decline, we are told, is inextricably linked to Muslim marginalization. No one can deny the significance of Muslim presence in legislative bodies. However, it does not mean that there is an organic relationship between Muslim MPs/MLAs and common Muslims. The hypothesis that if an opportunity is given to Muslim voters, they will eventually vote for a Muslim candidate is factually incorrect. Muslim communities vote in a highly diversified manner and their Islamic faith is one of the factors that influence their political preferences. Similarly, the popular imagination that Muslim MPs/MLAs function as Muslim delegates inside legislative assemblies is not entirely appropriate. Muslim elected leaders do raise Muslim-specific concerns and, in a way, contribute significantly to the inclusive character of legislative discussions. However, they also abide by the established norms of politics and behave like a typical neta. The official position of the party turns out to be the source of their political arguments, statements, and interventions. To explain these complexities, I propose an alternative analytical framework. In my view, two very basic features of Indian Muslim identity need to be acknowledged: i. the substantial sociological, cultural, and regional diversity that make Muslims a highly heterogeneous religious group and ii. the imagined and symbolic Muslim homogeneity that transforms them into a visible opponent of Hindutva. These crucial features of Muslimness provoke us to ask a few simple questions. What do Muslim communities think of Muslims leaders? What are their expectations? Do Muslims behave as a political community? Do they follow the advice given to them by Muslim religious elites/ulema or pressure groups such as the All India Muslim Majlis-e-Mushawarat? Is it alright to reduce the idea of Muslim leadership merely to elected MPs and MLAs? Is there any possibility to think of various kinds of Muslim leaders? Let me begin with the first set of questions. The CSDS Lokniti-APU’s three round, survey-based study, Politics and Society between Elections (2017-2019), explores several important questions to map out people’s perceptions of political elites. This comprehensive study covers 24 states with a nationally representative sample of more than 48,000 respondents. From our point of view, one particular question was very relevant: “Suppose there are two leaders from same political party and equally competent to get your work done. If one is from your religion while the other from a different religion. Whom would you be willing to contact first?" One finds a mixed response on this issue. Religious communities, it seems, do not overwhelmingly express trust in their leaders. This national pattern also corresponds to the Muslim views. A sizeable number of Muslim respondents (46 per cent) said that they would prefer to contact a Muslim leader. Interestingly, an equally powerful segment of Muslims (41 per cent) did not find this issue very pressing. For them, the religion of a leader did not bother them at all. Two crucial inferences can be drawn from these findings. It appears that Muslim communities recognize the significance of Muslim elected leaders simply to tackle everyday encounters with the administrative power structure. Secondly, and perhaps more importantly, this expectation is not overstated by a significant Muslim section. Muslim leaders are envisaged primarily as professional politicians who follow the usual rule of the game. This brings us to the second important issue: the role of the ulema in politics. Various studies conducted by the CSDS-Lokniti confirm that Muslims do not want the religious elite to support any political party. The “Religious Attitude and Behaviour Survey 2015” is very relevant here. This study tells us that a significant majority of Muslims do not want the ulema to indulge in electoral mobilization. Two examples are useful to elaborate this finding. The AIMMM decided to intervene in the electoral politics as a Muslim representative body in the mid-1960s. It published a nine-point People’s Manifesto to evolve an electoral strategy for Muslim voters for the 1967 general election. The Majlis resolution called upon the Muslim voters to vote for candidates irrespective of their religion, community, or party. It extended its formal support to 135 candidates in different states for the parliamentary elections. This formal electoral appeal to Muslims paved the way for what is now called strategic voting. A systematic analysis of the 1967 election demonstrates that out of 135 Majlis-supported candidates, only 42 managed to win elections. One also finds a similar trend in the state assemblies. The Majlis-supported candidates did not do well in most of the cases. Their performances were not up to the mark even in the Muslim-dominated constituencies. The political role played by the imam of Jama Masjid, Abdullah Bukhari, in the 1980s, especially his ‘election fatwa’, encourages us to also validate this point. Indira Gandhi discovered Bukhari as a Muslim leader in the early 1970s and nurtured his political aspirations. Bukhari, on his part, made full use of this political patronage. He transformed the historic Jama Masjid into a symbolic centre of Muslim politics to bargain with political parties. Bukhari consciously issued election statements (which were incidentally described as fatwas by the media) in support of the most powerful party/coalition: the Janata Party in 1977, the Congress in 1980 and in 1984, the Janata Dal in 1989 and the Congress, once again, in 1991. This strategy legitimized his status as the political Imam-e-Hind and consolidated the media-friendly argument that Muslims always follow the advice of the ulema and vote as a bloc. A closer analysis of these trends would suggest that Muslim leadership is a highly-diversified phenomenon. There are three distinct types of Muslim leaders, who perform very specific functions in different contexts. The Muslim elite is the first important category. An individual or a set of individuals, who acquire authority and influence over other members of their immediate Muslim community (communities) in a particular context primarily based on their social-educational status and class-caste position, may be described as Muslim elites. These privileged Muslims make use of their powerful Muslim presence to sustain the internal power structure among Muslim communities. The Muslim politician is a different category of leaders. These are the individuals who mobilize, or claim to mobilize, other members of the Muslim community (communities) in a particular context for a specific political purpose. Aspirant Muslim politicians and elected MPs/MLAs belong to this segment. Finally, there are Muslim influencers/activists. They engage with known or unknown Muslim-related issues and assert their presence in the media-driven public discourse. There is a need to explore the circulation of these three types of Muslim leaders at the grassroots level to understand the actual operational aspects of everyday Indian Muslim politics, especially in the present Hindutva-dominated context. Otherwise, we wouldn’t be able to get rid of the Jinnah-Azad syndrome. Hilal Ahmed is Associate Professor, CSDS, New Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-11
