31-10-2021||Opinion||Not that kind of sport||At last check cricket was a sport. Now, the dictionary defines sport as a type of physical activity people indulge in for enjoyment. Something about sport being derived from the Old French desport, meaning leisure — no word in there about it not being an enjoyment for any party or a proxy war. Cricket is a sport and yet one cannot be blamed for wondering who derived unadulterated enjoyment from the game played recently in Dubai between India and Pakistan. Not Virat Kohli going by the post-match presser — he seemed to be having a far better time when he was making witty posts about brand Wrogn in pre-match social media posts. Not the Twitterati, here or there, fixated as they were on settling scores instead of game and play and stroke. Not the Kashmiri students in Sangrur and Agra, Samba and Srinagar. Not Nasir Khuehami, national spokesperson of the Jammu and Kashmir Students’ Association — he reportedly spent long hours fielding calls. Nor the unsuspecting India cricketer Mohammed Shami. Certainly not the cheery schoolteacher in Udaipur who found herself suspended. And perhaps not all those cops on their toes. Though BCCI’s Maharaja had generously commented ahead of the match, “Pakistan is also a good team. If one or two players click, then anything can happen… It will be a great match,” there is no guaranteeing that it was unadulterated enjoyment that he experienced when the match got underway. Cricket qualifies as a sport, and enjoyment ought to be in the flick of a wrist, a lighting run, a smooth catch, and yet here was a match that was all about moves and counter moves, offenders and defenders off-field. Since we are talking about literal word meanings and etymology, let's look up the English word hate. The word sport may exist in every language of the world, dead and living, but chances are it would not be as nuanced as hate. Hate is derived from the Old English hatian. Linguist and etymologist Anatoly Liberman writes, “In Old English, only hatian has been recorded, and it meant 'to pursue'." Pursue as in chase, chase like chasing a score or runs or, to put it in the Old English way, hating for leisure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-11
31-10-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Chain that binds unites all factions||Chain that binds Sir — An Indian luxury brand has achieved what none else in the country could — in a political win, it brought the left, right, and centre factions of the country together in common cause over an utter distaste for a new product, designer mangalsutras. The overtly sexual tenor of the advertisement for the product has not gone down well. Some say it is too much empowerment, others say nobody asked for this specific type of empowerment, while most are too tired of the hype over what is, in essence, a piece of jewellery. Whatever the opinion, it marks a moment of historic unity. Shinjini Paul, Calcutta Dangerous lies Sir — It is shocking that the National Tiger Conservation Authority has found violations in the name of setting up a tiger safari project in the Corbett Tiger Reserve. Forged documents to justify illegal constructions and unsanctioned construction activities are some of the findings of the NTCA report. The report further highlights the dark underbelly of the Corbett park’s administration and its collusion with Uttarakhand forest officials to clear forest land for construction activities. National parks and reserves should be inviolable. Allowing any kind of construction activity inside them — no matter the reason — opens doors to all kinds of malpractices and is inimical to the interests of wildlife. M.L. Shah, New Delhi Too late Sir — The editorial, “Armageddon” (Oct 30), is timely and serves as a stern warning to humans. The time to act on climate change is now — it is already too late and any further delay will spell doom for the planet. Every single day that is wasted, brings us closer to a global catastrophe. Anwar Saeed, Calcutta Sir — The ‘armageddon’ is already here as the editorial of the same name underlines with hard, unpalatable facts. The Cop-26 is perhaps the last opportunity to take decisive action. India, the third-largest emitter of greenhouse gases after the United States of America and China, has already rejected calls to announce a net zero carbon emissions target and said it was more important for the world to lay out a pathway to reduce such emissions and avert a dangerous rise in global temperatures. The pathway has been laid out several times; it is now time to walk that path. Shobhita Singh, Raipur, Madhya Pradesh Growing presence Sir — It is good to see that the Olympic champion and sporting legend, Leander Paes, and the former swimmer and actress, Nafisa Ali, have extended their support to the Trinamul Congress in Goa (“Leander, Nafisa Ali join TMC in Goa”, Oct 30). This will no doubt help the TMC increase its footprint across india. The party’s landslide victory in the West Bengal assembly election caused much euphoria and attracted popular names to the party. It remains to be seen what role these inductees play in building a movement to stop the Bharatiya Janata Party juggernaut. Jayanta Datta, Hooghly Futile rules Sir — Pandemic-related restrictions have been extended till November 30 in Calcutta. Yet, it must be asked if these restrictions hold any real meaning. Both two and four wheelers ply on the streets even after the curfew. Many eateries, too, remain open after stipulated hours, while others down the shutters in name only while dishing out food to cars that line up outside them. Are these rules issued just to make the government look good on paper? Murtaza Ahmad, Calcutta Parting shot Sir — It is encouraging that steps are being taken to clean the Maidan of excrement from police horses (“Diapers for police horses”, Oct 30). But what about the stray animals that graze there? T. Mazumder, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-11
31-10-2021||Opinion||'Can't you see Lalu ji has come out all guns blazing?'||All guns blazing When the chief minister of Bihar, Nitish Kumar, said that his friend-turned-foe and Rashtriya Janata Dal chief, Lalu Prasad, could get him shot, it stunned everybody. Lalu reportedly asked if he indulged in such activities, asserting that he had only spoken about his arrival to ensure the immersion of the Kumar-led government. Then Lalu claimed that he had spoken to the Congress president, Sonia Gandhi, but Congress leaders denied it. Then he reportedly accused Kumar of not enquiring about his health when he was admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Delhi. But Kumar had earlier told his aides that he keeps a regular track of the RJD chief’s recovery. Lalu also called All India Congress Committee Bihar in-charge, Bhakta Charan Das, ‘bhakchonhar’ (stupid), leading to Congress workers burning his effigy in Patna. Then Lalu vowed to topple the National Democratic Alliance government and to uproot the Bharatiya Janata Party. “Can’t you see that Lalu ji has come out all guns blazing? He is not going to spare anyone. Hide, surrender or rally behind him, else you will be shot. And yes there will be no dearth of fireworks this Diwali,” said a senior leader who has worked long stints with both Kumar and Lalu. Latent grudges Younger leaders of the Congress were numbed into silence while the veterans were angry with reports of Prashant Kishor joining the party at a prominent position. While the senior leaders privately criticized Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra for the “immature handling” that led to rumours that Kishor will now revive the Congress, younger leaders suppressed their emotions out of loyalty. But as soon as indications of a fallout came, they erupted in joy, mocking the “consultant” who is available for hire. What is surprising is that Rahul and Priyanka met him several times, oblivious to the reservations among the rank and file. One leader said, “We have spent 40 years in Congress but haven’t been given 40 minutes of conversation with Sonia Gandhi or Rahul Gandhi. We have details of every constituency of our state in our mind but only those who explain through computer data are given importance. Our loyalty to party is obviously less valuable than ideology-neutral Kishor’s dalliance with every party.” Another leader pointed to Kishor’s intimacy with the former Punjab CM, Amarinder Singh, whose rapport with Amit Shah is no secret. Congressmen hope their top leaders do not fall into the trap of the Narendra Modi-Amit Shah duo by embracing Kishor again in the future. Real threat Many BJP leaders who got dropped from the Union ministry or had their  hopes of becoming ministers dashed have been approached by the Aam Aadmi Party, the Trinamul Congress or both. The two parties have been trying to spread wings across the country and are looking to rope in potential leaders. Internally, BJP strategists are happy that the efforts of the two parties will hurt their principal rival, the Congress. The latter has already accused the TMC of providing cover fire to the BJP in Goa, heading for polls. Some old-timers, however, feel this understanding is flawed. They fear that more than the TMC, the AAP poses a threat. It has been playing both the trump cards of the BJP — nationalism and Hindutva. A senior BJP leader, recently dropped from the cabinet, was amazed to receive a call from Arvind Kejriwal. But he soon realized the political project of the AAP chief. Fodder for thought The bypolls to the five seats in Assam on Saturday were not shorn of drama. While seeking votes for the ruling BJP and its ally, the United People’s Party Liberal, its star campaigner and CM, Himanta Biswa Sarma, equated the two parties to cows that will give 26 litres of milk a day instead of voting for the Opposition, which would not give any milk and, instead, have to be fed for five years. The Congress leader, Debabrata Saikia, responded by sending four kilogrammes of high-quality grass seeds each to the BJP state president, Bhabesh Kalita, and the UPPL chief, Pramod Boro. “I sent the grass seeds because of chief minister’s remarks during campaigning that BJP can give 26 litres of milk a day which the Congress and other parties can’t. We know cow gives milk but for that you need adequate and quality dana (fodder). As such I ordered high class grass seeds for the two parties so they can remain productive and our people can benefit,” Saikia said. Deep fissure The bypolls to two assembly seats in Bihar has, once again, revealed that all is not well between the ruling partners — the Janata Dal (United) and the BJP. The JD(U) is contesting both seats. The main opponent, the RJD, is all charged up with its national president, Lalu Prasad, campaigning for it, but the two ruling parties could not hold a single joint public rally to woo voters. “Nitish is behaving as if he is not bothered about us. Our party leaders have also campaigned half-heartedly. We hope the results will be in our favour,” a BJP leader said. A former minister and senior leader of the JD(U) pointed out that the two parties committed a similar mistake in the 2020 assembly elections and were almost swept out of power. “Nitish and the then deputy chief minister and BJP leader, Sushil Kumar Modi, did not hold joint campaigns. Though it cost us dear, nobody seems to have learnt from it,” he said. The two parties do not see eye to eye on many serious issues like the caste census and the National Register of Citizens. Either a miracle or the hunger for power keeps them together. Footnote The Odisha CM, Naveen Patnaik, recently dropped the minister of state for home, Dibya Shankar Mishra, who is caught in the Kalahandi murder case controversy, from his Mayurbhanj tour. While the Opposition is demanding Mishra’s resignation, the situation turned even more embarrassing for the Biju Janata Dal with one of its MLAs and editor-turned-politician, Soumya Ranjan Patnaik, raising uncomfortable questions about the functioning of the government in an editorial.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-11
31-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: The royal knot ||Everyone loves a wedding, but nothing rivals the fanfare generated by a royal wedding. Historically, royal marriages were matters of State, not of the heart. They were private affairs, used to cement alliances with either foreign nations or domestic noble families with an eye on perpetuating the monarchy. Royalty, today, is a relic of the past when it comes to wielding power. But royalty and its trappings have, in these modern times, been transformed into cultural capital meant to augment the hold of the State. The pomp and ceremony, thus, continue, but the patron is usually the government of the day. As usual, there is a quid pro quo. Royal weddings are designed to be surreal experiences that would help citizens forget their everyday trials and tribulations, the lapses of the State, not to mention the strain that monarchies put on the public exchequer. However, occasionally, royal weddings, while not being funereal, can be tempered in tone. Princess Mako of Japan, the emperor’s niece, has shown how. She married her college sweetheart in a quiet ceremony away from the public eye, even though this meant giving up her royal title. Significantly, the princess’s preference for moderation, for a discernibly ordinary life, has not gone down too well. Such was the public disapproval of her abdication that during the four years of her engagement she was diagnosed with post-traumatic stress disorder owing to the excessive online trolling. This exposes an interesting fault line. The royals are often the subjects of public ridicule; yet, an attempt on their part to turn the proverbial blue blood with a tinge of the mundane red variety is received with equal displeasure. Could it then be that there remain dregs of veneration — servility? — in the public consciousness for an institution even though it is no longer potent? There is ample evidence of public support for the other stunts that have been pulled off by royal households. For instance, the Harry-Meghan wedding, which began — ironically — with a sermon on wiping out poverty, cost £20 million in terms of security arrangements alone. But the people did not mind: apparently new lines were being broken with a woman of colour marrying into the British royal household. But some lines, especially the unbending ones held sacred by fuddy-duddy institutions, can hold firm — brutally so. The marriage of Prince Charles with Diana had been projected as an act of inclusiveness. Diana’s subsequent traumas — the result of a resounding cultural clash between hoi polloi and royalty — and Buckingham Palace’s unresponsiveness to her sufferings bear evidence that there need not be a happily-ever-after even in a carefully scripted union. The problem lies in the script. The royalty’s aversion to individual autonomy and its complicity in prioritizing the interests of the throne over rights and dignity can spell disaster for love. The wise Japanese princess, unlike Diana, had, perhaps, smelt a rat. Is it not better to taste love as a commoner than remain loveless as a royal?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-11
31-10-2021||Opinion||Slower pleasures||The CoP-26 conference in Glasgow begins today. I have been considering what I can do to help combat climate change. Eat less meat? Use an electric car? Heat pump instead of the old gas boiler? Take the train instead of a short-haul flight? All of the above, to be sure. But as someone who has spent much of his life flying around Europe, the last seems especially pertinent. Roughly half of all flights in Europe are short-haul, defined by the European Union as journeys of less than 1,500 kilometres. A detailed study by ETH Zürich university shows that short-haul flights on selected European routes from Zurich cause between three and nineteen times the CO2 emissions of an equivalent train journey. (Nineteen is Zurich-Milan: the shorter the route, the bigger the excess.) Britain’s Campaign for Better Transport recently staged a ‘race’ from central London to Glasgow city centre. The train passenger arrived just two minutes later than the person who came by plane, and the CO2 emissions were an estimated 20 kilogrammes, compared with 137 kg for the flight. But, this being Britain, the train ticket cost twice as much. That is not true everywhere. For example, in December, I have to get from Bremen, where I am speaking on a Thursday evening, to Bavaria, where I speak on the Friday evening. Until recently, I would just automatically have booked a flight. Now I find that there is an excellent inter-city train connection, which gets me from Bremen to Munich in five and a half hours. Yes, it takes a little longer than the flight, which would be just one and a quarter hours — and Lufthansa offers no less than five direct flights that day. But that does not take account of the car journey out to the airport, check-in and waiting time, and then the long drive in from Munich’s faraway airport. Unlike for London-Glasgow, the train is also cheaper: just 27.99 euros at the supersaver price. On top of that, the train journey will almost certainly be more enjoyable. None of those traffic jams on the way to the airport. No sweaty striptease at airport security, and weary standing around waiting for your flight to be called. No need to cram yourself into a narrow seat, packed like a sardine into a large metal tube filled with pressurized, recycled air. From the train, I will be able to view the gradually changing German landscape pass by my window; to read and write comfortably, with good Wi-Fi (although a patchy mobile signal); to get up, take a stroll, and have lunch in the restaurant car. Then I can step out at journey’s end, straight into central Munich. I recently came across some notes I made at a meeting of the parliamentary party of the then youthful German Greens in October 1984. Green MPs, I recorded, would in principle not use domestic flights inside Germany. ‘Here we are, protesting against Startbahn West [a new runway at Frankfurt airport],’ said one, ‘and then we fly from it!’ My notes have a tone of mild amusement, especially when someone confesses ‘I do take a Bundestag chauffeured car to the pub in the evening!’ But now I think to myself: if only the Greens’ approach had prevailed 40 years ago. Imagine that we had spent the last four decades prioritizing European rail connections over short-haul flights. Today, as the Greens prepare to take their place in a new German government, you can bet your bottom euro that airlines are quietly lobbying away, explaining the cost — also in lost jobs — of too rapidly slashing all those short-haul flights among European cities. Italy shows both what can be done and the possible cost. In the last two decades, it has built up an impressive network of comfortable, high-speed, inter-city trains. You can do Rome to Milan in two hours and 59 minutes. Alitalia, however, is no more. (Yes, I know the story of Alitalia is more complicated — but you get the point.) In a public opinion poll conducted last year for my research team in Oxford, respondents across the EU-27 and the UK were asked: “To help combat climate change, would you support a ban on short flights to destinations that could be reached within 12 hours by train?” Almost two thirds of them (65 per cent) agreed. One reason for the high level of support may be that relatively few Europeans actually do much intra-European flying: 76 per cent told us they fly within Europe once a year or less. It’s frequent travellers like me who are the problem. On our project website, we have a map showing how far you can get from Berlin, Brussels and Paris in a train journey of up to 12 hours, including transfer time: from Brussels to Barcelona, for example, or from Paris to Berlin. That 12-hour goal may be overambitious. But a radius of, say, six hours’ time distance, established as a norm by individual travellers and employers, is surely not unrealistic. To move more rapidly from short-haul plane to train, we need change on the demand side (that’s us), the supply side and the regulatory framework. The EU is trying to play some role here. I bet you didn’t know that 2021 is the European Year of Rail. Brussels recently sent a Connecting Europe Express around the EU, although this rather highlighted some of the problems, since it needed three different trains, one for the main European gauge, one for the Iberian gauge, and one for the Baltic (post-Soviet) gauge in the Baltic states. At least as important will be train operators, booking agencies and consumer pressure groups. It is still much easier to book flights across Europe than it is to book train journeys. One of the best places to start is a mildly eccentric website, seat61.com, run by a British train fanatic called Mark Smith. It tells you where to go online to make your reservation for almost any trip across Europe, adding some connoisseur’s advice on the actual trains. Two good websites for pan-European train bookings are raileurope.com and thetrainline.com, but both have significant geographical limitations. Too often, you end up having to book on the individual national rail sites, with all the attendant sign-up hassle. Another good idea is to revive long-distance, overnight trains. The night train was once part of the great romance of European travel (brilliantly and amusingly evoked in Stephen Poliakoff’s film, Caught on a Train). There are few of them left. Bring back the night trains — and make those couchettes more comfortable, while we are about it. ‘Let the train take the strain’ was a great advertising slogan of the 1980s. Forty years on, the condition of the planet urgently requires us to do it — and, by and large, it should also be a pleasure. Timothy Garton Ash is Professor of European Studies at Oxford University and a Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution, Stanford University||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-11
