18-02-2022||In a recent||Irresistible urge to doodle||I am familiar with the urge. As a child, I would often pick up pens and draw over any faces I could find in the newspaper — a pop starlet would get a moustache and French beard, a film star advertising cream would get a unibrow and have a few teeth blacked out. It was just something I did mindlessly. It relieved my boredom and gave me a small sense of satisfaction, I suppose. The Dadaists would have approved. The Dada movement of the 1920s pioneered surrealist automatism where the artist suppresses conscious control over the making process. This, they believed, allowed the unconscious mind to take over, in what is essentially, doodling. A hundred years later, doodling has been coupled with the recent upsurge in interest in mindfulness. There has been a huge uptick in sales of adult colouring books which are marketed as promoting mindfulness and stress relief. Doodling, it is believed, ‘is a way of finding space for mindfulness, de-stressing and helping to process difficult emotions.’ In fact, the act of doodling may also help us concentrate. Research suggests that people who doodle while doing other tasks like talking on the phone or listening to a zoom call, possess a greater ability to focus than those that don’t. Doodlers may even be able to retain more information than others. This is because the doodling simultaneously stimulates visual and kinesthetic modalities of learning. The more modalities we tap into when we are learning the easier for us to maintain attention in our classes or at work meetings. Doodling is more than just a learning tool — it can also be used to make a strong political and artistic statement. Marcel Duchamp once penned a moustache and a goatee on a print of Leonardo da Vinci’s ‘Mona Lisa’, along with the letters L.H.O.O.Q. Spelled out in French, these letters are a pun; Elle a chaud au cul, which translates as ‘she has hot pants’. More than just a mindless doodle and a risqué pun, Duchamp was challenging and rejecting artistic and cultural authority. We will never know whether the guard in the Moscow gallery was tapping into his kinesthetic learning or thumbing his nose at the aestheticism of modern capitalist society. The restoration of the piece is estimated to cost $3,300 and the guard has been fired and charged with vandalism. If he is found guilty, he could face three months in prison and a compulsory work sentence — which sounds to be even more monotonous than being a guard at a museum. With that in mind, I am going to stick to ‘mindfully’ defacing the newspaper.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/musings/irresistible-urge-to-doodle-370784
