21-02-2022||The general feeling about any Assembly bypoll is that the ruling party will win. A political party won the Assembly elections a few decades ago. However||Not easy being a returning officer||The CM was listening intently. After the minister finished, he gently said, ‘Ohne taan ji har round ton baad saare representatives de dastkhat laye si, phir recounting kis base te hundi ji (She was getting signatures of representatives of all parties after counting of each round, then how could we ask for recounting)?’A minister interjected, ‘Sir, then what is the use of being in power if even junior officers do not listen to us? Panj-chhe votan da ki hunda ae, inna faraq taan aiwen hi nikal janda ae (the difference of five-six votes could have been taken care of). She has intentionally defeated us.’Another minister added, ‘If the officers behave like this and do not listen to us, how will we face our workers? Such officers must be taught a lesson.’Voices were raised in unison for taking action against the woman officer. The CM said, ‘Oh taan theek ae ji, par Election Commission di parwangi ton baad hi result announce keeta si, kis kaaran action lawan (True, but the result was announced after the approval of the Election Commission, on what basis should I take action)?’Voices were raised together, ‘She must be suspended immediately.’The CM said with concern, ‘Dekho ji, kurhi barhi imandaar aa, ohnu suspend karan da sochya vee nahi ja sakda (the officer is honest, I cannot even think of suspending her).’The reaction came spontaneously, ‘Then she must be transferred.’ The CM said he would look into it.It was decided that she would be transferred to Chandigarh, but a senior woman officer got wind of the matter. She knew about the other officer’s two college-going children. She was in the process of overhauling the revenue department. She approached the Chief Minister, and with great difficulty, got the other officer posted in her own department at the same place. The latter worked there for over two years and earned laurels.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/musings/not-easy-being-a-returning-officer-371613
