25-02-2022||As a supplement to the NCC||Praise and punishment||I joined the ACC in Class 8. The first of the two social service camps I attended was in Sonepat, in 1955. Our school was allotted three vacancies. I was placed fourth, as the first reserve, and was disappointed. However, one out of the three developed fever and I replaced him.There were several hundred cadets from different schools. We lived eight-to-a-tent, sleeping on the floor. Early morning, we had to make our beds and wrap the canvas walls around the corner poles. Then we were taken to our work site, carrying pickaxes, shovels and straw baskets. Our task was to make a road. Digging and piling up the soil was a tough task. I worked with diligence and even developed sores on my palms. The supervising Subedar must have been keeping a close watch.At the end of the first week, I was taken off for three days and deputed to regimental police duties. I had to keep an eye on the large camp while the cadets were away. The duty was physically light, but carried heavy responsibility to guard against any unauthorised entry in the spread-out camp.Two days before the camp was to end, we were at the field site when the Subedar called out my name. Leaving the shovel, I moved at the double, but he shouted, ‘Come marching.’ The camp commandant, a Major, nodded approvingly on seeing my marching and saluting.The then defence minister Kailash Nath Katju was to present a trophy. Two of us were selected to receive it. On a given signal, we were to march towards the centre, turn left or right, climb the stage, halt, salute and receive the trophy. We did many rehearsals. All went off smoothly on the final day.We returned home on a Sunday. When I showed father my still-raw palms, he complimented me, and as a reward, allowed me to have an unscheduled holiday the next day. This was a rare concession from an otherwise strict military parent.When I reached school on Tuesday, to my surprise, many students enquired about my absence. I was summoned by the headmaster. It so happened that the photograph of trophy presentation had appeared in the newspapers. A special school assembly was called on Monday to honour me. My name was repeatedly called, but I was missing.In the presence of other teachers in his office, the headmaster lauded me profusely, thumped my back and offered me sweets. After he had finished, he turned his usual stern self and said, ‘For being absent without leave yesterday, you are being fined four annas.’||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/musings/praise-and-punishment-372800
25-02-2022||I WAS in Shoghi||AIR fans across Pakistan||The Amritsar transmitter being located close to the Pakistan border reaches satisfactorily in Lahore and its suburbs. I tried to listen to both stations. AIR-Amritsar transmitter was being blocked by the adjacent frequency of AIR-Shimla. But the frequency of AIR-Jalandhar was a standalone frequency, which was picked up well by the listeners in the Shimla hills.Indian listeners make calls from their smartphones and give their locations and phone numbers and the host of the programme calls them back for a chat. The Pakistani listeners are allowed to send voice or written messages. I have heard some very emotional messages from listeners based across the border. This programme is in chaste Punjabi and Punjabi is shunned by the government-owned Radio Pakistan, so they appreciate this pure Punjabi programme more.The Lahori dialect spoken by Pakistanis is very sweet and their messages are full of love and affection. Some send their messages from Murree, where this programme has its reach. One particular message came from the Peshawar area. The listener stated that the programme did not reach where he lived, and so he woke up at 6 am, walked all the way to a hill, taking one and a half hours. This hill received the programme and he enjoyed it thoroughly and sent messages. This proves how much love they have for AIR programmes in Pakistan.A common demand from the Pakistanis is to increase the reach of this programme, which at present India can’t. The reason is that the tower designed for this transmitter is a 300-metre structure, which was started in 2006 and completed in 2013, but was not taken over by Prasar Bharati. In 2020, it was partially dismantled to rectify a minor tilt in its upper portion. But before it could be rebuilt, the Covid-19 pandemic disrupted life.Now the pandemic is almost over, but the work of reconstruction has not started, perhaps due to the over-cautious approach of the government. The location is an unpopulated area with no trace of Covid-19. In the absence of a full-height tower, the range gets reduced, hindering its optimum utility. #Pakistan||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/musings/air-fans-across-pakistan-372457
25-02-2022||AARZI roshni ki bheek na de/Mustaqil aabo-taab deta ja/Mujh ko m(n)uh dekhne ki hirs nahin/Mujh ko apna naqaab deta ja (Don’t give me the temporary alms of light/Give me permanent effulgence/I’ve no desire to see the face/Instead||Hijab and Urdu poetry||Even as hijab (veil or burqa) is now in the news, this piece of clothing has been the bedrock of Urdu poetry for nearly 300 years. Screeds have been written on naqaab in Arabic and Persian poetry, right from the inception of Islam 1,400 years ago, but that’s for some other day.In Urdu poetry of the subcontinent, hijab is something that enhances the mystique of a woman. To quote Urdu poet Nuah Narvi, Nihaa(n) hai husn tera hijab mein/Kuchh aur shireen ho gaye shabaab mein (Your beauty is concealed in veil/You’ve become sweeter in your youthfulness) or Jameel Mazhari, Beshumaar ummedein jaag uthin/Use dekh ke hijab mei (Numerous hopes have woken up, seeing her veiled face).There has always been an element of mystery or je ne sais quoi when a lovely face is hidden behind a veil. It creates a mystique, a kind of mojo that is irresistible. ‘Speculations about concealed or half-concealed beauty is much more delectable than the fully exposed beauty. The latter leaves nothing to imagination,’ opined Italian master of semiotics Umberto Eco in his volume, On Beauty. So very true! A veiled beauty stokes a fire of imagination, whereas what’s visible or exposed leaves no room for possibilities. Raghupati Sahay ‘Firaq’ Gorakhpuri was spot on when he penned, Bazahir husn se behtar hai, husn jo tasavvur ko angdai de (Beauty that causes speculations is better than the beauty that’s for all to see). Mind you, I’m not encouraging the practice of wearing a hijab. Nor am I delving into the socio-religious ramifications of it. My point is that there’s nothing so bad that there’s not some good in it. Famous Urdu scholar and critic, Kalidas Gupta ‘Raza’ articulated it, ‘Urdu shayari ka ufaq hijab aur sharaab ke baghair naaqis hota’ (The entire horizon of Urdu poetry would have been incomplete sans veil and wine).A veiled face with only the limpid eyes visible is a connoisseur’s delight sans any voyeuristic concupiscence. Didn’t Lata sing, Haya hai aurat ka ek gahna (modesty is an ornament to a woman)? In Urdu poetry, veiled modesty is the essence of feminine beauty.Lastly, Pardanasheen ko beparda na kar/Jamaal ko yoon hi rahne de, sabke saamne muzahira na kar (Don’t take the veil off/Let beauty remain in its pristine form; don’t demonstrate it in public).True! Let feminine beauty remain half-concealed, at least in poetry, for retaining its magic and mystique for mankind. #hijab||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/musings/hijab-and-urdu-poetry-372154
