01-05-2021||India||Kerala facing acute shortage of Covid-19 vaccine: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan||Kerala is facing an acute shortage of vaccine and it is not in a position to provide shots to people in the 18-45 age group now, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Saturday, adding that repeated requests to the Union government for more doses failed to yield any result. Talking to newsmen in a virtual meeting, the CM said the state was keen to vaccinate people in the 18-45 group but it was delayed due to a paucity of doses. “We will start as and when we get enough stock. But they will have to wait,” he said, adding that the government will give priority to people who received the first shot and waiting are for the second. He said in some areas people are panicking over the non-availability of the second dose and are crowding vaccination centres. About 74 lakh doses were given in the state.The chief minister said some laboratories were not conducting RT-PCR tests after the price of the test was reduced from ₹1,700 to ₹500. The government will not tolerate this attitude and he requested all labs to adhere to the price fixed by the government. Many labs complained that it was not feasible to conduct tests as per the latest price.“We have decided after weighing all options. The kit is priced at ₹260 and the rest is the fee and other related heads. Protesting labs will have to realise that it was not time to make huge profits,” he said, adding if the protests continued the government will take action under relevant provisions of the epidemic control act. Kerala reported 35,636 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday with a high test positivity rate of 24.33 per cent. It also reported 48 deaths in the past 24 hours taking total fatalities to 5,356. At least three districts reported more than 4000 cases - Kozhikode 5,554, Ernakulam 5,002 and Thrissur 4,070. The state’s active caseload also rose to 3,23, 828, according to the data released by the state health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-facing-acute-shortage-of-covid-19-vaccine-chief-minister-pinarayi-vijayan-101619893614587.html
01-05-2021||India||Working to provide 40k o2 generators to India: china||Chinese companies are working round the clock to meet the demand of 40,000 oxygen generators from India which is facing a shortage of the live-saving gas amid the Covid-19 pandemic, ambassador Sun Weidong has said, adding that several organisations are using private channels to extend help to the neighbouring country. “As far as I know, Chinese companies have been accelerating production of at least 40,000 oxygen generators – orders placed by the Indian side, and they are working round the clock to deliver them as soon as possible. Many Chinese firms and private organisations are also using their own channels to provide various [forms of] help to India,” the Chinese ambassador to India told state-run tabloid Global Times in an interview.In April, China supplied more than 5,000 ventilators, 21,569 oxygen generators, over 21 million masks and around 3,800 tons of medicines to India, Sun said, citing the statistics of the General Administration of Customs of China.On Friday, Chinese President Xi Jinping expressed serious concerns over the pandemic situation in India and offered to help fight the outbreak, in a message to Prime Minister Narendra Modi.“China is willing to strengthen anti-pandemic cooperation with India, and provide support and help to the country,” official news agency Xinhua quoted Xi as saying. “I am very concerned about the recent outbreak of new coronary pneumonia in India and would like to express sincere condolences to the Indian government and people on behalf of the Chinese government and Chinese people, and on my own behalf,” Xi added in the message.Following this, Chinese official media announced that state councilor and foreign minister Wang Yi held a telephonic conversation with external affairs minister, S Jaishankar, expressing China’s concerns over the second wave in India that pushed daily cases past the 400,000 mark on Thursday.Wang said China will continue to encourage and support Chinese enterprises to speed up production and provide anti-epidemic materials to India as per requirements. Besides this, it will also facilitate customs clearance and transportation of anti-epidemic materials purchased by the Indian side. “Third, we will organise video exchanges between health and epidemic prevention experts of the two countries to share experience and effective measures in fighting the epidemic,” Wang said.The Chinese minister reiterated the country’s support to India’s efforts and said it will ensure that all required materials “flow to Indian entities without any delay”.Chinese companies will be supported to deliver the materials, and airports, customs and airlines will be instructed to smoothly facilitate the movement of goods, he said.Appreciating Xi’s message of condolence to Modi, Jaishankar thanked the Chinese side for showing goodwill and unity, and for providing strong support to the Indian side in purchasing anti-epidemic supplies.Jaishankar said Indian entities were commercially procuring products and raw materials required for the Covid-19 response from suppliers in China. He added that “this process would be facilitated if various transport corridors and cargo flights remained open and the necessary logistics support [was] ensured expeditiously,” according to a statement from the external affairs ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/working-to-provide-40k-o2-generators-to-india-china-101619893434012.html
01-05-2021||India||France sending 8 oxygen plants to help India tide over Covid-19 crisis||The first consignment of the Russian-made Sputnik V vaccine was delivered to Hyderabad on Saturday even as France announced it would deliver 28 tonnes of medical equipment to support India’s response to a deadly second wave of Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infections. A special cargo flight will reach New Delhi early on May 2 with 28 tonnes of medical equipment worth more than ₹17 crore, including eight high capacity oxygen generator plants that will be delivered to six hospitals in Delhi and one each in Haryana and Telangana, the French embassy said. This is the first phase of the solidarity mission deployed by President Emmanuel Macron to support India as part of the European Union’s coordinated response to the Covid-19 crisis. The French support is meant not only to provide immediate medical relief but also to boost India’s “strategic autonomy in healthcare”. The eight oxygen generator plants from the French company Novair produce medical oxygen from ambient air to supply a hospital’s oxygen system or fill cylinders with a rate of 20,000 litres an hour. Each plant can continuously supply a 250-bed hospital non-stop for a dozen years, providing enhanced resilience to peaks in oxygen demand and savings of up to ₹15 crore a year while eliminating safety issues related to liquid oxygen storage. The plants will be delivered to hospitals based on needs identified by Indian authorities. Besides the oxygen plants, the flight will also carry 28 ventilators and 200 electric syringe pumps to be distributed to several hospitals to enhance their ICU capacities. French ambassador Emmanuel Lenain said, “We stand by India in these difficult times, just as India has always stood by France. In spring 2020, when French hospitals were facing acute shortages, India provided lifesaving help through the export of critical medical drugs. The French people have not forgotten.” This special French cargo flight was chartered free of charge by the French shipping group CMA CGM, and many other French firms present in India stepped up to pool their resources with the French government for the solidarity mission. A second delivery of oxygen generators and medical equipment from France is underway, and French company Air Liquide will begin shipping several hundred tonnes of oxygen through a dedicated logistical bridge organised by the French and Indian governments and implemented with the Indian military. The consignment of 150,000 doses of Sputnik V from Russia was delivered to Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, the first Indian pharmaceutical firm to tie up with the Russian vaccine’s developers last year for regulatory approvals and distribution. The consignment will be rolled out after necessary clearances over the next few days, said Dr Reddy’s, which has secured emergency use authorisation from India’s drug regulator to import the shot. “This initial quantity will be used across different channels as a pilot to line up our supply chain for the larger vaccination program rollout,” the firm said. Russian ambassador Nikolay Kudashev said in a statement that Sputnik V’s efficacy is “among the highest in the world”, and the vaccine will be “effective against new strains of Covid-19”. He added local production would start soon and be gradually ramped up to 850 million doses a year. “As Russia and India continue dedicated joint efforts to combat the Covid-19, this move is especially important to support the Indian government’s endeavours to mitigate the deadly second wave and save lives,” Kudashev said. Two emergency flights from Russia delivered 20 tonnes of equipment, including oxygen concentrators, ventilators and medicines such as Coronavir on April 29. Meanwhile, a Germán Air Force Airbus A350 cargo aircraft flew in with 120 oxygen ventilators to New Delhi on Saturday night. The equipment will be immediately handed over for distribution in cooperation with the Indian Red Cross Society, the external affairs ministry and other agencies, German ambassador Walter Lindner said. Two Airbus A400 military transport aircraft will bring in a large mobile oxygen generation plant next week and 13 German technical personnel have reached India to install the plant and train Indian personnel. A consignment of antiviral drug Remdesivir is expected from Germany, and a German agency will organise a webinar on virus sequencing for an Indian technical team.“The #Covid19-pandemic strikes at the heart of India. We support India in its fight against the pandemic. Germany will send urgently needed goods to provide care to the patients,” German foreign minister Heiko Maas said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/france-sending-8-oxygen-plants-to-help-india-tide-over-covid-19-crisis-101619891454491.html
01-05-2021||India||Amid raging pandemic, counting of votes to decide leadership in Puducherry and 4 states||(PLAYBACK)HT CorrespondentNew DelhiVotes for 822 assembly seats spread across four states and the Union territory of Puducherry will be counted on Sunday, May 2, amid the raging Covid-19 wave across India.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is in direct contest with the Trinamool Congress in West Bengal and with the Congress-led alliance in Assam. Apart from Assam, the Congress is trying to stake a claim of power from the Left Front government in Kerala. In Tamil, the fight is between the two Dravidian parties, the ruling AIADMK and DMK. While the BJP is an ally of the AIADMK, the Congress is a minor player in the DMK-led alliance.The exit polls on April 29 predicted a close contest between the BJP and the TMC in West Bengal, a clear edge for the BJP in Assam, for the DMK in Tamil Nadu and the Left Front in Kerala. In Puducherry, NR Congress, contesting in alliance with BJP and the AIADMK, was a clear leader in the exit polls.Of the 294 seats in West Bengal, votes would be counted for 292 seats and election in two seats in the Murshidabad district have been countermanded because of the death of the candidates. Both TMC and BJP expressed confidence in winning with a handsome margin. The Sanjukta Morcha or joint alliance of Congress, Left parties and cleric Abbasuddin Siddiqui’s newly-launched Indian Secular Front (ISF), is also in the fray, though exit polls predicted a below-par performance for the alliance.“We will meet our expectations,” BJP state president Dilip Ghosh said on Saturday but did not repeat the “more than 200 seats” claim his party made. Saugata Roy of TMC said that the election win for his party was a foregone conclusion. “The way BJP workers are demoralised, shows they have lost the battle even before counting of votes,” he said.The Bengal elections were a manifestation of two narratives. While the BJP primarily projected Banerjee as an “appeaser” — a code for what the party alleges is the TMC government’s pro-Muslim tilt - the chief minister labelled the BJP’s national leaders from the Hindi belt as “bahiragato” (outsider) to Bengal’s culture and spirit.In Tamil Nadu, counting for 234 assembly seats will be conducted across 75 counting centres, in which the fate of 4,218 candidates will be decided. It’s the first election without stalwart leaders such as J Jayalalithaa and M Karunanidhi who passed away in 2016 and 2018 respectively. In a bipolar contest, the AIADMK and the DMK are contesting more than 170 seats each on their own. About 72.78% of voters in the state turned up on the single-phase election on April 6 to decide if Edapaddi Palaniswami gets to retain the chief minister’s chair or if DMK’s MK Stalin should be given a chance.Several other parties are in the running and chief minister aspirants include actor Kamal Haasan whose three-year-old Makkal Needhi Maiam makes its debut in the assembly election. The AMMK, which is AIADMK’s rebel faction, led by VK Sasikala’s nephew TTV Dhinakaran, is also in the fray with Tamil nationalist S Seeman’s Naam Tamizhar Katchi with a rural support base looking to make a mark.In Kerala, the fate of 957 candidates contesting for 140 assembly seats will be decided on Sunday. Most of the pre-poll and exit poll surveys have predicted a clear edge to the ruling of the Left Democratic Front by bucking the 40-year old trend of change in government after every five years. The Congress-led United Democratic Front expressed confidence that the state will stick to its tradition and elevate it to power. “We are sure about our continuation. Our track record is our strength. People are with us,” said upbeat chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. But opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said he won’t believe in surveys and predictions and people are waiting to dump the most “corrupt and inefficient government” the state has seen. Elections were held in a single phase on April 6. For the 126-member Assam assembly, the BJP-led alliance was ahead of the Congress-led opposition grand alliance in most of the exit polls even though the Congress rejected the exit polls saying they were forming the next government.“We would win close to 100 seats,” said BJP leader Himanta Biswa Sarma. Congress leader Gaurav Gogoi, however, said the alliance was coming back to power. “The exit polls are not telling the reality. We will win,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-raging-pandemic-counting-of-votes-to-decide-leadership-in-puducherry-and-4-states-101619886594180.html
01-05-2021||India||India, South Africa to make fresh push for waiver of vaccine patents at WTO||India and South Africa are preparing for a fresh push at the World Trade Organization (WTO) for a waiver of patent protections on Covid-19 vaccines though the success of the move will largely depend on the position adopted by the US and other developed countries, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity on Saturday.Diplomats of the two countries are working on revising the text of a proposal originally submitted by India and South Africa last October to waive intellectual property rights such as patents and other protections for Covid-19 vaccines and medicines so that they can be more accessible.“It is the same proposal though with a revised text,” said one of the people cited above. It is expected the revised proposal will highlight the urgent need to ensure equitable and speedy access to vaccines in light of the devastating second wave of Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infections in India, which has already seen record-breaking figures of more than 400,000 cases being reported in a day.The revised proposal is also likely to state that patent protections for vaccines be waived for a limited timeframe in order to address the concerns of the US, European Union and other states that opposed the original proposal, the people said.The fresh proposal is expected to be presented to the WTO sometime in the next two weeks, the people said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi raised the issue during a phone conversation with US President Joe Biden on April 26, the people said. An official statement issued by the Indian side after the conversation had said that Modi emphasised the “need to ensure smooth and open supply chains of raw materials and inputs required for the manufacture of vaccines, medicines, and therapeutics”.Asked about the matter by reporters on Thursday, White House principal deputy press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre said “no option is off the table”. She said, “We’re going to do what in the best interest of ending the pandemic. We are already engaged in steps to increase vaccine production. Moderna announced that it will not enforce its Covid-19-related patents against those making vaccines intended to combat the pandemic... And I want to be clear that no option is off the table and our guiding principle is getting safe vaccines fast.”White House spokesperson Jen Psaki said on Tuesday the US would “evaluate whether it’s more effective to manufacture [the vaccines] here and provide supply to the world or the IP waiver is an option,” but added that the US president had not made a decision as yet.Under the WTO Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS), exemptions can be made for suspending patent protections on medicines needed in an emergency. India and South Africa have worked together in the past to obtain a similar exemption for drugs needed to treat HIV/AIDS.However, developers of Covid-19 vaccines such as AstraZeneca, Pfizer and Johnson & Johnson have opposed any waiver for their doses, saying they are capable of producing adequate jabs to meet the global demand. The pharmaceutical majors have also contended that smaller manufacturers in the developing world do not possess the technology or the skills to produce such complex vaccines.The original proposal submitted by India and South Africa to the TRIPS Council on October 2 last year stated that it is “important for WTO members to work together to ensure that intellectual property rights such as patents, industrial designs, copyright and protection of undisclosed information do not create barriers to the timely access to affordable medical products including vaccines and medicines or to scaling-up of research, development, manufacturing and supply of medical products essential to combat Covid-19”. It further said, “As new diagnostics, therapeutics and vaccines for Covid-19 are developed, there are significant concerns how these will be made available promptly, in sufficient quantities and at an affordable price to meet the global demand.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-south-africa-to-make-fresh-push-for-waiver-of-vaccine-patents-at-wto-101619886294125.html
01-05-2021||India||'This death of a young doctor...': IMA ex-chief blames 'system' as Delhi Covid doctor dies by suicide||The former chief of Indian Medical Association, Dr Ravi Wankhedkar, on Saturday said the suicide of Dr Vivek Rai, a resident doctor of a private hospital in Delhi, is nothing short of murder by the "system", which has created frustration "due to the shortage of basic healthcare facilities".According to DCP south, the doctor died on April 30 allegedly by suicide at his residence in Malviya Nagar. A suicide note was found but no reason for suicide was mentioned in the note, the DCP said."He was doing Covid duty since one month and was dealing with ICU patients every day and was providing CPR and ACLS for about seven to eight patients per day out of which not many survived," Dr Wankhedkar wrote.This brings into focus d tremendous emotional strain hcws r having while managing C19 crisis.This death of a young dr is nothing short of murder by d “system “ which has created frustrations d/t shortages of basic health care facilities.Bad Science,Bad Politics & Bad Governance"Due to this frustrating situation he was into, he took such a difficult decision of ending his own life than living with the suffering and emotions of the people who died on his watch," the former IMA chief wrote.35-year-old Dr Vivek Rai was a brilliant doctor from Gorakhpur and has helped save a hundred lives in the Covid era, Dr Wankhedkar said."This brings into focus the tremendous emotional strain healthcare workers are having while managing the Covid-19 crisis. This death of a young doctor is nothing short of murder by the system, which has created frustrations due to shortages of basic health care facilities. Bad science, bad politics and bad governance," the doctor tweeted.Dr Vivek was married in November and his wife is in two months of her pregnancy, Dr Wankhedkar added.The healthcare system has come under immense pressure in April as India is fighting its worst battle with the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. The country is not only seeing the highest number of daily infections but also the highest number of daily deaths, as many are dying without getting hospital beds, oxygen. On Saturday, around 12 people died at Delhi's Batra Hospital as it ran out of oxygen for 1.5 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/this-death-of-a-young-doctor-ima-ex-chief-blames-system-as-delhi-covid-doctor-dies-by-suicide-101619884258693.html
01-05-2021||India||Queues for oxygen, hospital beds and outside crematorium too, thanks to Modi govt, says Rahul Gandhi on Covid situation||In a wide-ranging exclusive interview with PTI, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday said the entire world is shaken by the severity of the Covid-19 pandemic in India and there are queues everywhere, whether for oxygen cylinders, for life-saving medicines, for hospital beds and even outside crematoriums.He accused the government of misreading and mishandling the situation and alleged that all early warning signs were ignored, including from scientists. Here is the transcript of the interview: Q. The second wave of coronavirus has hit India hard. We see people gasping for medical aid, medicines, oxygen. They have no access to facilities in the national capital and across the country. How do you see the situation and the response of the government? Ans. It breaks my heart every single day to wake up to the absolute devastation around us. This is not a wave; it is a tsunami that has destroyed everything in its wake. There are never-ending queues everywhere. There are queues to get an oxygen cylinder, queues to refill the cylinder, queues to get life-saving medicines, queues to get a hospital bed, and now there are queues outside crematoriums. There is a fatal shortage of every single item we need to tackle Covid-19. Our capital’s best hospitals are bursting at the seams. We are getting frantic SOS calls for oxygen from India’s top doctors. Hospitals are petitioning High Courts for oxygen. Our healthcare workers are seeing patients die in front of their eyes, they cannot save people. India is now the world’s coronavirus epicentre. The entire world is shaken by what they are seeing in India. None of this should have happened. There were multiple early warning signs. Forget the signs, scientists clearly warned the government this would happen – they ignored them. We could and should have been much better prepared. And now, where is the government in this crisis? It is completely missing in action. They are obsessed only with saving the Prime Minister’s image and blaming others. The new buzzword is that the ‘system’ has failed. Who is this ‘system’? Who runs the ‘system’? It’s just a ploy to avoid admitting responsibility. Q. Did the government falter in assessing the Covid situation? Who is at fault? Ans. Absolutely. The Prime Minister is at fault. He runs a highly centralised and personalised government machinery, is solely and substantially devoted to building his own brand, is utterly focused on imagery rather than substance. The fact is that this Government completely failed to understand or to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic -- right from the very beginning, despite repeated warnings. Since the very start of this pandemic back in 2020, I kept trying to warn the government about the disaster ahead if we did not urgently prepare but they attacked me and ridiculed me. It’s not just me – anyone who tried to sound the alarm, the state callously and thoughtlessly ignored. Modi government let this virus enter India through our airports in February and March of 2020. And then it panicked and without consultation or thought imposed the world’s harshest lockdown. Migrant workers were left to fend for themselves and an unprecedented exodus began from the cities. The poorest of the poor were forced to walk hundreds of kilometres home with no support, no aid, no assistance. In his sheer ignorance, the Prime Minister said he would defeat the virus in 21 days, akin to the battle of Mahabharata! Modi government is plainly arrogant and focuses on perception over reality- declaring victory against the virus is absolute insanity and demonstrates a complete misunderstanding of the nature of what this virus is. The only way to fight corona is with humility and by realizing that you are faced with a relentless opponent, who can adapt and is very resilient. The PM had an entire year to better prepare, protect India, and think through this crisis but what did they do? Did the PM & the Govt add sufficient oxygen capacity, ramp up testing, increase hospital beds, ventilators? Did the PM think long-term about the state of our health infrastructure and start building for the sort of subsequent Corona waves that almost every country in the world was experiencing? It was sheer luck that we emerged out of last year’s nightmare, to a point where we had less than 10,000 new cases in a day early in 2021. We were not testing enough then. We are not testing enough now. Where was the preparation for this massive second wave? Why were the jumbo facilities put up last year dismantled? Why did they raise oxygen exports over 700% - think of that number, 700% - in the months before this brutal second wave?Also read| Covid: It will get worse before it gets betterQ. What could the Government have done differently to address the second wave? Ans. The Modi Government was both grossly negligent and blindly overconfident. The BJP announced the end of the pandemic and congratulated the Prime Minister for his “success” even as the second wave was just beginning. The Prime Minister himself is on record as having said that India had successfully fought the pandemic and won. In reality, there was no coherent strategy. One, the government should have built massive capacity over the last year –– testing, oxygen, hospital beds, ventilators. Two, they should not have declared victory prematurely. Three, the Prime Minister and his government did not even acknowledge there was a problem. How can you fix something you don’t even accept exists? Four, the government did not act on scientific advice or evidence. They continuously ignored rising cases and were busy instead with election campaigns. They encouraged super-spreader events. They even bragged about them. Our Prime Minister and Home Minister were not even wearing masks in public over the past few months. What sort of a message is that sending to citizens? Five, most importantly, the only solution we have is vaccination. We are supposed to be the largest manufacturer of vaccines in the world. And yet, India is desperately short of vaccines. We are making them, why weren’t our people first in line to be vaccinated? If that is not a failure to plan and execute, what is? Q. With India seeing around 4 lakh cases a day, the highest in the world, is there a case for the national emergency considering the unprecedented crisis? Ans. We are already in the midst of a national emergency. But just declaring something is not the answer. The biggest problem of this government is it announces and then absconds. Now that the situation is completely out of control, they have dropped the ball and thrown it to the states. They have made the states and citizens truly ‘Aatmanirbhar’. Rely on yourself is the motto. No one will come to help you. Definitely, not the Prime Minister. The need of the hour is to hold hands, work together and heal our people. India must be the only country in the world facing this massive pandemic without the guidance of an expert and empowered group that is charged with fighting the virus and protecting the people, with planning ahead, anticipating needs and taking the decisions that will result in swift action to save lives. Q. GoI has said it repeatedly warned states about the second wave and asked them to map the need for essential supplies like oxygen, ICU beds, and continue with containment efforts. Would you say the current situation is a collective failure of the Centre and states? Ans. The entire country has already been under the Epidemic Act for more than a year. The Centre has absolute power over states under the Act. This is a government that wants to control everything. When cases went down, they declared victory, and the Prime Minister took all the credit as he always does. Now that the situation is terrible, why are you blaming the states? Out of 162 oxygen plants sanctioned in October by the Centre, only 33 are functional. This was set up with the PM-CARES funds. The Modi Government took tens of thousands of crores of donations in his name, without any transparency, without any accountability. The states have rejected the sub-standard ventilators supplied by the Centre through these funds. States do not even get their GST dues on time. States are dependent on the Modi Government for quotas of oxygen, Remdesivir and Tocilizumab injections. The Modi Government has chained the hands of the states behind their backs, so they are completely powerless, and then asks them to sort out their own affairs. Obviously, the system will collapse. Also read| 'Everything falls on my shoulders': Adar Poonawalla on vaccine pressure in IndiaQ. Adult vaccinations are starting on May 1 along the lines you demanded, but states say they cannot start as they do not have the vaccines. What is your view? Did you seek the expansion of vaccinations too early? The UK will start adult vaccines from June? Ans. First, the government set a target of vaccinating 300 million by August. This is the above 45 age category. They managed to fully vaccinate not even 2 percent of the total population. With the mounting pressure of the government not vaccinating enough, they added another 600 million to the list, by starting vaccinations for the 18+ group from May 1. But where are the vaccines? Why did the Modi Government abandon the people between age groups of 18 to 44 years by refusing to take responsibility for their vaccination? Why is there a discriminatory policy on the pricing of vaccines? Why should there be five different prices for the same vaccine? What is the strategy beyond two companies? How can that suffice for almost 1 billion people? We need 2 billion doses. Now, they are scrambling for vaccines. The numbers just don’t add up.Q. You have said the liberalised Vaccine policy is discriminatory. Vaccine makers have reduced prices for states. Your comments? Ans. This is the story of ‘discount sale’, where you mark up the price, and then make a show of reducing it. It is a complete eyewash. Why should states pay more than the Centre to buy vaccines? Why should the states be left to fend for themselves? Why should there be a difference in price for vaccines for the Centre, the States and the private hospitals? Why should the price of the vaccine even for the two companies be different? Why the discrepancy? After all, even when States pay for the vaccination of those between the age groups of 18 to 44 years, it is taxpayer’s money. Q. The government has not invoked compulsory licensing for vaccines despite repeated calls by Congress? Ans. Dr Manmohan Singh asked for compulsory licensing in his letter to the Prime Minister. The Congress President has repeated it several times now. Other countries have done this. The USA ramped up its vaccine production using their Defense Production Act. We have to do whatever it takes, within our laws, to ramp up the domestic production of vaccines here. We have a domestic manufacturing base. We can manufacture for both India and the world. All the industry needs are licenses and raw materials. It should have been done months ago. Q. The Congress party has said it is willing to work together with the Centre in the fight against Coronavirus. How will you make it accountable then? Ans. Congress Party has said from day one that it is willing to work with the government in the fight against Coronavirus and for a year now, even in just the last few days, the Congress President has repeated this position very clearly. We have been consistently giving suggestions on all possible forums. Forget taking them seriously, the government has not even meaningfully acknowledged these suggestions. I see no contradiction in working together with the government in times of unprecedented crisis while at the same time holding it accountable for its decisions. The problem arises when the government doesn’t believe in consultation, in carrying everyone along, in tapping expertise it lacks. This government seems to think that acknowledging help is needed is a sign of weakness. The hubris and pettiness of this government are unbelievable. Q. The Madras High Court has held the Election Commission responsible for the Covid situation. Your views? Ans. The Court was echoing a widely held view. In the past 7 years, like so many other institutions, the Election Commission of India has also crumbled. The Court has said what it believes, I don’t want to make any further comment. Let your readers judge for themselves. Our Institutions are a warning system- they give us feedback and information on how to respond to crisis but our institutions have been completely destroyed and taken over. The press, judiciary, election commission, bureaucracy - none of them have played their role of guardian/watchdog. This means India today is like a ship in a storm, sailing without any information. Corona is just part of the problem - the real problem is that India now doesn’t have the capacity to respond to any major crisis because of what has been done to its systems over the last 6 years. Also read| Assembly elections 2021: 200% increase in halls for counting amid Covid-19Q. There have been demands within for internal elections and a new Congress president? Are you ready to lead again in such times, especially when there are demands from various quarters within for you to lead? Ans.I have always favoured internal organisational elections within the Congress and these will be conducted in time. It is for the party workers to decide as to who should lead the party. I will do whatever the party wants me to do. But right now the focus is on controlling the pandemic, saving lives, and alleviating India’s widespread suffering and pain. There will be time for everything else in due course.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/queues-for-oxygen-hospital-beds-and-outside-crematorium-too-thanks-to-modi-govt-says-rahul-gandhi-on-covid-19-situation-101619881938284.html
01-05-2021||India||Pollution control body asks 30 industries to modify nitrogen plants for medical oxygen||The Central Pollution Control Board has identified 30 industries to modify their nitrogen plants for the production of medical oxygen. Some of these plants can be shifted to nearby hospitals for supplying oxygen and some plants, where it is not feasible to shift the plants, can produce oxygen on-site, the CPCB said. The Centre had asked the CPCB to identify industries with spare nitrogen plants and explore the feasibility of converting nitrogen plants to produce oxygen. The CPCB has a database of all industrial units in the country.A senior Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) official said that they have not issued any such directions in the national capital.“There are no such major plants that can be converted, but if any specific directions are issued from CPCB we will look at options,” the officials said. M/s UPL Ltd converted one 50 Nm3/hr capacity nitrogen plant to produce oxygen using Zeolite Molecular Sieve and installed it at LG Rotary Hospital, Vapi in Gujarat. This plant is producing 0.5 ton/day of oxygen and is operational since April 27. UPL Ltd. is also under the process of conversion of three more plants. On conversion to oxygen plants, these plants will be installed at hospitals in Surat and Ankleshwar.According to the CPCB, at the existing nitrogen plants, oxygen for medical use can be produced by replacing Carbon Molecular Sieve (CMS) with Zeolite Molecular Sieve (ZMS) and making few other changes, such as installation of oxygen analyzer, change in control panel system, flow valves, among others.With the availability of ZMS, such modified plants can be set up in 4-5 days while installation of a new oxygen plant may take a minimum of 3-4weeks. Oxygen produced in on-site plants has to be compressed and filled in cylinders using high-pressure compressors for transporting to hospitals, the CPCB said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pollution-control-body-asks-30-industries-to-modify-nitrogen-plants-for-medical-oxygen-101619883653976.html
01-05-2021||India||Tripurari Sharan named new Bihar chief secretary||Senior IAS officer Tripurari Sharan was on Saturday named as the new Chief Secretary of Bihar, but his tenure will be for a brief period of two months only, according to a government notification. Sharan succeeded Arun Kumar Singh who died of Covid the previous day. A 1985 batch IAS officer, Sharan will retire from service on June 30 this year. He was currently holding the responsibility of Chairman of Revenue Council. According to the notification issued by the General Administration department, Sanjeev Kumar Sinha (1986 batch) will replace Sharan in Revenue Council. The 1985 batch IAS officer Arun Kumar Singh had died of Covid in a private hospital here Friday. He had tested positive mid-April and after a long battle with the disease breathed his last the previous day. Singh was scheduled to retire in August-end but his sudden demise forced a reshuffle. A large number of senior bureaucrats have come under attack of Covid in its deadly ongoing second wave in Bihar. Before Singh, Additional Health Secretary Ravi Shankar Choudhary and Director in Panchayati Raj department Vijay Ranjan had succumbed to Covid infection. The notification also gave details of the transfer of some other senior IAS officers. Sudhir Kumar will take over the charge of Chief Investigation Commissioner in the General Administration department from Sinha. The 1989 batch IAS officer Vandana Kinney will be Additional Chief Secretary in the department of Labour Resources department. She will also have additional responsibility of Arts, Culture and Youth affairs department. Mihir Kumar Singh has been made Commissioner of Tirhut division at Muzaffarpur. Prem Singh Meena has been named as new Bhagalpur Commissioner. He will also hold additional charge of Munger division. Manish Kumar (2005 batch) became new Darbhanga Commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripurari-sharan-named-new-bihar-chief-secretary-101619881452886.html
01-05-2021||India||Maharashtra reports 63,282 new Covid-19 infections; 802 died in 24 hours||Maharashtra on Saturday reported 63,282 new cases and 802 deaths while Mumbai reported 3,897 new cases and 90 deaths in the last 24 hours. With Saturday's rise, the number of active Covid-19 cases in the country reached 6,63,758. The 24-hour infection tally is a slight rise from the previous day as Maharashtra, on Friday, reported 62,919 fresh Covid-19 cases. Against 63,282 new Covid-19 cases, the state recorded 61,326 recoveries in the last 24 hours. The narrowing gap between daily infections and daily recoveries is an indication that the Covid-19 situation in the state is stabilising as chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Friday. There is no need for stricter lockdown in the state, the chief minister said. A total of 2,89,006 people were tested in the state in 24 hours.Maharashtra Covid-19 situation better due to restraint shown by all, no need for stricter lockdown: CM Uddhav ThackerayAs India officially began the third phase of Covid-19 vaccination drive where people between the age group of 18 and 44 years are being vaccinated, Maharashtra inoculated as many as 11,4892 people in that age group, the state public health department said. Inoculation drive for the new category was carried out in 26 districts of the state and it will begin in all 36 districts from Sunday, said an official release.The second wave of the pandemic which is at its peak now in the country started in February and Maharashtra was the first state to be hit hard by it. As the state seems to be gradually on the way to recovery from the peak, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope has predicted that the third wave may hit the state in July-August. It has been said the state could reach the plateau level of Covid-19 cases by the end of May. If it is hit by a third wave in July or August, it would increase the challenges before the state administration, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-reports-63-282-new-covid-19-infections-802-died-in-24-hours-101619880891952.html
01-05-2021||India||India receives over a lakh Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine doses from Russia||One hundred and fifty-thousand doses of the Russian Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine, Sputnik V, arrived in India on Saturday, the licensed distributors of the vaccine in India announced.Dr Reddy’s Labs that has the license to distribute the vaccine said in a statement that the doses arrived in Hyderabad from Russia, and the company was in the process of working out necessary formalities for its rollout.“We are pleased to announce that the first consignment of 150,000 doses of the Sputnik V vaccine has landed in Hyderabad from Russia. The rollout of the consignment will be subject to the necessary clearances, which will be processed over the next few days. This initial quantity will be used across different channels as a pilot to line up our supply chain for the larger vaccination programme rollout,” Dr Reddy’s statement read.More doses are expected to arrive soon. “Subsequent consignments will arrive in the next few weeks. This is a reaffirmation of Dr Reddy’s commitment towards combating Covid-19 in India through our portfolio of therapeutics and vaccines,” said Deepak Sapra, chief executive officer, API and services, Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, in a statement.The ministry of external affairs spokesperson, Arindam Bagchi, also confirmed the news through a tweet.“Sputnik-V vaccine arrives in Hyderabad from Russia! Will add to India’s arsenal to fight the pandemic. This third option will augment our vaccine capacity & accelerate our vaccination drive,” he tweeted soon after the arrival of the vaccine.“This is the 1st consignment of 1.5 lakh doses of Sputnik-V vaccine with millions of doses to follow. Plans to ‘Make in India’ for use in India, Russia & 3rd countries. Deeply value support from long-standing friend Russia. Over a decade of India Russia special & privileged strategic partnership,” he said in another tweet.On April 13, Dr Reddy’s Labs received India’s drugs controller’s approval for import of the vaccine under restricted use in an emergency situation, making it the third vaccine allowed for use in India against Covid-19. The vaccine’s efficacy is pegged at 91.6% based on the final assessment of clinical trials in Russia, where roughly 20,000 people were part of the phase-3 clinical trials. In India, the vaccine is being tested by Dr Reddy’s in 1,600 people in a phase 2/3 trial meant as a “bridging study” that all foreign-made pharmaceutical products need to undergo.The production locally, through various tie-ups, could start by end of June or early July, according to Kirill Dmitriev, CEO, Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), Russia’s sovereign wealth fund that is marketing the vaccine globally.Besides a partnership with Dr Reddy’s Labs, which is also conducting Sputnik V clinical trials locally, the RDIF has entered a manufacturing partnership with five other local companies for production. The companies are Stelis Biopharma, Gland Pharma, Hetero Biopharma, Panacea Biotec and Virchow Biotech. Among these companies, Hetero Biopharma last week received the Drugs Controller General of India’s (DCGI) clearance to conduct phase 3 clinical trials of the vaccine in India.India will be producing at least 50 million doses per month of Sputnik V, over the next couple of months.“We are looking at producing 50 million doses or more a month of Sputnik V by this summer, or end of summer, in India. India has a significant production capacity; we have already announced tie-ups with five local companies for mass production of Sputnik V, and we intend to have several more tie-ups that will announce soon; likely in the next 2 weeks,” Dmitriev earlier said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-receives-over-a-lakh-sputnik-v-covid-19-vaccine-doses-from-russia-101619880114256.html
01-05-2021||India||CJI Ramana advances SC's summer break to May 10 due to surge in Covid cases||Taking note of a surge in COVID-19 cases, Chief Justice of India (CJI) N V Ramana advanced Supreme Court's summer vacation on Saturday to May 10, instead of May 14, after the full bench of the court concurred with the proposal.On April 26, the CJI had taken note of the representations made by bar bodies such as the SCBA and the SCAORA seeking advancement of the summer vacation in view of the sudden surge in COVID-19 cases and decided to put them before the full bench for consideration."It is hereby circulated for information...upon consideration of the suggestions from the bar due to the surge in COVID-19 infections, the Chief Justice of India has been pleased to direct that the summer vacation of the Supreme Court calendar 2021 be rescheduled to commence on Monday, May 10. Court shall reopen after the summer vacation on June 27," a circular issued by the apex court said.The Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA), led by its president and senior advocate Vikas Singh, and the Supreme Court Advocates on Record Association (SCAORA) had met the CJI seeking advancement of the summer vacation in the wake of the rampaging second wave of the coronavirus pandemic.The CJI held preliminary discussions with the bar leaders of the SCBA, the Bar Council of India (BCI) and the SCAORA, and "decided to place the issue before the full court".The full bench agreed to the proposal, a source, privy to the development told PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cji-ramana-advances-sc-s-summer-break-to-may-10-due-to-surge-in-covid-cases-101619877501374.html
01-05-2021||India||Getting demand for Oxygen Express from every area of the country: Railways||After the dry run of the first Oxygen Express on April 19 between Mumbai and Vizag, 25 Oxygen Express have completed the journey moving 56 full tankers and 813 tonne of liquid medical oxygen, the railways said on Saturday. The railways has also delivered 25 oxygen tankers to Uttar Pradesh, 10 to Maharashtra, 12 to Madhya Pradesh, five to Haryana and four to Delhi.Briefing about the steps the Indian Railways took in the wake of the coronavirus crisis, Railway Board chairman Suneet Sharma said the railways will ensure that oxygen reaches wherever necessary in the minimum possible time. "We are now receiving demand from every corner of the country and I want to reiterate the railways' commitment to service -- be it Oxygen express or covid coaches," the CEO said.Providing state-wise break-up, the railways said, Haryana received its first and second Oxygen Express on Saturday carrying five tankers. The third Oxygen Express carrying 30.6 MT liquid medical oxygen (LMO) in two tankers has already started from Angul and currently on its way to Haryana. Madhya Pradesh received its 2nd Oxygen Express carrying 70.77 metric tonne of oxygen to Jabalpur and Sagar from Bokaro yesterday. The 3rd Oxygen Express to Jabalpur carrying 22.19 metric tonne oxygen is on its way from Rourkela and is expected to reach Jabalpur by tonight. Second 'Oxygen Express' to carry liquid oxygen from Bengal's Durgapur to DelhiUttar Pradesh will be receiving its 8th Oxygen Express en route from Bokaro carrying 44.88 metric tonne oxygen in three tankers. Uttar Pradesh has already received approximately 355 metric tonne of oxygen so far and more is on its way to Lucknow. Delhi will receive its 120 MT of LMO in 6 tankers from Durgapur in the next 24 hrs. Telangana will also receive its first Oxygen Express currently on the way from Angul carrying 124.26 MT oxygen.The railways has also deployed about 4,000 isolation coaches with 64,000 beds. These Isolation Coaches can be easily moved and positioned at places of demand on the Indian Railways network, it said.The railways is running 1,390 special trains and 5,387 suburban services per day. A total of 26 special trains are being operated as clones of highly patronised trains. About 794 passenger services are also being operated. Overall, approximately 70 per cent of the train services have been restored.To clear extra rush, the railways ran 370 additional train services as there was a high demand for trains in Gorakhpur, Patna, Darbhanga, Muzaffarpur, Bhagalpur, Varanasi, Guwahati, Manduadih, Barauni, Prayagraj, Bokaro, Ranchi, Lucknow and Kolkata.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/getting-demand-for-oxygen-express-from-every-area-of-the-country-railways-101619877306140.html
01-05-2021||India||Kerala logs 35,636 fresh Covid-19 cases, 48 deaths||Kerala recorded 35,636 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday, including 81 health workers, pushing the total caseload to15.69 lakh as the toll climbed to 5,356 with 48 deaths. As many as 15,493 people were discharged. Cumulatively 15,69,620 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 5,356 deaths and 12,77,294 discharges. There are 3,23,828 active cases at present, with 52,836 undergoing treatment in Ernakulam, 46,427 in Kozhikode and 36,650in Malappuram, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan told reporters. Kozhikode reported the highest number of 5,554 cases on Friday, Ernakulam had 5,002 and Thrissur 4070,while Malappuram and Thiruvananthapuram reported over 3,000 cases each. In the last 24 hours, 1,46,474 samples were tested and the Test Positivity Rate (TPR) stood at 24.33 per cent. The toll has mounted to 5,356 with 48 deaths. Of the positive cases, 81 are health workers, 223 had come from outside the state and 33,196 were infected through contact. A person who returned from South Africa tested positive in the last 24 hours, a government press release said. At least 108 returnees from UK, eight from South Africa and one from Brazil have so far tested positive for the virus. The samples of 114 of them returned negative and 11 were found infected with the mutant strains so far, it said. At least 6,87,843 people are under observation in various districts, including 25,326 in hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-logs-35-636-fresh-covid-19-cases-48-deaths-101619875111954.html
01-05-2021||India||'My close doctor friend is not taking calls': Bihar BJP MP on Covid crisis||In a long Facebook post, Bihar BJP chief, MP, Dr Sanjay Jaiswal wrote the Covid-19 situation has become so grim that his doctor friend is not taking his calls. "Because he can't do anything," the BJP leader wrote.The BJP leader who tested positive for coronavirus in July last year said people are not yet understanding the grimness of the situation, that there is no prevention of the virus apart from social distancing. "So far, we have arranged bed and oxygen in Champaran but now we are running out of those. It is concerning that the positivity rate in West Champaran has reached 30 per cent but people are still organising wedding, funerals."पिछले कुछ दिनों में कुछ अपनों को और बहुत सारे अपनों के अपनों को खो चुका हूं । खासकर दिल्ली में चाह कर भी बिहार के लोगों..."There is no treatment for Covid-19 in the world. The medicines which are available are not for Covid-19, but to treat the complications arising out of Covid," he wrote.The Facebook post, written on April 29, comes at a time when the country is fighting its hardest battle with the virus with the number of daily cases, deaths skyrocketing, amid an acute crisis of oxygen, hospital beds.On Friday, Bihar chief secretary Arun Kumar Singh died of Covid-19 at a private hospital in Patna. On Saturday, BJP MLC Hari Narayan Choudhary died of Covid-19 while undergoing treatment at a hospital in Patna.Bihar is one of the 10 states reporting 74 per cent of new cases in the alst 24 hours. On Friday, Bihar recorded 15m853 new infections, which took its active tally to over 1.5 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/my-close-doctor-friends-are-not-taking-calls-bihar-bjp-mp-on-covid-crisis-101619873478786.html
01-05-2021||India||Covid-19 lockdown extended by a week in Delhi, tweets CM Kejriwal||Amid rise in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the capital city, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said that the existing lockdown in Delhi, which was supposed to end on May 3, will be extended by one week. Lockdown in Delhi was first imposed on April 19 for one week to curb the spread of the infection which has been on the rise in the city for the past one month. The April 19 lockdown was put in place till April 26, but was further extended till May 3.Lockdown in Delhi is being extended by one weekDelhi on Friday recorded 27,047 new Covid-19 cases and 375 deaths, according to the health bulletin. The total number of active cases in Delhi stood at 99,361, and the overall Covid-19 caseload reached 1,149,333. As 25,288 patients recovered from the viral disease on Friday, cumulative recoveries stood at 1,033,825. The positivity rate in the national capital stood at 32.69 per cent while the case fatality rate stood at 1.40 per cent.The rules under the existing lockdown, will therefore be extended till May 10, owing to which only essential facilities in Delhi such as groceries, dairies, shops selling fruits and vegetables, bakeries, and confectionaries shall remain open.Read more: Senior doctor among 12 dead after Delhi hospital runs out of oxygenOther than these, banks, insurance offices, ATMs, print and electronic media, telecommunication internet, broadcasting, IT and cable-related services and e-commerce delivery services are also allowed to function during the period of the lockdown. Petrol pumps, LPG, CNG, petroleum and gas retail and storage outlets shall also remain open.Movement of essential services providers with a valid ID card will be allowed. These include medical personnel, banks employees, insurance officers, stock-related officers, telecommunications, internet services, broadcasting and people involved in the delivery of essential goods like food, pharmaceuticals. Additionally, central government officials, judicial officers, officials working in the offices of diplomats of other countries as well as persons holding any constitutional post are also exempted.Read more: Vaccination for people between 18-44 yrs in Delhi to start on Monday: KejriwalEmergency medical and healthcare-related facilities, such as private hospitals, nursing homes, diagnostic centres, medicinal clinics, testing laboratories, pharmacies, medical oxygen suppliers and other associated services shall also remain functional during this period. Moreover, patients seeking medical services are allowed to travel for the same upon the production of valid identity cards, doctor's prescription, or medical papers.Moreover, public transport facilities, such as Delhi Metro and public buses will be allowed with 50% seating capacity during the lockdown period while autos, e-rickshaws, taxis, and app-based cabs can carry can up to a maximum of 2 passengers.Intra-state and inter-state movement of essential goods is not prohibited under the lockdown in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-lockdown-extended-by-a-week-tweets-cm-kejriwal-101619871832848.html
01-05-2021||India||Jailed Samajwadi Party leader Azam Khan tests positive for Covid-19||Senior Samajwadi Party leader Mohammad Azam Khan tested positive for Covid along with 13 other prisoners in Sitapur jail, officials said on Saturday.The 72-year-old Rampur MP and the other prisoners tested positive for the infection in both rapid antigen and RT-PCR tests, said RS Yadav, jailer, Sitapur Jail.He said the Covid-19 tests were conducted after complaints of fever and cough. Initially, the rapid antigen was done and later the samples were sent for the RT-PCR test, the reports of which came positive late Friday night, he said.Meanwhile, the Samajwadi Party (SP) demanded that Khan be shifted to a high-level hospital considering his age.“News of MP Azam Khan getting Covid-19 infected is extremely saddening. Considering the age of Azam Khan, he should be immediately shifted out of the jail hospital, and admitted to a high-level hospital by the government," the party said in a tweet in Hindi.Yadav said the treatment of the SP leader is going on as per Covid-19 protocol and he has been isolated."Azam Khan is under the observation of doctors and his condition is stable," the jailer said, adding that the other Covid-19 positive prisoners have also been isolated and are under treatment.Khan, along with his son and wife, has been in jail since February last year in connection with various cases of land grabbing, encroachment and others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jailed-samajwadi-party-leader-azam-khan-tests-positive-for-covid19-101619871787424.html
01-05-2021||India||India, Russia together against Covid-19, says Russian envoy as Sputnik V arrives||The first consignment of 150,000 doses of Russia made Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V arrived in Hyderabad on Saturday, the same day on which India began its third phase of Covid-19 vaccination to inoculate everyone above the age of 18 years."First batch of #SputnikV vaccine arrives in Hyderabad, India! That's the same day the country starts mass Covid vaccination drive covering its entire adult population. Let's jointly defeat this pandemic. Together we are stronger," Sputnik V, which claims to be the world's first Covid-19 vaccine with an efficacy of 91.6 per cent, developed by Gamaleya Institute tweeted.First batch of #SputnikV vaccine arrives in Hyderabad, India! That's the same day the country starts mass COVID vaccination drive covering its entire adult population. Let's jointly defeat this pandemic. Together we are stronger.✌️ pic.twitter.com/312Kvtax1LThe Drug Controller General (DCGI) last month granted permission to Dr Reddy's Laboratories for importing the Russian shot to India for emergency use.The Russian vaccine will be the third shot available in India besides the Serum Institute of India-manufactured Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine and the country's indigenous vaccine Covaxin manufactured by Bharat Biotech.Also read: PM Modi speaks to Putin, says 'cooperation on Sputnik-V will assist humanity'Nikolay Kudashev, the Russian envoy to India also shared the news about the delivery of the first batch of the vaccine to India. Recognising the joint efforts of the two countries to combat Covid-19, he said the move is especially important to support the Indian government against the deadly second wave of coronavirus disease."Happy to share that the first batch of the #SputnikV vaccine delivered in Hyderabad! As #RussiaIndia continue dedicated joint efforts to combat the #Covid-19, this move is especially important to support the Indian Government’s endeavours to mitigate deadly second wave and save lives," Kudashev said after the consignment reached India.Happy to share that the first batch of the #SputnikV vaccine delivered in Hyderabad! As #RussiaIndia continue dedicated joint efforts to combat the #COVID19, this move is especially important to support the Indian Government’s endeavors to mitigate deadly 2nd wave & save lives. pic.twitter.com/0zY0bTTOKlIndian ambassador to Russia Bala Venkatesh Varma had earlier said that around 150,000 to 200,000 vaccines are expected to be available in the country by the initial part of May.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19The first vaccine from abroad arrived in India the same day as the country recorded a grim milestone of more than 400,000 fresh Covid-19 cases in a single day.Apart from Russia, the US, Britain, Canada, Japan, Iran, Pakistan, Taiwan also extended support to battle this destructive wave of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-russia-together-against-covid-19-says-russian-envoy-as-sputnik-v-arrives-101619867996196.html
01-05-2021||India||Indian scientists flag coronavirus mutations that could 'evade immune response'||A forum of scientific advisers set up by the Indian government has told authorities about minor mutations in some samples of the coronavirus that could "possibly evade immune response" and require more study, a leader of the forum has told Reuters.However the advisers said while they were flagging the mutations, there was no reason currently to believe they were expanding or could be dangerous.Scientists are studying what led to the current surge in cases in India and particularly whether a variant first detected in the country, called B.1.617, is to blame. The World Health Organization has not declared the Indian variant a "variant of concern," as it has done for variants first detected in Britain, Brazil and South Africa. But the WHO said on April 27 that its early modelling, based on genome sequencing, suggested that B.1.617 had a higher growth rate than other variants circulating in India.The forum of advisers, known as the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genetics Consortium, or INSACOG, has now found more mutations in the coronavirus that it thinks need to be tracked closely."We are seeing some mutation coming up in some samples that could possibly evade immune responses," said Shahid Jameel, chair of the scientific advisory group of INSACOG and a top Indian virologist. He did not say if the mutations have been seen in the Indian variant or any other strain."Unless you culture those viruses and test them in the lab, you can't say for sure. At this point, there is no reason to believe that they are expanding or if they can be dangerous, but we flagged it so that we keep our eye on the ball," he said.INSACOG brings together 10 national research laboratories.India reported more than 400,000 new Covid-19 cases for the first time on Saturday. The rampaging infections have collapsed its health system in places including capital New Delhi, with shortages of medical oxygen and hospital beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-scientists-flag-coronavirus-mutations-that-could-evade-immune-response-101619869932182.html
01-05-2021||India||As India fights Covid-19 second wave, here's all you need to know about oxygen concentrators||As India battles the second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), oxygen concentrators have seen a renewed surge in demand, with disease-stricken patients and their relatives scrambling to get hold of one when faced with alarming drops in oxygen levels. Oxygen therapy has also emerged as a leading treatment in severe Covid-19 cases and as a helpful alternative to depleting stocks of liquid oxygen, as evident by the central government announcing on April 28 that it will procure such concentrators in states gravely burdened with coronavirus cases.However, using an oxygen concentrator correctly is no easy task, and although it is at the forefront of treating Covid-19 patients isolated at home, proper guidance is necessary. Here's a primer on how oxygen concentrators work and when they would be required, if at all:What is oxygen therapy?To understand how oxygen concentrators work, one first needs to understand how oxygen is used in the medical treatment of Covid-19.The coronavirus brings about a respiratory disease, meaning it affects our lungs and subsequently alters the otherwise normal, steady flow of oxygen from the lungs to the various cells within our body. When one contracts the coronavirus disease, it can cause the oxygen to drop to alarming levels, thereby requiring oxygen therapy. This treatment uses an external supply of medical oxygen to artificially enhance our oxygen levels to clinically acceptable levels.Oxygen level is measured by oxygen saturation, known briefly as SpO2. This is a measure of the amount of oxygen-carrying haemoglobin in the blood. A healthy individual with normal lungs will have an arterial oxygen saturation of 95% – 100%.The World Health Organization (WHO) mandates that if the oxygen saturation level is 94% or lower, the patient needs to be treated quickly. SpO2 of less than 90% is a clinical emergency. Now, as per the Covid-19-related guidelines issued by the Union health ministry, the patient needs to be admitted to a hospital if the oxygen concentration goes down to 93% or lower, while that below 90% is classified as a severe disease, requiring admission in ICU.How do oxygen concentrators work?We know that atmospheric air contains around 78% nitrogen and 21% oxygen. Oxygen concentrators are simple devices that do precisely what their names suggest -- they take in ambient air and increase its oxygen concentration by filtering away the nitrogen.In a way, these oxygen concentrators function in a similar manner as oxygen tanks or cylinders do, supplying oxygen to the body with the use of a cannula, oxygen masks, or nasal tubes. The only difference is -- while cylinders and canisters need to be refilled, oxygen concentrators can work 24x7.There is also a difference in quantity. While oxygen concentrators can provide around 5-10 litres per minute and are thus suitable for patients down with a moderate case of Covid-19, critical patients often require up to 40-50 litres of oxygen per minute which these concentrators would not be able to provide. In such cases, one would need liquid medical oxygen (LMO), which is stored in cryogenic tankers, to replenish the body's supply to acceptable clinical levels.When to use oxygen concentrators?Does this mean anyone who finds their oxygen level falling below acceptable levels can use a concentrator and help oneself? Absolutely not, says the central government.Speaking to the Press Information Bureau (PIB) on the appropriate use of concentrators, Professor Sanyogita Naik, the head of the department of anaesthesia at the BJ Medical College in Pune, said: “Oxygen concentrators can be used only in moderate cases of Covid-19 when the patient experiences a drop in oxygen levels, where the oxygen requirement is a maximum of 5 litres per minute.” The professor added that oxygen concentrators are also very useful for patients experiencing post-Covid complications which necessitate oxygen therapy.Can one use oxygen concentrators on their own?The answer is a strict no.What do Doctors say about #Oxygen Concentrators?Till you get a bed, #OxygenConcentrator can be beneficial, but not without guidance from chest physician/internal medicine specialist; depends on patients' pre-existing lung conditions- Dr. Chaitanya👉https://t.co/LLG2u8mvuA pic.twitter.com/bGWp4h2q67Speaking at a webinar organised by the Union health ministry on April 30, Dr Chaitanya H. Balakrishnan, Covid co-ordinator at St. John’s Medical College Hospital in Bangalore, made it abundantly clear that using oxygen concentrators without medical guidance can be very harmful. “Patients with moderate pneumonia induced by Covid-19 -- with oxygen saturations less than 94 -- can benefit from supplemental oxygen given through an oxygen concentrator, but only till they get hospital admission. However, patients using it themselves without suitable medical advice can end up causing more harm.”According to the doctor, using an oxygen concentrator can prove to be beneficial until a patient finds a bed, but not without guidance from a chest physician or internal medicine specialist. It also depends on a patients' pre-existing lung conditions, he said.How much do oxygen concentrators cost in India?Oxygen concentrators can cost upwards of ₹30,000, depending upon the capacity. India has recently seen a big spurt in the manufacture and sale of such O2 concentrators. Besides multi-national brands, several Indian start-ups, funded under the Centre for Augmenting War with Covid 19 Health Crisis (CAWACH) programme of the department of science and technology, have developed efficient and cost-effective oxygen concentrators.However, both the purchase and the usage of oxygen concentrators have to be done only based on a prescription by a medical doctor. The central government has announced that one lakh oxygen concentrators are being procured through the PM-CARES fund, given how useful these devices have proved in battling the second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-you-need-to-know-about-oxygen-concentrators-101619865295750.html
01-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Senior doctor among 8 dead after Delhi’s Batra hospital runs out of oxygen, and all latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Won’t stop at 8, says Batra hospital after patients die due to oxygen disruptionEight patients with coronavirus disease (Covid-19), including a senior doctor, have died at Batra hospital in Tughlakabad Industrial Area due to a shortage of liquid medical oxygen. The hospital had raised an alarm at 7 am after it did not receive supplies from the allocated vendor. Read moreReliance rallies Covid-19 efforts, becomes largest producer of medical-grade liquid oxygen from a single locationReliance Industries Limited (RIL), one of the most profitable private firms in India, has rallied its resources "on a war footing" to combat the incessant oxygen crisis in the coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-battered country, the company said in a statement on Saturday. Read moreCentre extends tax-related compliance dates in view of Covid-19. Check detailsTimelines for certain compliances in view of the prevailing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation have been extended after receiving requests from taxpayers, tax consultants and other stakeholders across India, a government statement informed on Saturday. Read more‘Time to fulfil your duties’: Sonia Gandhi to Centre, states on Covid crisisCongress president Sonia Gandhi on Saturday asked state governments and the Centre to wake up from their slumber and respond to the crisis brought forth by the second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). In a video message, she said that it is time for governments to fulfil their duties. Read moreIPL 2021: Kane Williamson replaces David Warner as Sunrisers Hyderabad captainKane Williamson has replaced David Warner as captain of the Sunrisers Hyderabad and the New Zealand skipper will lead the side in the remainder of IPL 2021, the franchise announced on Twitter. Read moreSalman Khan says he looks 'the same age' as Disha Patani in Radhe, accepts kissing her through tapeAfter receiving some online flak for getting yet another, much younger female actor to star opposite him, Salman Khan has cracked a joke about the issue. Read moreHappy Birthday Anushka Sharma: Moringa to haldi, health mantras she swears byZero actor Anushka Sharma is celebrating her 33rd birthday today. And the actor, model, producer, entrepreneur and new mother has always sworn by a healthy lifestyle and holistic living. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-senior-doctor-among-8-dead-after-delhi-s-batra-hospital-runs-out-of-oxygen-and-all-the-latest-news-101619865609354.html
01-05-2021||India||‘Time to wake up’: Sonia Gandhi’s video message to govts on Covid crisis||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Saturday asked the central government to evolve a political consensus on a nationwide action plan to tackle the coronavirus crisis, which she said, has shattered humanity due to shortage of beds, oxygen and life-saving medicines.“This is the time for central and state governments to wake up and fulfil their duties,” she said in a five-minute video message that stressed the need for compassion and empathy.Flagging the shortage of crucial resources, which have made the battle against the pandemic a lot more difficult, she said: “Lakhs of people are getting affected amid the pandemic everyday, lakhs have died so far. These are testing times and we have to support each other. Most states continue to grapple with shortage of medical oxygen, hospital beds and medicines.”She also reiterated the nine demands of the Congress including free vaccination for all, transferring ₹6,000 to the accounts of migrant workers and nudging the government to opt for compulsory licensing of Covid vaccines that would enable other manufacturers to start producing the vaccines too.“I urge the central government to evolve a national policy to deal with the Covid crisis in the country and bring about a political consensus over it,” the Congress president said.“Our country is facing the pandemic and lakhs of our citizens have been affected by coronavirus everyday. This crisis is the testing time for all of us and we have to hold each other’s hands, support each other and be their strength.She also sought an increase in testing and keeping the black marketing of essential life-saving drugs like Remdesivir in check and putting a stop to it. The Congress leader batted for uniform prices of Covid vaccines across all states and immediate conversion of industrial oxygen to medical oxygen to fight the acute shortage of oxygen in various states.Gandhi also promised that the Congress will help and support the central government in whatever way it can in its fight against this crisis.The Congress president’s video message came on the day the country reported 4,01, 993 new Covid cases, a new global record. 3,523 deaths were reported. The third phase of the world’s largest vaccination drive has started on Saturday even as 20 states flag vaccine shortage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/time-to-wake-up-sonia-gandhi-s-video-message-to-govts-on-covid-crisis-101619867692956.html
01-05-2021||India||Govt allows import of oxygen concentrators for personal use amid Covid-19 surge||The government has revised the Foreign Trade Policy, 2015-2020 and permitted the import of oxygen concentrators for personal use amid a massive surge in Covid-19 cases in the country.An official press release from the ministry of commerce and industry stated that oxygen concentrators have been added to the list of exempted categories, where customs clearance is sought as ''gifts".These oxygen concentrators can be procured through post, courier or e-commerce portals.The exemption for oxygen concentrators is allowed till July 31, 2021, for personal use, according to a notification of the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) issued on Friday."Import of goods, including those purchased from e-commerce portals, through post or courier, where customs clearance is sought as gifts, is prohibited except for life-saving drugs/medicines/ oxygen concentrators and rakhi (but not gifts related to rakhi)," the notification said.India's health care system is overwhelmed with the current surge in Covid-19 cases and there is a shortage of oxygen, beds and medicines.The country recorded more than four lakh new cases in the past 24 hours. 4,01,993 cases were reported in the country taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 1,91,64,969.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-allows-import-of-oxygen-concentrators-for-personal-use-amid-covid-19-surge-101619863160557.html
01-05-2021||India||Telangana CM takes away health minister's portfolio over allegations of grab||Chief minister of Telangana K Chandrashekhar Rao on Saturday took away the portfolio of state health minister Etala Rajendar after allegations of land grab came into light against the latter. The portfolio of the Telangana Medical, Health and Family Welfare minister will be transferred to the CM with immediate effect, secretary to the Governor said.On Friday, KCR had instructed chief secretary Somesh Kumar to order an inquiry into the allegations leveled by 20 farmers accusing the minister of grabbing around 20 acres of the lands on the outskirts of Achampet in Masaipet Mandal in Medak district, news agency ANI reported.Also Read: Aviation ministry permits Telangana govt to use drones for Covid-19 vaccines deliveryDirector General of Police (vigilance) Purnachandra Rao was also instructed to conduct a primary inquiry into the matter.Responding to the allegation, Rajendar said his 'self-respect' is more valuable to him than his position and demanded that hearing be conducted in the matter. Further, he dismissed the allegations as a 'pre-planned sketch to defame him in the public."Back in 2016, for the establishment of a hatchery, I had taken a loan of ₹100 crores from Canara Bank. The land about which allegations are being made to have been grabbed by me is still being used by the beneficiaries and is not under my properties," Rajender said.Meanwhile, the Opposition accused KCR of making Rajendar a scapegoat in an attempt to divert attention from his failure to curb the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infection in his state."It is unfortunate that the backward caste Minister E Rajender is being made a scapegoat by the CM to cover up his utter failures in curtailing the pandemic in Telangana. KCR is believed to have cornered the minister with wide allegations of land grabbing only to defame his character among the people," All India Congress Committee (AICC) spokesperson Sravan Dasoju said.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-cm-takes-away-health-minister-s-portfolio-over-allegations-of-grab-101619864035706.html
01-05-2021||India||Second 'Oxygen Express' to carry liquid oxygen from Bengal's Durgapur to Delhi||The second Oxygen Express for Delhi will carry the life-saving gas from West Bengal's Durgapur, Railway Minister Piyush Goyal said on Saturday.The first such train arrived in Delhi from Chhattisgarh carrying 70 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen."Oxygen tanks are being loaded from Durgapur, West Bengal, on Oxygen Express to provide Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) for patients in Delhi," Goyal said in a tweet.This will be the first Oxygen Express which will carry the oxygen in containers provided by Singapore which were received at the container corporation terminal near Durgapur.The containers were directly loaded on flat wagons of the Oxygen Express and departed at around 12:45 pm for Delhi, officials said, adding that it will take the train around 18 hours to reach the national capital.The second train will carry 120 tonnes of medical oxygen for the oxygen-starved national capital.Meanwhile, the railway ministry also said that Haryana will receive its first and second Oxygen Express soon.Two trains, one from Rourkela to Haryana carrying 47.11 tonnes LMO in three tankers, and another one from Angul to Haryana carrying approximately 32 tonnes in two tankers, are on their way to their destination. The trains are scheduled to reach by Saturday afternoon, it said.The Haryana government had earlier sent empty tankers on a cargo flight from Hindon to Bhubaneshwar, and loaded tankers from Angul were dispatched to Faridabad by rail.Till Friday, the railways has delivered more than 664 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen to Maharashtra (174 tonnes), Uttar Pradesh (356.47 tonnes), Madhya Pradesh (47.37 tonnes), and Delhi (70 tonnes).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/second-oxygen-express-to-carry-liquid-oxygen-from-bengal-s-durgapur-to-delhi-101619862461369.html
01-05-2021||India||‘Time to fulfil your duties’: Sonia Gandhi to Centre, states on Covid crisis||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Saturday asked state governments and the Centre to wake up from their slumber and respond to the crisis brought forth by the second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). In a video message, she said that it is time for governments to fulfil their duties.Gandhi also said that it is time for the central government to build a political consensus and develop a national policy to tackle the pandemic. She also urged the Centre to vaccinate every citizen for free and asked the government to ramp up vaccine production to speed up the vaccination drive. Assuring co-operation of the Congress, Sonia Gandhi urged for strict action against black marketing of essential life-saving drugs, while highlighting the importance of testing.She also urged the central government to provide financial assistance of ₹6,000 to every poor family in order to help them survive the second wave.The Congress has set up control rooms to help people in distress and the move was approved by Sonia Gandhi last week to ensure better coordination between the party's state units about relief activities. She also asked Rae Bareli district magistrate last week to use the remaining amount of her MPLADS funds for helping out people suffering due to the pandemic.India recorded a grim milestone on Saturday as it reported 401,993 fresh cases which took the cumulative caseload above 19,164,969. The death toll also inched towards 212,000 as 3,523 fresh fatalities took the toll to 211,853.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/time-to-fulfil-your-duties-sonia-gandhi-to-centre-states-on-covid-crisis-101619861751425.html
01-05-2021||India||Delhi HC seeks info of patients admitted, discharged at hospitals since April 1 to review 'malpractice' allegations||The Delhi high court on Saturday sought information on a number of patients admitted, discharged, undergoing treatment at Delhi hospitals since April 1 to review allegations related to 'malpractices' and accusations of beds not being vacated. The sought information should be sent to court by Tuesday, the court said. It will be considered by the court on May 6. The court also asked the Delhi government to submit data of patients who remained hospitalised for 10 days or more and the kind of bed they occupied over the days of their hospitalisation.The high court was hearing multiple pleas filed by several hospitals regarding the oxygen crisis and other Covid-19- related issues that the national Capital is grappling with. A division bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli was hearing the pleas in a special hearing on a holiday due to the prevailing Covid-19 situation in DelhiThe court also directed the Delhi government to update its portal with the numbers of patients discharged and admitted on daily basis.The Delhi High Court also directed the Centre to ensure that Delhireceives its allocated 490 MT oxygen supply today by "whatever means." The court warned of 'Contempt action' in case the centre fails to follow the orders."Water has gone above the head. Now we mean business. You (Centre) will arrange everything now," the court said. "Enough is enough and you will make an arrangement," it also said.Multiple hospitals told the High Court that their supplier Linde Air is not providing the oxygen after which it asked central government counsel Amit Mahajan to forthwith take up the matter with the officers of the central government on supply of oxygen from Linde and others.Noting that the allocation to Delhi has been in force from April 20, the court said that not for a single day Delhi has received the allocated supply. In response, additional solicitor general Chetan Sharma said that everybody is stretched."You (Centre) made an allocation. You fulfill it. You comply it," the Court said.During the hearing, the court questioned the Centre as to why four cryogenic tankers, which were meant for Delhi to treat Covid-19 patients and held up by the Rajasthan government, have not been released yet despite the court's earlier orders.A bench ordered to let necessary steps be taken to fulfil the assurance given by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta on April 26 that these tankers will be released.It asked the Centre to place compliance of its order on May 3.Delhi is reeling under the devastating impact of the fourth wave of Covid-19 which has pushed the already burdened healthcare system to its knees. Many people in the city are running from pillar to post to get basic things like beds, oxygen and ventilators.As of Friday evening, the national capital has a caseload of 1,149,333 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-high-court-asks-to-set-up-oxygen-plants-as-8-die-in-batra-hospital-101619860987171.html
01-05-2021||India||Provided over 16 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses to states free of charge: Centre||The Centre has so far provided over 16.37 crore Covid vaccine doses to States and Union Territories free of cost and another 17 lakh doses will be received by them in the next 3 days, the Union health ministry said on Saturday.As the younger population of the nation becomes eligible for vaccination against coronavirus today with the start of the third phase of inoculation drive, the ministry said that more than 79 lakh vaccine doses are still available with the states and union territories to be administered to their population.As many as 16,37,62,300 Covid-19 vaccine doses have been provided to states and union territories (UTs) free of cost as per data available till 8am on Saturday, the ministry said.Out of 16,37,62,300 Covid-19 vaccines, the total consumption including wastages is 15,58,48,782 doses, the ministry stated.Maharashtra has received the maximum number of vaccines followed by Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan.Lakshadweep has reported the highest percentage of vaccine wastage with 9.76% followed by Tamil Nadu at 8.83%, Assam at 7.70%, Manipur at 7.44%, and Haryana at 5.72%.The highest balance availability of doses is with Uttar Pradesh amounting to 12,10,220 doses."As was prescribed in the liberalised and accelerated Phase-3 strategy of Covid-19 vaccination, all the states and UTs have been intimated by the Union ministry of health and family welfare regarding the total number of vaccine doses that they would receive as part of the "Government of India channel", of the vaccine doses totally free of cost for the vaccination of 45 years and above beneficiaries," read the release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/provided-over-16-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-to-states-free-of-charge-centre-101619859686234.html
01-05-2021||India||Heartbreaking to see Covid crisis overwhelm India's health systems: US lawmakers||Top US lawmakers have expressed serious concern over the sudden spike in coronavirus cases in India, saying it is "heartbreaking" to see the "crisis utterly overwhelm the health systems" in the country."India's latest surge of Covid-19 infections is a humanitarian crisis that requires our assistance," Congressman Brad Sherman, Democratic Co-Chair of India Caucus in the House of Representatives, said on Friday."As long as Covid-19 persists in India, there is the potential for additional variants that could pose a serious threat to a vaccinated America. We must do our part to quell the virus anywhere and everywhere it persists," Sherman said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageA variant strain of the virus, known as B.1.617, is circulating in India, along with other variant strains, including B.1.1.7, first detected in the United Kingdom, and B.1.351, first detected in South Africa.A day earlier, Sherman and his other colleagues Republican Co-Chair Steve Chabot, Democratic Vice Chair Ro Khanna, and Republican Vice Chair Michael Waltz held a detailed meeting with Indian Ambassador to the US, Taranjit Singh Sandhu, and on Friday they wrote a letter to President Joe Biden seeking increased aid to India.“I thank my India Caucus colleagues for working together to help get India the oxygen, therapeutics, and personal protective equipment it so desperately needs,” Sherman said."It is heartbreaking to watch the Covid-19 crisis utterly overwhelm the health systems in India,” Chabot said.“As co-chair of the House Caucus on India and Indian Americans and the Ranking Member of the Asia and Pacific Subcommittee, I appreciate the aid the administration is sending to our friends in India during their time of need," he said."But the administration must do more, which is why I am joining with the other Members of India Caucus leadership to push for additional assistance, particularly with respect to oxygen and oxygen production equipment that is so urgently needed. America must help India chart a path out of this horrific pandemic," Chabot said."We are watching a catastrophe unfold in India. Someone is dying of Covid-19 every four minutes in New Delhi. The least we can do is give the world the tools to prevent more deaths," Khanna said."We must do our part to quell the virus anywhere and everywhere it persists. It is not enough to vaccinate every American. We need to ensure the world beats this thing. That's why the India Caucus is asking President Biden to send more oxygen and other medical supplies to help India in the manufacturing of additional vaccines. There's simply too much at stake," he said.Waltz said the United States' cooperation to curb the recent Covid-19 wave in India is imperative for America's national interest."India is the world's largest democracy and an essential ally with the third largest military in the world and a border with China. India's strength is important to stability in Asia and the United States," Waltz said.India is struggling with a second wave of the pandemic with more than 300,000 daily new coronavirus cases being reported in the past few days and hospitals are reeling under a shortage of medical oxygen and beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heartbreaking-to-see-covid-crisis-overwhelm-india-s-health-systems-us-lawmakers-101619858575901.html
01-05-2021||India||India added to Ireland's mandatory quarantine list from May 4||India is among the five countries that will be added to Ireland's mandatory hotel quarantine list from Tuesday, the Irish government has announced.Besides India, the other countries that have been added to the list for mandatory quarantine from May 4 are Georgia, Iran, Mongolia and Costa Rica."Travel to Ireland from specific designated states is now subject to mandatory hotel quarantine. This must be pre-booked in advance of travel," according to an official statement on Friday.The passengers are required to pre-pay for their stay during the quarantine period.According to the Department of Health, it is an offence to travel to Ireland without making the booking in advance, without reasonable excuse.The arrangements will apply to any passenger who has been in any of these countries in the previous 14 days, even if only transiting through one of these countries and even if remaining airside.These arrangements also apply to any passenger who is travelling on to Northern Ireland, the statement said."It is important to note that the list of designated states will be subject to change at short notice and passengers are required to check the list before travelling to Ireland, to be sure of their obligations," it said.Coronavirus cases in India hit a record daily high with over 4 lakh new infections being reported in the last 24 hours, while the active cases crossed the 32-lakh mark, according to date updated by the Union Health Ministry on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-added-to-ireland-s-mandatory-quarantine-list-from-may-4-101619858473164.html
01-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: ‘Lockdown for few weeks,' says Anthony Fauci on India's Covid-19 crisis and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Lockdown for a few weeks': US' Anthony Fauci on India's Covid-19 crisisAnthony Fauci, the US' top epidemiologist and one of the leading global voices on the coronavirus pandemic, suggested India must impose a complete lockdown for a few weeks as an immediate step to contain the surging infections which have brought the country's healthcare system to its knees. Read More150,000 doses of Russian Sputnik V vaccine on way to HyderabadA consignment of Russian-made Sputnik V vaccine is on its way to Hyderabad from Moscow with the first batch of 150,000 doses set to arrive later on Saturday with another three million doses scheduled to land this month. Read MoreSupreme Court allows UP panchayat polls counting, no victory rallies permittedThe Supreme Court on Saturday allowed the Uttar Pradesh government and State Election Commission to go ahead with the counting of votes polled during the rural body elections in the state earlier in April, starting Sunday. Read MoreBrad Hogg says RCB cannot expect Maxwell and de Villiers 'to pick up the pieces all the time', highlights slow run-rateRoyal Challengers Bangalore put in a disappointing performance on Friday as they lost their second match in the Indian Premier League 2021. Read MoreActor Bikramjeet Kanwarpal of Special Ops and Rocket Singh, dies of Covid-19 complications at 52Actor Bikramjeet Kanwarpal has died of Covid-19 complications. He was 52. He was a retired army veteran who made his acting debut in 2003. Read MoreShawn Mendes, Kunal Nayyar, Richard Madden and more international stars ask fans to help India amid Covid-19 pandemicSinger Shawn Mendes took to his social media accounts on Friday to make an urgent appeal to his fans and followers. He asked them to make donations so as to help India fight the deadly second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-lockdown-for-a-few-weeks-says-us-anthony-fauci-on-india-s-covid-19-crisis-and-all-the-latest-news-101619854868618.html
01-05-2021||India||‘Lockdown for a few weeks': US' Anthony Fauci on India's Covid-19 crisis||Anthony Fauci, the US' top epidemiologist and one of the leading global voices on the coronavirus pandemic, suggested India must impose a complete lockdown for a few weeks as an immediate step to contain the surging infections which have brought the country's healthcare system to its knees. "Well, one of the things you really need to do, to the extent that you can, is shut down temporarily the country, I think it is important. India is in a very difficult and desperate situation. So when you have a situation like that you’ve got to look at the absolute immediate," Fauci told the Indian Express.Fauci, the chief medical adviser to the Biden administration and one of the most trusted people to speak on the Covid-19 pandemic, said it is not necessary to shut down a country for six months, instead, it can be done for few weeks and it will still end the cycle of transmission. "Literally, lockdown so that you wind up having less spread. No one likes to lock down the country. Well, that's a problem when you do it for six months. It can have a significant impact on the Covid-19 dynamics," he added.Fauci also cited China as an example and said that the country closed all its establishment last year when the Covid-19 cases were exploding.The American physician-scientist also suggested that India should put together a group of experts that would meet and get things organised to fight the pandemic. "I heard from some of the people in the street bringing their mothers and their fathers and their sisters and their brothers searching for oxygen. They seem to think there really was not any organisation, any central organisation," Fauci said."I would think that you’ve got to get some sort of a commission, or an emergency group to make a plan how to get oxygen; how do we get supplies; how do we get medications, and call—maybe with help from WHO—countries," Fauci also said during the interview with the newspaper. Fauci is the chief medical adviser to the Biden administration and is one of the most trusted people to speak on the Covid-19 pandemic.In another key step, Fauci suggested that India should immediately get supplies of oxygen, medication. "I think the most important thing in the immediate is to get oxygen, get supplies, get medication, get PPE, those kinds of things but also, one of the immediate things to do is to essentially call a shutdown of the country," Fauci said.Fauci also said that the victory over Covid-19 was "declared maybe too prematurely" in India. He did not name anyone while making the statement. Fauci also suggested that the country should build temporary hospitals like "they put up these field hospitals that they built during war" quickly. "You should think of this, in some respects, like a war. The enemy is the virus. So you know where the enemy is, so I would make it almost like wartime because it’s an emergency," he said.Underlining that vaccination plays a crucial role in handling the Covid-19 situation, Fauci said if India, a country of 1.4 billion people, has fully vaccinated only two per cent of its total population, then it has a very long way to go. "This is what I heard. I don’t know if that’s accurate but that’s what I’m hearing (2% is the number of those who have got both doses, 11% have got at least one dose). And, if that’s the case, you have a long way to go if you really want to protect the people in India," Fauci was quoted as saying in the report."I would leave no stone unturned in getting as many companies as you possibly can to be able to make a contractual arrangement to get vaccines. And also, India is the largest vaccine-producing country in the world. That’s the thing, you should rev up your own capabilities to make vaccines," Fauci added.India is reeling under the second and deadlier wave of the coronavirus pandemic. On Saturday, the number of daily coronavirus cases in India crossed the 400,000 mark for the first time as the country struggled to contain the pandemic. As of Saturday morning, the country’s tally stands at 19,164,969 and the death toll has gone up to 211,853.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-for-a-few-weeks-us-anthony-fauci-on-india-s-covid-19-crisis-101619854235646.html
01-05-2021||India||150,000 doses of Russian Sputnik V vaccine on way to Hyderabad||A consignment of Russian-made Sputnik V vaccine is on its way to Hyderabad from Moscow with the first batch of 150,000 doses set to arrive later on Saturday with another three million doses scheduled to land this month.According to diplomats based in Moscow and New Delhi, the flight carrying 150,000 doses of the preventive vaccine left Russian shores this morning and will be handed over to Dr Reddy’s Laboratories. Before the doses are handed over for vaccination, the Indian partner of the Russian vaccine will seek mandatory approval from the Central Drugs Laboratory, Kasauli.Also read | Gap between Sputnik-V doses can be increased, say makersSputnik V is based on human adenoviral vectors, is one of three vaccines (other two are Pfizer and Moderna) that have an efficacy of over 90 per cent against the coronavirus disease, which is caused by SARS-CoV-2. It was given regulatory approval or restricted use authorisation in India on April 12. The two-dose vaccine, which has to be administered 21 days apart, has been developed by the Gamaleya National Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology and is supported by the Russian sovereign wealth fund, Russian Direct Investment Fund or RDIF.According to officials, some five million “filled and finished” bottles of Sputnik V will arrive in a container from Russia in June and some 10 million-plus vaccines in July. New Delhi has asked Moscow for the ramped-up supply of the vaccine as it wants to vaccinate as many Indians as possible in the shortest time.The Sputnik V vaccine delivery started after Prime Minister Narendra Modi had a long conversation with Russian President Vladimir Putin on April 28. The diplomats based in Moscow say that the conversation was “very warm” between the two leaders with Russia standing with India in this hour of national crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/150000-doses-of-russian-sputnik-v-vaccine-on-way-to-hyderabad-101619851846945.html
01-05-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccination for people in 18-44 age group begins at some private hospitals||Some private hospital chains commenced the Covid-19 immunisation drive for the 18-44 age group at limited centres in the country on Saturday, officials said.Apollo Hospitals sources said the drive commenced at its centres in Hyderabad and Kolkata, but not in Delhi. They said that they are waiting for the vaccines to arrive and that the immunisation in Delhi is likely to begin either by Monday or Tuesday.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here Max Healthcare announced the drive will begin at "select hospitals in the network in the NCR of Delhi".The drive is yet to begin at Fortis Healthcare since it is waiting for the vaccine doses to arrive, sources said, adding it will start later in the day.Fortis Healthcare, in a statement, had said people in the 18-44 age group will be administered Covaxin for ₹1,250, which will include the cost of vaccine and administration charges, at its "centres across north India from Saturday".Also Read: Mumbai rolls out vaccine for 18+, mayor says ‘don’t go unless you get message’Max Healthcare had said all the hospitals in the network would be used to vaccinate the citizens as supplies of vaccine doses smoothen up."Presently, vaccines will be available at Max Healthcare facilities at Panchsheel Park, Patparganj, Shalimar Bagh, Rajinder Place (BLK-Max Hospital), Noida and Vaishali in the NCR," its statement read.Three big private hospital chains -- Apollo, Fortis and Max -- on Friday had announced the launch of Covid-19 immunisation drive for the 18-44 age group at limited centres in the country from May 1, while the Delhi government said it will start the vaccination exercise once it receives doses from the manufacturers.Meanwhile, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said required vaccine doses have not been received yet for the drive, indicating that the national capital will not join the national-level roll-out of Covid-19 vaccination for people aged 18-44 on May 1.He appealed to the people in the targeted age group not to line up at vaccination centres in the city on Saturday.The third phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive to inoculate people aged 18 years and above will roll out in the country on May 1. However, some states have said they would be unable to start the drive on day one due to the shortage of vaccines.Kejriwal said his government has placed orders for 67 lakh doses each of Covishield and Covaxin from manufacturers which would be supplied in three months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccination-for-people-in-18-44-age-group-begins-at-some-private-hospitals-101619851443477.html
01-05-2021||India||Joe Biden asked his administration to provide Covid-19 assistance to India: Officials||President Joe Biden has asked his administration to provide all assistance to India, which is battling one of the worst outbreaks of Covid-19, and has assured that the US would stand shoulder-to-shoulder with the country, top officials from the two nations have said.Biden sent two of his top officials to the Dulles Airport here on Friday evening from where another flight with USAID assistance materials including oxygen cylinders, N95 masks and filters to be used in the production of vaccines were dispatched to News Delhi. The first two flights arrived in New Delhi a day earlier.“He (Biden) said great. Stay with it. Stay with it!,” veteran diplomat Kurt Campbell, who is leading Biden’s Asia Policy at the White House told reporters at the airport on Friday evening.Campbell travelled with Biden on Air Force One during his trip to Georgia. On his way back, Campbell briefed the president of the administration’s COVID-19 relief efforts for India.“I was able to give a sense of what USAID (United States Agency for International Development) is doing, what it hopes to accomplish,” he said in response to a question.India’s Ambassador to the US Taranjit Singh Sandhu told reporters at the Dulles Airport: “The administration, starting right from the top, President Biden reached out and in fact, to quote him, the United States will stand shoulder-to-shoulder with India. We very much appreciate that.”Sandhu also applauded the bipartisan support that India has received from American congressmen and senators.The US businesses have come forward in an unprecedented way.“Finally, the people of the United States, their solidarity with the people of India is very much recognised and appreciated. And also the Indian American community. I'm sure, with the support of friends and partners like the United States, we will face this challenge and with God's grace, we will come out of it,” Sandhu said.Campbell said he and his National Security Council colleague Sumona Guha, who is senior director for South Asia there, were sent by the president to the airport before the Covid-19 relief material left for India.“The President asked us to come out today to well wish this supply going to India,” Campbell said, as he applauded the tireless efforts of Ambassador Sandhu for helping in every way he can.Campbell said during his call with Prime Minister Narendra Modi last week, Biden made clear that India was one of the first countries that came to the rescue of the US in May last year when Americans were suffering from the pandemic.“They stepped up for us. This time, we in the United States, our people in the government, but also in the private sector… I've never seen such an outpouring of support from our corporate friends, and partners, as we've seen over the last several days,” he said.“What we are coordinating is the most significant outpouring of support for people that I've never seen from the corporate community. We're trying to be there for India, now as they were with us before. We know that this is going to be a long haul,” he said.“This is only the first couple of days. We have to be determined. We have to work in partnership.....we have to do this together. And we're committed to doing that,” he said.Guha told reporters that the Biden administration was working to provide India with supplies that they've asked for: oxygen, testing equipment, and PPE kits.Jeremy Konyndyk, senior advisor coordinating agency-wide COVID efforts at USAID told reporters that the plane headed for India from Dulles airport sent oxygen cylinders, N95 respirators and others.“These are materials that will help to sustain people sick with COVID-19 in India. Oxygen treatment is one of the most effective ways to treat Severe COVID-19," he said."Everything behind us here, everything on this flight will be saving lives in India in the coming days in partnership and support of our partners in the Indian government and in support of the Indian people,” he added.Responding to a question, Konyndyk said the purpose of these aid packages is to help support the Indian people in the Indian hospital system in particular to save as many lives as possible in the immediate term. There will be additional flights leaving for India in days and weeks ahead.“As part of this package of assistance that the US is providing, we are at the request of the Indian government, rerouting filters that are a critical component of vaccine production, from the US production of AstraZeneca to the Indian company Serum Institute of India, to enable them to scale up their vaccine production of AstraZeneca further,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/joe-biden-asked-his-administration-to-provide-covid-19-assistance-to-india-officials-101619849362373.html
01-05-2021||India||Centre releases ₹8873 crore for SDRF, lets states use 50% for Covid-19 relief||The Centre on Saturday released the first instalment of the central share of the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) of ₹8873.6 crore for the year 2021-22 ahead of the normal schedule. The government said that the states can use up to 50% of the amount for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) containment measures, according to a statement released by the Union ministry of finance.“In relaxation of normal procedure, not only has the release of SDRF been advanced, the amount has also been released without waiting for the utilization certificate of the amount provided to the States in the last financial year. Up to 50% of the amount released i.e. Rs.4436.8 crore can be used by the states for Covid-19 containment measures,” the statement said.The decision to release the funds was made based on the recommendations made by the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA). The government said that the funds can be utilised to meet the cost of oxygen generation and storage plants in hospitals, procurement of ventilators, strengthening ambulance services as well as Covid-19 hospitals and Covid-19 care centres.The Centre also advised the states to use the funds for purchasing consumables, thermal scanners, personal protective equipment, testing laboratories, and testing kits.Several states requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to release SDRF funds so that they could take measures to address the challenges posed by the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in his letter to PM Modi urged him to consider the pandemic as a natural calamity and asked the Centre’s permission to use SDRF for helping pandemic-hit people.Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik also requested the Centre to allow 50% of the annual allocation of SDRF earmarked for the state earlier this month. Punjab chief minister during the online meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi with all chief ministers of states and Union territories hard-hit by Covid-19 sought permission for the use of the SDRF funds for vaccine procurement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-releases-rs-8873-6-crore-to-states-as-part-of-sdrf-funds-101619846330590.html
01-05-2021||India||US administration names Daniel Smith as charge d’affaires in New Delhi||The Biden administration on Saturday named former deputy secretary of state Daniel Smith as the new chargé d’affaires in New Delhi against the backdrop of close cooperation with India to counter the Covid-19 situation. The post of US ambassador to India has been vacant since Kenneth Juster, a political appointee of the former Trump administration, stepped down earlier this year following President Joe Biden’s victory in the election last year. “Ambassador Daniel Smith, the Director of the Foreign Service Institute who recently served as acting Secretary of State and Acting Deputy Secretary of State, will be departing for New Delhi to serve as Chargé d’Affaires, ad interim,” state department spokesperson Ned Price said. “He will spearhead close cooperation with India to ensure that our countries continue to advance our shared priorities, including overcoming the global pandemic,” Price said. Smith’s appointment underscores the United States’ “strong commitment to our partnership with the government of India and the Indian people”, he said. The US stands in solidarity with India, and Smith is committed to working together with India in partnership, Price added. Smith carries the highest US foreign service rank of career ambassador. His appointment was announced a day after the US began rushing equipment and materials, including oxygen-related gear and raw materials for Covid-19 vaccines, to support India’s response to a deadly second wave of Coronavirus infections. Smith was appointed director of the Foreign Service Institute in October 2018 and his term ended in January. A member of the Senior Foreign Service, Smith served most recently as assistant secretary of state for intelligence and research during 2013-2018 and as ambassador to Greece during 2010-2013. He also served as executive secretary of the state department and principal deputy assistant secretary for consular affairs. Smith has served in Bern, Istanbul, Ottawa and Stockholm, and also taught political science at the US Air Force Academy.He is a recipient of the Arnold L Raphel Memorial Award, the Secretary’s Distinguished Service Award, a Presidential Distinguished Service Award, and the National Intelligence Distinguished Service Medal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-administration-names-daniel-smith-as-charge-d-affaires-in-new-delhi-101619846933321.html
01-05-2021||India||LPG cylinder rates, Axis Bank ATM withdrawal charges: Changes from May 1||Many major changes, including those related to bank rules and LPG cylinder rates, are going to take place in the month of May. The third phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive for all adults above 18 years of age will also begin from May 1.Here are the changes that are going to take place from May 1:. More people will be covered under the ongoing nationwide Covid-19 vaccination programme, which started on January 16. From May 1, everyone above the age of 18 will become eligible for Covid-19 vaccines.. On the first day of every month, the state oil companies change the price of LPG gas cylinders. Gas prices may change on May 1 as well. Currently, the price of a 14.2 kg subsidised gas cylinder in Delhi is ₹809.. Axis Bank has decided to change the fee on various services for savings account holders from May 1. These include increasing the charge in the case of withdrawing cash from ATMs after the completion of the free transaction limit. The bank has also decided to increase the minimum balance requirement limit for various types of savings accounts. In case of cash withdrawal done after the free limit is over, the bank will charge ₹10 per ₹1,000.. From May 1, Axis Bank customers need to maintain a monthly balance of ₹15,000. Earlier, the limit was set at ₹10,000. For the prime and liberty branded savings account, the average monthly balance is fixed at ₹25,000, up from ₹15,000.. Axis Bank said that for salary accounts that are more than six months old and do not receive any credit in a month, a penalty of ₹100 per month will be levied from next month. Savings accounts that have been dormant for a period of 17 months will attract a one-time fee of ₹100 in the 18th month, the bank notified.. Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (IRDAI) has directed to double the cover amount of the Arogya Sanjeevani policy. The insurance companies have been told that they have to offer a policy with a cover amount of ₹10 lakh by May 1. In the current situation, the coverage limit commissioned from April 1 was ₹5 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lpg-cylinder-rates-axis-bank-atm-withdrawal-charges-changes-from-may-1-101619839615753.html
01-05-2021||India||PM wishes Maharashtra, Gujarat success in fight against Covid on statehood day||On the statehood day of Gujarat and Maharashtra on Saturday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi wished the two states success in their fight against the Covid-19 pandemic and good health for their people.While Maharashtra has been hit hardest by the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, Gujarat has also been seriously affected by it like many other states of the country. PM Modi tweeted, "Today, Gujarat and Maharashtra mark their Statehood Days. Both states are home to outstanding people, who have made landmark contributions to national growth. May these states fight Covid-19 successfully and may the people of these states be blessed with good health."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-wishes-maharashtra-gujarat-success-in-fight-against-covid-on-statehood-day-101619845245987.html
01-05-2021||India||Govt’s top scientific advisor responds to online petition for Covid datasets||The office of the Principal Scientific Advisor (PSA) has asked research collaboratives to create a mechanism to widely share available and new datasets and asked the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomic Consortia (INSACOG) to reach out to more partners, including independently supported ones, to expand genomic sequencing in India, according to a note from the government’s top scientific advisor.“Issues such as vaccine hesitancy, nature of variants, re-infection, extent, and nature of post-vaccination protection, etc. can all be addressed better by collaborative research. While this is being done by some groups now, our broader research community needs to be much more facilitated by our research agencies to be involved in addition to ‘bottom-up’ efforts,” read a note from the office of Principal Scientific Advisor Prof K VijayRaghavan.The note also sought “wider involvement of teams in data analysis, bioinformatics, and decision-making” by INSACOG.The communication comes in response to an online petition by scientists to seek open sharing of granular epidemiological and genomic surveillance data. The petition, signed by scientists from various fields across the country, demanded that the government collect and release key epidemiological data to help scientists in developing “data-driven mitigation strategies.”“Our inability to adequately manage the spread of infections has, to a large extent, resulted from epidemiological data not being systematically collected and released in a timely manner to the scientific community,” the online petition said. It has been signed by top scientists including the country’s top vaccinologist Dr Gagandeep Kang, biologist Dr Mukund Thattai, and epidemiologist Dr Jacob John.They also asked that restrictions on imports under “Atmanirbhar Bharat” policy be removed as they hampered scientific study for the want of imported scientific equipment and reagents. The note from the PSA office responded to this concern. “Delegation for clearances for imports have already been given, some months ago, to Secretaries ofDepartments/Ministries and decisions can be taken at the level of Deans and Institution directors. This will be examined, and specific steps taken to remove bottlenecks”.The scientists have made four major demands: large-scale genomic surveillance of new variants (the INSACOG sequences only 1% of the positive cases), release of granular data on testing and clinical outcome of Covid-19 cases, release of anonymised data on the clinical outcomes of hospitalised patients, and data on the immune response to vaccination in Indian population.“The ICMR database is inaccessible to anyone outside of the government and perhaps also to many within the government. Most scientists – including several identified by DST and NITI Aayog to develop new prediction models for India – do not have access to this data. Public health measures in India should necessarily vary from one local area to another, because there is a great geographical variability in patterns of spread of the infection due to local conditions,” the petition read.Data that is available to researchers are often scattered and available in different formats, thus preventing them from drawing meaningful conclusions. “As a computational biologist, the data I have been working with mainly involve the new case numbers and outcomes (recovery/death) over the course of the first and second wave. At the moment, the datasets are fragmented across different states and local authorities,” said Dr Thattai. He cites the example of Bengaluru where he depends on data from the government of Karnataka and Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP). The data that they put out are in different formats and are presented as an aggregate.“They will give the total number of positive cases in a given day, or the total number of tests that are positive, or the fraction of cases that are under-60s, and so on. But these aggregate statistics, while useful for seeing trends, do not permit further detailed analysis. Suppose I want to know whether the fatality rate for over-60s is lower in the second wave than the first (as we might expect, if the vaccination campaign has been effective). We cannot obtain these data from the aggregate statistics. We will need to wait for the MoHFW itself to test this question,” he said. He said, the granular data – anonymised age, gender, district, date of positive test, date of hospitalisation, date of recovery or death, vaccination status, previous infection status if any – should be made available to all scientists. “From these granular raw data we can extract meaningful information. The ICMR which has been tasked with collecting this data nationwide, should have the most comprehensive dataset. We are asking for this dataset to be made available for other researchers to also use,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govts-top-scientific-advisor-responds-to-online-petition-for-covid-datasets-101619845491697.html
01-05-2021||India||Pained by loss of lives in Bharuch hospital fire incident: PM Modi||New Delhi [India], May 1 (ANI): After 16 people lost their lives in a tragic fire incident at the Patel Welfare COVID Hospital in Gujarat's Bharuch, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday condoled the deaths.The Prime Minister in a tweet said, "Pained by the loss of lives due to a fire at a hospital in Bharuch. Condolences to the bereaved families."14 patients and two staff nurses lost their lives in the fire that broke out at the Bharuch hospital on the intervening night of Friday-Saturday.Zuber Patel, the trustee of the hospital, told ANI: "It's an unfortunate incident not only for us but for entire Bharuch. With police and administration's help, we could shift patients to other hospitals. 14 patients and two staff nurses lost their lives in the incident."Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani has announced to provide financial assistance of ₹4 lakh to the families of each of the deceased."I express my condolences to the patients, doctors and hospital staff who lost their lives in the fire accident at Bharuch Hospital. The state government will provide assistance of ₹4 lakh to the families of each of the victims of the accident," tweeted Rupani.The Chief Minister has also directed two senior IAS officers of the state, Additional Chief Secretary for Labour and Employment Vipul Mitra and Commissioner Municipalities Rajkumar Beniwal, to immediately reach Bharuch and investigate the incident. He has also said that the state government is also taking action to hand over a judicial inquiry into the tragedy.According to Rajendrasinh Chudasama, Superintendent of Police, Bharuch, fire broke out in the ICU due to short circuit. After the fire incident, patients were shifted to another hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pained-by-loss-of-lives-in-bharuch-hospital-fire-incident-pm-modi-101619845263953.html
01-05-2021||India||PM visits Sis Ganj Gurudwara on 400th Prakash Purab, Rahul Gandhi greets Sikhs||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday offered prayers at Gurudwara Sis Ganj Sahib in Delhi on 400th Prakash Purab of Guru Teg Bahadur. An official of the PM’s office said no special security arrangements were made either on his route or at the Gurudwara.“Prayed at Gurudwara Sis Ganj Sahib today. We can never forget the life, ideals and supreme sacrifice of Sri Teg Bahadur Ji,” PM tweeted, and shared photographs of him praying at the Gurudwara.The visit comes at a time when the gurudwaras were holding oxygen ‘langars’ to help deal with the shortage of the life-saving gas for Covid patients in hospitals across the country.Earlier in the morning, PM offered his tributes to the ninth Guru of Sikhism and said, “On the special occasion of his 400th Parkash Purab, I bow to Sri Guru Teg Bahadur Ji. He is widely respected globally for his courage and his efforts to serve the downtrodden. He refused to bow to tyranny and injustice. His supreme sacrifice gives strength and motivation to many.”Meanwhile, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi also paid tributes to the ninth Sikh Guru and extended his wishes to the community on the festival.“Best wishes to all of you on the light festival of Guru Teg Bahadur Sahib. In this difficult time, we have to support each other with the strength of faith and brotherhood,” Rahul wrote on his telegram channel while adding that people should follow Covid appropriate behaviour.On April 8, PM Modi chaired a high-level virtual meeting to discuss the year long calendar of celebrations to mark this occasion. He then said it was important for the new generation to know and understand the stages of his (Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur) life.“From Guru Nanak Dev to Guru Tegh Bahadur and Guru Gobind Singh - our Sikh Guru tradition is a philosophy of life in itself,” PM had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-visits-sis-ganj-gurudwara-on-400th-prakash-purab-rahul-gandhi-greets-sikhs-101619844591942.html
01-05-2021||India||Oxygen, vaccine and Remdesivir is MEA mantra in national crisis||External affairs minister S Jaishankar is expected to call up his Singapore and Thailand counterparts on Saturday to personally thank them for supporting India’s fight against raging coronavirus pandemic even as he has instructed all Indian ambassadors to focus on procuring medical supplies for the national crisis.According to people familiar with the development, Jaishankar will have a virtual meeting with Singapore foreign minister Vivian Balakrishnan to appreciate the help extended by the city state by acting as a logistics hub for medical supplies to India. The Modi government has also noted with appreciation the role played by Thailand as supplier of oxygen tankers to India in times of crisis.Even before having virtual meetings with US secretary of state Antony Blinken and Chinese state councillor and foreign minister Wang Yi, Jaishankar on Thursday told all the heads of missions of India that their aim is to get oxygen, vaccine and Remdesivir for India. While the EAM made it clear that as India’s Vaccine Maitri has generated enormous goodwill for the country, it is time that all hands were on the deck to get medical support. Also read | India stresses on boosting oxygen supplies in talks with USJaishankar’s virtual meeting with Blinken was very fruitful as the US secretary of state said that the United States was committed to fully support India in its fight against the resurgent epidemic. During his conversation with Wang Yi, Jaishankar requested China, which is the world’s biggest manufacturer, to lift non market barriers and allow goods flow to India as well as give clearance to evacuate equipment through special flights to China. The Chinese response is still awaited in writing.Also read | Jaishankar emphasises importance of China’s transport corridors in India’s Covid-19 responseWhile many have interpreted the Chinese overture, including President Xi Jinping writing to PM Narendra Modi, as thaw in the ties, fact is that Beijing is worried about the spread of the UK strain, double mutant and South Africa strain of coronavirus crossing over to Chinese mainland through land borders. For a genuine thaw, China will have to match its statements with action on ground all along the Line of Actual Control (LAC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oxygen-vaccine-and-remdesivir-is-mea-mantra-in-national-crisis-101619843942463.html
01-05-2021||India||May Day 2021: Know history and significance of Labour Day||May 1 is the International Day of Workers or International Labour Day dedicated to workers and labourers across the world. This day celebrates labourers and encourages them to be aware of their rights. The day has its origins in the labour union movement, specifically the eight-hour day movement. Popularly known as May Day, the day is observed in countries such as India, Cuba and China among other countries.On this day, people across the world observe the day by conducting protest and march for the rights of workers and save them from exploitation. International Labour Day is a public holiday in many countries.Know about the history and significance of May Day:Labour Day has its origins in the labour union movement in the United States in the 19th Century. In 1889, the Marxist International Socialist Congress adopted a resolution for a great international demonstration in which they demanded that the workers should not be made to work for more than 8 hours a day. After this, it became an annual event and May 1 was celebrated as Labour Day.May Day was first celebrated on May 1, 1890, after it was declared by the first International Congress of Socialist Parties in Europe on July 14, 1889. It was declared for the workers in Paris to dedicate every year on May 1 as the 'Workers Day of International Unity and Solidarity'. May 1 in Europe has historically been linked with rural traditional farmers' festivals but later May Day became associated with the modern labour movement.In India, Labour’s Day is a national holiday. The first Labour’s Day was celebrated in 1923 in Chennai. This day was observed by the Labour Kisan Party of Hindustan. On this day, communist leader Malayapuram Singaravelu Chettiar asked the government that May 1 should be considered as a national holiday to symbolise the efforts and work of the workers. This day is also known as Kamgar Divas, Kamgar Din and Antrarashtriya Shramik Divas in India.In the US and Canada, Labour Day is celebrated on the first Monday of September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/may-day-2021-know-history-and-significance-of-labour-day-101619837183763.html
01-05-2021||India||US to remain in communication with India on its Covid-19 needs: White House||The US will continue to maintain communication with India about its needs to address the Covid-19 crisis, the White House has said, as critical American aid supplies started arriving in the country.Two American military aircraft on Friday brought to India large amounts of emergency medical supplies as part of the Biden administration's support to the country's fight against a devastating wave of the coronavirus pandemic.The first consignment of the supplies was brought to Delhi in a C-5M Super Galaxy, one of the largest strategic airlift aircraft of the US Air Force, while the second shipment was delivered by a C-17 Globemaster.“We will continue to communicate with India about their needs,” White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki told reporters on Friday.The first military assistance flight that departed from Travis Air Force Base had cargo including 200 small oxygen cylinders, 223 large oxygen cylinders, regulators and pulse oximeters, she said.It also included approximately 184,000 rapid diagnostic tests and 84,000 N-95s masks.Psaki said that the Secretary of State Antony Blinken called his Indian counterpart External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar to review ongoing US government efforts in support of the Indian government's response.“He also noted the outpouring of support from US industries, our ongoing discussions, non-governmental institutions, and private citizens,” Psaki said.In all, the United States expects to deliver more than USD 100 million in medical supplies to India.The Pentagon said in the coming week, more oxygen cylinders will be sent, as will oxygen concentrators, oxygen generation units, additional personnel protective equipment, rapid diagnostic tests and therapeutics.“The US is also providing vaccine manufacturing supplies. In fact, the US has redirected its order of AstraZeneca manufacturing supplies to India, which will enable the country to make more than 20 million doses of the COVID-19 vaccine,” said the Department of Defence.Meanwhile, top American Senator Elizabeth Warren in a letter to President Joe Biden urged him to leverage all tools and resources available to the United States to provide relief to India.“In light of this growing humanitarian crisis, I urge you to leverage all tools and resources available to the United States to provide relief to India,” Warren said in a letter to Biden.“While I am pleased by your commitment to providing transportation and logistics assistance as well as doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine to India, there is a critical need for more to be done,” the top Democrat said.She also encouraged Biden to divert any excess supply of ventilators, PPE, oxygen, diagnostic equipment, as well as vaccines to India to help treat those in need and mitigate the spread of the virus.“India is in the midst of a humanitarian crisis that threatens its 1.4 billion citizens, and billions more around the world. I urge you to leverage all resources and explore all tools available to the United States to alleviate this crisis,” Warren said.India is struggling with a second wave of the pandemic with more than 3,00,000 daily new coronavirus cases being reported in the past few days, and hospitals are reeling under a shortage of medical oxygen and beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-to-remain-in-communication-with-india-on-its-covid-19-needs-white-house-101619842293669.html
01-05-2021||India||Odisha to begin ‘token’ Covid vaccination of 18-44 years age group from May 1||The third phase of Covid-19 vaccination drive will begin in Odisha on Saturday with a few in the age bracket of 18-45 years receiving their first shot in Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation area after the state received 1.5 lakh doses of indigenously developed Covaxin.Additional chief secretary of health, PK Mohapatra, said on May1, a few token beneficiaries will receive the vaccine in a symbolic expansion of the drive amid a weekend lockdown in the state’s urban areas in view of the surging Covid cases.“The vaccine will be used in Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation limits for which slots will be opened on COWIN for sessions to be held from Monday,” he said.Mohapatra said Odisha has placed orders with Bharat Biotech to deliver at least 5 lakh doses of Covaxin by May 31 and the rest 5.3 lakh doses by June 15. “We have also asked the Serum Institute to give us 40 lakh doses in May followed by 60 lakh each in June, July and August. We will start the Covishield vaccination as and when we receive the doses,” said Mohapatra. Odisha is administering Covishield jabs all across the state except Bhubaneswar.Odisha health minister Naba Das wrote to Union health minister Dr Harsha Vardhan on Friday requesting the Centre to allot 25 lakh doses of Covishield vaccine in a single go to enable continuity in vaccination of people aged 45 years & above. On Friday, the state administered 81,161 doses to the age group of 45 years and above and was left with just 46,220 doses of Covishield and 3.21 lakh doses of Covaxin.“Between April 20 and 29, Odisha has received only 2.9 lakh doses of Covishield in three allocations, which is insufficient for unhindered continuation of the vaccination drive. The vaccination sessions could not be conducted in more than 1,100 session sites daily in the recent past and our daily dosage delivery has drastically declined from 2.71 lakh on April 3 to 27,000 on April 29,” Das wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-to-begin-token-covid-vaccination-of-18-44-years-age-group-from-may-1-101619842731515.html
01-05-2021||India||Assam extends night curfew and other restrictions till May||The Assam government on Friday extended night curfew and most other existing guidelines/restrictions to control the spread of Covid-19 till May 7. The new set of guidelines was issued by the Assam State Disaster Management Authority and will come into effect immediately.Last Tuesday, night curfew was ordered across the state from 8:00 pm to 5:00 am after shops and businesses were told earlier to down shutters at 6:00 pm. These restrictions will continue till May 7.Officers of government departments and those involved in emergency services, public transport, disaster management etc. have been exempted from the curfew provided they are able to show their valid identity documents on request.Judicial officials, medical personnel, journalists, pregnant women and patients, diplomats of foreign countries, persons holding constitutional posts will also be exempted from the purview of the curfew.Movement of personnel related to food products, animal fodder, medicines, medical equipment, banks, insurance offices, telecommunications, internet, IT services, petrol pumps, LPG units, electricity generation and supply, cold storage and warehousing, private security agencies, manufacturing units of essential commodities and units that require continuous production are also exempted.The curfew will also not be applicable for those stepping out for Covid-19 vaccination.The new measures also empower the district magistrate to declare an area/city or district a containment zone in case Covid-19 positivity rate crosses 10% in one week and bed occupancy of either oxygen supported or intensive care unit (ICU) beds cross 60%.Assam has been recording around 3,000 new Covid-19 cases daily for the past few days. On Thursday, the state recorded 26 deaths and 3,079 new cases. The state has over 23,000 active cases at present.As per the new guidelines, functions held in the open, marriage halls, commercial centres etc. will be allowed to operate at 50% occupancy with strict adherence to Covid-19 protocols. Number of guests in private functions at private venues (including marriage) should be restricted to 100, not more than 20 persons allowed for last rites and only 20 to 50 persons allowed per hour at religious places depending on the size of the place.In offices, except officers, only 50% of employees are allowed in government and private offices.The guidelines won’t be applicable for those involved with emergency/essential services, law enforcement and election work. Pregnant women and women with children below 5 years of age shall work from home.Educational institutions, both government and private, have been asked to provide online teaching and only 50% students will be allowed to attend classes in person on any day.Buses should operate with only 50% passenger strength and no passenger will be allowed to travel standing. Barber shops, salons and beauty parlours have been allowed to operate while observing Covid-19 safety measures. Industrial units and tea gardens can also function by following protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-extends-night-curfew-and-other-restrictions-till-may-101619841591893.html
01-05-2021||India||India reports over 400,000 fresh Covid-19 cases for the first time, total infection tally breaches 19 million-mark||India on Saturday reported more than 400,000 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, for the first time since the pandemic began, as the infection tally crossed the 19 million mark, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare. With 401,993 fresh cases, India’s Covid-19 tally has risen to 19,164,969.The active caseload, which crossed the three-million-mark on Thursday, also surged by 98,482 and currently stands at 3,268,710. This accounts for 17.06% of the total confirmed cases in the country.According to the health ministry, 3,523 patients succumbed to the viral disease in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll to 211,853. As many as 299,988 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours and so far 15,684,406 people have recovered from the viral disease, the health ministry’s dashboard showed at 8am. With this, the country’s recovery rate stands at 81.84%, the data also showed.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Saturday said that 28,83,37,385 samples were tested up to April 30 for Covid-19. Of these, 19,45,299 samples were tested on Friday.The Union health ministry has red-flagged 10 states for contributing the highest number of infections to the national tally of active Covid-19 cases. The states include Maharashtra, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Kerala, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Chhattisgarh, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal.Maharashtra continues to remain the worst affected state in terms of the total confirmed cases and active caseload. Maharashtra on Friday reported 62,919 fresh Covid-19 cases and 828 deaths, said the state health department.The Centre on Friday expressed concern that many states are not only recording a higher peak of coronavirus disease cases than in September last year but also seeing a high growth trajectory. Joint secretary in the health ministry Lav Agarwal said the country witnessed its first peak in September and is witnessing another peak in April. Some countries have also witnessed the third wave of Covid-19, he said.India has been recording over 300,000 cases every day for over a week now. More than 200,000 cases a day are being recorded since April 15. The shortage of hospital beds, medical oxygen and crucial anti-viral drugs has added to the crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-over-400-000-fresh-covid-19-cases-for-the-first-time-total-infection-tally-breaches-19-millionmark-101619840443630.html
01-05-2021||India||Nirav Modi files appeal in UK high court against his extradition to India||Fugitive businessman Nirav Modi filed his initial grounds for appeal against his extradition to India in the UK high court of justice on Wednesday, people familiar with the development said on Saturday. Nirav Modi’s appeal is both against the Westminster magistrate court’s order on February 25 directing his extradition to India and April 15 approval by UK home secretary Priti Patel. Patel approved Modi’s extradition almost two months after a court found him guilty of fraud and money laundering in the Punjab National Bank scam case.According to his legal team, the perfected grounds of appeal are being prepared and will be filed soon and there are initial grounds of appeal.Nirav Modi’s original defence is that he won’t get a fair trial in India and he is being targeted due to political reasons. He has also cited the poor conditions of jails in India and said that the evidence against him is weak.Also read | Mallya, Nirav Modi & Mehul Choksi all coming back to face law: FMWestminster district judge Sam Goozee, while ordering his extradition on February 25, said Modi has a case to answer in India as he, along with his brother Nehal Modi and others, had defrauded the public sector bank, laundered the money taken from it and conspired to destroy evidence and intimidate witnesses. Goozee observed that the circulation of pearls, diamonds and gold between Nirav Modi’s firms and Dubai- and Hong Kong-based dummy companies was not genuine business and the companies were being used for transferring funds generated in the guise of sale-purchase/export-import of goods colloquially referred to as round-tripping transactions.Nirav Modi’s contention that he won’t get a fair trial in India and that he was being targeted due to political reasons was junked by the court.Also read | Nirav Modi’s extradition: CBI, ED submitted over 40,000 docs to prove conspiracyNirav Modi has been lodged in Wandsworth prison on the outskirts of London since March 19, 2019, when he was arrested on the basis of India’s extradition request.After former liquor baron Vijay Mallya, whose extradition has been cleared by a trial court in the United Kingdom, Nirav Modi is the second high-profile economic offender. Mallya lost his appeal against extradition in April 2020 as well as any opportunity to approach the UK Supreme Court the next month but the British government has claimed that his extradition is held up due to a “confidential legal issue”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nirav-modi-files-appeal-in-uk-high-court-against-his-extradition-to-india-101619840268093.html
01-05-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Sputnik-V shipments expected to arrive in India today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Sputnik-V shipments expected to arrive today as India plans a comebackIndia is set to receive its first doses of Sputnik-V, the Russian-made vaccine against the coronavirus disease, on Saturday as Covid-19 cases and deaths have surged in the country and more than 300,000 new infections have been reported daily for nine days in a row. Read moreGovt explores possibility of producing Covaxin abroadCentre is exploring the possibility of offering the locally developed coronavirus vaccine, Covaxin that has been jointly developed by Bharat Biotech and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), for production abroad through a technology transfer between commercial entities amid supply crunch, according to government officials aware of the development. Read moreHappy birthday Anushka Sharma: When she thought Virat Kohli was 'arrogant' but ended up inviting him to her homeAnushka Sharma may be an actor herself but her meet-cute with husband Virat Kohli is a story fit for a Bollywood rom-com. On her 33rd birthday on Saturday, we are bringing you the story of how she met her cricketer husband and fell for his 'easygoing' vibe. Read moreThe Disciple movie review: A demanding drama from master-in-the-making Chaitanya TamhaneThe music in The Disciple brings to mind that scene from La La Land, in which Ryan Gosling’s Seb, a lifelong devotee, explains jazz to Emma Stone’s Mia, who thinks of it as elevator music. “It’s not relaxing,” Seb says, on the verge of losing it. Read more'When KKR are playing, it will get boring for me, so I have to watch it while fast-forwarding it': Virender SehwagKolkata Knight Riders once again got off to a slow start against Delhi Capitals in the Indian Premier League 2021 match on Thursday. Read moreWatch: Navy deploys warship to import oxygen from Singapore, Bahrain, ThailandIndian Navy deployed warships to bring oxygen from other countries. Special operation was launched to bring oxygen filled cryogenic containers. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-am-sputnik-v-shipments-expected-to-arrive-in-india-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101619835865930.html
01-05-2021||India||Gujarat CM announces ₹4 lakh ex gratia to Bharuch fire victims’ kins||Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani on Saturday announced financial assistance of  ₹4 lakh for the families of 18 people, who were killed in a fire at a Covid-19 designated hospital in the state’s Bharuch. Rupani also extended his condolences to the patients, doctors and the hospital staff who lost their lives in the fire.“I express my condolences towards the patients, doctors and hospital staff who have lost their lives in the fire accident at Bharuch Hospital. The state government will provide assistance of  ₹4 lakh to the families of each of the victims of the accident,” Rupani said, according to news agency ANI.Prime Minister Narendra Modi also expressed his condolences to the families of the victims of the accident in Bharuch. "Pained by the loss of lives due to a fire at a hospital in Bharuch. Condolences to the bereaved families," Prime Minister Modi tweeted.The fire broke out at the four-storied Welfare Hospital in Bharuch early on Saturday. Fifty other patients were rescued by local residents and firefighters from the Covid-19 ward.The intensity of the fire was such that the hospital's ICU ward almost burnt to the ground. The equipment that was stored inside, which included beds, ventilators and fridge for storing medicines, turned to ashes, according to a report by news agency PTI. Patients were charred beyond recognition and their relatives found it difficult to identify their bodies."As per information received at 6.30am, the death toll due to the tragedy stood at 18. We had confirmation of 12 deaths immediately after the fire," a police official was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-cm-rupani-announces-rs-4-lakh-assistance-for-bharuch-victims-101619838914325.html
01-05-2021||India||PM Modi visits Gurdwara Sis Ganj Sahib in Delhi on 400th Prakash Parab of Guru Teg Bahadur||Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited the 17th-century Gurdwara Sis Ganj Sahib to offer prayers on the occasion of 400th Prakash Parab or the birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur on Saturday. Modi visited the gurdwara without a security route and special security arrangements, the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said.PM Modi also extended his greetings to the citizens on Twitter. “On the special occasion of his 400th Parkash Purab, I bow to Sri Guru Teg Bahadur Ji. He is widely respected globally for his courage and his efforts to serve the downtrodden. He refused to bow to tyranny and injustice. His supreme sacrifice gives strength and motivation to many,” he wrote on the microblogging site.Gurdwara Sis Ganj Sahib was built by Sikhs at the site where the ninth guru was beheaded by the Mughals in 1675.Prayed at Gurudwara Sis Ganj Sahib today. We can never forget the life, ideals and supreme sacrifice of Sri Guru Teg Bahadur Ji. pic.twitter.com/62teTxLJspEarlier this month, the Prime Minister held a high-level meeting to commemorate the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur, where he suggested that it is important for the new generation of the nation to know and understand the stages of the Sikh guru’s life.He pledged that India would pay a fitting tribute to Guru Tegh Bahadur on his 400th Parkash Purab, however, as the nation battles with the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic most celebrations have been called off. The meeting was attended Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, former prime minister Manmohan Singh and Union home minister Amit Shah.As most events stand cancelled, the Punjab government has decided to engage students in productive activities as schools are closed due to Covid-19 surge. Punjab’s education department will hold online educational competitions from May 1 to commemorate the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur. Students will participate in competitions including essay writing, poem recitation, slogan writing, and debates. They will make videos of the activity and share them on the class WhatsApp groups. Similar activities were organised online last year in which over 40,000 students participated. The topics of the competitions will be based on the life, teachings, and achievements of the guru.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-visits-gurdwara-sis-ganj-sahib-in-delhi-on-400th-prakash-parab-of-guru-teg-bahadur-101619837925141.html
01-05-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccine makers say won’t be able to supply doses till June: Bengal doctor||A doctor at a hospital in West Bengal has claimed manufacturers of Covid-19 vaccine have said they won’t be able to supply the shots till June as the state government and private hospitals look to kick off the third phase of the vaccination drive scheduled to begin from Saturday across the country, news agency ANI reported.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here“This time vaccine supply will not be (given) by the government but we have been asked to write to manufacturers directly and we have written to Bharat Biotech and SII for vaccines,” Dr Rupali Basu, the managing director and chief executive officer of Kolkata’s Woodlands Hospital, told news agency ANI on Friday. She added, “They (vaccine manufacturers) have written to us that they won’t be able to supply us vaccines till June, so we still don’t have the vaccines with us. We’re ready with vaccination centres but the moment the vaccines come to us we’ll able to vaccinate.”The doctor’s statement came a day ahead of the nationwide launch of Phase 3 Covid-19 vaccination. However, West Bengal is not the only state that is not launching the campaign yet, several states and Union territories including Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, and Delhi, have said they will start vaccinating citizens above the age of 18 years at a later date as they don’t have enough stock and are waiting for vaccine manufacturers to provide them with a substantial number of vials to inoculate the citizens in the large age group of 18 to 44 years.Basu said May 1 is a holiday in West Bengal and the following day is the result day for assembly elections held earlier in March and April while May 3 and 4 are also not vaccination days. “... Our vaccination starts on May 5, so I have four more days. I hope that I will be starting vaccination drive for the 18-44 age group May 5 onwards," she told ANI on Friday.The vaccination drive in Bengal comes at a crucial time as the state is registering grim records almost every day for the past few days. The eastern state registered the highest single-day Covid-19 deaths with 96 people succumbing to the disease, the health department said in a bulletin on Friday, as its infection tally mounted to 828,366 with a record one-day spike of 17,411 new cases.Experts have attributed the tremendous spike in Covid-19 cases to mass gatherings that took place in the state as political parties held election campaign rallies and roadshows despite the emergence of the second wave of the pandemic that has taken the country’s death toll beyond 208,000 amid stretched health infrastructure.The central government’s decision to vaccinate all adults also came as the second wave wrecked havoc across states. At present, India has been reporting over 300,000 cases daily for over a week.Registration for the people aged above 18 years began from 4pm on Wednesday. Potential beneficiaries can either register directly on CoWIN portal (cowin.gov.in) or through the Aarogya Setu app.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccine-makers-say-won-t-be-able-to-supply-doses-till-june-bengal-doctor-101619837012091.html
01-05-2021||India||These states won’t start Phase 3 Covid-19 vaccination drive from today||Several state governments have said they won't be able to start the Phase 3 vaccination drive from Saturday because they do not have sufficient vaccine doses. This phase of vaccination drive is for people between the age group of 18-45 years.The Union health ministry on Thursday said more than 10 million vaccine doses are still available with states and they will receive 2 million more doses in the next few days. The ministry further said that the Centre has so far provided nearly 161.6 million vaccine doses to states and UTs free of cost.States like Maharashtra and Gujarat have announced to begin the vaccination drive from Saturday. Gujarat will have undertake the drive in 10 districts.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has said that the state has 0.3 million doses but will begin the vaccination for 18+ from Saturday. "Today we have received 0.3 million vaccine doses. From tomorrow, we will start vaccination for adults above the age of 18 years with whatever vaccine supply that is made available to us," he added.Here's a list of states that are not going for Phase 3 Covid-19 vaccination drive from Saturday:Delhi: Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday asked the people between the age group of 18 and 44 not to queue up outside Covid-19 vaccination centres from May 1, adding the national capital hasn’t yet received doses. He said around 0.3 million doses of Covishield are expected by May 3.Kejriwal said his government has placed orders for 6.7 million doses each of Covishield and Covaxin which will be delivered over three months. “We aim to vaccinate everyone in the next three months if a sufficient quantity of vaccines is supplied by the companies,” he added.Karnataka: Karnataka health minister K Sudhakar has said the state has no vaccine stock to start the drive on Saturday. "Karnataka has placed an order for more than 10 million doses. But they are not prepared to start delivery from tomorrow as scheduled. We are requesting people in the age group of 18-45 years to refrain from going to hospitals thinking they will be vaccinated," he said.Goa: Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant has said the state will start inoculation of those in the age group of 18-45 years against Covid-19 "as and when" vaccine doses are available. He said the Goa government has placed an order of 0.5 milli doses with the Serum Institute of India for the Covishield vaccine. "Vaccination for the 18-45 age group will progress as and when we receive the doses," Sawant added.Madhya Pradesh: Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has said that the vaccination drive for people in the age group of 18-45 years will not start on May 1 as the vaccine manufacturers aren't in a position to supply enough vaccine doses to the state."On contacting the manufacturers of Covishield and Covaxin, we learnt they are unable to give us doses for those above 18 years of age on May 1. The drive covering the young people won't start on May 1," Chouhan said.West Bengal: The West Bengal government has said that the vaccination drive for those between 18 to 45 years of age will begin as and when the state receives the vaccine doses. "Vaccination of those above 45 years will continue," the state government said in an order.Punjab: Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu has said the vaccination drive for the 18 plus category in the state may get delayed as there are not enough doses of Covid-19 vaccine. "We are not getting adequate doses of vaccines. That is why we are facing problems. We have staff and required infrastructure for vaccination,” Sidhu said.Andhra Pradesh: Andhra Pradesh chief minister Jagan Mohan Reddy has said that those between the ages of 18 and 45 will have to wait until September to get a shot. “It will take four months to complete the vaccination for people aged 18 to 45, which means they will be vaccinated not before January end next year,” Jagan said in a statement.Jharkhand: Jharkhand health minister Banna Gupta has said that the state will not begin inoculating people between the age group of 18-45 years on May 1, owing to the delay in getting doses from manufacturers.“Both the companies told us that the Centre has placed advanced orders for 120 million doses already. Due to the sheer volume of the Centre’s orders, they will not be able to supply us the doses before May 15,” he said.Uttar Pradesh: Uttar Pradesh’s health minister Jai Prata Singh has said the state does not have any stocks of vaccine doses available. He said, “Global tender has been issued for the vaccine but there is no response yet. Orders of 5 million doses have been made to each of the two vaccine manufacturers, but we have not received anything yet. The current stock of vaccines is only available for the 45+ group, which is for the second dose," he added.Jammu and Kashmir: The Jammu and Kashmir administration has said the third phase of the inoculation drive will not begin from May 1 in the Union Territory. “While the registration for vaccination of eligible persons in the age group 18-45 has been opened on CoWIN platform, the actual vaccination will not begin from May 1. It will begin from a date to be announced later once the vaccine supply is established," the Department of Information and Public Relations said on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/these-states-won-t-start-phase-3-covid-19-vaccination-drive-from-todayseveral-st-101619831661831.html
01-05-2021||India||PM Modi extends greetings on 400th Parkash Purab||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday extended greetings to the nation on the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Teg Bahadur, saying his sacrifice gives "strength and motivation" to many."On the special occasion of his 400th Parkash Purab, I bow to Sri Guru Teg Bahadur Ji. He is widely respected globally for his courage and his efforts to serve the downtrodden. He refused to bow to tyranny and injustice. His supreme sacrifice gives strength and motivation to many," the Prime Minister tweeted.Guru Tegh Bahadur was the ninth Guru (April 1, 1621-November 11, 1675) of the Sikh religion.Prime Minister Modi had on April 8 said that the occasion of the 400th Prakash Purab of Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur Ji is a spiritual privilege as well as a national duty.He had made this statement during a high-level meeting with former Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh, Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman Harivansh and Leader of Opposition, Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge and others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-extends-greetings-on-400th-parkash-purab-101619835274903.html
01-05-2021||India||Sputnik-V shipments expected to arrive today as India plans a comeback||India is set to receive its first doses of Sputnik-V, the Russian-made vaccine against the coronavirus disease, on Saturday as Covid-19 cases and deaths have surged in the country and more than 300,000 new infections have been reported daily for nine days in a row. Kirill Dmitriev, the head of the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) which is marketing Sputnik V globally, said earlier this week that the first doses of the vaccine will arrive on Saturday.“The first doses will be delivered on May 1,” Dmitriev was quoted as saying by news agency Reuters. However, he did not say how many vaccines would be in the first batch or where they would be made. He hoped that the Russian-made vaccine would help India mitigate the crisis spurred by the second wave of Covid-19.The consignment of the Sputnik-V, which was approved by an expert panel earlier this month, will bolster India’s response to the pandemic as several states have raised the issue of vaccine shortage which has forced them to make alterations to their vaccination plans. Sputnik-V will soon join India’s vaccination program and it is expected that this will help the country make a comeback in its fight against the pandemic. India on Saturday began vaccinating people aged above 18 years in phase III of its vaccination drive.The RDIF has signed agreements with five leading domestic manufacturers for over 850 million doses earlier this year. It has also set the target of producing more than 50 million doses a month by the summer in India. Earlier this week, Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to Russian president Vladimir Putin and discussed how Sputnik-V was an effective tool in fighting Covid-19.Turkey, Chile and Albania were the latest to join 60 other countries who have approved Sputnik-V. Several experts say that the Sputnik-V vaccine, which was met with scepticism following its launch, is a ‘scientific and political win’ for Putin and Russia. The Gamaleya Research Centre, makers of Sputnik-V, have often claimed that the vaccine is the world’s best Covid-19 vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sputnikv-shipments-expected-to-arrive-today-as-india-plans-a-comeback-101619834147540.html
01-05-2021||India||Phase 3 Covid-19 vaccination for all adults from today? Several states delay drive||The third phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive for all adults in the country begins Saturday as announced by the Centre earlier this month. Several states, however, have told their citizens to not line up outside vaccination centres as yet as they have not received enough stock of the vaccines from manufacturers to kick off this phase of the immunisation drive.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 hereLav Agarwal, the joint secretary in the Union ministry of health and family welfare, on Friday assured people that the Covid-19 immunisation campaign will soon be operational across all regions of the country. “Vaccination will be launched tomorrow in some states, which have already coordinated with manufacturers. Any new exercises or process takes time to pick up the pace and gradually more centres will be increased. The programme will stabilise in some time," Agarwal said, according to news agency PTI.The official’s statement is in line with the decisions of several states and Union territories, including Delhi, Odisha, Uttarakhand, West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, and Punjab, which have said they do not have adequate doses of vaccine to start vaccinating individuals in the 18-44 age group and will launch the drive at a later date this month.Some states have announced Phase 3 of the Covid-19 inoculation drive in selected districts, while some announced vaccination for different age groups also such as those above 35 years.On Friday, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal told people that his government is in touch with the vaccine manufacturers and assured them that the doses will arrive in the city in a day or two following which the campaign will be launched. Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani also made a statement earlier in the week and asserted that the vaccination in the third phase will begin across the state latest by May 15.Maharashtra government earlier said that it won’t begin the campaign until it receives a substantial number of Covid-19 vaccine vials to inoculate a large number of people eligible in this phase. However, on Friday night, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) announced five centres in the state’s Mumbai city where vaccination for the age group 18-44 years will begin on Saturday.People will have to pay for the vaccine doses in this phase but they will be available free of cost at central government hospitals. Manufacturers have been allowed to sell 50% of their doses to the Centre, which will be administered to people for free, and the state governments and private hospitals can procure the remaining at the pre-determined price. Serum Institute of India has priced its vaccine Covishield at ₹300 per dose for state governments and ₹600 for private hospitals and the other manufacturer Bharat Biotech will sell its shot Covaxin to state governments for ₹400 per dose, ₹1,200 per dose for private hospitals, and for the international market, the vaccine will be sold for $15-20 per dose.Registrations for Phase 3 of the Covid-19 vaccination began on Wednesday evening and the immediate rush at 4pm, when the registrations opened, led the CoWin portal server to be down for a while.From May 1, the types of anti-coronavirus disease vaccines and their prices will be displayed on the CoWIN portal for the citizens to make an informed choice at the time of booking an appointment at a private vaccination centre, according to the Liberalised Pricing and Accelerated National Covid-19 Vaccination Strategy document cited by PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/phase-3-covid-19-vaccination-for-all-adults-from-today-several-states-delay-drive-101619832404089.html
01-05-2021||India||Serum Institute CEO plans to start Covid-19 vaccine production abroad: Report||The Serum Institute of India, which manufactures the AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine, is planning to start vaccine production in other countries as it struggles to meet supply commitments, its chief executive officer told The Times."There's going to be an announcement in the next few days," Adar Poonawalla was quoted as saying by the newspaper in an interview published on Friday.Poonawalla said last week that the Serum Institute would be able to raise its monthly output to 100 million doses by July, later than a previous timeline of end-May. Several states in India have run out of vaccines against COVID-19.He hoped to increase the Serum Institute's production capacity from 2.5 billion to 3 billion doses a year within six months, the Times reported, adding that he flew to London before Britain banned travellers from India eight days ago.Coronavirus cases and deaths have surged in India as the world's second-most populous country has reported more than 300,000 new infections daily for nine consecutive days, hitting another global record of 386,452 on Friday.The surge has led to a public health crisis and forced the government to seek oxygen, medicines and other essentials from abroad.The nation's coronavirus cases may peak between May 3-5, according to scientists advising the government.Some health experts said India became complacent when new cases were running at about 10,000 a day and the novel coronavirus seemed to be under control. Authorities lifted restrictions, allowing the resumption of large festivals and political rallies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/serum-institute-ceo-plans-to-start-covid-19-vaccine-production-abroad-report-101619827712296.html
01-05-2021||India||At least 18 Covid-19 patients die in hospital fire in Gujarat’s Bharuch: Report||At least 18 coronavirus patients died after a fire broke out at a hospital in Gujarat's Bharuch in the early hours on Saturday.Gut-wrenching visuals of the tragedy showed remains of some patients roasted alive on stretchers and beds.There were around 50 other patients at the four- storeyed Welfare Hospital when the fire broke out in the Covid-19 ward at 1 am. They were rescued by locals and firefighters, an official said."As per information at 6.30 am, the death toll in the tragedy stood at 18. Immediately after the fire, we had confirmation of 12 deaths," a police official told PTI.The 12 patients in the Covid-19 ward died due to the fire and resultant smoke, Bharuch SP Rajendrasinh Chudasama said.It is not clear if the remaining six also died in the Welfare hospital or while being shifted to other hospitals.The Covid-19 designated hospital is situated on the Bharuch-Jambusar highway, around 190 km from the state capital Ahmedabad and is being run by a trust.The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained, the official said.The fire was controlled within an hour and around 50 patients were rescued by locals as well as firefighters, a fire official said. They were shifted to nearby hospitals, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-at-least-12-covid-19-patients-killed-in-fire-at-bharuch-hospital-101619825472835.html
01-05-2021||India||India's new Covid-19 cases cross 400k||India’s record-breaking second wave of Covid-19 infections pushed daily cases in the country soaring past the 400,000 mark on Thursday, as the massive surge in the outbreak continued to overwhelm hospitals and doctors throughout the country.India registered 408,331 new infections on Friday, setting yet another record for the world’s largest single-day total, to take its total tally of infections past 19 million.In nine out of the last 10 days, India has set new world records for daily cases, and subsequently broken them. The country had earned the grim distinction of being the world’s largest Covid hot spot nine days ago on April 21 – the day new cases crossed 300,000 for the first time.In the past week, India has reported more than 2.5 million new cases of Covid-19 – accounting for more than 43% of all cases reported worldwide.A total of 3,523 people lost their lives to the disease on Friday taking the total number of deaths in the country to 211,855, according to HT’s dashboard, as the relentless expansion of the outbreak continued to spark shortages of hospital beds and other crucial supplies such as oxygen and medicines. htc||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-new-covid-19-cases-cross-400k-101619822593104.html
01-05-2021||India||‘We also hear cries’: Supreme Court asks govt to overhaul Covid plan||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the central government for a “substantial rethink of its policy decisions” on handling of the public heath emergency set off by the second Covid-19 wave, as it emphasised on the augmentation of medical oxygen, an overhaul of the vaccination programme to ensure equitable distribution, and deregulating exclusive intellectual property rights to boost the production of essential drugs.Among the urgent suggestions the court made was that the Centre must consider increasing Delhi’s medical oxygen quota by 210 metric tonne (MT), raising it from the current 490MT, which has been a repeated demand of the Delhi government, and ensure that supply reaches the Capital.“The intervention of the Supreme Court must make a difference in people’s lives. It must save some lives,” remarked the bench, headed by justice Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, as it listed out the areas of concern where, it said, the government must “do some serious thinking on their policy decisions and revisit them”.Reading out from a note prepared by him, justice Chandrachud highlighted that the focus areas of the court, in its first comprehensive intervention into the current Covid crisis, included the management and augmentation of medical oxygen with a real-time central dashboard for demand and supply; a plan to make vaccines available to everyone in the country at the same price with an endeavour to make them free for the poor and the maginalised; compulsory licences to more manufacturing units after a temporary waiver of the patents in order to ramp up production of essential medicines such as remdesivir and favipiravir; and ensuring hospitalisation to all those who require urgent medical aid.“We also hear people crying. People who have crossed our paths crying for a cylinder of oxygen. Today the ground situation in the national capital is that there is no oxygen...or for that matter, in Gujarat or in other states. We can’t revive who have left us but we can certainly do something to save life of several others. We want you to tell us within a foreseeable future, what is going to be the difference? How will things change on the ground?” the bench, which included justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat, asked solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who represented the Centre.While fixing the next date of hearing as May 10 to enable the Centre to respond to the necessity of modifying its policies, the bench said it will issue some interim directions to take care of the present situation, and the order will be uploaded on the Supreme Court website on Saturday morning.One of the immediate directions, the court said, will be on ensuring that no patient is turned away by a Covid care facility in any state for want of a residential proof or any particular identity card.The S-G responded that the Centre was talking to all states since it was aware that there could be a second surge of infection which could be more serious than the first wave. He said that the Union government may issue directions for a uniform policy for admission of patients in the hospitals while other priorities such as augmentation of medical oxygen and ramping up of vaccine manufacturing were being looked into diligently.When Mehta said that the Delhi government has not been able to lift the allotted quantity of oxygen for want of tankers, the bench responded that the Centre had a “very valuable responsibility” where citizens of Delhi were concerned.“Delhi represents the nation and there is hardly any one ethnically Delhiite. Delhi represents people from all over the country. You have a special responsibility as the Centre,” it observed and added that the Centre must also help Delhi in arranging tankers for transportation of oxygen.In the suo motu (on its own) proceedings of the top court, Mehta was assisted by Sumita Dawra, an additional secretary in the ministry of commerce and industry, who heads the oxygen procurement and supply coordination team at the Centre. Dawra contended through a presentation that there was enough quantity of medical oxygen available in the country, and the issues relating to tankers and transportation were being ironed out.The court had several pointed queries on the vaccination policy, apart from ramping up the production of essential medicines by way of deregulating the patent. Justices Chandrachud and Bhat repeatedly underscored that there was a looming national emergency, requiring the Union government to suspend the patent rights of the manufacturers of essential drugs so that more units could be put to task to meet the pressing demand.The bench reminded the S-G of the pertinent provisions of the Patent Act, asking why the Supreme Court should not issue authorisation for using the patent for government purposes whereby the government could give compulsory licences for generics to manufacture remdesivir, favipiravir and tocilizumab after temporarily suspending the intellectual property rights.“You can declare a national emergency and then use your powers under the Patents Act so that anybody can manufacture these drugs on your licences. This is a case where we should go for compulsory licensing. Look at statistics. Germany, Canada and many other countries have done the same thing. This is a public health emergency. You have no less than 10 PSUs that can take over and start manufacturing,” the bench told the S-G, asking for a response to this on the next date.“Doha Declaration of TRIPS shows that member states can take such steps to protect right of public health. Why should the court not issue directions under Section 100 and Section 92 to enable generics to manufacture these drugs without the fear of legal action? Is the logistical concern more important than right to health?” asked the judges.The bench added that under the existing legal regime, India could bypass the patent rules for remdesivir by importing the drug from Bangladesh, and could also take a licence from the neighbouring manufacturer to produce the drug in India.About the vaccination programme, the bench questioned the difference in vaccine pricing for the Centre and states, and asked why citizens of the same country should be made to pay more based on when or where they were inoculated.The court urged the Centre to follow the model of the national immunisation programme, where the Centre negotiated with the vaccine manufacturers and bought vaccines for the entire country while the states took care of the transportation.“Why isn’t the government buying 100% of doses? What is the rationale of Centre and state pricing? Ultimately it is for the citizens of the same country. You have created this duopoly of manufacturers and only Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech are producing these vaccines. But we cannot allow cooperative federalism when it comes to pricing of drugs. This is a national emergency. You place the order and let states lift it. You have been able to get at ₹150 for 20 crore people. The same manufacturers are now charging states between ₹400 and 600,” the court told Mehta.It further noted that the vaccine companies were selling the vaccines at lower prices to foreign nations. “Why should we, as a nation, purchase it at a higher rate? There is no point of different prices,” the bench told Mehta. “We are talking about the pricing of the vaccines because we believe that the most marginalised of the people should get the vaccine free even if they are below 45,” added the court.It also wanted to know from the government the investments it has made and advances given to the two companies -- Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech -- for research and innovation, as well as for increasing production of vaccines.The bench asked Mehta how the government expected illiterate people and marginalised sections to register themselves on the centralised CoWin portal for inoculation when they neither had the knowledge nor the access.Some of the other issues that the Centre needs to address by May 10 include the availability of beds, proactive testing, number of Covid care centres, adequacy of health care professionals, their protection and treatment, and helplines in every district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-also-hear-cries-supreme-court-asks-govt-to-overhaul-covid-plan-101619821975610.html
01-05-2021||India||Don’t queue up for a shot just yet: Kejriwal||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal urged adults younger than the age of 45 not to head to Covid-19 vaccine centres just yet, saying the government does not have the doses to launch the programme for the public on Saturday, but documents and comments by officials separately suggest the launch could start on May 3.Kejriwal’s comments come at a time when there is confusion about how the 18-44 age group will get doses since several states have not been able to procure the stocks that need to be sourced separately from those meant for the 45-plus age group. At least three private hospital chains -- Max, Apollo and Fortis -- announced they will begin administering doses to this group at some facilities in the National Capital Region on Saturday.“The vaccines have not reached us till now. We are in touch with the manufacturers and the first batch of 300,000 doses of Covishield vaccine is likely to arrive in a day or two,” Kejriwal said during a press briefing streamed online.He added: “I appeal to all citizens to not queue up at vaccination centres before our announcement as this might lead to violation of social distancing, and create a law and order situation.”According to senior officials and documents seen by HT, the CM is likely to do a symbolic launch from a Delhi government dispensary in north-west Delhi’s Saraswati Vihar on Saturday, and the public launch may take place on Monday, May 3.A government official, who asked not to be named, said the vaccination of 18-44 will begin from 100 schools, and not government hospitals, with each institute hosting five session sites. Each site will be given 150 doses, suggesting there could be total capacity of 75,000 doses.“It was decided to shift the centres from hospitals to non-healthcare facilities such as schools because all these hospitals are now packed with Covid-19 patients and are already crowded. We recently received approval from the central government to open vaccination centres in schools and other such spaces. Had the drive continued in hospitals, there would have been an increased risk of people getting infected by Covid-19,” said this person, asking not to be named.By May 7, the government will increase the number of schools to 274 -- one in each ward of Delhi, according to a document that lays out the blueprint of the drive.Kejriwal said the Delhi government will procure 13.4 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines over the next three months. He added that 6.7 million doses will be procured from Serum Institute of India, which manufactures Covishield, the mainstay of India’s vaccination programme, and the remaining from Bharat Biotech, the manufacturer of Covaxin.“We are trying our best that within the next three months, the entire population of Delhi gets vaccinated. We have formulated a plan and even the infrastructure needed for this is in place. Now it will depend on the two companies as to how swiftly they provide us with the vaccine,” he said.Kejriwal added that, for its part, the government has laid out a road map in terms of increasing the number of centres and the support staff required.“However, a lot also depends on whether the manufacturers are able to send us the doses in a timely manner without any delay. These 13.4 million doses will come over a period of three months and we have asked both the manufacturers for their schedules on supply of the demanded doses,” he said.Several states have now said that they are looking at only mid-to-late May for deliveries, with some even claiming that they were yet to hear back from vaccine makers.Experts and officials expect a rush for vaccines when the under-45 age group becomes eligible for doses on May 1. A sign of this was apparent on April 28, when over 10 million people registered on the Co-WIN platform in six hours after the option opened for the 18-44 age group.Till now, only people 45 years of age and above, or health care and frontline workers such as police and firefighters, were eligible for doses.The rush is likely to be fuelled by the current spike in cases, which has forced the Capital into a lockdown since April 17.According to a second official, who asked not to be named, private hospitals have been asked to return all remaining doses provided by the government for the current vaccination drive meant for people above 45 after Friday’s vaccination and purchase their own shots.Some private hospitals in Delhi said both vaccine manufacturers have told them they will have to wait to procure doses independently. The manufacturers have said they would first meet the orders placed by state governments and then those by private hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-queue-up-for-a-shot-just-yet-kejriwal-101619821796238.html
01-05-2021||India||Xi expresses concern, offers help for India in message to PM Modi||Chinese President Xi Jinping on Friday expressed serious concern on the coronavirus pandemic in India, and offered to help fight the outbreak in a message to Prime Minister Narendra Modi.“China is willing to strengthen anti-pandemic cooperation with India, and provide support and help to the country,” official news agency Xinhua quoted Xi as saying. “I am very concerned about the recent outbreak of new coronary pneumonia in India and would like to express sincere condolences to the Indian government and people on behalf of the Chinese government and Chinese people, and on my own behalf,” Xi added in the message.The Chinese President also said that human beings are a community of destiny, and only through solidarity and cooperation can the nations of the world finally overcome the epidemic.“China is ready to strengthen anti-epidemic cooperation with India and provide support and assistance to India. I am confident that under the leadership of the Indian Government, the people of India will be able to overcome the epidemic,” Xi said.Earlier in the day, the Chinese foreign ministry said local companies have exported more than 3,800 tonnes of medical supplies and ventilators to India in April to help fight the surging Covid-19 pandemic in the country.The Chinese customs department is also providing clearance to transport liquid oxygen storage tanks and oxygen generators to India from many cities, foreign ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin said, adding that Chinese provincial governments, NGOs and companies are raising anti-epidemic material that India needs urgently.The medical and equipment supplies from China to India, however, are mostly being done between companies as New Delhi and Beijing are yet to open a government-to-government route.India is yet to officially acknowledge China’s offer of help, which was first made by the Chinese foreign ministry through the media last week.Xi’s remarks come at a time the armies of the two countries are engaged in high-level talks to disengage troops from the Line of Actual Control (LAC) amid a months-long border standoff in eastern Ladakh.Friday’s update from the foreign ministry came a day after state councillor and foreign minister Wang Yi promised external affairs minister S Jaishankar to do the utmost in supporting India’s fight against current outbreak in India at a faster pace.In a letter to Jaishankar, Wang said that the Chinese side “shares empathy for the challenges facing India and expresses sincere sympathy”.Following up on minister Wang’s promise, foreign ministry spokesperson Wang said China has always been paying close attention to the development of the pandemic situation in India.Wang said many sections of Chinese society have taken action to collect material to send to India and to “deliver them to the Indian people as soon as possible”. He added that many donations in this context are being made through unofficial channels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/xi-expresses-concern-offers-help-for-india-in-message-to-pmmodi-101619821578453.html
01-05-2021||India||Centre has a ‘special duty’ towards people of Delhi, says Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the Centre to urgently consider Delhi’s enhanced medical oxygen requirement in light of the fourth wave of Covid-19 in the city, observing that it has a “special duty” to the people of the national capital.“Delhi represents the nation. There is hardly anyone ethnically Delhiite. Forget that somebody (Delhi government) wasn’t able to lift oxygen, but you have to push through because you have to protect lives. You have a special responsibility towards Delhi as the Centre,” a bench, presided over by Justice Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta.The remarks came after Mehta, representing the Union government, pointed out that all the states were required to gather their resources to lift oxygen from the points of procurement, but the Delhi government failed to do so because it did not have enough tankers to carry the oxygen.The law officer made this statement as the bench, which also included justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat, heard a public interest litigation registered suo motu (on its own) by the top court to manage various issues arising out of the second Covid-19 wave in the country and iron out issues between states and Centre at the national level.The court also asked Centre to consider increasing Delhi’s medical oxygen quota from the current 490MT, which has been a repeated demand of the Delhi government, and ensure that supply reaches the Capital.The allotted 490MT, the bench said, has not reached the Capital even once because of logistical constraints.“Please give them 200MT straightaway and make sure it arrives there. The Centre has a very valuable responsibility when the citizens of Delhi are concerned. Otherwise between today and Monday, we will have 500 deaths on our hands if we don’t do anything. I’m shaken. Please, do something. You have to do it,” justice Chandrachud told Mehta.While the S-G retorted that the death of 500 people could not be attributed to the oxygen shortages, the bench said the Centre’s role was not confined to allocation of oxygen, and that it also has a “very important role” in arranging for tankers for their transportation.“We will place your submission at the highest [pedestal], and we will accept Delhi’s inability, but we are not here on recrimination. We are not criticising you at all. But you should also know Delhi represents people from the entire country. The Centre has a peculiar role. You are the national government, and it is the national capital,” the bench told Mehta.“According to you, Delhi has not been able to lift [oxygen], but we cannot tell people that your parents or children or spouse cannot be helped because of this situation. This is a commitment we owe to the citizens and people who live here and not to different levels of government. You have to give us the solution,” it told the S-G, who assured the bench that the Centre will look into all the issues and will try to resolve the matter. The matter will now be heard on May 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-has-a-special-duty-towards-people-of-delhi-says-supreme-court-101619821005434.html
01-05-2021||India||The pain of being in a Covid ICU||These days, everybody wants to be a doctor’s best friend.So say hello to Muhammed Huzaifa, 24, a junior resident doctor in surgery at Delhi’s premier All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). A Bangalore native, at the time of writing this piece he is on duty in the Covid ICU, where he, along with a team of fellow doctors, cares for some of the most critical cases of Covid patients.Dr Huzaifa doesn’t have a fixed routine, for his 6-hour-long shift rotates daily. Today is his weekly off and he is chatting from the quietude of his room—the hostel is inside the AIIMS campus. “Pigeons are the only birds that visit my balcony... they sit upon my AC,” he says on WhatsApp video.Dr Huzaifa agrees to give a first person account of what it is like for a medical professional working in the heart of this deadly pandemic.“It was another day of Ramadan fast. I offered my afternoon namaz at my room in Kashyap Hostel in AIIMS, made supplication to God to relieve people’s suffering, and headed to my duty at the Covid ICU in the AIIMS Trauma Centre. The place was in chaos. A colleague was standing near an intubated patient (on ventilator), looking at the monitor. ‘Three patients got intubated,’ he said. I took a deep breath, nodded my head in agony, and followed my team leader, the senior resident doctor, who was taking over from the previous team regarding the progress of each patient.As I moved from bed to bed with a heavy heart, I noticed a patient on nasal prong. He was on HFNC (high flow nasal cannula) in my previous shift, but now looked comfortable and was busy over a spirometer, a lung expanding exercise. “This patient can be shifted out”—hearing these words from the team leader gave us all a sense of relief. It was an appreciation for all the hard work we resident doctors do despite being physically fatigued, mentally drained and emotionally exhausted.As things in the ICU settled down and clock ticked 6.30pm, I thought of doffing my PPE (personal protective equipment) to break my fast. Just then we got an emergency—to drain air from a patient’s lung. I forgot all about my fast-induced hunger. The next time I looked at the time, it was 8.15pm. My team leader let me go. I finally doffed my PPE, took a sip of water and thanked God for each breath.After I returned to my hostel room and checked my phone, there were numerous messages and calls from friends and relatives with requests for ICU beds, oxygen, and medications. Conveying my helplessness to them only made me hopeless. Just another day in the life of a junior doc like me.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-pain-of-being-in-a-covid-icu-101619818427587.html
01-05-2021||India||Hazaribagh man out during lockdown dies after being ‘beaten’ by police, probe on||A 50-year-old man, who was out while lockdown was in place along with his wife and younger brother, died allegedly after police thrashed him on Thursday evening. The wife of the deceased lodged a complaint in this regard with Chouparan police station on Friday.The deceased was identified as Chakkan Bhuinyan, a resident of Machla village in Hazaribag district. According to his wife Babita Devi, she, along with his husband and brother in-law Shankar Bhuiyan, was going to attend a wedding on Thursday around 5.30pm when the incident took place.“On our way at Karma village (around 1km from Machla village), a patrolling police vehicle came and stopped in front of our bike. On enquiry, we told them that we were going to attend a wedding ceremony, but they started beating my husband with sticks. He died on the spot,” Devi alleged.Corroborating Devi’s claim, mukhiya of Karma village, Rajdev Yadav, said, “The incident took place near my residence. Babita and Shankar protested, but the police beat them also. After the brutal thrashing, police left Bhuiyan on the street. We took him to a nearby hospital, where doctors declared him brought dead.”Meanwhile, Barhi deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Nazir Akhtar, who was leading the police investigation in this connection, visited Karma village on Friday and talked to locals. He said, “The body of the deceased was sent to Hazaribagh on Friday for postmortem examination. We are investigating the matter. We will be able to say anything after investigation is completed. Action will be taken if anyone is found guilty in the incident.”Police patrolling vehicles were roaming to ensure no shops are open after the given time limit in a bid to ensure implementation of the ongoing Swasthya Suraksha Saptah, the DSP said, adding, “In light of the lockdown, shops are not allowed to open after 2pm.”Yadav, who is also president of Mukhiya Sangh of Chouparan block, said, “Irate villagers put up a road blockade on Thursday night, demanding action against the police personnel involved in the incident. We have also demanded compensation and job to Bhuiyan’s wife. Bhuiyan, a daily wage worker, was the sole bread earner of the family.”The state government recently on Wednesday extended the previous weeklong lockdown till May 6 with few more restrictions in a bid to break the chain of rapidly spreading coronavirus in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hazaribagh-man-out-during-lockdown-dies-after-being-beaten-by-police-probe-on-101619817198960.html
01-05-2021||India||MP govt orders all district collectors to trace, quarantine Kumbh returnees||Madhya Pradesh on Friday ordered all districts to trace people who visited the Mahakumbh in Haridwar, test them for Covid and quarantine them, after a similar exercise in Vidisha district showed that 60 out of 61 devotees contracted the infection.Vidisha’s chief medical and health officer BS Ahirwar said the administration traced 61 people who returned from the Kumbh in Gyaraspur and found 60 of them were infected. At least 9.1 million people visited the Kumbh this year, which was criticised for violating Covid norms.“It is surprising that 99% people returned from Kumbh in Gyaraspur area have been tested positive. More than two dozen people who have returned from Kumbh are yet to be traced. It is a matter of concern as they could be super spreader of the infection,” said Ahirwar.In the district, 71 Kumbh returnees have tested positive in total and 313 other devotees have been quarantined. In all, the district has posted 3241 cases in the past two weeks.Madhya Pradesh posted 12,400 cases and 97 deaths on Friday, taking its tally to 466915 and 5616, respectively.The state home department asked district collectors to speed up the tracing of Kumbh returnees and their contacts and quarantine them for 14 days. They will be given entry in the village and urban locality only after an RT-PCR test, said an officer of a home department, who didn’t wish to be named.“Most of the districts are yet to trace people and share data especially in urban area. After this Vidisha incident, the collectors have been asked to create awareness and hold a campaign to request people to share information of Kumbh returnees and to quarantine them compulsorily,” said additional chief secretary (home), Rajesh Rajora.But some people opposed the move.“We are absolutely fine and came back 10 days ago but now the administration are forcing us to undergo quarantine. This is an illogical step. Why only us, they should do the same with all those who travelled in the past few days.” said Rajesh Jat, resident of Sirohi village of the district.The state transport department has also suspended bus services between Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh.A second officer in the home department said it was not easy to trace people and quarantine them. “Many people are not willing to tell that they came from Kumbh. Only after testing positive, they say so. They are afraid of quarantine outside the village,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-govt-orders-all-district-collectors-to-trace-quarantine-kumbh-returnees-101619816953849.html
01-05-2021||India||Forces granted emergency financial powers amid Covid-19 crisis||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Friday granted emergency financial powers to the military to strengthen and accelerate its efforts to deal with the crisis posed by the coronavirus disease pandemic even as the Indian Navy dispatched its warships to foreign shores to bring back liquid oxygen filled cryogenic containers.“These (financial) powers will help formation commanders to establish and operate quarantine facilities/hospitals and undertake procurement/repair of equipment/items/material/stores, besides provisioning of various services and works required to support the ongoing effort against the pandemic,” the defence ministry said in a statement.While vice chiefs of armed forces including Chief of Integrated Defence Staff to the Chairman Chiefs of Staff Committee (CISC) and army commanders (and their equivalent ranks in the navy and air force) have been given “full powers”, corps commanders and area commanders have been delegated powers to spend up to ₹50 lakh each.While the statement did not elaborate on financial powers given to the vice chiefs and others, ministry officials said “full powers” implied that finances should not come in the way of mounting a robust response to the pandemic. Division commanders/sub area commanders and their equivalent ranks in the navy and air force have been delegated powers to spend up to ₹20 lakh per case. Such powers were sanctioned last year too when the pandemic first broke out.“These powers have been devolved initially for a period of three months, from May 1 to July 31, 2021,” the statement said. These powers are in addition to the emergency powers granted to the military’s medical officers last week.On April 23, Singh granted emergency buying powers to senior military doctors as part of the ministry’s overall plan to fight the outbreak. While the heads of the medical wings of the three services were given powers to make purchases worth ₹5 crore, doctors holding the ranks of major general and brigadier were allowed to make procurements worth ₹3 crore and ₹2 crore, respectively.Prime Minister Narendra Modi has reviewed the military’s preparations for Covid relief thrice this week in one-on-one meetings with the chief of defence staff, the Indian Air force chief and the army chief.As part of the steps being taken by the armed forces to fight the outbreak, the navy on Friday launched Operation Samudra Setu-II and dispatched warships to Bahrain, Thailand and Singapore for shipment of oxygen filled cryogenic containers to India.“Two warships, INS Kolkata and INS Talwar. have entered port of Manama, Bahrain, for transporting 40MT of liquid oxygen to Mumbai. INS Jalashwa is enroute to Bangkok and INS Airavat to Singapore for similar missions,” navy spokesperson Commander Vivek Madhwal said.IAF is also making a significant contribution in the fight against Covid by transporting much-needed empty oxygen containers to filling stations across the country. It has been involved in ferrying empty cryogenic oxygen containers to filling centres in India from different domestic locations and even abroad to help hospitals tide over the oxygen crisis.IAF chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria told PM Narendra Modi on April 28 that he has ordered 24x7 readiness of the IAF’s entire heavy-lift fleet and substantial numbers of its medium-lift fleet to operate in a hub and spoke model to swiftly meet all Covid-related tasking across the country and overseas.“As of April 29, IAF has carried out 23 sorties from abroad, airlifting 39 oxygen containers with a capacity of 670 MT. Within the country, it carried out 124 sorties, airlifting 87 containers with a capacity of 1,798 MT. On Friday, IAF carried out 10 domestic sorties to help meet oxygen requirements,” said an IAF official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/forces-granted-emergency-financial-powers-amid-covid-19-crisis-101619813227347.html
01-05-2021||India||Experts urge govt to release data to help develop Covid mitigation plan||An online petition signed by scientists from various fields across the country has demanded that the government collect and release key epidemiological data on the ongoing pandemic to help scientists develop “data-driven mitigation strategies”. The scientists have also demanded that the restrictions put in place under “Atmanirbhar Bharat” (self-reliant India) policy be removed, claiming these hamper scientific study for the want of imported scientific equipment and reagents.“Our inability to adequately manage the spread of infections has, to a large extent, resulted from epidemiological data not being systematically collected and released in a timely manner to the scientific community,” the online petition reads. It has been signed by scientists including the country’s top vaccinologist Dr Gagandeep Kang, biologist Dr Mukund Thattai, and epidemiologist Dr Jacob John.The scientists have made four major demands: large-scale genomic surveillance of new variants (the INSACOG sequences only 1% of the positive cases), release of granular data on testing and clinical outcome of Covid-19 cases, release of anonymised data on the clinical outcomes of hospitalised patients, and data on the immune response to vaccination in Indian population.“The ICMR database is inaccessible to anyone outside of the government and perhaps also to many within the government. Most scientists – including several identified by DST and NITI Aayog to develop new prediction models for India – do not have access to this data. Public health measures in India should necessarily vary from one local area to another, because there is a great geographical variability in patterns of spread of the infection due to local conditions,” the petition read.Data that is available to researchers are often scattered and available in different formats, thus preventing them from drawing meaningful conclusions. “As a computational biologist, the data I have been working with mainly involve the new case numbers and outcomes (recovery/death) over the course of the first and second wave. At the moment, the datasets are fragmented across different states and local authorities,” said Dr Thattai.He added that granular data – anonymised age, gender, district, date of positive test, date of hospitalisation, date of recovery or death, vaccination status, previous infection status if any – should be made available to all scientists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/experts-urge-govt-to-release-data-to-help-develop-covid-mitigation-plan-101619812846109.html
01-05-2021||India||Madras HC declines EC plea to bar media from reporting observations||The Madras high court on Friday declined to entertain a plea by the Election Commission of India’s (ECI) to restrain the media from reporting oral observations made by judges during court proceedings.The poll body was aggrieved by wide coverage of observations made by a bench of chief justice Sanjib Banerjee and justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy on Monday while hearing the suo motu (on its own) case on the preparedness for Covid-19 second wave in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry.The judges had remarked that ECI was singularly responsible for the second wave because it didn’t take action against political rallies that violated Covid-19 norms and added that its officials should probably be booked for murder.Reporting of these comments had caused great damage and tarnished ECI’s image, its counsel Rakesh Dwivedi contended, adding that people filed police complaints and FIRs against ECI based on the statement.”The courts concerned would take care of such frivolous complaints being filed against the ECI... lets not play a blame game,” the chief justice said, refusing to restrain the media.Dwivedi also apprised the court of measures taken to ensure that Covid-19 protocols are followed on May 2, when results of assembly elections to four states and a Union Territory will be announced.He raised the issue of the coverage of the court’s oral remarks, complaining that the press highlighted only the observations and not the written order that did not contain any such statement against the poll body.Dwivedi asked the court to direct media houses to confine their reports to observations recorded in orders or judgments and to refrain from reporting on oral observations made during court proceedings.The bench, however, did not issue any such order even though it wrapped up the proceedings in the case filed by Tamil Nadu transport minister M R Vijayabhaskar for a safe and fair counting on May 2 since his constituency Karur has 77 candidates.“Two aspects cannot be missed. First, is the Union’s endeavour to indicate that surge in numbers may be unexpected ...second aspect is the Election commission’s concern about sensationalism. The post-mortem on either count may have to wait particularly in light of immediate measures that may be put in place,” the court said in its order.The HC will continue hearing the case relating to preparedness to deal with surge in Covid-19 cases. It has suggested that the state conduct extensive drives for vaccinations, put up information on the internet and other mediums so that people don’t panic. Political parties, media were directed to follow pandemic norms and not burst crackers as part of victory celebrations.The matter has been adjourned to May 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madras-hc-declines-ec-plea-to-bar-media-from-reporting-observations-101619812442264.html
01-05-2021||India||Must fight to defeat Covid crisis, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday chaired a meeting with his council of ministers and other key officials, urging them to tackle the pandemic at a time when India is adding record cases of Covid-19 through personal involvement in their local regions, and ensuring that governments and citizens fight the “once in a century crisis” collectively.“The Council of Ministers meeting noted that the present pandemic crisis is ‘once in a century crisis’ and has thrown a big challenge for the world,” said a statement released by the government after the meeting.At the meeting, PM Modi noted that “all arms of the government are working unitedly & rapidly to deal with the situation”. He also urged the ministers to stay in touch with people of their respective regions, identify and address issues at the local level, according to the statement.”A lot is being done by the Prime Minister,’’ a Cabinet minister said on condition of anonymity, adding: “We are trying to minimise the impact as best as we can.”Friday’s meeting -- the first for the Council of Ministers since the second wave of infections began in February -- comes at a time the country is firmly in the grip of its worst ever Covid-19 outbreak that has broken all global records in daily cases.India recorded 408,331 new cases and added 3,523 deaths on Friday, taking its cumulative tally to 19,162,943 and toll to 211,855.The ministers were also briefed about the measures taken to address oxygen scarcity in several parts of the country, especially the national capital, in the past week, according to the statement. Other issues of discussion included shortage of essential medicines and efforts to scale up health infrastructure.Several areas, specifically the Delhi-National Capital Region, have in recent days seen an unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases that have burdened the health infrastructure and led to a shortage in supply of medical oxygen. The crisis deepened last week, with hospitals across Delhi-NCR resorting to distress calls on social media as they ran low on oxygen stocks. While the situation has improved since, there is still a scarcity of supply as cases continue to mount.The Council of Ministers also stressed the importance of Covid appropriate behaviour, and reiterated that the participation of society is a key aspect to accomplish the “gigantic task ahead”, the statement said.Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal “Nishank” -- who tested positive for Covid-19 earlier this month -- could not attend Friday’s meeting as he is undergoing treatment at a Delhi hospital. Other Union ministers who are recovering from the viral illness include labour minister Santosh Gangwar, sports minister Kiren Rijiju and minister of personnel Jitendra Singh.Along with ministers, the virtual meeting was attended by principal secretary to the Prime Minister, PK Mishra, cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba and Dr VK Paul, Niti Aayog member who also heads the government task force on vaccination.The Prime Minister has held several high-level meetings to discuss the pandemic situation in the country in recent days.Earlier in the day, Congress MP Rahul Gandhi tweeted, “The second wave is in its fourth week and already claimed 2 lakh lives and counting. Yet there is no accountability from the government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/must-fight-to-defeat-covid-crisis-says-pm-modi-101619812318420.html
01-05-2021||India||Will treat action against pleas on social media as contempt: Supreme Court||A clampdown on messages for help on social media is the “worst way” to deal with the Covid-19 crisis, said the Supreme Court on Friday, warning all state governments against taking action against people using online platforms to make desperate appeals for oxygen, essential medicines, and other help.Any such action by governments or state police would be treated as a contempt of court, the top court added.“It is a matter of grave concerns to us. If citizens communicate their grievances either on the Internet or on social media, there cannot be a clampdown. We don’t want a clampdown of information. That’s the worst way of dealing with a crisis,” observed a bench headed by justice Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud.The bench, which included justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat, gave examples of various social media posts, asking for help when somebody needed an oxygen cylinder, or a bed in a hospital, or the drug remdesivir.“To act against someone who is seeking help for oxygen or a medicine is against the basis precept,” said the bench, adding it wanted to caution all the state governments and their director generals of police (DGPs) against any action against those seeking help.“Let this message go very clearly to all states and their DGPs, we will treat this as a contempt of this court of they want a clampdown on communication. Let everyone understand that we are not projecting anyone in a bad light but looking out for help,” remarked the court.The bench concluded its discussion on the issue by making it unequivocal: “Let information flow freely. Let us hear the voices of our citizens and not a clampdown on them.”Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who appeared for the Central government in the matter, agreed with the court, saying there could not be any action people who were already in distress, asking for help.The court’s observations assume significance in the wake of a recent case lodged in Uttar Pradesh’s Amethi district against a 26-year-old man for allegedly spreading “false information” on social media over the supply of oxygen. Shashank Yadav made an appeal on Twitter for an oxygen cylinder for his critically ill grandfather, which the police later claimed was false. Earlier this week, Yadav was booked under the charges of the Epidemic Act and the Indian Penal Code for spreading false information with an intent to create panic in society. Yadav was taken to a police station for questioning, but was later let off.In the backdrop of this case, activist Saket Gokhale this week moved the Allahabad high court seeking to restrain the UP government from taking coercive action against such persons who appealed for oxygen supply and other medical assistance on social media.“Filing criminal cases against families of critical patients issuing SOS calls for oxygen on social media is a gross misuse of the powers of the state and is illegal coercive action that is being taken to maintain the image of the government and to clamp down on any criticism of their handling of the Covid-19 pandemic and to present a fake picture that everything is hunky dory in the state,” stated Gokhale’s petition, which is yet to come up for a hearing before the high court.“There is no clampdown or restriction on information, grievances communication on social media in the state. In fact, the state government’s various departments such as the police and others are tracking social media and also extending help, rescue, assistance. However, the state government will act on such people who will spread misinformation, ill-intent panic triggering or rumour-mongering,” said a senior UP government officer requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-treat-action-against-pleas-on-social-media-as-contempt-supreme-court-101619812167965.html
01-05-2021||India||TV journalist Rohit Sardana dies of Covid-19, cremated in Kurukshetra||Television journalist Rohit Sardana, who tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), passed away in Delhi on Friday at the age of 40.Sardana, who was an executive editor and TV news anchor with Aaj Tak of the India Today Group, is survived by his wife, two daughters and parents.“We are all shocked by the death of our colleague and friend, Rohit Sardana. This incomparable loss cannot be expressed in words. We express our condolences to his family in this hour of grief,” Aaj Tak tweeted in Hindi.Several political leaders took to social media to express grief over the journalist’s death. Taking to Twitter, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said, “Rohit Sardana left us too soon. Full of energy, passionate about India’s progress, and a kind-hearted soul, Rohit will be missed by many people. His untimely demise has left a huge void in the media world. Condolences to his family, friends, and admirers. Om Shanti.”Union home minister Amit Shah and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal also posted condolence messages on social media.Sardana’s mortal remains were cremated at his hometown in Kurukshetra on Friday.On April 24, he had tweeted saying that he has developed Covid symptoms and later a CT scan confirmed the infection. Haryana home minister Anil Vij, sports minister Sandeep Singh and Kurukshetra MP Nayab Saini attended the cremation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tv-journalist-rohit-sardana-dies-of-covid-19-cremated-in-kurukshetra-101619811956855.html
01-05-2021||India||Partial lockdown in Bengal as Covid-19 cases surge||A day after assembly elections ended in West Bengal, the state government partially locked down the state and clamped restrictions on markets, cinemas and gatherings to arrest the surging second wave of coronavirus cases.The government ordered shutting of shopping malls, cinema halls, restaurants and bars, sports complexes, gyms, spas, swimming and beauty parlours. It also prohibited all kinds of social, cultural, academic, and entertainment related gatherings. Weddings are banned, while home deliveries and online services are allowed.Market timings were restricted. Bazaars and hats will open from 7 am to 10 am and 3 pm to 5 pm. Essential services such as medical shops and groceries have been exempted.West Bengal registered 17,411 new Covid-19 cases on Friday, up from 216 cases reported on February 26, when the Election Commission of India announced the eight-phase poll schedule. Health experts have linked the surge in cases to mask-less political rallies that violated Covid protocol.The state has 113,624 active cases now, and many hospitals in state capital Kolkata and district towns are nearly full. 11,344 people have died of Covid in Bengal.The state education department also decided to promote all students of class XI to class XII this year. Examinees for Class 12 will appear for the test at their own institution (home venue). The timing of the exam has also been rescheduled.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had last week ruled out the possibility of a full-fledged lockdown in the state.The state government had earlier made it mandatory for flight passengers arriving from nine states - Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Chhattisgarh, Kerala, Maharashtra, Telangana, and Karnataka - to carry Covid-19 negative reports. Wearing masks is also mandatory.Weekend lockdown in 9 Haryana districtsThe Haryana government has imposed a weekend lockdown from Friday 10pm till Monday 5am in Panchkula, Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonipat, Rohtak, Karnal, Hisar, Sirsa and Fatehabad districts amid a rise in Covid-19 cases.According to chief secretary Vijai Vardhan, the weekend lockdown has been imposed as the Covid-19 pandemic is again posing threat to public health.Any person violating curbs will attract proceedings as per the law and under the Disaster Management Act, 2005.Gehlot favours extension of Covid restrictionsRajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot has asked the officials to continue with the restrictions imposed under the lockdown and to make them more stringent in order to contain the spread of the coronavirus.Chairing a Covid-19 review meeting through video conference, Gehlot said stricter guidelines are required in view of the rapidly spreading infection in the state.The restrictions under the lockdown called ‘Public Discipline Fortnight’ came into force on April 19 and are effective till May 3. Now, the chief minister has asked the officials that the restrictions should remain in force even after May 3.He said the guidelines should be prepared while considering the concerns of the livelihood of the needy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/partial-lockdown-in-bengal-as-covid-19-cases-surge-101619811730499.html
01-05-2021||India||Govt explores possibility of producing Covaxin abroad||Centre is exploring the possibility of offering the locally developed coronavirus vaccine, Covaxin that has been jointly developed by Bharat Biotech and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), for production abroad through a technology transfer between commercial entities amid supply crunch, according to government officials aware of the development.“There is a need to meet the demand for Covid-19 vaccines in view of the new mutation of the virus to more infectious nature. We have decided to offer Covaxin to any interested foreign countries. The production would be done through technology transfer between commercial entities. Terms and conditions for the same would have to be finalised by the licence holder, Bharat Biotech,” one of the officials said on condition of anonymity.This will also be done with any future Indian vaccines, this person added. “It has also been communicated to missions abroad to seek interested countries for production abroad.”The move, which is expected to increase availability of and access to vaccines, especially in the global South comes at a time when India is looking to boost domestic production of the vaccines. The government last week decided to offer an advance (or supplier’s credit) of over ₹4,500 crore to Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech. Bharat Biotech on April 20 announced it will scale up of manufacturing capacity to produce 700 million doses of Covaxin annually.India’s indigenous vaccine, Covaxin is developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) - National Institute of Virology (NIV). The indigenous, inactivated vaccine is developed and manufactured in Bharat Biotech’s BSL-3 (Bio-Safety Level 3) high containment facility.It is, however, not clear whether ICMR shares Intellectual Property rights with Bharat Biotech on Covaxin. Nor was it immediately clear how and why the government is involved in what should seesntially be a technology transfer arrangement between two companies.Bharat Biotech, ICMR and the ministry of health did not respond to queries seeking comment.Covaxin recently came in for praise from the US’ top pandemic expert Dr Anthony Fauci, who said it “neutralises” 617 variants, according to PTI.In a statement issued on April 20, Bharat Biotech said it was exploring manufacturing partnerships with partners in other countries, who have prior expertise with commercial scale manufacture of inactivated viral vaccines under biosafety containment.“Manufacturing scale up has been carried out in a stepwise manner across multiple facilities at Hyderabad, and Bangalore. Inactivated vaccines, while highly safe, are extremely complex and expensive to manufacture, resulting in lower yields when compared to live virus vaccines,” it added in the statement.The company also said Covaxin has received Emergency Use Authorisation in several countries across the globe with another 60 in process. It has been granted EUAs in Mexico, Philippines, Iran, Paraguay, Guatemala, Nicaragua, Guyana, Venezuela, Botswana, Zimbabwe, among several other countries. It is in the process of getting EUAs in the US and Europe, according to Bharat Biotech.“I think, in principle this is great. Expanding manufacturing capacity outside is important not only to increase doses but increase capacity in other parts of the world, “ said Gagandeep Kang, professor at Christian Medical College and board member of Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-explores-possibility-of-producing-covaxin-abroad-101619811550268.html
01-05-2021||India||Supreme Court seeks govt reply on plea against sedition||The Supreme Court on Friday agreed to examine the constitutional validity of the penal law on sedition, which, a plea filed in the matter claimed, is often used to stifle dissent and valid criticism against government functionaries.A bench, headed by justice Uday U Lalit, sought a response from Centre on a plea challenging the constitutional validity of sedition law while also calling for assistance of attorney general KK Venugopal considering the significance of the matter.The bench, which included justices Indira Banerjee and K M Joseph, issued notices while hearing the petition filed by two journalists and argued by senior counsel Colin Gonsalves, who challenged the validity of Section 124-A of the Indian Penal Code, 1860, which penalises the crime of sedition punishable with either imprisonment ranging from three years to a lifetime, a fine, or both.The petition, filed by Kishorechandra Wangkhemcha and Kanhaiya Lal Shukla - working in Manipur and Chhattisgarh, respectively, said Section 124-A infringed on the fundamental right to freedom of speech and expression which is guaranteed under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution.The journalists said that they were charged with sedition for their comments, on the social networking website Facebook, in which they sought to question certain policies and actions of the governments in the states and at the Centre.“There is frequent phenomenon of misuse, misapplication and abuse of Section 124-A since 1962...The sections of sedition have been repealed in comparative post-colonial democratic jurisdictions around the world. While India calls itself a ‘democracy’, throughout the democratic world the offence of sedition has been condemned as undemocratic, undesirable and unnecessary,” the plea stated.Citing the Supreme Court’s decision to uphold the validity of the law in 1962 in the case of Kedar Nath Singh Vs State of Bihar, the petitioners said that the court may have been correct in its finding nearly six decades ago, but the law no longer passed constitutional muster.India’s sedition law was introduced by the British in 1870 but the Constituent Assembly decided to drop it from the Constitution in 1948. The word “sedition” disappeared from the Constitution when it was adopted on November 26, 1949 and Article 19(1)(a) gave absolute freedom of speech and expression. Section 124A, however, stayed in the Indian Penal Code.In 1951, Jawaharlal Nehru brought in the first amendment of the Constitution to limit the freedom under Article 19(1)(a) and enacted Article 19(2) to empower the State to put curbs in the form of “reasonable restrictions” on the right to free speech.Through the 1962 judgment in Kedar Nath case, however, a constitution bench upheld the validity of the sedition law under the IPC and also defined the scope of sedition. The constitution bench held that Section 124A only penalised words that reveal an intent or tendency to disturb law and order or that seem to incite violence. This definition has been taken as precedent for all matters pertaining to Section 124A ever since.According to the data from the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), cases of sedition and under the stringent UAPA for terror cases showed a rise in 2019, but only 3% of the sedition cases resulted in convictions.The year 2019 saw a 25% increase in the number of sedition cases and a 41% increase in arrests over the previous year. A total of 93 cases of sedition were reported in 2019, with 96 arrests and charge sheets filed in 76 cases, as against 70 cases, 56 arrests and 27 chargesheets the previous year.The ministry of home affairs (MHA), in a written reply in February, informed the Rajya Sabha that out of the 96 people arrested for sedition in 2019, only two were convicted for the crime, while 29 were acquitted. Investigations and trials are ongoing in the rest of the cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-seeks-govt-reply-on-plea-against-sedition-101619811382028.html
01-05-2021||India||Ties with India intensified in first 100 days of Biden govt: US||The relationship between India and the United States has intensified in the first 100 days of the Biden administration, a State Department official said here. The engagement between the two countries during this period reflects a global comprehensive partnership, State Department spokesperson Ned Price said, asserting that there has been a concerted focus on India over these 100 days.“There’s been a concerted focus on India over the past 100 days. President Biden, of course, did make mention of India in his (State of the Union) address last night, and I think you can look at that deep partnership and commitment to partnership through any number of lenses,” Price said at his daily news conference.Biden himself had an opportunity to speak to Prime Minister Narendra Modi recently. Secretary of State Tony Blinken has engaged with his counterpart, Foreign Minister S Jaishankar, several times as well, he said.There have been several high-level delegations. Special Envoy on Climate Change John Kerry was in India not all that long ago. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin was in India to discuss elements of India-US security cooperation, Price said. “We have engaged with India in a multilateral context as well through the Quad, both at the ministerial level and, for the first time ever, at the leader level,” he said. “I have mentioned our climate cooperation, but also our health cooperation, and this was something that predates the pandemic but has intensified with the onset of the pandemic,” Price said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ties-with-india-intensified-in-first-100-days-of-biden-govt-us-101619811078397.html
01-05-2021||India||India stresses on boosting oxygen supplies in talks with US||As US support for India’s response to a devastating second wave of Covid-19 infections began flowing in on Friday, external affairs minister S Jaishankar emphasised the need to strengthen oxygen supplies and expand vaccine production.These issues figured in a phone conversation between Jaishankar and his American counterpart Antony Blinken. The two discussed India’s requirements to address the Covid-19 situation and reviewed the supply of equipment and materials by the US.They spoke hours after the first of three special US flights carrying supplies, including hundreds of oxygen cylinders, landed in New Delhi on Friday morning. Two more emergency flights are expected by May 3 in line with US President Joe Biden’s pledge to help India counter a brutal second wave of infections.“Our discussions focussed on Indian requirements to address the Covid challenge more effectively,” Jaishakar said in a tweet.“Reviewed the flow of equipment and material from the US. Highlighted the importance of strengthening oxygen supply, expanding vaccine production and increasing Remdesivir supply. Appreciated the forthcoming response of the US in this regard,” he added.The Indian government is focused on efforts to ramp up the production and delivery of oxygen to healthcare facilities across the country. A severe shortage of oxygen has been blamed for many deaths during the second wave.Blinken reaffirmed the strength of the US-India partnership in the face of the pandemic and expressed his “appreciation for Indian assistance in America’s time of need”, state department spokesperson Ned Price said. Blinken also noted the outpouring of support from US industries, non-governmental institutions and private citizens for Covid-19 relief efforts in India.“The secretary offered condolences and noted our concern for those who have lost friends and loved ones during this difficult period,” Price said.The first tranche of US relief materials was ferried in a C-5M Super Galaxy, one of the largest strategic airlift aircraft, and the supplies sent from Travis Air Force Base included 423 oxygen cylinders and regulators donated by the state of California, and 960,000 rapid diagnostic tests and 100,000 N95 masks provided by USAID.“A strategic partnership of global significance! Our healthcare partnership can help effectively tackle the global pandemic. Deeply appreciate gift of 423 oxygen cylinders with regulators and other medical supplies from the U.S.A.,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi tweeted.The US military’s transportation command played a key role in arranging the flight. The second emergency relief shipment, being sent in a C-17 Globemaster aircraft, will include oxygen-related equipment, diagnostic kits, masks and pulse oximeters.The initial emergency assistance from the US will include a total of 1,100 oxygen cylinders, 1,700 oxygen concentrators, multiple large-scale oxygen generation units to support up to 20 patients each and additional mobile units to target specific shortages. A team of US experts will support oxygen generation units by working on the ground alongside Indian personnel.The support will also include raw materials for the Covishield vaccine that the US has re-directed from its own order of manufacturing supplies. These materials will allow India to make more than 20 million doses of Covid-19 vaccine, the White House said.Biden had pledged the support of the US during a phone conversation with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday.The US relief supplies began flowing in shortly after support packages from Russia and member states of the European Union (EU), part of a global effort to help India cope with record-breaking infections that have surged past the 350,000-mark over the past several days.Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla has said support is expected from more than 40 countries, mostly oxygen-related equipment and critical medicines, to strengthen India’s response to an “unprecedented second wave” of infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-stresses-on-boosting-oxygen-supplies-in-talks-with-us-101619810313122.html
01-05-2021||India||Environment ministry eases norms for industry expansion||The environment ministry has allowed companies operating in several industries, including some polluting ones, to expand capacities on the basis of a self-certification that this will not “increase the pollution load”, creating the room for potential misdeclaration (and misuse), especially in light of a traditionally poor monitoring regime.Earlier this week, the ministry released a user manual for online submission of an undertaking on no increase in pollution load due to expansion, on its Parivesh website.This follows a notification issued by the ministry on March 2 which states that the Centre deems it necessary to permit increase in production capacity of processing, production and manufacturing sector with or without any change in raw material-mix or product-mix or any change in configuration of the plant without the requirement of prior environmental clearance provided that there is no increase in pollution load.The March 2 notification is applicable to industries such as coal washing, mineral processing, pesticides, fertilizers, synthetic chemicals such as paint, cement , petrochemicals, and sugar, some of which do have a significant environmental footprint.The motivation behind the notification isn’t clear. However, the notification itself claimed the environment ministry has received several requests from processing, production and the manufacturing sector for permitting increase in production capacity without having to go through the entire environmental clearance process again. Independent experts said this could mean benefitting most polluting industries who may already have a very large pollution footprint.The Centre amended the EIA (environmental impact assessment) notification 2006 on November 23, 2016 and January 16, 2020 providing flexibility. The 2016 and 2020 amendments introduced the principles of “no increase in pollution load” and exemption from seeking environment clearance if resultant increase of production capacity was less than 50%. This applied to a change in product mix, change in quantities within products, or number of products within the same category of industry. The March 2021 notification takes this further and allows any amount of expansion.The manual on the Parivesh website provides a questionnaire and provisions for uploading documents on expansion and an undertaking that the expansion will not lead to increase in pollution load. Industries will also have to upload a “no increase in pollution load certificate” from an environmental auditor or institutions empanelled by the State Pollution Control Board or Central Pollution Control Board or Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change.If on verification, the CPCB or SPCB , after giving the project proponent the opportunity of being heard, holds that such expansion or modernisation results in increase in pollution load, the exemption claimed under the clause shall become invalid. Also, such an exemption will be applicable if the industry installs Online Continuous Monitoring System (OCMS) with at least 95% uptime, connected to the servers of the CPCB or SPCBs.“The ease of “no increase in pollution load” was introduced to the environment clearance process from 2016, to gradually exempt project expansions from the purview of carrying out impact assessments or public hearings. Until now, this exemption was applicable up to 50% expansion. The new amendment has ensured that expansion of some of the most polluting industrial operations, i.e.chemical fertilizers, coal washing, mineral processing, petroleum refining, asbestos and cement production, can be carried provided a “no increase in pollution load certificate” can be produced by the project authorities,” said Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher, Centre for Policy Research.“Prior to these exemptions, the environmental performance and legal compliance with environmental safeguards had direct consequences for whether expansions could be allowed. These units would also require a public hearing. All these would allow affected people to weigh in legitimacy of the expansion and allow the environment ministry to assess the such legacy impacts, existing illegalities and conduct of project proponents. None of this will be required for all the projects operations granted exemptions through this amendment irrespective of its capacity,” she added.“The notification will cover certain industries covered in the schedule to the EIA notification 2006. The process is very clear. The industries can self-certify through their consultants but if they are found erring by the pollution control boards their environmental clearance will be invalid,” a senior environment ministry official said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/environment-ministry-eases-norms-for-industry-expansion-101619809093806.html
01-05-2021||India||Panel formed to supervise oxygen production at Sterlite plant||Chennai: The Tamil Nadu government on Friday formed a monitoring committee to supervise Vedanta-owned Sterlite copper smelting plant in oxygen production as directed by the Supreme Court earlier this week. It is after three years that the plant, which was shut down in the wake of the 2018 anti-Sterlite protests and in which 13 people were killed in police firing, will reopen for oxygen production for three months. As per the top court’s order, Vedanta will not be allowed to access the copper and power plants in the precinct.The committee will be headed by Thoothukudi district collector Senthil Raj as chairperson. Raj has been directed to send a report every fortnight to the state government. Other members of the committee will comprise district superintendent of police S Jeyakumar, sub-collector, district environmental engineer of Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB), Joseph Pellarimine Anton Soris, deputy chief chemist of Thoothukudi Thermal Power Station and two environmental experts who are yet be nominated.The oxygen plant will be run and managed by Vedanta Industries Limited as per the directions of the monitoring committee in compliance with environment and safety norms, a government order signed by additional chief secretary, Sandeep Saxena, read. The committee will be empowered to oversee the functioning of the oxygen plant as directed by the Supreme Court. It will decide on the number of persons to be permitted inside the premises to operate and manage the plant. The panel will also conduct a safety audit before the start of operations, and issue appropriate safety directions. Most importantly, the committee can engage with residents to ‘redress any legitimate concern in regard to the nature modalities for operating the oxygen plant on a stand-alone basis’.The state government had shut the company in May 2018 in the wake of large scale protests against pollution and health problems caused by the operations in the plant. On the 100th day of the protests, 13 civilians were killed in a police firing, an incident that is currently under probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation, and one-memberretired justice Aruna Jagadeesan committee. Despite the court’s latest order, local residents continue to protest over fears that the company may reopen the facility for copper smelting. The court order is applicable till July 31. Vedanta’s plea to resume full-fledged operations is pendingin the top court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/panel-formed-to-supervise-oxygen-production-at-sterlite-plant-101619809248777.html
01-05-2021||India||Kerala mulls full lockdown in worst-affected districts||Thiruvananthapuram: As coronavirus cases rise exponentially in Kerala, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday said complete lockdown might be imposed in some of the worst-affected districts from next Tuesday, if the situation continued like this. “The government is considering a lockdown in districts with high number of cases and TPR. We are closely monitoring the situation. It seems more curbs are needed,” Vijayan said. He added that during weekends, only essential services will be allowed throughout the state. Kerala reported 37,199 new Covid-19 cases on Friday with a test positivity rate (TPR) of 24.88%, taking the active caseload in the state to 303,733. Addressing a virtual press meet from Kannur, his native district, the CM said Kerala was not in a position to start vaccination for the 18 to 44 age group from May 1. “The state has limitations in this. We are facing an acute shortage. Since we are finding difficult to give second shot, it is better to postpone it (vaccination) till we get enough stocks,” he said. Though Kerala has decided to buy 10 million doses (7 million Covishield and 3 million Covaxin) from manufacturers, experts said it will take at least three months for the state to get vaccines. In three districts, more than 4,000 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported on Friday. They include Kozhikode 4,915, Ernakulam 4,642 and Thrissur 4,281 cases. The TRP was above 15% in 12 districts of the state, according to state health department. The government has also decided to set up oxygen war rooms in every district and directed district collectors to monitor the stock and report to the state control room. The CM said the state has enough stock, but logistics of distribution will have to be monitored closely. Meanwhile, the Kerala High Court on Friday observed that situation in the state was “really worrying” and directed the government to impose restrictions strictly on counting day on May 2 and cut down the cost of treatment in private hospitals. The court gave the direction while hearing a plea requesting affordable universal rate for Covid-19 treatment. The court also observed that some private hospitals were charging exorbitantly and asked the government to discuss it with private hospital managements and make the same affordable. The court cited the experience of a Covid-19 patient, who was treated at a private hospital and forced to pay through his nose. The court said the patient commented that he could defeat Covid-19, not the hospital bill. With cases soaring exorbitantly, RT-PCR tests were affected in many private laboratories. Last week, the government slashed price of tests from ₹1,700 to ₹500. The government took the decision after the price reduction of ICMR-approved test kits. But many labs said they will incur heavy loss if they won’t get bulk tests. Testing in many small towns was affected because to this. The state has been reporting over 30,000 cases in the last four days. It also reported 49 deaths in last 24 hours, taking total fatalities to 5,308. Despite mounting cases, the only solace for the state was the low death rate, which was below 0.4, lowest in the country, health ministry statistics show.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-mulls-full-lockdown-in-worst-affected-districts-101619809188790.html
01-05-2021||India||CM: Drones to help deliver medicines, sanitise B’luru||Bengaluru: Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Friday inaugurated an initiative to use drones to sanitise containment zones as well as deliver medicine and essential goods to people affected by Covid-19. Talking to reporters, the CM said, “During these difficult times, it is very important to supply timely delivery of emergency medicines and Covid vaccines. I’m happy for the first time in the country, drones are ready supplying medicines, and also for sanitising public places (in Bengaluru).”The drones with a capacity to ferry 35-40 kg of materials can be used for delivering medicines and essential goods besides sanitising the areas. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) recently granted the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) a conditional exemption for testing the feasibility of drones in delivering vaccines. A task force led by member of Parliament from Bengaluru Central PC Mohan has tied up with a start-up Garuda Aerospace for the purpose. “For the first time in India, drone delivery of vaccines will undergo feasibility analysis and field trials in Karnataka. If successful, this could be a breakthrough in ensuring Covid-19 vaccines reach remote villages in Karnataka and geographically isolated locations across India,” Mohan said. BBMP special commissioner Rajendran Cholan said that automated robots have the ability to eliminate human contact in the entire distribution process. “Front line workers who transport Vaccines from one location to another could themselves be carriers of the virus,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-drones-to-help-deliver-medicines-sanitise-bluru-101619809069377.html
01-05-2021||India||Cong makes gains in local body elections||BengaluruThe Congress on Friday made significant gains in the Urban Local Body (ULB) elections held across several districts in Karnataka that has bolstered the party’s confidence ahead of the results of three bypolls on Sunday.According to the state election commission, of the 265 wards in 10 ULBs that went to polls, the Congress won 121, claiming six ULBs. The Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S) got control of two ULBs after winning 66 wards in total. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) managed to win 57 wards in total and control of only one ULB. The results in Bidar appeared to be heading towards a hung verdict.The results come as an embarrassment to the ruling party in the state, BJP, which has spent the better portion of the last two years in office trying to douse one crisis after another, including dissent within its own ranks, sex-scandal involving a former cabinet minister, shortage of funds and alleged mishandling of the Covid-19 pandemic, which continues to tighten its grip on the state and its capital, Bengaluru.“The people of the state have started to put their confidence in us,” DK Shivakumar, president of Karnataka Congress, said on Friday.“Congress has won 7 out of the 10 Urban Local Bodies that went to polls. BJP has won only 1. I thank the people of Karnataka for placing their confidence in the Congress Party & punishing the BJP for its misrule. Overall, Congress won 119 seats, while BJP won just 56 & JD(S) 67,” Shivakumar said in a twitter post on Friday.Senior Congress leader and former chief minister Siddaramaiah said the results showed that the BJP has lost the confidence of the people and the government “continues to toy with lives even during the pandemic”. He added that the people have taught the BJP a lesson through these elections.The poor result in these polls adds to the challenges of the BJP under the leadership of BS Yediyurappa, and is likely to add to his troubles, including calls for his ouster. The BJP could win just one ULB in Madikeri of Kodagu district, while it has to face embarrassment even in two ULBs in Yediyurappa’s home district of Shivamogga. The party lost both Thirthahalli and Bhadravati ULBs in Shivamogga district. In Thirthahalli, the Congress won nine out of 15 wards while the BJP could win only six. Likewise, in Bhadravathi, the Congress won 18 out of the 34 wards while the BJP managed just four and the JD(S) won 11.Meanwhile, the BJP tried to downplay the loss in the ULB.“We lost some crucial seats in Ballari, Bhadravathi, Beluru and Bidar…,” Ravi Kumar, member of the Karnataka Legislative Council and State General Secretary of the BJP said. He added that the party’s attention to these ULBs might have come down. Kumar, however, added that results of ULB polls will have no impact on the outcome of the three bypolls on Sunday. The results of Belagavi parliamentary seat, Basvakalyan and Maski assembly seats will be announced on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-makes-gains-in-local-body-elections-101619809068801.html
01-05-2021||India||Vaccine shortage stalls K’taka drive||BengaluruVaccination for people above 18 years of age will not take place from Saturday in Karnataka as the state was yet to receive jabs, health minister K Sudhakar said on Friday.“The official news is that they (Serum Institute of India) are still not prepared to give it (Covishield) to us from tomorrow as it was scheduled. That is why we are requesting the people of Karnataka, those who are above 18 years and up to 44 years, to refrain from going to hospitals thinking that you will be vaccinated tomorrow,” the minister told reporters on Friday.Chief minister BS Yediyurappa also said that the vaccination drive will be delayed. “Our Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar has said clearly that the vaccine has not been supplied yet. We will vaccinate people once it arrives,” Yediyurappa told reporters in Bengaluru on Friday.The statement came a day before the scheduled commencement of vaccination for 18-44 age group, as announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Karnataka was quick to order 10 million doses of Covishield from Pune-based Serum Institute of India, valued at ₹400 crore.Karnataka reported its highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases with 48,296 new infections reported on Friday, which takes the state’s active case count to 382,690. Positivity rate also touched a new high with 25.44%, according to the daily bulletin of the state health department. Bengaluru, the worst hit district in the state, accounted for 26,756 new cases, taking its active case count to 259,058. Bengaluru also accounted for 93 out of the 217 fatalities reported in a day.Karnataka, like other states in the country, is depended on vaccination to reduce the severity of the Covid-19 infection, which would mean that though the infection was likely to spread, the number of persons requiring hospitalisation would be reduced.While Karnataka continues to be among the top five states in terms of absolute number of vaccinations, data shows that most of it comprises of only those who have been administered the first dose. In Bengaluru, little over 10% of its population, of around 12 million, has been vaccinated so far. Bengaluru has so far administered around 1,767,490 doses (first and second combined).According to government data, out of the 9,363,124 vaccinations so far, the first dose accounts for 8,050,816 while the second dose accounts for just 1,530,866.The BS Yediyurappa-led state government relapsed into announcing lockdown-like restrictions across the state and its capital, Bengaluru, as a measure to contain the surge of Covid-19 cases and ease the pressure on its already overflowing hospitals and crematoriums. The 14-day restrictions that came into force from Tuesday night, has barely had any impact on the surge, data shows.Experts said the reason for the surge despite the lockdown-like restrictions is because people were already infected and now are forced to stay home and isolate themselves, increasing the risk of spreading it to others in the family or close circles. “The reason a lockdown was necessary was because you have to reduce the quantum of cases to a level which the health systems can manage. Currently, there is severe strain on the health system that has to be reduced,” Giridhara R Babu, epidemiologist and professor at the Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI) had told Hindustan Times. Most of Bengaluru’s hospitals are overflowing with patients and hundreds waiting outside in the hope of admissions. The lines outside crematoriums have also increased exponentially as the government scrambles to allot open spaces to cremate bodies. The waiting times at crematoriums have gone up to over 16 hours or more and families continue to expose themselves to the risk of contracting the virus while bidding farewell to their loved ones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccine-shortage-stalls-k-taka-drive-101619809008819.html
01-05-2021||India||SC seeks govt reply on plea against sedition||The Supreme Court on Friday agreed to examine the constitutional validity of the penal law on sedition, which, a plea filed in the matter claimed, is often used to stifle dissent and valid criticism against government functionaries. A bench, headed by justice Uday U Lalit, sought a response from Centre on a plea challenging the constitutional validity of sedition law while also calling for assistance of attorney general KK Venugopal considering the significance of the matter. The bench, which included justices Indira Banerjee and K M Joseph, issued notices while hearing the petition filed by two journalists and argued by senior counsel Colin Gonsalves, who challenged the validity of Section 124-A of the Indian Penal Code, 1860, which penalises the crime of sedition punishable with either imprisonment ranging from three years to a lifetime, a fine, or both. The petition, filed by Kishorechandra Wangkhemcha and Kanhaiya Lal Shukla - working in Manipur and Chhattisgarh, respectively, said Section 124-A infringed on the fundamental right to freedom of speech and expression which is guaranteed under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution. The journalists said that they were charged with sedition for their comments, on the social networking website Facebook, in which they sought to question certain policies and actions of the governments in the states and at the Centre. “There is frequent phenomenon of misuse, misapplication and abuse of Section 124-A since 1962...The sections of sedition have been repealed in comparative post-colonial democratic jurisdictions around the world. While India calls itself a ‘democracy’, throughout the democratic world the offence of sedition has been condemned as undemocratic, undesirable and unnecessary,” the plea stated. Citing the Supreme Court’s decision to uphold the validity of the law in 1962 in the case of Kedar Nath Singh Vs State of Bihar, the petitioners said that the court may have been correct in its finding nearly six decades ago, but the law no longer passed constitutional muster. India’s sedition law was introduced by the British in 1870 but the Constituent Assembly decided to drop it from the Constitution in 1948. The word “sedition” disappeared from the Constitution when it was adopted on November 26, 1949 and Article 19(1)(a) gave absolute freedom of speech and expression. Section 124A, however, stayed in the Indian Penal Code. In 1951, Jawaharlal Nehru brought in the first amendment of the Constitution to limit the freedom under Article 19(1)(a) and enacted Article 19(2) to empower the State to put curbs in the form of “reasonable restrictions” on the right to free speech. Through the 1962 judgment in Kedar Nath case, however, a constitution bench upheld the validity of the sedition law under the IPC and also defined the scope of sedition. The constitution bench held that Section 124A only penalised words that reveal an intent or tendency to disturb law and order or that seem to incite violence. This definition has been taken as precedent for all matters pertaining to Section 124A ever since. According to the data from the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), cases of sedition and under the stringent UAPA for terror cases showed a rise in 2019, but only 3% of the sedition cases resulted in convictions. The year 2019 saw a 25% increase in the number of sedition cases and a 41% increase in arrests over the previous year. A total of 93 cases of sedition were reported in 2019, with 96 arrests and charge sheets filed in 76 cases, as against 70 cases, 56 arrests and 27 chargesheets the previous year. The ministry of home affairs (MHA), in a written reply in February, informed the Rajya Sabha that out of the 96 people arrested for sedition in 2019, only two were convicted for the crime, while 29 were acquitted. Investigations and trials are ongoing in the rest of the cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-seeks-govt-reply-on-plea-against-sedition-101619808648847.html
01-05-2021||India||India stresses on boosting O2 supplies in talks with US||New Delhi : As US support for India’s response to a devastating second wave of Covid-19 infections began flowing in on Friday, external affairs minister S Jaishankar emphasised the need to strengthen oxygen supplies and expand vaccine production. These issues figured in a phone conversation between Jaishankar and his American counterpart Antony Blinken. The two discussed India’s requirements to address the Covid-19 situation and reviewed the supply of equipment and materials by the US. They spoke hours after the first of three special US flights carrying supplies, including hundreds of oxygen cylinders, landed in New Delhi on Friday morning. Two more emergency flights are expected by May 3 in line with US President Joe Biden’s pledge to help India counter a brutal second wave of infections. “Our discussions focussed on Indian requirements to address the Covid challenge more effectively,” Jaishakar said in a tweet. “Reviewed the flow of equipment and material from the US. Highlighted the importance of strengthening oxygen supply, expanding vaccine production and increasing Remdesivir supply. Appreciated the forthcoming response of the US in this regard,” he added. The Indian government is focused on efforts to ramp up the production and delivery of oxygen to healthcare facilities across the country. A severe shortage of oxygen has been blamed for many deaths during the second wave. Blinken reaffirmed the strength of the US-India partnership in the face of the pandemic and expressed his “appreciation for Indian assistance in America’s time of need”, state department spokesperson Ned Price said. Blinken also noted the outpouring of support from US industries, non-governmental institutions and private citizens for Covid-19 relief efforts in India. “The secretary offered condolences and noted our concern for those who have lost friends and loved ones during this difficult period,” Price said. The first tranche of US relief materials was ferried in a C-5M Super Galaxy, one of the largest strategic airlift aircraft, and the supplies sent from Travis Air Force Base included 423 oxygen cylinders and regulators donated by the state of California, and 960,000 rapid diagnostic tests and 100,000 N95 masks provided by USAID. “A strategic partnership of global significance! Our healthcare partnership can help effectively tackle the global pandemic. Deeply appreciate gift of 423 oxygen cylinders with regulators and other medical supplies from the U.S.A.,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi tweeted. The US military’s transportation command played a key role in arranging the flight. The second emergency relief shipment, being sent in a C-17 Globemaster aircraft, will include oxygen-related equipment, diagnostic kits, masks and pulse oximeters. The initial emergency assistance from the US will include a total of 1,100 oxygen cylinders, 1,700 oxygen concentrators, multiple large-scale oxygen generation units to support up to 20 patients each and additional mobile units to target specific shortages. A team of US experts will support oxygen generation units by working on the ground alongside Indian personnel. The support will also include raw materials for the Covishield vaccine that the US has re-directed from its own order of manufacturing supplies. These materials will allow India to make more than 20 million doses of Covid-19 vaccine, the White House said. Biden had pledged the support of the US during a phone conversation with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday. The US relief supplies began flowing in shortly after support packages from Russia and member states of the European Union (EU), part of a global effort to help India cope with record-breaking infections that have surged past the 350,000-mark over the past several days. Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla has said support is expected from more than 40 countries, mostly oxygen-related equipment and critical medicines, to strengthen India’s response to an “unprecedented second wave” of infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-stresses-on-boosting-o2-supplies-in-talks-with-us-101619808588846.html
01-05-2021||India||US to restrict travel from India over Covid-19 starting Tuesday||The US will restrict travel from India starting on May 4, the White House said Friday, citing a devastating rise in Covid-19 cases in the country and the emergence of potentially dangerous variants of the coronavirus.White House press secretary Jen Psaki said President Joe Biden's administration made the determination on the advice of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.“The policy will be implemented in light of extraordinarily high Covid-19 caseloads and multiple variants circulating in the India,” she said.With 386,452 new cases, India now has reported more than 18.7 million since the pandemic began, second only to the United States. The Health Ministry on Friday also reported 3,498 deaths in the last 24 hours, bringing the total to 208,330. Experts believe both figures are an undercount, but it’s unclear by how much.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-to-restrict-travel-from-india-over-covid-19-starting-tuesday-101619808236683.html
01-05-2021||India||700 govt school staff died on poll duty: UP teachers’ body writes to CM, EC||At least 700 state government school employees on panchayat poll duty succumbed to Covid in Uttar Pradesh this month, the state teachers’ union said on Friday, underlining the risk of flouting Covid norms during a devastating surge in infections. In letters to chief minister Yogi Adityanath and the state election commission (SEC), the Uttar Pradeshiya Prathmik Shikshak Sangh has listed the names of all deceased and said they were infected during training and poll duty. While the SEC did not comment on the association’s demand to defer counting, the state election commissioner Manoj Kumar on Friday asked district magistrates to ensure setting up of medical health desks at the counting centres with availability of medicines and deployment of doctors.The four-phase panchayat polls for around 850,000 local body seats were held between April 15 and 29. The state government has denied the allegations and said it has no proof that the teachers died during poll duty. The issue reached the Supreme Court on Friday when the apex court issued notices to the state government and SEC on a plea related to enforcement of Covid norms during counting of votes on Sunday. “What measures will the state election commission take for counting?” the court asked, and said it will hear the matter on Saturday. Earlier this week, the Allahabad high court also criticized the administration and SEC over violation of Covid protocol during the polls, and asked the poll body to answer why action shouldn’t be taken against election officials. In the letters, the Uttar Pradeshiya Prathmik Shikshak Sangh demanded that the counting of votes on Sunday be deferred. Association president Dinesh Chandra Sharma said that in the last three weeks, he sent several letters to the chief minister and SEC to defer elections as several lives were lost. The union chief said a maximum of 33 teachers died in Azamgarh district, 31 in Gorakhpur, 25 in Prayagraj and 20 each in Lucknow and Lakhimpur Kheri districts. “Many of these lives could have been saved had the SEC taken note of our April 12 letter in which I pointed out that Covid protocol was not being followed during training,” he said. The government denied the allegations. State minister of state (independent charge) for basic education, Satish Chandra Dwivedi, said it was wrong to say that the teachers on poll duty died of Covid. “There’s no specific audit done by basic education department about the number of teachers’ death…How do we know that teachers were not infected when they came for election duty? And how do we know that teachers did not get infected after returning from election duty ?” he said. “Government teachers alone were not doing election duty. There were people from other departments too. We don’t have any data of how teachers got infected and I don’t know how teachers’ association leader has prepared that list of 700 teachers and staff who succumbed to Covid,” the minister added. He further said if Sharma wrote to Adityanath and SEC, it was up to them to take a call on the demands. The Opposition criticized the government on the issue. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav demanded compensation of ₹50 lakh each for those who lost their lives . On April 22, primary and secondary government teachers jointly carried out an online campaign to air their grievances, alleging that many of their fellow teachers contracted Covid during training and poll duty. Among the teachers who died on poll duty was 28-year-old Ramesh Kumar Yadav. A primary school teacher, Yadav died of Covid on April 23 in Sultanpur.He was among the 69,000 assistant teachers who were appointed in phases. While 31,277 of them were appointed in October last year, another 36,950 were appointed in December. Some of them contracted the infection during poll training in April. Yadav’s condition worsened after election duty on April 19, said his eldest brother Suresh Kumar. “My brother passed away without getting his first salary,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/700-govt-school-staff-died-on-poll-duty-up-teachers-body-writes-to-cm-ec-101619808408780.html
01-05-2021||India||Forces granted emergency financial powers amid Covid crisis||NEW DELHI: Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Friday granted emergency financial powers to the military to strengthen and accelerate its efforts to deal with the crisis posed by the coronavirus disease pandemic even as the Indian Navy dispatched its warships to foreign shores to bring back liquid oxygen filled cryogenic containers. “These (financial) powers will help formation commanders to establish and operate quarantine facilities/hospitals and undertake procurement/repair of equipment/items/material/stores, besides provisioning of various services and works required to support the ongoing effort against the pandemic,” the defence ministry said in a statement. While vice chiefs of armed forces including Chief of Integrated Defence Staff to the Chairman Chiefs of Staff Committee (CISC) and army commanders (and their equivalent ranks in the navy and air force) have been given “full powers”, corps commanders and area commanders have been delegated powers to spend up to ₹50 lakh each. While the statement did not elaborate on financial powers given to the vice chiefs and others, ministry officials said “full powers” implied that finances should not come in the way of mounting a robust response to the pandemic. Division commanders/sub area commanders and their equivalent ranks in the navy and air force have been delegated powers to spend up to ₹20 lakh per case. Such powers were sanctioned last year too when the pandemic first broke out. “These powers have been devolved initially for a period of three months, from May 1 to July 31, 2021,” the statement said. These powers are in addition to the emergency powers granted to the military’s medical officers last week. On April 23, Singh granted emergency buying powers to senior military doctors as part of the ministry’s overall plan to fight the outbreak. While the heads of the medical wings of the three services were given powers to make purchases worth ₹5 crore, doctors holding the ranks of major general and brigadier were allowed to make procurements worth ₹3 crore and ₹2 crore, respectively. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has reviewed the military’s preparations for Covid relief thrice this week in one-on-one meetings with the chief of defence staff, the Indian Air force chief and the army chief. As part of the steps being taken by the armed forces to fight the outbreak, the navy on Friday launched Operation Samudra Setu-II and dispatched warships to Bahrain, Thailand and Singapore for shipment of oxygen filled cryogenic containers to India. “Two warships, INS Kolkata and INS Talwar. have entered port of Manama, Bahrain, for transporting 40MT of liquid oxygen to Mumbai. INS Jalashwa is enroute to Bangkok and INS Airavat to Singapore for similar missions,” navy spokesperson Commander Vivek Madhwal said.  IAF is also making a significant contribution in the fight against Covid by transporting much-needed empty oxygen containers to filling stations across the country. It has been involved in ferrying empty cryogenic oxygen containers to filling centres in India from different domestic locations and even abroad to help hospitals tide over the oxygen crisis. IAF chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria told PM Narendra Modi on April 28 that he has ordered 24x7 readiness of the IAF’s entire heavy-lift fleet and substantial numbers of its medium-lift fleet to operate in a hub and spoke model to swiftly meet all Covid-related tasking across the country and overseas. “As of April 29, IAF has carried out 23 sorties from abroad, airlifting 39 oxygen containers with a capacity of 670 MT. Within the country, it carried out 124 sorties, airlifting 87 containers with a capacity of 1,798 MT. On Friday, IAF carried out 10 domestic sorties to help meet oxygen requirements,” said an IAF official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/forces-granted-emergency-financial-powers-amid-covid-crisis-101619808289932.html
01-05-2021||India||MP govt orders all district collectors to trace, quarantine Kumbh returnees amid case spike||Bhopal: Madhya Pradesh on Friday ordered all districts to trace people who visited the Mahakumbh in Haridwar, test them for Covid and quarantine them, after a similar exercise in Vidisha district showed that 60 out of 61 devotees contracted the infection. Vidisha’s chief medical and health officer BS Ahirwar said the administration traced 61 people who returned from the Kumbh in Gyaraspur and found 60 of them were infected. At least 9.1 million people visited the Kumbh this year, which was criticised for violating Covid norms. “It is surprising that 99% people returned from Kumbh in Gyaraspur area have been tested positive. More than two dozen people who have returned from Kumbh are yet to be traced. It is a matter of concern as they could be super spreader of the infection,” said Ahirwar. In the district, 71 Kumbh returnees have tested positive in total and 313 other devotees have been quarantined. In all, the district has posted 3241 cases in the past two weeks. Madhya Pradesh posted 12,400 cases and 97 deaths on Friday, taking its tally to 466915 and 5616, respectively. The state home department asked district collectors to speed up the tracing of Kumbh returnees and their contacts and quarantine them for 14 days. They will be given entry in the village and urban locality only after an RT-PCR test, said an officer of a home department, who didn’t wish to be named. “Most of the districts are yet to trace people and share data especially in urban area. After this Vidisha incident, the collectors have been asked to create awareness and hold a campaign to request people to share information of Kumbh returnees and to quarantine them compulsorily,” said additional chief secretary (home), Rajesh Rajora. But some people opposed the move. “We are absolutely fine and came back 10 days ago but now the administration are forcing us to undergo quarantine. This is an illogical step. Why only us, they should do the same with all those who travelled in the past few days.” said Rajesh Jat, resident of Sirohi village of the district.The state transport department has also suspended bus services between Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh. A second officer in the home department said it was not easy to trace people and quarantine them. “Many people are not willing to tell that they came from Kumbh. Only after testing positive, they say so. They are afraid of quarantine outside the village,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-govt-orders-all-district-collectors-to-trace-quarantine-kumbh-returnees-amid-case-spike-101619808288762.html
01-05-2021||India||Will treat action against pleas on social media as contempt: SC||New Delhi: A clampdown on messages for help on social media is the “worst way” to deal with the Covid-19 crisis, said the Supreme Court on Friday, warning all state governments against taking action against people using online platforms to make desperate appeals for oxygen, essential medicines, and other help. Any such action by governments or state police would be treated as a contempt of court, the top court added.“It is a matter of grave concerns to us. If citizens communicate their grievances either on the Internet or on social media, there cannot be a clampdown. We don’t want a clampdown of information. That’s the worst way of dealing with a crisis,” observed a bench headed by justice Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud.The bench, which included justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat, gave examples of various social media posts, asking for help when somebody needed an oxygen cylinder, or a bed in a hospital, or the drug remdesivir.“To act against someone who is seeking help for oxygen or a medicine is against the basis precept,” said the bench, adding it wanted to caution all the state governments and their director generals of police (DGPs) against any action against those seeking help. “Let this message go very clearly to all states and their DGPs, we will treat this as a contempt of this court of they want a clampdown on communication. Let everyone understand that we are not projecting anyone in a bad light but looking out for help,” remarked the court. The bench concluded its discussion on the issue by making it unequivocal: “Let information flow freely. Let us hear the voices of our citizens and not a clampdown on them.” Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who appeared for the Central government in the matter, agreed with the court, saying there could not be any action people who were already in distress, asking for help. The court’s observations assume significance in the wake of a recent case lodged in Uttar Pradesh’s Amethi district against a 26-year-old man for allegedly spreading “false information” on social media over the supply of oxygen. Shashank Yadav made an appeal on Twitter for an oxygen cylinder for his critically ill grandfather, which the police later claimed was false. Earlier this week, Yadav was booked under the charges of the Epidemic Act and the Indian Penal Code for spreading false information with an intent to create panic in society. Yadav was taken to a police station for questioning, but was later let off. In the backdrop of this case, activist Saket Gokhale this week moved the Allahabad high court seeking to restrain the UP government from taking coercive action against such persons who appealed for oxygen supply and other medical assistance on social media. “Filing criminal cases against families of critical patients issuing SOS calls for oxygen on social media is a gross misuse of the powers of the state and is illegal coercive action that is being taken to maintain the image of the government and to clamp down on any criticism of their handling of the Covid-19 pandemic and to present a fake picture that everything is hunky dory in the state,” stated Gokhale’s petition, which is yet to come up for a hearing before the high court. “There is no clampdown or restriction on information, grievances communication on social media in the state. In fact, the state government’s various departments such as the police and others are tracking social media and also extending help, rescue, assistance. However, the state government will act on such people who will spread misinformation, ill-intent panic triggering or rumour-mongering,” said a senior UP government officer requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-treat-action-against-pleas-on-social-media-as-contempt-sc-101619808169250.html
01-05-2021||India||Amid soaring Covid-19 cases, Kerala mulls lockdown in worst-hit districts||As Covid-19 virus cases rise in Kerala, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said lockdown will be imposed in some of the worst-affected districts from next Tuesday if the situation persists. The chief minister’s comments came during a virtual press meet. “The government is considering a lockdown in districts with high number of cases and TPR. We are closely monitoring the situation. It seems more curbs are needed,” he said, adding in the weekend also only essential services will be allowed throughout the state. On Friday, the state reported another high with 37,199 fresh cases and a test positivity rate (TPR) of 24.88 per cent. Active caseload also crossed three lakh (3,03,733). Vijayan said the state is not in a position to start the vaccination drive for the 18-45 age group from May 1. “The state has limitations. We are facing an acute shortage. Since we are finding it difficult to give the second shot, it is better to postpone it till we get enough stocks,” he said.Though the state has decided to buy 10 million doses from manufacturers (7mn Covishield and 3 mn Covaxin), experts said it will take at least three months for the state to get this.The daily caseload crossed the 4000-mark in three districts - Kozhikode 4915, Ernakulam 4642 and Thrissur 4281 cases. Except for two, in 12 districts the TPR remained above 15 per cent. The state government has also decided to set up oxygen war rooms in every district and directed district collectors to monitor the vaccine stock and report to the state control room. The CM said the state has enough stock but logistics of distribution will have to be monitored closely.Meanwhile, the Kerala High Court said the situation in the state was worrying and directed the government to impose strict restrictions on the counting of votes on May 2 and cut down the cost of treatment in private hospitals. The court gave this direction while hearing a plea requesting an affordable universal rate for Covid-19 treatment. The court observed that some private hospitals were charging exorbitantly and asked the government to discuss it with private hospital managements and make it affordable. The court also cited the experience of a Covid-19 patient who was treated at a private hospital and was forced to pay through his nose. The court said the patient commented that he could defeat Covid-19, not the hospital bill. With cases soaring, in many private laboratories, RT-PCR tests were affected. Last week, the government had slashed the price of tests from ₹1,700 to ₹500. The government took this decision after the price reduction of ICMR-approved test kits. But many labs said they will incur heavy losses if they won’t get bulk tests. Testing in many small towns was affected due to this. The state has been reporting over 30,000 cases in the last four days. It also reported 49 deaths in the last 24 hours, taking total fatalities to 5,308. Despite mounting cases, the only solace for the state is its low death rate of the state which is below 0.4, the lowest in the country, health ministry statistics show.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-soaring-covid-19-cases-kerala-mulls-lockdown-in-worst-hit-districts-101619807749879.html
01-05-2021||India||Adieu Soli Sorabjee, jurist, legal luminary, and jazz aficionado||Soli Sorabjee, 91, former attorney general of India, a staunch proponent of freedom of speech, and an eminent lawyer associated with a series of landmark judgments, died on Friday at a hospital in New Delhi.Sorabjee famously joined jurist Nani Palkhivala and veteran lawyer Fali S Nariman to fight the 1973 Keshavanand Bharti case in the Supreme Court that eventually led to the legal doctrine of “basic structure” of the Constitution. It was the only time a bench of 13 judges, the full strength of the apex court at that time, sat to decide a case. It was the longest heard case before the court -- 69 days from October 31, 1972, to March 23, 1973. The Bharati judgement, by a majority of 7:6, said amendments should not alter the “basic structure” of the Constitution, and has become the bedrock of Indian constitutional law.Sorabjee was the petitioner’s lawyer in the landmark SR Bommai case, which resulted in the Supreme Court’s 1994 verdict that held the power of the President to dismiss a state government is not absolute and subject to judicial review. He was also involved in the Prakash Singh case in which the top court directed the Centre to appoint the National Police Commission and paved the way for significant police reforms.In the 1984 anti-Sikh riots cases, Sorabjee worked with Citizen’s Justice Committee and took up cases pro bono for the victims. He also led the fight in the Maneka Gandhi case in which the Supreme Court expanded the meaning of personal liberty to mean life with dignity, and ruled against any arbitrary action not only of the executive but also through any legislative act.In 1997, Sorabjee was appointed as a special rapporteur on human rights in Nigeria. He later became a member of the United Nations Sub Commission on the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights, and went on chair the commission from 1998 to 2004. Since 1998, he was a member of the United Nations Sub Commission on Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities. Sorabjee also served from 2000 to 2006 as a member of the Permanent Court of Arbitration at the Hague.He was decorated with India’s second highest civilian honour, the Padma Vibhushan, in 2002.Jazz, his first loveKnown for his association with human rights cases, Sorabjee began his practice in 1953 at the Bombay high court. In 1971, the high court designated him as a senior counsel. He served as the solicitor general of India from 1977 to 1980 to became the country’s attorney general first from 1989 to 1990, and then from 1998 to 2004.But jazz, as Sorabjee would often say, was his first love.He developed an interest in jazz by a happy accident, Naresh Fernandes writes in his book on the history of jazz in Mumbai, Taj Mahal Foxtrot: The story of Bombay’s jazz age. The salesman at Rhythm House – a famous music shop that was set up in the late 1940s and shut shop a few years ago – gave Sorabjee a recording of Benny Goodman Trio’s “Tiger Rag” instead of Brahm’s “Hungarian Dance No. 5”, as asked for. “The first playing of the record had an electric effect, especially the sound of Benny’s clarinet and the feeling of spontaneity throughout the performance,” the book quotes Sorabjee.Sorabjee also began to take clarinet lessons from famous jazz musician Hal Green, and performed at amateur concerts. During the war years, he and a group of boys from his school, St Xavier’s High School at Dhobi Talao, would tune into Radio SEAC that would host jazz music shows. This group started what was the country’s first jazz magazine, Blue Rhythm, in 1952 (the magazine lasted a year).“We would listen to the greats, who made up what was called contemporary jazz in the 1960s like Miles Davis, John Coltrane, Dizzy Gillespie, and Duke Ellington. Not many know but Soli’s love for jazz started during his school days,” said former advertising executive Stanley Pinto, who was also a jazz pianist and hosted jazz concerts in then Calcutta in the 1970s and 80s.Though he stopped playing the clarinet because of breathing problems, Sorabjee believed jazz deeply influenced the way he practised law. He would say it helped him improvise as the situation demanded in court.Tributes pour inTributes started pouring in as the news of Sorabjee’s death broke. Prime Minister Narendra Modi called him an outstanding lawyer and intellectual.President Ram Nath Kovind said India has lost an “icon of its legal system”.Chief Justice of India NV Ramana said, “In his (Sorabjee) nearly 68-year long association with judicial world, he made immeasurable contribution in enriching the global jurisprudence of human rights and fundamental rights.”Attorney general KK Venug opal told HT, “He was one of the best constitutional lawyers. He was a strong defender of the fundamental rights. His parting is a great loss to the entire legal community and a big personal loss to me.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jurist-soli-sorabjee-succumbs-to-covid19-101619756987135.html
