02-05-2021||India||Tamil Nadu adds all-time high 20,768 new Covid-19 cases; 153 deaths||Tamil Nadu on Sunday reported an all-time high of 20,768 new COVID-19 cases pushing the caseload to 12,07,112 while the death toll rose to 14,346 with 153 fatalities.According to the Health department, recoveries mounted to 10,72,322 Sunday with 17,576 patients being discharged, leaving 1,20,444 active cases.The number of samples tested stood at 1,43,083, pushing the cumulative number of specimens examined so far to 2,29,56,942.Tamil Nadu had breached the 10,000 cases mark on April 18, by adding 10,723 new infections.The State capital constituted the major chunk of new cases accounting for 6,078 on Sunday, aggregating to 3,45,966 till date.The metropolis also leads in the number of fatalities with 4,820 deaths.Apart from Chennai reporting new infections in four digits, neighbouring Chengalpet district clocked 1,582 fresh cases, Coimbatore added 1,441 and Thiruvallur logged 1,049.Among the other districts, Madurai saw 880 fresh cases followed by Salem (582), Erode (549), Krishnagiri (503), Kancheepuram (495) and Kanyakumari (317).As many as 26 people who arrived from various destinations, including one passenger from the United Arab Emirates were among those who tested positive for the virus.Among the 153 deceased, 81 succumbed in private healthcare facilities, while the remaining were at government run hospitals.A 34-year old man from Krishnagiri was among the 40 to succumb to the virus without any pre-existing illnesses, the bulletin said.PTI VIJ SS PTI PTI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-adds-all-time-high-20-768-new-covid-19-cases-153-deaths-101619970175025.html
02-05-2021||India||Noida's first 100 Covid deaths in 343 days, next 100 in just 13 days: Data||Uttar Pradesh's Gautam Buddh Nagar district had recorded its first 100 Covid-19 deaths in a span of 343 days, while the next 100 came in just 13 days, according to official data.The district, adjoining Delhi, in western UP is one of the worst-hit places in the state during the pandemic with 237 deaths and 8,261 active coronavirus patients now.Gautam Buddh Nagar had recorded its first Covid-19 death on May 8, 2020 when a 60-year-old man, a resident of Sector 22 in Noida, had succumbed to the deadly virus, according to officials.The district had reached the grim milestone of 100 deaths on April 16, 2021 when two people had died due to Covid-19, according to the figures released on that day by the UP Health Department for a 24-hour period.However, the next 100 deaths came within two weeks for Gautam Buddh Nagar, which has been hit hard by second wave of the pandemic. The disease has claimed 13,162 lives in the state and 2.15 lakh across the country, as on Saturday.On April 29, the district recorded 11 fatalities that had pushed its death toll to 202, according to the official figures.Gautam Buddh Nagar is among 12 districts of UP which have a death toll of 200 or more.The other districts are Lucknow (1,858), Kanpur Nagar (1,191), Prayagraj (689), Varanasi (690), Meerut (517), Gorakhpur (446), Jhansi (294), Moradabad (242), Agra (245), Ghaziabad (246) and Bareilly (207), according to the official data on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/noidas-first-100-covid-deaths-in-343-days-next-100-in-just-13-days-data-101619961846572.html
02-05-2021||India||Supreme Court asks Centre to rectify Delhi oxygen issue by Monday night||The Supreme Court has asked the Centre to rectify the oxygen issue of Delhi hospitals within two days, on or before the midnight of May 3, 2021. In the order, released late on Sunday night, the bench of Justices DY Chandrachud, L Nageswara Rao and Ravindra Bharat ordered the Centre to create a buffer stock of oxygen along with all states from where oxygen can be used if the regular supply chain is disrupted due to any reason.The order was reserved on April 30, when the apex court raised several questions regarding the Centre's handling of the Covid-19 pandemic."We direct the Central Government in collaboration with the states to prepare a buffer stock of oxygen to be used for emergency purposes to ensure supply lines continue to function even in unforeseen circumstances. The location of the emergency stocks shall be decentralised so as to be immediately available if the normal supply chain is disrupted to any hospital for any reason. The emergency stocks shall be created within the next four days. The replenishment of the emergency stocks will also be monitored on a real-time basis through the virtual control room in active consultation with each state/UT," notes the Supreme Court order.During the hearing on April 30, the Supreme Court also asked the Centre whether there is any national policy on hospital admission. In its order issued on Sunday, the Apex Court asked the Centre to formulate a national policy on hospital admission, which has to be followed by state governments."Till the formulation of such a policy by the Central Government, no patient shall be denied hospitalization or essential drugs in any State/UT for lack of local residential proof of that State/UT or even in the absence of identity proof," reads the order.On Saturday, around 12 people, including a doctor, died at a private hospital in Delhi after the hospital ran out of oxygen. With the number of Covid-19 infections rising, the demand for oxygen has sharply gone up. But the situation in the Capital is particularly more precarious.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-gives-two-days-to-centre-to-rectify-delhi-oxygen-issue-101619975765181.html
02-05-2021||India||Assembly poll results vindicate stand of agitating farmers: Samyukta Kisan Morcha||Elated by the trends in assembly election results which showed BJP set to lose in West Bengal, Kerala and Tamil Nadu, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of agitating farmer unions, on Sunday said their campaign asking voters to "punish" the party stands vindicated.SKM members, who were seen distributing sweets to protestors camping at the Singhu Border, congratulated the people of West Bengal and other states for paying heed to their appeal. Farmers protesting the three central farm laws had campaigned against the BJP in Assam, West Bengal, Puducherry, Tamil Nadu and Kerala."Our campaign with state assembly voters asking them to punish BJP stands vindicated. BJP's efforts not to make citizens' livelihoods issues, such as the anti-farmer central agri laws and the anti-worker labour codes, as poll plank has clearly failed."We now appeal to farmers from all over India to strengthen their resistance and join the movement in greater numbers. This movement will continue to spread the democratic values that our Constitution espouses and will further strengthen itself till our demands are fulfilled," read a statement from the SKM.Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at three Delhi border points -- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur -- for over four months, demanding a repeal of the three agri reform laws enacted by the Centre in September last year.Clarifying that the ongoing farmers' agitation won't end until their demands are met, the farmers' union said it is time that the BJP listens to people's mandate in different states, which includes the sentiment of farmers, and immediately repeal the three agricultural laws and give legal guarantee to procurement at minimum support price."The government, instead of making peasants and workers their enemies, should fight against the corona pandemic and the livelihood and economic crises in the country," it added.The Centre says the new farm laws will free farmers from middlemen, giving them more options to sell their crops.The protesting farmers, however, say the laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of MSP and do away with the "mandi" (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assembly-poll-results-vindicate-stand-of-agitating-farmers-samyukta-kisan-morcha-101619974912112.html
02-05-2021||India||Corona curfew extended in Madhya Pradesh's Bhopal till May 10||The Madhya Pradesh government on Sunday extended 'corona curfew' in capital Bhopal till May 10, an official said.The curfew, in force since April 12 with extensions on April 19 and 26, was to end at 6am on Monday, he added."The corona curfew was extended in Bhopal and Berasia town till 6am on May 10 as per an order by district collector Avinash Lavaniya. Essential services and emergency travel are exempted from the curbs," the official informed.As on Saturday, Bhopal has a COVID-19 caseload of 91,456, including 742 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/corona-curfew-extended-in-madhya-pradesh-s-bhopal-till-may-10-101619962314658.html
02-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: UK foreign secretary says will help India with 'whatever they ask for' and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.UK’s Raab assures India help with ‘whatever they ask for’, says vaccine demand ‘hypothetical’UK foreign secretary Dominic Raab on Sunday said that Britain will help India with “whatever they ask for” amid speculations over vaccine donation. Read moreIPL: KL Rahul diagnosed with appendicitis, Agarwal to lead PBKS in his absencePunjab Kings have received a major blow for the remainder of the IPL after their captain KL Rahul was diagnosed with acute appendicitis and has been rushed to a hospital in Mumbai. Read moreSonu Sood, Nora Fatehi fight back tears as Bharti Singh remembers how she feared for Covid-19 positive mother's lifeBharti Singh was seen crying on stage as she spoke about the devastation caused by Covid-19 in India. She was on stage on Dance Deewane 3 when the incident happened. Read moreDelhi: Foreign diplomats seek oxygen, political war after Congress helpsOn May 1, the New Zealand High Commission in India tagged the Congress party's youth wing, seeking help for finding an oxygen cylinder. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-uk-foreign-secretary-says-will-help-india-with-whatever-they-ask-for-and-all-the-latest-news-101619968396570.html
02-05-2021||India||Chastening assembly poll results are SOS for Congress, Sonia's leadership necessary, says Ashwani Kumar||With the election results and trends showing Congress suffering defeats in Kerala and Assam again and faring poorly in West Bengal and Puducherry, Congress leader Ashwani Kumar said on Sunday that the "chastening election results" are an SOS for the Congress ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha elections and the need for demonstrable and purposive action to address the organisational and communication gaps was never more evident.Kumar, a former union minister, told ANI that Congress must secure internal cohesiveness and establish an emotional connect with the people to to retain its resilience and relevance in national politics."The chastening election results are an SOS for the Congress ahead of the 2024 Lok sabha elections. The need for demonstable and purposive action to address the organisational and communication gaps was never more evident. For Congress to retain its resilience and relevance in national politics it must secure internal cohesiveness and establish an emotional connect with the people.It needs to work on its messaging and accurately assess the barometer of popular sensitivities," he said.He said that at the present juncture and considering the political realities, Sonia Gandhi's "unifying leadership of the party is necessary"."The foremost task is to keep the party together through an extensive reach-out problem and to enlarge the network of political alliances while involving all leaders in rejuvenating the party," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chastening-assembly-poll-results-are-sos-for-congress-sonia-s-leadership-necessary-says-ashwani-kumar-101619965558986.html
02-05-2021||India||Maharashtra sees decline in Covid-19 cases, reports 56,647 infections||Maharashtra on Sunday reported 56,647 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases and 669 deaths with which the total number of cases in the state reached 4,722,401, while the death toll reached 70,284. A total of 257,470 people were tested in the state in 24 hours, the bulletin showed and the total number of recoveries in the state stood at 39,81,658 as 51,356 were discharged on Sunday.On Saturday, Maharashtra had reported 63,282 new Covid-19 cases and 802 deaths which was a slight rise from the Friday when the state reported 62,919 fresh Covid-19 cases.The capital city of Mumbai reported 3,629 cases on Sunday and 79 deaths with which the total number of cases in the city stood at 655,997 and the death toll stood at 13,294. The city had reported 3,897 Covid-19 cases on Saturday and 90 deaths.Maharashtra, which is the worst affected state due to the second wave of Covid-19, has been consistently reporting a spike in numbers since the month of February. The state is currently in lockdown-like restrictions till May 15 enforced to stem the spread of the viral infection. The curbs on movement of people and other activities were first imposed early this month and were to initially continue till May 1 but were further tightened on April 14 and then extended last week till May 15.However, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday said the state government will not impose a stricter lockdown as the existing curbs had resulted in helping the state fight with the second wave of the pandemic effectively. "We have been able to contain the spread of Covid-19 due to restrictions and lockdown. Our estimate was that there might be 10 lakh positive active patients till now, but there are 7 lakh such cases," chief minister Thackeray said.India on Sunday reported 392,488 new Covid-19 cases and a record 3,689 related fatalities which pushed the infection count to 19,557,457 and the death toll to 215,542 respectively, according to the Union health ministry's dashboard at 8am. With this, the active cases in the country stood at 3,349,644, thus comprising 17.13 per cent of the total infections while the recovery rate dropped to 81.77 per cent as the number of people who recuperated from the viral disease reached 15,992,271.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-reports-56-647-new-covid-19-cases-669-deaths-101619964822323.html
02-05-2021||India||Delhi receives second 'Oxygen Express'; third on way from Angul||The second 'Oxygen Express' for Delhi arrived here on Sunday with 120 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen and a third such train has begun its journey for the national capital from Angul in Odisha, the railway ministry said.The train from Angul is carrying 30.86 tonnes of oxygen, it said.The second wave of the coronavirus has put huge pressure on the country's health system, with hospitals facing shortage of oxygen, medicines and equipment to treat Covid-19 patients, besides beds.Watch: ‘Oxygen Express’ arrives in Delhi with 120MT liquid medical oxygenThe railways has delivered 1,094 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen in 74 tankers to various states across the country since April 19, the ministry said on Sunday.Nineteen 'Oxygen Express' trains have already completed their journey and two more loaded 'Oxygen Express' trains, carrying around 61.46 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) in four tankers, are on way to their destinations, it said."It is the Indian Railways endeavour to deliver as much LMO as possible in the shortest time possible to the requesting states. Delhi received its second 'Oxygen Express' today carrying 120 tonnes of LMO, third 'Oxygen Express' has already begun its journey from Angul to Delhi carrying 30.86 tonnes of LMO," the ministry said.Telangana has also received its first 'Oxygen Express' carrying 63.6 tonnes of LMO from Angul, it said, adding that more 'Oxygen Express' trains to Haryana and Delhi carrying 61.46 tonnes of LMO are on their way.Of the over 1,094 tonnes of LMO delivered, Maharashtra got 174 tonnes, Uttar Pradesh got 430.51 tonnes, Madhya Pradesh got 156.96 tonnes, Delhi got 190 tonnes, Haryana 79 tonnes and Telangana got 63.6 tonnes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-receives-second-oxygen-express-third-on-way-from-angul-101619962190657.html
02-05-2021||India||Covid-19: Oxygen Express carrying 30.86 MT oxygen left for Delhi from Odisha||Railway Minister Piyush Goyal on Sunday informed that the Oxygen Express carrying 30.86 metric tonnes (MT) of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) for Covid-19 patients has departed for the national capital from Odisha.In an effort of fulfilling the rising demand for oxygen across the country due to a rampant surge in Covid-19 cases, the Railways launched 'Oxygen Express' to deliver medical oxygen to various states.In a tweet, the Railway Minister said, "Oxygen Express to Delhi has departed from Angul, Odisha carrying 30.86 MT of oxygen for Covid-19 patients.""Railways is playing a crucial role in our collective fight against Covid-19 by transporting oxygen from oxygen plants to states across," he added in his tweet.Delhi received its first supply of LMO via train on April 27 (Tuesday). The Oxygen Express carried 64.55 tonnes of medical oxygen to the national capital from Jindal Steel Plant in Raigarh, Chhattisgarh.Another Oxygen Express is said to bring 120 MT of LMO to the national capital in six tankers from Durgapur, West Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-oxygen-express-carrying-30-86-mt-oxygen-left-for-delhi-from-odisha-101619960278615.html
02-05-2021||India||Kerala adds over 31,000 fresh Covid-19 cases; 49 related deaths||Kerala recorded 31,959 Covid-19 cases on Sunday, with the total caseload mounting to 16 lakh as the active cases soared to 3.39 lakh, the state government said.As many as 16,296 people have been cured of the infection, taking the total recoveries to 12,93,590, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan told reporters in Kannur.In the last 24 hours ending 2 PM, as many as 1,12,625 samples have been tested taking the Test Positivity Rate (TPR) to 28.37 per cent.So far, 1,60,58,633 samples have been tested.While Kozhikode accounted for 4,238 cases, the highest, four districts--Thrissur, Ernakulam, Thiruvananthapuram and Malappuram- accounted for over 3,000 infections on Sunday.The toll has mounted to 5,405 with 49 more deaths.Of the positive cases,81 are health workers, 266 had come from outside the state and 29,700 were infected through contact.At least 7,24,611 people are under observation in various districts, including 26,169 in hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-adds-over-31-000-fresh-covid-19-cases-49-related-deaths-101619960489575.html
02-05-2021||India||In Assam, CAA failed to hurt BJP, Cong did not benefit by opposing it||When anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) protests rocked Assam in December 2019 and five people were killed in police firing, it appeared the issue could damage the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led coalition’s hopes of retaining power in the state. The results of the assembly elections on Sunday belied the dent the issue was expected to cause to the party’s base in the state. The BJP is set to form the government for the second consecutive time in Assam. It had won two seats till 6:30 pm and was leading in 54 out of the total 126 seats. Its allies, Asom Gana Parishad, and United People’s Party, Liberal, were ahead on 11 and eight seats. Assam Jatiya Parishad (AJP) and Raijor Dal, the two parties formed as an outcome of the anti-CAA protests, managed to win only one seat.The Congress took a strong anti-CAA stance and promised it will not implement the legislation in Assam if it came to power. It was part of the party’s five guarantees to the voters. The Congress was leading on 28 seats and its ally All India United Democratic Front on 14 and Bodoland People’s Front in 2.The BJP appeared to be in a dilemma regarding the CAA and the National Register of Citizens (NRC) in Assam and West Bengal, where the Trinamool Congress (TMC) is set to sweep back to power. It said the CAA cannot be changed through state legislation and did not commit to its implementation in Assam. In Bengal, the BJP said it will implement the CAA if it comes to power there. The implementation of the CAA in Assam would mean automatic citizenship for non-Muslims from Bangladesh, who came after the 1971 war, without going through the tedious NRC process.In 2019, the Parliament passed the legislation providing automatic citizenship for non-Muslims from Bangladesh, Pakistan, and Afghanistan, who came to India before December 31, 2014. The Assam Accord provides citizenship to migrants after March 25, 1971, as the cut-off date. The difference in the time frame triggered apprehension about a fresh influx of undocumented Bangladeshis into Assam. The Centre is yet to notify the rules to implement the amended law. In March, a Parliamentary committee gave the home ministry another six months to notify the rules.The updated NRC in Assam was released in August 2019 and excluded 1.9 of the nearly 33 million people, who applied to be included in it. The BJP has rejected the list calling it faulty. It has maintained many genuine citizens got left out while illegal foreigners got included. In its manifesto for this election, BJP committed to preparing a corrected NRC to protect genuine citizens and detect undocumented infiltrators to protect Assam’s civilisation.BJP leader Pabitra Margherita said the CAA did not have any impact on the polls. “Our party’s stand on the issue has always been clear that we support the legislation. On the other hand, the Congress, AJP, and Raijor Dal tried to mislead the public by giving the impression that 19 million people from Bangladesh would swarm into Assam if CAA was implemented. The voters did not fall for that lie.”Congress leader Bobbeeta Sharma insisted the CAA definitely was an issue. “We believe those who are concerned about Assam still oppose it tooth and nail. In this election, there were three parties that had an anti-CAA stance. We need to get the detailed results to see if the AJP or Raijor Dal took away a portion of the anti-CAA votes.”Click here for complete coverage of Assam assembly electionKaustabh Deka, a professor of political science at the Dibrugarh University, said the BJP has been able to successfully stop the resentment against the CAA. “The party kept the debates during election campaign outside the CAA ambit.”Akhil Ranjan Dutta, who teaches political science at the Gauhati University, said Covid-19 became the oxygen for the BJP as it was gasping for breath around the end of 2019 because of the protests against CAA and resentment against the governments in the state and Centre.Deka said the lockdown imposed because of Covid19 was able to break down the momentum of CAA protests and it benefitted the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-assam-caa-failed-to-hurt-bjp-cong-did-not-benefit-by-opposing-it-101619959557699.html
02-05-2021||India||India has administered over 156mn Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered over 156 million coronavirus vaccine doses by Saturday. On Day 1 of phase 3 of the nationwide vaccination drive, which includes the 18-44 year age group as well now, over 84,000 beneficiaries in this age group were vaccinated.In all, 156,637,825 vaccine doses have been given in the country by Saturday, 8pm. This includes 9,428,060 healthcare workers who have had their first dose and 6,264,919 who have got their second dose as well. As many as 12,639,303 frontline workers have had their first dose while 6,877,807 have got their second dose too.Also Watch | Covid: Lockdown in Haryana for a week starting tomorrow, Anil Vij announcesIn the 45-59-year age group 53,280,782 people have got their first dose and another 4,008,078 have had their second dose as well. In the 60+ category, 52,613,700 people have been administered their first dose while 11,440,577 have had their second dose as well.As many as 1,648,192 vaccine doses were given on Sunday alone. Of this, 989,700 beneficiaries were vaccinated with the first dose and 658,492 beneficiaries received their second dose as well.Meanwhile, the newly added category of 18-44 year age group saw 84,599 people vaccinated on Saturday alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-over-156mn-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101619958177582.html
02-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: After election wins, Prashant Kishore wants to quit, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Prashant Kishor wants to quit poll strategising after Mamata, Stalin's big win, says 'have had enough'Election strategist Prashant Kishor on Sunday said he does not want to remain in this field any more as he has done enough of it and now wants to pursue something else. Read moreYechury, Prakash Karat laud Pinarayi Vijayan as LDF prepares for a comebackCPI(M) leader Prakash Karat on Sunday lauded the Pinarayi Vijayan-led government for their work and said that the people of Kerala rewarded the Left Democratic Front (LDF) for their handling of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and the Kerala floods. Read moreCovid-19 protocols violated as early trends trigger celebrations in BengalTrinamool Congress (TMC) workers and supporters gathered outside counting centres and on roads, as they played with colour, danced to beating drums and blew trumpets in violation of the Covid-19 norms as the party appeared set to return to power for a third straight time in West Bengal. Read moreDelhi Police urges people to steer clear of fake Remdesivir injectionsDelhi Police issued an advisory warning relatives and friends of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients to not get lured into buying fake Remdesivir injections on Saturday. Read moreHaryana announces full lockdown in state for a week starting tomorrowHaryana home and health minister Anil Vij announced on Sunday that the state will go into complete lockdown for a week amid sharp spike in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the state. Read moreAnushka Sharma says she, Virat Kohli will 'do their bit' for Covid-19 relief; reveals why she didn't celebrate birthdayActor Anushka Sharma on Sunday released a video on Instagram to thank fans for the birthday wishes she had received. She also said why she did not celebrate her birthday. Anushka turned 33 on Saturday. Read moreIPL 2021, RR vs SRH: David Warner dropped as Sunrisers Hyderabad make three changes; Bhuvneshwar Kumar returnsSunrisers Hyderabad captain David Warner, who was removed as Sunrisers Hyderabad captain on Saturday, was also dropped from the SRH Playing XI in their Indian Premier League 2021 contest against Rajasthan Royals on Sunday. Read moreLoved Neha Kakkar’s sultry ethnic look on Indian Idol’s set? Here’s what it costSummer’s biggest trend this year is undoubtedly organza and laying style inspiration for the new brides, Neha Kakkar shared throwback pictures from television reality show, Indian Idol 12, which were enough to make the fashion police go weak in their knees. Read moreWatch: DMK 'insecure' about ally Congress? MP explains amid Tamil Nadu poll results||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-after-election-wins-prashant-kishore-wants-to-quit-and-all-the-latest-news-101619953589773.html
02-05-2021||India||Prashant Kishor wants to quit poll strategising after Mamata, Stalin's big win, says 'have had enough'||Election strategist Prashant Kishor on Sunday said he does not want to remain in this field any more as he has done enough of it and now wants to pursue something else. His announcement during a live interview on NDTV came as social media was hailing him as the mastermind behind Trinamool Congress's performance in the West Bengal Assembly Election 2021. West Bengal was not the only project that Prashant's team was working on this time. He was the political strategist for DMK's MK Stalin, who too witnessed a big win."I have had enough. I have been doing this for 8-9 years. It's a tough job. I want to do something else in life. I don't have to do this all my life and I have been saying this in every conversation I am having with people," he said."Beyond this, there are very able people in I-PAC who run the show and I get credit for their work. It is now time for them to take over," Prashant said.On joining politics, he said, "I am just saying that I don't want to do what I am doing right now. It is time for my colleagues in I-PAC to take over". On not ruling out politics, he said, "I am not ruling in or out anything."He also said this "announcement" won't be a shocker for his colleagues at IPAC as they have spent enough time with him to know what he wants to do in life.For all the hype AMPLIFIED by a section of supportive media, in reality BJP will struggle to CROSS DOUBLE DIGITS in #WestBengal PS: Please save this tweet and if BJP does any better I must quit this space!Soon after his announcement, an old tweet of Prashant went viral. In December 2020, he had said that if BJP performs any better in West Bengal than his prediction, then he will quit. And what was his prediction? BJP will struggle to cross double digits, the poll strategist had said.In 2013, Prashant Kishor formed Citizens or Accountable Governance (CAG), as part of his campaign for Narendra Modi for the 2014 Lok Sabha elections. Before that, he worked as Modi's strategist in Gujarat in 2011. After Modi's win in 2014, Prashant Kishor worked as a strategist for the Congress, JD (U), AAP, Shiv Sena, Trinamool and DMK. And CAG became I-PAC, Indian Political Action Committee.In 2018, Prashant Kumar joined JD(U) but had a fallout with Nitish Kumar over the Citizenship Amendment Act. In 2020, he was expelled from the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prashant-kishor-wants-to-quit-poll-strategising-says-have-had-enough-101619952642419.html
02-05-2021||India||Haryana announces full lockdown in state for a week starting tomorrow||Haryana home and health minister Anil Vij announced on Sunday that the state will go into complete lockdown for a week amid sharp spike in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the state."From May 3, Monday, the entire state of Haryana will be under complete lockdown for seven days," health minister Vij said in a tweet in Hindi.3 मई दिन सोमवार से 7 दिन के लिए सारे हरियाणा में पूर्ण लॉक डाउन घोषित ।Haryana on Saturday registered its biggest single-day jump in Covid-related deaths as the state recorded 125 deaths which took the toll to 4,341, while 13,588 fresh cases pushed the infection count in the state to 501,566.Watch: Lockdown in Haryana for a week starting tomorrow, Anil Vij announcesRead more: Vulnerable Haryana govt employees to not attend officeThe number of active cases in the state crossed the one-lakh mark for the first time since the pandemic began on Saturday. The state currently has 102,516 active Covid-19 cases and the hardest-hit cities Gurugram and Faridabad account for 50 per cent of the cases, according to the state's health bulletin.Several districts in the state are already under a weekend lockdown which started from 10pm on Friday and will end on 5am on Monday. The weekend lockdown was announced by the state government in nine districts across the state on Friday, which include, Gurugram, Panchkula, Faridabad, Sonipat, Rohtak, Karnal, Hisar, Sirsa, and Fatehabad.Read more: People struggling to get beds, oxygen and medicines in Haryana“Whereas, the Covid-19 pandemic is again posing threat to public health, the Haryana government has considered it necessary to take effective measures to prevent its spread in the state,” excerpts from the order announcing the weekend lockdown said.India reported 392,488 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday and a record 3,689 related fatalities which pushed the infection count to 19,557,457 and the death toll to 215,542 respectively, according to the Union health ministry's dashboard at 8am. With this, the active cases in the country crossed the 33-lakh mark as the country as they increase to 3,349,644, thus comprising 17.13 per cent of the total infections. The recovery rate in the country dropped to 81.77 per cent as the number of people who recuperated from the viral disease stood at 15,992,271.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-announces-full-lockdown-in-state-for-a-week-starting-tomorrow-101619948187768.html
02-05-2021||India||122 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses needed to inoculate 59 crore people in 18-45 age group: Centre tells SC||The Centre has told the Supreme Court that a total of 122 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccine would be required to vaccinate a population of 59 crore in the age group of 18 to 45 years.In an affidavit filed before the top court, the Centre said vaccination is the topmost priority of the government and all efforts are being made to achieve an objective of 100 per cent vaccination in the shortest time possible keeping the available resources in mind and availability of vaccine doses into consideration.“It is submitted that considering the limited availability of two vaccines which are presently available in India namely Covaxin and Covisheild, it became incumbent upon the government to prioritise vaccination in the most scientific manner. It is submitted that while prioritising vaccination the first priority was towards health workers.“It is submitted that projected mid-year population for 2021 for the age group of 18 to 45 years is about 59 crore. To vaccinate this target, a total of 122 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccine would be required (which factors in some vaccine wastage which is inevitable),” the Centre said.Stating that the central government has already taken proactive steps for procurement of other vaccines apart from Covishield and Covaxin, the Centre told the apex court that it has fast tracked the emergency approvals for foreign produced Covid-19 Vaccines that have been granted approval in other countries.The government told the court that it has already granted license to Sputnik V vaccine for restricted use in emergency situation (emergency use authorization granted by European Union Agency) based on data from studies/clinical trials in Russia and other countries coupled with data from Phase II/III trials conducted in India by Dr. Reddy's Laboratories.“It is submitted that as per estimates the availability of locally manufactured Sputnik V vaccine will start from July onwards. It is expected that locally manufactured Sputnik V vaccine will be available to the extent of 8 million and 16 million doses (for 4 million and 8 million individuals) for the months of July and August 2021 respectively.“It is further submitted that the Union of India has been in constant touch with Pfizer, Moderna and J&J since mid- 2020 with the objective of encouraging these companies to develop/ supply/manufacture their respective vaccine through their local partners in India,” the Centre said.The top court on April 22 took note of the pandemic situation due to sudden surge in Covid-19 cases and said it expected the Centre to come out with a “national plan” to deal with the distribution of essential services and supplies, including oxygen and drugs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/122-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-needed-to-inoculate-59-crore-people-in-18-45-age-group-centre-tells-sc-101619946809366.html
02-05-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir gives 5 tasks to Covid 19 crisis management group||Jammu and Kashmir administration has constituted a crisis management group (CMG) to monitor and contain the rapid spread of Covid-19 disease during its second wave. The five member CMG will consist of chief secretary as chairman, and the finance commissioners of the departments of finance, health, home and the Public works (PWD) as its members. The personal secretary to the lieutenant governor (LG) of the Union Territory will be a special invitee, said an official statement released by the LG’s office.The CMG will meet daily, and more often if necessary. It will interact with other officers and medical specialists with the purpose to take all necessary measures to contain the disease, the statement added. LG Manoj Sinha formed the group at a time when the UT recorded 47 deaths including 30 in Jammu and 17 in Kashmir on Saturday – the highest single-day death toll due to Covid-19 this year.The UT on Saturday recorded its biggest single-day spike of 3,832 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the infection tally to 179,915, while a record number of fatalities in the 24-hour-period raised the pandemic toll to 2,330, officials said.A 84-hour lockdown was imposed in 11 districts of Srinagar, Anantnag, Baramulla, Budgam, Kulgam, Pulwama, Ganderbal, Jammu, Kathua, Reasi and Udhampur beginning 7 pm on Thursday. In the rest of the nine districts -- Bandipora, Kupwara, Shopian, Rajouri, Poonch, Samba, Doda, Kishtwar and Ramban -- the lockdown came into effect at 7 pm on Friday.However, the government on Saturday announced the extension of the lockdown in four districts -- Jammu and three others in the valley -- till Thursday morning, the officials said. He said the curfew at night will continue in all municipal /urban local body limits of all the 20 districts of Jammu and Kashmir.The first of the group’s five major responsibilities is to review UT’s rapidly evolving Covid-19 situation in terms of cases, testing rates, positivity, mortality, recovery, hospital occupancy and other parameters. The panel is also responsible for reviewing the requirement and availability of oxygen and medicines at all health institutions apart from taking other immediate measures to prevent and control the infection while managing resources.Among the other two important tasks; the CMG will have to monitor the vaccine rollout and fine tune vaccination strategies to ensure speedy and complete coverage at the earliest while taking any other steps required to meet the overall goal of controlling the spread of the disease, the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-and-kashmir-gives-5-tasks-to-covid-19-crisis-management-group-101619948457475.html
02-05-2021||India||Overcast sky, isolated thunderstorm likely over NW India for 4-5 days||There is likely to be light rain and thunderstorms in several parts of the western Himalayan region and adjoining northwest India for the next 3-4 days, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).Two consecutive western disturbances (WDs) which were affecting the western Himalayan region have now weakened. Their impact,in combination with strong easterly winds, is likely to cause isolated thunderstorms over the region.Rain or thundershowers occurred at some places over northwest India except east Uttar Pradesh where it was dry. Thunderstorms also occurred at isolated places over Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan on Saturday and Sunday. Hailstorm occurred at isolated places over Uttarakhand (Mussoorie) and dust storms occurred at some places over west Rajasthan.“We are not expecting heat wave or very high temperatures over northwest India during the next 4-5 days. This is because of strong easterly winds which will cause isolated thunderstorm activity and the sky will remain overcast in many areas. Intense thunderstorm activity is expected in east, northeast and peninsular India during the next few days,” explained RK Jenamani, senior scientist, national weather forecasting centre.A cyclonic circulation is lying over northwest Madhya Pradesh and neighbourhood and a trough (line of low pressure) is running from the circulation to Manipur. A trough in westerlies is also likely to persist over east India during the next 4-5 days.Also Read | Severe weather warning for Maharashtra, heavy rain likely in areas bordering KarnatakaUnder its influence, fairly widespread rainfall or thunderstorm activity is likely over sub Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim, Assam and Meghalaya and scattered to fairly widespread rainfall over rest of east and northeast India during the next five days. Heavy rainfall is also likely over sub Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim, Assam and Meghalaya during May 2 to 5; over Gangetic West Bengal from May 3 to 5 and over Odisha and Arunachal Pradesh on May 4. Intense thunderstorm activity accompanied with strong gusty winds is also likely over most parts of this region.Under the influence of a cyclonic circulation over south Tamil Nadu and neighbourhood and a north-south trough or wind discontinuity over south Peninsula at lower levels, light/moderate scattered to fairly widespread rain or thunder is very likely over Kerala, Mahe, Lakshadweep and Karnataka; and isolated rain or thundershower over rest of south Peninsular India during the next five days.No heat wave is likely over any part of the country during the next five days. Due to high swell waves, sea conditions are likely to be rough along and off the west coast Andaman & Nicobar Islands and along and off the coastal areas of south Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Karnataka, Lakshadweep on May 2. Fishermen are advised to be cautious while venturing into these areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/overcast-sky-isolated-thunderstorm-likely-over-nw-india-for-4-5-days-101619948397340.html
02-05-2021||India||Taiwan, Uzbekistan send support for India’s Covid-19 response||Taiwan on Sunday delivered a support package, including 150 oxygen concentrators, for India’s response to a devastating second wave of Coronavirus infections and said it would provide more aid soon. The aid reflects the growing engagement between India and Taiwan, especially against the backdrop of the standoff with China on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and China’s aggressive actions across the region, including repeated violations of Taiwan’s airspace. The Taipei Economic and Cultural Center (TECC), Taiwan’s representative office in New Delhi, said in a statement the critical medical supplies were delivered to “express strong friendship with India in its fight against a new wave” of the pandemic. The first batch includes 150 oxygen concentrators and 500 oxygen cylinders, and more batches of medical equipment will be airlifted to India soon, TECC said. Also Read | In touch with foreign embassies, responding to their medical demands: MEA“While the contribution is modest, we hope that it will bring comfort and relief to the patients in need and ease the burden on the healthcare workers who are working tirelessly to fight the pandemic,” the statement said. “Taiwan is committed to providing necessary assistance to the people of India in time of need,” it added. TECC reaffirmed the friendly bilateral relations between Taiwan and India, and said: “Taiwan’s deployment of medical supplies is testament to the close collaboration and partnership across multiple agencies on both sides. It also reflects the robust relief efforts and contributions made by the government and people of Taiwan to bring humanitarian relief to India.” On April 27, Taiwan’s President Tsai Ing-wen had conveyed her solidarity with India and expressed concern about the situation in the country as it logged record-breaking daily surges of infection for consecutive days. “On behalf of all #Taiwanese people, I would like to express my serious concern over the rapid spread of COVID-19 in #India. Taiwan stands with India in this difficult time, & we are ready to provide help,” she tweeted. Several other smaller countries have pitched in to support India’s fight against the second wave of infections, which last week crossed the 400,000-mark for the first time. Some have said they were responding to the assistance provided by New Delhi last year. Uzbekistan, which benefited from India’s assistance during the first wave of the pandemic last year and received 660,000 doses of Indian-made Covid-19 vaccine in March, delivered a support package comprising 100 oxygen concentrators, doses of the antiviral drug Remdesivir and other medicines early on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/taiwan-uzbekistan-send-support-for-india-s-covid-19-response-101619945937995.html
02-05-2021||India||Losing parents to Covid, many children stare at uncertain future||A 14-year-old boy was left alone at home for hours with the bodies of his parents as they succumbed to Covid-19 this month in north Delhi before he could gather himself and rush to a relative’s house to inform them about the deaths. “He could barely talk...he was silent for a minute... He kept calling his parents,” said a member of the non-governmental organisation (NGO) working for such children.The boy’s mother, who was in her late 30s first developed Covid-19 symptoms, before he and his 41-year-old father contracted the disease. A doctor prescribed some drugs and the family managed to get an oxygen cylinder, but the couple succumbed to the disease at home.Like the boy’s parents, a significant proportion of people, who have died as the second Covid-19 wave has overwhelmed India’s health system, are in their 30s and 40s. In many cases, children of people in this age group have lost both parents.Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR ) chairperson Anurag Kundu said they have received many SOSs about children left alone as their parents were hospitalised or have lost whole of their immediate families. “At times, there is no one to even offer them food,” said Kundu.Also Read | In touch with foreign embassies, responding to their medical demands: MEAA DCPCR volunteer, who did not wish to be named, said the NGO put them into touch with the family taking care of the 14-year-old boy. “We helped them connect with various child welfare committees to find this boy a better home. The family was very cooperative and had even taken him twice to a child psychologist for counselling. A woman in that family has been taking care of all his nutrition and medicines since he is still Covid-19 positive.”The family has refused any institutional support and initially set up a fundraiser to pay for the debt the boy’s parents incurred for their medical expenses. “Over ₹two lakh was raised in a day and all the debts of his parents were cleared...” the volunteer said. He added some of the boy’s close relatives live abroad. “...they [the family he is living with] have even started the legal proceedings to adopt him.”Kundu said in many other cases, one parent of children is hospitalised while the other has passed away. He added in most cases, relatives have come forward and taken care of such children. Kundu said at least in two cases, children were left to fend for themselves. “We have shifted them to a shelter home in Delhi until we find some accepting family to take care of them and contribute to making their life better.”Kundu said people are always willing to accept such children. “Even our preference for a child is a domestic setup rather than any institutional care but there is a legal process for adoption.” He added they need to undertake thorough background checks of families, who come forward to adopt such children.Sonal Kapoor Singh, the founder of an NGO working for children at risk or having experienced traumatic events, said the last few months have been disastrous. “We have been working to help children in 40 slums for 10 years to help them recuperate from various traumas. The last few months have been very disturbing. Excluding children, who have lost both parents to Covid, there are cases where the condition of children is worse than those orphaned by the pandemic.”Singh said they have received complaints about children being deserted by their fathers after their mothers died of Covid-19. “In many cases, young girls have been forced to do hard labour for lesser wages as both their parents have died of Covid-19.” Singh added there are also cases of girls in these slums, who were sexually assaulted by their fathers rendered jobless by Covid-19, as they are home throughout the day while mothers are out busy working.Also Read | Covid-19: Israel bans travel to India, 6 other countriesBachpan Bachao Andolan, a child rights organisation run by Nobel laureate Kailash Satyarthi, said they have received over 200 SOS calls from across India in just two days about children losing the whole of their immediate families. “There are calls from Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Delhi and many other states where there is no one to take the care of these children. For now, we are trying to send teams with food...” said Paroma Bhattacharya, a representative of the organisation. “In many cases, we are helping the government in shifting these children to shelter homes for now.”Joshita Nag, a social worker from Kolkata, said she has come across many WhatsApp forwards requesting people to take custody of children whose parents have died. “It is not just illegal but horrible for the existence of these children.” She added it could lead to trafficking in the name of help. “Some people are doing a greater damage,” Nag said. She appealed to people to immediately contact child rights protection panels in such cases.An 18-year-old, who identified himself with his second name Upadhyay, said they face a double whammy after losing their father for the want of medical care outside a Delhi hospital. “My mother got better with that injection [remdesivir]. Father died as he developed pneumonia.” He said his father was a businessman. “We had a small manufacturing plant... after taking a loan. Soon after the first wave of Covid-19 began, our business failed. Even our labourers left, and we could not pay the loan instalments to the bank. The bank officials since then have been harassing us and now after my father has passed away, I do not know what is going to happen. They apparently might take away our house. It is distressing, the virus first snatched our father and now might even make us homeless.”In a tweet, Union women and child development minister Smriti Irani on Saturday said the government has been reaching out to the states and sought the protection of the children who lost parents to Covid-19. She added the ministry appealed to states to enable Child Welfare Committees to actively monitor the well-being of these children.HT reached out to the officials of the ministry for fresh comments over the issue but there was no response despite repeated calls.Bhavna Barmi, a child psychologist at Delhi’s Fortis Hospital, said it is very important that while taking custody of such children, the caretakers do not allow their minds to recount what has happened to them. “The first thing is that no one should offer condolences to such children as doing so recreates the whole scenario of grief in the child and expose him or her to trauma again,” said Barmi. “We should rather try to extend our nurturance to them by normalising their daily routine as it was earlier and try to make their emotions more relevant as they were with their parents.” Barmi said once the trauma slowly fades away, a sense of optimism should be imparted in them by allowing them to do healthy activities that they show interest in. “This shall allow them to happily pursue their goals in life ahead.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/losing-parents-to-covid-many-children-stare-at-uncertain-future-101619942516937.html
02-05-2021||India||In touch with foreign embassies, responding to their medical demands: MEA||The Ministry of External Affairs on Sunday said it is in continuous touch with all foreign embassies in India and responding to their medical demands, especially those related to Covid-19.MEA Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said the response to medical demands of the embassies included facilitating treatment in hospital even as he urged all not to hoard essential supplies including oxygen.Earlier, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar hit out at Congress leader Jairam Ramesh after he said on Twitter that the youth wing of the Congress was attending to SOS calls from foreign embassies and wondered whether the MEA was "sleeping".Ramesh also shared a video posted on Twitter by Indian Youth Congress national president Srinivas B V that showed a mini pickup van entering the embassy of the Philippines in Delhi, carrying oxygen cylinders."MEA checked with the Philippines Embassy. This was an unsolicited supply as they had no Covid cases. Clearly for cheap publicity by you know who. Giving away cylinders like this when there are people in desperate need of oxygen is simply appalling," Jaishankar tweeted."Jairamji, MEA never sleeps; our people know across the world. MEA also never fakes; we know who does," he said in another tweet.Srinivas tweeted the video with a caption "#SOSIYC members at Embassy of the Philippines in New Delhi."In his comments, Ramesh complimented the Indian Youth Congress."While I thank @IYC for its stellar efforts, as an Indian citizen I'm stunned that the youth wing of the opposition party is attending to SOS calls from foreign embassies. Is the MEA sleeping @DrSJaishankar?," he tweeted.In his statement, Bagchi said the MEA is responding to the medical demands by the foreign missions."The chief of protocol and heads of divisions are in continuous touch with all high commissions/embassies and MEA is responding to their medical demands, especially those related to Covid. This includes facilitating their hospital treatment," he said."Given the pandemic situation, all are urged not to hoard essential supplies, including oxygen," Bagchi said, responding to media queries.Hospitals across the national capital are reeling under a severe shortage of medical oxygen due to the massive surge in Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-touch-with-foreign-embassies-responding-to-their-medical-demands-mea-101619941482911.html
02-05-2021||India||2.40 lakh doses of Covaxin found in an abandoned truck in MP||A truck taking 2.40 lakh Covaxin doses to Karnal in Haryana was found abandoned on Friday under mysterious circumstances over 900 kms away in Madhya Pradesh’s Narsinghpur district, police said on Saturday. The incident comes at a time when the Covid-19 vaccination drive is struggling to pick up pace due to a shortage in supply of vaccines.The driver of the truck had gone missing but the vaccine was found to be safe inside the refrigerator, found to be in working condition, said Vipul Shrivastava, superintendent of police (SP), Narsinghpur.“The truck with Tamil Nadu registration number was going to Karnal in Haryana from Hyderabad. A few people on Friday informed us that a truck was left abandoned in the Kareli area of the district. Police reached the spot and checked the papers to find bills worth ₹8 crore of Covaxin,” said the police officer.Shrivastava said the truck was owned by a transport company in Gurgaon, which when contacted said the driver, Vikas Mishra, was not reachable for the past 12 hours. Cyber police tracked down the driver’s mobile number near a Dhaba in Narsinghpur. “While the mobile phone was found in nearby bushes, the driver was nowhere to be found,” he added.Later, the transport company sent another driver to Narsinghpur to take the truck to Karnal. The truck left for its destination on Friday night while the police continued to investigate the driver’s disappearance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/240-lakh-doses-of-covaxin-found-in-an-abandoned-truck-in-mp-101619941796935.html
02-05-2021||India||Swadeshi Jagran Manch demands regulatory clearance for local production of Sputnik||Swadeshi Jagran Manch (SJM), an offshoot of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), has urged the Centre to provide regulatory clearance for the local production of the Russian Sputnik V vaccine and impose a ceiling of prices on Covid-19 medicines and vaccines taking into account the cost of production-based formula. It cited the surge in Covid cases and called for an urgent need to have medicines and vaccines available at affordable prices.As the vaccination has been opened up for everyone over 18, the SJM has underlined the need for more production. “In the case of vaccines, the country needs nearly 195 crore of doses to cover at least 70% of the population. This cannot be fulfilled by the two companies alone. There is an urgent need to bring more manufactures to start the production. To facilitate the technology transfer, the government has to take measures to overcome the intellectual property barriers including patent and trade secrets,” said SJM’s national co-convenor, Ashwani Mahajan.Also Read | First batch of Sputnik V vaccine arrives in Hyderabad“...the local production of remdesivir and favirapvir is taking place, the available quantity is highly inadequate to meet the increasing demand due to the severity of the problem. Another important medicine to treat COVID 19 patients with a deadly ‘cytokine storm’ is tocilizumab, which is not produced in India. The import of this medicine is highly inadequate to meet the requirements.” Amid the high demand for antiviral remdesivir and the exorbitant prices being quoted, the SJM, which has been at the forefront of the campaign for indigenous production, pointed out that despite the voluntary price reduction, it still costs between ₹899 and ₹3,490 per vial. “Reports in this regard state the cost of the full course of remedsivir including reasonable profit is around USD 9 i.e. around ₹666. On the other hand, the cost of tocilizumab is ₹40,000 per vial. Under the present scenario the general public is reeling under the corporate greed, which needs to be curbed at any cost,” Mahajan said.The SJM has asked the government to use the public health safeguards in the Patents Act and permit more companies to produce these medicines.The SJM also slammed Bill Gates for his statement that vaccine formula should not be shared with India and other countries. “This is nothing but yet another manifestation of corporate greed to profit from the worst pandemic of the century. There is an urgent need to invoke measures like the ceiling of the prices of these medicines. The prices of vaccines announced by both companies for the state government procurement and private hospitals are exorbitant and affect the acceleration of vaccination in the country,” Mahajan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/swadeshi-jagran-manch-demands-regulatory-clearance-for-local-production-of-sputnik-101619941136996.html
02-05-2021||India||France sends oxygen generator plants to back India’s Covid response||A special cargo flight from France flew in 28 tonnes of medical equipment on Sunday to back India’s Covid-19 response, including eight high capacity oxygen generator plants to be deployed in hospitals in Delhi, Haryana and Telangana. This is the first phase of the solidarity mission launched by President Emmanuel Macron to support India as part of the European Union’s coordinated response to the Covid-19 crisis.“The oxygen plants will be delivered to eight Indian hospitals, six in Delhi, one in Haryana and one in Telangana, based on needs as identified by the Indian authorities,” said a statement issued by the French embassy late on Saturday.It could not immediately be ascertained which hospitals in Delhi were getting the oxygen plants. The French support is meant not only to provide immediate medical relief from a crippling shortage of oxygen but also to boost India’s “strategic autonomy in healthcare” since each of the eight plants can supply a 250-bed hospital non-stop for a dozen years. Also Watch | ‘Covid aid to India largest package sent by France to any country’: French EnvoyThis provides enhanced resilience to peaks in oxygen demand and savings of up to ₹15 crore a year while eliminating safety issues related to liquid oxygen storage, the French embassy said. The oxygen plants, sourced from the French company Novair, produce medical oxygen from ambient air to supply a hospital’s oxygen system or fill cylinders at a rate of 20,000 litres an hour.“Mission accomplie! 1st phase of [France’s] solidarity mission landed this morning with 28 tons of ready-to-use support incl. 8 oxygen plants. More to come soon as we continue to stand together in this fight,” French ambassador Emmanuel Lenain tweeted. Besides the oxygen plants, the flight carried 28 ventilators and 200 electric syringe pumps to be distributed to several hospitals to enhance their ICU capacities. The supplies brought in on the flight were worth more than ₹17 crore. The equipment was handed over by the French side to the Indian government through the Indian Red Cross Society.People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that the Indian side had identified the hospitals where the oxygen plants will be installed, in line with medical requirements and priority, to ensure that they can be utilised at the earliest.“This will bring much needed relief in many key hospitals,” said one of the people cited above. The French embassy’s statement also quoted Lenain as saying: “We stand by India in these difficult times, just as India has always stood by France. In spring 2020, when French hospitals were facing acute shortages, India provided lifesaving help through the export of critical medical drugs. The French people have not forgotten.” The special cargo flight was chartered free of charge by the French shipping group CMA CGM, and many other French firms with a presence in India pooled their resources with the French government for the solidarity mission. A second delivery of oxygen generators and medical equipment from France is underway, and French company Air Liquide will begin shipping several hundred tonnes of oxygen through a dedicated logistical bridge organised by the French and Indian governments and implemented with the Indian military.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/france-sends-oxygen-generator-plants-to-back-india-s-covid-response-101619940897117.html
02-05-2021||India||Odisha in 14 day lockdown from May 5 as Covid TPR crosses 50% in some places||Odisha on Sunday announced a 14-day lockdown from May 5 till May 19 with the aim to contain the second wave of Covid-19 transmissions, happening at an alarming rate, with some districts in the state reporting test positivity rates of 50%. A test positive rate of 50% means that one out of every two persons tested for the disease is found infected. Odisha chief secretary Suresh Mohapatra however clarified that the lockdown was primarily aimed at restricting people’s movement and the movement of goods and goods carriers will not be affected by it.Mohapatra said the lockdown will have varying intensity with weekends witnessing a “complete shutdown” barring activities related to Covid vaccination, testing, healthcare and election-related works for by-polls in Pipili assembly constituency, scheduled for later this month.During the lockdown on weekdays, residents will be allowed to buy vegetables between 6 am and 12pm from roadside vendors, who will have to maintain a distance of at least 30 feet from each other. Weekly markets will not be allowed to operate, however, school book shops will be allowed to open. Hotels, home stays, lodges and motels, housing tourists and other visitors stranded due to the lockdown will be allowed to operate, according to the government order.Private security services and facilities management services for maintenance and upkeep of office and residential complexes will also be allowed to operate. Services provided by self-employed persons such as electricians, IT repairmen, plumbers, motor mechanics and carpenters have also been exempted from the lockdown apart from repair and service facilities for electrical and electronic appliances including fans, air coolers, water purifiers, air conditioners, mobile phones, computers and accessories.The government also clarified that those eligible for Covid vaccination can go to vaccination sites during the lockdown.Inter-state bus transport has been prohibited during the lockdown and shutdown phases, but inter-state air and rail transport will be allowed. Intra-state public transport such as buses and taxi aggregators like Ola/Uber will not be allowed to operate during the lockdown; however, passengers can hire private taxis from airports and railway stations after showing their travel documents.Odisha recorded 8,015 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, down from 10,413 cases recorded on Saturday. So far 2,068 people have died due to the disease while the number of active cases in the state stands at 69,453.Officials said lockdown was necessary to break the chain of transmission in districts like Sundargarh and Kalahandi, which recorded a test positivity rate (TPR) of 59 and 42+ on Sunday. Several other districts like Nuapara, Bargarh and Sambalpur too, registered a TPR of 30% and more.Meanwhile, chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Sunday declared working journalists of the state as frontline Covid warriors. During the first and second waves of the disease, 27 print, electronic and web journalists have succumbed to the deadly infection. Close to 7,000 working journalists are likely to get vaccination on priority after the announcement. The state government also announced an ex-gratia compensation of ₹15 lakh each for the kin of the journalists who have succumbed to the disease.Meanwhile, three policemen in Mayurbhanj district were injured while trying to disperse thousands of Santhal tribals in Udala area, where they were celebrating Magh Parav. Mayurbhanj SP Smith Parmar said around 2000 people had converged at Debanbahali village under Sarat police station to celebrate the Magh Parav when assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Biswajit Das Mohapatra, a constable and a home guard asked them to stop the celebrations in view of the restrictions on mass gatherings, put in place to prevent the spread of the disease.“The people present there did not listen and instead attacked the policemen and vandalised the police vehicle,” said the SP. He added that the ASI received critical injuries in the attack and was currently under treatment at medical college and hospital in Baripada. “We will arrest all those who assaulted the policemen,” said the SP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-in-14-day-lockdown-from-may-5-as-covid-tpr-crosses-50-in-some-places-101619940656813.html
02-05-2021||India||News updates from HT at 1 pm: Bengal results may have impact on central govt, says Sena and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Shiv Sena taunts BJP saying Bengal results may have impact on central govtRuling Shiv Sena on Sunday said those predicting political upheaval in Maharashtra after the West Bengal election results should also worry whether the Central government will be stable after its alleged mishandling of the Covid-19 pandemic. Vijayan looks set to continue in power in KeralaThe ruling CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) is set to buck the electoral trend of four decades in Kerala by retaining power in the state, counting trends show. Assembly elections: TMC takes big lead with over 10% votes counted in BengalThe Trinamool Congress (TMC) appeared to be heading for a third consecutive term in West Bengal even as the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was likely to post its best result in the state, initial trends in counting of votes showed on Sunday morning. 'I never thought I would ever see that': Swann says du Plessis' dropping Pollard was 'biggest moment' of CSK vs MI matchKieron Pollard was going at full pace against Chennai Super Kings on Saturday. Mumbai Indians needed to chase a 219 and hoped that someone will stand to the challenge at the Arun Jaitley Stadium in Delhi. Pakistani singers’ heartfelt rendition of Arziyan in solidarity with India amid Covid-19 crisis wins hearts. Watch viralA soulful rendition of the famous song Arziyan by a few singers from Pakistan has now wowed people. What has also won people’s hearts is the reason behind their performance. It is to show solidarity with India amid the ongoing coronavirus crisis. Ileana D’Cruz says there was fake news about her undergoing an abortion: ‘It was bizarre’Ileana D’Cruz talked about being the victim of fake news in a new interview. She said that there were rumours that she was pregnant and underwent an abortion. She also opened up about false reports which claimed that she had attempted suicide. Super Cop or Super Flop? Julio Ribeiro tells all in The InterviewFormer police commissioner of Mumbai Julio Ribeiro talks about politicians, bureaucrats and police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1-pm-pinarayi-vijayan-looks-set-to-continue-in-power-in-kerala-and-all-the-latest-news-101619936672499.html
02-05-2021||India||Shiv Sena taunts BJP saying Bengal results may have impact on central govt||Ruling Shiv Sena on Sunday said those predicting political upheaval in Maharashtra after the West Bengal election results should also worry whether the Central government will be stable after its alleged mishandling of the Covid-19 pandemic. “Those claiming that there would be political developments in Maharashtra after May 2 [election results] should also remember that tremors will also be felt in Delhi,” said Shiv Sena lawmaker Sanjay Raut in his weekly column in his party’s mouthpiece Saamana.Raut, who is also the executive editor of the mouthpiece, said that Mamata Banerjee’s victory in West Bengal would be a personal defeat for Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah, who led the campaigning in the state. “Those claiming that the Maharashtra government’s future is dependent on West Bengal’s results are living in a fool’s paradise. I wonder on what basis some people are saying that Amit Shah will now concentrate on dislodging the Maharashtra government. They will either woo ruling party legislators on basis of their money power or impose Presidential rule citing our failure to tackle the virus,” he wrote.“If Covid-19 is the reason, then we have to accept the fact that the Central government has no moral right to continue in office. At a time when there is a shortage of medicines and oxygen and more than 5,000 people are dying, how come they can think of indulging in such political play? In order to win one state [West Bengal], these people have put the entire country at risk, and this has been acknowledged by the Supreme Court. The Madras High Court has squarely blamed the Election Commission for this situation.”There was no immediate response from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).The Trinamool Congress appeared to be heading for a third consecutive term in West Bengal even as the BJP was likely to post its best result in the state, initial trends in the counting of votes showed on Sunday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shiv-sena-taunts-bjp-saying-bengal-results-may-have-impact-on-central-govt-101619940237585.html
02-05-2021||India||BJP’s Mangala Suresh in slender lead over Satish Jarkiholi in Belagavi by-polls||Mangala Suresh Angadi, the wife of late Union minister Suresh Angadi, had a slender lead upon Congress leader Satish Jarkiholi in Belagavi parliamentary by polls after the first few rounds of counting on May 2.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate Mangala Angadi was leading with 113,095 votes as against Jarkiholi’s 103,633 votes at around 11 am on the counting day on Sunday, according to the chief election office of Karnataka.Belagavi parliamentary seat by-poll was necessitated after the death of four-time parliamentarian Suresh Angadi in September last year.The Congress named Satish, one of the five powerful Jarkiholi brothers of Belagavi, as its candidate to take on the former minister’s wife.On Raichur district’s Maski assembly seat, the Congress candidate Basanagouda Turvihal was leading with 9683 votes against BJP’s Pratapgouda Patil, who had secured 6933 votes in the early rounds. If the Congress wins the seat, it will be a big blow for Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa. Patil had defected from the Congress to the BJP in 2019 to help BJP grab power in the state.Turvihal fought on a BJP ticket in 2018 and lost to Patil by just 213 votes. The candidates switched sides for the bypolls.In Basavakalyan assembly constituency, BJPs Sharanu Salagar was leading with 6,440 votes as against Mala B Narayanrao of the Congress who has so far secured 3188 votes, according to data provided by the election commission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjps-mangala-suresh-in-slender-lead-over-satish-jarkiholi-in-belagavi-bypolls-101619935376882.html
02-05-2021||India||Odisha govt announces 14-day lockdown from May 5-19 amid Covid-19 surge||The Odisha government on Sunday announced a 14-day lockdown between May 5 and May 19 amid a surge in coronavirus disease (Covid-19), reports news agency ANI.Odisha recorded 8,015 new Covid-19 cases and 14 deaths in the last 24 hours, the state health department said on Sunday.With this, the total number of confirmed cases has gone up to 4,62,622 of which 3,91,048 have recovered and 2,068 have died due to the infection. The active cases stand at 6,9453.Of the fresh cases, 4,568 were detected among people in quarantine and 3,447 were local contacts, the bulletin further said. The state government has so far tested a total of 1,01,80,678 samples.The Odisha government had earlier announced that it will provide incentives to health care professionals on Covid-19 duty working under the health and family welfare department for the period of April to July this year.Meanwhile, Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on April 25 announced free vaccination against Covid-19 for all citizens of the state in the age group of 18 to 44 years.The state government will spend ₹2,000 crore on this vaccination drive, said the Chief Minister's Office.Odisha requires about 10.34 lakh Covaxin doses to inoculate about 5 lakh eligible people living in the BMC area, while the requirement of Covishield is 3.77 crore doses."Once Covishield vaccines reach, the government will plan the third phase vaccination across the state," an official said, adding that the state has the capability to give vaccine doses to 3 to 4 lakh people every day.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-govt-announces-14-day-lockdown-from-may-519-101619932466559.html
02-05-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir: 5-member team formed to tackle Covid crisis||The Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor (LG) Manoj Sinha formed a five member crisis management panel on Saturday to tackle Covid-19 situation across the Union Territory (UT) and ordered an immediate oxygen audit in every hospital to ensure its optimal availability to treat infected patients.The instructions were issued on a day when the UT recorded its highest daily death toll of 47 including 30 in Jammu and 17 in Kashmir due to Covid-19 this year.It was also decided to extend the Corona curfew till 7 am Thursday, May 6, in the four districts of Srinagar, Baramulla, Budgam and Jammu. The curfew was earlier slated to end at 7 am on Monday, May 3. The meeting also decided to continue micro-containment zoning as per requirement and re-assess the situation before May 6.At a time when many Covid patients have died across the country due to shortage of oxygen, the LG asked for a judicious use of the life-saving gas in the UT and an increase in the number of beds with oxygen cylinders apart from an effective 108 ambulance service.The five-member crisis management group, comprising chief secretary; financial commissioners of the Finance, and Health & Medical Education; home secretary and the principal secretary to the government, Public Works (R&B) Department, has been tasked with coordination and synergy between departments for a swift and effective response to the Covid-19 crisis.The LG also asked officers to ensure that the Covid vaccination drive was not hampered during the lockdown period and advised them to reach out to targeted age groups through mobile vaccination. It was also decided to have separate vaccination centres for different age groups. The LG further asked for coordination with the army for augmenting health capacities.Atal Dulloo, Financial Commissioner, Health and Medical Education informed the LG that a team of Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) personnel was in the UT to set up a 500-bed Covid facility, one each in Srinagar and Jammu.He also said that 150,000 doses of vaccine had been procured for the age group of 18-45 years and the third phase of the Covid-19 inoculation drive began on Saturday||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-and-kashmir-5-member-team-formed-to-tackle-covid-crisis-101619930516414.html
02-05-2021||India||PM Modi to meet experts to review oxygen, medicine availability amid Covid surge||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to meet experts at 9:30 am on Sunday to review oxygen and medicine availability amid surge in coronavirus disease (Covid-19), news agency ANI reported.He will review the human resource situation, in relation to the Covid-19 pandemic and ways to augment it.The meeting comes at a time when the Delhi high court directed the Centre to supply 490 metric tonnes of allocated oxygen to the national capital on Saturday itself, or face contempt."Do you mean we will shut our eyes to the people dying in Delhi. We mean business. Water has gone above the head," it asked the Centre. Thetop court said the government had made an allocation of oxygen to Delhi and should fulfil it.The Centre on Saturday raised Delhi's daily quota of life-saving gas to 590 metric tonnes from 490 MT. According to the Union health ministry, Delhi will get an additional 75 metric tonne of oxygen from LINDE Kalinganagar and 25 MT from JSW BPSL Jharsuguda (Odisha).Meanwhile, the government has informed the Supreme Court that PM Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah are “directly involved” in augmenting the oxygen supply on a “war-footing”.“Resultantly, more and more medical oxygen is generated and is being made available every day, keeping not just existing requirements but potential future requirements,” the Centre said.Many states in the country are facing a shortage of medical oxygen for very severe patients.Meanwhile, a total of 84,599 beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group received their first dose of coronavirus vaccine in the country on Saturday, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said. A total of 16,48,192 vaccine doses were given till 8 pm on Saturday, the 106th day of the inoculation drive, the ministry said. As many as 9,89,700 beneficiaries were vaccinated for the first dose and 6.58 lakh beneficiaries received the second dose, according to the provisional report. The total vaccinations across the country rose to over 15.66 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-meet-experts-to-review-oxygen-medicine-availability-amid-covid-surge-101619926493851.html
02-05-2021||NA||LIVE: Meghalaya reports 321 new Covid-19 cases, 5 more deaths||India’s caseload remained above 390,000 on Sunday, registering a slight dip from Saturday when the nation recorded more than 400,000 coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases. The daily death toll also remained above 3,500 which pushed the total death toll to 215,542. The nation which is reeling from a second wave of Covid-19 which has stressed the nation’s medical infrastructure. Several health experts believe that if the situation is not resolved the medical infrastructure in worst-hit states will put undue pressure on the system.Thailand and Germany have reported spikes in the number of deaths and cases respectively. Australia’s Perth could be subjected to a second snap-lockdown due to three Covid-19 cases. Pakistan health minister said that over 3,000 children, aged between 1-10 years, contracted Covid-19 in April.Follow all the updates here:Meghalaya reports 321 new Covid-19 cases, 5 more deathsMeghalaya on Sunday recorded 321 new Covid-19 cases, pushing the tally of active cases to 1,821. This is the biggest single-day spike the state witnessed this year. With the fresh infections, the overall caseload in the northeastern state has mounted to 17,429.Nagaland logs 216 new Covid-19 cases, 2 more deathsNagaland reported 216 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, pushing the tally to 14,350. The Covid-19 death toll rose to 109 as two patients succumbed to the disease.Punjab records highest single-day spike of 157 deaths, 7,327 infectionsA record single-day spike of 157 Covid-19 fatalities and 7,327 new cases pushed Punjab's death toll due to the disease to 9,317 and infection tally to 3,85,270, according to a medical bulletin issued here on Sunday. The number of active cases rose to 60,108 from 58,229 on Saturday, it said.France reports 113 more Covid-19 deaths, 5,581 in intensive careThe number of Covid-19 patients in intensive care units in France rose by 4 to 5,581 on Sunday, halting five consecutive days of decline, health ministry data showed.Britain reports 1,671 new Covid-19 cases, 14 deathsBritain reported 1,671 Covid-19 new infections on Sunday as well as a further 14 deaths within 28 days of a positive test. The official data also showed that 34.51 million people had received their first dose of the vaccine.Italy reports 144 Covid-19 deaths, 9,148 new casesItaly reported 144 coronavirus-related deaths on Sunday against 226 the day before, the health ministry said, while the daily tally of new infections fell to 9,148 from 12,965.Maharashtra sees decline in Covid-19 cases, reports 56,647 infectionsMaharashtra on Sunday reported 56,647 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases and 669 deaths with which the total number of cases in the state reached 4,722,401, while the death toll reached 70,284. A total of 257,470 people were tested in the state in 24 hours, the bulletin showed and the total number of recoveries in the state stood at 39,81,658 as 51,356 were discharged on Sunday. Read moreAndamans reports 97 fresh Covid-19 cases, 1 deathAndaman and Nicobar Islands Covid-19 tally rose to 6,046 as 97 more people tested positive for the infection while one new fatality pushed the coronavirus death toll in the union territory to 68. Of the 97 new Covid-19 cases, 85 were detected during contact tracing and 12 were airport arrivals.JK reports 41 Covid deaths, 3,571 news casesJammu and Kashmir recorded 3,571 fresh Covid cases, taking the tally to 1,83,486 on Sunday, while 41 more fatalities pushed the death toll to 2,370. Out of the fresh cases, 1,150 were from the Jammu division and 2,421 from the Kashmir division of the Union Territory.Nagpur reports 5,007 cases, 112 related deathsNagpur on Sunday reported 5,007 cases and 112 related deaths while 6,376 recoveries were recorded in the district.1,351 fresh Covid-19 cases, 25 deaths in Himachal PradeshHimachal Pradesh on Sunday recorded 1,351 fresh Covid-19 cases which took the tally to 1,03,389, while the death toll rose to 1,537 with 25 more people succumbing to the disease, a senior health official said. There are 19,763 active Covid-19 cases in the state, Special Health Secretary Nipun Jindal said citing data updated till 2 pm.Nigeria bans travellers from India, Brazil, Turkey over Covid-19 fearsNigeria will ban travellers coming from India, Brazil and Turkey because of concerns about the rampant spread of coronavirus in those countries, a presidential committee said on Sunday. "Non-Nigerian passport holders and non-residents who visited Brazil, India or Turkey within Fourteen (14) days preceding travel to Nigeria, shall be denied entry into Nigeria," Boss Mustapha, chairman of the presidential steering committee on Covid-19, said in a statement. The ban will take effect from May 4, the statement said.Russia records 8,697 new Covid-19 cases, 342 deathsRussia's coronavirus deaths rose by 342 in the past 24 hours, bumping up the death toll to 110,862, the Covid-19 response center said in a statement out Sunday. The country confirmed 8,697 new cases over the same period. More than 4.8 million have contracted Covid-19 in Russia since the pandemic began.Philippines logs 8,346 new Covid-19 cases, total surges to 1,054,983The Philippines' Department of Health (DOH) reported on Sunday 8,346 new coronavirus disease infections, bringing the total number of confirmed cases in the Southeast Asian country to 1,054,983. The death toll climbed to 17,431 after 77 more patients died from the viral disease.Delhi health minister's father dies of Covid-19, tweets CM KejriwalOur health minister Satyendra Jain lost his father today to COVID. V v sad. Satyendra himself has been working tirelessly round the clock for the people of Delhi.God bless his soul and my heartfelt condolences to the family.Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal extended his condolences to his colleague and fellow cabinet minister Satyendra Jain who lost his father to Covid-19.Large proportion of children lost their parents due to Covid-19As the second wave raged on, taking lives of people aged between 30-40 years, several children were orphaned as they lost both parents to the pandemic. Read more here.Rajasthan conducts vaccination driveRajasthan: #COVID19 vaccination drive underway across the country. Visuals from a vaccination centre in Banswara. pic.twitter.com/j7ih6dsoLYBeneficiaries were seen at a vaccination centre is Rajasthan's Banswara taking their jabs in phase III of vaccination.Medical students, nurses could join Covid-19 dutyDecisions may include delaying NEET and incentivizing MBBS pass-outs studying for it to join Covid duty. The decisions may also include utilizing services of final year MBBS & nursing students in Covid Duty: Govt of India SourcesAt the meeting chaired by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi, officials discussed the prospects of incentivizing MBBS and nursing students so that they can join Covid-19 duty.Delhi police issues advisory regarding fake RemdesivirThis is #Fake.No #Remdesivir by the name #COVIPRI exists.This complete racket has been busted but some injections may still be in circulation. Please do not buy from unverified sources. pic.twitter.com/HncrXgk4MhDelhi police officer and IPS Monika Bhardwaj shared an advisory and asked people to be aware of fake Remdesivir medicines.Maruti Suzuki, MG Motor, Hero MotoCorp and Honda Motorcycle & Scooter take measures to safeguard workforceLeading automobile manufacturers initiated various steps to ensure that their staff are safeguarded as the second wave continues to rage across the nation. Medicals teams have been deployed by several major car companies to test and track employees.Congress youth wing supplies oxygen cylinders to the Embassy of the PhilippinesThe Congress party's youth wing supplied oxygen cylinders to the embassy of Phillippines, news agency Bloomberg reported.Odisha declares journalists as frontline Covid-19 warriorsOdisha CM declares working journalists of the state as Frontline Covid Warriors. He said working journalists are doing a great service to State by providing seamless news feed, making people aware on COVID-related issues & they're great support for war against COVID: CMO pic.twitter.com/xymy7IEPaUOdisha CM says journalists are doing a great service to the state by providing seamless information to the people.3 new Covid-19 cases puts Australia's Perth at lockdown riskAustralia's fourth-largest city Perth may face a second snap lockdown as three people tested positive for Covid-19.PM Modi to review Covid-19 situationPrime Minister Modi will review the human resource situation, in relation to the #COVID19 pandemic, and ways to augment it.PM Modi will meet the nation's medical experts at 9:30am to review oxygen and medicine availability.More than 3,000 children in Pakistan got infected in AprilPak health ministry said that over 3,000 children in Pakistan between the age of 1 to 10 years tested positive for COVID-19 in April.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-india-world-latest-news-covid-19-death-toll-may-2-2021-101619927176728.html
02-05-2021||India||India’s Covid-19 tally crosses 19.5 million with 300,000 fresh cases, over 3,689 deaths||India on Sunday reported 392,488 cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, pushing the infection tally past the 19.5-million mark, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare. With this, India’s Covid-19 tally has risen to 19,557,457.The active caseload, which crossed the three-million-mark on Thursday, also surged by 80,934 and currently stands at 3,349,644. This accounts for 17.06% of the total confirmed cases in the country.According to the health ministry, 3,689 patients succumbed to the viral disease in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll to 215,542. As many as 307,865 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours and so far, 15,992,271 people have recovered from the viral disease, the health ministry’s dashboard showed at 8am. With this, the country’s recovery rate stands at 81.84%, the data also showed.Coronavirus cases saw a record surge on a day when four states and one Union territory awaited the verdict of the people.The Union ministry of health and family welfare on Sunday said 84,599 people in the age group of 18-44 have been administered the first dose of the coronavirus vaccine. The ministry said a total of 16,48,192 people have been vaccinated across the country against covid-19 on Saturday. Among them, 9,89,700 people were given the first dose and the remaining 6.85 lakh beneficiaries received their second dose of the coronavirus vaccine. The total tally of vaccinations across the country on the 106th day of the inoculation drive has crossed 15.66 crore.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Sunday said that 29,01,42,339 samples have been tested till May 1 for Covid-19. Of these, 18,04,954 samples were tested yesterday.The Union health ministry has red-flagged 10 states for contributing the highest number of infections to the national tally of active Covid-19 cases. The states include Maharashtra, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Kerala, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Chhattisgarh, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-covid-19-tally-crosses-19-5-million-with-300-000-fresh-cases-over-3-000-deaths-101619925601546.html
02-05-2021||India||Mystery of unused EVM found at Assam counting centre resolved by EC||The discovery of an unused electronic voting machine, found inside a trunk at a counting centre in Hailakandi district in Assam’s Barak Valley on Saturday, the eve of counting of votes for the assembly elections, led to initial tensions, which dissipated after an inquiry by election officials concluded that the EVM was a reserved unit which was incorrectly placed inside the trunk.The inquiry was conducted by district election officer, Megh Nidhi Dahal and returning officers, who rushed to the spot with some candidates in tow after the discovery of the EVM, said officials.The candidates’ concerns were assuaged after the EVM was opened in their presence to confirm that the reserved unit didn’t carry any votes. It was later deposited at the EVM warehouse adjacent to the office of the deputy commissioner, said Dahal.“The contesting candidates were satisfied that the EVM was a reserved EVM and no votes were polled therein. The machine was later taken to the EVM warehouse and kept under safe custody,” said Dahal.Counting of votes for Assam’s 126 assembly seats began on Sunday morning in the backdrop of exit poll predictions of a victory for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) led alliance in the state. Only one exit poll has predicted a close contest between the BJP-led front and the Congress-led opposition alliance.The BJP is in alliance with Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) and United People’s Party Liberal (UPPL), while the Congress is leading a 10-party alliance including All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) and Bodoland Peoples’ Party (BPF) as its major partners.On April 1, unrest was reported in nearby Karimganj district after an EVM, being carried to the strong room after polling in Ratabari seat, was found in a private vehicle owned by the wife of sitting BJP MLA from neighbouring Patharkandi seat, Krishnendu Paul.Though the EVM was found intact, EC suspended four poll officials for dereliction of duty and a re-poll was conducted at a polling station at Ratabari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mystery-of-unused-evm-found-at-assam-counting-centre-resolved-by-ec-101619926796299.html
02-05-2021||India||Senior journalist succumbs to Covid in Odisha; 12th such death in past month||A senior journalist Odisha-based journalist succumbed to Covid-19 in Bhubaneswar on Saturday, a day the state recorded a single-day surge of over 10,402 cases, taking the total number of active cases to 67,800.Pritiman Mohapatra, who was undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Bhubaneswar after testing positive for Covid 8 days ago, worked with Times of India. He was 48 and is survived by his mother, wife, and a daughter, all of whom have also tested positive.Mohapatra, an alumnus of Indian Institute of Mass Communication, Dhenkanal, worked with the Bhubaneswar edition of the newspaper. In his career, he had also worked with The New Indian Express, Bhubaneswar.With his death, the state has lost 12 journalists to Covid in the past one month. Two days ago, Debendra Samantaray, veteran journalist working with Odia daily Sambad in Sambalpur district, died. Other prominent journalists from the state to have succumbed to Covid are senior journalist Adwaita Prasad Biswal of Rourkela, Doordarshan (DD-2) anchor Bhanu Prakash Rath, Zee Odisha journalist Manas Ranjan Jaipuria, and Amjad Badshah.Also Read | Covid-19: What you need to know todayLast week, two journalists from Ganjam district succumbed to the disease. While 25-year-old Govinda Behera, a resident of Kukudakhandi block, was employed with news portal News 6, Manoj Sahoo, a resident of Chikiti block, was a reporter for Odia daily Nitidin.Last year, 15 journalists in the state had died of Covid.Media advisor to the state government, Manas Mangaraj, said all the journalists who have died this year will get the ₹15 lakh ex-gratia. “I have asked the director of information and public relations department to give the ex-gratia amount to the next of the kin of the deceased journalists in the week’s time,” he said.Mangaraj said the state government would take a decision on Sunday on vaccination of 9,613 working journalists in Bhubaneswar. “We have enough doses to take care of journalists in Bhubaneswar. But we do not have enough to vaccinate journalists in the rest of the state. Once we get that, we would vaccinate all the journalists who we see as frontline workers,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/senior-journalist-succumbs-to-covid-in-odisha-12th-such-death-in-past-month-101619925956234.html
02-05-2021||India||News updates from HT at 9 am: Parliament panel meetings stalled amid surge in Covid-19 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 AM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Parliament panel meetings stalled amid Covid-19 spikeThe recess between Parliament sessions is usually a hectic period for Indian parliamentary committees to hold meetings, summon witnesses or ready reports. But not this year. Read moreHospitals sound alarm again with oxygen perilously shortThe oxygen crisis in the national capital worsened on Saturday, with hospitals across the city sounding the alarm as their stocks ran low, on a day when at least 12 people died at Batra Hospital after an 80-minute disruption in oxygen supply. Read moreApple Music to get HiFi audio streaming support, hints iOS 14.6 beta codeNow that Apple is done releasing the much-awaited iOS 14.5 with new UI and privacy features to millions of iPhone users, it has started working on the next version. Read moreHina Khan feels helpless, quarantined for Covid-19 days after losing father: 'Can’t even be with mother to comfort her'Actor Hina Khan, who has tested positive for Covid-19, shared how helpless she feels as she cannot even hug and comfort her mother. Hina lost her father recently and rushed back from her shoot in Kashmir. Read more'Not trying to be too tough on bowlers, but catches do help’: MS Dhoni blames dropped catches for defeat against MIThe El Classic of the IPL, Mumbai Indians vs Chennai Super Kings clash lived up to the hype and expectations. In a high-scoring thriller, it was the defending champions who edged past their rivals by four wickets in a last-ball thriller in Delhi. Read moreIPL 2021, MI vs CSK: Pollard stars in MI's 4-wicket win over CSKKieron Pollard smashed 87* in 34 balls as Mumbai Indians beat Chennai Super Kings by 4 wickets in Indian Premier League match no. 27 in Delhi. MI kept losing wickets at regular intervals in the 219-run chase. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-am-parliament-panel-meetings-stalled-amid-surge-in-covid-19-and-all-the-latest-news-101619923349362.html
02-05-2021||India||From US to Germany: List of countries that have sent Covid aid to India so far||As a recent surge in coronavirus disease cases continues to plague India and choke its healthcare system, nations around the world have been rushing to help India alleviate the Covid-19 crisis. Several countries have promised to send shipments of Covid-19 relief material over the next few weeks.Coronavirus cases in India hit a record daily high on Saturday with over 400,000 infections in a span of 24 hours. With 401,993 fresh cases, India’s Covid-19 tally has risen to 19,164,969. According to the Union health ministry, as many as 3,523 patients succumbed to the viral disease in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll to 211,853.Here's a list of the countries that have started sending relief material to India:1. United States: The United States has so far sent three shipments of emergency relief material and several more are expected over the next week. The US has vowed to send supplies worth more than $100 million to assist India in its fight against the Covid-19 pandemic.2. United Kingdom: The United Kingdom has sent three shipments of over 400 oxygen concentrators to India so far. Ministry of external affairs spokesperson Arindam Bagchi tweeted photos of the equipment being unloaded in New Delhi.3. United Arab Emirates: The UAE has sent a consignment of Covid-19 relief material including 157 ventilators, 480 BiPAPs and other medical supplies to India. An Indian Air Force C-17 carrying six cryogenic oxygen containers from Dubai landed in Panagarh air base in West Bengal.4. Russia: Two Russian flights carrying oxygen concentrators, ventilators, medicines and other essential medical equipment landed in India earlier this week. “The Russian Federation decided to send humanitarian assistance to India in the spirit of the special and privileged strategic partnership between our two countries as well as in the context of our anti #COVID19 cooperation,” Ambassador of Russia to India Nikolay Kudashev said.5. Taiwan: Taiwan’s first batch of aid to India to help it fight a surging increase in Covid-19 infections left for New Delhi on Sunday, consisting of 150 oxygen concentrators and 500 oxygen cylinders, the country’s foreign ministry said.6. France: Amid the ongoing Covid-19 crisis, India on Sunday received several essential medical supplies and equipment from France to help fight the second wave of the coronavirus.7. Thailand: A special flight from Thailand carrying medical infrastructure landed in India on Saturday. The Thai consignment included 15 oxygen concentrators, to help address the shortage of medical oxygen in the country. This is the third such consignment to arrive in the country in the last one week. The Thai government has promised to send 100 oxygen cylinders to India.8. Romania: Romania has sent a consignment containing 80 oxygen concentrators and 75 oxygen cylinders to India on Friday.9. Ireland: Ireland has sent a shipment containing 700 units of oxygen concentrators and 365 ventilators to India on Friday.10.Bahrain: Bahrain has sent a shipment of 40 MT of liquid oxygen onboard INS Talwar to India on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-us-to-germany-list-of-countries-that-have-sent-covid-aid-to-india-so-far-101619921762343.html
02-05-2021||India||Assam assembly elections 2021: Counting begins in shadow of Covid-19 crisis||Counting of votes for Assam’s 126 assembly seats, contested by 946 candidates, has begun amid a nationwide crisis triggered by the second wave of Covid-19. Most exit polls have predicted a victory for the ruling party, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) led alliance, in the state.BJP fought the elections in alliance with Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) and United People’s Party Liberal (UPPL), while the Congress-led 10-party alliance includes All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) and Bodoland Peoples’ Party (BPF).Besides the two main fronts, another front comprising two new regional parties, Assam Jatiya Parishad and Raijor Dal, was also in the fray. Chief electoral officer Nitin Khade said the number of counting halls has been increased to 331, compared to 143 set up during 2016 polls, to ensure social distancing and other Covid-19 related standard operating procedures. 279 of these centres will handle electronic voting machines (EVM) and 52 will count postal ballots. “Strong security measures have been made to ensure smooth conduct of the Counting process. The linkage between [the] Strong Room and [the] Counting Hall will be maintained with strict security to avoid any untoward situation. There will be three tiers of security in respect of the counting venues,” Khade said in a statement. Khade added that the counting process was expected to take longer this time due to additional measures including greater number of EVMs and postal ballots used to help contain the spread of Covid-19.In 2016, there were a total of 29,173 postal votes for the entire state whereas, this time, the figure has increased by 414% to 150,033. In 2016, BJP won 60 seats to form the party’s first government in Assam with the support of AGP (14) and the BPF (12). Congress won only 26 seats and the AIUDF won 13. According to the India Today exit poll, BJP-led alliance was likely to win 75-85 seats and the front led by the Congress was likely to win 40-50 seats. News24-Chanakya predicted 70 seats to the front led by the BJP and 56 to the Congress-led alliance. The Republic-CNX poll predicted 74-84 seats for the BJP and 40-50 for the Congress, while the Times Now poll gave 72 seats to the BJP and 53 to the Congress. The ABP-CVoter poll predicted a close contest with 58-71 seats to the BJP-led alliance and 53-66 to the Congress-led front. The BJP maintains that it will win at least 85 seats, based on its own survey. The Congress has dismissed the exit polls as “biased” and “manipulated”, adding the party will form the next government in the state.In a statement issued late on Saturday evening, the Congress said it won’t send spokespersons to TV studios for debates related to election results due to the current Covid-19 crisis. However, the party said its spokespersons will be available to answer queries over phone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-assembly-elections-2021-counting-begins-in-shadow-of-covid-19-crisis-101619925176240.html
02-05-2021||India||Covishield production in full swing, says SII's Adar Poonawalla||Adar Poonawalla, CEO of Serum Institute of India (SII) on Saturday night said that the production of Covid-19 vaccine Covishield is in full swing in Pune.The SII CEO also held a meeting with his partners and stakeholders in the UK."Had an excellent meeting with all our partners & stakeholders in the UK. Meanwhile, pleased to state that COVISHIELD's production is in full swing in Pune. I look forward to reviewing operations upon my return in a few days," tweeted Poonawalla.In a major move, SII had reduced the price of its Covid-19 vaccine 'Covishield' from ₹400 to ₹300 per dose for states on Wednesday.The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Wednesday also provided Poonawalla with Y category security across the country by the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF).Earlier this month, Adar Poonawalla had asked the government for financial assistance to ramp up vaccine production.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covishield-production-in-full-swing-says-sii-s-adar-poonawalla-101619920504680.html
02-05-2021||India||‘Grateful to US for its support’: MEA on receiving 3rd Covid consignment||India on Sunday thanked the United States after it sent the third consignment of Covid-19 aid and said it is grateful to US for its support. "Another flight from the USA arrives in India carrying over 1000 oxygen cylinders, regulators, and other medical equipment. Third shipment in a period of 2 days adding to our oxygen capacities. Grateful to the USA for its support," Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) spokesperson Arindam Bagchi tweeted.🇮🇳 🇺🇸Cooperation with 🇺🇸 continues! Another flight from U.S.A. arrives carrying over 1000 oxygen cylinders, regulators & other medical equipment. Third shipment in a period of 2 days adding to our oxygen capacities. Grateful to 🇺🇸 for its support. pic.twitter.com/EVmf6tTCEXA flight from the USA carrying 1,000 oxygen cylinders, regulators and other medical equipment landed in India on Saturday night. Earlier on Friday, the US had dispatched the third set of its several emergency Covid-19 relief shipments to India.The first and second consignments of emergency Covid-19 aid, including hundreds of oxygen cylinders and regulators, sent by the US landed in India on Friday.The US sent help after its President Joe Biden assured to stand by India in its time of crisis. Biden spoke with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the Covid-19 situation. The interaction between the two leaders also came after the US, after facing criticism, lifted the embargo on the export of raw material needed by the Serum Institute of India (SII) to produce Covid-19 vaccine Covishield.Earlier this week, Biden reaffirmed that the US is determined to support India in its efforts to contain the pandemic during the talks. The United States will be sending supplies worth more than USD 100 million to India, including 1,000 refillable oxygen cylinders, 15 million N95 masks and 1 million rapid diagnostic tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/grateful-to-us-for-its-support-mea-on-receiving-3rd-covid-consignment-101619919064841.html
02-05-2021||India||Over 80k beneficiaries in 18-44 age group vaccinated so far: Govt||The ministry of health and family welfare has informed that as many as 84,599 beneficiaries of 18-44 age group have received their first dose of Covid-19 vaccine on the first day of the third phase of the nationwide vaccination drive.The ministry said that a total of 16,48,192 vaccine doses were given till 8pm on Saturday, the 106th day of the inoculation drive. The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country stands at 15,66,37,825.Those vaccinated include 94,28,060 Healthcare Workers (HCWs) who have taken the 1st dose, 62,64,919 HCWs who have taken the 2nd dose, 1,26,39,303 Frontline Workers (FLWs) (1st dose), 68,77,807 FLWs (2nd dose), and 84,599 for 18-44 years of age group (1st dose).5,32,80,782 people between the ages of 45 to 60 have received the first dose, while 40,08,078 have received the second. 5,26,13,700 for above 60 years (1st Dose) and 1,14,40,577 for above 60 years (2nd Dose).The Centre has advised the states and Union territories to set up help desks with the aid of volunteer groups, NGOs and CSOs, which can support in the management of patients admitted in the hospital effectively and facilitate better interaction between hospital staff and patients' attendants.As per the Union health ministry, the Central government along with states and Union territories through a 'Whole of Government' approach has embarked on a five-point strategy for prevention, containment and management of the Covid-19 situation in the country - Test, Track, Treat Covid appropriate behaviour and vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-80k-benefeciaries-in-18-44-age-group-vaccinated-so-far-govt-101619917561182.html
02-05-2021||India||Parliament panel meetings stalled amid Covid-19 spike||The recess between Parliament sessions is usually a hectic period for Indian parliamentary committees to hold meetings, summon witnesses or ready reports. But not this year.As the national capital and large parts of the country reel under renewed waves of Covid-19, many house committees had to cancel their meetings and no new meetings are planned.Parliament could work for only 34 days since the pandemic hit the country in March last year. The winter session had to be cancelled while three others were cut short. Now with the House panels’ work coming to a halt, Parliament’s potential and performance has been severely restricted amid the second wave of Covid-19 that so far has been the deadliest.The Labour panel, led by Bhartruhari Mahtab, planned to meet on April 23 to discuss cotton plantations and scheduled a study tour in April. “We had to cancel both. In my panel, at least 15-16 members are in the National Capital Region or Uttar Pradesh and can travel by road to any panel meeting. But some of them were reluctant to come for meetings,” said Mahtab.A meeting of the agriculture committee was similarly cancelled, said officials. Another meeting of the IT panel, led by Congress leader Shashi Tharoor, had to be cancelled. Usually, three to four meetings of various parliamentary committees are scheduled in a week. Now, the schedule in the portal of both Houses is blank.On Saturday, the chart for booking committee rooms for Rajya Sabha panels showed that not a single room has been booked for May, indicating that panel members are possibly waiting for the Covid-19 wave to subside before deciding to meet.Officials said while the situation is preventing some lawmakers in other states from travelling to Delhi, many parliamentary officials are working from home. “So, even if a panel wants to meet, proper arrangements for that meeting may be a challenge,” said a senior official.Karti Chidambaram, a member of the IT panel, said, “It’s very unfortunate that no meetings are taking place. We repeatedly requested Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu to allow online meetings. If the PM can hold cabinet meetings online, why can’t Parliament committees meet digitally?”Officials said so far, no proposal to allow digital meetings has been taken up at the top level. “But if the situation continues, authorities might have to consider allowing digital meetings of standing committees,” said a second official||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2nd-wave-of-covid-holds-up-parliamentary-panel-meets-101619895534077.html
02-05-2021||India||17 Covid patients, two nurses killed in fire at Gujarat hospital||At least 19 people, including 17 Covid patients, died after a fire at the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of a hospital in Bharuch district on Saturday, officials said. Two nurses were also killed in the incident.At least 27 patients were undergoing treatment in the ICU of Patel Welfare Hospital and nearly 60 other patients were admitted in other wards when the fire erupted at midnight, police said.The hospital is located on Bharuch-Jambusar highway, nearly 200 km from Ahmedabad.While the exact cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained, fire department officials suspect a leak in an oxygen cylinder may have led to the fire.The fire was controlled within an hour and around 50 patients were shifted to nearby hospitals, officials said.Officials in the fire department said that the building where the blaze erupted did not possess a no objection certificate (NOC) for fire safety.“The hospital has two buildings. While the one where the incident occurred, did not have an NOC, another building had the document,” Bharuch regional fire officer Deepak Makhija told reporters.Offering his condolences to the kin of the deceased, Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani announced an ex-gratia of Rs.4 lakh to the families of each of the deceased.“I express my condolences to those who lost their lives in the fire at Bharuch hospital. The state government will provide assistance of ₹4 lakh to the families of each of the victims of the accident,” the chief minister said. The state government has ordered a judicial inquiry into the incident.Two IAS officers, additional chief secretary (ACS), labour and employment, Vipul Mitra, and commissioner, municipalities administration, Raj Kumar Beniwal, were directed to probe the incident. The two have already left for Bharuch.Earlier on March 26, four patients died while shifting after a fire broke out at a hospital in Surat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/17-covid-patients-two-nurses-killed-in-fire-at-gujarat-hospital-101619893434586.html
02-05-2021||India||EC moves top court after HC says poll body was responsible for Covid surge||The Election Commission of India has moved the Supreme Court against Madras high court’s recent observations that the poll body was singularly responsible for the devastating second wave of Covid-19 in the country and that its officials should probably be tried on murder charges for allowing political parties to hold massive rallies without following norms.The Supreme Court will hear EC’s petition on Monday.The poll body approached the Supreme Court after it failed to secure a favourable order from the high court. On Friday, the high court refused to entertain EC’s application in this regard, saying that any such request will have to wait “in the light of the immediate measures that have to be put in place”.On April 26, the Madras high court made the scathing remarks against the EC during a hearing on a writ petition filed by Tamil Nadu transport minister MR Vijayabhaskar seeking a direction for safety measures and fairness during counting in Karur constituency from where he is contesting. “You are the only institution that is singularly responsible for the situation today...No action against political parties taking rallies despite court orders. Your election commission officials should be put up on murder charges probably,” the high court observed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ec-moves-top-court-after-hc-says-poll-body-was-responsible-for-covid-surge-101619893313924.html
02-05-2021||India||First batch of Sputnik V vaccine arrives in Hyderabad||The first consignment carrying 150,000 doses of the Russian Sputnik V vaccine has landed in Hyderabad, Dr Reddy’s Labs -- the licensed distributor of the vaccine in India -- announced on Saturday. The vaccine’s arrival is expected to boost India’s efforts to ramp up vaccination of its citizens even as limited supplies hit the third phase of the inoculation drive that started on May 1.“We are pleased to announce that the first consignment of 150,000 doses of the Sputnik V vaccine has landed in Hyderabad from Russia. The rollout of the consignment will be subject to the necessary clearances, which will be processed over the next few days. This initial quantity will be used across different channels as a pilot to line up our supply chain for the larger vaccination programme rollout,” said Dr Reddy’s Labs in a statement.Sputnik V was the third vaccine to be given approval in India after Oxford University-AstraZeneca’s Covishield and Bharat Biotech manufactured Covaxin.“... This is a reaffirmation of Dr Reddy’s commitment towards combating Covid-19 in India through our portfolio of therapeutics and vaccines,” said Deepak Sapra, chief executive officer, API and services, Dr Reddy’s Laboratories.The Russian Direct Investment Fund will supply about 125 million doses of the vaccine.On Saturday, France announced that it will provide India with 28 tonnes of medical equipment. A special cargo flight will reach New Delhi early on May 2 with the medical equipment worth more than Rs17 crore, including eight high capacity oxygen generator plants, the French embassy said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-batch-of-sputnik-v-arrives-in-hyderabad-101619893253971.html
02-05-2021||India||US exempts students, journalists from travel restrictions to India||he United States government has exempted students, academics, journalists and some individuals from the restrictions imposed on travel from India for an indefinite period from May 4.A statement from the US state department on Friday said that the exemptions were made by secretary of state Antony Blinken by extending the National Interest Exceptions already in place for travel from Brazil, China, Iran and South Africa. “In keeping with the Department of State’s commitment to facilitate legitimate travel to the United States, Secretary Blinken decided today to apply the same set of National Interest Exceptions to India that he had previously applied to all other regional travel restrictions currently in effect as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic,” the state department said.The Biden administration announced restrictions on travel from India earlier on Friday attributing the move to the “extraordinarily high Covid-19 caseloads and multiple variants circulating in India”.The travel restrictions have been imposed in the wake of US assistance to India to tackle the current wave of the pandemic which is expected to peak mid-May, with the Institute of Health Metrics and Evaluation of the University of Washington projecting over 960,000 deaths by August. India recorded 392,497 new cases and added 3,667 deaths on Saturday, taking its cumulative tally to 19,555,440 and toll to 215,522.Calling the situation in India “very, very serious”, Gayle Smith, the state department coordinator of US global effort on Covid-19, said, “India is reporting an increasing number of cases almost every day. And the crisis has not peaked yet. The way this happens in a surge is there’s a lag time between when people are infected, when they become sick, and when they may need care.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-exempts-students-journalists-from-travel-restrictions-to-india-101619893193950.html
02-05-2021||India||Shortage hits Phase 3 of Covid-19 vaccination drive||The third phase of the country’s vaccination drive witnessed a slow start on Saturday as several states complained of an acute shortage of vaccines for the people in the 18 to 44 age group, with many of them still to procure stocks directly from manufacturers to widen the country’s immunisation drive amid a raging second wave of infections.Only a few states including Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh began the drive in the districts with high caseloads. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said large-scale inoculation of people in the 18-44 age group will begin in the national capital only from Monday.In order to ramp up the vaccination drive, the government on April 19 announced a “liberalised and accelerated” phase 3 of vaccinations for people in the 18-44 age group to begin from May 1. As part of its guidelines for the third phase, the Centre allowed states to directly procure vaccines from manufacturers, including the two domestic producers -- Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech.While SII is manufacturing the Covishield vaccine, Bharat Biotech is producing the indigenously developed Covaxin. Both are double-dose vaccines.While most states have placed orders for the vaccines, officials in several states have complained of delays in supply.Click here for full coverage on coronavirusOfficials in Maharashtra said that the state government plans to administer nearly 350,000 doses over the next week. The state has set up only five vaccination centres in each district so that government gets time to arrange for more vaccines.State health minister Rajesh Tope said: “We have received around 350,000 doses and are expecting another stock of 1.3 million to 1.4 million stock for this month based on which we have started our vaccination for all adults up to 44 years of age.”In Mumbai, the vaccination drive started at five centres, with the limit of beneficiaries at one centre at 200.In Uttar Pradesh, chief minister Yogi Adityanath launched the vaccination drive at the Avantibai hospital in Lucknow. Officials said that a state plane was sent to Hyderabad to procure Covaxin doses from Bharat Biotech International Limited.The drive began in seven districts -- Lucknow, Kanpur, Prayagraj, Meerut, Gorakhpur, Bareilly, and Varanasi -- that have reported high caseloads. “Here, the active cases are high. Hence, we begin from these districts and more districts will get the benefit later,” said additional chief secretary (health) Amit Mohan Prasad on Friday.Other states such as Haryana, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Karnataka, did not begin the vaccination drive owing to non-availability of vaccines.The Madhya Pradesh government hopes to begin vaccinating the people over 18 years of age from May 3, state health minister Prabhuram Chaudhary said. “MP requires 3.4 crore vaccines for the people of 18 to 44 years of age group. Initially, we have placed an order of 45 lakh vaccines, which is likely to be received by May 2,” Chaudhary said.Haryana additional chief secretary (health) Rajeev Arora said that the state government has placed an order of 6.6 million vaccine doses which they plan to allot in a phased manner.Meanwhile in Bihar, the state health society’s executive director Manoj Kumar said that Pune-based SII has refused to provide a bulk supply of 10 million doses. “Instead, the institute wanted the state government to place [an order of] its monthly requirement. We are sorting out the issues,” he said.In Tamil Nadu, officials said an order for 15 million doses was placed on April 28 but they were unsure when the stock would arrive. “The issue is the same (by when vaccines could be provided) for everyone, we are looking to settle it. It will be tricky to say when we can start at this point,” said TS Selvavinayagam, director, directorate of public health and preventive medicine.Citing a shortage of vaccines, the Kerala government has decided to prioritise the second doses of beneficiaries until it receives a fresh supply.“We have asked for 50 lakh doses but got less than 10 lakh. Our priority is to give second dose to maximum people. We will start for young age group as and when we get enough jabs,” said state health minister KK Shailaja. The Kerala government has decided to buy at least 10 million doses (7 million Covishield and 3 million Covaxin) from manufacturers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shortage-hits-phase-3-of-vaccination-drive-101619893133991.html
02-05-2021||India||CBSE releases marking scheme for Class 10 students, results likely on June 20||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Saturday announced that Class 10 students will be marked on the basis of internal tests and assessments held throughout the year, days after it announced the cancellation of the board exams in view of the Covid-19 surge across the country. The results are likely to be announced on June 20, the board added.Usually, out of 100 marks for each subject, 20 marks are for internal assessments, which have already been tabulated by schools as per the existing policy, and the remaining 80 are for the year-end board examinations. The board has now announced that this 80-mark component will be calculated on the basis of different internal exams held during the year.The board has also certified the weightage that is to be given to each of these tests. For instance, period or unit test will have 10 marks, half-yearly or mid-term exams will be of 30 marks, whereas pre-board exams will be of 40 marks.CBSE Controller of Examination Sanyam Bhardwaj also directed composition of a ‘Result Committee’ in each school comprising of the school principal, five teachers from the school, and two external teachers from a neighbouring school.If schools have conducted more than one of the above mentioned tests, the result committee can decide the weightage of each test.“If any candidate has not appeared in any of the assessments conducted by the school, the school may conduct an offline/online or a telephonic one on one assessment and record documentary evidences to certify the recommendations,” Bhardwaj said. Since all schools will have a different question paper, the board has asked them to “internally moderate the marks to account for the school level variations by using a reliable reference standard.”Schools have said that they would be analyzing the circular in the coming days and work on it. Tania Joshi, principal of The Indian School, said that the board had laid out clear instructions with “well-defined” parameters which will help schools.“Including external teachers in result committee is a good step towards ensuring transparency. It will be a little cumbersome to manage everything including moderation and tabulation of marks. So we will hold a meeting among us to decide how to go about it. We will also be holding sessions with parents for their queries on the matter,” she said.For government schools, however, the notification comes with a concern due to the ongoing lockdown and rising cases.“The notification has come at critical juncture because cases are rising along with fatalities among teachers as well as their families. The board has asked us to form the result committee by May 5 and finalise the rationalize document by May 10. How can we do so with the ongoing lockdown and the fear of the disease with a shortage of beds and oxygen? CBSE should delay the process by a month,” said Awadhesh Kumar Kha, principal of Sarvodaya co-ed Vidyalaya in Rohini Sector 8, who lost a teacher to Covid on Saturday.Class 10 student Sudhanshu Poddar, who studies at a government school in Rohini, said, "We would have performed better in the board exams because students always take those more seriously than the internal exams. But considering the pandemic, I think this is the best possible situation. Still, I wish I could have appeared for my first board exam and scored higher marks."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbsereleases-marking-scheme-for-class-10-students-results-likely-on-june-20-101619892953955.html
02-05-2021||India||600 doctors of forces set to join Covid-19 fight, says Rajnath Singh||The armed forces are marshalling 600 additional doctors, including recalling retired military doctors, through special measures to help fight the unrelenting spread of the Covid-19 outbreak across the country, the military’s top brass told Union defence minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday.Singh reviewed the efforts of the defence ministry and the armed forces in the fight against the crisis, in a virtual meeting with the chief of defence staff, the three service chiefs, the defence secretary, the Defence Research and Development Organisation chief and others.According to a statement issued by the defence ministry, Singh was informed that the army has arranged more than 720 beds for civilians in various states and the navy has deployed 200 battlefield nursing assistants at various Covid hospitals. “As on May 1, the IAF carried out 28 sorties from abroad, airlifting 47 oxygen containers with a capacity of 830 MT. Within the country, it carried out 158 sorties, airlifting 109 containers with a capacity of 2,271 MT,” it said.Defence public sector undertakings are procuring 28 oxygen generating plants and other medical equipment worth ₹40 crore under their corporate social responsibility scheme to support several hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/600-doctors-of-forces-set-to-join-covid-fight-101619892833980.html
02-05-2021||India||Under pressure from powerful to give jabs: Adar Poonawalla||Serum Institute of India (SII) CEO Adar Poonawalla said on Saturday that he was under immense pressure to deliver Covid vaccines fast and even faced threatening calls from powerful people as the second wave of the pandemic rages through the country, indicating that his company would start producing doses outside the country as well.The pressure was what led him to fly to London to be with his wife and children, Poonawalla, 40, told British newspaper The Times in an interview. “I’m staying here (in London) for an extended time because I don’t want to go back to that situation. Everything falls on my shoulders but I can’t do it alone... I don’t want to be in a situation where you are just trying to do your job, and just because you can’t supply the needs of X, Y or Z you really don’t want to guess what they are going to do,” he was quoted as saying by The Times.“The level of expectation and aggression is really unprecedented. It’s overwhelming. Everyone feels they should get the vaccine. They can’t understand why anyone else should get it before them,” he added.The calls come from powerful people demanding instant supplies of Covishield, he said. “‘Threats’ is an understatement.”The businessman was provided “Y” category security by the government earlier this week in view of the threat perception to him. “Y” category security entails a posse of at least four armed commandos to guard the protected person all the time.Poonawalla indicated that the move to London was linked to business plans to expand vaccine manufacturing to countries outside India, including the UK.“There’s going to be an announcement in the next few days,” he said, when asked about Britain as one of the production bases outside India.The SII has been exporting Covishield to 68 nations, though the focus has now firmly shifted back to India given the enormity of the outbreak in recent weeks. “We’re really gasping for all the help we can get,” Poonawalla said. “I don’t think even God could have forecast it was going to get this bad,” he said. On a question as to who was to blame, Poonawalla said, “If I give you the right answer, or any answer, my head would be chopped off... I can’t comment on the elections or Kumbh Mela. It’s too sensitive.”(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/under-pressure-from-powerful-to-give-jabs-siichief-101619892774497.html
02-05-2021||India||UP panchayat elections: SC allows counting of votes after poll panel’s assurance||The Supreme Court on Saturday refused to stay the counting of votes for about 241,000 seats in the panchayat elections in Uttar Pradesh, starting Sunday, but asked the state government to notify officers who will be held responsible for any lapse regarding the compliance of Covid-19 guidelines and assurances.A bench of justices AM Khanwilkar and Hrishikesh Roy turned down a bunch of pleas against the counting of votes after the Uttar Pradesh government and the state election commission gave undertakings to comply with all safety guidelines and operating protocol against the spread of Covid-19.“The operating protocol mentioned therein is being and will be adhered to by all the stakeholders as well as duty holders without any exception,” recorded the bench in its order.It took on record submissions by additional solicitor general Aishwarya Bhati, who appeared for the state government and the election commission, that in addition to all other safety protocol issued by the commission on April 29 and 30, there will be a strict curfew in and around the counting centres till the counting of votes and the declaration of results are complete.“That will ensure that only the candidates and their authorised representatives would be able to visit/enter the counting centres and gathering of general public is avoided. Besides, no victory rally will be permitted throughout the state of Uttar Pradesh after the results are announced or during the counting process is in progress. This assurance is placed on record,” noted the court.“The state election commission has also agreed to notify the names of persons who will be in charge of the concerned counting centres and who will be made accountable for any lapse regarding compliance of the guidelines and the assurances recorded herein, at the given centres,” underlined the bench.It added that CCTV recordings at the designated counting areas and centres will be done and will be duly preserved till further directive of the Allahabad high court, where a related matter is pending.The court also made it mandatory for everyone entering the counting centres to produce negative Covid-19 test reports.During the proceedings, advocate Shoeb Alam, representing the petitioner, had produced a chart by UP Prathamik Shikshak Sangh, claiming more than 700 teachers lost their lives after they contracted Covid-19 during election service.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uppanchayat-elections-sc-allows-counting-of-votes-after-poll-panel-s-assurance-101619892773985.html
02-05-2021||India||Nirav Modi moves UK high court against his extradition||Fugitive businessman Nirav Modi has approached the UK high court, seeking permission to appeal against his extradition to India, people familiar with the matter said on Saturday.The people cited above said that Nirav Modi filed his initial grounds to seek permission for his appeal on April 28 -- the last day of the 14-day deadline from the home secretary’s approval to the extradition.A Westminster Magistrate Court in London ordered his extradition on February 25. The extradition was approved by the UK home secretary Priti Patel on April 15.The people cited above said that Nirav Modi has challenged both the Westminster court order as well as Patel’s decision.The UK high court will first decide whether to allow his appeal or not. “If allowed, Nirav Modi will file perfected grounds challenging the extradition and a proper bench will hear the arguments. However, this will take six months to a year,” said an officer familiar with the appeals procedure in the UK.His counsel Zulfiquar Memon denied a comment on Saturday.Ordering his extradition, Westminster district judge Sam Goozee said Nirav Modi has a case to answer in India as he is alleged to have, along with his brother Nehal Modi and others, defrauded the Punjab National Bank, laundered the money taken from it and conspired to destroy evidence and intimidate witnesses. The court also dismissed Nirav Modi’s contention that he won’t get a fair trial in India and that he was being targeted due to political reasons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nirav-modi-moves-uk-high-court-against-his-extradition-101619892713899.html
02-05-2021||India||Election Commission moves Supreme Court against Madras HC remarks||The Election Commission of India has moved the Supreme Court against Madras High Court’s recent observations that the poll body was singularly responsible for a second wave in the country and that its officials should probably be tried on murder charges for allowing political parties to hold massive rallies without following Covid-19 norms.The Supreme Court will hear the EC’s petition on Monday.The EC had approached the Supreme Court after it failed to secure any favourable order from the High Court where it wanted a directive that media should confine its reportage to written orders.On Friday, the High Court did not entertain EC’s application in this regard, saying that any such request will have to wait “in the light of the immediate measures that have to be put in place.”On April 26, the High Court made scathing remarks against the EC during a hearing on a writ petition filed by Tamil Nadu transport minister MR Vijayabhaskar seeking a direction for safety measures and fairness during counting in Karur constituency from where he is contesting.“You are the only institution that is singularly responsible for the situation today... No action against political parties taking rallies despite court orders. Your election commission officials should be put up on murder charges probably,” the High Court had observed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/election-commission-moves-supreme-court-against-madras-hc-remarks-101619889234290.html
02-05-2021||India||Gangster-politician Shahabuddin shifted from Tihar jail, dies in Delhi hospital of Covid-19||Gangster-politician Mohammad Shahabuddin who tested positive for Covid-19 nearly 10 days ago died in a Delhi hospital on Saturday, according to officials at Tihar prison where the former Rashtriya Janata Dal lawmaker had spent the last four years on orders of the Supreme Court.Tihar prison officials had shifted 53-year-old Shahabuddin to Deen Dayal Upadhyay hospital on April 21 after his condition deteriorated. The four-time parliamentarian from Bihar’s Siwan tested positive for the disease on April 20.This is the fifth death in five days of a Tihar prisoner due to the disease that has overwhelmed the health system in many parts of the country including national capital Delhi.Shahabuddin was brought to Tihar prison in February 2017 on the Supreme Court’s order on petitions by Siwan-based businessman Chandrakeshwar Prasad, whose three sons were killed in two incidents. Two of them were drenched in acid before they were killed. Asha Ranjan, the wife of journalist Rajdeo Ranjan who was murdered in Siwan, also pleaded that they would never get a fair trial as long as Shahabuddin was in a Bihar jail.In 2017 when the Supreme Court heard the case, he had 45 criminal cases against him.At Tihar prison, Shahabuddin was only one of the three prisoners who did not share space with other prisoners and are lodged in the most secure part of the jail. The other two are underworld gangster Chhota Rajan and Delhi gangster Neeraj Bawana.Prison officers suspect Shahabuddin may have been infected with the virus through an asymptomatic jail officer.The death of four prisoners prompted Tihar Jail authorities on Thursday to ask the Delhi government to release prisoners under “emergency parole” help decongest the overcrowded prison.Tihar, the country’s largest prison complex with over 20,000 prisoners, has over 260 prisoners and 115 jail officers who have tested positive, up from just 19 infected prisoners just four weeks back.A petition that seeks parole for prisoners in the three city jails if they face charges of non-heinous offences is also pending in the Delhi high court. Last week, a bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jasmeet Singh asked the central and state government to respond to this request by May 4.Last year, nearly 6,000 prisoners were released on special parole and bail to decongest the jail when the pandemic first started spreading in March. With cases declining after the third wave of the infection in October-November, the Delhi high court in December ordered the prisoners to surrender in a phased manner between February and March.Until February, the prison population was less than 13,000. However, with over 6,000 inmates back in jail, the total number of inmates went beyond 20,500, twice the jail’s capacity of 10026. Officials said it is the highest population of inmates in the jail till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/gangsterpolitician-shahabuddin-shifted-from-tihar-jail-dies-in-delhi-hospital-101619861932878.html
02-05-2021||India||For India, Chinese firms to deliver 40,000 oxygen generators||Chinese companies are working around-the-clock to meet the demand of 40,000 oxygen generators from India, ambassador Sun Weidong has said, adding many organisations are using private channels to extend help to India.“As far as I know, Chinese companies have been accelerating production of at least 40,000 oxygen generators - orders placed by the Indian side, and they are working around the clock to deliver them as soon as possible. Many Chinese firms and private organisations are also using their own channels to provide various [forms of] help to India,” Sun, the Chinese ambassador to India, told Global Times, in an interview.In April, China supplied more than 5,000 ventilators, 21,569 oxygen generators, over 21 million masks and around 3,800 tons of medicine to India, Sun said, citing the statistics of the General Administration of Customs of China.On Friday, President Xi Jinping sent a message of condolence to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, saying as a close neighbour and partner, China understands the challenges India is facing and is ready to provide support and assistance to the best of its ability.Soon after on Friday, Chinese official media said state councilor and foreign minister Wang Yi had a telephone conversation with external affairs minister, S Jaishankar, saying China is very concerned about the new round of Covid-19 surge in India.Wang added China is willing to take the following measures according to India’s needs: “First, China will continue to encourage and support Chinese enterprises to speed up production and provide anti-epidemic materials to India. Second, facilitate customs clearance and transportation of anti-epidemic materials purchased by the Indian side. Third we will organise video exchanges between health and epidemic prevention experts of the two countries to share experience and effective measures in fighting the epidemic.”The Chinese minister said China supports India’s efforts and will ensure that all the required materials “flow to Indian entities without any delay”.Chinese companies will be supported to deliver the materials, and airports, customs and airlines will be instructed to smoothly facilitate the movement of goods, he said.Jaishankar appreciated Xi’s message of condolence to Modi, thanking the Chinese side for showing goodwill and unity, and for providing strong support for the Indian side in purchasing anti-epidemic supplies.Jaishankar said Indian entities were commercially procuring products and raw materials required for the Covid-19 response from suppliers in China. Jaishankar said “this process would be facilitated if various transport corridors and cargo flights remained open and the necessary logistics support [was] ensured expeditiously,” according to a statement from the external affairs ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/for-india-chinese-firms-to-deliver-40-000-oxygen-generators-101619860192783.html
