03-05-2021||India||Delhi reports 18,043 new Covid-19 cases, positivity rate at 29.56%||Delhi recorded 18,043 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases on Monday and 448 deaths which pushed the total number of cases in the city to 1,212,989 and the death toll to 17,414. The positivity rate- the rate at which people getting tested for Covid-19 receive positive results- stood at 29.56 per cent, according to the state health bulletin. A total of 61,045 tests were conducted on Monday and the number of active cases in the city currently stands at 89,592.As many as 20,293 patients recovered from the virus during the period and the number of containment zones in the city rose to 44,052 from 42,098 the previous day, the bulletin showed.On Sunday, Delhi reported 20,394 new Covid-19 cases and 407 fatalities while the positivity rate stood at 28 per cent.Read more: Manish Sisodia writes to Rajnath Singh seeking Army's help to fight Covid-19 in DelhiDelhi is currently under lockdown till May 10 as the city’s health care infrastructure continues to remain overwhelmed. Hospitals in the city have been facing a dire shortage of medical oxygen, beds as well as medicines. During the period of the lockdown, only essential activities, including the sale and supply of food items, groceries, medicines, etc, are allowed. However, there are no restrictions on the movement of health care workers, frontline workers, government staff, judicial officials, journalists and those seeking medical attention.Read more: 25 flights, 300 tonnes cargo: How Delhi airport handled Covid relief over 5 daysIndia on Monday recorded 368,147 new Covid-19 cases which pushed the country's total infection tally to 19,925,604, according to the Union health ministry's dashboard at 8am. 3,417 related fatalities were reported in the same period which took the nationwide death toll to 218,959. The active coronavirus caseload in the country stood at 3,413,642 which accounts for 17.13% of the total confirmed Covid-19 cases in the country. As many as 300,732 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours and the total recoveries in the country stood at 16,293,003 and the recovery rate stood at 81.77%, the bulletin showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-reports-18-043-new-covid-19-cases-positivity-rate-at-29-56-101620050976261.html
03-05-2021||India||Ready to get to work in support of US-India partnership, says newly-appointed US envoy||Newly-appointed US Charge d'Affaires to India, Daniel B Smith on Monday said that he is ready to get to work in support of the US-India partnership.As India is facing the second wave of Covid-19, he stressed that just as India helped the US, the US will stand with India."Namaste, I'm Dan Smith, the new Charge d'Affaires at the US Mission in India. These are difficult times, but I'm ready to get to work in support of the #USIndia partnership. Just as India helped the US, the US will stand with India. I look forward to working with you all," Smith tweeted.Ambassador Daniel Smith, the former US acting Secretary of State, on Friday (local time) appointed as Charge d'Affaires at United States embassy in New Delhi.Earlier, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar spoke to US Secretary of State Antony Blinken on Covid-19 situation in India and reviewed the flow of equipment and material from the United States.US State Department spokesperson Ned Price also informed that the both leaders reaffirmed the strength of the US-India partnership in the face of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ready-to-get-to-work-in-support-of-us-india-partnership-says-newly-appointed-us-envoy-101620063662323.html
03-05-2021||India||Finance ministry clarifies no consignment of 3,000 oxygen concentrators lying with customs department pending clearance||The Union ministry of finance on Monday clarified that no consignment of 3,000 oxygen concentrators is pending clearance from the customs authorities. The ministry confirmed it after checking with its field formations and also sought information on the whereabouts of the consignment.In a press release, the ministry said, “The matter regarding a consignment of 3,000 Oxygen Concentrators lying with Customs Authorities came up in the Hon’ble Delhi High Court and the same was clarified by the Government Counsel that presently no such consignment is pending with Custom Authorities.”“However, the social media has been flooded with the news that 3,000 Oxygen Concentrators are lying with Customs. We have again checked with our field formations and there is no such consignment lying with the Customs. However, since a photograph has also been put on the twitter, if anybody has information as to where it is lying, the same may be informed to us and we will take immediate action,” it further added.The Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) also tweeted along the same lines on Monday, echoing the ministry’s statement about the consignment lying uncleared with the customs department.Press Note regarding news reports about pendency of 3000 oxygen concentrators with Indian Customs. @PIB_India pic.twitter.com/WzMqCX0Z7YDemand for oxygen concentrators ballooned during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic due to the increasing number of patients in the hospitals. Many countries have sent the critical equipment as part of their relief packages to support India’s efforts against the coronavirus disease. The concentrators are also one among the list of equipment exempted from basic customs duty and health cess by the central government.Earlier in the day, the finance ministry also announced that Covid-19 relief materials imported free of cost from outside India would be exempted from the integrated goods and services taxes (IGST). The exemption will be valid till June 30, 2021, and all such goods lying uncleared as of date would also be covered by the exemption, the ministry noted.The ministry also directed the state governments to appoint a nodal officer for availing the exemption. "The Nodal authority so appointed shall authorise any entity, relief agency or statutory body, for free distribution of such Covid-relief material," the ministry noted in its order.In the latest development, the CBIC has tweeted a clarification to a news report saying "consignment shown in image was found to be import of 842 packets from Hong Kong by Indigo flight on 30.04.2021 which includes 300 oxygen concentrators & cleared by @Delhicustoms within hours. Any other pending COVID19 supplies may be brought to notice"With reference to news item, consignment shown in image was found to be import of 842 packets from Hong Kong by Indigo flight on 30.04.2021 which includes 300 oxygen concentrators & cleared by @Delhicustoms within hours. Any other pending COVID19 supplies may be brought to notice https://t.co/xv4hRne1giEarlier on May 1, the centre has revised the Foreign Trade Policy, 2015-2020 and permitted the import of oxygen concentrators for personal use amid a massive surge in Covid-19 cases in the country. The oxygen concentrators have been added to the list of exempted categories, where customs clearance is sought as ''gifts". However, the exemption is allowed till July 31, 2021, for personal use, according to a notification of the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) issued on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/finance-ministry-clarifies-no-consignment-of-3-000-oxygen-concentrators-lying-with-customs-department-pending-clearance-101620061418089.html
03-05-2021||India||Oxygen SOS: How states are tackling crippling crisis amid Covid-19 surge||Various state governments continue to send emergency help messages to the Union health ministry for medical oxygen as hospitals report running at capacity, unable to tackle the surge in Covid-19 patients, officials said.The Central health ministry increased the allocation of liquid medical oxygen to several states in the past week since the demand for the life-saving gas spiked in most states due to the increase in Covid-19 cases. Some states said the quota of oxygen provided to them was not enough.In Meerut, family members of patients went on a rampage, damaging furniture, monitors, at Nutema hospital on Sunday after five Covid-19 affected patients allegedly died due to low pressure of oxygen during the treatment."We have formed a committee to investigate the matter and action would be initiated on the findings of the committee," said district magistrate K Balaji, adding that the administration was providing oxygen cylinders to the hospitals.Dr Manisha Tyagi, secretary of district unit of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), said it was the third hospital where family members went on a rampage after their patients were denied admission due to heavy load in the hospital or some died due to paucity of oxygen.In Agra also, family members of patients thrashed hospital staff when the supply of oxygen got disrupted. Reports of oxygen shortage were received from several other districts in Uttar Pradesh such as Noida, Lucknow, Bareilly, Agra and Varanasi but the officials said there was no panic.In Haryana, there were reports of oxygen shortage from some hospitals in Gurugram, Rohtak and Karnal but districts did not report any shortage. The state's quota has been increased from 162 million tonnes per day to 257 million tonnes, however, the state government is demanding 300 MT every day. Chief minister Manohar Lal Khatter said all districts were being provided oxygen as per their requirement.According to locals, patients in Rohtak were struggling to find oxygen and ICU beds at the Post-graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak, and at various private hospitals in Rohtak, Jhajjar, Sonepat, Hisar, Rewari and other parts of the region.Neeraj Kumar, a resident of Kathura village in Sonepat, said he tried to get an oxygen bed for his father, a retired army personnel, for three days. “Despite all efforts, we did not get a bed in Rohtak, Jhajjar and Sonepat. Finally, my father’s friends helped in getting a bed at the army hospital, Ambala, where he is undergoing treatment,” he added. A functionary at the PGIMS said all oxygen and ICU beds are occupied and they are unable to admit new patients.In Bihar, the state government has approved Oxygen Production Policy 2021 providing financial assistance for establishing oxygen manufacturing plants as several hospitals continued to report a shortage of the crucial gas. Bihar has been allotted 194 MT of medical oxygen every day which was increased to 214 MT on May 2. Out of this, 34 MT is to be obtained from the Air Separation Units (ASU) functional in the state whereas the rest is to come from industrial units in neighbouring Jharkhand and West Bengal.The West Bengal government did not report any shortage of oxygen. "There is no shortage of oxygen in hospitals in West Bengal. Around 105 hospitals up to the sub-division level have been equipped with piped oxygen. We have 12,500 such beds where patients can receive round the clock oxygen supply," said West Bengal health secretary NS Nigam.Seven districts in Jharkhand had informed the state government about the oxygen shortage. In Ranchi, some private hospitals stopped taking patients as very little oxygen was left. In Jamshedpur, hospitals stopped admission of new patients despite having vacant Covid-19 beds for want of oxygen, officials said.In Rajasthan, several hospitals reported a shortage of oxygen including Sania Hospital, the biggest private hospital in Alwar. On Monday, the hospital put a notice asking patients to arrange for oxygen themselves as they did not receive the supply.Behror resident Ved Prakash Gupta, whose brother Hitesh Gupta is admitted to the hospital, said the hospital administration told them that the hospital has no medical oxygen left, hence they should take the patients to some other hospital. Another person, Sachin Sharma, came all the way from Uttar Pradesh to get his sister-in-law treated at the hospital.Sania Hospital's CEO, Dr Tayyab Khan said the hospital has received 10 oxygen cylinders from the district administration as against the requirement of 150 every day. Behroro MLA, Sanjay Sharma they were trying to get oxygen for the hospital.The Madhya Pradesh government officials said the state requires about 700 MT oxygen but was getting 564 MT. In absence of enough oxygen, officials said, they are not able to increase the number of oxygen beds in high Covid influx cities such as Bhopal, Gwalior, Indore, Ujjain and Jabalpur. Many private hospitals are not admitting new patients as there is no certainty about the oxygen supply.State health commissioner Akash Tripathi said the private hospitals have been told to do a daily audit of oxygen consumption and inform the district administration about the shortage of oxygen at least 6 hours in advance so that necessary arrangements can be made on time. As per reports, close to 60 Covid 19 infected patients admitted to hospitals died due to a shortage of oxygen in the past week.There were reports of no oxygen shortage from hospitals in Punjab, Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal and Uttarakhand. Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Monday said more oxygen tankers would be available to the state by Tuesday to transport oxygen supplies from other states. Punjab has a 195 MT allocation from various plants in other states but the actual supply over the past 7 days has been around 110-120 MT daily, which has also been erratic, the CM said during a Covid-19 review meeting.J&K LG Manoj Sinha on Sunday directed officials to conduct an oxygen audit in every hospital of the UT. Himachal Pradesh government has ordered installation plants at the primary hospitals of the state even though the state has 62 MT of oxygen as against the demand of 22 MT, said state health secretary Amitabh Awasthi, adding that the state was facing a shortage of empty oxygen cylinders.Uttarakhand health secretary Amit Negi said six oxygen plants are operating and nine more will be set up soon.Chhattisgarh has not witnessed any shortage of oxygen in the state till now. As per health department officials, the state produces 380 MT of oxygen per day and the demand of the state is around 170-175 MT daily. The state is supplying around 230 MT to other states including Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oxygen-sos-how-states-are-tackling-crippling-crisis-amid-covid-19-surge-101620058543226.html
03-05-2021||India||Know if you need to get hospitalised for Covid-19. Health ministry lists symptoms, warning signs||The Union ministry of health and family welfare on Monday listed the warning signs and symptoms of when a patient who tested positive for coronavirus disease needs to be hospitalised.The ministry said that a patient in home isolation needs to be hospitalised if their oxygen level is falling or if they are having chest pain.“Falling oxygen saturation (below 93), excessive fatigue or chest pain are warning signs indicating that a patient in home isolation may need hospitalisation. Thus, such patients should stay in touch with a doctor and high-risk group people having comorbidities also need to take special care,” news agency PTI quoted director of All India Institute of Medical Science (Aiims) Dr Randeep Guleria as explaining.Dr Guleria’s comments came at a time when many hospitals in the country are tackling a high number of Covid-19 patients and reporting non-availability of ICU and oxygen beds.Also read | '1 CT scan is equivalent to 300 chest X-rays', Guleria warns against cancer riskEarlier, on April 28, the Union health ministry released the revised guidelines regarding the home isolation of mild and asymptomatic cases of the coronavirus infection. The ministry had asked the mildly infected patients to confine themselves to self-isolation and to constantly monitor their health and important parameters such as temperature, heart rate, SpO2 per cent and breathing.On Monday, the ministry in a series of tweets explained the varying severity of the disease and the symptoms exhibited for seeking immediate medical attention.The ministry advised those with mild disease to seek immediate medical attention if difficulty in breathing is experienced or if a high-grade fever or severe cough persists for more than five days. It also asked such patients to stay in contact with physicians treating them for the disease.Meanwhile, patients with moderate infection having respiratory rate greater than 24 per minute, breathlessness and oxygen saturation level between 90 and 92 per cent have been advised for an admission in a medical ward.Patients with severe infection having respiratory rate greater than 30 per minute, breathlessness and oxygen saturation level less than 90 per cent have been advised to be admitted in ICU.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/know-if-you-need-to-get-hospitalised-for-covid-19-health-ministry-lists-symptoms-warning-signs-101620057425357.html
03-05-2021||India||Gujarat records 12,820 fresh Covid-19 cases; caseload climbs to 607,422||The number of Covid-19 cases in Gujarat reached 607,422 on Monday after 12,820 people were detected with the infection, while the day also saw 140 deaths and 11,999 people getting discharged, an official said.The state's toll stands at 7,648 and the recovery count is 452,275, the official said, pointing out that the daily addition of cases and deaths were on the decline, while the number of people getting discharged was rising.The state's active caseload is 147,499, of which 747 are on ventilator support."Ahmedabad reported 4,671 cases, Surat 1,656, Vadodara 936, Jamnagar 712, Bhavnagar 571, Rajkot 524, Gandhinagar 317, and Junagadh 280. Ahmedabad also led in the number of deaths with 26, followed by 16 in Rajkot, 14 in Vadodara and 13 in Surat," the official said.A release said 12,573,211 Covid-19 vaccination doses had been administered so far, with 26,31,820 patients being given the second dose as well.The number of people covered in the 18-44 segment on Monday was 27,272, it added.In neighbouring Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Daman and Diu, the Covid-19 tally rose to 8,139 with 119 new cases, while the recovery count increased by 226 to touch 6,312.The UT has seen four deaths from the infection so far and has an active caseload of 1,829, an official said.Gujarat's Covid-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 607,422, new cases 12,820, death toll 7,648, discharged 4,52,275, active cases 147,499, people tested so far - figures not released.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-records-12-820-fresh-covid-19-cases-caseload-climbs-to-607422-101620056591212.html
03-05-2021||India||Tanzanian mission's defence adviser dies of Covid-19 in Delhi||The defence advisor at the high commission of Tanzania has died of Covid-19, the first death within the diplomatic community in New Delhi amid the devastating second wave of Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infections sweeping across the country.Col Moses Beatus Mlula was taken to a leading private hospital of New Delhi in a serious condition on April 27 but it declined to admit him, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. The Tanzanian mission reached out to the Indian Army, which rushed Mlula to the Base Hospital at Delhi Cantonment, currently a Covid-19 facility catering to military personnel, veterans and their dependents.Mlula died at the Base Hospital in the afternoon of April 28, the people said. The Tanzanian mission acknowledged his death in a message circulated among foreign missions, UN agencies and international organisations. The mission also opened an online condolence book for messages that will be open till May 3.The people cited above said there were reports of Indian staff and junior diplomats testing positive at several foreign missions, including those of the Philippines, New Zealand, Thailand, Vietnam, Palestine, the US and Afghanistan. Some of those who tested positive were self-isolating at home while a handful had been admitted to hospitals.There was no official word from Indian officials on these developments.The foreign missions too are tight-lipped on issues such as whether the treatment of those who have tested positive has been affected by the shortage of oxygen and hospital beds for Covid-19 cases, especially after a spat between the government and the opposition Congress over Youth Congress volunteers delivering oxygen cylinders to the Philippines embassy and the New Zealand high commission.After the Youth Congress posted videos of its members delivering cylinders to both missions, external affairs minister S Jaishankar tweeted that the opposition party was indulging in “cheap publicity”. He contended there were no Covid-19 cases at the Philippines embassy and the delivery of oxygen cylinders amounted to “unsolicited supply”.The New Zealand mission deleted a tweet that tagged the Youth Congress and asked for help in obtaining oxygen cylinders. The mission apologised in a subsequent tweet and said it had been “trying all sources to arrange for oxygen cylinders urgently”.When New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern was asked in a television interview whether it was proper for the mission to approach an opposition party, she said the high commission should have used “normal channels and protocols” but acknowledged that oxygen was needed for an Indian staff member who was "very unwell".“There are channels that they can and should be going through for such matters, but I should recognise that we do have a local staff member who’s within the compound, who has been very unwell. That was the basis on which that call was made,” Ardern said.The people cited above acknowledged that some missions had faced difficulties in accessing both medicines and hospital beds but pointed out that this should be seen in the overall context of healthcare facilities in Delhi and the National Capital Region being swamped by the sudden surge in Covid-19 infections.Some missions have come together to create informal WhatsApp groups to exchange the latest information on the availability of ICU beds and medicines such as the antiviral medication Remdesivir, the people said.External affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said on Sunday that the ministry’s chief of protocol and heads of regional divisions are in touch with all foreign missions to respond to their medical demands related to Covid-19. “This includes facilitating their hospital treatment,” he had said....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tanzanian-mission-s-defence-adviser-dies-of-covid-19-in-delhi-101620057348415.html
03-05-2021||India||Navy chief lists initiatives against Covid-19 during PM meet; to open up its hospitals for civilians||As India struggles against the fatal second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) the armed forces have also stepped up their measures to manage the situation. The Indian Navy is opening up its naval hospitals for use of civilians in various cities, Chief of Naval Staff Admiral Karambir Singh informed Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday.Admiral Singh also apprised the Prime Minister of other initiatives being undertaken by the Navy to better handle the devastating Covid-19 situation in the country as the massive leap in the number of infections has brought the healthcare infrastructure to its knees.Also read: Delhi to receive 205 tonnes of liquid oxygen in Railways’ biggest single-day loadTo assist the country in such unprecedented times, the Navy has redeployed medical personnel at various locations to manage Covid duties, Admiral Singh briefed PM Modi. The Navy is also providing aid to increase oxygen availability in Lakshadweep as well as in the Andaman & Nicobar Islands, he added, according to a statement from the Prime Minister's office.The Navy is also transporting oxygen containers as well as other supplies from Bahrain, Qatar, Kuwait and Singapore to India, Singh briefed the Prime Minister. "Indian Navy has reached out to all state administrations and have offered help in terms of hospital beds, transportation and other such things," Admiral Singh told PM Modi as per the statement.The Indian Air Force is already at the task of transporting oxygen containers from different parts of the world to the country to boost the supply of the life-saving gas. The IAF's heavy-lift transport aircraft on Monday airlifted four empty cryogenic oxygen containers from Frankfurt in Germany and landed in Hindon base in New Delhi.The forces have also rolled out an operation called ‘CO-JEET’ towards its efforts towards fighting coronavirus by boosting medical infrastructure and oxygen supply chains.Also read: 600 doctors of forces set to join Covid-19 fight, says Rajnath SinghUnder ‘CO-JEET’ the personnel of the three wings of the armed forces – the Army, the Air Force and the Navy – have been pressed into service to help restore oxygen supply chains, set up Covid beds and provide help to the civilian administration in its fight to control the pandemic," PTI quoted Deputy Chief of Integrated Defence Staff (Medical) Lieutenant General Dr Madhuri Kanitkar, as saying.More than 368,000 new Covid-19 cases pushed the active cases tally to over 3.4 million on Monday. With a fatality rate of 1.1%, the country lost 3,417 lives due to the viral disease in the last 24 hours, as per the Union health ministry data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/navy-chief-lists-initiatives-against-covid-19-during-pm-meet-to-open-up-its-hospitals-for-civilians-101620051944661.html
03-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Delhi to get 205 tonnes of oxygen in Railways' biggest one-day load and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi to receive 205 tonnes of liquid oxygen in Railways’ biggest single-day loadDelhi is scheduled to receive around 205 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen on Tuesday morning as the Union ministry of railways has deployed 10 tankers onboard two Oxygen Express trains. Read more'Blood on your hands, how dare you': Michael Slater slams Australian PM for ban on citizens returning from IndiaFormer Australia cricketer on Monday took to Twitter to slam Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison and his government for slapping a ban on Australian citizens returning from India after the culmination of the ongoing IPL 2021 season. Read morePriyanka Chopra champions Sonu Sood's appeal for kids who lost parents to Covid-19, calls him 'visionary philanthropist'Actor Priyanka Chopra has shared a recent video message posted by Sonu Sood on social media. In it, Sonu had appealed to the Indian government to make all education free for any child who has lost their parents to Covid-19. Read more‘I may be murdered…’: Mamata reads out Nandigram poll officer’s alleged messageMamata Banerjee continued to cry foul over the election result of Nandigram where she lost to BJP’S Suvendu Adhikari by under 2000 votes. Mamata alleged that the returning officer of Nandigram was threatened against recounting of votes. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-delhi-to-get-205-tonnes-of-oxygen-in-railways-biggest-one-day-load-and-all-the-latest-news-101620054642830.html
03-05-2021||India||Chhattisgarh CM urges finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman for assistance to small, medium businesses||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Monday urged Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman to provide financial assistance for the small and medium businessmen across state.On request of the Chhattisgarh Chamber of Commerce and Industries, Baghel has written a letter to Union Minister and demanded to postpone the due date of filing various kinds of returns in April and May for two months. In addition, Baghel also requested Union Minister to consider the extension of the deadline for principal and interest installments against business loans by at least three months, considering their problems due to the state being a 'containment zone'.As a final and effective measure to contain the second and more fatal wave of Covid pandemic in Chhattisgarh, all the districts of the state including Raipur have been declared as containment zones from April 9 to May 6 morning. Subsequently, the economic and business activities have been withheld in the state. As a result, small and medium category businessmen of the state are facing a financial crisis.Chhattisgarh Chamber of Commerce and Industries has demanded certain immediate relief to help them overcome this crisis.Baghel has stated in the letter that as April is the first month of the financial year 2021-22, the due date for obligations under TDS and And TDS Act is scheduled for this month. However, the economic activities in the state have been suspended for Covid-19 containment, because of which the businessmen are finding it difficult to tally their accounts and file returns in the given time period before the due date.The employees in their offices, establishments such as accountants, data entry operators, management staff are either home-isolated or in hospital due to Covid infection. Likewise, various advisors of the businessmen such as Chartered Accountant, Company Secretary, Tax Advisor are also suffering from Covid-19 and unable to provide their services. Considering the aforementioned situation, Chamber has requested for postponement of the last dates to file various returns by two months.Chief Minister has mentioned that the cash flow of businesses and industries in the state has got adversely affected due to the suspension of economic and business activities in the state at present. Hence, considering the time it may take for the current situation to improve, businessmen are having an extremely tough time returning the principal and interest amount against the business loans taken from various banks and financial institutions. Chamber has demanded a moratorium period of at least three months to pay the installments of the principal amount and the interest against the business loans. State Government completely agrees with both the demands of Chhattisgarh Chamber of Commerce and both the subjects are related to the jurisdiction of your ministry, stated Chief Minister in the letter.He requested the Union Minister to sympathetically consider the problems of small and medium businessmen of the state in this critical time of the disaster, and take urgent positive steps on these justified demands. These measures would prove quite helpful in providing the desired relief to the businessmen of the state in the current financial year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-cm-urges-finance-minister-nirmala-sitharaman-for-assistance-to-small-medium-businesses-101620048450018.html
03-05-2021||India||Delhi to get 205 tonnes of liquid oxygen in Railways’ biggest single-day load||Delhi is scheduled to receive around 205 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen on Tuesday morning as the Union ministry of railways has deployed 10 tankers onboard two Oxygen Express trains. This is railways’ biggest single-day load since the special operation to ferry oxygen tankers began amid the shortage, the ministry said.¨Railways is set to deliver its biggest single-day load of nearly 205 tonnes to Delhi by tomorrow morning,” the ministry said in a statement on Monday. One train from Durgapur, West Bengal ferrying 120 tonnes of liquid oxygen is scheduled to reach the national capital’s Tughlakabad railway station on Tuesday at 9:30 am while another, ferrying 85 tonnes of liquid oxygen, will reach Gurugram via Hapa, Gujarat, the ministry said.The train from Hapa will halt at Gurgaon and the LMO will be transferred to trucks of the Delhi government and taken to the city, officials clarified.The move is expected to give a breather to the national capital which is struggling with an acute shortage of oxygen supply for the past few weeks. Several hospitals in Delhi sent out desperate calls to authorities to replenish their oxygen supplies when they dropped precariously, threatening lives as the health infrastructure was crumbling under the pressure of an unprecedented rise in the number of Covid-19 patients requiring oxygen or ICU support.Till Sunday, Delhi received 454 MT of oxygen against its increased quota of 590 MT. The Delhi government has demanded a total of 976 MT of medical oxygen to add 1,200 ICU and 15,000 oxygen beds. Till Monday, the national capital received 190 tonnes of liquid oxygen from Oxygen Express trains, with Tuesday's supply Delhi would have received 395 tonnes of LMO in total through the trains.The ministry also said one ‘Oxygen Express’, carrying 30.86 tonnes of LMO will arrive in Delhi from Angul in Odisha by Monday evening. But this lot is meant for supply in Haryana, it clarified.Last week, the central government directed states to ensure free movement of vehicles carrying liquid oxygen amid reports of some states diverting the vehicles for local use even as hospitals sent out frantic appeals for emergency supplies.“EG 2 group decides oxygen pipeline for states. The Empowered Group 2 (EG2, a group formed by the PMO and comprising officials from different ministries and experts), on Thursday, set the ball rolling for mapping the sources of medical oxygen and their production capacity to match the requirement of 12 high-burden states and developed a framework to guide them,” a railway ministry spokesperson said.“Oxygen pipeline is a railway operation term, it means Oxygen Express trains on hand with us for various destinations (states) of the country. We have an online real-time monitoring system to monitor the movement (pipeline) of Oxygen Express trains. EG 2 group is already working for long and is closely monitoring the situation in the country. Officials of our ministry are also part of it,” he explained.The national transporter has delivered around 1125 tonnes of LMO in 76 tankers to various states, thus far. “Seven Oxygen Express trains are on the run currently with 422 MT LMO in 27 tankers. Haryana will receive its fourth and fifth trains carrying nearly 72 MT of liquid medical oxygen from Angul and Rourkela in Odisha,” the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-railways-biggest-single-day-load-delhi-to-receive-205-tonnes-of-liquid-oxygen-101620049086804.html
03-05-2021||India||Covid-19: Tripura extends night curfew to many areas||With the surge in coronavirus cases in Tripura, the state government on Monday decided to extend night curfew to all local and urban bodies and nagar panchayat areas as well as the number of hours under it, officials said.Tripura chief secretary, Manoj Kumar on Monday passed the order which said that the night curfew will be in force indefinitely from Tuesday.The government on Monday decided to clamp the night curfew in all civic body areas of the state from 6 pm to 5 am the next day. Earlier, night curfew was clamped in Agartala Municipal Corporation areas from 10 pm to 5 amEmergency services like medical services and the media have been exempted from the purview of the night curfew, the order said.Law Minister Ratan lal Nath, who is also the cabinet spokesperson said though the coronavirus situation in Tripura was better than any other states in the country, the number of virus infected patients was increasing day by day."We have observed that the cases are mostly found in the municipal council, nagar panchayats and in Agartala Municipal Corporation areas. It prompted us to extend the time of night curfew in all urban bodies, Nath told reporters.He said government offices will function from 10 AM till 4 PM with 50 per cent attendance of employees but all gazetted officers will have to be present in the offices.The government has also decided to conduct Covid tests in all government offices and shops in Agartala Municipal Corporation areas soon, he said.Public gatherings related to social, political, academic, cultural, festival, sports, entertainment have been restricted in the state, officials said.Maximum 100 persons have been allowed to attend weddings or any social functions. A maximum 20 persons are allowed to attend funerals, they said.Cinema halls and multiplexes have been allowed 50 per cent capacity and use of face masks, sanitizers and maintaining physical distance are mandatory, the officials said.The state government has already postponed all examinations for recruitment in the government offices, offline classes in schools, colleges and universities, while all gymnasiums and recreation clubs have been closed indefinitely.Violators of the order will be charged under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and Section 188 of Indian Penal Code (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) including other applicable legal provisions, officials said.Meanwhile, at least 134 people have tested positive for Covid-19 in Tripura on Monday, pushing the tally in the state to 35723, a health department official said.The toll in the killer disease has risen to 396 with two more patients succumbing to the infection, he said.Tripura currently has 1408 active coronavirus cases, while 33725 people have recovered from the disease, the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-tripura-extends-night-curfew-to-many-areas-101620046413165.html
03-05-2021||India||India has administered about 157mn Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered almost 157 million coronavirus vaccine doses by Sunday. On Day 2 of phase 3 of the nationwide vaccination drive, which includes the 18-44 year age group as well, over 86,000 beneficiaries in this age group were vaccinated. The Centre has also rubbished media reports that suggest that it has not order fresh stocks of vaccines since March this year.In all, 156,816,031 vaccine doses have been given in the country by Sunday, 7am. This includes 9,428,490 healthcare workers who have had their first dose and 6,265,397 who have got their second dose as well. As many as 12,757,529 frontline workers have had their first dose while 6,922,093 have got their second dose too.In the 45-59-year age group 53,280,976 people have got their first dose and another 4,008,078 have had their second dose as well. In the 60+ category, 52,618,135 people have been administered their first dose while 11,449,310 have had their second dose as well.Also Read | Some states showing early signs of plateauing in daily Covid cases: CentreAs many as 1,648,192 vaccine doses were given by Sunday morning. Of this, 989,700 beneficiaries were vaccinated with the first dose and 658,492 beneficiaries received their second dose as well.Meanwhile, the newly added category of 18-44 year age group saw 86,023 people vaccinated by Sunday morning.On Monday, in a statement, the Union health ministry said, “There have been some media reports alleging that the Centre has not placed any fresh order for Covid-19 vaccines. The news reports suggest that the last order placed with the two vaccine makers (100 million doses with SII and 20 million doses with Bharat Biotech) was in March 2021. These media reports are completely incorrect, and are not based on facts.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-about-157mn-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101620047046472.html
03-05-2021||India||'1 CT scan is equivalent to 300 chest X-rays', Guleria warns against risk of cancer||AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria on Monday warned of the misuse of CT scans and biomarkers by patients having mild Covid-19 symptoms and said that the overuse of CT scans increases exposure to radiation that in turn escalates the risk of cancer."No point in conducting CT scans for mild cases; one may find patches in CT scan even if he/she is asymptomatic but may get cured easily 1 #CTScan = 300-400 Chest X-rays! With frequent CTs, risk of cancer in later life increases, for youngsters," Guleria warned, saying that the data by the international atomic energy commission for radiation protection and medicine have shown an increased risk of cancer in later life due to frequent CT scans, especially if done at a young age.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19Guleria addressed the misuse of diagnosis, which he said is not required in case of mild symptoms. "A lot of people are getting CT scans done and deems it important to get CT scans done if their Covid tests turn out to be positive," he said. He cited a study that has shown patches in the CT scan of around 30-40 per cent of asymptomatic Covid-19 patients, which got cleared without any treatment. He used the study to make it clear that in case of mild infection, under home isolation with no problem or decline in saturation there is no use of a CT scan as some patches will appear.Additionally, he said biomarkers like CRP, D-Dimer, LDH, Ferritin etc are also not of any use in case of mild symptoms and normal saturation levels as it only leads to panic reactions. "All these biomarkers are acute phase reactants, which means if there is any kind of inflammation in the body these markers will soar. If you get acne or zit, injury, infection in your teeth then also these biomarkers will increase because it's your body's inflammatory response. So, it fails to accurately show if the viral disease has increased," the AIIMS chief said.Also read | ‘I cried’: A young Delhi doctor looks back at her stint in a Covid-19 ICUUnnecessary reliance on biomarkers can end up in over-treatment which may adversely affect the body. "Do biomarkers only when you have moderate illness and on the advice of your doctors," Guleria suggested.India on Monday reported more than 368,000 fresh Covid-19 infections and 3417 fatalities in the last 24 hours, as per the Union health ministry data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-ct-scan-is-equivalent-to-300-chest-x-rays-guleria-warns-against-risk-of-cancer-101620041702134.html
03-05-2021||India||Some states showing early signs of plateauing in daily Covid cases: Centre||The Union health ministry said on Monday that some states including Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh are showing early signs of plateauing or decrease in their daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Maharashtra, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Chhattisgarh have till now been the worst-hit states from the pandemic across India and have been contributing the most towards daily cases and deaths.Addressing a briefing on the prevailing Covid situation in the country, Union health ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal said, “It has been noted there is a decrease in the daily cases in some states. In Chhattisgarh, where the daily cases were around 15,500, they have now come down to 14,900. In Delhi, the daily cases have gone down to 24,253 from 25,294. The cases in Madhya Pradesh have come down to 12,800 from 13,000. And in Maharashtra, the peak of 65,000 Covid cases has reduced to around 62,000. Similar trends are seen in Telangana, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand.”Agarwal, however, pointed out these are very early signals and containment efforts should continue at the district and state level to ensure the number of cases can be reduced further.Also Read| "1 CT scan is equivalent to 300 chest X-rays", Guleria warns against cancer riskOther states such as Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Chandigarh, Kerala and West Bengal etc are still seeing an increasing trend in infections, Agarwal said and urged them to take precautionary steps and pay attention towards containment efforts. It is important that a micro-level analysis should be done in states which are seeing a rise in infections, the health ministry joint secretary added.India has till now recorded nearly 20 million Covid-19 disease cases and 218,959 related deaths as it is currently facing a deadlier wave of the pandemic. The daily tally reached the peak at 401,993 cases on Saturday. However, on Sunday, the country saw a marginal dip in daily cases at 392,488 and on Monday it further went down to 368,147.The active cases, meanwhile, have climbed to 3,413,642 and account for 17.13 per cent of the caseload. Agarwal told reporters on Monday there are 17 states which have less than 50,000 active cases, seven states which have 50,000-100,000 active cases and 12 states which have over 100,000 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/some-states-showing-early-signs-of-plateauing-in-daily-covid-cases-centre-101620045933505.html
03-05-2021||India||Cong seeks details of Covid aid coming in, hospitals getting it||The Congress on Monday demanded that the Centre shared details of the Covid-19 aid received and the states and hospitals getting it as it stressed the need for transparency.Addressing the media, Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said, “On behalf of every Indian, we request and demand Mr. Modi to ensure there is transparency in the supply of aid awe are receiving and where it is being sent.”Questioning the need for continuing with the Central Vista project amid the pandemic, he asked, “ How the Central Vista essential, but vaccines which have the potential to save live will be available only in June? Is this a joke?”Also Watch | Sisodia seeks Army’s help; speaks on oxygen shortageHitting back at external affairs minister S Jaishankar for lashing out at the Indian Youth Congress while alleging that oxygen supply provided to some foreign embassies was “unsolicited”, Khare called the minister’s accusations “shameful” and asked him to enquire where his own government went wrong instead. Khare had also tweeted on Sunday with screenshots of tweets of Jaishankar, Youth Congress and the Philippines Embassy. Khare also questioned Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on how India can boast of the world’s largest vaccination drive when several states have flagged vaccine shortage and have shut down vaccination centres.The Congress press conference comes after the deadliest week yet of the Covid-19 pandemic in the country. Last week, India reported more than 2.6million new cases and 23,800 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-seeks-details-of-covid-aid-coming-in-hospitals-getting-it-101620044766283.html
03-05-2021||India||‘I cried’: A young Delhi doctor looks back at her stint in a Covid-19 ICU||For a fleeting moment, Dr Saandhra Sebastian could hear herself complaining: “Why wasn’t there anyone older from the family who she could speak with. Why am I having to explain everything to someone so young.” The doctor, all of 26 years, had to break the news of the police officer’s death to his 25-year-old son. She knew how this would go; she had done it far too many times ever since she was assigned to the hospital’s intensive care unit for Covid-19 patients.He started crying uncontrollably before she could finish.The young man has an elder brother and a mother. But the brother was also down with coronavirus disease and admitted to another hospital. His mother was a cancer patient; confined to the bed at home. His father had been going from one hospital to another to see if she could get her chemotherapy. It was during one of these hospital visits that his father must have contracted the infection, he told her, tears streaming down his cheeks.Also Read: 'Mortality much higher', says doctor who highlighted horrors of 2nd Covid waveDr Sebastian, a first-year resident at a government hospital in Delhi, got the answer to the question she never asked. She felt worse. Miserable.It was just another day at work, said the doctor who last month put out a moving account of her experiences at the hospital on her Instagram handle to nudge people to mask up. The young doctor’s widely circulated note made it to newspapers and websites as well. Why did she write it? “It was just one of those days,” she responds, wryly. She was angry that people weren’t being careful enough.As the more “lethal” second wave of the pandemic struck India, she had seen too many people dying from far too close.Dr Sebastian, and healthcare professionals like her, always knew that they were going to deal with people dying in front of them. But she wasn’t prepared for so many.“I was a very timid kid. In the first year of medical college, they teach you to dissect bodies. Every year, when students are taken to the dissection hall for the first time and shown how to dissect bodies, at least three people in the room faint. I always used to think I would be one of those people,” said the daughter of an official who served in the army.But she recognises that her patients suffer a lot more than she has. “If you ask each person, the kind of stories they have behind them have so much sadness because of Covid-19,” she said. “There has always been someone in much more pain than I am”.Besides, she doesn’t have a choice. “We are the people equipped to do this (treatment). If we don’t do it, who will,” she said, adding that her only problem is that she might catch the virus but that’s in the future. “...but when you think of what the patients and their relatives are actually undergoing... they are actually the ones experiencing the pain. I am just a bystander. I'm just a spectator. When you look at them, your problems seem much smaller.”But it is traumatising. Dr Sebastian said healthcare professionals don’t have the luxury of time to think about it when they are working. But at the end of the day, or overnight shift in personal protection equipment (PPE) “when I come back home if something really bad happened in my shift, I cry”.Towards the end of her 14-day Covid duty, she started crying for no reason. “Anything that I could put up with in the beginning, I couldn't by the end, I had become so frazzled by the end of it,” she added.Understandable, because even the happiest memory has a tragedy weaved into it. Like the time when a colleague from the emergency ward came to check if there was a bed available for a 24-year-old who had come. His oxygen level was really low. She wanted to take a look but couldn’t get herself to walk up to the emergency room. The ICU didn’t have a bed for him. “There’s no point of going and leaving him after seeing him heave and gasp for breath.”The 24-year-old got the bed all right and a second chance at life, when an elderly patient died soon after. He was unlike many other patients, she reminisced. “We receive most patients in such a bad condition. They have lost their will to live. They take out their masks, any kind of support, take out their handlers, do not let us give them medicine. But this guy, he was desperate. He cooperated, did what we told him.”He made it out. After a week or 10 days, he got a lot better and was moved out of intensive care. “So I'm very happy. I think I had a role to play. I am very happy seeing him get better,” Dr Sebastian said, underlining that people should realise how dangerous the second Covid-19 wave is. “But they must not give up the will to recover”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/-i-cried-a-young-delhi-doctor-looks-back-at-her-stint-in-a-covid-19-icu-101620035886075.html
03-05-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir declares Srinagar district as Covid-19 Red Zone||The Jammu and Kashmir administration has declared Srinagar district a Red Zone after the summer capital recorded 1,126 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday. All other 19 districts have been declared as orange zones.Srinagar and Jammu districts reported 1,126 and 486 fresh Covid-19 cases respectively on Sunday, taking the tally of active cases in the two districts to 9,554 and 6,478. Srinagar’s classification as a Red Zone will likely result in stricter containment measures to slow down the spread of the disease.Srinagar and three other districts are under curfew till Thursday and government officials say it could be extended further if the cases continue to rise, especially in the Red Zone. The health experts have been advocating for extended curfew to bring down the number of cases. Besides Srinagar, Lakhanpur and Jawahar tunnel containment zones—covered by a 500 metre radius-- have also been declared Red Zones.Areas with high caseload and doubling rate are classified as Red Zones or Hotspot districts In contrast, a green zone has zero confirmed cases of coronavirus in the last 21 days.Currently no district in J&K falls under the Green Zone as per the government notification issued on Sunday night after a review meeting of the State Executive Committee of the Department of Disaster Management, Relief, Rehabilitation and Reconstruction. The meeting was headed by J&K chief secretary BVR Subrahmanyam.“The categorization will [help in] implementation of permitted activities in such areas notified by the committee,” said a senior government official.Meanwhile the government has already constituted a five member Crisis Management Group (CMG) headed by chief secretary to monitor the rapidly evolving Covid-19 situation and take preventive, controlling and mitigating measures.“The CMG will be meeting daily, and more often if necessary, to review the rapidly evolving Covid-19 [situation] in terms of cases, testing rates, positivity, mortality, recovery, hospital occupancy and other parameters,” said the J&K government spokesman.The group will also review the oxygen and medicine requirements and availability at all health institutions and manage the availability of resources, the spokesperson added. He said the group will also keep a close watch on vaccine rollout in the Union Territory.J&K recorded 45,123 infections and 289 deaths in April this year—the highest so far, taking the number of active cases to 32,421, officials said. Most of these cases have been added since February 9, when the UT had the lowest active case tally of 593.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-and-kashmir-declares-srinagar-district-as-covid-19-red-zone-101620043626675.html
03-05-2021||India||Italy sends oxygen generation plant for ITBP hospital, team of medical specialists||A special flight from Italy brought in an oxygen generation plant and a team of specialists on Monday to support India’s response to a massive surge in Coronavirus infections that has stretched the resources of healthcare facilities in many cities. The oxygen production plant, capable of supplying an entire hospital, will be deployed at the ITBP hospital in Greater Noida, the Italian embassy said in a statement. The Italian support package also includes 20 ventilators. The specialists who arrived on the flight include a team from the Maxiemergenza 118 emergency service of Piedmont region, a doctor from Lombardy region and a representative of the Italian health ministry. Italian ambassador Vincenzo De Luca and European Union (EU) Ambassador Ugo Astuto greeted the medical delegation at the New Delhi airport. De Luca said, “Italy stands with India in the fight against Coronavirus. This is a global challenge that we must tackle together. The medical team and equipment provided by Italy will contribute to saving lives in these terrible moments.” The Italian support package is part of the EU’s coordinated response to the Covid-19 situation in India. Italy is the third country, after France and Germany, to include an oxygen generation plant in its support package. A severe shortage of oxygen has been listed by experts as one of the biggest constraints in providing specialised care to Covid-19 patients in New Delhi and other cities. Twelve patients, including a senior doctor, died at the intensive care unit of Delhi’s Batra Hospital due to an 80-minute disruption in oxygen supply on Saturday. Also Read | Taiwan, Uzbekistan send support for India’s Covid-19 responseThe Italian support mission was coordinated by the EU’s Civil Protection Mechanism, which was recently activated to respond to the crisis in India. The oxygen production plant was made available by Italy’s Piedmont region and the ventilators were donated by the Extraordinary Commissioner for the Coronavirus Emergency. The materials and personnel were brought in by an Italian Air Force C-130 military transport aircraft as part of the Italian defence ministry’s support for combating the pandemic. So far, several EU member states have sent support packages to India. France airlifted eight large oxygen generating plants, each of which can make a hospital autonomous in oxygen supply for more than 10 years, and 28 ventilators, while Ireland donated more than 1,200 oxygen concentrators, one oxygen generator and more than 400 ventilators. Finland has provided 318 oxygen cylinders, Austria has sent 5,521 vials of the antiviral medication Remdesivir, 238 oxygen cylinders and 1,900 oxygen cannulas, and Belgium has provided 9,000 doses of Remdesivir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/italy-sends-oxygen-generation-plant-for-itbp-hospital-team-of-medical-specialists-101620042607152.html
03-05-2021||India||Centre exempts imported Covid-19 relief material from IGST till June 30 for free distribution||The Centre on Monday announced the temporary exemption of certain relief materials related to fighting the coronavirus pandemic from attracting the integrated goods and services taxes (IGST). The exemption has been provided until June 30, 2021.✅Ad hoc Exemption from IGST on imports of specified COVID-19 relief material donated from abroad✅As customs duty is already exempt , these imports will not attract any customs duty or IGST
03-05-2021||India||Journalists are Covid warriors, says Mamata Banerjee||Journalists are Covid warriors, Bengal’s outgoing chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Monday, hours after Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan made a similar announcement, declaring journalists “frontline workers”.Click here for complete coverage of West Bengal assembly election“Journalists have taken risk and worked on the field all these days like other Covid warriors. I declare you Covid warriors too. Let the Chief Secretary note this down. I am still the chief minister since I have not resigned as per rules before taking oath again,” said Banerjee.Banerjee left for the Trinamool Congress (TMC) office on Eastern Metropolitan Bypass in the afternoon where the party’s newly elected assembly poll candidates were called for a meeting. Her announcement came barely two hours Chouhan declared that journalists in his state will be treated as “frontline workers” and the state will take care of them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/journalists-are-covid-warriors-says-mamata-banerjee-101620041167306.html
03-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: India, EU to revive negotiations on trade, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India and EU to seal connectivity agreement, revive negotiations on tradeIndia and European Union are all set to seal a connectivity agreement at the May 8 virtual summit at Lisbon apart from reviving the negotiations on the stalled trade and investment agreement. Read moreReports claiming fresh vaccine orders not placed are incorrect, says CentreThe Centre on Monday rubbished allegations that the government has not placed any fresh orders for the Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccines for its nationwide immunisation programme. Read moreUP’s Sonbhadra battles virus with 1 Covid hospital, villagers rely on quacksSonbhadra district in eastern Uttar Pradesh is rich in minerals but poor in health infrastructure and some villagers from the district’s remote pockets say they have no option but to approach quacks even when facing life-threatening diseases such as Covid-19. Read moreGovt to rope in medical interns, final yr MBBS students to fight new Covid waveIn a bid to further augment the manpower to fight the pandemic, the government said services of final year MBBS students can be utilised for providing services like tele-consultation and monitoring of mild Covid cases after due orientation by faculty. Read moreIPL 2021: Covid-19 scare in Chennai Super Kings camp?The shadow of Covid-19 is looming large over IPL 2021 now as reports suggest that three members of the Chennai Super Kings franchise had tested positive after results came in for tests done on Sunday. Read moreMini Mathur gives it back to Twitter troll who asked if husband Kabir Khan is bankrupt after investing in 83Actor and former VJ Mini Mathur has asked a Twitter troll to utilise their time more productively. After Mini shared a message seeking medicines for a person, a troll commented on it, asking her about the financial condition of her husband, filmmaker Kabir Khan. Read moreMahindra to halt production amid Covid surge, prepones 'scheduled maintenance'Indian vehicle manufacturer Mahindra and Mahindra has announced that it has decided to prepone the scheduled maintenance of its facilities from June to this month. The decision has been taken due to the evolving Covid situation in the country. Read moreStart your day with this heartening clip of woman teaching puppies to pray before a mealThere are several ways doggos can brighten up one’s day. This video of two puppies waiting patiently before having their meal is an adorable example of those ways. Read moreWatch: Indian Air Force airlifts 4 cryogenic oxygen containers from Germany||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-india-eu-to-revive-negotiations-on-trade-and-all-the-latest-news-101620039213640.html
03-05-2021||India||UP’s Sonbhadra battles virus with 1 Covid hospital, villagers rely on quacks||Sonbhadra district in eastern Uttar Pradesh is rich in minerals but poor in health infrastructure and some villagers from the district’s remote pockets say they have no option but to approach quacks even when facing life-threatening diseases such as Covid-19.Ramashankar, a tribal from the district’s Faripan village, located in the Myorpur development block, couldn’t get a Covid-19 test done when he developed cough, cold and fever around 10 days ago as the nearest community health centre (CHC) at Myorpur was about 30 kilometres away. Jagat Vishwakarma, another resident of the same village, too, could not get his test done due to lack of healthcare facilities in the area.Sonbhadra has a population in access of 18 lakhs, mostly spread across its 1,441 villages in an area of 6,788 square kilometres, yet, it has just nine community health centres and only one Covid hospital at the district headquarters in Robertsganj, about 90 km from Faripan village, Ramashankar’s home. He says he was left with no alternative but to consult a quack.“I wanted a corona test, but it could not be done due to lack of a hospital equipped with a pathology lab near my village. No health department team reached the village for testing. As I had fever, I couldn’t travel 30 km by bike to CHC Myorpur. I consulted a quack instead, he gave me some medicines...,” Vishwakarma says. “I am okay now but there is still some weakness,” he adds.He says many others who were recently suffering from fever—one of the symptoms of Covid-19 infection, also consulted quacks as they had no other option. A social worker by profession, Vishwakarma says most in remote villages don’t even know about the symptoms of the disease.“Many people in villages like Sangabodh and Deohar were suffering from fever and cold but they usually consulted quacks in the vicinity, instead of travelling 30 km to the Myorpur CHC,” he said. Balwant Gond, a resident of Purvi Deohar village in Myorpur, and Laxmi Gond, resident of Mahuria in Dudhi area, echoed similar views.Scheduled Tribes (STs) constitute 20.7% of Sonbhadra’s population. It shares borders with Bihar, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh and its villages are situated in tough terrain, lacking proper connecting roads. In case of serious ailments, people hire a private tempo or jeep to take the patient to hospital. The district’s lone Covid hospital at Robertsganj has only six beds equipped with ventilators.“Sonbhadra has a 300 bed L-2 hospital at the district headquarters. Out of 300, only six beds are equipped with ventilators and 69 beds with oxygen facility. At present, 112 beds are occupied,” said Dr Radhagovind Yadav, acting chief medical officer of the district.Last week Friday, the district reported 369 new Covid-19 cases, including 181 from different villages of Myorpur, taking the number of active cases to 3,600, according to official data. In the last one year, Sonbhadra has reported a total of 12,453 Covid cases including 143 deaths.Dr Yadav says though nine private hospitals have been listed as Covid hospitals in the district, these have not started functioning yet. He also said 35 teams are deployed for Covid tests in remote pockets. The teams generally visit villages with several symptomatic people and conduct tests there, he adds. Apart from these, there are twenty mobile health teams to follow-up on Covid patients who have been in home isolation for over 10 days, he said.“A Covid testing team is sent to a village as soon as we come to know that people have Covid symptoms, including fever, cough, cold and headache,” he adds. “After sampling and testing, the teams go and give medicines to those who test positive.”Adesh Kumar Pandey, manager (HR) at National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) Singrauli, said, “Soon, NTPC is going to create a 10-bed Covid ward in its 100-bed hospital at NTPC Singrauli. Preparation for the same is underway.”Banwasi Seva Ashram at Govindpur area of Myorpur block is involved in welfare work for the tribals and has trained several ‘Swasthya Mitras’ for imparting basic healthcare to the locals."In case any local or locals take ill, they have to consult the quacks due to insufficient health care facilities in the remote villages. For the locals in these villages, the quacks are their only support for getting treatment for fever, cold, cough and other common ailments," said Shubha, a member of the ashram.She suggests that quacks are trained for administering basic medicines used to treat common fever, cough and cold to sustain a patient before he is taken to a government run health centre. “They should be told the dos and don'ts while providing basic health care to the patients,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ups-sonbhadra-battles-virus-with-1-covid-hospital-villagers-rely-on-quacks-101620039905589.html
03-05-2021||India||Govt to rope in medical interns, final yr MBBS students to fight new Covid wave||A review committee chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday decided to deploy medical interns on Covid management duties under the supervision of their faculty, as part of their internship. The committee also decided to vaccinate medical students and professionals engaged in such duties.Prime Minister Narendra Modi reviewed the growing need for adequate human resource in responding to the pandemic and took a slew of decisions that will boost the availability of medical personnel.The review meeting also decided to postpone NEET-PG for at least four months; the committee said the exam will not be held before August 31. Candidates will be given at least a month’s notice before the exams are held. This decision has been taken in the hope that this will make available a large number of qualified doctors for Covid duties.Also Read | Covid-19 vaccine status in ten states, UTs. Check hereIn a bid to further augment the manpower to fight the pandemic, the government said services of final year MBBS students can be utilised for providing services like tele-consultation and monitoring of mild Covid cases after due orientation by faculty. “This will reduce the workload on existing doctors engaged in Covid duty and provide boost to efforts of triaging,” a statement released by the Prime Minister’s Office said.Along with this, BSc/GNM qualified nurses to be utilised in full-time Covid nursing duties under the supervision of senior doctors and nurses.The committee also said that all health professionals who are engaged in Covid-related duties will be covered under the Insurance Scheme of Government for health workers.Those medical personnel completing 100 days of Covid duties will be given the Prime Minister’s Distinguished Covid National Service Samman from the Government of India and will also be given priority in forthcoming regular government recruitments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-rope-in-medical-interns-final-yr-mbbs-students-on-covid-duty-101620039305815.html
03-05-2021||India||Winning hearts: Bhopal auto driver converts his vehicle into a 24x7 free ambulance||Not all superheroes wear capes, and one such brave man, Javed Khan, an auto-rickshaw driver from Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh is winning the Internet and, of course our hearts with his compassionate move. The 34-year old has transformed his three-wheeler into a 24×7 ambulance service equipped with an oxygen cylinder, hand-sanitiser, PPE kit and oximeter.Khan, who has been providing free-of-cost service to patients for over 20 days now wanted to help those in distress amid the second wave of Covid-19. “Ambulance 2-5km ka ₹5,000 maang rahe hai aaj kal. Humse dekha nahi jaa raha tha aise haal logo ka,” says Khan who sold his wife Kishwar Khan’s gold jewellery to be able to make arrangements for the conversion of the vehicle. “Biwi ne manna nahi kiya bechne se aur support kiya,” he says adding that his wife was with him in his decision after he showed her videos of patients being taken to hospital, crying and pleading for support. He spends four to six hours a day getting the cylinder refilled, and for his safety the driver has put up a plastic barricade in the vehicle to maintain safe distance from the passenger. ”Main theek rahunga tabhi toh dusron ki help kar paonga,” he says.Khan, who has three children – two daughters (12 and 10) and a son (9), has received immense love and appreciation from not only on the Internet but also from his family members for this awe-inspiring gesture. “Ghar pe sab bohot khush hai. Mummy papa hai nahi duniya mein toh bas baaki aise sab ki madat ho jaye,” he says.He also reveals that he has been getting plenty of calls from all over the country for contributions as well. “Agar aisa support milta raha toh bohot lamba continue karunga ye service kyunki auto toh loan pe hi hai,” he adds. He urges citizens to stay at home, and help people in these tough times. “Jo ghar ke bahar nahi nikal paa rahe madad karne, woh corona kaal ke heroes ko ghar beth ke hi support karien,” he concludes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/winning-hearts-bhopal-auto-driver-converts-his-vehicle-into-a-24x7-free-ambulance-101620038705598.html
03-05-2021||India||Puducherry's Covid-19 caseload climbs to 62,160; 799 new cases added||The union territory of Puducherry logged 799 new Covid-19 cases during the last 24 hours pushing up overall tally to 62,160, a senior official of the Directorate of Health and Family Welfare Services said on Monday.Fifteen more patients succumbed to the virus in the last 24 hours ending 10 AM Monday raising the death toll to 848, Director of Health and Family Welfare services S Mohan Kumar said.While 12 of the dead were men, the rest were women.He said that while 12 patients died in Puducherry, two succumbed in Yanam and one in Karaikal. Most of the patients had comorbidities and the deceased were in the age group ranging between 39 and 85 years.The number of active cases crossed 10,000 and stood at 10,614 including 8,748 in home isolation, he added.Mohan Kumar said 790 patients were discharged from hospitals during the last 24 hours.Of the 799 fresh cases, 650 from Puducherry followed by Karaikal (51), Yanam (73) and Mahe (25).The test positivity rate was 23.9 percent in Puducherry, he said.The Health department Director said that 50,698 patients were discharged after recovery so far.The fatality and recovery rates were 1.36 percent and 81.5 6 percent respectively.He said that 32,361 healthcare workers and 18,952 frontline workers have been vaccinated so far.He said 1.5 lakh people coming under the age group of 60 years and above or those above 45 years with comorbidities have been vaccinated since March 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/puducherrys-covid-19-caseload-climbs-to-62-160-799-new-cases-added-101620037808408.html
03-05-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccine status in ten states, UTs. Check here||Several states and Union territories (UT) across the country are facing a severe crunch in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccines. The central government decided to launch the third phase of the largest vaccination drive on May 1, but many states and UTs could not begin the drive in a full-fledged manner due to the continued shortage.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19The Centre said that it has provided more than 165 million vaccine doses to states and UTs for free and of this, the total consumption including wastage amounts to nearly 159 million doses, as of Monday morning.More than 1.35 crore total Covid-19 vaccine doses are available as of Monday, the health ministry's data showed. The available doses include doses in balance and in the pipeline. Nearly 6 million vaccine doses will be supplied to the states and UTs within the next three days, the government said on Monday.Here is the vaccine status of ten states that accounted for more than 73 per cent of new infections in the last 24 hours:Uttar Pradesh has the maximum doses available with over 14.25 lakh in balance and 150,000 doses are in pipeline.Maharashtra, which is the worst-hit state has merely more than 23,000 doses in balance currently and 10.5 lakh doses are in pipeline.Delhi, which has a positivity rate of 28 per cent as of Sunday, will be getting 75,000 vaccine doses and currently has 3.87 lakh in balance.Karnataka contributed the second-highest number of new cases in the last 24 hours. The state has 17,900 doses in balance and 5.79 lakh are in pipeline.Kerala will be getting around 4.75 lakh vaccine doses in the next three days.Tamil Nadu currently has nearly 1.98 lakh doses and will be getting around 2.75 lakh vaccine doses.West Bengal has a balance of over 1.64 lakh vaccine doses and has 500,000 in the pipeline.Andhra Pradesh will be getting 5.75 lakh vaccine doses.Rajasthan has over 3.68 lakh vaccine doses and will get 1.75 lakh doses in the future.Also read| 25 flights, 300 tonnes cargo: How Delhi airport handled Covid relief over 5 daysBihar presently has over 8.6 lakh vaccine doses and will be supplied with 50,000 additional doses.The country on Monday reported over 368,000 fresh infections and 3417 deaths in the last 24 hours. The government has started the liberalized and accelerated phase 3 of vaccination as part of the five-point strategy to contain the spread of the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccine-status-of-ten-states-uts-check-here-101620032384576.html
03-05-2021||India||Centre 'policy paralysed', can't secure victory over coronavirus: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday accused the central government of being "policy paralysed" and said that it cannot secure victory over coronavirus.In a tweet, the Congress leader said, "A policy paralysed GOI cannot secure victory over the virus. Face it. Don't fake it."A policy paralysed GOI cannot secure victory over the virus. Face it. Don’t fake it. pic.twitter.com/JuWTDwOeznEarlier on April 28, Gandhi had hit out at the central government stating that a large amount of public money was spent on the companies that make the coronavirus vaccine, and now the same vaccine is being sold to the public at higher prices.He had said that no other country in the world had such high-cost vaccines and criticised prime minister Modi-led government for robbing people of his friends."People's money was given to vaccine companies to develop Covid vaccines. Now, GOI will make the same people pay the highest price in the world for these vaccines. Once again, the failed 'system' fails our citizens for Modi-mitrs' profit," Gandhi had tweeted.Before this, Gandhi had said that the Centre is not allowing the actual data about coronavirus to reach the people.Taking to Twitter, he had said that the PM Narendra Modi-led government is controlling the facts of the data related to the pandemic."Like employment and development, the Central government is not allowing the actual data about corona to reach the people. They may have not been able to control the pandemic but managed to control the truth about the pandemic," his tweet read.India has been witnessing a surge in COVID-19 amid the devastating second wave. On Sunday, the country registered 3,68,147 new coronavirus infections and 3,417 related deaths, informed the union health ministry on Monday morning. With this, the cumulative count of the cases has gone up to 1,99,25,604.The daily spike had reached its peak of over four lakh cases on May 1 but came down to 392,488 cases yesterday.The cumulative death toll has mounted to 2,18,959. Currently, there are 34,13,642 active cases of COVID-19 in the country, as per the government data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-policy-paralysed-can-t-secure-victory-over-coronavirus-rahul-gandhi-101620036877617.html
03-05-2021||India||Govt's biggest Serum Covid-19 vaccine order covered just 4% of population||The Narendra Modi-led federal government hasn’t placed an order larger than 110 million doses from the biggest local maker since sales started in December, according to a person familiar with the matter -- enough for just 4% of its population of 1.4 billion people.The lack of a larger central stockpile, coupled with a devastating second wave in the country -- it saw a one-day surge of over 400,000 cases on Saturday -- is now making local state governments scramble and compete with one another in placing orders with manufacturers after the federal government turned over the responsibility of procuring vaccines to them last month.Serum Institute of India Ltd., the world’s largest vaccine maker and the country’s main supplier of Covid-19 shots, is racing to keep up with states’ orders but its production facilities can produce only 60 to 70 million doses a month and can ramp up to 100 million by July, said the person who declined to be identified as the information is private.India, with the world’s fastest-growing coronavirus outbreak, is seeing its health care system collapse as it runs short of everything from hospital beds to oxygen cylinders. Though the nation is one of the world’s biggest vaccine makers, supply locally has run dry amid an expansion of access to everyone aged 18 and above, leading to a game of pass-the-buck among manufacturers and government officials.Menacing ThreatsTensions have escalated to the point that Serum’s flamboyant chairman, Adar Poonawalla, fled to London partly to escape menacing threats from people desperate to get vaccines, he said in an interview to the U.K.’s The Times over the weekend.The country is likely to face shortages of Covid-19 vaccines through July, Poonawalla told the Financial Times in an interview Sunday, as Serum ramps up capacity.“Everybody really felt that India had started to turn the tide on the pandemic,” Poonawalla told the U.K. based news daily. “There were no orders, we did not think we needed to make more than 1 billion doses a year.”A spokesperson for Serum declined to comment on its Covid vaccine order book.The devolution of responsibility to state governments to procure urgent medical supplies resembles what former U.S. President Donald Trump’s administration did last year when the world’s biggest economy faced an explosive outbreak: states were forced to bid against one another for crucial equipment like ventilators and masks.Prolonging MiseryThe sluggishness in vaccine procurement risks prolonging the misery in the world’s second-worst hit nation that is seeing its Covid-related death toll rise to unprecedented levels, overwhelming hospitals and crematoriums alike. Vaccines can prevent severe infections that cause hospitalization and deaths, thus alleviating the pressure on the health-care system.Opening the vaccination program for everyone above the age of 18 years -- without a stockpile in place -- has exacerbated the shortages, with many state governments stopping inoculation citing the vaccine shortage. Online registrations opened late last month only for servers to crash as tens of thousands of Indians tried to get a spot.Serum is licensed to manufacture Covid shots from AstraZeneca Plc. and Novavax Inc. Of the two, Indian government has approved only AstraZeneca’s Covishield vaccine for use. Bharat Biotech International Ltd.’s Covaxin is also approved in India, as is Russia’s Sputnik V.Serum Institute was “maligned by politicians and critics over the vaccine shortages,” Poonawalla said in the FT report, pointing out that the government, not the company, was responsible for policy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/biggest-serum-covid-19-vaccine-order-covered-just-4-of-population-101620036599947.html
03-05-2021||India||‘No other option left’: Haryana minister Anil Vij on imposing week-long lockdown in state||Haryana home minister Anil Vij said on Monday the state government did not want to impose a lockdown but despite their efforts, people were not adhering to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) norms in the way they were supposed to. “Due to this (non-adherence of norms), Covid-19 cases have rapidly increased. We had to impose a lockdown as there was no other option left,” Vij, who is also the state’s health minister, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.On Monday, Vij also made an appeal to the state’s residents in order to ensure the lockdown is successful. “Stay at home, stay safe and defeat Covid-19,” the minister’s tweet, roughly translated from Hindi read.The Haryana government on Sunday announced a week-long lockdown in the state beginning from May 3 till May 9, prompted by a sharp spike in the Covid-19 disease cases. The announcement came two days after a weekend curfew was announced in nine districts including Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonipat from Friday 10pm till Monday 5am.Also Read| Haryana police struggles to enforce fresh Covid-19 lockdown on Day 1According to the state government’s order, malls, shopping complexes, salons, movie theatres, educational institutions, places of worship will be closed. Dine-in is not allowed in hotels and restaurants but home deliveries are allowed till 10pm. Social gatherings, parties will only be held as per the permission given by the deputy commissioners.Only those weddings for which prior permission has been taken from the Sub Divisional Magistrate (SDM) are allowed during the lockdown with not more than 30 people indoors and 50 people outdoors.All essential services including health, law and order, fire and other emergency services have been exempted from the lockdown. Information Technology (IT) and IT-enabled services are allowed to operate with 50 per cent workforce. Shops selling groceries, dairy and milk booths, medicines are allowed to be kept open. There are no restrictions placed on industries engaged in the production of essential goods.Haryana on Sunday recorded the highest single day jump in Covid-19 deaths at 145, while 13,322 more people tested positive, according to the state health department’s bulletin. The infection count in Haryana has now climbed to 514,888 including 4,486 deaths, 105,270 active cases and 405,132 recoveries, the bulletin showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-other-option-left-anil-vij-on-imposing-week-long-lockdown-in-state-101620035419132.html
03-05-2021||India||PM Modi reviews availability of medical personnel to tackle Covid-19||Amid rising cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday authorised key decisions to boost the availability of medical personnel to fight the deadly virus, according to a statement released by Prime Minister's office (PMO)."The Prime Minister reviewed the growing need of adequate human resources for responding to the Covid-19 pandemic in the country today," the statement read.With the aim to increase the number of doctors, nurses and allied professionals for better management during the ongoing second wave of the pandemic, a decision to allow deployment of medical interns in Covid Management duties under the supervision of their faculty was taken. This will be part of the internship rotation and final year MBBS students will be made a part of services like tele-consultation and monitoring of mild Covid cases. Additionally, B.Sc./GNM qualified nurses will be deployed in full-time Covid-19 nursing duties under the supervision of senior doctors and nurses.Read more: Reports on Centre not placing new order for Covid-19 jabs 'baseless', says govt"This will reduce the workload on existing doctors engaged in Covid duty and provide boost to efforts of triaging," the statement read.All the medical students as well as professionals who will thus be engaged in Covid related work, will be vaccinated and covered under the insurance scheme of government for health workers. Moreover, professionals who sign up for minimum 100 days of Covid related duty will also be given the Prime Minister’s Distinguished Covid National Service Samman, the statement added.NEET-PG exam has also been decided to be postponed for at least 4 months and students will be given at least one month of time after announcement of exam before it is conducted.These decisions come as India reported as many as 368,147 new Covid-19 cases on Monday which pushed the country's total infection tally close to 19,925,604, according to the Union health ministry's dashboard at 8am. 3,417 new coronavirus-related fatalities were also recorded in the same period which took the nationwide death toll to 218,959. The number of active cases in the country currently stands at 3,413,642 which comprises 17.13 per cent of the total confirmed Covid-19 cases in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-reviews-availability-of-medical-personnel-to-tackle-covid19-101620034879431.html
03-05-2021||India||Reports on Centre not placing new order for Covid-19 jabs 'baseless', says govt||The government on Monday claimed as ‘incorrect’ the news report by a section of media alleging that the Centre has not placed any fresh order for Covid-19 vaccines.“The news reports suggest that the last order placed with the two vaccine makers (100 million doses with SII and 20 million doses with Bharat Biotech) was in March 2021. These media reports are completely incorrect, and are not based on facts.,” a press statement by the Union ministry of health and family welfare said.The report that first appeared on a business daily and eventually picked up a few others said the Centre has not yet placed fresh orders with the two Indian vaccine manufacturers – Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) and Bharat Biotech – even as several vaccination centres across the country reported shortages.Media reports alleging that Centre has not placed any fresh order for #COVID19 vaccines are incorrect and not based on facts#LargestVaccineDrive #IndiaFightsCoronaRead: https://t.co/k8RUM40Ord pic.twitter.com/Gm1bT0yx9E“The last order placed with the two vaccine makers — 100 million doses with SII and 20 million doses with Bharat Biotech — was in March. Industry sources revealed that the final tranche of deliveries of this order will be completed within the next few days,” the report claimed.However, the Centre rebutted the report to claim that a 100% advance of ₹1,732.50 crore was released to Serum Institute of India on April 28 for 11 crore doses of Covishield vaccine during May, June and July“As on date, against the last order of 10 crore doses for supplies of Covishield vaccine, 8.744 crore doses have been delivered till 03.05.2021,” the Centre said in the statement.“Additionally, 100% advance of ₹787.5 crore (after TDS Rs. 772.50 crore) was released on 28.04.2021 to Bharat Biotech India Ltd for 5 crore Covaxin doses during May, June and July, and was received by them on 28.04.2021. As on date against the last order of 2 crore doses for supplies of Covaxin vaccine, 0.8813 crore doses have been delivered till 03.05.2021,” it further read.Soon after the government issued a statement, SII posted from its official Twitter handle that the company endorses the authenticity of the information and is also working closely with the Centre to ramp up vaccine production.We endorse this statement, & the authenticity of the information. We have been working closely with the Government of India for the past year & thank it for its support. We remain committed to ramping up our vaccine production to save every life we can. https://t.co/tLVPjOMp51The development comes close on the heels of SII CEO Adar Poonawalla recently warning in an interview to Financial Times that India is likely to face vaccine shortages till July.When Poonawalla was asked as to why he did not expand the manufacturing capacity of Covishield vaccine earlier, he noted that there were no additional orders from the government, and his company did not think it needed to make more than 1 billion doses a year.The CEO of the world's biggest vaccine manufacturer also said that the authorities did not expect to face a second wave of coronavirus infection when the number of cases started to dip earlier this year. “Everybody really felt that India had started to turn the tide on the pandemic,” he said.ALSO READ: Shortage hits Phase 3 of Covid-19 vaccination driveIndia had administered over 156 million coronavirus vaccine doses by Saturday. On Day 1 of the phase 3 of the nationwide vaccination drive, which includes those in the age group of 18 to 44, over 84,000 beneficiaries in this age group were vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reports-on-centre-not-placing-new-order-for-covid-19-jabs-baseless-says-govt-101620033230808.html
03-05-2021||India||'Minor' oxygen leakage at Vadodara hospital, patients safe: Report||A "minor" leakage of medical oxygen took place in the SSG Hospital at Vadodara in Gujarat on Monday morning after a pipe carrying the life-saving gas for Covid-19 patients got punctured, an official said.Nearly 600 Covid-19 patients are on oxygen support at the government-run hospital, but the supply was not hindered as the leakage was plugged within 20 minutes, Dr Ranjan Aiyer, the medical superintendent of the facility, told PTI.The leakage took place in the 'New Surgical Block' premises of the Sir Sayajirao General (SSG) Hospital when the copper pipe, which transports oxygen from the main tank to different wards, got damaged."It was a minor leakage as the copper pipe got punctured at one place. A small amount of oxygen leaked. The issue was resolved by our staff within 20 minutes," Dr Aiyer said.Of the total 766 Covid-19 patients undergoing treatment at the hospital, around 600 are on oxygen support, the official said."The leakage had no impact on the oxygen supply to our patients. They didn't even get to know that such a thing had happened," he said.On April 21, 22 Covid-19 patients suffocated to death when their oxygen supply stopped suddenly because of a malfunction in the main storage at a civic-run hospital in Nashik city of Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/minor-oxygen-leakage-at-vadodara-hospital-patients-safe-report-101620032054187.html
03-05-2021||India||BJP keeps vision of saffron Tamil Nadu alive; will share power in Puducherry||After a gap of twenty years, the BJP will return to the Tamil Nadu assembly after winning four seats in April 6 elections. The party also opened its account in neighbouring Puducherry with victory on six seats and will now be part of the first NDA government in the Union Territory.BJP contested 20 seats as part of the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) led alliance in Tamil Nadu and won in Tirunelveli, Nagercoil, Modakurichi apart from a nail-biting contest in Coimbatore South.The national party has been trying to get a foothold into the Dravidian heartland after the demise of former chief ministers J Jayalalithaa in December 2016 and M Karunanidhi in august 2018. While it is evident that the Dravidian parties still hold sway in TN with the DMK winning a majority and the AIADMK finishing second with 66 seats, the BJP’s modest performance has kept its ambition of becoming a dominant force in the state by 2026, alive. The BJP had last won four seats in Tamil Nadu in 2001 in alliance with the DMK.“The wins have laid a solid foundation for the growth of our party,” said BJP national president and Tamil Nadu election in-charge, C T Ravi.To shed its image of a north-Indian party, mainly representing the Hindi speaking populace, the BJP revamped its TN unit, which is headed by a Dalit L Murugan. It also took out Vetrivel Yatra in November 2020 in honour of Tamil deity Lord Muruga, who is worshipped widely by the locals, in its attempt to consolidate Hindu votes. But it didn’t garner the response expected by the party though its national leaders evoking it in their rallies. Prime Minister Narendra Modi started his political rallies in the state with a loud call to “vetrivel” (victorious sear) and the crowd would respond “veeravel” (courageous spear). On the ground, the BJP also strengthened its booth committees, activating more than 48,000 of them.“Their pro-Hindu rhetoric worked to some extent,” says political analyst Raveendran Duraisamy. “But it was the AIADMK that contributed to their wins, especially in Modakurichi for C Saraswathi.” She upset former DMK minister Subbulakshmi Jegadeesan. Duraisamy says in Nagercoil, BJP’s M R Gandhi surprised three-time DMK MLA N Suresh Rajan because of a Hindu consolidation and in Tirunelveli, former AIADMK man Nainar Nagendran earned victory for the BJP with the solid backing of Mukkalathurs and Devendrakula Vellalars caste groups. Modi won the support of the latter after he accepted their long-standing demand to group seven sub castes together.Coimbatore south was a seesaw battle with Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) chief Kamal Haasan leading through the day but finally losing to Srinivasan, the BJP’s national women’s wing president, by 1,540 votes. “It was her individual work, she has been working in the constituency for more than three years which helped her reach the masses,” says Duraisamy.In Puducherry, which is currently under the governor’s rule, N Rangasamy of the All Indian NR Congress (AINRC) led the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) to a convincing victory in the 30-seat assembly. AINRC won 10, BJP swept six but ally AIADMK drew a blank. The Congress party was trounced with victory on only two seats. Party’s ally, the DMK, did much better with six victories.From a single MLA in 2001 and three nominated members between 2016 and 2021, the BJP has come a long way in Puducherry. Besides the gains accrued from Rangasamy’s support base and due to anti-incumbency against the Congress, the shifting of political heavyweights such as former minister A Namassivayam and A John Kumar from the Congress, also helped the BJP. “BJP poached powerful individuals in Puducherry who helped them win,” says Duraisamy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjpkeeps-vision-of-saffron-tamil-nadu-alive-will-share-power-in-puducherry-101620032161077.html
03-05-2021||India||EC plea on media 'too far fetched', it can't be restrained from reporting court discussions, says Supreme Court||The Supreme Court Monday termed as “too far fetched” the poll panel's plea for restraining media from reporting remarks in court proceedings and came out in support of high courts saying it does not want to demoralise them as they are vital pillars of democracy.A bench of Justice D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah assured the Election Commission that the high court's remarks were not meant to “run down” the poll panel and it will try to balance the rights of two constitutional bodies - the HC and the EC - in its order.The apex court reserved the order on the appeal of the Election Commission against Madras High Court's “critical” remarks holding it responsible for the surge in Covid-19 cases in the country and fastening its responsible officials with the murder charges.The bench said it would pronounce the order "expeditiously".“Media should be able to report everything also to create accountability and the dialogue in court is often to create an umbrella of discussion,” the bench said in a hearing conducted via video conferencing.The media is an important and powerful watchdog in democracy and it cannot be stopped from reporting discussions in higher courts, it said.Senior advocate Rakesh Dwivedi, appearing for the poll panel, submitted that Covid-19 management does not come under the EC's purview and after 20 days of polls in Tamil Nadu, the high court said it should be charged with murder.There was a continuous debate in media over the high court remarks on murder charges against the poll panel, he said, adding that somewhere a line has to drawn.The apex court, however, asked EC to take the observations of the high court in the right spirit and said, "You have done a good job"."We will take into account EC's grievance and to the best of our abilities, try to balance between rights of the poll panel and high courts," the bench said.The top court told Dwivedi that Madras High Court's effort was not to run down the EC as an institution.The Election Commission had moved the top court on Saturday challenging the critical observations made by the Madras High Court holding it responsible for a surge in Covid-19 cases in the country, saying the remarks were "uncalled for, blatant and disparaging".The high court had, on April 26, castigated the EC for the surge in Covid-19 cases during the second wave of the pandemic, holding it "singularly" responsible for the spread of the viral disease, called it the "the most irresponsible institution" and even said its officials may be booked under murder charges.The poll panel allowing political parties to take out rallies and organise meetings had led to the surge in Covid cases, the court had observed.The EC's appeal against these remarks was trashed by the division bench of the high court on April 30, leading the poll watchdog to approach the top court.The division bench of the high court, on April 26, made the stinging observation on a plea moved by Tamil Nadu's Transport Minister MR Vijayabaskar, who was the AIADMK candidate from Karur in the April 6 Assembly polls, seeking a direction to the authorities concerned to ensure a fair counting of votes on May 2 in his constituency by taking effective steps and ensuring proper arrangements while following the Covid-19 protocols.Since a total of 77 candidates were in the fray in Karur, it would be very difficult to accommodate their agents in the counting hall. It may affect the observance of the protocols, the petitioner had alleged.When the EC's counsel told the judges that all necessary steps were being taken, the bench shot back, saying by allowing the political parties to take out rallies and organise meetings, it (commission) had paved the way for a resurgence of the deadly virus.Irked over the submission made by the EC's counsel that all precautionary measures would be taken at the counting centres, the chief justice replied that the poll panel must be "singularly" held responsible for the sudden surge in the number of coronavirus cases in the country.The bench had even said that EC officials may be booked under murder charges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ec-plea-on-media-too-far-fetched-it-can-t-be-restrained-from-reporting-court-discussions-says-supreme-court-101620026508469.html
03-05-2021||India||SBI allocates ₹71 crore for fight against Covid-19||The State Bank of India (SBI) has allocated ₹71 crore to help combat the second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the country. The bank has also dedicated ₹30 crore to set up 1,000-bed makeshift hospitals, 250 bed ICU facilities and 1,000-bed isolation facilities in some of the worst-hit states, news agency ANI quoted SBI as saying on Monday."We are committed to contribute funds, resources and reach out to the citizens of India and also join in the government's efforts in fighting the virus. I urge everyone to offer their support in any form to the people in need and contribute towards making the country Covid-19 free," SBI Chairman Dinesh Khara said, ANI reported.The largest lender in the country is undertaking such support measures as part of its CSR initiative. The ministry of corporate affairs last month permitted the treatment of makeshift hospitals and temporary Covid care facilities as Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activity.Also read| Will try to keep soft interest rate regime as long as possible: SBI chiefThe second wave of Covid-19 has tremendously impacted India and its infrastructure as patients and hospitals suffer from a shortage of essential medical supplies.More than 368,000 fresh infections reported on Monday in the last 24 hours took the tally closer to the 20-million mark. The active caseload in the country reached over 3.4 million, as per the Union health ministry data.SBI Chairman Dinesh Khara in an interview with PTI had said that the bank is also collaborating with hospitals and NGOs to provide oxygen concentrators for the patients.For its employees, the lender has collaborated with hospitals across the country to facilitate the treatment of those who have been infected on a priority basis. The bank has also decided to bear the cost of vaccination of its employees and their dependent family members, Khara added.Last year, the public lender had contributed 0.25 per cent of its annual profit to Prime Minister's Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM CARES) Fund and donated ₹11 crore to support the vaccination drive.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sbi-allocates-rs-71-crore-for-fight-against-covid19-101620027808149.html
03-05-2021||India||Adar Poonawalla must disclose who are threatening him, say Maharashtra leaders||Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole on Monday said Serum Institute of India CEO Adar Poonawalla must disclose the names of the leaders who have been threatening him. Congress will take full responsibility, Patole said. Maharashtra minister of state for home Shambhurah Desai said, "If someone is threatening Adar Poonawalla, he can file a written complaint with the police department. We will probe.""No one will do any harm to him in this country. The Congress will be with him. But it must come to light who are the big leaders who he says are threatening him," Patole said.In April, the Serum Institute of India sought additional security for CEO Adar Poonawalla as he was receiving threats over the vaccine. After the ministry of home affairs provided him with Y category security, Adar flew to London to be with his wife and children. In an interview with The Times, he talked about receiving aggressive calls from "some of the most powerful people in India", demanding the supply of vaccines.'Everything falls on my shoulders': Adar Poonawalla on vaccine pressure in India"Everything falls on my shoulders but I can't do it alone...I don’t want to be in a situation where you are just trying to do your job, and just because you can’t supply the needs of X, Y or Z you really don’t want to guess what they are going to do," Poonawalla said.“The level of expectation and aggression is really unprecedented. It’s overwhelming. Everyone feels they should get the vaccine. They can’t understand why anyone else should get it before them,” Poonawalla said.In his interview, Poonawalla also disclosed that he is planning to start vaccine production in other countries. Seru Institute of India is the world's largest vaccine maker by the volume of doses produced yearly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/adar-poonawalla-must-disclose-who-is-threatening-him-says-maharashtra-leaders-101620027047301.html
03-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Pakistan breaches renewed ceasefire deal, opens fire along Jammu border and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Pakistan breaches renewed ceasefire deal, opens fire along Jammu borderAfter a break of little over two months, Pakistan on Monday again breached the ceasefire agreement with unprovoked fire at the Border Security Force (BSF) along the 200 km long international border in Ramgarh sector of Jammu’s Samba district, said a BSF officer. Read moreCentral Vista: V-P, PM residences to be ready by 2022The Vice President’s, and Prime Minister’s new residence are scheduled to be completed by May and December 2022, respectively, according to Central Public Works Department (CPWD), the nodal agency for the Central Vista Project, as the environment ministry’s expert appraisal committee (EAC) has granted the necessary clearance for the rest of the buildings under the plan. Read more'Don't heckle those who are helping,' Jairam Ramesh says to Jaishankar as spat over oxygen SOS continuesThe spat between foreign minister S Jaishankar and senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh on Twitter continues as the Congress leader on Monday accused the foreign ministry of heckling those who are helping the needy. Read moreCanadian province to gift 3,000 ventilators to IndiaWhile the Canadian government is in the process of identifying equipment from its emergency stockpile that can quickly be dispatched to India to assist in battling the Covid-19 crisis, the province of Ontario is gifting a consignment of ventilators worth ₹144 crore. Read moreMonday's IPL match between KKR and RCB rescheduled after 2 KKR members test positive for Covid-19Monday's IPL match between Kolkata Knight Riders and Royal Challengers Bangalore in Ahmedabad has been rescheduled after two members of the KKR contingent tested positive for Covid-19, a BCCI source told PTI. Read moreKangana Ranaut protests 'forcefully' taking oxygen from environment as new oxygen plants get built: 'We learnt nothing'With thousands of people struggling to get life-saving oxygen amid the coronavirus pandemic, many hospitals and governments are installing new oxygen plants to keep up with the rising demand. However, actor Kangana Ranaut doesn't seem to be on board with the idea. Read moreMilind Soman restores shoulder posture with mugdar, gets ready to donate plasmaRegularly updating fans about his recovery journey, ever since he contracted Covid-19 last month, Milind Soman has kept fitness enthusiasts on their toes with his workout motivations amid the ongoing coronavirus pandemic. Read moreStay parked. Stay safe: Carmakers urge people to stay indoors amid Covid surgeAs lockdown-like restrictions have returned in India amid a massive surge of Covid-19 cases, carmakers in India are back to offering help in the fight to break the chain. Read moreWhy Nandigram loss is good for Mamata, Bengal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-pakistan-breaches-renewed-ceasefire-deal-opens-fire-along-jammu-border-and-all-the-latest-news-101620024885281.html
03-05-2021||India||West Tripura DM relieved from post following allegations of misconduct||West Tripura District’s collector Shailesh Kumar Yadav’s request to be relieved from office following an inquiry into his alleged misconduct while enforcing Covid-19 guidelines in the state has been accepted.“...In the interest of an impartial enquiry, I request for relinquishment of my charge as DM (district magistrate) & Collector West Tripura District”, Yadav wrote to chief secretary Manoj Kumar on Sunday.Law minister Ratan Lal Nath said the government had accepted his request and given Ravel Hamendra Kumar, director of Industries and Commerce department, additional charge of the West District for the time being.Tripura government has constituted a high level enquiry into allegations that Yadav was guilty of gross misconduct while intervening to stop marriage ceremonies being held in violation of Corona night curfew at Manikya Court & Golap Bagan venues in Agartala on the night of April 26th. With the increase in Covid-19 cases in the second wave, the state government had imposed seven hours night curfew starting 10pm.Yadav reportedly stopped the marriage midway, insulted the bridegroom and forced him to vacate the wedding venue and even slapped the priest. He was also accused of misbehaving with the guests; the video of the incident went viral on social media, inviting criticism and drawing the government’s attention.Soon after the incident, the chief minister asked the chief secretary to submit a report on the incident; accordingly, a committee comprising two IAS (Indian Administrative Services) officers was constituted to probe the matter.Though Yadav apologised initially for his conduct, he later told the committee that he had performed his duty by enforcing law and order to prevent the spread of coronavirus and that he stands by his deeds.Meanwhile, the Tripura government has extended the duration and hours of night curfew, which was in force in Agartala Municipal Corporation areas between 10pm till 5am since April 22, to all local urban bodies and it will come into force from 6pm and stay till 5am the next morning till May 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/west-tripura-dm-relieved-from-post-following-allegations-of-misconduct-101620026341821.html
03-05-2021||India||Pfizer donates USD 70 million worth Covid-19 treatment drugs to India||Global pharma major Pfizer is sending its medicines worth USD 70 million (over ₹510 crore), from its distribution centres in the US, Europe and Asia, that have been identified as part of India's Covid-19 treatment protocol, the company's Chairman and CEO Albert Bourla said on Monday."We are deeply concerned by the critical Covid-19 situation in India, and our hearts go out to you, your loved ones and all the people of India," he said in a mail sent to Pfizer India employees that he has shared on his linked.in post."We are committed to being a partner in India's fight against this disease and are quickly working to mobilize the largest humanitarian relief effort in our company's history," Bourla said.Right now, Pfizer colleagues at distribution centres in the US, Europe and Asia are hard at work rushing shipments of Pfizer medicines that the Government of India has identified as part of its Covid-19 treatment protocol, he added."We are donating these medicines to help make sure that every Covid-19 patient in every public hospital across the country can have access to the Pfizer medicines they need free of charge," Bourla said.These medicines, valued at more than USD 70 million, will be made available immediately, and "we will work closely with the government and our NGO partners to get them to where they are needed most," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pfizer-donates-usd-70-million-worth-covid-19-treatment-drugs-to-india-101620025879774.html
03-05-2021||India||Australia's PM Scott Morrison defends ban on citizens returning from India; says it’s in ‘best interests’||Australia’s Prime Minister Scott Morrison on Monday defended his government's decision to ban and impose a jail term and a penalty for Australians trying to return from India, saying it is in the country’s “best interests” and to prevent a third wave of infections.The Australian government, for the first time in history, recently imposed a ban on its citizens from returning home, if they have spent time in India up to 14 days before flying back.The government threatened to prosecute them with a possibility of five years of jail term or a penalty of 66,000 Australian dollars (USD 50,899).Morrison said this is a temporary arrangement and a very difficult decision.“It has been put in place to ensure that we do not get a third wave here in Australia and that our quarantine system can remain strong,” he said, adding that it is in the country’s “best interests”.He said that he feels terribly for the Indian community.''We've seen a seven-fold increase in the rate of infection of those in our Howard Springs facility coming back from India.“It's important that we ensure that we have a temporary pause here to strengthen those arrangements in those quarantine facilities, get stronger testing arrangements, both when leaving India but also on people coming from third countries,” Morrison said.He said that he wants to get those repatriation flights running safely again.“These are the things we have to do to ensure I can do that, so I can. We've already brought home some 20,000 people from India through supported flights and facilitated flights, and they were just those who are registered. And so that has been a big effort to get people home,'' the Prime Minister told 2GB radio channel.“We’ve had the Biosecurity Act in place now for over a year and no one’s gone to jail… there hasn’t been any irresponsible use of those powers,” he said.Morrison said that there was clear advice from the chief medical officer that it was a decision that was supported and should be taken.The Prime Minister was criticised by Opposition leader Anthony Albanese for abandoning Australians in India and threatening the travellers with a penalty and a jail term.“Australia has obligations to our citizens, to people who are Australians – not just to abandon them overseas but then to threaten them is quite an extraordinary action,” Albanese was quoted by media reports here on Sunday.Deputy Nationals leader Matt Canavan tweeted on Monday about the government's decision stating, “We should be helping Aussies in India return, not jailing them.''Morrison said that the ban was under a continual review and “this only needs to be there in place for as long as it needs to be there to keep Australians safe.''Meanwhile, Chief Medical Officer Professor Paul Kelly has said the expert health advice group, the Australian Health Protection Principal Committee, told the government the risk coming from India had reached a “benchmark of concern”.On Monday, the daily Covid-19 cases in India showed a slight dip with 3,68,147 new coronavirus infections, taking the total tally of cases to 1,99,25,604, according to the Union Health Ministry.The death toll increased to 2,18,959 with 3,417 daily new fatalities.While the country recorded 4,01,993 new cases on May 1, it had registered 3,92,488 fresh cases on May 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/australias-pm-scott-morrison-defends-ban-on-citizens-returning-from-india-says-it-s-in-best-interests-101620024334432.html
03-05-2021||India||Pakistan breaches renewed ceasefire deal, opens fire along Jammu border||After a break of little over two months, Pakistan on Monday again breached the ceasefire agreement with unprovoked fire at the Border Security Force (BSF) along the 200 km long international border in Ramgarh sector of Jammu’s Samba district, said a BSF officer.“At around 6.15 am, Pak Rangers opened unprovoked small arms fire at BSF personnel in Ramgarh sector. They were doing maintenance work at the border fence when Rangers opened small arms fire,” said the BSF officer.“The BSF patrol on maintenance work escaped unhurt,” he added.An intelligence official said, “Today at about 0635 hrs (6.35 am) Pakistani posts Tipu and Hussain being manned by 10 wing of Chenab Rangers, fired four bursts of about 20 rounds of small weapons at the BSF’s working party of border outpost Majra near mound number 8/36 and pillar number 81 which is being manned by176 battalion”.The BSF exercised restraint and there was no retaliation from our side, he added.This is the first instance of violation after India and Pakistan renewed their mutually brokered ceasefire agreement on February 25 this year.The director generals (DGs) of Military Operations from both sides had committed to abide by the truce deal that was first signed in November 2003.The offer to renew the truce deal had come from Pakistan.Indian security forces have maintained that Pakistan has used ceasefire violations to provide cover for infiltration of terrorists from across the LoC and IB over the years.During a flare up along the 200 km long international border and 744 km long Line of Control (LoC), farmers living on the boundary bear the maximum brunt of Pak firing and shelling.Following the renewal of the ceasefire agreement, farmers in Hiranagar sector of Kathua and Jammu district were able to harvest wheat crop near the border fence after 18 years. The relentless firing and shelling by Pakistani forces had scared them away all these years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-breaches-renewed-ceasefire-deal-opens-fire-along-jammu-border-101620020400770.html
03-05-2021||India||Covid-19: Extended by 4hrs, Tripura’s night curfew from 6pm-5am now||With a daily surge in coronavirus cases, Tripura government on Sunday extended night curfew to all local urban bodies and nagar panchayats, increasing its timings by four more hours.The restrictions, which were in force in Agartala Municipal Corporation areas between 10pm and 5am since April 22, would now be in force in all local urban bodies from 6pm to 5am the next day, the government said. “Though the Covid situation in Tripura is better than many other states in the country, the number of positive cases is increasing. We have observed the cases are mostly found in the municipal councils, nagar panchayats and Agartala Municipal Corporation. That’s why, we have taken the decision,” said Law minister Ratan Lal Nath in Agartala. Also Read | ‘Unprecedented health crisis’: Manish Sisodia seeks Army’s help to fight CovidHe added that government offices will function from 10am to 4pm with 50% attendances of employees. All the gazetted officers would be present in the offices. “ We have also decided to start Covid test in all government offices and shops in Agartala Municipal Corporation area soon,” said Nath. Essential services, including medical emergency, police, security, and media, are allowed during the curfew. Public gatherings related to social, political, academic, cultural, festival, sports, entertainment have been restricted. There’s a cap of 100 persons in marriage or any social functions and 20 persons in funerals.Cinema or multiplexes will work at 50% capacity. The state government has already postponed all government jobs examinations, offline classes in schools, colleges, and all gymnasiums, recreation clubs are also closed for an indefinite period of time.As many as 46,311 persons have been fined in the state for violating Covid-19 norms since the outbreak of the pandemic last year. Over Rs. 88.69 lakh has been collected from these violators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-extended-by-4hrs-tripura-s-night-curfew-from-6pm-5am-now-101620020160945.html
03-05-2021||India||Manish Sisodia writes to Rajnath Singh seeking Army's help to fight Covid-19 in Delhi||Delhi has sought the help of the Army to set up, operationalise and run some Covid-19 health facilities with about 10,000 oxygenated non-ICU beds and 1,000 ICU beds, as the Capital is grappling with the increase in the number of fresh infections, daily deaths, while people are running from pillar to post in search of oxygen and other medical essentials. "Since the entire health infrastructure machinery is overwhelmed with the management of the existing hospitals and the upcoming Covid hospitals, it will be a timely help to the people of Delhi if the ministry of defence, with the considerable resources at its command, is tasked with the responsibility to provide and man the additional Covid health facilities as per the current projections," Sisodia wrote, requesting the defence ministry to arrange for the supply for medical oxygen for the Covid health facilities to be set up.At present, the Capitals has 16,272 non-ICU oxygen beds and 4,866 ICU beds and the Delhi government is creating an additional 15,000 oxygenated non-ICU beds and 1,200 ICU beds, which will be operational in the next 10 days. But as Delhi is recording over 25,000 new cases every day and about 10 per cent of these new cases require some form of hospitalisation, the additional health infrastructure will soon be at its capacity, Sisodia wrote.India registers 368,147 new Covid-19 cases, infection tally nears 20 millionThanking the Centre for augmenting Delhi's oxygen supply and all the work that DRDO, ITBP are doing, Sisodia urged the ministry to provide cryogenic tankers for the transport of Liquid Medical Oxygen. The government of Delhi with necessary help from the government of India and other state governments is augmenting the transport infrastructure by sourcing cryogenic tankers even from abroad, the deputy CM said.Delhi also needs the Army's help in procuring about 40,000 D Type medical oxygen cylinders, the deputy CM wrote requesting the ministry to provide medical and paramedical teams to supplement the medical manpower of Delhi."The operational details can be mutually worked out after receipt of in-principle approval from the defence ministry," Sisodia said.The crisis in Delhi worsened in April with the infection spreading at an unprecedented rate. The trouble compounded by the scarcity of oxygen and as all healthcare facilities are at full capacity, people are dying without getting beds. About 12 people at Delhi's Batra hospital died on Saturday after the hospital ran out of oxygen supply for 1.5 hours.The Supreme Court on Sunday issued an order asking the Centre to address Delhi's oxygen issue by Monday midnight. The apex court has also asked the Centre to create a buffer stock of oxygen that can be used by all states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unprecedented-health-crisis-manish-sisodia-seeks-army-s-help-to-fight-covid-101620019493407.html
03-05-2021||India||'Don't heckle those who are helping,' Jairam Ramesh says to Jaishankar as spat over oxygen SOS continues||The spat between foreign minister S Jaishankar and senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh on Twitter continues as the Congress leader on Monday accused the foreign ministry of heckling those who are helping the needy. The bickering started on Saturday after Indian Youth Congress president BV Srinivas posted a video of the Youth Congress members delivering oxygen to the Philippines Embassy.Terming the act as a stunt for "cheap publicity", external affairs minister S Jaishankar said the ministry had checked with the Philipines Embassy and as the embassy has no Covid cases, the supply was unsolicited. "Giving away cylinders like this when there are people in desperate need of oxygen is simply appalling," Jaishankar tweeted.Actions speak louder than words, Mr. Minister. No amount of “image management” can hide the reality of people gasping for oxygen. Please do your job instead of heckling at those who help the needy. The @IYC is showing the way, and we are proud of them. @DrSJaishankar https://t.co/XCa4k9qkp4I’d say don’t waste oxygen, literally or metaphorically. From a MEA that never sleeps - good night. https://t.co/6TDX2r6nTpWe got a request for an urgent requirement of Oxygen Cylinders for 2 Covid patients in Philippines EmbassyThe Cylinders were delivered at the embassy on a much solicited requestPost delivery embassy thanked us on Facebook. All screenshots attached with names and number masked pic.twitter.com/0sZb5ihnFGFollowing this, the external affairs ministry issued a statement urging all embassies to not hoard essential supplies like oxygen.Replying to Jaishankar's "unsolicited supply" jibe, BV Srinivas clarified the Indian Youth Congress received a request from the embassy. He also attached the screenshot of messages that he received asking for oxygen.Replying to that, Jaishankar tweeted early on Monday morning, "I'd say don't waste oxygen, literally or metaphorically. From MEA that never sleeps-- good night."On Sunday, the New Zealand high commission too tweeted for oxygen tagging Youth Congress, which was deleted later. “We are trying all sources to arrange for oxygen cylinders urgently and our appeal has unfortunately been misinterpreted, for which we are sorry," it wrote clarifying the deleted tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-heckle-those-who-are-helping-jairam-ramesh-s-jaishankar-spat-over-oxygen-sos-continues-101620018478642.html
03-05-2021||India||Assembly elections 2021: What it means for key leaders||The outcome of elections in four states — West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Assam and Kerala — and the Union Territory of Puducherry will have an impact on the political fortunes of both national and state leaders. Here is a snapshot of what it means for India’s key politicians. Narendra ModiFor Narendra Modi, West Bengal was the key prize among all states in his second term, just as Uttar Pradesh was in his first term. The PM campaigned extensively in the state, even at a time of the pandemic; challenged chief minister (CM) Mamata Banerjee; and promised a golden Bengal if the Bharatiya Janata Party won. The party made the election a contest between the PM and the CM. While it would be a mistake to see the result as a defeat of the PM — state elections are fought on a range of local issues and the PM’s popularity nationally remains high — this is definitely a political setback for him, especially at a time when the Centre is also being criticised for its Covid management. Narendra Modi has shown he can never be underestimated, but for once, despite the party’s win in Assam, the overall outcome of these elections will leave him with greater political challenges in the months ahead. Amit ShahWhen he first took over as party president, Amit Shah’s core goal for the BJP was to preserve its bastions in the north and the west and expand in the south and east. While the party has undoubtedly expanded, the outcome in Bengal — where the home minister invested tremendous political energy, predicted over 200 seats for the BJP, and along with party chief, JP Nadda, ran the campaign — is a political blow. Neither did the agenda of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, associated closely with the home minister, work in the state. While Shah will be satisfied at the party’s continued hold over Northeast’s most important political state, Assam, and the Congress’s defeat, the party’s southern and eastern expansion plans have become more challenging. Click here for complete coverage of West Bengal assembly electionMamata BanerjeeThere is little doubt that the star of this round of state elections is West Bengal’s chief minister Mamata Banerjee. The only woman CM in India at the moment, Banerjee has also become the only leader who has now fought all three major national political streams — she first fought the Left for decades, ousting it from power in 2011; she fought the BJP, defeating its well oiled machinery in 2021; and she fought the Congress and walked out in the 1990s. Banerjee will emerge from this elections as one of India’s most powerful regional leaders and a possible glue for unity, especially among all the non-Congress and non-BJP political forces. But a new, and more formidable, challenge begins now, with West Bengal witnessing a steady spike in Covid cases and deaths. Rahul GandhiIf there is one leader who should be the most disappointed with the election results on Sunday, it is Rahul Gandhi. The Congress may satisfy itself with the fact that the results have undermined the BJP’s goals — but this does not take away from the fact that the Congress lost Assam, Kerala (where history and the performance in the 2019 Lok Sabha was on its side) and Puducherry, was reduced to a non-entity in Bengal, and only won in Tamil Nadu as a junior partner of an alliance. This is bound to trigger greater uncertainty about the question of leadership in the party — where Rahul Gandhi is not officially president but has been in charge of all major decisions. The party is currently focused on critiquing the Centre for its Covid management, but at some point, now or in the future, voices of disquiet will once again emerge, challenging the continued dominance of the Nehru-Gandhi family and questioning its ability to revive the party’s electoral prospects. MK StalinTamil Nadu lost two of its biggest leaders , J Jayalalithaa and M Karunanidhi, in the past five years, leaving behind a political vacuum. The answer as to who will fill this may well be provided by this assembly poll. MK Stalin, Karunanidhi’s son, who has waited for over four decades for his opportunity to claim political leadership, will finally be the chief minister of one of India’s most important states (in terms of size, political strength, social development indicators, and economic resources). Stalin’s quiet leadership style, smart alliance management, and consistent organisational work has paid off. But in a sign that the electorate remains divided, chief minister EK Palaniswami put up a credible performance, on the back of a better than average governance record. Like Banerjee, Stalin, too will have to tackle the state’s Covid challenge as soon as he takes over. Click here for complete coverage of Tamil Nadu assembly electionPinarayi VijayanCommunist chief ministers are devoted to the party organisation. But only those communist chief ministers who also build up a distinctive leadership style and connect with citizens beyond the party machine have succeeded in India. While this was most obviously true of Jyoti Basu, it is now becoming more representative of Kerala’s chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan — who has succeeded in breaking what many regarded as an almost inviolable rule of state politics, where the Left and Congress replaced each other every five years. The CM led the Left to a victory largely because his government was perceived to have handled both public health (Covid and Nipah) crises and natural disasters (floods) well; he also expanded the party’s social base. As the only one with a proven ability to win elections in his party, Vijayan is arguably now the Left’s most important leader in India. Himanta Biswa SarmaThe former Congress leader who switched to the BJP in the run up to the 2016 elections in Assam, Himanta Biswa Sarma has not only played a critical role in expanding the party in the Northeast but also emerged as a key trouble shooter with formidable election management skills. When the Citizenship (Amendment) Act was being fiercely opposed on Assam’s streets, and it appeared that this issue would defeat the BJP, Sarma worked with the Centre and local administration to neutralise the anger. He also became the most vocal critic of the Opposition alliance, particularly hitting out at Badruddin Ajmal. While Sarma’s unacceptable remarks that there was no Covid in Assam — during the election campaign, to justify the non adherence to public health protocols — will remain a black mark, politically his biggest challenge now is internal. Sarma wants a bigger political role as the state’s chief minister — but will face resistance from the incumbent, Sarbananda Sonowal. Which way the party leadership swings will determine Sarma’s future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assembly-elections-2021-what-it-means-for-key-leaders-101620017520481.html
03-05-2021||India||India registers 368,147 new Covid-19 cases, infection tally nears 20 million||India on Monday reported as many as 368,147 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the preceding 24 hours, pushing the country's total infection tally close to 20 million cases. To be precise, the country's cumulative case count has now reached 19,925,604, according to the Union health ministry's dashboard at 9:15am. As many as 3,417 new coronavirus-related fatalities were also recorded in the last 24 hours, taking the nationwide death toll to 218,959. India is currently dealing with a deadlier, more infectious second Covid-19 wave that sweeps through the nation, crushing its health infrastructure and overburdened frontline medical workers.Also Read: Covid-19: What you need to know todayThe active coronavirus caseload, which crossed the three-million-mark last Thursday, currently stands at 3,413,642. This accounts for 17.13% of the total confirmed Covid-19 cases in the country. As many as 300,732 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours and so far, and 16,293,003 people in total have recovered from the viral disease, the health ministry’s dashboard displayed. With this, the country’s recovery rate stands at 81.77%, the government said.Monday's Covid-19 numbers, however grim, carry one silver lining -- India's daily coronavirus case surge has been showing a dip, albeit marginal, for two days in a row. The daily spike reached its peak of over four lakh cases on May 1, but came down to 392,488 cases yesterday, and lower still on Monday. However, the rate of new coronavirus infections continues hovering at alarming levels, with newspapers and websites littered with anecdotal reports over the past few weeks suggesting deaths and infections are being widely underreported.Also Read: Maharashtra sees slight dip, records 56,647 fresh Covid casesHospitals treating Covid-19 patients have filled to capacity, medical oxygen supplies have run short and morgues and crematoriums, even in the national capital Delhi, have been swamped. At least 11 states and union territories have imposed some form of coronavirus-necessitated restrictions. A nationwide lockdown on part of the central government, though, still remains out of consideration for now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-registers-368-147-new-covid-19-cases-infection-tally-nears-20-million-101620012274873.html
03-05-2021||India||Maharashtra sees slight dip, records 56,647 fresh Covid cases||Maharashtra witnessed a slight dip in Covid-19 cases on Sunday with 56,647 cases, pushing the tally to 4,722,401. The state had been seeing over 60,000 daily cases in the preceding five days. At 22.01%, the state’s test positivity rate (TPR) on Sunday was higher than that of Saturday (21.9%). The number of tests on Sunday was 257,370, compared to 289,006 on Saturday. Friday’s TPR was 21.68% and the number of tests was 290,207.The state’s Covid death toll is at 70,284 with the addition of 669 deaths on the day.The curve of the Covid-19 cases in the state appears to be stabilising as the daily average of cases dropped to 61,053 in the last one week from April 26 to May 2. The previous week, April 19-April 25, reported a total of 460,689 new Covid-19 cases with a daily average of 65,812 cases.Also Read | DU to postpone final-year examsAccording to the state authorities, the fewer numbers have helped reduce the load on the health infrastructure such as hospital beds, oxygen cylinders, ventilators as well as various medicines which were scarce for the last couple of week.Dr Tatyarao Lahane, director, Directorate of Medical Education and Research, said that cases have come down this week. “We have seen the new cases stabilising in 19 districts across the state. The numbers will come down further in the next 15 days. The stabilisation will be replicated across the other districts too in the coming days,” he added. “This trend has reduced the load on our medical infrastructure also. There is no problem now with the oxygen supply and people are the hospital beds are available to patients,” said Lahane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-sees-slight-dip-records-56-647-fresh-covid-cases-101620012780075.html
03-05-2021||India||Rain, thunderstorms likely over east, peninsular India for 3-4 days||Widespread rain and thunderstorms are likely over east and Peninsular India for the next 3-4 days, according to the India Meteorological Department.There is likely to be light rain and thunderstorms over the Western Himalayan and adjoining northwest India for the next 3-4 days due to Western Disturbances which are now moving away and strong easterly winds, IMD officials said.A cyclonic circulation is lying over northwest Madhya Pradesh and neighbourhood and a trough (area of low pressure) is running from the circulation to Manipur at lower levels. A trough in westerlies is likely to persist over east India during the next 4-5 days. Under its influence, fairly widespread to widespread rainfall or thunderstorm activity is likely over sub Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim, Assam and Meghalaya and scattered to fairly widespread rest parts of east and northeast India during the next five days.Also Read | Environment ministry eases norms for industry expansionUnder the influence of cyclonic circulation over south Tamil Nadu and neighbourhood and north-south trough/wind discontinuity over south Peninsula at lower levels, light or moderate widespread rain or thunder is also likely over Kerala and Mahe, Lakshadweep, Karnataka; and isolated rain/thundershower over rest of south Peninsular India during next 5 days. Isolated heavy rainfall is also likely over Kerala & Mahe on May 5 and 6 and South Interior Karnataka from May 4 to 6 and over coastal Karnataka on May 5.No heat wave is likely over any part of the country during the next 5 days. Due to high swell waves, sea condition is likely to be rough along and off the west coast Andaman and Nicobar Islands (from ten degree channel to Coco channel) and along and off the coastal areas of south Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Karnataka, Lakshadweep. Fishermen are advised to be cautious while venturing into these areas. Heat waves are unlikely anywhere in the country for five days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-thunderstorms-likely-over-east-peninsular-india-for-3-4-days-101620010919848.html
03-05-2021||NA||Covid-19 LIVE updates: Punjab reports 6,798 new cases, 157 deaths in last 24 hrs||As India battles the deadlier, more infectious second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the rate of new infections continues hovering at alarming levels. On Monday, the country recorded as many as 368,147 new cases in 24 hours, pushing the total infection tally close to the 20-million mark, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare. Although grim, Monday's daily spike indicates a sharp decline from the nearly four lakh new cases recorded a day ago. Daily deaths, too, came down to 3,417 from the record 3,689 new fatalities recorded on Sunday. With this, the nationwide death toll has now reached 218,959.Also Read: Covid-19: What you need to know todayHospitals treating Covid-19 patients have filled to capacity, medical oxygen supplies have run short and morgues and crematoriums have been swamped. At least 11 states and union territories have imposed some form of coronavirus-necessitated restrictions. A nationwide lockdown on part of the central government, however, still remains out of consideration for now.On the other hand, several countries including the United States have shipped in critical oxygen equipment, therapeutics, and raw materials for Covid-19 vaccine production to help India tide over the current coronavirus crisis.Covid-19 dashboard:Total cases: 19,925,604Active cases: 3,413,642Discharged patients: 16,293,003Deaths: 218,959Total vaccinations: 157,198,207Recovery rate: 81.77%Catch all the latest news and updates on Monday (May 3, 2021) related to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) developments in India and the world, on this portal at the Hindustan Times.Follow all the updates here:Assam reports 4,489 new Covid-19 cases, 29 deathsAssam reports 4,489 new #COVID19 cases, 2,534 discharges and 29 deaths.Active cases: 26,477Death toll: 1,347 pic.twitter.com/IxZ4cuu8TFAssam reported 4,489 new Covid-19 cases and 29 deaths (death toll reached 1,347). Active caseload reached 26,477, reports ANI.BMC releases list of Covid-19 vaccination centres for second doseDear 45 +s, healthcare & frontline workers Here’s a list of centres where you you can walk-in tomorrow for your second doseDo check the vaccines available at the respective centres. Please carry your first dose certificate/SMS too#MyBMCVaccinationUpdate#WeShallOvercome pic.twitter.com/4RaNERH9ROThe Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) released list of Covid-19 vaccination centres administering second doses for people over 45 years of age, healthcare and frontline workers.Chhattisgarh reports 15,274 new Covid-19 cases, 266 deaths in last 24 hoursChhattisgarh reports 15,274 new #COVD19 cases, 1,088 recoveries and 266 deaths in the last 24 hoursActive cases: 1,20,977Death toll: 9,275 pic.twitter.com/DMr8yCsyLfWith 15,274 new Covid-19 cases and 266 deaths, Chhattisgarh's death toll reached 9,275, reports ANI.J&K reports over 3,700 new Covid-19 cases, 51 deathsJammu and Kashmir records 3,733 fresh COVID-19 cases, 51 deaths, say officialsJammu and Kashmir reported 3,733 new Covid-19 cases and 51 deaths, reports PTI citing officials.Madhya Pradesh reports 12,062 cases, 93 deaths; active caseload reaches 85,750Madhya Pradesh reports 12062 new #COVID19 cases, 13408 recoveries, and 93 deaths today. Total cases: 6,00,430Death toll: 5,905Active cases: 85,750 pic.twitter.com/qP4J2pHqKRMadhya Pradesh reported 12,062 new Covid-19 cases and 93 deaths taking the cases tally to 600,430 and death toll to 5,905, reports ANI.Punjab logs 6,798 new Covid-19 cases, 157 deaths in last 24 hoursPunjab reports 6,798 fresh COVID-19 cases, 6,016 discharges, and 157 deaths in the last 24 hoursActive cases: 60,709Total discharges: 3,21,861Death toll: 9,472 pic.twitter.com/l6nH2pCk20Punjab reported 6,798 new Covid-19 cases and 157 deaths in last 24 hours. Active cases in the state stands at 60,709, reports ANI.Himachal Pradesh reports 2,630 new Covid-19 cases, 43 deaths in last 24 hoursCOVID19 | Himachal Pradesh reports 2630 new cases, 1526 recoveries and 43 deaths during the past 24 hours in the state pic.twitter.com/FDWxZOJ30jHimachal Pradesh reported 2,630 new Covid-19 cases and 43 deaths in the last 24 hours. Also, 1,526 people recovered from the disease in the time period, reports ANI.More cases of Covid-19 reported globally in past 2 weeks than in first 6 months of pandemic, says WHO chief"More cases of #COVID19 have been reported globally in the past two weeks than during the first six months of the pandemic."-@DrTedrosDirector-General of the world health organization (WHO) Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said that more cases of Covid-19 have been reported in the world in the past two weeks than in the first six months of the pandemic.TN reports over 20,000 new Covid-19 cases, 122 deaths in last 24 hoursTamil Nadu reports 20,952 new COVID-19 cases, 18,016 recoveries, and 122 deaths in the last 24 hours Active cases: 1,23,258Total recoveries: 10,90,338Death toll: 14,468 pic.twitter.com/hHwto6GG61Tamil Nadu reported 20,952 new Covid-19 cases and 122 deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the state's tally to 1,228,064 cases and death toll tol 14,468, reports ANI.Manipur reports 362 new Covid-19 cases, 7 deaths in last 24 hoursManipur reports 362 new COVID positive cases, 7 deaths and 107 recoveries in the last 24 hours. Total cases at 32,523 and active cases at 2,071 pic.twitter.com/lJ7coDqqRfWith 362 new Covid-19 cases and seven deaths in the last 24 hours, Manipur's tally reached 32,523, reports ANI. The state currently has 2,071 active cases.Maharashtra logs 48,621 new cases; 2,624 cases reported in MumbaiWith 48,621 new Covid-19 cases and 567 deaths, Maharashtra's tally reached 4,771,022 cases and death toll climbed to 70,851.Mumbai saw 2,624 new cases of the disease and 78 fatalities which took the city's tally to 658,621 cases and death toll to 13,372.Karnataka logs 44,438 new Covid-19 cases, 239 deathsToday's Media Bulletin 03/05/2021Please click on the link below to view bulletin.https://t.co/QH7bgISgpo @CMofKarnataka @BSYBJP @mla_sudhakar @drashwathcn @RAshokaBJP @BSBommai @CPBlr @PIBBengaluru @KarnatakaVarthe @PIBBengaluru @BBMPCOMM @BlrCityPolice @blrcitytraffic pic.twitter.com/3SLjIkIRbKKarnataka recorded 44,438 new Covid-19 cases and 239 deaths as the state's tally reached 1,646,303 cases and the death toll climbed to 16,250, a bulletin from the state health department showed.Andhra Pradesh reports 18,792 new Covid-19 cases, 71 deaths in last 24 hoursAndhra Pradesh reports 18,972 new COVID19 cases, 71 deaths in the last 24 hours; Total positive cases in the state now 11,63,994 with 1,51,852 active cases pic.twitter.com/SMTmK1w2JYWith 18,792 new Covid-19 cases and 71 deaths in the last 24 hours, Andhra Pradesh's tally reached 1,163,994 and death toll climbed to 8,207, reports ANI.Rajasthan reports over 17,000 new cases, 154 deaths in last 24 hoursRajasthan reports 17,296 new COVID-19 cases, 11,949 recoveries, and 154 deaths in the last 24 hours Active cases: 1,94,371Total recoveries: 4,52,164Death toll: 4,712 pic.twitter.com/OMdRaEJBdYRajasthan's Covid-19 tally reached 651,247 cases and death toll climbed to 4,712 after the state reported 17,296 new cases and 154 deaths in the last 24 hours, reports ANI.Chandigarh's Covid-19 tally crosses 45,000-mark with 890 new casesWith 890 new Covid-19 cases, Chandigarh's cases tally went past the 45,000-mark and currently stands at 45,196, reports ANI.More supplies to come, focus on oxygen, related equipment: EU ambassador to IndiaWe expect more supplies to come in the days to come. We are in touch with the Indian government, as of now we are focusing on Oxygen and drugs: Ugo Astuto, Ambassador of European Union to IndiaEuropean Union's ambassador to India Ugo Astuto said that more supplies are expected to arrive in India and the focus is on oxygen and related equipment, reports ANI.12 states now jabbing people in 18-44 years age group, says govtTwelve states have started COVID19 vaccination for those in the age group of 18-44 years from May 1: Lav Agarwal, Union Health Ministry Joint Secretary pic.twitter.com/2G6FMmtyiMTwelve states have started the Covid-19 vaccination for people in the 18 to 44 years age group, Lav Agarwal, joint secretary of the Union health ministry said, reports ANI.12 states have over 100,000 active Covid-19 cases: Centre#IndiaFightsCorona:📍 India snapshot - State wise #ActiveCases as on 3rd May, 2021.- Joint Secretary, @MoHFW_INDIA #Unite2FightCorona #StaySafe pic.twitter.com/OzCYIl4bAtThe Union health ministry said that 12 states have more than 100,000 active Covid-19 cases while seven states have 50,000 to 100,0000 active case. Also, 17 states have less than 50,000 active cases.Mamatam Banerjee declares journalists as Covid-19 warriorsI declare all journalists as COVID warriors: West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee pic.twitter.com/pxNN7mlnKwWest Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee declared all journalists as Covid-19 warriors, reports ANI.UP government extends 'corona curfew' by 2 more days, effective until 7am on Thursday nowThe Uttar Pradesh state government ordered the extension of the ongoing partial corona curfew by two more days until 7am on Thursday.PM Modi thanks EU Commission leader for support, assistance to India's efforts against Covid-19Spoke to President of the EU Commission @vonderleyen and thanked EU for support and assistance to India’s COVID response. We discussed India-EU Leaders’ Meeting on 8 May. I am confident that the Meeting will provide a new momentum to our Strategic Partnership.Prime Minister Narendra Modi thanked EU Commission president Ursula von der Leyen for Europe's support and assistance to India's efforts against Covid-19.Govt data shows states with maximum consumption, availability of Covid-19 vaccinesGlance through the latest stats of the #COVIDVaccine consumption & availability as on 3rd May 2021. Visit: https://t.co/CKhgW2LA7d for latest updates on #COVID19. #IndiaFightsCorona #Unite2FightCorona#LargestVaccinationDrive pic.twitter.com/6IXhD2iUWaThe central government released data showing the consumption so far and the availability of Covid-19 vaccines with each state.25 flights, 300 tonnes cargo: How Delhi airport handled Covid relief over 5 daysThe Delhi international airport handled 25 flights carrying 300 tonnes of Covid-19 relief cargo in the last five days, its operator, DIAL, said on Monday. The airport has set up a 3,500 square meter dedicated logistics facility, called 'Jeevoday warehouse', for interim storage and distribution of the relief materials, the Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) said in a statement. Read MoreThird 'Oxygen Express' to reach Delhi tomorrowThe third 'Oxygen Express' train for Delhi with 120 tonnes of Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) is scheduled to reach the national capital on Tuesday morning.Pfizer donates USD 70 million to India as coronavirus aidAmerican pharmaceutical corporation Pfizer has donated $70 million worth of medicines to India as coronavirus aid in view of the recent surge in Covid-19 cases in the country, said company CEO Albert BourlaDelhi CM to chair meeting on home isolationDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will on Monday chair a meeting of government officers regarding Covid-19 necessitated home isolation. Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia and the chief secretary are also supposed to be present, reported ANI.24 dead at Karnataka hospital due to oxygen shortage: ReportThe incident took place at the Chamarajanagar district hospital in Karnataka. Many of the patients who died reportedly due to a lack of oxygen and other reasons were undergoing treatment for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) at the hospital.'Corona curfew' in UP extended till 7am on May 6Partial 'corona curfew' imposed in Uttar Pradesh extended till 7 am on May 6: ACS Information Navneet Sehgal(file photo) pic.twitter.com/ntXSQESTYBThe partial 'corona curfew', that was imposed in Uttar Pradesh, has now been extended till 7am on May 6, said assistant chief secretary (Information) Navneet Sehgal on Monday.Oxygen plant set up at Covid-19 health centre in DelhiDelhi: Oxygen plant set up at COVID-19 Health Centre in Commonwealth Games Village Sports Complex. "This plant can supply oxygen to 18-20 patients simultaneously. The plant has been donated by HCL Foundation," says Dr Anurag Mishra. pic.twitter.com/PdQvwhjhZzAn oxygen plant has been set up at a Covid-19 health centre in the Commonwealth Games Village Sports Complex. "This plant can supply oxygen to 18-20 patients simultaneously. The plant has been donated by HCL Foundation," said Dr Anurag Mishra.People aged 18 years or above queue up outside a Covid-19 vaccination centre in DelhiDelhi: People above 18 years of age queue up outside a vaccination centre in Ashok Nagar area pic.twitter.com/fVGl6Xt1lcPeople above 18 years of age were seen on Monday queuing up outside a Covid-19 vaccination centre in Delhi's Ashok Nagar area.Railways says it has deployed nearly 4,000 isolation coaches across IndiaThe Union ministry of railways on Monday said that the Indian Railways has deployed nearly 4,000 isolation coaches with almost 64,000 beds across the country.India registers 368,147 new Covid-19 cases, infection tally nears 20 millionIndia on Monday reported as many as 368,147 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the preceding 24 hours, pushing the country's total infection tally close to 20 million cases. To be precise, the country's cumulative case count has now reached 19,925,604, according to the Union health ministry's dashboard. As many as 3,417 new coronavirus-related fatalities were also recorded, taking the nationwide death toll to 218,959. Read MoreDRDO hands over 50 oxygen cylinders to Telangana hospitalThe Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has handed over 50 oxygen cylinders to the Gandhi Hospital in Telangana's Secunderabad, the department of defence informed on Monday. Union minister Kishan Reddy was present during the handing over of the cylinders on Sunday, it added.Notably, these oxygen cylinders are of 46.7 liters water capacity each and can be pressurised up to 150 bars, the DRDO said.Delhi L-G seeks action plan on shortage of beds, oxygen amid Covid-19 surgeThe lieutenant governor of Delhi, Anil Baijal, on Sunday asked concerned departments and agencies to submit an action plan with regard to the availability of hospital beds, medicines, medical oxygen as well as increasing the capacity of crematoriums and graveyards amid a surge in Covid-19 cases in the national capital. Read More(Reporting by ANI)How many dead are there, really?Delhi’s crematoriums running out of wood, underreported deaths from Bihar and Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh — newspapers and websites (including HT) have been peppered with anecdotal reports over the past few weeks that show that many states are under-reporting the number of coronavirus disease or Covid-19 deaths.Is it twice the reported number, five times, thirty? Read MoreOpposition parties ask Centre to launch mass vaccination drive free-of-chargeLeaders of 13 opposition parties in a joint statement asked the Central government to launch a free mass vaccination drive across the country in view of the unprecedented surge in #COVID19 cases. pic.twitter.com/By4y0gaA5DThe leaders of 13 opposition parties in India have penned a joint statement, asking the central government to launch a free mass vaccination drive across India in view of the unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases. It was recommended that a budgetary allocation of ₹35,000 be utilised for this purpose.Among the signatories included the leaders of a number of regional parties in states, such as Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee, Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar, and Samajwadi Party head Akhilesh Yadav. Congress chief Sonia Gandhi also signed the joint statement. Indian Air Force C-17s airlift cryogenic oxygen containers to meet critical demandIndian Air Force C-17s are airlifting 4 cryogenic oxygen containers from Frankfurt in Germany to Hindon airbase in Delhi and 450 oxygen cylinders from Brize Norton in the UK to the Chennai airbase in Tamil Nadu: Indian Air Force pic.twitter.com/BCcAL3SPmIThe Indian Air Force, on Monday morning, said that its C-17 aircraft is bringing four cryogenic oxygen containers from Germany's Frankfurt to the Hindon airbase in Delhi. 450 oxygen cylinders are also being airlifted from Brize Norton in the United Kingdom to the Chennai airbase in Tamil Nadu, it said.On a more domestic basis, the C-17 aircrafts are also carrying oxygen containers from one state to another. On Sunday, the IAF C-17 airlifted two cryogenic oxygen containers from Chandigarh to Bhubaneswar, two from Jodhpur to Jamnagar, two from Hindan to Ranchi, two from Indore to Jamnagar, and two more from Hindon to Bhubaneswar, the air force said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-covid-19-india-world-death-toll-may-3-2021-latest-news-live-updates-101620006746122.html
03-05-2021||India||India's richest banker urges curtailing economic activity to stop Covid-19||India’s wealthiest banker, Uday Kotak, implored authorities to consider curbing economic activity in a bid to counter the coronavirus crisis.The South Asian nation is suffering the world’s worst Covid-19 outbreak, with a daily infection rate surpassing 400,000 and more than 3,000 deaths every day. India’s struggling to secure supplies from abroad after its hospitals became overwhelmed and oxygen ran out in some parts of the country.“At this critical juncture when toll of lives is rising, CII urges the strongest national steps including curtailing economic activity to reduce suffering,” Kotak, president of the Confederation of Indian Industry and chief executive of Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd., India’s third-largest lender by market value, said in a tweet.The advice is a shift for the CII, whose members had in April indicated through a survey that they were against lockdowns. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who last year imposed a strict lockdown on short notice, has also asked states to avoid shutting businesses this time around. Since his speech to the nation, though, India’s daily official death toll has increased by more than 1,000 and millions more have been sickened.Other CII suggestions included:“Our maxim should be ‘no one is safe, unless everyone is safe,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-richest-banker-urges-curtailing-economic-activity-to-stop-covid19-101620005978383.html
03-05-2021||India||Covid is neither first nor last health disaster we’ll experience||We have entered yet another Covid-19 year, worse than we imagined. Clearly, home will be the workplace of the future. Work-from-home has been the reality of millions of home-based workers, but now, as the middle class faces this reality, let’s amplify the need for greener, safer housing.Covid-19 is neither the first nor the last health disaster we will experience. Climate change will present Indians with heat stress and freak weather events. More of us will have to stay home for reasons beyond our control. How should housing adapt to that?In slums, where about 40% of the urban poor live, we need isolation facilities because it’s impossible at home. Community centres, currently in pathetic state where they exist, are essential for people to take shelter, meet and children to study.Alternative cooling, whether solar powered or an architectural innovation, will become lifelines. Villages must similarly reorganise and adapt, using local knowledge. Growing some food at least is essential for a sliver of food security.Housing for the haves must follow similar concepts but community spaces are even more important to counter modern isolation. All spaces must collectively accommodate local sewage treatment, waste and even off-grid electricity.Future crises may paralyse city infrastructure. Decentralization of some pollution control can reduce the risks to our health.There is no place for NIMBY going ahead. The time to show off the very limited green LEED ratings is over. Let’s build and retrofit in a way that is genuinely green for our uncertain future.The author is the founder and director of Chintan Environmental Research and Action Group||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-is-neither-first-nor-last-health-disaster-we-ll-experience-101619999109611.html
03-05-2021||India||Supreme Court pulls up Central govt over differential Covid-19 vaccine pricing||The current vaccination policy would “result in a detriment to the right to public health,” said the Supreme Court as it put the central government in the dock over differential pricing of the vaccines between the Centre and states.A bench, headed by justice Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, maintained that “there are several aspects of the vaccine pricing policy adopted by the Central government which require that policy be revisited,” in particular the rationale behind letting the manufacturers determine the vaccine prices for states and other private entities.“All vaccines, whether in the quantity of 50% purchased by the Central government or the remaining 50%, are to be used for vaccinating citizens. The end use is the same,” noted the bench, adding that to compel the states to negotiate with manufacturers on the ground of promoting competition and making it attractive for new vaccine manufactures will result in a serious detriment to those in the age group of 18 to 44 years, who will be vaccinated by the state governments.The bench, which included justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat, further underscored that the social strata of this age group comprised persons who are Bahujans or belong to other under privileged and marginalised groups.The court asserted that vaccinations being provided to citizens constitute a valuable public good and thus, discrimination cannot be made between different classes of citizens who are similarly circumstanced on the ground that while the Centre will carry the burden of providing free vaccines for the 45 years and above population, the state governments will discharge the responsibility of the 18 to 44 age group on such commercial terms as they may negotiate.“While we are not passing a conclusive determination on the constitutionality of the current policy, the manner in which the current policy has been framed would prima facie result in a detriment to the right to public health which is an integral element of Article 21 (right to life) of the Constitution. Therefore, we believe that the Central government should consider revisiting its current vaccine policy to ensure that it withstands the scrutiny of Articles 14 (equality) and Article 21 of the Constitution,” said the bench, in its order which was released on Sunday evening.The bench asked the Union government to consider procuring vaccines for all the states at the same price, which will then be liable to lift the allocated quantities, and respond by May 10, the next date of hearing.In its order, the top court has also directed the Centre and states to ensure that they immediately cease any direct or indirect threats of prosecution and arrest to citizens who air grievances or those that are attempting to help fellow citizens receive medical aid, failing which the court shall resort to contempt proceedings.Preventing clampdowns on sharing of information on online platforms, it said, is not just in the interest of individuals sharing the information, but the larger democratic structures of our nation.“Without the ready availability of such information, it is entirely possible that the Covid-19 pandemic may turn into a tragedy worse than what it already is,” noted the bench.Clamping down on such information, the order added, “will attract a coercive exercise of jurisdiction by this court”.Calling the Covid situation in Delhi “heart rending”, the court also directed the Central government to ensure the national capital gets the increased demand of 700 metric ton of medical oxygen per day before the Monday midnight.It underscored that 490 MT of oxygen was apparently not adequate for Delhi in view of the city government’s repeated demands for more quantity.The bench rejected a submission of solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who said on behalf of the Centre that no revised projection had been received from the Delhi government nor had it been able to offtake the allocated quantity of oxygen from the supply point due to its own logistical problems.It further noted that there is no national policy on admissions to hospitals while getting a bed has become one of the biggest challenges being faced by most individuals during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. “We direct the Central government to frame a policy in this regard, in exercise of its statutory powers under the Disaster Management Aact, which will be followed nationally. The presence of such a policy shall ensure that no one in need is turned away from a hospital, due to no fault of their own,” it said.Till the time a policy is in place, the court said the Centre must issue guidelines on admission to policies, and directed all states and union territories to follow these guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-pulls-up-central-govt-over-differential-covid-19-vaccine-pricing-101619997534079.html
03-05-2021||India||Uttarakhand adds 5606 fresh Covid-19 cases, 71 people succumb to infection||Uttarakhand on Sunday reported 5606 fresh cases taking the state’s tally of Covid-19 cases to 1,91,620. The state also reported the death of 71 Covid-19 positive patients, taking the total death toll to 2802. Out of 1,91,620, a total of 1,31,114 people have recovered successfully, taking the recovery rate in the state to 68.44%. According to the health bulletin released by the state health department on Sunday evening, Uttarakhand added 5606 cases including a maximum of 2580 cases from Dehradun followed by 628 from Haridwar district. Dehradun district has reported the maximum 66,902 Covid-19 cases so far followed by Haridwar (33,658 ) and Nainital (23,786). The positivity rate in the state has now reached 4.99%. The active cases in the state have now surged to 53,612. The state has so far tested over 38.41 lakh samples of which results of over 23,000 are awaited. Uttarakhand currently has currently 282 containment zones in 12 districts including the maximum 71 in Dehradun, 7 in Haridwar and 43 in Nainital district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-adds-5606-fresh-covid-19-cases-71-people-succumb-to-infection-101619988959040.html
03-05-2021||India||Siddaramaiah slams Centre over surge in Covid cases||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah must take responsibility for Covid-19 deaths after holding several election rallies in West Bengal, former Karnataka chief minister and leader of opposition Siddaramaiah said on Sunday. In a series of tweets, Siddaramaiah said: “@narendramodi & @AmitShah should take responsibility for the loss in West Bengal and also for the death of many innocent people due to #Covid19.” “@BJP4India ignored all expert warnings related to #Covid19 & went ahead by pressurising ECI to conduct elections in West Bengal. It is their selfish motive that led to the rise in #Covid19 cases,” he added.All political parties have come under harsh criticism for organising various poll rallies amid the Covid-19 surge. Daily coronavirus infections have zoomed 75 times in Bengal ever since the Election Commission of India (ECI) announced assembly elections on February 26, Hindustan Times had reported earlier. Siddaramaiah’s remarks also came on a day when the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress registered a landslide victory to retain power in Bengal. In Tamil Nadu too, the saffron party which was in alliance with the All India Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, was defeated by the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK). Meanwhile, the saffron party won two out of three bypoll seats in Karnataka. Polling for these seats was held on April 17.The B S Yediyurappa-led BJP won a hard fought battle in Belagavi where its earlier margins of around 400,000 in the 2019 polls was reduced to just over 5,000 against the Congress.In Basavakalyan, the party secured a comfortable victory after Sharanu Salagar defeated Mala B Narayanrao of the Congress. However, the party lost the Maski seat after Partapgouda Patil was defeated by Congress’ Basanagouda Turvihal.Patil was one of the 17 legislators who defected from the Congress and helped Yediyurappa ride to power in 2019.“I thank the people of Karnataka, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Uttarakhand for blessing the BJP in various by-polls. Our party will keep working for people’s welfare. Gratitude to the BJP Karyakartas for their untiring determination,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/siddaramaiah-slams-centre-over-surge-in-covid-cases-101619986138088.html
03-05-2021||India||Once Mamata Banerjee’s victory ground against Left, Nandigram welcomes BJP||Kolkata: East Midnapore district’s Nandigram — where chief minister Mamata Banerjee contested against her protégé-turned-adversary Suvendu Adhikari — emerged as the biggest head-turner among all the assembly seats in Bengal on Sunday, after Banerjee was defeated by 1,956 votes. The Trinamool Congress (TMC) challenged the verdict and demanded a recount, a request that the Election Commission had not accepted, as of 9pm. “We accept the people’s verdict, but we will move the court against the EC as there were many irregularities during the counting of votes. They (EC) made contradictory announcements, in between which, the EC’s server went down. The verdict does not match the voting pattern in adjacent constituencies and the rest of Bengal. How can there be so much of mismatch?” Banerjee told the media at her south Kolkata residence. Adhikari was not available for comment but Jay Prakash Majumdar, the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) state vice-president said, “Adhikari put up a brave fight. We congratulate him. We will learn from our mistakes but this election will remain as a milestone as the BJP has become the main opposition party in Bengal.” Nandigram went to the polls on April 1 and emerged as epicentre of the battle between the TMC and BJP. On the day the constituency went to the polls, Banerjee alleged that votes were being rigged, visited a booth and stayed there for around two hours. The contest was marked by high-pitch drama even before the election schedule was announced on February 26. Making a move that political observers described as masterstroke, Banerjee, while addressing a rally at Nandigram on January 19, announced that she would contest from there against Adhikari. Adhikari, who resigned from the Nandigram seat and joined the BJP in the presence of Union home minister Amit Shah on December 19, accepted the challenge while addressing a rally in south Kolkata, close to the chief minister’s home. “Write this down and mention the date and time. I will leave politics if I cannot defeat her by half lakh (50,000) votes,” he said. Banerjee took on the BJP from a wheelchair because of a left foot injury she suffered in Nandigram on March 10, hours after filing her nomination papers. After the incident, she alleged that some people intentionally closed the door of her SUV while she was standing on the footboard. The EC, after conducting an inquiry, dismissed the allegation but pulled up several officers and transferred those who were in charge of Banerjee’s security. With about 27% of the 2,57,299 Nandigram voters being Muslims, religion was seen by the BJP as the deciding factor. The assembly segment’s total population is 3,56,382. The seat was in control of the Marxists from 1969 to 2009 with the only exception being the 1977 polls when the Janata Party emerged victorious. Adhikari, who underwent training at Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) camps in his youth, was conscious of the political and demographic equations and repeatedly referred to the chief minister as “begum” (Muslim empress) in all his speeches and accused her of appeasing Muslims. In the 2016 assembly election, Adhikari secured 67% votes in Nandigram while the BJP got only around 5% but the latter made deep inroads in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections and won 29% votes in this assembly segment, nibbling primarily into the Left’s vote share. The BJP won 18 of the state’s 42 Lok Sabha seats that year. On Sunday, Minakshi Mukherjee, the young CPI(M) candidate, ended third in the race. “Adhikari won because he was only BJP candidate who managed to polarize Hindu votes against the TMC. This did not happen elsewhere,” said columnist and political analyst Suvashis Maitra. The saffron camp left no stone unturned to keep Banerjee under pressure. “If Mamata Didi is defeated by a mammoth margin in Nandigram, the Bengal polls are won. That is the easiest way to usher ‘asol paribartan’ (real change) in Bengal,” union minister Amit Shah said after leading a colourful roadshow in the rural seat on March 30. Actor Mithun Chakraborty, the BJP’s star campaigner, followed Shah with a second roadshow on the same day. Banerjee, while addressing a rally on the last day of campaigning, accused the BJP of “bringing in ruffians from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar.” She also targeted Adhikari, repeatedly calling him a “gaddar” (traitor). Banerjee alleged that Adhikari’s men were planning to create communal disturbance in Nandigram and policemen from BJP-ruled states were “terrorizing” voters and “distributing money from the PM Cares fund.” A long resistance against the erstwhile Marxist government’s futile bid to acquire farmland for a chemical hub helped Banerjee come to power. Whether it is the gunning down of 14 villagers by the police on March 14, 2007, or, pitched battles that continued for three years between members of the Bhoomi Uchched Protirodh Committee (BUPC) and Communist Party of India (Marxist), or CPI (M), cadres, Banerjee remained in the limelight by supporting the farmers. During the campaign, Adhikari claimed it was he who stayed with the agitators while Banerjee made occasional trips from Kolkata. Banerjee told voters that Adhikari was lying. She even alleged that Adhikari and his father had a role in the killing of the 14 villagers on March 14, 2007. Her statement triggered a fresh debate with Adhikari questioning the TMC chief’s decision to induct retired police officer Satyajit Bandopadhyay who was among the officers sent to Nandigram on the day the villagers were killed. For Adhikari, a son of the soil, the election was an acid test. His brother Dibyendu, the TMC Lok Sabha member from Tamluk, was seen at BJP rallies. Soumendu, the youngest sibling, switched sides in December last year. Their father Sisir Adhikari, the octogenarian Lok Sabha member from East Midnapore’s Contai, joined the BJP on March 21. Nandigram is part of the Tamluk Lok Sabha seat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/once-mamata-banerjee-s-victory-ground-against-left-nandigram-welcomes-bjp-101619986079524.html
03-05-2021||India||How Didi can remain CM despite losing Nandigram||New Delhi: Even as Mamata Banerjee has lost the assembly election in Nandigram to BJP’s Suvendu AdhikarI -- a loss her party has said she will challenge — she can easily remain the chief minister of West Bengal. Article 164 of the Indian Constitution lays down the conditions of taking oath as a minister. Article 164(4) says, “A Minister who for any period of six consecutive months is not a member of the Legislature of the State shall at the expiration of that period cease to be a Minister.” In other words, Banerjee will get six months to get elected from any Bengal constituency in a by-poll to hold on to the CM’s chair. In 2011, when Banerjee took oath as the CM for the first time, she was a member of Parliament as she didn’t contest the assembly elections. After a few months, she got elected from Bhabanipur. Congress leader and legal expert Abhishek Singhvi said, “Constitutionally, legally and morally, no one can or should object to Mamata Banerjee becoming the CM and getting elected within six months. If anyone objects, it would not only be churlish but would also betray a lack of knowledge of the Indian constitution.” The TMC’s win is its third successive one in the state and tightens Banerjee’s hold over West Bengal, something that seemed tenuous just a few weeks ago. It also strengthens her standing in the national scheme of things in a non-BJP, non-Congress grouping. The fact that she held off the challenge from a pantheon of national leaders including Prime Minister Narendra Modi -- it was truly a PM vs CM battle -- is certain to add to her image as a fighter. An emphasis on welfare schemes (especially those targetting women), and a campaign focused on portraying Banerjee as “Bengal’s daughter” helped overcome anti-incumbency, and a spate of defections engineered by the BJP, including of her one-time protege Adhikari, who went on to defeat her from Nandigram. Much like for state assemblies, a similar provision of becoming minister first and getting elected later also exists in Parliament. Article 75 (5) of the Constitution said, A Minister who for any period of six consecutive months is not a member of either House of Parliament shall at the expiration of that period cease to be a Minister.” In 2004, BJP’s Smriti Irani became the union minister even after losing the election. Earlier during the UPA, Shivraj Patil had become the union minister after losing in the Lok Sabha polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-didi-can-remain-cm-despite-losing-nandigram-101619986018021.html
03-05-2021||India||Covid norms flouted at UP counting centres||Despite restrictions in place to prevent the spread of Covid-19, large gatherings of candidates and their supporters were witnessed at most of the 829 centres where the counting of votes for the three-tier panchayat polls was underway in Uttar Pradesh on Sunday.Police personnel were seen having a tough time managing the crowd, even as the State Election Commission (SEC) on Sunday said the final results were expected to be available after Monday noon.“As per the information available till now, as many as 16,510 village pradhans, 112,358 village ward members and 35,812 kshetra panchayat members have been declared elected so far,” a spokesman for the commission said in a written statement on Sunday evening.An SEC official said, “The counting of votes has begun at all the centres after preparing bundles of ballot papers.” He said that all measures were being taken to enforce the Covid-19 protocols.As per the order issued earlier, candidates and their agents were allowed to enter the counting centres only if they have tested negative for Covid-19 in the 48 hours prior to the commencement of the counting process or taken both doses of the vaccine.However, physical distancing norms were flouted at most of the counting centres in Agra, Kasganj, Etah, Firozabad and Aligarh on Sunday. In Etah, supporters of two candidates came to blows as the situation escalated and it was brought under control by the police, who disallowed victory processions. The Supreme Court on Saturday had refused to stay the counting process. In a special urgent hearing, a bench of justices AM Khanwilkar and Hrishikesh Roy passed the order after taking note of several notifications and assurances of the SEC that the Covid-19 protocols will be followed.The SEC official cited above said that only the overall results would be declared, and no party-wise results would be made available.“In UP, panchayat polls are not fought on party lines even though many political parties do back candidates and claim their victory accordingly,” he said. The counting will determine the fate of over 1.2 million candidates who were in the fray for the posts of village pradhans, village ward members, kshetra panchayat ward members and zila panchayat ward members. Around 120 million rural voters participated in the four-phase voting exercise that ended on April 29. Voting for all the posts was held by ballot papers across 203,050 polling booths, comprising more than 80,000 polling centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-norms-flouted-at-up-counting-centres-101619985898576.html
03-05-2021||India||Jaishankar set for G7 ministers’ meeting in UK||External affairs minister S Jaishankar will on Monday begin a four-day visit to the United Kingdom to participate in the G7 foreign ministers’ meeting and to hold bilateral meetings with British interlocutors. The UK is hosting the first in-person G7 foreign ministers meeting in two years, in London, from May 3 to 5. India, Australia, South Korea, South Africa and the chair and secretary general of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (Asean) have been invited as guests. Jaishankar will “thereafter undertake a bilateral visit to the UK”, the external affairs ministry said. This will be Jaishankar’s first visit abroad since India was hit by a second wave of coronavirus infections. It will come ahead of a virtual meeting between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his British counterpart Boris Johnson on Tuesday. The G7 foreign ministers’ meeting will focus on geopolitical priorities, such as Russia, China and Iran, the British foreign office said in a tweet. It will also take up global challenges, including climate change, the Covid-19 pandemic and famine. “It will also draw on broader experience with guest delegates from the Indo-Pacific region,” the foreign office added. British authorities have put in place strict Covid-secure measures for the meeting. There will be daily Covid-19 tests throughout the meeting, including self-test kits and an on-site testing facility, strict guidelines on social distancing, with limitations on the size of delegations. The delegates will be separated by perspex screens. The meeting is a “crucial opportunity to revitalise in-person diplomacy and will look to establish a shared approach among the world’s leading democracies on equitable vaccine access, to agree global girls’ education targets, rigorous goals on climate finance and new measures to prevent famine and food insecurity”, the foreign office said. The last G7 foreign ministers meeting was held at Dinard and Saint-Malo in France in April 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-set-for-g7-ministers-meeting-in-uk-101619985898021.html
03-05-2021||India||Centre, Cong spar over O2 supply to embassies||New Delhi: The government and the Congress were embroiled in a spat on Sunday over the supply of oxygen to two foreign missions in New Delhi, with external affairs minister S Jaishankar accusing the main opposition party of indulging in “cheap publicity”.The war of words erupted after posts on social media on the supply of oxygen cylinders to the Philippines embassy on Saturday and the New Zealand high commission on Sunday. The Youth Congress, which has played a key role in responding to urgent requests for oxygen, posted videos of its members delivering oxygen cylinders to both missions.Jaishankar said the external affairs ministry ascertained that there are no Covid-19 cases in the Philippines embassy and the matter was tantamount to “unsolicited supply”. “MEA checked with the Philippines Embassy. This was an unsolicited supply as they had no Covid cases. Clearly for cheap publicity by you know who. Giving away cylinders like this when there are people in desperate need of oxygen is simply appalling,” he tweeted.Jaishankar was responding to a post by senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh, who tweeted: “While I thank @IYC for its stellar efforts, as an Indian citizen I’m stunned that the youth wing of the opposition party is attending to SOS calls from foreign embassies. Is the MEA sleeping @DrSJaishankar ?” The minister added in another tweet: “Jairamji, MEA never sleeps; our people know across the world. MEA also never fakes; we know who does.” External affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi, in a statement, indicated that there should be no hoarding of essential supplies such as oxygen by foreign missions. Bagchi said the chief of protocol and heads of regional divisions in the ministry are in “continuous touch” with high commissions and embassies, and the ministry is “responding to their medical demands, especially those related to Covid”. “This includes facilitating their hospital treatment. Given the pandemic situation, all are urged not to hoard essential supplies, including oxygen,” he added.It was not immediately clear whether any mission had approached the external affairs ministry for oxygen or assistance in obtaining hospital beds. People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that some foreign missions had faced problems in recent days in arranging hospital beds in Delhi and Gurugram for local staffers who tested positive for Covid-19. The people added there were instances of some missions facing problems in procuring medicines such as Remdesivir and having to buy them for more than ₹30,000 a dose. The price of different versions of Remdesivir ranges from ₹900 to about ₹3,500. Meanwhile, Indian Youth Congress president BV Srinivas told reporters that a volunteer had been contacted by someone acting on behalf of the Philippines embassy for the supply of oxygen cylinders. The person said oxygen was needed for two people in the embassy.Though there was reportedly a need for 10 small cylinders, the Youth Congress posted a video on Twitter that showed two large cylinders being delivered to the Philippines embassy. The Youth Congress also tweeted what it said were screenshots of phone call records and exchange of messages with the person from the Philippines embassy regarding the supply of oxygen.The Youth Congress posted a separate video of its volunteers delivering oxygen cylinders to the New Zealand mission. Srinivas tweeted the mission opened its gates, accepted the cylinders and thanked the Youth Congress team “for this quick relief as patient inside embassy was critically ill”.Earlier, the New Zealand high commission purportedly deleted a tweet tagging the Youth Congress and Srinivas that said, “Could you please help with oxygen cylinder urgently at the New Zealand High Commission? Thank you.” Screenshots of this tweet were widely shared on social media.The New Zealand mission said in a subsequent tweet: “We are trying all sources to arrange for oxygen cylinders urgently and our appeal has unfortunately been misinterpreted, for which we are sorry.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-cong-spar-over-o2-supply-to-embassies-101619985777996.html
03-05-2021||India||UP Panchayat polls: Covid-19 norms flouted at counting centres||Despite restrictions in place to prevent the spread of Covid-19, large gatherings of candidates and their supporters were witnessed at most of the 829 centres where the counting of votes for the three-tier panchayat polls was underway in Uttar Pradesh on Sunday.Police personnel were seen having a tough time managing the crowd, even as the State Election Commission (SEC) on Sunday said the final results were expected to be available after Monday noon.“As per the information available till now, as many as 16,510 village pradhans, 112,358 village ward members and 35,812 kshetra panchayat members have been declared elected so far,” a spokesman for the commission said in a written statement on Sunday evening.An SEC official said, “The counting of votes has begun at all the centres after preparing bundles of ballot papers.” He said that all measures were being taken to enforce the Covid-19 protocols.As per the order issued earlier, candidates and their agents were allowed to enter the counting centres only if they have tested negative for Covid-19 in the 48 hours prior to the commencement of the counting process or taken both doses of the vaccine.However, physical distancing norms were flouted at most of the counting centres in Agra, Kasganj, Etah, Firozabad and Aligarh on Sunday.In Etah, supporters of two candidates came to blows as the situation escalated and it was brought under control by the police, who disallowed victory processions.The Supreme Court on Saturday had refused to stay the counting process. In a special urgent hearing, a bench of justices AM Khanwilkar and Hrishikesh Roy passed the order after taking note of several notifications and assurances of the SEC that the Covid-19 protocols will be followed.The SEC official cited above said that only the overall results would be declared, and no party-wise results would be made available. “In UP, panchayat polls are not fought on party lines even though many political parties do back candidates and claim their victory accordingly,” he said.The counting will determine the fate of over 1.2 million candidates who were in the fray for the posts of village pradhans, village ward members, kshetra panchayat ward members and zila panchayat ward members. Around 120 million rural voters participated in the four-phase voting exercise that ended on April 29. Voting for all the posts was held by ballot papers across 203,050 polling booths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-panchayat-polls-large-crowds-seen-during-vote-count-101619982777877.html
03-05-2021||India||S Jaishankar set for G7 ministers’ meeting in UK||External affairs minister S Jaishankar will on Monday begin a four-day visit to the United Kingdom to participate in the G7 foreign ministers’ meeting and to hold bilateral meetings with British interlocutors.The UK is hosting the first in-person G7 foreign ministers meeting in two years, in London, from May 3 to 5. India, Australia, South Korea, South Africa and the chair and secretary general of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (Asean) have been invited as guests.The visit will come ahead of a virtual meeting between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his British counterpart Boris Johnson on Tuesday.The G7 foreign ministers’ meeting will focus on geopolitical priorities, such as Russia, China and Iran, the British foreign office said in a tweet. It will also take up global challenges, including climate change, the Covid-19 pandemic and famine.The meeting is a “crucial opportunity to revitalise in-person diplomacy and will look to establish a shared approach among the world’s leading democracies on equitable vaccine access, to agree global girls’ education targets, rigorous goals on climate finance and new measures to prevent famine and food insecurity,” the foreign office said.The last G7 foreign ministers meeting was held at Dinard and Saint-Malo in France in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/s-jaishankar-set-for-g7-ministers-meeting-in-uk-101619972528499.html
03-05-2021||India||PM Modi chairs meeting to review tapping of oxygen supply for medical use||As India continues to witness a shortage of medical oxygen amid rising Covid-19 cases, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday chaired a meeting to review the usage of oxygen in the country that can be tapped for medical use. At the meeting, the PM also reviewed the feasibility of converting the existing nitrogen plants in the country to produce oxygen for medical use.“Many industries using rich combustion processes and power plants have oxygen plants which produce gaseous oxygen which can be tapped for medical use. A strategy has been put in place to identify such industrial units which are closer to demand centres and establish temporary Covid care centres with oxygenated beds near that source. A pilot for five such facilities had already been initiated,” the PM was informed, according to a statement released by the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO).The meeting was attended by principal secretary PK Mishra, cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba and home secretary Ajay Bhalla.The statement added that it is expected that around 10,000 oxygenated beds will be made available shortly by making temporary hospitals near oxygen plants.With regard to the conversion of nitrogen plants to produce oxygen for medical use, the PMO said that conversion of nitrogen plants to produce medical oxygen is under progress at 14 industries.The PMO, in its statement, said that 37 more nitrogen plants have also been identified with the help of industry associations.“Such a modified nitrogen plant can be either shifted to a nearby hospital or, in case it is not feasible to shift the plant, it can be used for on-site production of oxygen, which can be transported to hospital through specialized vessels/cylinders,” the PM was informed.India on Sunday reported 392,488 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, down from the high of over 400,000 cases a day ago, taking the cumulative count of the cases to 19,557,457, the Union health ministry said.According to the data, as many as 3,689 people succumbed to the infection in the last 24 hours, taking the toll in the country to 215,542.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-chairs-meeting-to-review-tapping-of-oxygen-supply-for-medical-use-101619955777395.html
03-05-2021||India||MEA, Congress spat over oxygen delivery to 2 foreign missions||The government and the Congress were embroiled in a spat on Sunday over the supply of oxygen to two foreign missions in New Delhi, with external affairs minister S Jaishankar accusing the main opposition party of indulging in “cheap publicity”.The war of words erupted after posts on social media on the supply of oxygen cylinders to the Philippines embassy on Saturday and the New Zealand high commission on Sunday. The Youth Congress, which has played a key role in responding to urgent requests for oxygen, posted videos of its members delivering oxygen cylinders to both missions.Jaishankar said the external affairs ministry ascertained that there are no Covid-19 cases in the Philippines embassy and the matter was tantamount to “unsolicited supply”.“MEA checked with the Philippines Embassy. This was an unsolicited supply as they had no Covid cases. Clearly for cheap publicity by you know who. Giving away cylinders like this when there are people in desperate need of oxygen is simply appalling,” he tweeted.Jaishankar was responding to a post by senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh, who tweeted: “While I thank @IYC for its stellar efforts, as an Indian citizen I’m stunned that the youth wing of the opposition party is attending to SOS calls from foreign embassies. Is the MEA sleeping @DrSJaishankar ?”External affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said the chief of protocol and heads of regional divisions in the ministry are in “continuous touch” with high commissions and embassies, and the ministry is “responding to their medical demands, especially those related to Covid”.It was not immediately clear whether any mission had approached the external affairs ministry for oxygen or assistance in obtaining hospital beds.People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that some foreign missions had faced problems in recent days in arranging hospital beds for local staffers who tested positive for Covid-19.Meanwhile, Indian Youth Congress president BV Srinivas told reporters that a volunteer had been contacted by someone acting on behalf of the Philippines embassy. The Youth Congress tweeted what it said were screenshots of phone call records and exchange of messages with the person from the Philippines embassy.Earlier, the New Zealand high commission purportedly deleted a tweet tagging the Youth Congress that sought help with oxygen supply. Screenshots of this tweet were widely shared on social media.The New Zealand mission said in a subsequent tweet: “We are trying all sources to arrange for oxygen cylinders urgently and our appeal has unfortunately been misinterpreted, for which we are sorry.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mea-congress-spar-over-oxygen-supplies-for-foreign-missions-101619953437240.html
03-05-2021||India||Good Samaritans offer hope as Covid crisis grips Bengaluru||With Bengaluru struggling to cope up with rising Covid cases, good Samaritans in the city have rolled up their sleeves to extend a helping hand to those in need. Volunteers from various backgrounds such as software industry, business, life sciences, administration and several other sectors are giving it their all in Bengaluru, which has been one of the most impacted cities in the country during the second wave of infections.On March 22, Rohan Menezes, a graphic designer was desperately looking for beds for his aunt, who had tested positive for the Covid-19. “We had contacted the BBMP but there was no response for hours. Then I put out a request on Twitter and in no time, I received several calls and messages informing me about where I could find a bed. They found my number on Twitter and within a couple of hours, some volunteers were able to get me a bed in a private hospital in Marathahalli,” he said.The efforts of volunteers, both organised and individuals, had become the key link for dissemination of information, supply of food and other essentials and even helping ferry the large number of migrants who left Bengaluru back to their home states fearing the uncertainty.Nagendra M was one of the many volunteers who is involved in helping find beds. Nagendra, who works with the civil defence network said that they have been receiving several calls in the past couple of weeks. “The last few days we are getting calls for arranging ventilator beds, oxygen and procurement of drugs like Remdesivir. We also arranged for ambulances and coordinated with our network in other localities for moving people to hospitals and sometimes even for cremation,” he said.The rapid rise in cases has added to the strain on the inadequate healthcare infrastructure that was left unprepared by the government, who was warned of an imminent second wave in the state in November last year. With the piling up of dead bodies outside crematoriums and families running from hospital to hospital to get admission, volunteers have stepped in to help those in dire need.In the past few months several NGOs, private groups and individuals came together to form an umbrella group – the Mercy Mission.“It all started during the first wave with the mercy angels. In the initial days, there was a lot of stigma around burying bodies of Covid patients, so some volunteers came forwards to provide people with an honourable burial. In the second wave, this has expanded with multiple verticals like oxygen supply, providing medicines, arranging ambulances and providing food etc. We also have a call centre now which gets around 5,000 calls a day,” said Syed Tousif Masood, a volunteer with Mercy Mission.Apart from Mercy Mission, there are several others who help patients, like Sneha Vachhaney who has created a platform for home chefs providing food for those in need. “In the initial days, I was cooking around 50 meals a day to distribute around the area I lived in. Soon, I realised that there was a large demand for meals for those who are in quarantine. Then we put out a call for home chefs and so far around 200 of them have responded,” said Sneha.Sneha who comes from a corporate background said soon she realised that just cooking meals won’t be enough and her expertise could be used for scaling this process. “With help of my friends, we have created a platform where home chefs can join, and this process is streamlined. We also contacted food delivery companies like Swiggy and Dunzo for our deliveries as the numbers increased,” she said; adding that Bengaluru’s tech background came to help after all.At the same time, several technology experts and volunteers are trying to help build chatbots and other solutions to streamline the system to ease the pressure on existing infrastructure. A qualified group of persons from Bengaluru among other places like Hyderabad and Coimbatore have created a WhatsApp bot and other technological interventions to complement the existing voice call-based support system for dissemination of Covid-19 information and to reduce the stress on the already overstretched resources.The team, which comprises Artificial Intelligence (AI) and other software solutions startups, are using their technical expertise to streamline a volume of requests in Bengaluru by collating information and providing a platform to integrate both government and volunteer-driven efforts in order to gain a grip on the pandemic, people aware with the developments said.“Last time around, there were multiple people trying to solve a problem. Chatbots hadn’t percolated as much but most of the chats happened via WhatsApp as people forwarded everything through the platform. We learnt from that and decided to use WhatsApp as a chatbot-based system. There is no soiling of information, everything is put into a google sheet which every non-profit or CSO (central statistics office) sector person knows how to use,” Gautam Prakash, co-founder and chief problem solver at Reap Benefit, a startup that devises community-based solutions, said.The WhatsApp bot, which is expected to be rolled out anytime soon, aims to reduce the burden on call centres that have witnessed a three-fold increase in traffic since the beginning of March, as reported by Hindustan Times earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/good-samaritans-offer-hope-as-covid-crisis-grips-bluru-101619893493990.html
03-05-2021||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||How many dead are there, really?Delhi’s crematoriums running out of wood, underreported deaths from Bihar and Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh — newspapers and websites (including HT) have been peppered with anecdotal reports over the past few weeks that show that many states are under-reporting the number of coronavirus disease or Covid-19 deaths. In the absence of reliable, timely, and comprehensive death records, at the local level, aggregating up to the national — and the problem is on all three fronts, reliability, timeliness, and comprehensiveness — there has been a lot of speculation, and scientific exploration, some reasoned, others not-so, on the actual number of deaths. Is it twice the reported number, five times, thirty?This instalment of my column will try and answer that. It’s a question I have sought to answer time and again, over the past 14 months in this column, but never in as much detail as I do here.There are two parts to the exercise and both involve assumptions.The first is the actual number of Covid-19 infections in the country. There’s been quite a bit of research on this — in the US, France, Austria, and several other countries. Most suggest that the cases are likely underreported by 75-90%. Or, at the upper bound, the number of actual infections is 10 times the reported number of cases. India reported 18.75 million cases of Covid-19 till Thursday night. That translates into 187.5 million overall infections. What if the multiple is 15? After all, India is a large country, with a huge rural population, and with very poor testing infrastructure in many predominantly rural states. Then the number of infections is 281.25 million.The second is the infection fatality rate for Covid-19. Again, there is a lot of research on this, including by Murad Banaji (on the pre print server medRxiv, and the paper is yet to be peer reviewed, but it looks solid) on the infection fatality rate in Mumbai. He arrives at a number of 0.23% (median). Interestingly, this number is exactly the same arrived at by a meta-study of data from 51 regions carried out by John P A Ioannidis at Stanford University’s Meta-Research Innovation Centre (and published in a bulletin of WHO). Sure, Ioannidis’s research may be unrepresentative because it was carried out at a time when the world was still learning how to treat Covid-19 (progressive case fatality rates have become better, which implies that progressive infection fatality rates also might have). So, it’s possible that the actual infection fatality rate is lower, say 0.115%.Now, assuming these two sets of numbers, it’s possible to calculate the actual number of dead in India.With only one in 10 cases reported, and a 0.115% infection fatality rate, this is 215,625 deaths.With one in 10 cases reported, and a 0.23% infection fatality rate, this is 430,675.With one in 15 cases reported and a 0.115% infection fatality rate, this is 323,438.And with one in 15 cases reported and a 0.23% infection fatality rate, this is 646,875.That gives us a range of 215,625 to 646,875 overall deaths. My own estimate is that the real number will likely be around the midpoint of this range — 431,250.India ended Thursday with 208,332 recorded deaths.This would suggest that around half the deaths in India are unreported, which is plausible. That would also take India’s case fatality rate to 2.3%, which is definitely more believable than the current number.Reports suggesting the actual number of deaths is 5x or 10x or maybe even more are likely exaggerations and over-exaggerations, although even the 2x number I have arrived at above is worrying — but not surprising.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-what-you-need-to-know-today-101619821191125.html
