05-05-2021||India||Mamata Banerjee sworn in as Bengal CM, Governor points at post-poll violence||Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief Mamata Banerjee took oath as chief minister of West Bengal for the third time at Kolkata’s Raj Bhawan on Wednesday morning but the short 50-minute ceremony was marked by references to post-poll violence by governor Jagdeep Dhankhar and absence of senior leaders from the opposition parties. For the first time, no Left, Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader attended the ceremony. Bengal Congress president Adhir Chowdhury, whose party could not win a single seat, was at home in Murshidabad district. CPI (M) leader and Left Front chairman Biman Bose too did not attend the meeting. The Left parties too scored a nil in the contest. BJP state president Dilip Ghosh, whose party is now the principal opposition said, “I stayed away in protest against the attack on our supporters across the state.” The BJP won 77 out of 292 seats. Polls at two assembly seats in Murshidabad will be held later as two candidates have died of Covid-19 in mid-April. Banerjee was sworn in by Dhankhar at 10.45 am. The ceremony was followed by a tea session. Other ministers will be sworn in on Thursday by TMC leader Subrata Mukherjee, the protem speaker. Dhankhar, while delivering a speech after the ceremony, referred to the incidents of violence. “For the sake of people’s interest, we have to rise above partisan interest,” he said. In her brief speech, Banerjee appealed to all political parties to maintain peace. “No violence will be tolerated. We will take stern action,” she said. While talking to reporters after the ceremony, Dhankhar indirectly accused the chief minister of not taking any action to stop the violence after poll results were announced on May 2. “Please check the law and find out when the model code of conduct for the elections ended,” he said when he was told that TMC argued that Banerjee could not give orders to government officers as the model code was in force. “It is unfortunate that within 30 minutes of reading out the oath the governor attacked the government,” said TMC secretary general Partha Chatterjee who attended the ceremony. Banerjee entered Nabanna, the state secretariat in Howrah district, at 11.40 am. Top bureaucrats welcomed her with a guard of honour. In view of the sharp spike in coronavirus infections in the state, the guest list at Raj Bhawan was kept short and only a handful of elected TMC candidates and prospective members of the upcoming cabinet accompanied Banerjee. Those who visited Raj Bhawan included Banerjee’s nephew and the party’s youth wing president Abhishek Banerjee and her election strategist Prashant Kishor. Dhankhar was seen interacting with Abhishek Banerjee and Kishor while greeting the guests. The TMC leadership had also invited CPI(M)’s stalwart Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee but the former chief minister, who is indisposed for a long time, could not leave home. National leaders who congratulated Banerjee on Twitter included Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot, NCP president Sharad Pawar, Samajwadi Party leader Akhilesh Yadav, DMK leader M K Stalin, Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel, Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren, RJD leaders Lalu Prasad Yadav and his son Tejashwi Yadav, JKNC vice-president Omar Abdullah and JKPDP president Mehbooba Mufti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-banerjee-sworn-in-as-bengal-cm-governor-points-at-post-poll-violence-101620238898528.html
05-05-2021||India||Railways increase supply of oxygen to Delhi, delivers 707 MT amid shortage||Delhi has been given 707 MT of oxygen via Oxygen Express trains by the Railways since the trains began operating last month while Uttar Pradesh received 641 MT, according to data from the railway ministry. In a significant ramp up of supply to the national capital over the past two days, the national carrier has been delivering more than 200 MT liquid oxygen daily to Delhi since Monday amid acute shortage. Among other states Delhi has received the maximum supply till now followed by 174 MT oxygen to Maharashtra, 641 MT to UP, 190 MT to MP, 229MT to Haryana so far, according to the ministry of railways. “Overcoming all hurdles and finding new solutions, Indian Railways is continuing its journey of bringing relief by delivering liquid medical oxygen to various states across the country. So far, Indian Railways has delivered 2067MT (approx.) of LMO in 137 tankers to various states across the country,” the ministry said in a statement on Wednesday morning. 34 Oxygen Express trains have already completed their journey so far and have delivered more than 2067 metric tonnes liquid medical oxygen (LMO) to various states. Till Tuesday evening, 10 oxygen express trains with 37 tankers on board were en route to various states while 58 trains have completed their journey so far. On Monday, Delhi received 205 MT and on Tuesday morning it received 244 MT of liquid medical oxygen, according to the ministry. The move is expected to give a breather to the national capital struggling with acute shortage of oxygen supply since the past few weeks. The Delhi government has demanded 976 MT of medical oxygen to add 1,200 ICU and 15,000 oxygen beds. Several hospitals in Delhi sent out desperate calls to authorities to replenish their oxygen supplies when they dropped precariously, threatening lives as the health infrastructure was crumbling under the pressure of an unprecedented rise in the number of Covid-19 patients requiring oxygen or ICU support. The Central government last week directed states to ensure free movement of vehicles carrying oxygen amid reports of some states diverting the vehicles for local use even as hospitals sent out frantic appeals for emergency supplies. Railways has also said that the decision for allocating oxygen supply to states comes under the Empowered Group 2 (EG2), a group formed by the PMO comprising officials from different ministries and experts. The group has been given the job of mapping the sources of medical oxygen and their production capacity to match the requirement of 12 high-burden states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-increase-supply-of-oxygen-to-delhi-delivers-707-mt-amid-shortage-101620236258232.html
05-05-2021||India||Covid-19: Routine surgeries deferred in hospitals across Jammu division||The authorities in Jammu issued an order on Wednesday deferring routine surgeries in government and private health institutions in the division, owing to the ongoing surge in Covid-19 cases.Issued by Divisional Commissioner Raghav Langer, the order, however, said emergency services and critical care required for co-morbid and dialysis patients, and maternal and child health services would continue as usual."In view of the prevailing situation of Covid-19 pandemic in Jammu Division which demands optimal utilisation of available resources so that the existing infrastructure/healthcare facilities are not overburdened, the elective/routine surgeries are required to be deferred," Langer said in the order.He said the main focus of the healthcare system at this juncture was the management of Covid-19 cases."All elective/routine surgeries shall be deferred in government as well as private health institutions in the division; unless there are pressing medical reasons and the benefits of such procedure outweigh the risk related to COVID-19 situation and its fallout," the order said.Langer directed district magistrates and chief medical officers to conduct random inspections and audits of healthcare institutions to enforce compliance of the order."The order shall be reviewed periodically based on the evolving Covid-19 situation," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/routine-surgeries-deferred-in-hospitals-across-jammu-division-101620208348694.html
05-05-2021||India||Covid: Telangana HC tells state govt to mull weekend curfew, among other steps||The Telangana High Court on Wednesday directed the State government to review the Covid-19 situation and consider imposing additional measures such as implementing weekend lockdown and extending the present curfew hours to flatten the virus curve. A Bench of Chief JusticeHimaKohliand Justice B Vijaysen Reddy, while hearing a batch of PILs (public interest litigations) on Covid-19 issues, directed the government that the review should be done before May 8. Currently, nightcurfew from 9 pm to 5 am the next day is in force until May 8 (5 am). Also, the court directed the Centre to ensure proper supply of oxygen to the State after the Telangana Public Health Director informed the court that the gas tankers meant for the State were being stopped in Tamil Nadu. Meanwhile, Telangana Chief Secretary told reporters that the pandemic situation in the State was under control and cases were expected to decline in the coming days. He further said the situation was not alarming and the government would examine the direction given by the court and take appropriate decisions on weekend lockdown. The government knows that the situation is under control and we also know that there is not much use with lockdown, he said. He said there was a need to follow treatment protocols and rules to contain the spread of the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-telangana-hc-tells-state-govt-to-mull-weekend-curfew-among-other-steps-101620234194369.html
05-05-2021||India||Covid-19 aid from global community allocated to states, says Centre||The Centre on Wednesday said that the medical supplies sent by the global community to help India fight the second wave of coronavirus pandemic have been allocated to the states and the Union territories. India has been receiving international donations in the form of essential equipment required to fight the coronavirus disease from various countries across the world, including the United Kingdom, Ireland, Romania, Russia, the UAE, the United States, Taiwan, Kuwait, France, Thailand, Germany, Uzbekistan, Belgium, Italy, etc.The countries have been aiding India by sending oxygen concentrators, oxygen cylinders, ventilators, vials of anti-malarial drug Remdesivir and strips of Favipiravir among other critical equipment.So far, India has received 1,764 oxygen concentrators, 1,760 oxygen cylinders, 450 ventilators, more than 1.35 lakh vials of Remdesivir and over 1.2 lakh strips of Favipiravir drugs, 7 oxygen generation plants, apart from shipment of N95 masks and PPE kits.The Centre said the consignments received from the international community till Tuesday have already been allocated to the states and the Union territories. It further said that while most of the equipment has already been delivered and the rest are in transit. "A streamlined and systematic mechanism for allocation of the support supplies received by India has been put into place by Government of India for effective distribution of the medical and other relief and support material. A Standard Operating Procedure has been framed and implemented by the Health Ministry since 2nd May, 2021. A dedicated Coordination Cell has been created in the Health Ministry to coordinate the receipt and allocation of foreign COVID relief material as grants, aid and donations. This Cell started functioning from 26th April 2021," read a statement released by the government on Wednesday.The Union ministry of health and family welfare allocated the medical supplies and the equipment to 38 tertiary care institutions and 31 States in the first tranche, the government informed. "This is done considering certain criteria like number of active cases, case fatality rate, positivity rate, need, etc," the statement read. More than 40 countries, including major powers such as the US, Russia, France and Germany, have committed to provide urgently needed items and Indian and foreign corporations are helping with procurements. Indian community associations in many countries too are pitching in to provide relief materials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-aid-from-global-community-allocated-to-states-says-centre-101620229594214.html
05-05-2021||India||Maharashtra CM addresses state on Maratha verdict, Covid-19: Top 5 quotes||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday addressed the state after the Supreme Court's verdict on Maratha reservation. Thackeray termed the verdict as 'disappointing' and said that the longstanding demand for reservation for Marathas amplifies across the state. Thackeray also spoke on the challenges that the state faces owing to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic that has spiralled out of control. Maharashtra continues to be the worst-affected state due to the second, more deadlier wave of Covid-19 since February.Here are the top quotes from chief minister Uddhav Thackeray's address to the state of Maharashtra:On coronavirus situation in the state"The Covid-19 cases have already started declining in some districts but they are rising in others. We have to be careful as the third wave of Covid-19 is coming."On Maharashtra's preparedness to fight the pandemic"We have started preparations for the third wave. We have directed to increase oxygen production by 3,000 metric tonnes from the current 1,200 metric tonnes. We have also started 'Mission Oxygen' so that there is no shortage of medical oxygen in the state."On Supreme Court's verdict on Maratha reservation"The verdict on the Maratha reservation is disappointing. We have been fighting for it for the last many years. All the parties unanimously cleared it in the state legislature. It was challenged in the high court and was cleared, after which it was challenged in the Supreme Court. Today the decision by the apex court has shown us a way. The court has said that the right to give reservation is with the Centre and the President."On Centre's role in the Maratha reservation"The Centre has taken stand in matters be it Shah Bano case or the abrogation of Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir. I request them with folded hands to take a decision."On the next by the Maharashtra government on Maratha reservation"We will send an official letter tomorrow in this regard. We will personally go and meet as well, if it is required. This demand is not just of a community but of the entire Maharashtra. I feel that it will not be disrespected by the Prime Minister or the Centre."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-cm-addresses-state-on-maratha-verdict-covid-19-top-5-quotes-101620229125025.html
05-05-2021||India||12 states account for more than 100,000 active Covid cases, health ministry says||The Union health and family welfare ministry on Wednesday said that at least 12 states have more than 100,000 active cases and expressed concern about the 2.4% day-on-day growth in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases which is being seen across the country. The government also said that Maharashtra, Kerala, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh currently have more than 1.5 lakh active Covid-19 cases.The health ministry also pointed out that some cities like Bengaluru, Chennai, Kozhikode, Ernakulam and Gurugram are a cause of concern as these areas have seen a quick surge in Covid-19 cases. “There are certain areas which are concerning and some districts have reported a quick surge in the number of cases. Bengaluru reported around 1.49 lakh cases in the last one week. Chennai reported 38,000 cases. Some districts have recorded faster Covid-19 cases and these include Kozhikode, Ernakulam and Gurugram,” Lav Agarwal, joint secretary of health ministry said.Agarwal also pointed out that Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Delhi, and Haryana have reported a higher number of deaths due to Covid-19. He further said that seven states have more than 50,000 active cases and 17 states have less than 50,000 active cases of Covid-19.The government’s principal scientific advisor K Vijay Raghavan also warned against complacency and said that variants that will evade immunity as well as vaccines could arise in the future. Raghavan added that vaccines are the best tools at hand which can help fight Covid-19.The health ministry highlighted that 671,000 people in the age group of 18-44 years have been administered vaccine and the vaccination drive under Phase III is going smoothly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/12-states-account-for-more-than-100-000-active-covid-cases-health-ministry-says-101620228815397.html
05-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: UP CM inaugurates DRDO's 1st makeshift Covid hospital in Lucknow and all the latest news||YHere are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.UP CM inaugurates DRDO’s first makeshift 505-bed hospital in LucknowChief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday inaugurated a 505-bed makeshift Covid hospital set up by Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) at Awadh Shilp Gram in Lucknow. Read moreCovid-19 surge: EC defers bypolls to 3 Lok Sabha, 8 assembly seatsAs India continues to battle a deadly second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, the Election Commission of India (ECI) on Wednesday deferred by-elections of parliamentary and assembly constituencies in various states and Union territories. Read moreCanada approves Pfizer Covid-19 vaccine for kids aged 12 and aboveCanada on Wednesday approved the use of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine in children aged 12 years and up, becoming the first nation to do so. Read moreTrade deal between EU, US would 'make a lot of sense': German chancellor MerkelA trade agreement between the United States and the European Union would "make a lot of sense", German Chancellor Angela Merkel said in a speech in which she welcomed the United States' return to the multilateral table under President Joe Biden. Read more'A little bit': Pat Cummins admits Australian PM Scott Morrison's comments on their return from IPL 2021 were shockingAfter the Indian Premier League Governing Council (IPL GC) and Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) decided to postpone IPL 2021 season with immediate effect due to the Covid-19 crisis in India, a huge question mark remains on how the Australian contingent (players, coaches and support staff included) are going to return home. Read moreRakhi Sawant believes she and her family will not contract Covid-19: 'I have Jesus' holy blood in my body'As India continues to grapple with the second wave of Covid-19 cases and deaths related to the disease, Rakhi Sawant has claimed she cannot contract the virus. The Bigg Boss 14 contestant was spotted on a coffee run in Mumbai on Wednesday when she made the claim. Read moreIrish president’s pet dog steals the spotlight mid-interview with adorable demand for petsIn an aww-worthy incident, the limelight was stolen from the Irish President Michael D Higgins by his adorable dog Misneach during an interview. A clip shared on Twitter by journalist Sinead Crowley gives a glimpse of the oh-so-cute incident that has now left netizens gushing at the demanding pooch. Read more‘What you call aid, we describe as friendship’: S Jaishankar on Covid crisis||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-up-cm-inaugurates-drdo-s-1st-makeshift-hospital-in-lucknow-101620227648968.html
05-05-2021||India||Maharashtra records 920 Covid-19 deaths, 57,640 new infections||Maharashtra reported 57,640 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases and 920 deaths on Wednesday which took the total tally in the state to 4,880,542 while the death toll reached 72,662. The single-day death toll for the state was the second highest reported since April 28 when the state had witnessed 985 Covid-19 related fatalities. A total of 279,200 people were tested in the state in the past 24 hours and the total number of recoveries in the state stood at 4,164,098 as 57,006 people were discharged, the bulletin showed.On Tuesday, the state added 51,880 new Covid-19 infections and 891 deaths which were higher than Monday when the state recorded 48,621 new Covid-19 infections and 567 deaths.Maharashtra’s capital Mumbai reported 3,882 cases on Wednesday and 77 deaths which took the total number of cases in the city to 665,057 and the death toll to 13,511. On Tuesday, Mumbai recorded 2,554 Covid-19 cases and 62 deaths.The state of Maharashtra has been consistently reporting the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the country and is the worst affected state due to the second wave of pandemic. Owing to this, the state is currently in lockdown-like restrictions till May 15 which have been put in place to stem the spread of the viral infection. The curbs on movement of people and other activities were first imposed early this month and were to initially continue till May 1 but were further tightened on April 14 and then extended last week till May 15.India on Wednesday added 382,315 fresh Covid-19 cases and 3,780 related fatalities which pushed the nationwide infection tally to 20,665,148 and the death toll to 226,188, according to the Union health ministry's dashboard at 8am. As many as 338,439 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours with which the total number of recoveries stood at 16,951,731 and the recovery rate in the country currently stands at 81.91%. The number of active cases in the country currently stands at 3,487,229, comprising 17% of the total confirmed cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-records-920-covid-19-deaths-57-640-new-infections-101620225571342.html
05-05-2021||India||Covid-19 surge: EC defers bypolls to 3 Lok Sabha, 8 assembly seats||As India continues to battle a deadly second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, the Election Commission of India (ECI) on Wednesday deferred by-elections of parliamentary and assembly constituencies in various states and Union territories.“The commission has reviewed the matter today and has decided that due to outbreak of the second wave of Covid-19 in the country it would not be appropriate to hold by-elections till the pandemic situation significantly improves and conditions become conducive to hold these bye-elections,” a statement issued by the ECI read.Read more: EC was split over move to seek gag order on mediaThe bypolls have been deferred by the ECI in the parliamentary constituencies of Dadra & Nagar Haveli, Khandwa in Madhya Pradesh and Mandi in Himachal Pradesh. Other than these, bypolls have also been postponed in eight assembly constituencies in various states and Union territories, including Kalka and Ellenabad in Haryana, Vallabhnagar in Rajasthan, Sindgi in Karnataka, Rajabala and Mawryngkneng in Meghalaya, Fatehpur in Himachal Pradesh and Badvel in Andhra Pradesh.Read more: Election Commission moves Supreme Court against Madras HC remarksVacancies in seats, whether parliamentary or assembly, are required to be filled as per the provisions of section 151 A of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, which states that by-elections must be conducted within six months from the date the vacancy occurs, if the remaining term for the seat is one year or more than that.Read more: Returning officer has final say in recount of votes, EC says on Nandigram pollIndia has been registering a record high number of Covid-19 cases as it battles with a deadlier second wave which has overwhelmed the health infrastructure of the country. On Wednesday, the country added 382,315 fresh Covid-19 cases and 3,780 related fatalities which pushed the nationwide infection tally to 20,665,148 and the death toll to 226,188, according to the Union health ministry's dashboard at 8am.As many as 338,439 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours with which the total number of recoveries stood at 16,951,731 and the recovery rate in the country currently stands at 81.91%. The number of active cases in the country currently stands at 3,487,229, comprising 17% of the total confirmed cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-surge-ec-defers-bypolls-to-3-lok-sabha-8-assembly-seats-101620224768218.html
05-05-2021||India||Roche’s antibody cocktail for treating Covid-19 gets regulatory approval in India||Pharma giant Roche India on Wednesday announced that the Central Drugs Standards Control Organisation (CDSCO) has provided Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA) for Roche’s antibody cocktail in India for treatment of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).“With the increasing number of Covid-19 infections in India, Roche is committed to doing everything we can to minimise hospitalisations and ease pressure on healthcare systems. This is where neutralising antibody cocktails like casirivimab and imdevimab can play a role in the fight against Covid-19 and in the treatment of high risk patients before their condition worsens. This outpatient treatment for Covid-19 will be complementary to the ongoing vaccination drive and support our fight against the pandemic in India,” said V Simpson Emmanuel, managing director, Roche Pharma India. The approval for the antibody cocktail— Casirivimab and Imdevimab— was based on the data that has been filed for the EUA in the United States, and the scientific opinion of the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) in the European Union.Both Casirivimab and Imdevimab are human immunoglobulin G-1 (IgG1) monoclonal antibodies produced by recombinant DNA technology.Monoclonal antibodies are laboratory-made proteins that mimic the immune system’s ability to fight off harmful pathogens such as viruses. Casirivimab and imdevimab are monoclonal antibodies that are specifically directed against the spike protein of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, and designed to block the virus’ attachment and entry into human cells.“Thanks to its specific engineering of two neutralising antibodies which bind to different parts of the virus spike, the Casirivimab and imdevimab cocktail remains efficacious against widest spread variants and reduces the risk of losing its neutralisation potency against new emerging variants,” the company said in a statement.The antibody cocktail is to be administered for the treatment of mild to moderate Covid-19 cases in adults and pediatric patients (12 years of age or older, weighing at least 40 kg) who are confirmed to be infected with SARS-COV2, and who are at high risk of developing severe Covid-19 disease.It could significantly help these high-risk patients before their condition worsens. On March 23 2021, Roche announced that a large phase III global trial (n=4,567) in high-risk non-hospitalised Covid-19 patients (”outpatients”) met its primary endpoint, showing that Casirivimab and imdevimab significantly reduced the risk of hospitalisation or death by 70% compared to placebo. Casirivimab and imdevimab also significantly shortened the duration of symptoms by four days.Casirivimab and Imdevimab is approved at a combined dose of 1200 mg (600 mg of each drug) administered by intravenous infusion or subcutaneous route. It has to be stored at 2 °C to 8 °C. This Emergency Use Authorisation will now enable Roche to import the globally manufactured product batches to India and will be marketed as well as distributed in India through a strategic partnership with Cipla Limited.“We are deeply committed to exploring all possible treatment options and being at the forefront in our fight against Covid-19. This partnership with Roche is a significant step in enabling access to promising treatments in furtherance to our purpose of ‘Caring for Life,” said Umang Vohra, MD and Global CEO Cipla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/roches-antibody-cocktail-for-treating-covid-19-gets-regulatory-approval-in-india-101620221434887.html
05-05-2021||India||Sikkim records 221 new Covid-19 cases; caseload nearing 9,000||Sikkim reported 221 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours pushing the tally to 8,919, a health department bulletin said on Wednesday.The Covid-19 death toll rose to 155 as four more persons succumbed to the disease, the bulletin said.Of the 221 new Covid-19 cases, East Sikkim district registered 171 cases followed by 24 each in South and West Sikkim and 2 in North Sikkim.Also Read| Sikkim imposes night curfew, bans movement of people, vehicles amid Covid surgeThe Himalayan state now has 2,050 active Covid-19 cases, while 6,515 patients have recovered from the disease, it said.The bulletin said 199 patients have migrated to other states.Sikkim has so far tested 96,965 samples for Covid-19 including 801 samples in the last 24 hours, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sikkim-records-221-new-covid-19-cases-caseload-nearing-9000-101620220026832.html
05-05-2021||India||Sikkim imposes night curfew, bans movement of people, vehicles amid Covid surge||The Sikkim government on Wednesday decided to impose lockdown-like restrictions in a bid to curb the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases. The state government imposed a night curfew from 5pm to 6am which will start from May 6 to May 16. The government also prohibited inter-district movement of all persons and vehicles barring vehicles carrying essential goods and army vehicles.“Night curfew imposed from 5 pm to 9 am. All inter-district movement of persons and vehicles prohibited barring army, security personnel and vehicles carrying essentials. Vehicles carrying essential goods will be allowed between 5am to 8.30am,” the state government said.The government also said that all government vehicles as well as private vehicles, barring army vehicles and those carrying essentials, passing through check-posts at Rangpo, Melli, Reshi, Ramam, Hathichirey and NTPC (West Sikkim) will be stopped.Sikkim was among those states which was least affected by the Covid-19 pandemic during the first wave in 2020. The state on Saturday recorded its highest single-day spike of 259 fresh cases pushing its tally of Covid-19 cases to 8,211. Sikkim along with Bihar, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Tripura and West Bengal is showing an increasing trend in daily cases, the health ministry said on Monday.Several other states like Mizoram, Manipur, Tripura, Assam and Meghalaya have imposed some form of lockdown-like measures as the nation continues to reel from an infectious second wave. Though the north-eastern states have not yet recorded a high number of cases and deaths, these state governments’ have been implementing these measures in order to not increase the burden of the states’ healthcare infrastructure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sikkim-imposes-night-curfew-bans-movement-of-people-vehicles-amid-covid-surge-101620219126063.html
05-05-2021||India||Manipur: More restrictions in Greater Imphal to fight Covid-19||Manipur’s state disaster management authority has ordered additional restrictions in areas under Imphal municipal corporation and Greater Imphal to contain the spread of Covid-19. As per the new order, only one out of three shops or vendors in the area will be allowed to open on a rotational basis and if the shops are located in congested rows, then only alternate rows shall be allowed to open. The order also asks for adoption of a queue system by all shops and vendors.“There shall be a complete ban on movement of all vehicles (including during 6 am to 10 am) except goods vehicles, oxygen supply related vehicles, LPG and oil tankers and vehicles of other essential services like power supply, water supply, waste/garbage clearance, public distribution system, medical/Covid services and vehicles of personnel of departments/organisations permitted to be functional including the public distribution system,” the order said.It stated that the deputy commissioners (DC) and district superintendents of police (SPs) will prepare the roster of shops and vendors and any market/shop/vendor found violating the Covid-containment guidelines will be closed by the district authorities.Local markets at Khurai Lamlong, Andro Parking, Lambulane, Kongba (all in Imphal East district), Pishum thong, Kwakeithel, Nagamapal, Singjamei Bazaar, Wahengbam Leikai (in Imphal West district) shall remain closed, the order stated.The bank branches shall remain open from 1pm to 2.30 pm only for government transactions and those related to Covid-19 management apart from government projects and other urgent matters, it added.The order also clarifies that the Imphal airport shall remain open and movement of staff and passengers will be allowed. Petrol pumps and LPG outlets will continue to operate and movement of staff of Indian Oil Corporation Limited will be permitted.On April 29, the state authority had declared the whole of Greater Imphal as a containment zone with immediate effect for a period of seven days to curb the continued spiral of Covid-19 infections.On Tuesday, Manipur recorded 433 positive cases, the highest single day spike this year, taking the total infection tally to 32,956 besides increasing the number of active cases to 2,391.Two Covid-19 patients also died on Monday, taking the death toll to 424.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-more-restrictions-in-greater-imphal-to-fight-covid19-101620219874633.html
05-05-2021||India||Pinarayi Vijayan writes to PM Modi, asks for more oxygen, vaccines amid Covid-19 spike||With Covid-19 cases surging and hospitals overflowing with patients in Kerala, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday sent a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking additional liquid medical oxygen cylinders and vaccines.In terms of total cases of the viral infection, Kerala is at the third spot after Maharashtra and Karnataka. On Tuesday, the state had reported 37,190 new cases and 57 deaths. Though the fatality rate is low in the state (below 0.4) statistics show it is steadily climbing.In the letter to the Prime Minister, the CM the said medical oxygen storage in the state should be augmented urgently as there is an increased demand for the life-saving gas. “To augment storage we need 1000 tonnes of imported liquid medical oxygen. The Ministry of External Affairs may be advised to allot the required quantity partly from the current tranche of imports and balance from future imports,” he said.He also asked the PM to provide more oxygen concentrators, ventilators and other equipment on priority basis considering the high volume of cases. The state has so far vaccinated 74 lakh people, almost 20 per cent of its 3.25 crore population. The Union Health Ministry had recently lauded the state’s zero wastage of vaccine while in some states it is between 5 and 18 per cent. Vijayan has also requested the PM to send more vaccines-- about 50 lakh doses of Covishield and 25 lakh Covaxin doses. Currently, the state has a stock of 272.2 metric tonnes of liquid oxygen and 8.97 mt of medical oxygen. In the current scenario, Kerala needs 108 mt of oxygen daily, health ministry statistics show. What is really of concern for the state is that the number of patients who need oxygen is rising alarmingly. In some of the worst-affected districts like Kozhikode and Ernakulam, most government hospitals are filled to capacity. Kerala had managed the first wave of coronavirus infections well; however, the ground situation shows the second wave has put tremendous strain on its overworked and overstretched healthcare infrastructure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pinarayi-vijayan-writes-to-pm-modi-asks-for-more-oxygen-vaccines-amid-covid-19-spike-101620218794381.html
05-05-2021||India||‘We should prepare’: Centre warns third Covid-19 wave 'inevitable'||Even as India continues to battle a deadly second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, the Centre warned on Wednesday that a “third phase is inevitable.”“A phase three is inevitable, given the higher levels of circulating virus but it is not clear on what time scale this phase three will occur. We should prepare for new waves,” principal advisor to the government K Vijay Raghavan said at a press briefing hosted by the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW), according to news agency ANI.A phase three is inevitable, given the higher levels of circulating virus but it is not clear on what time scale this phase three will occur. We should prepare for new waves: K VijayRaghavan, Principal Scientific Advisor to Centre pic.twitter.com/c6lRzYaV2qIndia is currently in the grip of a second Covid-19 wave which is so intense that the country is seeing more daily infections than it did during the first wave that struck the country last year. The number of deaths per day in the second wave, too, is higher than the corresponding figures during the first wave. Since April 22, India has recorded more than 300,000 cases every day, the highest by any country since the beginning of the pandemic, while the number of daily fatalities has been more than 3,000 for a number of days. India is also the only country to have logged more than 400,000 cases in a single day -- registering 401,993 infections on May 1 -- as per the health ministry’s dashboard.In contrast, India’s highest single-day tally in a day in the first wave was 97,894 on September 17 last year.Also Read | India has administered over 160mn Covid vaccine doses till nowSpeaking on the new variants of Covid-19, Raghavan said these get transmitted exactly the same way as the original strain. He added that the new strain of the virus infects people in a manner which makes them more transmissible. “Vaccines are effective against the current variants. New variants will arise all over the world and in India too but variants that increase transmission will likely plateau,” he remarked.Vaccines are effective against current variants. New variants will arise all over the world & in India too but variants that increase transmission will likely plateau. Immune evasive variants & those which lower or increase disease severity will arise going ahead: K VijayRaghavan pic.twitter.com/p11iHrrIL3According to the health ministry’s dashboard on Wednesday morning, India’s infection tally rose by 382,315 new cases, and is currently at 20,665,148. This includes a death toll of 226,188 with the addition of 3,780 fatalities. Thus far, 16,951,731 people have defeated the viral disease while 3,487,229 are still battling it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-should-prepare-centre-warns-third-covid-19-wave-inevitable-101620213657774.html
05-05-2021||India||India has administered over 160mn Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered over 160 million coronavirus vaccine doses by Tuesday. By the end of day 3 of phase 3 of the nationwide vaccination drive, 662,619 beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group had been vaccinated. In all, as many as 130,003,225 doses have been given as the first dose and 30,414,880 vaccine doses have been administered as the second dose, adding up to 160,418,105 by Tuesday, 8pm. This includes 9,461,633 healthcare workers who have had their first dose and 6,320,945 who have got their second dose as well. As many 13,559,294 frontline workers have had their first dose while 7,321,052 have got their second dose too.Also Read | 11-day lockdown underway in Covid-rattled Bihar, authorities face difficultyIn the 45-59-year age group, 53,376,589 people have got their first dose and another 4,399,995 have had their second dose as well. In the 60+ category, 52,943,090 people have been administered their first dose while 12,372,888 have had their second dose as well.As many as 1,648,192 vaccine doses were given by Sunday morning. Of this, 989,700 beneficiaries were vaccinated with the first dose and 658,492 beneficiaries received their second dose as well.During the day, 1,149,009 vaccine doses were given till 8pm. Of these, 615,220 beneficiaries were vaccinated for the first dose and 533,789 beneficiaries received the second dose of vaccine as per the provisional report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-over-160mn-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101620216574110.html
05-05-2021||India||Covid-19: Himachal Pradesh announces 10-day lockdown from May 7||The Himachal Pradesh government on Wednesday decided to impose a lockdown in the state from May 7 to May 16 to check the spread of Covid-19, an official said here.The decision to impose the "corona curfew" in the state was taken at a Cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, the spokesperson added.While government and private offices and establishments will remain closed during the lockdown period, essential services such as those related to health, electricity, telecommunication, water supply and sanitation will be exempted, the official said.The cabinet decided that work would continue at civil work sites and horticultural, agricultural and other projects, while educational institutions would remain closed till May 31, he said.Government and private transport vehicles will be allowed to ply with 50 per cent occupancy, and inter-state transportation will continue, the official added.Industrial establishments will work as per guidelines issued by the state government, he said.The cabinet also decided to cancel the Class 10 board exams of the Himachal Pradesh Board of School Education. All students will be promoted to Class 11 as per norms suggested by the CBSE for its students of the same class, the official said.The board exams of Class 12 and the annual examinations of colleges will remain suspended until further orders, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-himachal-pradesh-announces-10-day-lockdown-from-may-7-101620215121782.html
05-05-2021||India||Indian company in UAE halts making CNG cylinders to make oxygen containers for India: Report||An Indian company’s subsidiary in the UAE has put on hold producing CNG cylinders and started manufacturing oxygen containers for India which is battling an unprecedented second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.Pushkar Khurana, managing director of the UAE-based free zone company EKC International FZE, said that the task at hand is a duty towards his nation, the Gulf News reported.In March and April, the company -- a subsidiary of Everest Kanto Cylinder Limited in India -- shipped about 6,000 oxygen cylinders and in May the number is likely to go up to 7,000.“We are an Indian subsidiary and as soon as we came to know about the oxygen cylinder shortage in India, we had to rise to the call of our nation and serve the needs of our country,” he said.Khurana said that since March, they have been exporting these cylinders in multiple containers to Port Mundra in Gujarat.“We make the cylinders which are then filled with medical oxygen by Gulf-based industrial gas companies such as Emirates Industrial Gases Company (EIGC) and Gulf Cryo, and these are shipped to Port Mundra. Each container that is shipped contains about 350 cylinders of 50 litre capacity.“We look at this as a critical or emergency duty and will continue to produce oxygen cylinders for as long as India needs them. The Adani Group from Gujarat reached out to us and we immediately adapted the production to manufacturing oxygen cylinders which have a slightly different specification than CNG cylinders,” Khurana said.India is struggling with an unprecedented second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic with more than 3,00,000 daily new coronavirus cases being reported for over a week.Hospitals in several states are reeling under a shortage of medical oxygen and beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-company-in-uae-halts-making-cng-cylinders-to-make-oxygen-containers-for-india-report-101620212266419.html
05-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Kerala CM Vijayan writes to PM Modi amid Covid surge, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Kerala CM Vijayan writes to PM Modi seeking oxygen, vaccines and ventilators amid Covid surgeKerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to provide liquid medical oxygen, vaccines, ventilators and other essential items as the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in Kerala have been witnessing a steady rise during the second wave of the pandemic. Read moreMHA asks states, UTs to ensure there are no fires in hospitalsThe ministry of home affairs has asked all the states and Union Territories to ensure that no fire incident occurs in any of the health facilities (particularly Covid-19 dedicated facilities) both in the government and private sector. Read moreMaratha quota: Maharashtra to approach Centre; BJP blames MVA for SC verdictHours after the quashed the 2018 law framed by the Maharashtra government to give reservation to the Maratha community, the state government announced it will send a proposal to the Centre, seeking quota, even as the Bharatiya Janata Party blamed it for the apex court verdict. Read more'If they don't make money for a year, what trouble will they get into': Shoaib Akhtar stands by decision to suspend IPLFormer Pakistan pacer Shoaib Akhtar is in agreement with the BCCI's decision to suspend IPL 2021 indefinitely, believing it's not the right time to stage the tournament given what is happening in India in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Read moreMandira Bedi nails headstand in new fitness video, says it gives her shanti during these trying timesIt is a known fact that working out releases endorphins which makes you feel happy and calm. In these trying times, while India is battling the second wave of coronavirus, social media is full of celebrities and public figures trying to help the country and lift their spirits. Read moreKavita Kaushik takes a dig at Kangana Ranaut's 'white people' entitlement remark: 'Which era is being referred to?'Television actor Kavita Kaushik has taken a jibe at actor Kangana Ranaut over her statement that 'a white person feels entitled to enslave a brown person', after her Twitter account was permanently suspended. Read moreMahindra's 'Oxygen on Wheels' to roll out in Delhi soon, says Anand MahindraMahindra will soon roll out its Covid-19 initiative 'Oxygen on Wheels' in the national capital too. Mahindra Group chairman Anand Mahindra has confirmed that the company is scaling up operations in Delhi where crisis of oxygen has been a challenge in the fight against the virus. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-kerala-cm-vijayan-writes-to-pm-modi-amid-covid-surge-and-all-the-latest-news-101620212095217.html
05-05-2021||India||Three more Rafale fighter jets take off from France for IAF airbase||Three more Rafale omnirole fighters are on their way to India from Merignac-Bordeaux airbase in France and are scheduled to land in Jamnagar airbase later on Wednesday evening. The three fighters will then fly to Ambala before they are repurposed to Hashimara airbase in north Bengal later.The aircraft will be refueled en-route by India's strategic ally United Arab Emirates using Airbus 330 multi-role transport tankers over middleeast skies.Next batch of three #Rafales leave from France to India today; wished the pilots smooth flight and safe landing. pic.twitter.com/z7UR4sXSBWALSO READ: IAF set to lease A330 mid-air refueller from France for trainingWith three more fighters joining the Indian Air Force (IAF), the total numbers of Rafale fighter jets in Ambala will reach 20 with another four expected to join within a fortnight from France. The process of induction of Rafale jets has become tedious during the coronavirus pandemic with the IAF pilots having to undergo complete quarantine in France before being cleared to fly back to India. The IAF is currently using seven Rafales to train the pilots in France.While the Golden Arrows squadron in Ambala has 18 fighters with state of the art weapons and missiles, the remaining planes, perhaps six, will form the second squadron in Hashimara airbase. Sitting on the mouth of Silliguri corridor, Hashimara airbase will add teeth to the entire eastern sector against the Chinese Air Force. The airbase is currently being overhauled to become the second home of Rafale fighters.ALSO READ: Rafale weaponry prompts China, Pak to alter defence postureWhile French manufacturer Dassault will deliver all the 36 Rafales by latter half of the year, the IAF is in a state of preparedness as the disengagement and de-escalation plan with the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in eastern Ladakh is still not complete as the Chinese army is not willing to restore status quo ante in Gogra-Hot Springs sector along the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh.This is a matter of serious military concern as the Indian Army continues to remain deployed in the area and is monitoring Chinese Army movements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-more-rafale-fighter-jets-take-off-from-france-for-iaf-airbase-101620204182322.html
05-05-2021||India||NHRC asks Centre, states to maintain Covid-19 dashboards||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has asked the Centre and state governments to maintain universally functional Covid-19 dashboards displaying real time availability of isolation beds, oxygenated beds, ICU beds and ventilator support beds so that every person can get the treatment as a basic human right. In a detailed advisory sent on Tuesday evening amid the devastating second wave, the NHRC has also said that there should be universal coverage and non-discriminatory pricing of Covid vaccines in all health facilities in the country, and if feasible, “vaccination should be made free for everyone” irrespective of private or public health establishment. The apex human rights body has stated the vaccination should reach the people who are most vulnerable and at the most risk like destitute, homeless, prisoners, migrant workers, beggars, etc; and the arrangements for people not in possession of Aadhar cards or other documents must be made. It has said the government should plan its Covid-19 response in a way that the country is prepared for another wave in the future. “Planning must be done for increasing the number of beds, especially ICU beds, and strict measures must be adopted throughout the year to maintain adequate stocks of resources, including RT-PCR testing requirements, essential medicines, vaccines, oxygen, ICU equipment etc., in all the clinical establishments,” according to the advisory, seen by HT. Also Read | Kerala CM Vijayan writes to PM Modi seeking oxygen, vaccines, ventilatorsThe Commission has acted on ground reports related to human rights violation, particularly people being denied basic right to access healthcare. Asserting that India is now facing a public health emergency of unprecedented proportion, the NHRC said the acute shortage of critical care beds, oxygen supplies, essential medicines, emergency transport and other facilities is resulting in high mortality and putting a huge burden on the hospitals and healthcare professionals, beyond their capacity so much so that the healthcare infrastructure of the country appears to be on the verge of a breakdown. Apart from asking states and Centre to ensure seamless supply of oxygen, NHRC has said every Covid-19 patient, whether his report is positive or not, must get treatment free of cost in public health facility. If there are no beds in private hospitals, it is the obligation of health department (of respective states) to provide care to the patient. It said, “no patient or family should be left to cater on their own”. For private hospitals charging exorbitant amounts from patients, the NHRC has said the government should deploy officials to audit adherence of private hospitals for ensuring regulation of rates for Covid patients. “Bills of higher amount, say more than [Rs] 1.5 lakh, may be randomly checked/audited, and all hospitals must provide a detailed itemised bill to the patients or their caregivers,” NHRC advisory says. It has also asked the government to cap the prices of Covid-19 treatment resources such as essential medicines, oxygen cylinders, ambulance services, etc., so that patients/families are not exploited. “A Grievance Redressal Mechanism must be established by the Centre and state governments in this regard,” it said. Similarly, it has asked for action on hoarders/black-marketers, adding that people complaining against such acts should not be harassed by the administration. The human rights body has asked authorities to improve the management of crematoriums and burial grounds to reduce waiting time for cremations/burials by adding more such facilities. Use of electric crematoriums should be promoted by the stakeholders. It has recommended building an App for cremations and burials. Significantly, NHRC has said that exact reporting of Covid cases or related deaths should be encouraged to portray the correct picture and magnitude of the problem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nhrc-asks-centre-states-to-maintain-covid-19-dashboards-101620212373682.html
05-05-2021||India||Kerala CM Vijayan writes to PM Modi seeking oxygen, vaccines and ventilators amid Covid surge||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to provide liquid medical oxygen, vaccines, ventilators and other essential items as the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in Kerala have been witnessing a steady rise during the second wave of the pandemic.In his letter to PM Modi, Vijayan said the overall requirement of liquid medical oxygen is increasing in Kerala and the state’s buffer storage needs to be augmented urgently, keeping in view the depletion of storage due to the heavy demand of the lifesaving gas on a daily basis.“In order to augment the storage, we (Kerala) require at least 100 tonnes of imported LMO. I request that the ministry of external affairs may be advised to allot the required quantity partly from the current tranche of imports and balance from future imports. Allotment of 500 metric tonnes (MT) of LMO from the nearest steel plant to Kerala may also be advised” Vijayan wrote in the letter.Also Read| 'Good to see': PM Modi retweets Pinarayi Vijayan on reducing vaccine wastagePointing out that Kerala has one of the highest numbers of active cases of the Covid-19 disease across India, he also requested PM Modi for the urgent allotment of ventilators, pressure swing adsorption (PSA) plants, oxygen concentrators and tankers.The state is also facing an acute shortage of vaccine doses and the chief minister requested that at least five million doses of Covishield and 2.5 million doses of Covaxin be given.The Centre should take into account the number of beneficiaries awaiting the second dose as well as those registered for the first dose while determining further allotment of doses to other states, Vijayan wrote in the letter.Also Read| Strict curbs in Kerala from Tuesday: What’s allowed, what’s notOver 7.57 million beneficiaries have been administered vaccine doses in Kerala so far of which 6,105,329 have received the first dose while 1,466,846 have received both doses. Earlier on Wednesday, PM Modi had praised the state government’s efforts in reducing vaccine wastage.Kerala on Tuesday added 37,190 new Covid-19 disease cases and 57 more deaths, taking the caseload and death toll to 1,701,979 and 5,507 respectively. The active cases in the state are at 356,872 and recoveries are nearing 1.34 million. Chief minister Vijayan said on Tuesday the daily cases in Kerala are likely to go up further and the virus is yet to peak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-kerala-cm-vijayan-writes-to-pm-modi-seeking-oxygen-vaccines-ventilators-101620211802945.html
05-05-2021||India||DRDO sets up oxygen plant in Aiims, 500 others to be installed across country||The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has set up two oxygen plants in All India Institute of Medical Science Trauma Centre and Ram Manohar Lohia hospital in New Delhi as part of the plan to install five medical oxygen plants in Delhi and Haryana. The plants will start supplying oxygen to these facilities by Wednesday evening, the health ministry said. Around 500 such plants funded by the PM-Cares fund will be set up all across the country, the additional director, directorate of public interface said on Wednesday.The oxygen plant has a flow rate of 1,000 litres per minute and can cater to 190 patients at a time, the additional director, directorate of public interface, DRDO said on Wednesday, reported ANI.Also read: DRDO to set up 500 oxygen plants under PM-CARES fund in 3 months"This plant has a capacity of 1,000 litres of oxygen per minute and at a time it will cater to 190 patients. It is being set up in five hospitals in Delhi-NCR," ANI quoted the additional director as saying.As the country battles the destructive second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) with an acute scarcity of medical oxygen, the additional director ensured to complete the installation of plants in the next two-to-three days."In 2-3 days we'll complete the installation of plants in Aiims (Jhajjar), RML, Safdarjung and Lady Hardinge Hospital. These plants are funded by PM-Cares fund & we'll set up 500 such plants across the country," ANI quoted the additional director as saying.The ministry of defence on Tuesday said that the medical oxygen plant technology based on the on-board oxygen generation for light combat aircraft Tejas has been developed by the DRDO and will help overcome logistical issues of oxygen transportation for Covid-19 emergency.As part of sustained efforts to combat Covid-19, the DRDO had earlier transported oxygen cylinders to Delhi and Hyderabad to boost the supply of life-saving gas. Each of those cylinders had the capacity to store 1,000 litres of oxygen. The organisation last month in collaboration with the Gujarat government also set up a 900-bed Covid-19 hospital in Ahmedabad.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19Last month, Aiims through a notice informed about the paucity of resources and staff that led the hospital to discontinue contact tracing of healthcare workers and quarantine of asymptomatic contacts. The hospital said that the healthcare workers with symptoms should only be tested.The country on Wednesday found over 386,000 people infected with the fatal virus, according to the Union health ministry's dashboard. Meanwhile, the World Health Organisation (WHO) in its Epidemiology report said that the country accounted for over 46 per cent of new cases and a quarter of deaths in the past week, reported Reuters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drdo-to-set-up-oxygen-plant-in-aiims-500-others-to-be-installed-across-country-101620206940631.html
05-05-2021||India||G7 meet: 2 Indian delegation members test positive for Covid-19 in London||The Indian delegation led by external affairs minister S Jaishankar to the G7 foreign ministers’ meeting in London was self-isolating on Wednesday after two members tested positive for Covid-19.Jaishankar tweeted that he had become aware of “exposure to possible Covid positive cases” and would conduct all his engagements in London virtually, including participation in the G7 foreign ministers meet on Wednesday.Public Health England, which deals with issues such as infectious diseases, asked the entire Indian delegation to self-isolate, according to BBC. A British official confirmed two positive tests among the Indian delegation. British rules require a 10-day self-isolation period.“Was made aware yesterday evening of exposure to possible Covid positive cases. As a measure of abundant caution and also out of consideration for others, I decided to conduct my engagements in the virtual mode. That will be the case with the G7 Meeting today as well,” said a tweet by Jaishankar, who is on his first foreign trip after India was hit by a devastating second wave of infections.Also Watch | ‘What you call aid, we describe as friendship’: S Jaishankar on Covid crisisThe reports of the Indian delegation members testing positive immediately triggered Covid-19 scare at the G7 meeting. There were also questions as to whether members of other delegations had been exposed in any manner.India is not a member of the G7 and was invited to the meeting as a guest along with Australia, South Korea, South Africa and the chair of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations.British authorities had put in place strict Covid-secure measures for the meeting, which was billed by the UK as a chance to restart in-person diplomacy. There are daily Covid-19 tests throughout the meeting, including self-test kits and an on-site testing facility, strict guidelines on social distancing, and the size of delegations were limited. The delegates are separated by perspex screens during talks.Those at the top of the external affairs ministry have all been vaccinated and undergo regular tests for Covid-19 every week. However, there have been several cases of Coronavirus infections among junior and middle-ranking officials of the ministry in New Delhi in recent weeks.The G7 foreign ministers meeting is a precursor to the main summit to be held at the rural English resort of Cornwall in June. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been invited to the summit as a guest by his UK counterpart Boris Johnson.The Indian delegation had not attended any event at the main venue at Lancaster House, and meetings scheduled for Wednesday went ahead as planned. British foreign minister Dominic Raab greeted and fist-bumped other G7 members as they arrived at the venue.“We deeply regret that Jaishankar will be unable to attend the meeting today in person,” a senior UK diplomat was quoted as saying by Reuters. “This is exactly why we have put in place strict Covid protocols and daily testing.”Jaishankar met British interior minister Priti Patel on Tuesday and they signed the Migration and Mobility Partnership Agreement to facilitate legal travel. Patel didn’t have to self-isolate because the meeting was held in line with existing rules, and both ministers were wearing masks.Jaishankar held bilateral meetings in London with US secretary of state Antony Blinken, South African foreign minister Naledi Pandor and European Union foreign policy chief Josep Borrell and a trilateral meeting with Australian foreign minister Marise Payne and French foreign minister Jean-Yves Le Drian.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-indian-delegation-members-at-g7-meeting-in-london-test-positive-for-covid19-101620211349480.html
05-05-2021||India||Meghalaya announces free COVID vaccination for all above 18||Meghalaya chief minister Conrad K Sangma on Wednesday announced free Covid vaccination for everyone above the age of 18.The decision was taken at a meeting chaired by the chief minister on Tuesday, officials said.Deputy chief minister Prestone Tynsong said that the state government has already paid a vaccine-maker ₹1.26 crore for around 42,000 doses."The government purchased the vaccines at a cost of ₹300 per dose and the vaccination is for citizens of the age group 18 to 45," he said.The vaccines will be arriving in the state within the next few days and 20,000 people in the age group 18-45 will be getting it in the first phase, he added.He assured that the state has enough stock of vaccines for frontline workers and citizens above the age of 45.Till Tuesday, 25,595 healthcare workers received the first dose of the Covishield vaccine and of them, 18,596 received the second dose.Another 46,441 frontline workers also got the first shot of the vaccine, while 24,885 of them got the second dose.Around 1.74 lakh people over the age of 45 have been vaccinated with the first dose so far, and 18,764 of them were inoculated with the second dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meghalaya-announces-free-covid-vaccination-for-all-above-18-101620207096178.html
05-05-2021||India||Over 160 million Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in India||The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 16 crore, with India reaching the mark in 109 days, the Union Health Ministry said.In comparison, the US took 111 days while China took 116 days to achieve a similar mark, it said.The ministry said 6,71,285 beneficiaries in the age group of 18-44 years have received their first dose of Covid vaccine across 12 states and UTs. These are Chhattisgarh (1,026), Delhi (82,000), Gujarat (1,61,625), Jammu and Kashmir (10,885), Haryana (99,680), Karnataka (3,840), Maharashtra (1,11,621), Odisha (13,768), Punjab (908), Rajasthan (1,30,071), Tamil Nadu (4,577) and UP (51,284).Cumulatively, 16,04,94,188 vaccine doses have been administered through 23,66,349 sessions, according to the provisional report till 7 am.These include 94,62,505 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have taken the first dose and 63,22,055 HCWs who have taken the second dose, 1,35,65,728 FLWs who have received the first dose), 73,32,999 FLWs who have taken the second dose and 6,71,285 beneficiaries in the age group of 18-45 age group who have received the first dose.Besides, 5,29,50,584 and 1,23,85,466  beneficiaries more than 60 years old have been administered the first and second dose respectively, while 5,33,94,353  and 44,09,213 beneficiaries aged 45 to 60 years have taken the first and second dose.Ten states account for 66.86 per cent of the cumulative doses given so far in the country.More than 14 lakh vaccination doses were administered in a span of 24 hours.As on Day-109 of the vaccination drive (May 4), 14,84,989 vaccine doses were given. Across 14,011 sessions, 7,80,066 beneficiaries were vaccinated for the first dose and 7,04,923 beneficiaries received their second dose of vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-160-million-covid-19-vaccine-doses-administered-in-india-101620206896053.html
05-05-2021||India||'Need anti-panic videos': Srikakuluam MP gets 'strange' plea on Covid helpline||Senior Telugu Desam leader and Srikakulam MP Ram Mohan Naidu has received a strange request on the Covid helpline number he has recently started. Not oxygen, not Remdesiviror not any medicine, a person named Madhusudhan has WhatsApped the MP some "anti-panic" videos for his family members. The help-seeker has also clarified that the family members do not have covid symptoms; they are just afraid. "I want some emotionally strong videos," the person wrote to the MP, as suggested by the screenshot shared by Ram Mohan Naidu.This request I received on my #CovidHelpSrikakulam helpline is next-level. Not worried about covid, but rather the fear of covid! 😅 But I want to indulge him. Dear Internet: suggest us some videos to give us all some much-needed positivity & motivation. pic.twitter.com/nfmX2ffjIW"This request I received on my #CovidHelpSrikakulam helpline is next-level. Not worried about Covid, but rather the fear of Covid! But I want to indulge him. Dear Internet: suggest us some videos to give us all some much-needed positivity & motivation," the MP wrote addressing his Twitter family.In reply, people sent him links of inspiring videos, those of hospital staffs, nurses etc.Andhra Pradesh has been witnessing a higher number of daily Covid-19 infections in the last few days, and the number of tests has also been increased. On Tuesday, Andhra Pradesh reported 20,034 fresh Covid-19 cases. With 2,398, Srikakulam's tally was the highest in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-anti-panic-videos-srikakuluam-mp-gets-strange-plea-on-covid-helpline-101620206672977.html
05-05-2021||India||MHA asks states, UTs to ensure there are no fires in hospitals||The ministry of home affairs has asked all the states and Union Territories to ensure that no fire incident occurs in any of the health facilities (particularly Covid-19 dedicated facilities) both in the government and private sector. The ministry has taken cognizance of occurrence of fire incidents, caused by short-circuiting, in hospitals and nursing homes in the last few days. In his letter to the states/UTs, Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla said that in the context of recent fire incidents and the impending summer season, either because of high temperature, lack of maintenance or high load on the internal wirings within the facilities, short circuiting takes place, leading to fire incidents and consequential loss of life and essential infrastructure. The communication added that care should be taken to put in place a plan of action to ensure that no fire incident occurs in these facilities. A fire was reported from a hospital in Vikaspuri on Tuesday in which 26 Covid-19 patients were rescued. Another fire was reported from Virar, Mumbai, on April 23 at Vijay Vallabh hospital in which 15 patients died. On April 25, three patients died in a Surat hospital fire. The MHA has asked the states/UTs to conduct a detailed review with officials from the health, power and fire departments, and prepare a detailed plan of action to ensure that fire safety measures are in place in all hospitals and health facilities. Also Read | MHA seeks report on post-poll violence in BengalBhalla also pointed out to the recently issued advisory of the Director General (Fire Services, Civil Defence and Home Guards) on fire safety in hospitals and nursing homes. The communication highlighted that a large number of Covid-19 cases are under treatment in Covid-dedicated health facilities across the country. “In most of the cases, oxygen supported beds, ICU beds, and ventilators are critical interventions, and therefore, it is important to ensure that there is uninterrupted power supply on regular 24x7 basis, in all the hospitals and medical facilities,” said Press Information Bureau in a statement. It added – “…saving every life is a priority, and it is critical to ensure that required support is provided to all health facilities managing Covid-19 by taking requisite actions in advance to avert any incident, which could hamper effective health care delivery to patients.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-asks-states-uts-to-ensure-there-are-no-fires-in-hospitals-101620206782814.html
05-05-2021||India||Modify vaccination plan, HC to C’garh on order linking jabs to financial status||The Chhattisgarh high court has asked the state government to modify its vaccination rollout plan for the 18-44 age group that linked the Covid-19 jabs to the financial status of the beneficiaries, ruling that the government’s April 30 order that decided the state would first administer the vaccines to the “antyodaya group” (poorest of the poor) and then people from the “Below poverty line” wasn’t correct or sustainable.“Prima facie, sub-classification with reference to the ‘financial status’ alone as now ordered is not correct or sustainable,” the two-judge bench of the high court said, suggesting that the government consider quotas to ensure that no section is deprived at any point.“We are of the view that the State Government shall fix a reasonable ratio of allotment of vaccines to the ‘Antyodaya Group’, the persons belonging to the ‘Below Poverty Line’ and the persons belonging to the ‘Above Poverty Line’, with reference to all the relevant aspects including the vulnerability, chance to spread the disease and the number of eligible persons in the group,” the bench of Chief Justice PR Ramachandra Menon and Justice Parth Prateem Sahu said in its order on Wednesday.Janata Congress ( Jogi) chief, Amit Jogi and two others had petitioned the high court against the state government order, arguing that the sub-classification on the basis of a person’s financial status is beyond the constitutional mandate and violation of the law of equality and the equal opportunity before the law and discriminates against citizens with reference to their right to life.Jogi said since the vaccination was the only life-saving measure against Covid-19, its denial to some groups and fixing a priority with reference to the ‘financial status’ is absolutely illegal, illogical and violative of the constitutional provisions and the central government’s vaccination policy.Chhattisgarh advocate general Satish Chandra Verma tried to defend the state’s decision, pointing that since only a limited quantity of vaccines was available for the third phase of vaccination, a sub-classification was felt necessary.The high court, however, did not agree with Jogi’s contention that the government should go by the first-come-first-served principle. This, the judges said, wouldn’t be appropriate for the poor and people living in rural areas. “There are several reasons behind this, such as lack of education, poverty, lack of any smartphones to affect registration in portals, the remoteness of the area where they are living, the lack of access and conveyance, the limited infrastructure available in the place of their living and also the internet connectivity.”The bench said the poor, who may not be able to book their slots online, would be placed at a disadvantage since they would have to go to the nearest centres to make their booking. “But by the time they reach there, the portal may be closed or the bookings/registration may be stopped having obtained saturation, virtually making it detrimental to the right and interest of the children of the lesser God. This being the position, if any steps are taken by the State Government to have the benefit extended to such people as well, the object cannot be doubted.”The court has asked the state government to formulate a scheme for the poor and set up ‘help desks’ providing spot registration and administering vaccines to them, without compromising the right of the other segments who are entitled to have equal treatment with regard to the right to life. The court directed the state government to discuss its suggestion by secretary-level officers and fix the ratio to administer the vaccines in the third phase of vaccination (for the age group of above 18 and below 45 years) in an equitable manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-blocks-chhattisgarh-govt-s-vaccine-order-that-linked-jabs-to-financial-status-101620206067170.html
05-05-2021||India||Puducherry's Covid-19 caseload climbs to 65,117; 1,819 fresh cases added||Puducherry posted 1,819 fresh cases of coronavirus, the highest ever on a single day, raising the aggregate to 65,117.The new cases were identified at the end of examination of 6893 samples in all the four regions of Puducherry, Karaikal, Mahe and Yanam projecting test positivity at 26.38 percent.The cases were spread over Puducherry 1435, Karaikal 182, Yanam 180 and Mahe 22, the Director of Health and Family Welfare services S Mohan Kumar said.As many as 18 patients succumbed to the viral infection during the last 24 hours taking the total number of deaths to 88.The deceased were in the age group of 38 years and 85 years.The Director said 933 patients were discharged during last 24 hours after recovery from hospitals.The fatality and recovery rates were 1.36 percent and 80.65 percent respectively.He said as many as 8.25 lakh samples have been tested so far and 7.52 lakh out of them turned out to be negative.The cumulative number of virus cases were 65,117.Active cases were 11,717 while total recoveries were 52,517.On the vaccination front, the Director said 32,541 health care workers and 10,106 front line workers were vaccinated so far.As many as 1,54,462 people coming under the category of senior citizens (sixty years and above) or those above 45 years with comorbidities have been vaccinated since March 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/puducherrys-covid-19-caseload-climbs-to-65-117-1-819-fresh-cases-added-101620204822622.html
05-05-2021||India||Covid-19 forecasters warn India deaths may double in coming weeks||The coronavirus wave that plunged India into the world’s biggest health crisis has the potential to worsen in the coming weeks, with some research models projecting that the death toll could more than double from current levels.A team at the Indian Institute of Science in Bangalore used a mathematical model to predict about 404,000 deaths will occur by June 11 if current trends continue. A model from the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation at the University of Washington forecast 1,018,879 deaths by the end of July.While coronavirus cases can be hard to predict, particularly in a sprawling nation like India, the forecasts reflect the urgent need for India to step up public health measures like testing and social distancing. Even if the worst estimates are avoided, India could suffer the world’s biggest Covid-19 death toll. The U.S currently has the largest number of fatalities at around 578,000.India reported a record 3,780 deaths on Wednesday for an overall toll of 226,188, along with 382,315 new cases, taking its outbreak past 20.6 million infections. In recent weeks, the scenes on the ground, with long lines outside crematoriums and hospitals turning away ambulances, have painted a picture of a nation overwhelmed by the crisis.“The next four to six weeks are going to be very, very difficult for India,” said Ashish Jha, the dean of Brown University School of Public Health. “The challenge is going to be to do things now that will make sure it is four weeks, not six or eight, and that we minimize how bad things will get. But in no way is India anywhere near out of the woods.”A spokesperson for the health ministry couldn’t immediately be reached. The ministry said on Monday that in about a dozen states, including Delhi, Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra, there are early signs that the number of daily new infections are starting to plateau.The Indian rupee has declined about 1% this quarter in Asia’s worst performance as investors turned cautious ahead of an unscheduled speech by India’s central bank governor Wednesday. The benchmark S&P BSE Sensex Index is down about 2% as foreign funds sold about $1.7 billion of the nation’s stocks.Economic ImpactA prolonged crisis has the potential to dent the popularity of Prime Minister Narendra Modi as well as slow or reverse India’s recovery from last year’s economic recession. Bloomberg Economics lowered its growth projection for the year ending March 2022 to 10.7% from 12.6%, and even these numbers are flattered by a low base as activity ground to a halt due to a strict lockdown last year.India’s central bank, meanwhile, has announced new loan-relief measures for small businesses and promised to inject 500 billion rupees ($6.8 billion) of liquidity to support the economy.For public health researchers, a key concern is the relative dearth of coronavirus testing, which many scientists believe is causing a sharp undercounting of cases.“It could honestly get a lot worse, which is hard to imagine given how staggering the impacts have already been when you see 400,000 new cases each day and you know that that’s probably an underestimation,” said Jennifer Nuzzo, a senior scholar at the Johns Hopkins Center for Health Security in Baltimore, Maryland.The main metric that officials are watching is the test positivity rate, which is the percentage of people with positive test results. The overall positivity rate is 20% in India now, and in some parts of the country it tops 40%, a shockingly high number that indicates as many as three-fourths of infections are being missed, said Jha.The World Health Organization considers anything above 5% too high, saying that governments should implement social distancing measures until positivity rates are below that level for at least two weeks.“Despite scaling up testing considerably, it’s still not enough to capture all the infected people,” said Soumya Swaminathan, chief scientist at the World Health Organization, speaking on Bloomberg TV. “So the numbers, while very high, are likely an underestimate of the true numbers of infections,” she said. “It’s a grim situation.”Social DistancingThe goal is to run enough tests that a large number of infected people aren’t going undiagnosed. If only the sickest patients are tested, many people with milder disease or no symptoms at all may continue to unwittingly spread the disease.“There are reports of tests being considerably delayed and of patients delaying having to go to hospital as much as they can, given the stresses on the health system,” said Gautam Menon, a professor of physics and biology at Ashoka University, who also works on modeling outbreaks. “We don’t know enough about Covid-19 spread away from the major cities, in the rural heartland of India, although reports from there suggest that the situation is dire.”The U.S. government, as part of a package of supplies for India, pledged last week to send one million rapid tests to India. There are several other things that could be done quickly to try to help staunch the outbreak. High on the list is wearing masks, a crucial element for disease control, said Catherine Blish, an infectious disease specialist and global health expert at Stanford Medicine in California.Major cities in India already require people to wear masks, but such rules can be harder to implement in crowded slums and rural areas. Several states have introduced lockdowns, although Modi has resisted a national effort after one imposed by him last year fueled a humanitarian crisis with migrant workers fleeing the cities on foot and in some cases bringing the virus with them.LockdownsThe Indian Institute of Science has estimated that with a 15-day lockdown deaths could be lower at 300,000, falling to 285,000 with a 30-day lockdown. IMHE estimates a lower death toll of around 940,000 by the end of July with universal mask wearing.Vaccines will be the big way to remove risks, although it will take time to get there, public health experts say.It takes several weeks for immunity to build after someone has been vaccinated. The process is even longer with those that require two shots, stretching the process out to six weeks to two months.“The vaccines are working,” said Kim Mulholland, an Australian pediatrician and leader of the infection and immunity group at the Murdoch Children’s Research Institute in Melbourne. “They just haven’t got the capacity.”Ultimately, cases will come down, it’s just a matter of when, said Michael Osterholm, director of the Center for Infectious Disease Research and Policy at the University of Minnesota, and an adviser to U.S. President Joe Biden. Scientists still don’t have a good understanding of why Covid-19 comes in sudden, roller-coaster-like changes, he said.“It will eventually burn itself through the population,” Osterholm said. “Within several weeks to a month and a half, you will see this peak come back down, and it’s likely to come down quickly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-forecasters-warn-india-deaths-may-double-in-coming-weeks-101620204376282.html
05-05-2021||India||Augmenting oxygen supply from all sources: Centre tells Gujarat high court||The central government has told the Gujarat high court that it is augmenting oxygen supply for Covid-19 patients from all available sources within India and also importing it from other countries through "diplomatic channels as well as the personal intervention of the political executive".In a report on the supply of medical oxygen submitted before the high court on Monday, the Centre said a total allocation of 8,410 metric tonnes of medical oxygen has been made for 22 high burden states and union territories based on their demand, the Centre told the high court on Tuesday.The states should also make an effort to manage their oxygen demand through rational usage of this "scarce and critical resource" by continuous and close monitoring of hospitals and stringent audit of the oxygen usage, it said. A division bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice B D Karia had sought the Centre's response while hearing a PIL taken up suo motu (on its own) on the Covid-19 situation.The Union government said it is "augmenting oxygen supply from all available sources within India and also importing oxygen from other countries using not only the diplomatic channels but also personal intervention of the political executive."The process is going on at the national level and is also being undertaken at an international level, it stated. Any deviation by any judicial order based upon fact, situation and considerations existing in one state will "completely frustrate the whole exercise and shall have a cascading effect", the Centre said."It is submitted that while this exercise is primarily in the nature of managing the supply side of medical oxygen, it is imperative that there are simultaneous efforts to manage the demand side by all the states by focusing on rational usage of this scarce and critical resource in the present circumstances through continuous and close monitoring of all hospitals as well as stringent measures of oxygen usage audit," the Centre said.It said the supply of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) by the steel sector increased from 1,000 MT per day in the first week of April 2021 to around 2,600 MT on April 21. From April 28 onwards, Gujarat was allocated 975 MT oxygen, it said. Based on the projected requirements of these critically affected states, 4,880 MT, 5,619 MT and 6,593 MT were mapped for the supply of medical oxygen to 12 states with a high number of Covid-19 cases, to meet their projected demand as of April 20, April 25, and April 30, respectively, and duly approved, it said.The initial demand for 15 states was revised to 5,619 MT from 4,880 MT as of April 20, with the requirement of Gujarat being at 1,000 MT, it said.Against its production capacity of 847 MT as of April 28, Gujarat required 1,000 MT LMO, and was allocated 975 MT, out of which the state received 902 MT, the central government said. "No stone is left unturned to ensure quickest possible transit of medical oxygen," it said, adding that the defence aircraft and Indian navy ships are being used for the purpose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/augmenting-oxygen-supply-from-all-sources-centre-tells-gujarat-high-court-101620204333984.html
05-05-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir police say top Lashkar commander killed in Sopore last night||Jammu and Kashmir Police has identified one of the two terrorists killed Wednesday night in Sopore as a top Lashkar commander, involved in the killing of two councillors in March this year. The other one has been identified as a local who joined terrorist ranks very recently. The duo was killed in an operation launched on Tuesday afternoon.Police said Hamas alias Asrar was a Pakistani citizen, who was affiliated with the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and active in areas such as Zaingeeer, Warpora, Hatlangoo, Brath, Darpora, Bomai, Zaloora and Nathipora.“He was active since 2018, being in the list of top 60 militants released by the JKP [police] recently, and was instrumental in misleading the youth... to join terrorist organisations,” said Kashmir inspector general (IG) Vijay Kumar.LeT is an Islamist jihadist group based in Pakistan. It was founded in 1987 by Hafiz Sayeed, one of India’s most wanted terrorists. LeT has been accused of attacking military and civilian targets in India, most notably the 2001 Indian Parliament attack and the 2008 Mumbai attacks. It is designated as a terrorist organisation by India, UN and the United States.Kumar said Hamas was involved in multiple terror related offences which include grenade throwing on security establishments and the recent killing of two councillors Peer Riyaaz and Peer Shamsuddin along with a special protection officer (SPO) Shafaat Ahmed on March 29.Six cases were registered against the Pakistan based terrorist, he added.The other militant killed in the encounter was identified as Waseem Nazir Lone of Hathlangoo, Sopore. Police said Lone was involved in stone pelting and worked as an over ground worker for the terror group before he went missing and joined Lashkar a few days ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-and-kashmir-police-say-top-lashkar-commander-killed-in-sopore-last-night-101620204322494.html
05-05-2021||India||EC was split over move to seek gag order on media||There were disagreements within the Election Commission of India (EC) over its move to seek a gag on media reportage of the Madras high court’s oral observations on April 26 blaming the poll body singularly for the second Covid-19 wave in the country, people aware of the matter said. One of the persons said disagreements also included over moving the Supreme Court against the remarks. The disagreements surfaced days after the Supreme Court on Monday called “far-fetched” an EC plea before the Madras high court for restraining media from reporting oral observations of the judges. The judges also said officials of the poll body should probably be tried on murder charges for allowing political parties to hold massive rallies without following Covid-19 norms.The EC opted to seek a gag order even as the differing opinions emerged at the poll body’s meetings, the persons said and added the decision was not unanimous. The poll body comprises chief election commissioner Sushil Chandra and commissioner Rajiv Kumar. The post of the second election commissioner has been vacant since Sunil Arora retired in April.In a statement on Wednesday, the EC maintained the commission always has appropriate deliberations before any decisions are taken while expressing its commitment to free media. “In the context of involvement of media, the Commission wishes to clarify that it stands sincerely committed to its faith in free media. The Commission, as a whole and each one of its members, recognises the positive role played by media in the conduct of all elections in the past and present and in strengthening electoral democracy in the country,” it said. The EC said it was unanimous that before the Supreme Court there should not be any prayer for restriction on media reporting.Also Read | SC nixes Maratha reservation, no review of 50% ceiling on quotaA gag on the media was not part of the EC’s prayer before the Supreme Court, where the poll body said judges should use “temperate language” and not blame it for something which was not within their domain. The EC argued it does not take over the governance during the election and issues directions and guidelines that the states are bound to follow. The Supreme Court asked the EC to take the observations by the high court in the right spirit. It told EC that the high courts were also a constitutional body and that the Supreme Court will not demoralise their judges by issuing any kind of restraint on their process of judicial determination.The Supreme Court reserved its order on the EC’s appeal against the observations and indicated that a judgment will be delivered this week.The EC has faced criticism for conducting an eight-phase long election in West Bengal amid the pandemic and refusing to club the last three phases despite a surge in infections.In the statement, the EC said it recognises the media’s role in ensuring transparency in the poll processes. “The Commission very specially recognises media’s role in enhancing effectiveness of election management and in reinforcing transparency from the very beginning of election process till the end, including transparent coverage during all processes, campaigning and from polling station level to counting. EC’s approach on the collaboration with media is that of a natural ally and remains unchanged.”The Supreme Court on Monday also said it was not in the favour of putting fetters on judges’ remarks or their media reportage. It said high courts must get “complete freedom” to decide issues before them, and that the “media is a very important and powerful watchdog of the judicial processes”.The high court on April 26 made the remarks against EC during a hearing of a writ petition seeking a direction for safety measures and fairness during vote counting in Tamil Nadu’s Karur constituency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ecwas-split-over-move-to-seek-gag-order-on-media-101620204082494.html
05-05-2021||India||Every life is priority, ensure 24x7 power at all hospitals: Centre to states||In the aftermath of the back-to-back fire incidents at Covid-19 hospitals, the ministry of home affairs on Wednesday wrote to all chief secretaries of states and union territories asking them for a plan of action to ensure that no fire incident occurs in any of the health facilities, particularly in Covid-dedicated facilities. Not of government facilities, private facilities should also be checked thoroughly, the ministry said.Incidents of a short circuit are taking place, either because of the high temperature or the lack of maintenance or because of the high load on internal wirings within the facilities, the ministry wrote.There should be a detailed review of all health facilities by the officials of the health, fire and power departments. "The States & UTs have also been requested to issue directions to the concerned officials at various levels, that health facility should be visited by field-level officials, to examine internal wirings and availability of functional safety equipment as per fire safety guidelines, within these facilities, and necessary remedial action be taken immediately in case any deficiencies are found," the PIB press release said.Emphasising that saving every life is a priority, the Centre said that a large number of Covid-19 cases are under treatment in Covid-dedicated facilities. Most of them are at ICU beds, oxygen-supported beds and are under ventilation. "It is important to ensure that there is the uninterrupted power supply on a regular 24x7 basis, in all the hospitals and medical facilities," the Centre said.On late Tuesday night, a fire broke out at UK Nursing Home in Delhi's Vikaspuri. There were 26 patients and all of them were admitted to the hospital for Covid-19 treatment. No injuries were reported.At least 15 Covid-19were killed in April after a fire broke out at the second floor ICU of Vijay Vallabh Hospital in Thane's Virar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/every-life-is-priority-ensure-24x7-power-at-all-hospitals-centre-to-states-101620203505469.html
05-05-2021||India||India accounts for 46% of world's new Covid-19 cases, quarter of deaths||India accounted for 46% of the new Covid-19 cases recorded worldwide last week and one in four of deaths, the World Health Organization (WHO) said on Wednesday.The surge of the coronavirus in India, including of a highly infectious new variant first identified there, has seen hospitals runs out of beds and oxygen, and morgues and crematoriums overflowing. Many people have died in ambulances and car parks waiting for a bed or oxygen.Worldwide, 5.7 million new cases were reported last week and more than 93,000 deaths, the WHO said in its weekly epidemiological report. India reported nearly 2.6 million new cases, a 20% increase on the previous week, and 23,231 deaths.The figures are based on official tallies, so India's proportion could be even larger if, as many experts believe, a large number of cases and deaths are not being recorded there as the system becomes overwhelmed. India accounts for almost 18% of the world's population.There are signs that India's outbreak is spreading to its neighbours. Nepal recorded a 137% increase in cases to 31,088 last week, while Sri Lanka's Covid-19 outbreak was also growing, the WHO said.On Tuesday India became the second country to record 20 million infections, after the United States. India's coronavirus deaths rose by a record 3,780 during the last 24 hours, with daily infections rising by 382,315 on Wednesday, health ministry data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-accounts-for-46-of-world-s-new-covid-19-cases-quarter-of-deaths-101620201317349.html
05-05-2021||India||2 members of Indian delegation attending G7 foreign ministers' meet in London test positive for Covid-19||India's entire delegation to the Group of Seven summit in London is self-isolating after two of its members tested positive for Covid-19, the British government said on Wednesday."Two delegates tested positive so the entire delegation is now self isolating," a British official said."The meeting had been enabled by a strict set of Covid protocols, including daily testing of all delegates," the British official said.Indian Foreign Minister Subrahmanyam Jaishankar did not test positive for the virus, Sky News reporter Joe Pike said on Twitter. Jaishankar was pictured meeting British interior minister Priti Patel on Tuesday.The delegation will be attempting to meet virtually, Pike added.The Indian High Commission in London did not immediately respond to requests for comment.Earlier, British vaccines minister Nadhim Zahawi said he was unaware of a report that delegates from G7 countries were self-isolating because of a Covid-19 scare.India is not a G7 member but was invited by Britain to this week's summit, along with Australia, South Africa and South Korea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-delegates-to-attend-g7-virtually-after-covid-19-scare-report-101620202186676.html
05-05-2021||India||UP extends 'partial corona curfew' again, to continue till May 10||The rising coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in Uttar Pradesh led the authorities to further extend the ongoing 'partial corona curfew' till May 10 7am. The curfew was due to end at 7am on Thursday. This is the second time that the curfew has been extended in the state.The Uttar Pradesh government imposed the partial corona curfew on April 30 from 8pm, which was scheduled to end on May 4. However, on May 3, the government extended the restrictions till 7am on May 6.The state government said that essential and emergency services will continue like earlier. Medical services, medicine shops, vegetable shops, groceries, and continuous process industries will continue to work.All other shops and establishments will remain closed during the period.During the restrictions, vaccination drive against the virus will continue and all essential services will be allowed, PTI reported a senior official as saying. The official refused to term it as a 'lockdown' and preferred 'closure' instead, the news agency reported.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19India on Wednesday reported over 382,000 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry's coronavirus disease dashboard. As per the ministry's data, Uttar Pradesh is one of the ten states that accounted for more than 70 per cent of the new cases registered in the last 24 hours. More than 25,000 people were detected positive for Covid-19 in the state.The state also has an active Covid-19 caseload of more than 100,000. The active cases tally in the state stands at 272,568, as per the ministry's data. The state reported the second-highest deaths in the last one day as 351 people succumbed to the disease, the data showed.#Unite2FightCorona3,780 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours.Ten States account for 74.97% of the new deaths. pic.twitter.com/HKLkQQ42ptSeveral state governments have imposed curfew and lockdown-like curbs to contain the spread of the disease as the number of infections multiply at a rapid pace in the country pushing the tally to over 20.66 million cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-extends-partial-corona-curfew-again-to-continue-till-may-10-101620199145714.html
05-05-2021||India||'Good to see': PM Modi retweets Pinarayi Vijayan on reducing vaccine wastage||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday lauded the efforts of healthcare workers and nurses in reducing vaccine wastage at a time when the country is ramping up vaccine production for the ongoing third phase of vaccination. "Reducing vaccine wastage is important in strengthening the fight against Covid-19," the PM tweeted.In his message, he chose to retweet Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan's message where Vijayan wrote Kerala has received 73,38,806 doses of vaccine from the Centre. "We've provided 74,26,164 doses, even making use of the extra dose available as wastage factor in each vial. Our health workers, especially nurses have been super efficient and deserve our wholehearted appreciation!" Vijayan said.Vaccine wastage is one of the issues being closely monitored by the Centre as vaccine stocks are depleting fast. According to the ministry's data, till 8am on Wednesday, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Bihar, Punjab, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Haryana, Manipur, Assam, Tamil Nadu, Lakshadweep reported wastage between 4.01 per cent to 9.76 per cent. Kerala has a low vaccine wastage percentage.In a meeting held with chief ministers earlier, PM Modi had advised using vaccines as and when they come, to avoid vaccine wastage. Vaccine hesitance was also a reason blamed for vaccine wastage, as if a vial is opened and not enough beneficiaries turn up, it may lead to wastage. On Wednesday, the Centre gave a state-wise outline of the number of doses still available with the states and the UTs. More than 94.47 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses are there with the states at present and 36 lakh doses will be reaching them in the next three days, the ministry said,||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/good-to-see-pm-modi-retweets-pinarayi-vijayan-on-reducing-vaccine-wastage-101620200268057.html
05-05-2021||India||Cabinet approves PMGKAY food aid scheme||The Cabinet on Wednesday approved allocation of additional foodgrain under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) Phase III for the months of May and June, 2021, an official statement said. The Cabinet’s approval was “ex-post facto”, meaning the programme announced last month is already under implementation. The allocation of additional foodgrain free of cost to approximately 798 million beneficiaries stands at 5 kg per person per month. It would entail an estimated food subsidy of ₹25,332.92 crore, an official statement said. According to official data, the Food Corporation of India currently has 77 million tonnes of foodgrains, 3.6 times more than the required emergency reserve for this time of the year. Also Read | Pandemic rages, but farmers defy odds with winter harvestNearly 810 million qualify for subsidised foodgrains under the food security law, under which beneficiaries get 5kg of wheat or rice covers per person per month. The Act applies to 67% of the population (75% in rural areas and 50% in urban pockets). The Centre will “bear full expenditure” of over ₹26,000 crore for the additional foodgrain allocation to the beneficiaries as part of Central assistance to states, an official said. Record Covid-19 infections and a crippled healthcare system have already left migrant workers jobless and hit the income of the poor due to lockdown-like restrictions in many states, as authorities battle the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-approves-pmgkay-food-aid-scheme-101620200602434.html
05-05-2021||India||Will meet Adar Poonawalla on Covid vaccines once he returns from London, says Maharashtra minister||The Maharashtra government has had no communication with Serum Institute of India CEO Adar Poonwalla on vaccine procurement after Adar's interview to a British media house where he claimed he was under immense pressure from some of the most powerful people in the country for vaccines. "When he returns (from London), we will have a meeting with him," Rajesh Tope told news agency PTI.Earlier, Tope said as Poonawalla hails from Pune and as his operation is based out of Pune, he should think about Maharashtra and give priority to his home state in allocating Covishield.As India started the third phase of the vaccination drive from May 1, which also includes people between the age group of 18 and 44 years, demand for vaccines doubled. The Centre provided Y category security to Poonawalla after his company wrote to the home ministry complaining of threats to Poonawalla.Adar Poonawalla must disclose who are threatening him, say Maharashtra leaders“I’m staying here (London) for an extended time because I don't want to go back to that situation. Everything falls on my shoulders but I can't do it alone...I don’t want to be in a situation where you are just trying to do your job, and just because you can’t supply the needs of X, Y or Z you really don’t want to guess what they are going to do,” Poonawalla told the British newspaper.Assuring that the work is going on in full swing at Serum, Poonawalla said he would soon come back to the country.According to PTI reports, The world's largest vaccine maker is looking to invest 240 million pounds in the UK to expand its vaccine business as part of the 1-billion pound India-UK Enhanced Trade Partnership. Serum is also conducting phase one trials of a nasal vaccine against coronavirus in the UK.Reacting to his complaints, the Maharashtra government and the state Congress earlier said Adar Poonawalla must complain to the state police regarding the threats he said he received.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-have-meeting-with-adar-poonawalla-on-covid-vaccines-once-he-returns-says-maharashtra-minister-101620199136820.html
05-05-2021||India||News updates from HT| Fuel rates hiked again: Petrol by 19 paise/litre, diesel by 21 paise/litre and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Fuel rates hiked again: Petrol by 19 paise/litre, diesel by 21 paise/litreState-run oil companies raised petrol price by 19 paise per litre and diesel by 21 paise on Wednesday, the second hike in a row, signalling restoration of upward price movement after assembly polls. Read more14-day lockdown begins in Odisha: Check out details hereTo contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the state, a 14-day lockdown has begun in Odisha from Wednesday. Along with this, the weekend lockdown in urban areas will also be in force till May 15. Read moreCentre moves SC challenging Delhi HC's show cause notice of contempt over deficit in oxygen supply to CapitalThe Centre on Wednesday moved the Supreme Court against show cause notice of contempt to it by the Delhi high court over deficit in oxygen supply to Delhi. Read more'Unedifying watching this tournament when people are dying just up the road': Hussain says IPL 'had to be called off'Former England captain Nasser Hussain feels the growing concern surrounded the extent of Covid-19 in India left the BCCI with no other option that suspending the Indian Premier League 2021 indefinitely with immediate effect. Read moreNo need for RT-PCR test for healthy individuals travelling inter-state: ICMRIndian Medical Council of Research released a new set of guidelines for testing against the Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) amid the exponential growth in the infection rate. Read moreJennifer Aniston urges fans to help India fight Covid-19 pandemic: 'Spread the word'Actor Jennifer Aniston has urged her fans to come out in support of India and create awareness as the country battles the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. Taking to her Instagram Stories, she shared several messages for her fans. Read moreBipasha Basu reminds fans basic protocols to fight Covid, asks them to not panicIndia is currently fighting the second wave of Covid-19. With most of the states in lockdown and public places shut, we are doing everything that we can to fight the further spread of the virus. Read more75-year-old woman hugs PPE-clad doctor after winning battle with CovidAmong many grim situations, one wholesome moment shared on Facebook from Medical College, Kolkata has struck a chord among netizens. The post shared by Tanmoy Dey shows a 75-year-old woman hugging a doctor after recovering from Covid. Read moreWatch | Covid & cancer: Risks, treatment, recovery | Oncologist Nitesh Rohatgi explains||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-fuel-rates-hiked-again-petrol-by-19-paise-litre-diesel-by-21-paise-litre-and-all-the-latest-news-101620197875559.html
05-05-2021||India||Mental health issues another challenge overworked healthcare workers face||Gauri Gupta has been working for 14 hours daily at the emergency ward of a hospital in Dehradun as the surge in Covid-19 cases continues to increase the workload of doctors like her across the country. Apart from her struggles of being constantly in personal protection equipment kit (PPE), Gupta has helplessly seen patients dying that left her traumatised. “...a few weeks ago, a 22-year-old man was admitted as an emergency case. His oxygen levels were drastically dropping...as doctors, we always need to feel hopeful and give hope to the patient’s family. Deep down, I knew that he could not be saved but we never gave up. We provided him with all the essentials, yet could not save him,” said Gupta. “When I had to break the news, I was shaking and had to mentally prepare myself to talk to his mother, who was very hopeful. I broke down as I told his mother and locked myself up in my chamber...” Gupta said she felt helpless over her failure.Also Read | Pune doctor resumes treating Covid-19 patients day after virus takes father awayPPEs have added to the woes of health care workers as the mercury continues to rise over the 40-degree C mark at many places in the country. “The PPE kit is extremely warm due to which I have had breakouts around my nose and mouth. ...the first time I had my period in a PPE kit...I could feel blood seeping through my PPE kit, as we usually have one kit assigned for one doctor a day...”Gupta said she felt extremely distracted, conscious, and uneasy. “I could smell the stinky blood and could feel it sticking against my legs because of the sweat. After my 14-hour long shift, I ran home, feeling miserable...”Damini Grover, a counseling psychologist, said consequences of such traumatic experiences are real. She added they can lead to long term issues like hyperactivity, post-traumatic stress disorder, depression, emotional imbalance, frequent panic attacks or depression. Grover said most doctors might always work with the feeling of guilt and doubt as the second wave of the pandemic has gone out of hand. She added considering doctors as humans is extremely important as they are witnessing so many deaths everyday. “The prolonged impact of the trauma the doctors are facing right now will deeply impact their personality and their personal lives,” said Grover. Subin Varghese, the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) supervisor at New Delhi’s Max Smart Super Speciality Hospital, said at the beginning of this year, the control in the rise of the infections made people careless. “I saw people not wearing masks or wearing them incorrectly, and similarly both the central and the state government did not plan...”Varghese said it is distressing to see patients die due to the lack of oxygen cylinders or ICU beds. “There are times you know that if I had an oxygen cylinder or a bed, I would have been able to save the patient, and that makes me feel hopeless... When you have six patients and one of them suddenly shows extreme symptoms, you put in all the resources available to save that life, but when that patient dies, what do you do?” Varghese said as healthcare workers, they do not have the time to mourn a patient’s death. “It is because you have five more patients to look after. I focus all my energy to save those five. My workplace has been very supportive by giving extra compensation for each shift to every worker but the misery of deaths and suffering I have been seeing for over a year now has made me numb...”Varghese said there are days when he is unable to sleep thinking about the people who could not be saved.Nikita Dhawan, who started her internship in April 2020 and has since been working in Covid wards in Dehradun, said seeing people die helplessly was very difficult to cope with. She has often suffered anxiety and even thought of giving up.“...there were days when we had to lock the hospital gates from inside as there was no capacity left to accommodate people. I could see people outside the gate, holding onto the hope that their loved one could be saved, and at that point, I used to feel hollow. I felt guilty for not being able to help,” said Dhawan. “But when you are on duty, you need to be numb. I have felt the loss of every patient, particularly a 15-year-old boy...I was in shock and felt a void. I could not stop crying while preparing his death certificate the next day. It was traumatising.”Shishupal Singh, the nursing in charge at Gurugram’s Fortis Memorial Research Institute, said they have to be positive and continuously motivate the patients. “There are times when the patients get emotional and miss their families [and we arrange] video calls... It is definitely tough to see the patients go through so much pain. But when I brief my team in the morning, I always make it a point to mention how the soldiers of our country are protecting us from the outer threat. Similarly, we have to protect our country from this virus.”Singh said there are times when his staff feels demotivated or anxious. “During such times, we stand as a team. We video call others, try to crack jokes, and play online games like Ludo to keep ourselves relaxed and positive.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mental-health-issues-another-challenge-overworked-healthcare-workers-face-101620198624758.html
05-05-2021||India||IndiGo airlifts 2,717 oxygen concentrators from 5 countries to India||IndiGo has airlifted 2,717 oxygen concentrators from Thailand, China, Qatar, Hong Kong and Singapore to India amid the Covid-19 pandemic's second wave in the country, the airline said on Wednesday.In total, the airline has transported 4,142 oxygen concentrators -- weighing about 72,461 kg -- within India or from outside India, it said in a statement.India has been badly hit by the second wave of the coronavirus infection as hospitals in several states are reeling under a severe shortage of oxygen, drugs, equipment and beds."As many as 2,717 have been airlifted from Thailand, China, Qatar, Hong Kong, and Singapore to India, while 1,425 oxygen concentrators have been transported domestically between 36 airports," the airline's statement noted.A massive load of other medical supplies has also been flown in on IndiGo flights to support the country, it mentioned.A record 3,780 fresh Covid-19 fatalities were registered in a single day in India taking the death toll to 2,26,188, while 3,82,315 new coronavirus infections were recorded in the country, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday.With the fresh cases, the Covid-19 infection tally in the country climbed to 2,06,65,148.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indigo-airlifts-2-717-oxygen-concentrators-from-5-countries-to-india-101620197376038.html
05-05-2021||India||PM Modi congratulates 'Mamata Didi' on taking oath as West Bengal CM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday congratulated Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee on taking oath as the Chief Minister of West Bengal for the third consecutive term."Congratulations to Mamata Didi on taking oath as West Bengal's Chief Minister," said Prime Minister Modi in a tweet.Earlier in the day, Mamata was administered the oath of office by West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar."I thank all the people who were looking at the Bengal elections. Our first priority is tackling Covid-19. Secondly, I urge all political parties to look around so that violence to be controlled. From today onwards, I am taking law and order into my hands. I will post the police accordingly to tackle the situation," she said after taking the oath."I will hold a big celebration once the pandemic is over," she added.Meanwhile, the Governor said that their first priority is to stop or end the worrisome violence which erupted in the state after the elections. "I congratulate Mamata Ji on her third term. Our priority is that we must bring an end to this senseless violence that has affected society at large. I have every hope that the CM on an urgent basis will take all steps to restore rule of law," said Dhankhar.TMC secured 213 seats in the eight-phased West Bengal Assembly elections while Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) won 77 seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-congratulates-mamata-didi-on-taking-oath-as-west-bengal-cm-101620197387805.html
05-05-2021||India||DMK's Stalin stakes claim to form government in Tamil Nadu||Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) chief MK Stalin called on Tamil Nadu governor Banwarilal Purohit at the Raj Bhavan on Wednesday and staked claim to form government in the state. Stalin was unanimously elected leader of the legislature party on Tuesday."Party president @mkstalin was elected leader of the DMK legislature party," DMK said on its official twitter handle on Tuesday after 133 newly elected MLAs participated in the meeting where the decision was made.Click here for full coverage on electionsParty general secretary Duraimurugan, treasurer T R Baalu, principal secretary K N Nehru and organisation secretary R S Bharathi accompanied Stalin to the Raj Bhavan, a party release said. This would be the sixth time DMK will come to power in the southern state.The 68-year-old leader will take oath as the Tamil Nadu chief minister on May 7 in a simple ceremony at the Raj Bhavan. The oath-taking ceremony will be a low-key event in view of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) crisis. In the recently concluded Tamil Nadu Assembly election, the DMK-led alliance won 159 seats. The AIADMK won 66 segments and its partners BJP and PMK four and five seats respectively. Tamil Nadu has a 234-member Assembly.Also Read: In Tamil Nadu, DMK sun rises againIn a statement after emerging victorious, Stalin thanked people for their mandate. “I’d be truthful to you, I’d work for you. My thoughts and deeds are for the people of Tamil Nadu,” he said, adding that the party had to face difficulties and endure insults in the run up to the polls, and this victory was a reward for their 50 years of work.The DMK was in opposition for a decade before this and its chief Stalin had been functioning in the shadows of his late father and former party chief M Karunanidhi. Stalin had, however, led the party to a sweeping victory in the 2019 parliamentary elections, by winning 38 out of 39 seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dmks-stalin-stakes-claim-to-form-government-in-tamil-nadu-101620196392797.html
05-05-2021||India||14-day lockdown begins in Odisha: Check out details here||To contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the state, a 14-day lockdown has begun in Odisha from Wednesday. Along with this, the weekend lockdown in urban areas will also be in force till May 15."There shall be lockdown throughout the state with effect from May 5, 2021 (Wednesday) till 5 am of May 19, 2021 (Wednesday)," the government had stated in a notification.Odisha registered 9,889 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, the state health department said on Wednesday. The state also reported 16 Covid-related fatalities, while 6,164 Covid-19 patients recovered from the infection.Here's the complete list of things that are allowed and not allowed during the lockdown:10.Cinema halls, malls, market complexes, gymnasiums, sports complexes, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, parks, bars etc won't be allowed to function.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/14day-lockdown-begins-in-odisha-check-out-details-here-101620193820139.html
05-05-2021||India||Assam imposes fresh Covid-19 curbs; shops to shut at 2pm, curfew from 6pm-5am||In view of the rising Covid-19 cases in the state, Assam on Tuesday imposed a fresh set of restrictions. In a revised order, Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA) said all shops, commercial establishments, and private and government offices will have to shut at 2pm on all days. Earlier, they had to down shutters at 6pm.There will be a complete restriction on the movement of people and vehicles at public places from 6pm to 5am on all days. Earlier, a similar curfew was in place from 8pm to 5am.The new measures will come into effect from 5am on Wednesday and will remain in place till further orders.“The positivity rate of Covid-19 cases in the state has shown significant rise necessitating a revisit of the existing directives,” said the fresh order issued by chief secretary Jishnu Barua.Also Read | Man arrested for torturing daughter after video goes viral in Assam’s SilcharOn Monday, Assam recorded 4,489 Covid-19 cases, the highest this year, and 29 deaths. The figure is close to the highest ever number of cases, 4,593, recorded on August 12 last year. The state has 26,477 active cases.As per the fresh guidelines, offices of organisations involved in essential and emergency services, law enforcement, and election work will be exempt from the 2pm deadline. Likewise, persons engaged in essential and emergency services will be exempted from the 6pm to 5am curfew timings.“No meeting at any open or closed spaces shall be allowed. For marriages, the only religious parts will be allowed with the presence of a maximum of 20 persons. No reception parties will be allowed before or after the marriage. At all religious places, a congregation of not more than five persons shall be allowed at any time,” the order said.“Restaurants and eateries can entertain dine-in guests up to 2pm. Takeaway including home delivery of food is allowed till 6pm after which only home delivery of food will be allowed. Restaurants operating within a hotel can allow outside guests up to 2pm. In-house guests of the hotels may be allowed to dine-in up to the usual time of operation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-imposes-fresh-covid-19-curbs-shops-to-shut-at-2pm-curfew-from-6pm5am-101620196342236.html
05-05-2021||India||Centre moves SC challenging Delhi HC's show cause notice of contempt over deficit in oxygen supply to Capital||The Centre on Wednesday moved the Supreme Court against show cause notice of contempt to it by the Delhi high court over deficit in oxygen supply to Delhi.Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta that the convenience of the special bench hearing the suo motu matter will be ascertained to see if this can be heard today.The suo motu case on Covid-19 emergency commenced in the Supreme Court with Mehta saying all efforts are being made to comply with the court order to give Delhi its 700 metric ton of oxygen.Supreme Court questioned Mehta why the Centre argued before the Delhi high court that 700 MT wasn't the number fixed by the top court. It added it was only after this denial by the Centre that the contempt notice was issued.The Supreme Court noted that the Centre's formula on allocation of oxygen has to be more scientific; it is too general at present. It asked the SG till the time a better formula can be evolved, Centre should inform how it will cater to Delhi.The Delhi high court on Tuesday issued a show-cause notice to the Centre, asking it to explain why the court should not initiate contempt proceedings against it.The notice, the high court said, was also over the “non-compliance” of the Supreme Court’s order from May 2, directing the central government to rectify the issue of shortage of medical oxygen in Delhi’s hospitals on or before the midnight of May 3. "You can put your head in sand like ostrich, we will not," the high court said."The Supreme Court has passed an order directing the Centre to ensure the supply. The Centre has submitted to us that a compliance affidavit is being filed before the Supreme Court tomorrow. We fail to understand what good a compliance affidavit will do when the required oxygen is not being brought to Delhi? Even the allocated oxygen has not been delivered on a single day," the high court said.The high court further said that the central government has submitted that the Supreme Court has not directed it to supply 700 metric tonnes (MT) oxygen to Delhi. "We disagree with the Centre. The Supreme Court has clearly directed the Centre to provide 700 MT oxygen to Delhi per day," it added.The Delhi high court said that the assurance that the central government gave to the apex court has "certainly not being fulfilled and we are personally seeing day after day hospitals and nursing homes running to us for emergency supply of oxygen."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-moves-supreme-court-challenging-delhi-hc-s-show-cause-notice-of-contempt-against-them-over-deficit-in-oxygen-supply-to-capital-101620194469063.html
05-05-2021||India||Maharashtra records over 51k Covid cases; state reports 891 deaths||The state on Tuesday recorded 51,880 new Covid-19 cases, even as 15 districts, including Mumbai and Thane, showed a drop in the number of cases, while 21 continued to record a high number of cases. The state reported 891 deaths; 240,956 people were tested.The state government in order to contain the Covid-19 virus has imposed a strict lockdown in six districts where the cases are increasing. In this lockdown, everything, except medical facilities, will remain closed and people can only venture out for medical emergencies.Health minister Rajesh Tope said, “If we compare today’s situation to that of two weeks ago, we have witnessed a decline in the number of cases. We have been able to bring down the numbers in 15 districts, but the cases continue to rise in 21 districts. Our main target is to bring down these numbers.”The state government has imposed a stricter curfew in six districts—Baramati, Sangli, Satara, Ahmednagar, Kolhapur and Beed – which have been witnessing an increase in Covid-19 cases.Tope justified stricter lockdown saying it was needed to bring down the cases. “There is definitely a lockdown in place, but this will be stricter,” said Tope. Due to the spike, these districts have been facing a shortage of hospital beds, ventilators as well as medicines like Remdesivir. Currently, the state needs approximately 40,000 oxygen concentrators, of which 20,000 will be provided to the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-records-over-51k-covid-cases-state-reports-891-deaths-101620194361862.html
05-05-2021||India||How to take care at home if suspecting or tested Covid-19||Amid the surge in Covid-19 cases, a large number of infected patients are under home isolation as they do not need hospitalisation. Here are some dos and don’ts for those recuperating at home: Dos Stay home; sanitise hands; isolate and take restAll family members should wear masksCross-ventilation in rooms – open windowsMonitor Body temperature (4 hourly )Oxygen saturation (by oximeter 4 hourly)*Asymptomatic family members exposed to symptomatic cases should monitor their health and get tested if symptoms appearDon’ts Do not use remdesivir in home care settingDo not use nebuliser for budesonide Do not use oxygen cylinder without advise of medical practitionerTreatment Drink water, soups, juice, cocoanut waterLie on your chest and breathe deeply to improve oxygenationParacetamol at 6 hours interval and cough syrup, if requiredMultivitamins and mineralSteam inhalation and/or warm water gargle thrice a dayAlso Read | No need for RT-PCR test for healthy individuals travelling inter-state: ICMRTreatment with the following as advised by your doctor Budesonide via Metered Dose Inhaler (MDI)/Dry Powder Inhaler (DPI)– only if symptoms persist beyond 5 daysIvermectin/HydroxychloroquineLow dose steroid if symptoms persist for more than 7 days (only on advice of your doctor)Antibiotics (as prescribed)Seek treatment if any of the following appears Oxygen saturation ≤ 93%; breathlessness or dizzinessSuspect Covid-19 If you have any of the following:Fever, cough, headache, sore throat, bodyache, breathlessness, recent loss of smell, recent loss of tasteSource: Ministry of health and family welfare||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-to-take-care-at-home-if-suspecting-or-tested-covid19-101620193521655.html
05-05-2021||India||No need for RT-PCR test for healthy individuals travelling inter-state: ICMR||Indian Medical Council of Research released a new set of guidelines for testing against the Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) amid the exponential growth in the infection rate. Under the fresh guidelines, the apex body suggested the removal of mandatory RT-PCR test for health people travelling in the country."The need of RT-PCR test [for] healthy individuals undertaking inter-state domestic travel may be completely removed," said ICMR in the advisory. All asymptomatic domestic travellers must follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviours, it added.The RT-PCR tests are considered more reliable than the rapid antigen tests and until now, people travelling in the country were required to produce negative RT-PCR report to cross the borders.ICMR also advised skipping the RT-PCR test if a Covid-19 patient has completed 10 days of quarantine and did not report fever in the last three days. "RT PCR test must not be repeated in any individual who has tested positive once either by RAT or RT PCR," it also said.The changed guidelines come as hospitals are inundated with Covid-19 patients and have pushed the health care system to crumble. The recent explosion in cases has led to a shortage of beds, ventilators and oxygen cylinders. There is almost a waiting of 7-days if a person is trying to get the Covid-19 test done at their home.In new guidelines, ICMR also talked about reducing RT-PCR tests to take the load off the existing laboratories. While ICMR is counting on more reliable new-generation Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) kits, if the tests end up being as inaccurate as the previous generation of RATs, they could artificially lower Covid-19 case numbers, and potentially create undiagnosed superspreaders.India's total virus caseload since the start of the pandemic surged past 20 million with more than 350,000 new cases reported on Wednesday and 3,780 more deaths.But the number of new infections has dipped from a peak of 402,000 last week, raising hopes that the worst of the devastating wave may have passed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-need-for-rt-pcr-test-for-healthy-individuals-travelling-inter-state-icmr-101620192609789.html
05-05-2021||India||Supreme Court strikes down Maratha reservation in jobs, education||The Supreme Court on Wednesday struck down the Maharashtra law that held the Maratha community as socially and economically backward, thereby ending the Maratha reservation in public education and employment. In doing so, the Supreme Court also quashed the Maratha reservation in so far it breaches the 50% ceiling of reservation. The top court, while nixing the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) Act, 2018, said that it violates equality as under Article 14 of the Constitution.The five-judge Supreme Court bench, comprising Justices Ashok Bhushan, L Nageswara Rao, S Abdul Nazeer, Hemant Gupta, and Ravindra Bhat, pronounced the verdict on Wednesday at 10:30am. The bench had earlier on March 26 reserved judgment in the case after a back-to-back hearing for 10 days.On Wednesday, the top court was hearing petitions challenging an earlier Bombay high court order which upheld the Maratha quota in 2019 and had ruled that the 50% cap on total reservations imposed by the Supreme Court could be exceeded in exceptional circumstances. Justice Ashok Bhushan said, "Neither the Gaikwad nor the submissions have made out any situation for exceeding the 50% reservation ceiling for Marathas. Therefore, we find there are no extraordinary circumstances for exceeding the ceiling. The Act for granting reservation has not made any circumstance for granting reservation to the Maratha community."Thereafter, the Supreme Court bench struck down the amendment which held that the Marathas are socially and economically backward classes, while adding that the classes which are already held to be so will be as per Article 342A of the Constitution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-strikes-down-maratha-reservation-in-jobs-education-101620191908607.html
05-05-2021||India||Busting the myths on Covid-19 medication||As the country reels under the second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, there is a lot of discussion around the drugs and treatments that work and those that don't against the virus. Speaking to Hindustan Times, Dr Lancelot Pinto, a pulmonologist and epidemiologist at Hinduja Hospital in Mumbai, cleared the air on Covid-19 medication.The virus, which has killed 226,188 people and infected more than 20 million people in the country, continues to ravage the lives of millions, resulting in the collapse of the healthcare system. As thousands of Covid-19 patients gasp for breath due to shortage of oxygen cylinders, many others run from pillar to post for antiviral medications such as remdesivir or favipiravir.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageHere is what Dr Pinto, one of India's leading experts on Covid-19 treatment protocols, has to say about various Covid-19 medications:Paracetamol- Patients should use paracetamol for fever and body ache but not round-the-clock as fever is a monitoring parameter of a person's heath. Doctors recommend patients do not consume more than 2-3 gm per day.Antivirals- The antivirals that have been tried for Covid-19 are lopinavir-ritonavir, remdesivir and favipiravir. Till date, the only antiviral drug that may have a role in the treatment of Covid-19 is remdesivir. None of the other drugs has been proven to be useful. A small clinical trial which tested favipiravir found the drug to not be effective for the primary end-point for which the trial was designed. Despite this, it has been widely sold and used across the country, exposing patients to all the adverse effects, while potentially offering no benefit at all. To the best of my knowledge, no other major nation across the world is presently using the drug. Interferons, which have antiviral effects, have been tried for Covid-19 too. SOLIDARITY, a large WHO-funded trial did not find interferon to be useful. The RECOVERY trial found that when used with corticosteroids, interferon may have a beneficial role.Antibiotics- Antibiotics are antibacterial. They have no role in the treatment of the manifestations of Sars-CoV-2 infection (a viral infection). However, if there is a suspicion of a superadded secondary bacterial infection (uncommon in non-hospital settings, and in the first 2 weeks of the disease), they can be used. The routine use of drugs such as azithromycin and doxycycline should be strongly discouraged.Ivermectin- Ivermectin is an anti-parasitic drug that was found to neutralise Sars-CoV-2 in the lab. This leads to hope that it may have a role in humans. However, no trial has found such an effect. A recently published systematic review suggested that it may have a role, but most of the included studies were not of a high research standard. Its routine use should also be discouraged.Remdesivir- Remdesivir does not save lives. Multiple studies have onsistently proven this. It may horten the duration of ymptoms in individuals who ave disease that is severe enough for them to warrant hospitalisation, and if they have signs of lung involvement. It may be more effective when given early in the viremic phase (in the first week of illness) than in the late immune phase. However, hospitalising individuals who are not sick enough to be hospitalised otherwise only to receive remdesivir should be discouraged, as it is not necessary, and will worsen the availability of hospital beds for those who truly need them.Plasma- PLACID (ICMR Indian trial), RECOVERY and Platina were large trials that conclusively proved that convalescent plasma was not effective. However, small trials have suggested that when used very early in the disease among high-risk individuals, with high titers of antibodies in the infused plasma, it may have a protective role. The widespread pleas for plasma when the patient is moderately or severely ill are unlikely to help the patient in any waySteroids- The RECOVERY trial proved that steroids, when used in patients with low oxygen levels, saved lives. However, their use in individuals with low oxygen levels is key. Early use of steroids, when oxygen levels are normal, can cause clinical worsening and be counterproductive. They should not be used routinely to bring down fever unless there is a concomitant evidence of clinical worsening or drop in oxygen levels. They are the only drugs which save lives, but when used with abundant caution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/busting-the-myths-on-covid-19-medication-101620185954146.html
05-05-2021||India||‘Mar Chrysostom will be remembered for his rich theological knowledge’: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday expressed condolence on the demise of one of India’s oldest religious leaders Mar Chrysostom and said he will be remembered for his rich theological knowledge and many efforts to remove human suffering. “Saddened by the demise of His Grace The Most Rev. Dr. Philipose Mar Chrysostom Mar Thoma Valiya Metropolitan. He will be remembered for his rich theological knowledge and many efforts to remove human suffering. Condolences to the members of the Malankara Mar Thoma Syrian Church,” PM Modi tweeted.Saddened by the demise of His Grace The Most Rev. Dr. Philipose Mar Chrysostom Mar Thoma Valiya Metropolitan. He will be remembered for his rich theological knowledge and many efforts to remove human suffering. Condolences to the members of the Malankara Mar Thoma Syrian Church.Commonly referred as the priest of wit and wisdom, Chrysostom died at a private hospital in Thiruvalla in Pathanamthitta district of Kerala due to age-related ailments at around 1:30am on Wednesday.He was appointed as a priest in 1944 and became a Bishop in 1953. He served as a Bishop for 68 years.Chrysostom was the senior-most Metropolitan of the Malankara Marthoma church in Thiruvalla. He was awarded the Padma Bhushan by President Ram Nath Kovind in 2018.He implemented and formulated many projects to improve the social, economic and cultural condition of the poor and destitute.The Bishop was known for his touching style of speech full of humour. Many books and documentaries have been published containing his humorous speeches.Chrysostom was close to some of the politicians of the country like former president K R Narayanan and prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mar-chrysostom-will-be-remembered-for-his-rich-theological-knowledge-pm-modi-101620189497579.html
05-05-2021||India||Two tribal girls allege rape in Assam||Four men allegedly raped two tribal girls in Assam’s Cachar district on Monday near a market where the latter sell vegetables. The girls filed a First Information Report on Tuesday even as the four are on the run.The two said the four have assaulted them several times earlier too and added they also threatened to kill them if they reported the assault.Also Read | In Assam, Sarbananda Sonowal, Himanta Biswa Sarma hold separate meetsPolice have registered a case against Roben Laskar, Gyash Uddin, Rokibul Hussain, and Siru Laskar.A local police officer said it is too early to say anything. “...we are investigating the matter,” said a police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-tribal-girls-allege-rape-in-assam-101620189261529.html
05-05-2021||India||Man arrested for torturing daughter after video goes viral in Assam’s Silchar||A man has been arrested in Assam’s Silchar after a video purportedly showing him torturing his minor daughter, stripping her naked at gunpoint, and continuously beating her with a bamboo stick, belt went viral on Tuesday. The girl’s mother is seen to be trying to rescue the girl as the father continues beating her. A neighbour finally filed a case against the father and had him arrested.Ditumoni Goswami, a local police officer, said they have rescued the girl and arrested her father. “We have registered a case against him...” Goswami cited their initial investigation and said they found the man assaulted the girl as he suspected her of stealing some valuables. “The man himself is involved in various illegal activities and in the video, we have seen he is showing a gun. However, we are yet to find the gun. After initial interrogation, we are going to produce the man before the court.”Also Read | Sonowal or Sarma? Assam waits for the next chief ministerGoswami said a case will be filed against the person, who has uploaded the video on social media. “The person who uploaded the video could have simply shared it with the police and action would have been taken against the father. But by sharing it on social media, the person has committed a crime. The video was uploaded multiple times by multiple account holders. We are trying to get the primary source. Action will be taken against those people who shared it.”Police superintendent Bhanwar Lal Meena said they have spoken to the girl’s mother. “We are also concerned about the mental trauma that the minor girl has gone through. We are trying to support them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-arrested-for-torturing-daughter-after-video-goes-viral-in-assam-s-silchar-101620188841369.html
05-05-2021||India||India records 382,315 new Covid-19 cases, tally crosses 20.66 million||India on Wednesday (May 5, 2021) registered 382,315 fresh cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the preceding 24 hours, pushing the nationwide infection tally past 20.66 million. 3,780 new fatalities were recorded in the same duration, mounting the country's Covid-19 death toll to 226,188. The country's cumulative case count has now reached 20,665,148, according to the Union health ministry's dashboard at 9:15am.Also Read: 'No need for RT-PCR tests if...': ICMR issues new testing guidelines for Covid-19India, battling the more infectious second wave of the coronavirus disease, has now registered over 300,000 daily Covid-19 cases for two weeks straight. The active coronavirus caseload, which crossed the three-million-mark nearly a week ago, currently stands at 3,487,229. This accounts for 17% of the total confirmed Covid-19 cases in the country. As many as 338,439 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours and so far, and 16,951,731 people in total have recovered from the viral disease, the health ministry’s dashboard displayed. With this, the country’s recovery rate stands at 81.91%, the government said. As many as 160,494,188 Covid-19 vaccines have been administered in the country so far.India's coronavirus caseload topped the 20-million mark on Tuesday, with the health system continuing to crumble under the weight of new cases and hospitals reporting a shortage of ICU beds and medical oxygen. The Indian Premier League (IPL), a lucrative cricket competition involving some of the sport's biggest global stars, was finally suspended in view of the crisis after several players tested positive for Covid-19 even inside their designated "bio-bubbles". Although the number of new infections has come down from a peak of 402,000 last week, raising hopes that the worst of the devastating wave may have passed, many suspect the fewer number of cases might be a result of reduced testing. According to research, the deaths from Covid-19 in India may even double from current levels in the coming months.Meanwhile, India is not the only country in the renewed warpath of the deadlier coronavirus wave. Fierce new Covid-19 waves are enveloping other developing countries, from Laos to Thailand, across the world. The increase is mainly because of more contagious virus variants, though complacency and lack of resources to contain the spread have also been cited as reasons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-382-315-new-covid-19-cases-tally-crosses-20-66-million-101620183919899.html
05-05-2021||India||Muslims come to help after locals prevent last rites of Covid victim in Assam||When the body of Mrinal Kanti Dey, 58, was taken to a crematorium in Assam’s Karimganj at 5.30pm on Monday, residents stopped his family from doing his last rites there as he had died of Covid-19. The family’s pleas fell on deaf ears. They tried to convince the resident almost the entire night, and prompted a group of men, including four Muslims, to help cremate the body in an open ground away from Karimganj town. The locals argued the area is densely populated and the cremation could lead to infections in the area. Health department officials also unsuccessfully tried to convince the residents.The group, which included Nizamuddin, Kabir Ahmed, Salim, and Ali, came forward to help around 3.00am on Tuesday and cremated the body with the help of the health department, which provided the Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kits for the last rites.Dey’s family was handed over the body after a declaration that the cremation will be done with adherence to Covid-19 protocols. Residents have stopped cremations of several such bodies in the region.Also Read | Sonowal or Sarma? Assam waits for the next chief ministerMrinmoy Dey, a family member of Mrinal Kanti Dey, said they were in a situation they will never forget. “I can understand the emotions of the locals, but their knowledge was poor. It is impossible that the virus can spread through the smoke. But at that moment, we were few people and there were hundreds.”Sujan Deb Roy, the founder of the Karimganj unit of NGO Robin Hood Army, said they were shocked to see the behaviour of people. “They did not realise that the same thing can happen to them any day. Unfortunately, all of them were Hindu people and it was their duty to support a Hindu man’s last rites. Instead, some Muslim brothers came to support us. I am proud of them.”Kabir Ahmed, who was among those who helped with the cremation, said it is the holy month of Ramzan and they were performing some rituals at midnight when they received a call, and someone said that local people are not allowing somebody’s last rites. “We rushed to the place. We asked the family members and the NGO if we can be a part of this process because it is our duty as a responsible members of society. We are thankful that they allowed us to be a part of it.”Additional deputy commissioner (health), Karimganj, Hivare Nisarg Gautam said cremations of Covid-19 positive have happened earlier at the crematorium. “But that day some local people suddenly stopped our officials saying that the smoke coming out of cremations of Covid infected bodies can spread the virus. We tried to convince them, but they became aggressive and finally, we had to shift the process somewhere else. With the help of some social workers and our officials, it was done outside the town.” He said they were discussing this matter with higher officials.  Hundreds, including some carrying weapons, gathered at a crematorium in the neighbouring Silchar last year and warned a family of a person, who had died of Covid-19, against conducting the last rites.Dilip Kumar Paul, the local lawmaker, and health department officials rushed to the crematorium to convince the locals. Silchar Medical College Principal Babul Bezbaruah even explained how the virus spreads and said it cannot spread through the dead bodies released from hospitals as they are wrapped in three layers of plastic and also sanitised. Over 80 dead bodies were then allowed to be cremated at the Silchar crematorium as per protocols.Government guidelines mandate separate arrangements for cremations of people who die of Covid-19. Mourners and others attending cremations have to wear PPE kits and bodies have to be covered in three layers of plastic.Over 100 people have so far died of Covid-19 at the Silchar Medical College and NGOs were involved in the cremations last year. But this year, the Disaster Management Authority and in some cases, families are allowed to conduct the last rites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/muslims-come-to-help-after-locals-prevent-last-rites-of-covid-victim-in-assam-101620188121418.html
05-05-2021||India||No decrease in number of tests: Maharashtra minister on decline in Covid-19 cases in 15 districts||The number of daily Covid-19 infections in Maharashtra has significantly come down in the last few days as from around 70,000 daily cases, the state is recording around 50,000 new cases. Dismissing fewer tests as the reason behind the sudden dip in the number of cases, health minister Rajesh Tope said 15 districts, including Mumbai, Dhule, Nanded, Bhandara, Thane, Nashik, Latur, Nandurbar, Nagpur, Aurangabad, Amravati, Raigad, Osmabanad, Chandrapur and Gondia, are seeing a decline in the number of daily cases. In and around 20 districts including Sangli, Satara, Buldhana and Kolhapur, the cases are still on the rise.Maharashtra's daily Covid tally above 50,000-mark, 2,554 fresh cases in MumbaiThe positivity rate has dropped by 5 per cent and has settled around 22 per cent from 27 per cent. Asserting that there has been no reduction in the number of testing, the minister said, "The number of daily tests ranges between 2.5 lakh and 2.8 lakh of which RT-PCR (lab technique) accounts for 65 per cent and RAT (rapid antigen test) 35 per cent."Maharashtra's recovery rate of 84.07 per cent is the highest in the country, the minister said.In the last two days, more people have recovered from Covid-19 than the number of people who have contracted the infection, which is a signal of the situation gradually improving. On Tuesday, around 65,934 people recovered as against 51,880 new infections. On Monday, 59,500 people recovered while 48,621 new cases were registered.The state is under restrictions till May 15. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray recently said the restrictions are showing results as the Covid-19 situation is gradually brought under control. There will be no need for a stricter lockdown, the chief minister said.(With PTI Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-decrease-in-number-of-tests-maharashtra-minister-on-decline-in-covid-19-cases-in-15-districts-101620185280038.html
05-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Rain over east, peninsular, and north India this week||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Widespread rain over east, peninsular, and parts of north India likely this weekThere is likely to be widespread rain and thunderstorms over east, peninsular and parts of north India this week, according to India Meteorological Department. A cyclonic circulation is lying over west Uttar Pradesh and its neighbourhood and a trough is running from this circulation to Assam. Read more.Mamata Banerjee to take oath as West Bengal CM for her 3rd consecutive termTrinamool Congress (TMC) chief Mamata Banerjee will take oath as the chief minister of West Bengal on Wednesday. After emerging victorious in the high-stakes West Bengal Assembly elections on May 2, the TMC supremo will become the CM of the state for her third consecutive term. Read more.One of India’s oldest religious leaders Mar Chrysostom dies at 103One of the oldest religious leaders of the country, Dr Philipose Mar Chrysostom, often called the priest of wit and wisdom, died at a private hospital in Thiruvalla in Pathanamthitta district at around 1:30 am on Wednesday. Read more.Nafisa Ali quashes rumours of Lucky Ali's death: 'He is totally well, we were chatting this afternoon. No Covid-19'Amid rumours of singer Lucky Ali's death, actor Nafisa Ali took to Twitter and put all fears to rest, announcing that he is healthy and fine. She also confirmed that he has not been diagnosed with Covid-19. Read more.Aussies in IPL eye Maldives route home after league is haltedForeign players in the Indian Premier League will spend sleepless nights after being left stranded in India following the postponement of the Twenty20 league on Tuesday. Read more.Gauahar Khan is a modern-day nayi dulhan in classy red ethnic outfit for RamadanGauahar Khan is a fashionista and there is no denying that. The actor surely has a way with casual pieces but she also knows how to slay an ethnic outfit and add a modern twist to it. Read more.Cloudburst triggers landslides in Himachal’s Chamba; damages private propertiesA cloudburst was reported in Himachal Pradesh’s Chamba on May 4. It triggered landslides, damaging a highway and other properties. Landslides in the district damaged private vehicles and also disrupted traffic in the area. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-rain-over-east-peninsular-and-north-india-this-week-101620184248569.html
05-05-2021||India||'Criminal act, no less than genocide': Allahabad HC on deaths due to non-supply of oxygen||In a strong comment regarding the grim coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in the country, the Allahabad high court on Tuesday said that the loss of lives of Covid-19 patients due to non-supply of oxygen amounts to nothing short of a "criminal act" -- a "genocide" -- on part of those entrusted to ensure such supplies."We are at pain in observing that the death of Covid patients just for non supplying of oxygen to the hospitals is a criminal act and not less than a genocide by those who have been entrusted the task to ensure continuous procurement and supply chain of the liquid medical oxygen," read an order passed by the Allahabad high court bench of Justice Ajit Kumar and Justice Siddhartha Varma.The Allahabad high court took stock of reports of shortage of medical oxygen due to rise in Covid-19 infections. It highlighted stories viral on social media of hapless citizens begging for an oxygen cylinder to save the life of their near and dear ones, both at the end of the district administration and the police administration. The bench also observed the rampant hoarding of oxygen cylinders and harassment of citizens who are desperately in need of them."The news was also viralled that five patients had died in ICU of a new trauma centre of Medical College, Meerut on Sunday last. Similarly, news were also being viralled that one Sun Hospital, Gomti Nagar, Lucknow and another private hospital at Meerut had taken their hands off the admitted Covid patients only for the reason that oxygen supply was not made even after demand. We find these news items showing a quite contrary picture to one claimed by the Government that there was sufficient supply of oxygen," it pointed out.The current state of affairs about the management of an online portal created by the government today casts a shadow upon Covid-19 hospital management, the high court said.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/criminal-act-no-less-than-genocide-allahabad-high-court-on-deaths-of-covid-19-patients-due-to-non-supply-of-oxygen-101620182352780.html
05-05-2021||India||One of India’s oldest religious leaders Mar Chrysostom dies at 103||One of the oldest religious leaders of the country, Dr Philipose Mar Chrysostom, often called the priest of wit and wisdom, died at a private hospital in Thiruvalla in Pathanamthitta district at around 1:30 am on Wednesday.The senior-most Metropolitan of the Malankara Marthoma church headquartered in Thiruvalla, Chrysostom was 103 years old. He was known for his speeches full of wit and wisdom, lampooning rigid beliefs and systems in society.Born on 27th April 1918, he celebrated his 103rd birthday two weeks back. Often addressed as ‘chiriyude pithavu’ in Malayalam (father of wit and wisdom) for his sense of humour and sarcasm, he always stood for secular values of the country.When Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan called on him last year, the priest offered him tea. But the CM politely refused it saying he just had it. “Nobody ever dared to call on me after being drunk,” Chrysostom said and all burst into laughter in appreciation of his wit. In his speeches and writings, he always questioned rigid beliefs in his unique style and exhorted believers to live a happy and contented life instead of complaining. CM Pinarayi Vijayan has offered condolence calling his death a big loss to the countryIn 2018, the country bestowed him with the third highest civilian honour, the Padma Bhushan. In 2017, the church announced a programme called Navodaya movement for welfare and mainstreaming of the transgender community to mark his 100th birthday.One of the oldest bishops of the country, he was ordained as a priest in 1944 and became a bishop in 1953. He became the Metropolitan of the Marthoma Church in 1999 and remained there till his retirement in 2010 due to age-related ailments. Chrysostom was close to some of the tallest leaders of the country including former President K R Narayanan and prime minister A B Vajpayee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-of-india-s-oldest-religious-leaders-mar-chrysostom-dies-at-103-101620181160882.html
05-05-2021||India||'No need for RT-PCR tests if...': ICMR issues new testing guidelines for Covid-19||Though the Centre repeatedly asked states and Union territories to increase the proportion of RT-PCR tests to at least 70 per cent of all Covid-19 tests being conducted, the Indian Council of Medical Research, in its new testing guideline issued on Tuesday, has talked about reducing RT-PCR tests to take the load off the existing laboratories.ICMR has recommended no RT-PCR tests if> An individual has tested positive by rapid antigen test.> An individual has tested positive once by RT-PCR test.> One has completed 10 days home isolation period with no fever for the last three days.> At the time of hospital discharge.> A healthy individual is undertaking interstate domestic travel. While this is a requirement imposed by states, ICMR said this can completely be removed to reduce the load on laboratories.Also Read: ICMR’s guidelines push antigen tests amid surgeAt a national level, India can test close to 15 lakh tests in its 2,506 molecular testing laboratories, including RT-PCR, TrueNat, CBNAAT and other platforms. But with a sudden surge in the number of RT-PCR tests and many staff testing positive and thus being relieved from duties, the laboratories are overburdened. It is taking over 72 hours to process one RT-PCR test now. Given this situation, the ICMR is recommending bringing back the focus on Rapid Antigen Testing for mass detection. RAT may be allowed at all available government and private healthcare facilities, in cities, towns, villages, at offices, schools, colleges, community centres and other vacant spaces. Drive through RAT facilities may also be created, the ICMR said.Who should take RT-PCR tests then?According to ICMR, individuals with symptoms identified negative by rapid antigen testing should be linked with RT-PCR test facility.Writing vaccine status mandatoryThe ICMR has made it mandatory to enter the information of vaccination status in the testing form for RAT or RT-PCR. This information is of critical importance, the ICMR said. This comes in the wake of people testing positive after one or both doses of the vaccines.Suspect case of Covid-19While getting tested first was recommended before, in the current upsurge of Covid-19 cases, the ICMR says, any individual presenting with fever (with or without cough), headache, sore throat, breathlessness, body ache, the recent loss of taste or smell, fatigue and diarrhea should be considered as a suspect case of Covid-19 unless proven otherwise by confirmation of another etiology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-need-for-rt-pcr-tests-if-icmr-issues-new-testing-guidelines-for-covid1-101620178785589.html
05-05-2021||India||India, UK agree on technology collaboration for combat aircraft||In a major move, India and the UK on Tuesday vowed to expand bilateral defence cooperation, including through technology collaboration in developing combat aircraft and complex weapons, during a virtual summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his British counterpart Boris Johnson.A 10-year roadmap unveiled at the summit for boosting overall India-UK ties mentioned that the two countries will strengthen cooperation to take "decisive and concerted actions" against globally proscribed terrorists and terror entities.In the talks, the two sides also agreed to increase maritime co-operation while India invited the UK's liaison officer to the Indian Navy's information fusion centre, a key facility that keeps a hawk-eyed vigil on developments and movement of ships in the Indian Ocean region.A 10-year roadmap unveiled at the summit for boosting overall India-UK ties mentioned broadening dialogue on "combat air collaboration to determine how the UK can support India's ambitions for their light combat air MK2 programme"."Both prime ministers agreed to deepen their defence and security cooperation through the India-UK defence and international security partnership framework and welcomed the finalisation of the new logistics MoU," said a joint statement on Modi-Johnson talks. It said the two leaders agreed that there is a promising new era ahead for India-UK collaboration on key military technologies including combat aircraft, maritime propulsion system and complex weapons, harnessing the strengths of Indian and British industries, government laboratories and academia.The statement said such collaborations will help in delivering the next generation defence and security capabilities through co-development and co-production.Joint Secretary in the Europe West division in the Ministry of External Affairs Sandeep Chakravorty said at a media briefing that the two sides discussed co-development and co-production of military hardware."They agreed to increase maritime co-operation, inviting the UK's Liaison Officer to India's information fusion centre, establishing an annual India-UK maritime dialogue and strengthening operational coordination," the statement said."During the deployment of the UK's Carrier Strike Group in the Indian Ocean Region in 2021, they agreed to hold joint exercises that will deepen cooperation in a region of critical strategic importance to both countries," it said.The 10-year roadmap said India and the UK will work in a strategic partnership to strengthen efforts to tackle cyber, space, crime and terrorist threats and develop a free, open and secure Indo-Pacific region."Our shared interests will underpin greater cooperation in multilateral fora where a strengthened UK India relationship will build understanding among diverse partners on international security and will help set global rules for cybersecurity and space taking into account their respective interests," it said.It also mentioned that the two sides will aim to further enhance cooperation to promote international security and stability in cyberspace including through bilateral cooperation on critical national infrastructure, healthcare and vaccines.The joint statement said both leaders reiterated their full support to a free, open, peaceful and secure cyberspace and agreed to strengthen cooperation through an enhanced India-UK cyber security partnership to tackle growing cyber threats."They affirmed their shared vision of an open, free, inclusive and rules-based Indo-Pacific region, underpinned by respect for territorial integrity and sovereignty, rule of law, transparency, freedom of navigation and overflight in the international seas, unimpeded lawful commerce, and peaceful resolution of disputes," it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-uk-agree-on-technology-collaboration-for-combat-aircraft-101620172808260.html
05-05-2021||India||14 on cargo ship from India test positive for Covid-19 in South Africa||Fourteen crew members of a cargo ship that sailed to Durban from India have tested positive for Covid-19, South Africa's Transnet National Port Authority has said. A spokesperson from Transnet said the cause of a chief engineer's death aboard the ship was heart attack and not Covid-19.The 14 were among the entire crew that was tested after the ship arrived in Durban on Sunday. They are now all in isolation as authorities start a track and trace initiative for all those who might have been in contact with them."The vessel is currently on quarantine. No one is allowed to leave or enter the vessel, and the company responsible for anyone who worked on board is to track and trace all employees who interacted with the subject vessel,” Transnet said on Tuesday.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageA senior port official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, told a news portal that at least 200 port employees had been working on the vessel since Sunday evening, manually offloading about 3,000 tonnes of rice."The rice came in 50kg bags. We are a bit concerned because a lot of people have boarded that vessel since Sunday,” the source said.Transnet said the ship with Filipino crew had sailed directly from India, where they had been tested for Covid-19 and cleared as per requirements."Upon arrival at the Port of Durban, as a standard precautionary measure, all crew members were tested and 14 of the crew tested positive for Covid-19. The entire vessel is currently in quarantine at the Port of Durban, as per Covid-19 regulations," Transnet said.All operations with the vessel have been suspended.The authority said it remained vigilant to ensure that all vessels calling at the port have been cleared."TNPA is responsible for ensuring that all vessels calling the port have been cleared by relevant state organs, namely, port health, migration, MRCC and customs before entering or leaving the port,” it said.News of the incident caused widespread concern on social media about fears that the new B.1.617 variant that was causing thousands of deaths in India daily had reached South African shores.Health Minister Zweli Mkhize has assured the public that plans are in place to test all arrivals into the country, reminding them that there were no direct flights from India.Mkhize did express concern though that those arriving from India via other countries could pose a challenge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/14-on-cargo-ship-from-india-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-south-africa-101620175873811.html
05-05-2021||India||Facebook launches in-app vaccine finder tool in India||American technology conglomerate Facebook has partnered with the Indian government to roll out a vaccine finder tool on its mobile app in India, which will help people identify places nearby to get vaccinated.According to Mashable, earlier this week, Facebook announced a USD 10 million grant for emergency response efforts for the Covid-19 situation in the country. The vaccine tracker tool will allow users to find the nearest vaccine centre locations and their hours of operation as shared by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW).The tracker tool will also aggregate and display walk-in options (for 45 years and above) along with a link to register on the Cowin portal and schedule vaccination appointments.Facebook said in a post on its platform, "Partnering with the Government of India, Facebook will begin rolling out its Vaccine Finder tool on the Facebook mobile app in India available in 17 languages to help people identify places nearby to get the vaccine."The company said that it is also will be joining hands with NGOs and agencies -- namely, United Way, Swasth, Hemkunt Foundation, I Am Gurgaon, Project Mumbai and US-India Strategic Partnership Forum (USISPF) -- to deploy the funds announced to help build up a stock of critical medical supplies with over 5,000 oxygen concentrators and other life-saving equipment like ventilators, BiPAP machines.As per Mashable, Facebook also said that the Covid-19 Information Center and in Feed will also have information on how to seek emergency care and how to manage mild Covid-19 symptoms at home, and this will be provided by UNICEF India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/facebook-launches-in-app-vaccine-finder-tool-in-india-101620172837174.html
05-05-2021||India||Renowned infectious diseases expert Dr Rajendra Kapila, 81, dies of Covid-19||Ghaziabad: Renowned infectious disease specialist and Rutgers University professor Dr Rajendra Kapila passed away in Delhi on April 28 after having tested positive for Covid-19 on April 8. He was 81.Dr Kapila worked extensively on HIV-AIDS, trained many people in the field and practised at the Rutgers University for 50 years.He had returned to India with wife Dr Deepti Saxena-Kapila in the last week of March and stayed in Ghaziabad. He was supposed to fly back to US by second week of April but was admitted to Delhi’s Shanti Mukund Hospital where he died.“For the last one year I have been working at a Covid-19 lab in New Jersey and had ensured a safe environment at home,” said Dr Deepti, who specialises in microbiology. “It is ironic that we came to India for two weeks and he contracted it here.”She said Dr Kapila had got both doses of the Pfizer vaccine in the US.In a memorial message sent out by Rutgers University faculty, Dr. Marc Klapholz , professor and chair of the department of medicine, said, “A genuine giant in the field of infectious diseases, Dr. Kapila was recognized world-wide and sought out for his legendary knowledge and extraordinary clinical acumen in diagnosing and treating the most complex infectious diseases. Dr. Kapila made countless contributions to the field of infectious diseases, including some of the earliest observations about AIDS (1983) and continued to publish throughout his long career.”Dr Ishwar Gilada, consultant for HIV and infectious diseases, and president of the AIDS Society of India (ASI) had trained under Dr Kapila in 1987.“He was a gem of a gentleman and was well known in the US. He cared for all his pupils and would always accept ASI invitations for meetings,” said Dr Gilada, who is based out of Mumbai.Dr Ruby Bansal, an HIV specialist and head of the preventive health programme at Yashoda Super Speciality Hospital at Kaushambi, described Dr Kapila as one who was passionate about teaching.“Whenever Dr Kapila visited India, he would deliver lectures to fellow doctors at major private hospitals in the city and never said ‘no’ to an opportunity to teach,” said Dr Bansal.Dr Kapila completed his MBBS from Maulana Azad Medical College, University of Delhi, and in 1964, achieved his MD from College of Medical Sciences, Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital, University of Delhi.As per his profile on the Rutgers University website, he was an intern, resident and fellow at the Martland Hospital in Newark, New Jersey. He was also the assistant chief of medicine for the US Army in Okinawa, Japan, during the Vietnam conflict. He was a founding member of the New Jersey Infectious Disease Society, and has also received the Excellence in Teaching Award from UMDNJ. Dr. Kapila was the Chair of the Infection Control Committee there.“Dr Kapila’s death is a great loss for the medical fraternity as his studies in the field of infectious diseases, be it HIV or fungi or even coronavirus, was par excellence. When coronavirus outbreak began, he devoted his time in its research,” said Dr Bansal.Robert A Schwartz,member of US Presidential Advisory Council on HIV/AIDS and professor and head of dermatology at Rutgers University condoled the demise of Dr Kapila on Twitter, saying, “Condolences to the family of Rajendra Kapila, the @RutgersU professor, @CityofNewarkNJ physician, and @USArmy veteran who advocated for the finest healthcare attainable for all. He will be remembered for his unmatched sagacity and conduct exemplarily of the @AOA_society motto. (sic)”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/renowned-infectious-diseases-expert-dr-rajendra-kapila-81-dies-of-covid19-101620168008338.html
05-05-2021||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||When India crossed a million reported Covid-19 cases on July 16, 2020, I headlined my next column “A Million and a Manifesto”, putting forth suggestions on how to manage the pandemic (back then, testing was the big challenge). With India crossing the 20 million reported cases mark on Monday (May 3), here are some suggestions on how the country’s struggling vaccine drive (currently the big challenge) can be accelerated and universalised. There’s little to be achieved by discussing what India got wrong (most things, actually) in its vaccine strategy, but here’s what the people in charge of India’s vaccine strategy can do to make things better.The first and immediate task is to enhance supplies — by authorising (after due process) more vaccines for emergency use, exploring voluntary licensing (although manufacturing may pose a bigger challenge than many experts advocating compulsory or voluntary licensing believe), working with local manufacturers to increase capacity, and placing vaccine orders well (preferably months) in advance with both local and foreign companies.The second is to possess and provide complete clarity on the timing and volume of supplies so that the states and private hospitals know how many vaccines they will have at hand, and when. Ideally, this should be linked to the vaccine registration website so that people seeking shots know this too. In the interests of transparency, the website should display the number of vaccine doses available in each district, and if none is available, the earliest when they will be.The third is to focus on achieving the primary target. As I have explained before in this column, this is 375 million. That’s the number of people who need to be administered at least one dose of the vaccine for the result to make itself felt on the trajectory of the pandemic. That translates into 40% of the eligible population (those over the age of 18 years). If this means mandatorily extending the gap between doses to 12 weeks to those administered Covishield, the Serum Institute of India’s locally manufactured version of the AstraZeneca/Oxford vaccine, so be it. Research shows that this can be done without any risk and that, in fact, such a hiatus enhances the vaccine’s efficacy. The sooner India hits that number, the better its chances of flattening the infection curve, and staving off a third wave of the pandemic. One expert I spoke to said the results will start becoming evident even at 235 million people (India is currently at 129 million, of which 100 million have been administered only one dose of the vaccine).The fourth is to remove vaccine hesitancy. This is evident even in some parts of urban India; and it is a big problem in rural India. The closer India gets to universal vaccination, the higher its chances of not witnessing recurring waves of Covid over the next several years. A combination of incentives and punitive measures (preventing those who have not been vaccinated from traveling by rail or air, for instance; or making them ineligible for government jobs and bank loans) may be required.The fifth is to work with vaccine makers to expedite vaccinations for those under the age of 18. India has around 450 million people under the age of 18. That’s more than the population of the US, the UK, and France combined. There’s no way India can beat back Covid-19 unless this segment of the population is also protected against the disease.The sixth is to create a unit in government that can estimate demand for Covid vaccines in years to come. It is becoming clear that the first generation of vaccines will provide protection for a limited time — six months to a year at the lower bound, and a year-and-a-half at the higher. This means the country will need billions of doses of vaccines every year till a single-shot vaccine is developed (it’s just a matter of time before one is). And once the annual demand estimation is complete, India’s vaccine drive managers can loop back and focus on the first and the second tasks again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-what-you-need-to-know-today-101620162780567.html
05-05-2021||India||1 year of Covid and the way forward||India is currently in the grip of a second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, far worse than the first wave. As more states go under complete or partial lockdowns, economic activity is bound to take a hit. In our report, State of Working India 2021: One Year of Covid-19, we analysed data from 2020 to investigate how the pandemic impacted vulnerable households, whether the policy measures enacted thus far were effective, and what more can be done.Employment recovery has stagnated below pre-pandemic levels and poverty has increasedStatistics from Consumer Pyramids Household Survey of the Centre for Monitoring the Indian Economy (CMIE-CPHS) suggest that India’s first national lockdown, one of the most stringent in the world, resulted in a loss of employment for around 100 million workers during the months of April and May 2020.As lockdown restrictions eased in subsequent months, the employment rate recovered but is still not back to its pre-pandemic value. The employment rate was 94% of its pre-pandemic level by December 2020 for men and only 76% for women.This week, the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy has released employment data for January to April of 2021. These data show that employment recovery has stagnated with the employment rate remaining at 93% of its pre-pandemic value for men and 73% for women.The job loss and fall in earnings (more on this later) caused a large increase in poverty. We calculate income poverty using the recommended National Floor Minimum Wage (Anoop Satpathy committee) of Rs.375 per day as a threshold. Compared to the pre-pandemic period, the number of individuals below this poverty line increased by 230 million. In proportional terms, the poverty rate has increased by 16% in rural areas and 20% in urban areas.10% decline in mobility was associated with a 7.5% decline in incomeJob losses were higher for states with a higher average Covid-19 case load. Figure 1 shows a state-level job loss representation index, or the ratio of the state’s share in jobs lost between 2019 and 2020 to its share in India’s workforce. Delhi, Maharashtra, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh, contributed disproportionately to job losses. These are also the states with a high share of Covid-19 cases.Mobility restrictions as well as voluntary reductions, due to fear of infection, led to income losses. Google Mobility data at the state-level put together with CMIE data on household incomes allows us to calculate the impact of decreased mobility on incomes. Delhi, for example, experienced a 50% decline in mobility on average between March and October 2020 and this was accompanied by a 39% loss in income. On average, we find that a 10% decline in mobility was associated with a 7.5% decline in income. This number is useful to keep in mind as states impose or contemplate imposing additional lockdowns.The pandemic’s economic impact was regressive in natureThe loss of work during the lockdown and after resulted in reduction of earnings for many and the complete evisceration of incomes for some, specifically, the poorest. The bottom 20% of households earned nothing in the months of April and May 2020. On the other hand, the top 10% suffered the least during the lockdown, and only lost about 20% of their February income during the lockdown months pointing towards the clearly regressive economic impact that the pandemic has had.Quality of jobs and incomes also deterioratedAs workers struggled to find work, many took recourse to less desirable fallback activities. Only 47% of salaried workers have been able to remain salaried over the course of the year. We reported similar trends in earlier months in these pages. Nearly 30% of formal salaried workers had to resort to self-employment and a further 10% have moved into daily wage work. This is unlike anything seen in normal times. Between 2018 and 2019, 80% of permanent salaried workers remained in the same employment arrangement.As a result of job losses and informalisation, incomes fell for all types of workers — salaried, casual and self-employed.This in turn increased food insecurity and indebtedness. Over 90% of respondents in a random survey carried out in Karnataka and Rajasthan reported having borrowed money sometime between April and August. The mean loan amount was Rs.26,300 and the majority borrowed from informal sources.The report also examines the reach and efficacy of government relief measures. As reported earlier in these pages, we find that even though PDS had a much wider reach than Jan Dhan accounts, the efficacy of the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana was similar for both, and around 40% of eligible households were excluded from the support.As India confronts the second wave and what is possibly its worst humanitarian crisis in recent years, urgent policy measures are needed to support an already beleaguered population.The extra PDS entitlements under PMGKY need to be extended till the end of the year. We recommend cash transfers of Rs.5,000 for three months to as many vulnerable households as can be reached with the existing digital infrastructure, including but not limited to Jan Dhan accounts. MGNREGS has played a vital role and its allocation needs to be expanded. A pilot urban employment programme analogous to it can be launched in the worst hit districts, possibly focused on women workers. And a Covid hardship allowance of ₹30,000 ( ₹5,000 per month for six months) should be announced for 2.5 million Anganwadi and ASHA workers who have been at the frontlines of the grassroots fight against the virus.These measures are important because the crisis has caused nutritional and educational deficits, as well as increased inequities in the labour market with the scarring effect of job loss on women and young workers. It is likely that many of these deficits will be faced disproportionately by the most vulnerable and poorest households.Rosa Abraham is a Senior Research Fellow at Centre for Sustainable Employment, Azim Premji University. State of Working India is a publication of the Centre for Sustainable Employment at Azim Premji University. The following contributed to the research discussed in this article: Amit Basole, Aishwarya Gawali, Anand Shirvastava, Mrinalini Jha, Surbhi Kesar, Rahul Lahoti, S. Nelson Mandela, and Paaritosh Nath.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-year-of-covid-and-the-way-forward-101620160471649.html
05-05-2021||India||26/11 Mumbai attacks’ key witness to be rendered homeless||Devika Rotawan, who at 10 was the youngest witness to identify terrorist Ajmal Kasab in the trial court in the 26/11 Mumbai attacks case, and her family are on the verge of being rendered homeless even as they await the state government’s response to a Bombay high court (HC) order for considering her plea for providing them a house.She said their landlord has asked them to vacate their house by May 10 amid the Covid-19 pandemic as he needs to move in. She said the lockdown imposed to check the second Covid-19 wave has made it impossible for them to look for another house and to shift at such short notice.“Last year, too, I was short on rent money and had to ask for help from acquaintances. The house owner is ready to waive the rent of three months which adds up to ₹30,000 but where will I go,” she said.Rotawan’s father does odd jobs and the family does not have any particular regular source of income. Rotawan’s mother had died long before the 26/11 attacks. Rotawan gave her final exams two days ago. Rotawan said they have nowhere to go and will be forced to live on a street or in front of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s house if they are forced to vacate their house.HC had last August ordered the government to decide on Rotawan’s plea for allotment of a house on compassionate grounds. Rotawan also sought HC directions to the government to fund her education. In October, the family sent documents to the office of the chief secretary following the HC order. They have since been waiting to hear from the state.In a tweet, Rotawan’s lawyer, Utsav Bains, urged minister Aaditya Thackeray to help the family. Bains said the family is facing a difficult situation due to the apathy of the Maharashtra government. “Despite a Bombay high court order directing it to consider her request on compassionate grounds, it is yet to make a decision. It is very unfortunate to see a terror attack eyewitness suffer so much due to government indifference. We will move the Bombay high court again,” said Bains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2611-mumbai-attacks-key-witness-to-be-rendered-homeless-101620157578656.html
05-05-2021||India||Karnataka HC suggests judicial probe into 24 deaths at Covid-19 hospitals||Bengaluru: Taking suo motu cognizance of the 24 deaths at two Covid-19 hospitals in a span of 24 hours allegedly due to shortage of oxygen, the Karnataka high court on Tuesday suggested a judicial probe by a retired judge into the matter. The court also put the Union government on notice, seeking an urgent response as to how they intend to fix the oxygen demand-supply gap.On Monday, 24 patients died in Chamarajanagar district, about 175km from Bengaluru, after a district government hospital reportedly ran out of oxygen. Terming the incident as “serious”, a division bench of Chief justice Abhay Oka and justice Aravind Kumar said: “Around 24 people died. Advocate general (Prabhuling Navdagi who was representing state government), we suggest there should be a judicial probe into the incident by a retired judge of the high court.” The court’s recommendation came even as Navdagi said the government had ordered an inquiry by an IAS officer into the incident and sought a report by Wednesday evening. The bench made the suggestion after it received two letters describing the poor facilities for Covid-19 patients across the state. After Navdagi informed the bench that Chamarajanagar hospital had made a requisition for 300 cylinders of oxygen, the bench said: “Is it not a fact that requisition was made for 300 cylinders, and it was not supplied? We are putting you (State) to notice that a retired judicial officer has to be appointed for conducting an inquiry in the incident.”During the hearing, advocate Clifton Rozario, a city based lawyer, told the bench that there was a shortage of oxygen in the city. “Yesterday (Monday), MEDAX hospital sent out an SOS on Twitter for supply of oxygen. Around 10 hospitals in Bengaluru sent SOS yesterday,” he said. The Centre’s counsel M N Kumar informed the high court that the allocation of oxygen was increased to 865 metric tonnes from 802 metric tonnes. The bench, however, put the Union government on notice, seeking an urgent response on how they intend to resolve the crisis. “What is your explanation? The requirement of the state is 1,467 metric tonnes and you have increased it only to 865 (metric tonnes). Mr Kumar, are you not aware that people have died in the state due to non-availability of oxygen,” the bench asked. “... we are putting you on notice. We want an answer from you whether you (Centre) will increase the cap on supply of oxygen to 1,700 metric tonnes. Let your officers know that there is an incident of people dying due to lack of oxygen. The state of Karnataka is recording the highest number of cases every day,” the bench said.After Kumar told the court that steps will be taken by the Centre considering the requirement of other states, the bench said: “Is there any other city in the country which is getting 20,000 Covid-19 cases every day?”. The bench added that the supply of oxygen has to be increased. “As of today (Tuesday), there is a shortfall of 900 metric tonnes per day of oxygen,” it said.The city on Tuesday reported 20,870 cases and 132 deaths, taking the overall tally to 301,712 and 6,845, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-hc-suggests-judicial-probe-into-24-deaths-at-covid-19-hospitals-101620155478534.html
05-05-2021||India||Vaccination slows down as demand outpaces supply||The Covid-19 vaccination drive has slowed down across the country over the past week — amid lockdowns and surging cases — as demand has spiked and the focus has shifted to starting the inoculation drive for those in the 18- 44 age group, according to several district and state health officials.Because of a shortage of vaccines, states such as Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Tamil Nadu are unclear on when they can start the vaccination for those below 45 years of age, and states such as Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand expect to start that exercise (referred to as Phase 3 of India’s vaccination drive) later this week.In Maharashtra, where a drive-in vaccination centre started on Tuesday in the Dadar area of the capital Mumbai, vaccination has slowed down, according to government data. Since May 1, the state has inoculated 304,574 beneficiaries, including some in the 18-44 age group, as compared to 242,000 vaccinations per day in the last 15 days of April. On April 26, the state inoculated a record 534,228 people in a day.“On Monday, we were left with only 25,000 to 30,000 doses from the Centre for people 45 years and above, and most vaccination centres had to be shut. Maharashtra has a capacity to vaccinate 800,000 beneficiaries a day. This afternoon, we have got around 900,000 doses of Covishield from the Centre, which will now be distributed across districts to resume the drive again,” said state health minister Rajesh Tope on Tuesday.The Bihar government on Monday placed an order for 1.18 million doses of Covishield and 412,000 doses of Covaxin before starting inoculation for roughly 55 million people between 18 and 44 years of age, an official said.The Centre has set a purchase rate of Rs.315 per dose for Covishield and Rs.420 per dose for Covaxin for states and Union territories. The vaccines are available for Rs.150 per dose to the Centre. “We are pursuing with the Serum Institute for the immediate dispatch of the vaccines, and it has assured us that the shipment will move on Wednesday,” said a Bihar government official who asked not to be named.Jharkhand, too, is yet to start vaccination for the 18-44 age group even as the state has gone slower on vaccination for people above 45 because it is getting fewer doses from the Centre. Jharkhand has an inoculation target of 15.7 million people who are below 45.Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Tuesday said the state will start a symbolic drive for the 18-44 age group from Wednesday now that it has received 150,000 doses of Covaxin from Bharat Biotech.Both Haryana and Punjab reported a drop in vaccination in the past few days as compared to the last fortnight of April due to supply constraints.According to government data from Rajasthan, vaccination slowed from 297,000 doses on April 20 to 225,000 doses on May 3, including people in 18-44 age group whose vaccination started from May 1.States such as Tamil Nadu and Kerala are yet to start vaccination for people below 45.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccination-slows-down-as-demand-outpaces-supply-101620154327018.html
05-05-2021||India||Setback for BJP in key areas in UP panchayat elections||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Tuesday suffered setbacks in its bastions of Ayodhya, Varanasi, Lucknow and Gorakhpur, and the Samajwadi Party inched ahead of the ruling party in the Uttar Pradesh rural body polls, the last major electoral exercise ahead of next year’s assembly elections.The BJP, which came to power in UP with a landslide in 2017, also lost panchayat seats in western Uttar Pradesh, where anti-incumbency and the ongoing farmer protests against three central agrarian laws dented the party’s fortunes.Trends and results available for 3,050 district panchayat wards on Tuesday evening showed SP at 760 wards, BJP at 719, Bahujan Samaj Party at 381 and Congress at 76. Independents and smaller parties secured victories or led in 1,114 wards.“The ruling BJP is a sinking ship. The results of the panchayat elections clearly show that BJP will face defeat in the 2022 assembly elections,” said SP chief Akhilesh Yadav.BJP state unit spokesperson Harish Chandra Srivastava said his party will secure victory on maximum wards due to the welfare schemes of the government.Independent candidates, majority of them rebels from various political parties, are likely to play a crucial role in the election of the district panchayat chairmen to be held later this month.The four-phase rural body elections, which began on April 16 and ended April 29, courted controversy because they were held amid a devastating surge in coronavirus infections and allegedly led to the deaths of at least 700 poll staff, a charge denied by the state government. The Allahabad high court even asked the state election commission (SEC) why action shouldn’t be taken for failing to stop rampant violations of Covid norms during campaigning. The counting of votes began Sunday morning at more than 825 centres across 75 districts. Over 869,000 posts were up for grabs, of which at least 732,000 were in gram panchayat wards, 58,176 in gram panchayats, 75,852 in block panchayats and 3,050 in district panchayats. A senior SEC official said counting of votes was likely to continue late into the night on Tuesday and refused to specify on how many seats counting was underway.Panchayat elections are not contested on party symbols but all parties have officially released names of the candidates backed by them. SEC has said results won’t be declared on party lines. In Varanasi, SP won 15 of 40 wards, BJP seven, BSP seven and Congress five wards so far. In Ayodhya, while SP won 24 of 40 wards, BJP won six and BSP won five wards. In Lucknow, SP won 10 of 25 wards, BJP won three and BSP secured five wards. The Congress failed to win any ward in the two regions. In Gorakhpur, SP won 19 of 68 wards, BJP won 20, BSP secured two and Congress won one ward so far.In 2015, SP had won majority of the wards followed by the BSP. The BJP had not contested in most of the wards.“The results are disappointing,” BJP’s district spokesperson Diwakar Singh told PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spmakes-gains-bjp-jolted-in-up-panchayat-polls-101620154099505.html
05-05-2021||India||‘Monumental loss’: Tributes pour in for J&K ex-Governor||The 1982 Asian Games is widely recognised as marking the emergence of the television boom in India. Politically, it was also one of the factors that made Jagmohan Malhotra, then serving his second term as Delhi’s Lieutenant Governor.Jagmohan -- he mostly went by one name -- was already a name and a face by then. In the mid-1970s, he was a controversial head of the Delhi Development Authority, and between 1975 and 1977, set out to improve the city’s looks under Sanjay Gandhi’s patronage.Controversy was a constant in the life of Jagmohan, who died in Delhi late on May 3.He was twice governor of Jammu & Kashmir, once for five years, and the second time, controversially, for five months. He remained as disliked by J&K’s mainstream politicians as he was admired by the Kashmiri Pandits, who believe he saved them by helping their escape from the Valley when calls went out for their extermination. Indeed, on Tuesday, tributes poured in from Jammu.All three Kashmir-based former chief ministers of the erstwhile state, Farooq Abdullah, Omar Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti, maintained a stoic silence. But the J&K administration has announced a three-day mourning from May 4 to 6 as a mark of respect to Jagmohan, who joined the BJP after his second, short stint as J&K governor (which came under the VP Singh government). It is believed that the government’s stand on J&K didn’t match his own; and even the Congress, with which he was associated for a decade-and-half, working closely with Indira, Sanjay and Rajiv Gandhi, didn’t approve of his muscular approach .Prime Minister Narendra Modi termed Jagmohan‘s death a “monumental loss for the nation”.Ajay Chrungoo, the leader of Panun Kashmir, a frontal organisation of Kashmiri Pandits, said, “At that time, he was the only person who elicited hope among Hindus displaced from Kashmir because of Pakistan-sponsored terrorism...”Vijai Kapoor, former LG of Delhi, said: “His two major contributions are large green spaces, which Delhi has today and large scale planned development.”Congress leader Ajay Maken remembered him as a “fierce administrator” and a “kind soul”.(Inputs from HTC in Delhi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monumental-loss-tributes-pour-in-for-j-k-exguv-101620153918387.html
05-05-2021||India||SOPs for Char Dham yatra out amid Covid-19 spike||Days after the Uttarakhand government postponed the annual Char Dham yatra, the Char Dham Management Board on Tuesday announced that only priests and so-called traditional right holders will be permitted inside the four shrines of Kedarnath, Badrinath, Gangotri and Yamunotri.Issuing a set of standard operating procedures (SOPs) in view of the surge of Covid-19, the government said the four shrines would open for daily prayers from 7am to 7pm after the opening of their respective portals. Officials had earlier said that the portals of the Yamunotri shrine would be opened on May 14 and that of Gangotri on May 15. Portals of Kedarnath and Badrinath shrines will be opened on May 17 and 18.“Only the priests and related traditional right holders will be allowed inside the shrines for daily puja while following all the Covid-19 guidelines like wearing masks, maintaining social distance and thermal screening,” the guidelines read.It is mandatory to carry negative Covid-19 reports while heading to any of these temples.The guidelines issued on Tuesday also stated that “those showing any kind of symptoms for Covid-19 won’t be allowed inside the temples.” Traditional right holders are members of the local priest community who have been associated with the management of Char Dham shrines for centuries. The SOP also prohibited touching of idols, bells or any kind of religious literature kept inside the temple.Burnt by its experience with the Mahakumbh, the state government last week postponed the pilgrimage, scheduled to start on May 14.The SOPs will come into force when the portals of these shrines open.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sops-for-char-dham-out-amid-covid-spike-101620153858419.html
05-05-2021||India||After key role in Ladakh, C-17s leading IAF’s Covid relief work||The Indian Air Force’s C-17 Globemaster III fleet, which played a crucial role in transporting soldiers and military equipment to eastern Ladakh last year when the border row with China was at its peak, is now at the centre of IAF’s efforts for Covid-19 relief, with eight such heavy-lift aircraft flying sorties regularly to international and domestic locations to help overcome a frightening shortage of oxygen, officials familiar with the developments said on Tuesday.The US-origin C-17s account for the bulk of the total flying hours clocked by IAF for Covid-related duties so far, said one of the officials cited above. A C-17 can carry a payload of almost 77 tonne. The fleet was used extensively to move soldiers, tanks and infantry combat vehicles to Ladakh last year to counter China’s military build-up in the sensitive sector. “The C-17s helped us mount a swift response to the Chinese actions. And now they have become the face of the IAF’s contribution to the national Covid response,” said a second official.The C-17 is the only aircraft currently being used to ferry containers from abroad.“Till date (May 4), the IAF has brought in 54 cryogenic oxygen containers and 900 oxygen cylinders from Singapore, Dubai, Bangkok, Frankfurt and Brize Norton in the United Kingdom, clocking over 140 hours of flying,” said IAF spokesperson Wing Commander Ashish Moghe. A C-17 on Tuesday transported a 37-tonne cargo of empty oxygen cylinders from Brize Norton to Chennai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-key-role-in-ladakh-c-17s-leading-iaf-s-covid-relief-work-101620153799898.html
05-05-2021||India||US lawmakers urge Joe Biden to ship AstraZeneca vaccines to India||A group of powerful US Democratic lawmakers have expressed frustration over the delay in the implementation of the Biden administration’s decision to release the country’s supply of unusable AstraZeneca vaccines to India and other countries that need them, and demanded their speedy delivery.“Time is of the essence. Without assistance from the United States, new vaccine-resistant mutations could arise across the globe, threatening international public health and the United States’ national security and economic prosperity,” four Democrats who head powerful congressional committees said in a joint letter to US Secretary of State Antony Blinken and Health Secretary Xavier Becerra.The signatories are Carolyn Maloney, chairperson of one of the most powerful of House committees, the oversight committee; James Clyburn, chair of the House select subcommittee on the Covid-19 crisis; Raja Krishnamoorthi, the Indian American chair of the House subcommittee on economic and consumer policy; and Stephen Lynch, chair of the House subcommittee on national security.AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccine, which is made and retailed in India as Covishield, is not approved for use in the US. More than 52% of eligible Americans — 147.5 million — have received at least one does of a vaccine approved in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-lawmakers-urge-biden-to-ship-astrazeneca-vaccines-to-india-101620153740216.html
05-05-2021||India||Top Central government officials attend session on boosting image, perception||Around 300 top officials of the central government participated in a workshop titled Effective Communications, conducted by Abhishek Singh, the CEO of MyGov, a government platform for citizen engagement, aimed at helping them “create a positive image of the government”, manage “perception through effectively highlighting positive stories and achievements”, and making the government “be seen to be sensitive, bold, quick, responsive, hard-working etc”, according to a presentation made at the event.The 90-minute-long virtual workshop, where Information & Broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar also spoke to the participants, comes against the backdrop of a surging second wave of Covid-19 infections and a faltering vaccination drive, with the Union government coming in for criticism for its handling of both. HT learns that the meeting, attended by several secretaries of the government, saw the minister emphasising the need to focus on positive news.The minister’s office did not respond to HT. This is the first time such a workshop was held.HT has reviewed a copy of the presentation and spoke to some of the officers who attended the workshop. Singh declined to comment. While much of the presentation deals with examples related to Covid-19, one slide also gave the example of how MyGov and the government sent out the right message about the three reformist farm laws.According to one officer who attended the workshop and spoke on condition of anonymity, the attendees, which included the joint secretary (media) of each department, were told that the traditional means of communication via Press Information Bureau (PIB) press releases “no longer worked’’. They were told to instead post photographs and videos that gained more impressions. As a case in point, Singh’s presentation dealt with the story that was widely reported on Monday about the Delhi high court asking the government why oxygen concentrators that had been received as aid from foreign countries were lying at airports. To illustrate their point, they showed how in response to a TV channel’s tweet showing the concentrators, the government and department of Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs responded with the factual position.“In today’s times, anything critical needs to be noted in minutes. If we wait for some news to break on TV or Print, we will lose the narrative then and there,” said the presentation. “Your role is important as you have access to the minister/ ministry and timely inputs can help ensure that the narrative is positive,’’ it added.A second officer who attended the meeting and also spoke on condition of anonymity said they were asked to find influencers who would tweet about getting the vaccine and look for interesting persons to connect with on sites such as LinkedIn. The presentation noted that the theme vaccine registration was the top social media hashtag some time back, with 70% engagement and mentions being neutral, 20% being negative and only 5% being positive. This, they were told, was an opportunity for the government’s officers to reach out to. “Some of the key themes they encouraged people to highlight were data about recoveries and amplifying any kind of positive stories that each department could get,’’ he said.The presentation also highlighted the best and worst ways of engaging on social media platforms , pointing out that speed of response, use of infographics, and clear messaging were the key.Former head of Press Information Bureau, Neelam Kapur, said, "I don't think communications can make up for action. Having worked in the health sector, I can see how an opportunity was lost in communicating the right message be it about masks or crowds. Messaging needed to be worked out much earlier."Image consultant Dilip Cherian, who works with governments on various campaigns, said, "Harnessing influencers is like using posh peddlers to push shoddy product. It ends up giving influencers a bad name. Worse, a burst of false positivity, becomes like a sudden boil on your nose when you've just worn fancy new clothes."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/officials-attend-session-on-boosting-image-perception-101620153678959.html
05-05-2021||India||Backlogs in RT-PCR tests: ICMR’s guidelines push antigen tests amid surge||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Tuesday issued a fresh Covid-19 testing advisory that recommends using more rapid antigen tests (RAT) in the wake of exponential surge in cases that has overwhelmed the country’s health care delivery system, and caused huge backlogs in the gold-standard RT-PCR tests. While ICMR is counting on more reliable new-generation RAT kits, if the tests end up being as inaccurate as the previous generation of RATs, they could artificially lower Covid-19 case numbers, and potentially create undiagnosed superspreaders. “The best public health action is to help people know about their status at the earliest, even if somebody is asymptomatic; and laboratories performing reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests are functioning to their full capacity. So, why should one wait for two to three days to get their confirmatory test result to come back?” asked Dr Samiran Panda, head, epidemiology and communicable disease, ICMR.To be sure, ICMR’s decision seems to be driven by two factors: new-generation RATs that are more accurate; and the fact that their use has always been recommended when time is a constraint (and in the current context, it is). If time is not a constraint, the use of RT-PCR tests is recommended because RATs tend to have a high proportion of false negatives, identifying infected people as uninfected. During the first wave, many states depended on RATs when they were constrained by testing capacity (not time), which is not recommended. “The companies try to come up with modified kits that are of higher sensitivity and specificity. The current RAT kits that have been evaluated by us, these have been tested to see how they perform in symptomatic individuals and asymptomatic individuals. And we found out that newer kits have improved sensitivity and specificity which means better performance than the earlier ones,” Dr Panda added. Much depends on the reliability of the tests, an expert said. “If they are so confident about the RAT kits that they have tested then they should have first published the data that’s peer-reviewed, as it would build confidence in people. It should be quality data and out in public domain,” said Jugal Kishore, head, community medicine, Safdarjung Hopsital.Indeed, if the new tests are not accurate, then it could end up identifying a lot of infected people as uninfected, resulting in more infections from those who come in contact with them; it could also make local administrations complacent and overall Covid-19 numbers unrepresentative by showing fewer cases than there really are. So far, ICMR has approved 36 RAT kits. It has also advised setting up of dedicated 24x7 RAT booths at multiple locations in cities towns and villages, including health care facilities, Resident Welfare Associations, offices, schools, colleges, and community centres to improve access to testing, and ensuring that positive cases are identified. States have also been asked to set up drive-through RAT testing facilities.The idea of the new testing protocol, different from the previous one which emphasised at least 70% of testing in any region to be RT-PCR (a message consistently reinforced by the health ministry and the Prime Minister) is to break the chain of transmission through early diagnosis, Dr Panda explained. Many people who go in for an RT-PCR test do not isolate while waiting for the results. “If you have something which will give you a test result in 15-20 minutes, and you know these test kits perform well on somebody who is symptomatic, and with home based care guidelines in place -- all of this will facilitate quick isolation, and help in cutting disease transmission,” he said.There are close to 2,500 RT-PCR testing labs approved by ICMR operational within the country with a testing capacity of about 1.5 million tests a day. Given the surging second wave of Covid-19, the country’s daily testing is in excess of 1.5 million, which means all labs are testing to their capacity.The advisory also mentions that laboratories are “facing challenges to meet the expected testing target due to extraordinary case load and staff getting infected with COVID-19”. In view of this situation, it added, “it is imperative to optimize the RTPCR testing and simultaneously increase the access and availability of testing to all citizens of the country.”The objective, Dr Panda said, at a time when the infection is spreading rapidly across India is “to identify positive people as quickly as possible, and help them with early management.” The advisory has done away with the need for RT-PCR test in healthy individuals undertaking inter-state domestic travel, to reduce the load on laboratories. Non-essential travel and interstate travel of symptomatic individuals (Covid-19 or flu-like symptoms) has been prohibited to reduce the risk of infection. The advisory also said that RT-PCR tests must not be repeated in any individual who has tested positive once either by RAT or RT-PCR. No testing is required for Covid-19 recovered individuals at the time of hospital discharge, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/backlogs-in-rt-pcr-tests-icmr-s-guidelines-push-antigen-tests-amid-surge-101620153678448.html
05-05-2021||India||‘On the way’: Centre to states awaiting Covid-19 supplies||As questions continued to swirl on Tuesday regarding allocation of oxygen-related equipment and supplies provided by other countries to back India’s Covid-19 response, the government said it had framed a standard operating procedure (SOP) for distribution of aid to states with higher number of active cases.Medical infrastructure of 38 institutions across 31 states, stretched thin because of an unprecedented surge in Coronavirus infections, was strengthened using supplies from around the world, the Centre said. The supplies have either reached the state or are on their way, it added.Officials in at least five of these 31 states listed in a statement issued by the Press Information Bureau (PIB) – Assam, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Uttarakhand and West Bengal – said they were yet to receive any of the foreign aid.It also emerged from the PIB’s statement that the SOP for distributing foreign aid materials was framed by the Union health ministry on May 2, whereas supplies procured from abroad under commercial contracts began entering the country on April 25 and aid from other countries started arriving from April 27.According to an official count, India has already received 1,656 oxygen concentrators, 965 ventilators, 1,782 oxygen cylinders, 17 large cylinders, 20 large oxygen concentrators, 150 bedside monitors, 480 BiPAPs, 20 high flow humidifying oxygen therapy devices, nine oxygen generation plants, 136,000 doses of Remdesivir, 200000 packs of Favipiravir and other supplies.The PIB statement said a total of almost 400,000 items across 24 categories had been distributed to the 38 institutions in different states. The major categories of equipment sent to the states included BiPAP machines, oxygen concentrators, cylinders, oxygen plants, pulse oximeters, drugs such as Favipiravir and Remdesivir, and personal protective equipment. The statement did not give specific break-ups of what each state had received.The government of Delhi, where several hospitals have witnessed repeated shortages of oxygen, said it hadn’t received any communication from the Centre about foreign aid. “We have not got anything from them as such. They are directly reaching out to hospitals instead of the state governments...,” said a government spokesperson.Four hospitals in Delhi received large oxygen generation plants from France as grants, and at least two – installed at the privately run BLK Hospital and Narayana Super Specialty Hospital – had started functioning. These plants are capable of producing 22 cubic metres of oxygen an hour, and provide about 20% additional oxygen back-up a day.Officials in Maharashtra’s health department said the state hasn’t received any of the foreign aid. “We have been getting medical materials regularly from the Centre. We received a stock of Remdesivir injections about a week ago, but it was not from the relief materials from other countries,” said an official from the public health department.“Uttarakhand has not received any foreign Covid-19 aid. And we are not aware of the Centre sending any of the supplies it has received from other countries to the state,” said JC Pandey, the state health department’s spokesman. State health minister Rajesh Tope said, “We would like to request the Central government to allocate maximum possible stocks to Maharashtra from the donations received from other countries.West Bengal’s health secretary NS Nigam too said no foreign aid had reached the state. “As of now, nothing. But there are indications that we may get some supplies, such as RT-PCR test kits soon,” he said.NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant, who heads a committee overseeing the distribution of foreign aid, dismissed media reports about delays in allocation of supplies. “There is a government-to-government approval. Allocations are done by the health ministry. Private donations are all tracked and every donor will know where the goods are going,” he said.A senior central government official, requesting anonymity, said: “The entire process is absolutely transparent, and is in addition to the support that the Central government is providing to states to manage the pandemic. The supplies are being closely monitored on a daily basis, and are directed to areas wherever there is a need for augmentation.”But as questions have persisted about the allocation of relief materials, some countries have begun specifying where their supplies should go. For instance, France specified that eight oxygen generation plants provided by it should be distributed among hospitals in Delhi, Haryana and Telangana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-the-way-centre-to-states-awaiting-covid-19-supplies-101620153619490.html
05-05-2021||India||UK, India vow enhanced trade ties, adopt 10-year road map||India and the UK on Tuesday launched an Enhanced Trade Partnership that envisages facilitating market access in specific sectors, and unveiled plans to finalise an interim trade deal by mid-2022 as a precursor to a free trade agreement.At a virtual summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his UK counterpart Boris Johnson, the two sides also set a target for doubling bilateral trade by 2030 and adopted the Roadmap 2030 to elevate ties to a comprehensive strategic partnership over the next decade.The Enhanced Trade Partnership, part of the UK’s efforts to ramp up trade ties with countries around the world following its exit from the European Union (EU), will see Britain open up its fisheries sector to more Indian players, facilitate more opportunities for nurses, recognise Indian seafarers’ certificates and enter into a joint dialogue on a social security agreement.In return, India lifted restrictions to enable British fruit producers to export their produce to the country and improved access for medical devices through the acceptance of the “UK Certificates of Free Sale”. The two sides will also work towards reciprocal opening up of legal services.“Had a productive Virtual Summit with my friend UK PM Boris Johnson. We adopted an ambitious Roadmap 2030 for elevating India-UK ties to a Comprehensive Strategic Partnership,” PM Modi tweeted.These actions are likely to generate some 25,000 new direct and indirect jobs in India, Sandeep Chakravorty, joint secretary (Europe West) in the external affairs ministry, told a news briefing.The virtual summit was held after Johnson cancelled a state visit to New Delhi twice because of the Covid-19 situation – first in January to focus on an outbreak in the UK and in April due to the second wave of infections in India. Ahead of the summit, Johnson announced a trade and investment package with India worth £1 billion, including a £240-million investment by the Serum Institute of India (SII) in the UK.Johnson informed Modi about SII’s investment and manufacture of vaccines in the UK, especially research on nasal vaccines, Chakravorty said. He noted SII is a multinational company that has a presence in the Netherlands and plans to manufacture vaccines in other countries.Following the launch of the Enhanced Trade Partnership, the two sides agreed to frame a roadmap for pre-free trade agreement (FTA) talks by end of this year, finalise an interim trade deal by early or mid-2022, and conclude talks for an FTA “at an early date”, Chakravorty said. Chakravorty described the launch of Roadmap 2030 as a “big deliverable” of the summit that is in line with the vision of the two leaders to elevate India-UK ties into a comprehensive strategic partnership.The roadmap lists several activities and initiatives to be pursued by the two sides in five key areas – trade and economy, defence and security, climate action, health and people-to-people contacts – over the next decade.The two countries also signed eight agreements, including a memorandum of understanding (MoU) on a migration and mobility partnership that will facilitate legal movement of students and professionals and strengthen cooperation in combating illegal migration. The MoU creates a new scheme under which up to 3,000 young Indian professionals can every year avail of employment opportunities in the UK for two years without being subject to a labour market test.The other agreements covered emerging technologies, digital infrastructure and data policies, cooperation in telecommunications and ICT, customs cooperation, and cooperation on medical products regulation.Modi and Johnson agreed to advance defence ties to a new level, with focus on maritime and industrial collaboration. They agreed to new cooperation on maritime domain awareness, including new agreements on maritime information-sharing. The UK was invited to join India’s naval information fusion centre and an exercise programme that includes tri-lateral exercises. India and the UK are also working to conclude a Logistics Memorandum of Understanding between their armed forces. They will build on existing collaboration on India’s future combat air engine requirement by working together on the indigenous development of the Light Combat Aircraft Mark 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-india-vow-enhanced-trade-ties-adopt-10-year-road-map-101620153499427.html
05-05-2021||India||Scientist Manas Bihari Verma, key man behind Tejas, dead||Padma Shri decorated aeronautical scientist Manas Bihari Verma, who played a key role in the development of the country’s first Light Combat Aircraft (LCA) ‘Tejas’, died of heart attack in Bihar’s Darbhanga district on Monday. He was 78.The scientist had closely worked with former president APJ Abdul Kalam. People close to Verma’s family said he died after suffering a massive heart attack at around 11.45 pm at his home at K M Tank locality of Laheriasarai in Darbhanga town.Expressing grief, Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar tweeted: “The demise of the famous scientist Padma Shri Manas Bihari Verma ji is very sad. His death has caused irreparable damage to the science world. The nation will always remember his contribution. May God grant peace to the departed soul.” “Verma was deeply involved in LCA project definition and under his guidance, the requirement of full-scale engineering development (FSED), phase-I activities, were achieved,” Narayan Jee Choudhary, a social activist and close associate of Dr Verma, said. Verma was awarded the Padma Shri in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scientist-manas-bihari-verma-key-man-behind-tejas-dead-101620128718211.html
05-05-2021||India||Zoos to be closed after 8 Asiatic lions test positive for Covid-19||Eight Asiatic lions at the Hyderabad zoo have tested positive for Covid-19, in the first such case in the country, prompting the Union environment ministry to order the closure of all national parks, sanctuaries and national zoological parks in the country.The government direction, issued on Tuesday, came a day after Hyderabad’s Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) confirmed the infection among the lions to the ministry’s wildlife division.“We had a video conference with CCMB officials yesterday (Monday) and they confirmed the diagnosis to us. The problem is we cannot collect throat or nasal swab samples from animals. So, most probably, we will put in place a method to collect scat samples. CCMB is devising that method and guidelines,” a senior forest official familiar with the matter said requesting anonymity.The official added that all wildlife wardens have been asked to be alert.“On April 24, the Hyderabad zoo gave samples of the eight lions -- collected from the nose, throat and respiratory tract under anaesthesia -- to CCMB after they showed signs of respiratory distress associated with Covid-19. Based on detailed tests and reports on Tuesday, it has now been confirmed that eight lions have tested positive for Sars-CoV-2 virus, which causes Covid-19,” the ministry said in a statement on Tuesday.The statement further said that an analysis of the samples confirmed that the infection was not caused by any Covid-19 variant of concern (VOC). It did not specify if genome sequencing had been carried out.According to the ministry, the eight lions have been isolated and all the lions are recovering after responding well to treatment. They are “behaving normally and eating well”, the ministry’s statement said.The ministry pointed out that the Central Zoo Authority has taken several pre-emptive measures, including sending guidelines and advisories to the zoos -- ranging from prevention to sample collection to detection in suspected cases to safety protocols for animal keepers -- in light of the surge in Covid-19 cases in recent weeks.According to the United States Centers for Disease Control (CDC) and Prevention, there is currently no evidence that animals play a significant role in spreading the coronavirus disease to humans. It said in an advisory on its website that more studies are needed to understand if and how different animals could be affected by Sars-CoV-2, and that Covid-19 can spread from people to animals in some situations, especially during close contact.“We know that Covid-19 can infect animals like cats. Last year, a tiger was infected in the Bronx Zoo (New York), possibly by interactions with an infected keeper. Infections rates in India are very high right now, and this makes the probability of spillover from humans to animals high. The best way to control this is to break the chain; test keepers and zoo staff regularly,” said Uma Ramakrishnan, an associate professor at Bengaluru’s National Centre for Biological Sciences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zoos-national-parks-shut-as-four-lions-test-positive-for-covid19-101620126257378.html
05-05-2021||India||No Covid vaccine for flying crew, we will stop work: AI pilots to management||The Air India Airbus pilots’ union has warned the management that they will stop work, if the airline fails to set up Covid-19 vaccination camps on a national level for flying crew in the 18-44 age group, on priority.In a letter written to the director of operations on Tuesday, Indian Commercial Pilots Association (ICPA) raised their concern about their flying crew not being vaccinated against Covid-19. Pointing out that many crew members have tested positive for Covid-19, ICPA said the flying crew has been risking its life during this pandemic.“If Air India fails to set up vaccination camps on a Pan-India basis for the flying crew above the age of 18 years on priority, we will “STOP WORK (sic),” the letter warned.They said those on desk jobs or could opt for working from home can get vaccinated, but not the flying crew, leaving them vulnerable.The letter read, ‘It is disheartening to witness the top management make a mockery of pilots discharging their duties in a risky environment. We were hoping that Air India would not let down the crew and their families who stand by the nation during this pandemic. We feel let down by the self-serving approach of the management, which sees no injustice in organising vaccine camps at few bases but excludes pilots.”ICPA pilots said that it is due to their unwavering support that Vande Bharat Mission (VBM) and relief operations have continued to run smoothly even in the face of a resurgence of even deadlier strains of Covid-19, only to get a discriminatory pay cut in return.The association said it is not in the position to risk lives of pilots flying without vaccination as there is no healthcare support or insurance, and a “massive opportunistic” pay cut.“Our finances are already spread thin covering our bedridden colleagues and provisioning for families lest we inadvertently infect them with the deadly virus that is an ever-present occupational hazard for us,” the letter concluded.Also Read | Covid-19: Air India to resume flights to UK from SaturdayIn an email response, the airline spokesperson’s said, “Air India is aware of an official communique from one of its unions sent to the Management.This is an entirely internal issue which is meant to be sorted out within the organisation. While we appreciate your keen interest on each and every issue related to Air India, we will not like to make any comment on an issue that, in any case, has no reason to be discussed in the external public domain.” The airline’s Boeing pilots, Indian Pilots Guild (IPG), were the first to write to the airline management on April 28. They had stated that it was disappointing to see the “inadequate” efforts been made to protect pilots’ well-being.The IPG letter read, ‘Despite the second wave choking the nation’s medical resources, not a single pilot has refused any flight sighting risk of infection as a reason. Several of our colleagues are being hospitalised at an alarming rate and are in critical need of oxygen...it is in the nature of our duty to be at risk of exposure to the virus. At the very least our company should leave no stone unturned to keep us safe.’ IPG too had warned the management to keep the aircrew on top priority, and that they would have to make decision in the interests of their pilots and their familiesThe airline however replied to the pilots on April 30, assuring them to conduct the vaccination drive from May 1. The letter accessed by the paper read, ‘..The Operations Department, in coordination with the Medical Department, will initiate the process of vaccinating all Operations staff. This includes Operations Ground staff, Dispatchers, Crew, both Cockpit and Cabin, above the age of 18 years. The logistics of venues and processes are being worked upon across the country as of now and the same will be communicated as soon as they are finalised..’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-covid-vaccine-for-flying-crew-we-will-stop-work-ai-pilots-to-management-101620123677243.html
05-05-2021||India||Restore MPLADS so that MPs can use it for Covid management: BSP MP to PM||Bahujan Samaj Party leader and Member of Parliament from Amroha, UP, Kunwar Danish Ali has asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to immediately restore the Member of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS) so that lawmakers can utilise it to provide immediate medical relief to people in their respective constituencies amid the second wave of Covid-19. MPLADS, which has been suspended for the past two years by the government which wanted to utilise them for Covid management and healthcare facilities, is a scheme under which each MP can suggest to the district collector works to the tune of ₹5 crore per annum in their constituency.In a letter to the PM on Monday, Ali said that the situation in his constituency [arising out of the pandemic] was “serious and prompt action was needed to resolve the crisis”. “The disease has spread from village to village in my constituency. But there is a huge shortage of medicines, beds, oxygen and other medical facilities necessary to deal with this disease. There is hardly any medical support to save precious lives… The district administration is expressing its helplessness in providing relief to my people” he said.Also Read | SC dismisses plea for return of MPLAD funds donated to PM CARESAli, who had donated a month’s salary to PM CARES fund last year, said that no notable medical facility had been provided in his constituency. “Because of this, the people of my constituency are facing great difficulties in this crisis of pandemic and are witnessing untimely death due to non-availability of basic medical infrastructure,” he wrote.Calling for decentralisation of healthcare provisions, he said that handing over MPLADS funds to public representatives who know their areas well would be an important step in enabling them to provide relief to the people of their respective constituencies.“As the situation created by Covid is catastrophic, I request you to immediately release the MPLADS funds to all the MPs that have been withheld for two years so that I and all other MPs could try to save the lives by setting up oxygen plants and provide relief to the victims in our parliamentary constituencies” he wrote.Reacting to Ali’s letter, BJP national spokesperson Gopal Agarwal said that government is committed to effective utilisation of all the funds. “The release of the MPLADS fund was suspended with an intent to use it for provision of healthcare services and that is how it is being utilised at the moment,” he said.Hindustan Times also tried to reach out to Rao Inderjit, minister of state for programme implementation, who also holds the independent charge of piloting the MPLAD scheme, and he responded a day later.Rao Inderjit responded on Wednesday that the budgetary outlay of MPLAD scheme for the last two years was allocated under finance ministry and these funds were already distributed among district authorities for health management.“MPs can thereby re-prioritise their earlier recommended works under the same,” he said in his letter to Ali.He added that expenditure for the completion of these recommended works is supposed to be met from these funds that have been made available with the district authorities. “This was done in pursuance of the decision of the Union cabinet taken on 6th April last year.” Inderjit wrote.He also confirmed that there was no proposal of the government to immediately release any pending instalments of MPLADS as in March this yea.Meanwhile, the district magistrate of Amroha, Ali’s constituency, claimed that the medical facilities there were at par with those of any other district. Umesh Mishra said 450 beds had been added for Covid-19 patients and there was no paucity of oxygen. He also shared that legislators gave their MLA fund for installation of oxygen plants and three of them have been installed by diverting corporate social responsibility funds. Amroha district has a population of over 1.8 million and has 1,133 villages in six blocks and 601 gram panchayats. (With inputs from S Raju in Meerut)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/restore-mplads-so-that-mps-can-use-it-for-covid-management-bsp-mp-to-pm-101620113836427.html
05-05-2021||India||Total lockdown only solution to stop Covid spread, says Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said on Tuesday that a complete lockdown was the only solution to stop the spread of Covid-19 along with the protection of minimum income guarantee scheme, NYAY, for the vulnerable sections.“GOI doesn’t get it. The only way to stop the spread of Corona now is a full lockdown- with the protection of NYAY for the vulnerable sections. GOI’s inaction is killing many innocent people,” Gandhi posted on Twitter.NYAY was the financial support scheme for the poor proposed by the Congress in its 2019 Lok Sabha election manifesto.He added: “I just want to make it clear that a lockdown is now the only option because of a complete lack of strategy by GOI. They allowed, rather, they actively helped the virus reach this stage where there’s no other way to stop it.”Gandhi’s suggestion came days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi told states to use the lockdown only as the last resort.In another tweet, the Congress leader maintained that the money allocated for the Central Vista project could be utilised to vaccinate 45 crore Indians.“Rs.13,450 crores for Central Vista. Or, for fully vaccinating 45 crore Indians. Or, for 1 crore oxygen cylinders. Or, to give 2 crore families NYAY of ₹6,000. But, PM’s ego is bigger than people’s lives,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-pushes-for-complete-lockdown-says-it-s-the-only-way-to-stop-covid-spread-101620109516255.html
05-05-2021||India||ICMR’s guidelines push antigen tests amid surge||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Tuesday issued a fresh Covid-19 testing advisory that recommends using more rapid antigen tests (RAT) in the wake of exponential surge in cases that has overwhelmed the country’s health care delivery system, and caused huge backlogs in the gold-standard RT-PCR tests. While ICMR is counting on more reliable new-generation RAT kits, if the tests end up being as inaccurate as the previous generation of RATs, they could artificially lower Covid-19 case numbers, and potentially create undiagnosed superspreaders.“The best public health action is to help people know about their status at the earliest, even if somebody is asymptomatic; and laboratories performing reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests are functioning to their full capacity. So, why should one wait for two to three days to get their confirmatory test result to come back?” asked Dr Samiran Panda, head, epidemiology and communicable disease, ICMR.To be sure, ICMR’s decision seems to be driven by two factors: new-generation RATs that are more accurate; and the fact that their use has always been recommended when time is a constraint (and in the current context, it is). If time is not a constraint, the use of RT-PCR tests is recommended because RATs tend to have a high proportion of false negatives, identifying infected people as uninfected. During the first wave, many states depended on RATs when they were constrained by testing capacity (not time), which is not recommended.“The companies try to come up with modified kits that are of higher sensitivity and specificity. The current RAT kits that have been evaluated by us, these have been tested to see how they perform in symptomatic individuals and asymptomatic individuals. And we found out that newer kits have improved sensitivity and specificity which means better performance than the earlier ones,” Dr Panda added.Much depends on the reliability of the tests, an expert said. “If they are so confident about the RAT kits that they have tested then they should have first published the data that’s peer-reviewed, as it would build confidence in people. It should be quality data and out in public domain,” said Jugal Kishore, head, community medicine, Safdarjung Hopsital.Indeed, if the new tests are not accurate, then it could end up identifying a lot of infected people as uninfected, resulting in more infections from those who come in contact with them; it could also make local administrations complacent and overall Covid-19 numbers unrepresentative by showing fewer cases than there really are.So far, ICMR has approved 36 RAT kits. It has also advised setting up of dedicated 24x7 RAT booths at multiple locations in cities towns and villages. States have also been asked to set up drive-through RAT testing facilities. The idea of the new protocol, different from the previous one which emphasised at least 70% of testing in any region to be RT-PCR (a message consistently reinforced by the health ministry and the PM) is to break the chain of transmission through early diagnosis, Dr Panda said.There are close to 2,500 RT-PCR testing labs with a testing capacity of about 1.5 million tests a day. Given the surging second wave of Covid-19, the country’s daily testing is in excess of 1.5 million, which means all labs are testing to their capacity.The advisory has done away with the need for RT-PCR test in healthy individuals undertaking inter-state domestic travel, to reduce the load on labs.It also said that RT-PCR tests must not be repeated in any individual who has tested positive once either by RAT or RT-PCR||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-comes-up-with-guidebook-to-counsel-covid-patients-healthcare-workers-101620102255793.html
