06-05-2021||India||Covid-19: Telangana CM rules out lockdown, says it cripples public life, economy||Telangana has no plans to impose a lockdown in the state as it will cripple public life as well as the economy, Chief Minister K Chandrashekhar Rao said on Thursday.He further said the past experience reveals that lockdown is not effective in controlling Covid-19.According to Rao, Telangana is the most happening state, about 25 to 30 lakh migrant labourers are earning their livelihood in the state and their lives were ruined during the first spell of lockdown in 2020."If these people (workers) are dislocated once again it will be a huge loss to the state as Telangana needs a huge number of workers during the harvesting season.What will happen to farmers (if they dont get labourers)? By imposing lockdown, the government itself would be creating havoc," an official release quoted Rao as saying.However, the state government will take preventive measures such as setting up micro level containment zones wherever the number of cases are high, it noted."Keeping in mind the past experiences, the state government has decided not to impose lockdown," it added.The CM appealed to people to be self disciplined and adhere to the Covid-19 rules to prevent the spread of the disease.Meanwhile, Rao spoke to Prime Minister Narendra Modi over phone seeking the allotted quota of antiviral drug remdesivir to be released to the state immediately.Rao said the state was receiving only 4,900 injections of remdesivir and the same has to be increased to 25,000.He also sought to enhance the oxygen supply to the state to 500 tonnes.Similarly, Telangana uses 2 to 2.5 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses per day and the supply of the antidote needs to be maintained from the Centre accordingly, he said.KCR also spoke to Union Minister Piyush Goyal, who assured him of necessary supplies to the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-telangana-cm-rules-out-lockdown-says-it-cripples-public-life-economy-101620324936725.html
06-05-2021||India||Suvendu Adhikari among first batch of Bengal MLAs sworn in today||Former Bengal minister Suvendu Adhikari, who joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in December last year and managed to make a dent in the electoral success of the Trinamool Congress (TMC) by defeating chief minister Mamata Banerjee at East Midnapore’s Nandigram seat, was sworn in as MLA at the state assembly on Thursday. The oath was read out by Adhikari’s former cabinet colleague Subrata Mukherjee, who acted as the protem speaker. As many as 140 TMC lawmakers were sworn in on Thursday. The remaining 73 will take their oath on Friday. Banerjee is yet to declare the names of her ministers. TMC leaders said once she takes her decision the ministers will be sworn in either on Sunday or Monday. The polls were held in 292 of Bengal’s 294 seats. Election for two seats in Murshidabad district will be held later as two candidates succumbed to Covid-19 in mid-April. Of the 77 BJP lawmakers, more than 40 were sworn in on Thursday. Manoj Tigga, the two-time BJP MLA from Madarihat in north Bengal said, “Our principal job as opposition leaders will be to raise our voices against atrocities and post-poll violence by TMC workers across the state.” Popular film director Raj Chakraborty, who bagged the Barrackpore seat for the TMC weeks after joining politics, said, “Our first job will be to control the Covid-19 pandemic. Politics comes later.” Adhikari took his oath around 3.45 pm. There was a commotion when his security personnel tried to push back reporters who surrounded him for his statement. Adhikari left in a hurry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suvendu-adhikari-among-first-batch-of-bengal-mlas-sworn-in-today-101620325313963.html
06-05-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccination drive: Cumulative coverage exceeds 164 million doses||In yet another achievement, India's cumulative vaccination coverage exceeded 16.48 crore doses till today. More than 2.62 lakh beneficiaries of age group 18-44 were inoculated on Thursday till 8 pm.The liberalised and accelerated Phase-3 Strategy of Covid-19 vaccination has come into force from May 1, 2021. Registration for the newly eligible population groups has commenced on April 28.The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country stands at 16,48,76,248 as per the 8 pm provisional report today.2,62,932 beneficiaries of the 18-44 age group received their first dose of Covid vaccine today and cumulatively 11,64,076 across 12 States/Union Territories (UT).The total of 16,48,76,248 administered doses includes 95,00,564 Healthcare Workers (HCWs) who have taken the first dose and 63,91,562 HCWs who have taken the second dose.Adding to the list, 1,37,58,487 Frontline Workers (FLWs) were administered with their first dose and 75,36,320 FLWs were administered their second jab.Mounting up, 11,64,076 persons between 18-44 years of age group were inoculated with their first dose.Further, 5,42,89,107 persons between 45-60 years were given their first jab and 53,44,986 persons between 45-60 years were given their second jab.Also, 5,33,18,278 persons above 60 years were given their first shot of vaccine and 1,35,72,868 persons above 60 years were given their second shot of vaccine.As on Day-111 of the vaccination drive (May 6, 2021), a total of 22,98,530 vaccine doses were given. 10,24,548 beneficiaries were vaccinated for first dose and 12,73,982 beneficiaries received second dose of vaccine as per the provisional report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccination-drive-cumulative-coverage-exceeds-164-million-doses-101620323658478.html
06-05-2021||India||India welcomes US support for waiving patent protections for Covid-19 vaccines||India on Thursday welcomed the US administration’s support for waiving patent protections for Covid-19 vaccines and expressed the hope that a waiver can be quickly approved at the World Trade Organization (WTO) through a consensus-based approach. US Trade Representative (USTR) Katherine Tai announced the Biden administration’s support on Wednesday following pressure from a group of 110 Democratic lawmakers. More than 100 countries have backed a proposal made by India and South Africa at the WTO last October for a waiver of intellectual property protections on Covid-19 vaccines. Prime Minister Narendra Modi personally raised the matter with US President Joe Biden during a phone call on April 26, and informed him about India’s initiative at the WTO that is aimed at countries around the world. “We welcome the statement of the US government of 5th May announcing their support for this initiative. We are hopeful that with a consensus-based approach, the waiver can be approved quickly at the WTO,” the external affairs ministry said in a statement. “The waiver is an important step for enabling rapid scaling up of manufacture and timely availability of affordable Covid-19 vaccines and essential medical products,” it said. India and South Africa proposed a relaxation in the norms of the WTO Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) on October 2 last year in view of the global health crisis and the need to combat the pandemic. The move was aimed at ensuring quick and affordable access to vaccines for developing countries. “As a result of proactive outreach by India and other like-minded countries, the proposal has received the support of more than 120 countries,” the statement said. The US move comes against the backdrop of a fresh push by India and South Africa at the WTO for the waiver of patent protections by presenting a revised text of last year’s proposal that is expected to highlight the urgent need for equitable and speedy access to vaccines following a second wave of Coronavirus infections in countries such as India. The revised proposal is also expected to state that patent protections for vaccines should be waived for a limited timeframe. USTR Tai said in a statement that the Biden administration believes strongly in intellectual property protections but “supports the waiver of those protections for Covid-19 vaccines” in order to end the pandemic. “This is a global health crisis, and the extraordinary circumstances of the Covid-19 pandemic call for extraordinary measures,” she said. The US will actively participate in text-based negotiations at the WTO to obtain the waiver. “Those negotiations will take time given the consensus-based nature of the institution and the complexity of the issues involved,” she said. With vaccine supply for the American people secured, the Biden administration will ramp up efforts by working with the private sector and all possible partners to expand vaccine manufacturing and distribution. It will also work to increase raw materials needed to produce vaccines, Tai said. The US position was also welcomed by UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres, whose spokesperson Stéphane Dujarric described the move as unprecedented. “It opens the opportunity for vaccine producers to share the knowledge and technology that will allow the effective expansion of locally-produced vaccines and can significantly increase the supply to the COVAX facility,” he said. However, the Biden administration’s decision has angered pharmaceutical companies, which have opposed any waiver on the grounds that it could hurt future innovation. They have also said the production of Covid-19 vaccines is a complex process that requires extensive capabilities and sophisticated technology, and can’t be ramped up simply by easing patent protections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-welcomes-us-support-for-waiving-patent-protections-for-covid-19-vaccines-101620322553675.html
06-05-2021||India||Odisha seeks GST exemption on Covid-19 vaccines||Seeking the active cooperation of the Centre in the fight against the pandemic, Odisha on Thursday demanded exemption of GST on the purchase of coronavirus vaccines and sought financial assistance to states from the cess and surcharge collected by the Union government from various products.Noting that states have been asked to purchase vaccines from their resources for inoculating people between the ages of 18 and 45, Patnaik said, these purchases attract the Goods and Service Taxes (GST), making the vaccines costly for the states. At present 5 per cent GST is charged for coronavirus vaccines.In a letter to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Patnaik wrote, "I hope the suggestions will be examined and urgent necessary action is taken in view of the emergency health situation in the country and to strengthen our unified fight against Covid."If vaccines are exempted from GST, it will reduce the cost on the part of the states and facilitate the drive towards universal vaccination, the chief minister said."In this long and sustained effort required to fight Covid-19, it is important that the states are supported so that the entire country fights as one. Lack of finance should not affect any state affecting the entire country in turn," he said.The Odisha chief minister also suggested that the additional resources raised through various cess and surcharges on petrol, diesel, liquor, and other items, which are exclusively available to the Union government, "maybe suitably shared with state governments at this critical juncture"."This will strengthen our fight against the pandemic including provision of vaccinations, free treatment, undertaking preventive measures, and so on," Patnaik said.Highlighting that India is going through a tough phase in fighting the pandemic, the chief minister said, "It is a war-like situation and all our resources should be focussed on winning this war against corona. This is not going to be a one-time battle, we will have a sustained challenge in this fight against Covid till serious advances are made in treatment and vaccination".In a related development, Patnaik sanctioned an additional amount of over ₹7.50 crore to Puri, Subarnapur, and Sambalpur districts from the Chief Ministers Relief Fund (CMRF) for Covid management.While an additional fund of ₹2 crore was sanctioned for Puri district, ₹1 crore has been sanctioned for Subarnapur district and ₹4.62 crore for Sambalpur district, the Chief Ministers Office said in a release on Thursday.Earlier, the Chief minister had released an amount of ₹14.59 crore for Puri district, ₹2.50 crore for Subarnapur district, and ₹11.50 crore for Sambalpur district to tackle the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-seeks-gst-exemption-on-covid-19-vaccines-101620318563863.html
06-05-2021||India||Oxygen Express ferries over 2,500 MT of load across India to battle Covid crisis||The Indian Railways has delivered 2,511 metric tonnes (MT) of liquid medical oxygen in 161 tankers to various states across the country, a statement released by the government on Thursday said.As many as 40 'Oxygen Express' were run by the Indian Railways so far, while 22 more tankers are on the run with more than 400 tonnes of oxygen to various destinations, such as Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan and Delhi.The Railways said till Thursday evening at least 174 MT of oxygen has offloaded in Maharashtra, 689 MT in Uttar Pradesh, 190 MT in Madhya Pradesh, 259 MT in Haryana, 123 MT in Telangana and 1053 MT in Delhi.The railways decided to run 'Oxygen Express' to transport liquid medical oxygen and oxygen cylinders late last month when the country reported acute shortage of medical oxygen amid a deadly second wave of coronavirus disease cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oxygen-express-ferries-over-2-500-mt-of-load-across-india-to-battle-covid-crisis-101620311820756.html
06-05-2021||India||30 of 45 people in Uttarakhand village test positive for Covid-19||Thirty out of 45 people living in a village in Pauri district tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, ringing alarm bells for the administration, which declared the gram sabha area a containment zone.All of them have been put in home-isolation, and samples of the rest of the residents of Bandun village in Jaiharikhal block are being collected for testing, Revenue Officer Sudha Dobhal said.The Bandun gram sabha has been declared a containment zone by the administration, she said.If the condition of any of the infected villagers worsens, they will be admitted to the district Covid care centre in Satpuli, Dobhal added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/30-of-45-people-in-uttarakhand-village-test-positive-for-covid19-101620317888206.html
06-05-2021||India||Army sets up special cell under 3-star general for Covid-19 relief||The Indian Army has set up a Covid-19 management cell under a three-star general to help civil authorities fight the pandemic ravaging the country, officials said on Thursday. The cell is headed by the Director General of Operational Logistics and Strategic Movement, said one of the officials. The three-star officer overseeing army’s assistance to the civil authorities reports directly to the vice chief. “In order to coordinate multiple facets of staffing and logistics support, an exclusive Covid management cell under a director general rank officer has been established which reports directly to the vice chief of army staff,” the army said in a statement. The armed forces and other wings of the defence ministry have been at the centre of national efforts to battle Covid-19. They have set up Covid-19 hospitals, ramped up oxygen production and airlifted medical staff and oxygen containers and liaised with state governments to help deal with the rising number of Covid-19 cases. “While the army has ensured own force preservation and medical care to veterans and their dependents, it has also deployed considerable medical resources to assist civil authorities especially at the five Covid-19 hospitals already functional or in the process of being established at Delhi, Ahmedabad, Lucknow, Varanasi and Patna,” the statement said. The army said the new Covid-19 management cell will bring in greater efficiency in coordinating real-time responses to address the exponential rise in Covid-19 cases across the country including Delhi. The military is also marshalling around 600 retired doctors to help fight the outbreak amidst its unrelenting spread. These military doctors retired during the last few years. Defence minister Rajnath Singh is regularly reviewing the efforts of his ministry and the armed forces to support the civilian administration in the fight against the crisis.Rajnath Singh on Thursday said on Twitter that the whole government machinery has swung into action by mobilising all possible resources, giving details of the steps taken by the armed forces to help fight the crisis. “’Jal’, ‘Thal’ and ‘Nabh’...our armed forces have left no stone unturned in strengthening the fight against Covid-19,” PM Narendra Modi said on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-sets-up-special-cell-under-3-star-general-for-covid-19-relief-101620318173517.html
06-05-2021||India||Calcutta HC directs Centre to take instructions about Covid-19 vaccine supply to West Bengal||The Calcutta high court on Thursday directed the Centre to take necessary instructions about the supply of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine to West Bengal. The bench of acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice A Banerjee was responding to a public interest litigation PIL filed by a doctor, reported news agency ANI.The next hearing in the matter is scheduled for May 10.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi a day before, requesting him to ensure adequate supply of Covid-19 vaccines and other essentials like medical oxygen, Remdesivir and Tocilizumab. Banerjee also requested the Prime Minister for free Covid-19 vaccination for all citizens of the state.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19"I am again writing to you on the issue of Covid considering the huge proportion that several aspects of its management including ensuring adequate vaccines, number of hospital beds, medicines, oxygen for all patients have assumed in the country. At the very outset, I would again like to emphasize free vaccination for all. You may kindly recall my letter of February 24, 2021, wherein I had requested you to allow the Government of West Bengal to procure vaccines from designated points for providing vaccination to people of the state free of cost. This has not yet been addressed," Banerjee wrote in her letter to PM Modi on Wednesday.The newly sworn chief minister also fired a fresh salvo on the BJP-led central government for not providing funds for vaccines and constructing new Parliament buildings and statues. Banerjee referred to the construction of Central Vista project with a total estimated cost of ₹13,450 crore."Why are they not allotting ₹30,000 crores for vaccines when they are making new Parliament and statues, spending ₹20,000. Where is the PM CARES Fund? Why are they risking the lives of young people? Their leaders should visit Covid hospitals, instead of going places. Their leaders are coming and spreading Covid," ANI quoted Banerjee as saying.Also read | ‘Need to accept people’s mandate and stop spreading Covid’: Mamata tells BJPWest Bengal is among the nine states that made up for more than 72 per cent of 412,262 new Covid-19 infections reported in the last 24 hours.So far, the state has consumed a total of 11,633,588 Covid-19 vaccines including wastage. West Bengal currently has a balance of nearly 250,000 vaccine doses and 200,000 doses are in pipeline as of Wednesday morning, according to the Union health ministry's data on vaccine distribution to the states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/calcutta-hc-directs-centre-to-take-instructions-about-covid-19-vaccine-supply-to-west-bengal-101620310588317.html
06-05-2021||India||Bengal CID begins probe into Sitalkuchi firing that left 4 dead on April 10||West Bengal’s Criminal Investigation Department has started an investigation into the incident in which four people were shot dead by central forces at Sitalkuchi in Cooch Behar district on April 10, when the fourth phase of assembly polls were going on in West Bengal. This comes a day after Mamata Banerjee took charge as the chief minister. Banerjee had earlier promised a probe into the incident. “CID enquiry is going on. I can share details only after the CID submits its report. I am sure some mischief was there. We will take proper action against the culprits,” said Mamata Banerjee, chief minister of West Bengal. In all, five people were killed at Sitalkuchi in two separate incidents on April 10. In the first incident an 18-year-old first-time voter was shot dead by miscreants, while in the other central forces shot dead four people allegedly in self-defence.The incident had drawn protests and criticism from the ruling TMC. The Election Commission, however, had said that that the security forces had to open fire in self-defence. The BJP had referred to the firing incident multiple times to issue veiled threats against the TMC during the poll campaign. The CID has formed a Special Investigation Team and on Thursday the investigating officer of the case was questioned for more than three hours. The officer-in-charge of the police station is likely to be questioned next week. The Superintendent of Police of Cooch Behar Debasish Dhar was suspended on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-cid-begins-probe-into-sitalkuchi-firing-that-left-4-dead-on-april-10-101620315833402.html
06-05-2021||India||PM Modi speaks to 4 chief ministers to take stock of Covid-19 situation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday spoke to chief ministers of four states, including Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and Jharkhand to take stock of the situation pertaining to coronavirus disease.He also called up the lieutenant governors of Puducherry & Jammu & Kashmir to evaluate the coronavirus crisis in their Union territories.Modi reviewed the progress of vaccination and the roadmap for scaling up production of vaccines in the next few months, the PMO had said.According to the latest data from the Union ministry of health and familty welfare ministry, Andhra Pradesh is among the 10 states and Union territories accounting for over 70% of daily coronavirus cases reported in the country. The rest of the states in the list are Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Karnataka, Kerala, Haryana, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Rajasthan.Andhra Pradesh on Thursday reported more than 20,000 new cases of coronavirus in the last 24 hours.Odisha, on the other hand, saw its daily tally of coronavirus cases crossing the five-lakh mark on Thursday with 10,521 fresh cases -- the highest so far in a single day -- pushing the tally to 500,162, while 17 fresh fatalities raised the toll to 2,121.Jharkhand reported 141 new fatalities taking the death toll to 3,346, while 5,770 new positive cases pushed the state's tally to 2,63,115.Telangana reported 6,026 fresh COVID-19 cases taking the tally to over 4.75 lakh while the death toll stood at 2,579 with 52 more casualties.The Union territory of Puducherry logged 1,510 fresh cases during the last 24 hours taking the overall tally to 66,627.Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday recorded the highest-ever single-day spike of 4,926 coronavirus disease cases and 52 related deaths. The administration has imposed a curfew in four districts of Srinagar, Jammu, Baramulla and Budgam from April 29 till May 10.The overall cases in the Union territory crossed 2 lakh to reach 2,01,511 while the total fatalities from the disease stand at 2,562.Earlier in the day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi undertook a “comprehensive” review meeting of the ongoing Covid-19 crisis where he was briefed about districts with high burden of cases.India logged a record high of 412,262 new coronavirus infection cases -- the highest single-day surge in the world -- and 3,980 related deaths in the previous 24 hours, data updated by the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Thursday showed. The country’s cumulative infection tally stands at 21,077,410, including 17,280,844 recoveries, 3,566,398 active cases and 230,168 deaths.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-speaks-to-4-chief-ministers-to-take-stock-of-covid-19-situation-101620314652402.html
06-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Mamata Banerjee blames BJP for spreading Covid in Bengal and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Need to accept people’s mandate and stop spreading Covid’: Mamata tells BJPWest Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee blamed the Bharatiya Janata Party leaders and Union ministers directly for spreading coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the state. She also asked the BJP leaders to “stop provoking” the people of Bengal and accept the mandate of the people. Read moreJammu and Kashmir separatist leader Ashraf Sehrai buried at native villageJammu and Kashmir separatist leader Ashraf Sehrai was buried at his native village in Jammu Kashmir’s Kupwara amid tight security early on Thursday. Only close relatives were allowed to participate in the funeral at Tekipora Lolab in Kupwara, his native village. Read morePfizer-BioNTech can supply 3 billion Covid-19 vaccine doses this yearPfizer Inc. and BioNTech SE have capacity to make as many as 3 billion doses of their Covid-19 vaccine this year, more than double the amount the partners had predicted less than six months ago. Read moreIPL 2021: 'He contributed in every match' - Saba Karim names young India batsman who 'impressed him the most'Prithvi Shaw had a forgettable 2020. In the Indian Premier League UAE edition, Shaw struggled to find any consistency and found himself not making it into the Delhi Capitals playing XI on several occasions. Read moreSussanne Khan reacts to Arslan Goni breaking chair while getting Covid-19 shot. WatchEven though fans don't have the full picture about Sussanne Khan and Arslan Goni's personal equation, their social media interactions are ramping up. Arslan, the brother of Bigg Boss 14 contestant Aly Goni, on Thursday shared a video of himself getting the Covid-19 vaccine, and the chair he was sitting on breaking. Read moreMumbai Police’s advisory post on wearing double masks has a Sholay twistMumbai Police’s creative social media posts addressing various matters are quite popular among netizens. Their recent share about the necessity to wear double masks is a perfect addition to those posts. Read more Watch| ‘Union Ministers instigating people’: CM Mamata’s retort to BJP over violence﻿||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-mamata-banerjee-blames-bjp-for-spreading-covid-in-bengal-101620313919932.html
06-05-2021||India||Developers of single shot Sputnik Light vaccine say it will be produced in India||The developers of Russia’s Sputnik Light Covid-19 vaccine, the single shot version of Sputnik V, said on Thursday that India will be among the countries where the new variant will be produced in the coming months. Russia’s health ministry and Gamaleya National Research Center of Epidemiology and Microbiology and the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), the developers of the vaccine, announced on Wednesday that Sputnik Light had received authorisation for use in Russia. Sputnik Light demonstrated 79.4% efficacy, according to an analysis of data gathered 28 days after the shot was administered as part of Russia’s mass vaccination programme between December 2020 and April 2021, the vaccine’s developers said in a statement. Gamaleya Center had also demonstrated during laboratory tests that Sputnik Light had proven effective against all new strains of the coronavirus, the statement said. Phase I and II of the safety and immunogenicity study of Sputnik Light had demonstrated that it can elicit the development of antigen specific IgG antibodies in 96.9% of individuals on the 28th day after vaccination, and that elicits the development of virus neutralising antibodies in 91.67% of individuals on the 28th day after immunisation. No serious adverse events were registered after vaccination with Sputnik Light, the statement said. The infection rate among vaccinated subjects from the 28th day from the date of the injection was 0.277%. Over the same period, the infection rate among unvaccinated adults was 1.349%. The Phase III clinical study involving 7,000 people was conducted in multiple countries, including Russia, the UAE and Ghana. The interim results are expected in May. RDIF CEO Kirill Dmitriev told a news briefing that Sputnik Light could be a “key solution for many countries with viral surges” as it had resulted in “100% protection against severe infections”. “Sputnik V will be the core vaccine while Sputnik Light will be cheaper and more affordable, and ensure that more people can be vaccinated quickly. Sputnik Light will be registered in several countries by next week and we are talks with regulators in several countries,” he said. “We hope that the 64 countries that have registered Sputnik V will also register Sputnik Light,” he added. Dmitriev named India, South Korea and China among the countries that will produce Sputnik Light. “We have partnerships with more than 20 producers in 10 countries and they will make both versions of the vaccine,” he said. He said Sputnik Light works well with all existing mutations of the Coronavirus as it “includes all the mutations in its code”. Sputnik Light can also be used as a booster shot for other vaccines and trials are currently underway with AstraZeneca, he said. “Sputnik Light makes a greater booster shot with other vaccines. We are doing trials with AstraZeneca but it can also be used with others. It can be a booster shot to upgrade other vaccines for all mutations, subject to additional trials,” Dmitriev said. “Regardless of politics, all countries should come together to fight the virus. It is now a fight between mutations and vaccines,” he said. The cost of Sputnik Light globally will be less than $10, and it has simple storage requirements, at +2 +8, which provide for easy logistics, the statement said. The developers of Sputnik V, which has been granted approval for emergency use by India’s drug controller, have tied up with Indian pharmaceutical firms such as Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, Gland Pharma, Hetero Biopharma, Panacea Biotec, Stelis Biopharma and Virchow Biotech to manufacture more than 850 million doses a year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/developers-of-single-shot-sputnik-light-vaccine-say-it-will-be-produced-in-india-101620313613710.html
06-05-2021||India||Northern Railways cancels premium trains due to Covid-19 surge, 'low patronisation'||The Northern Railways on Thursday cancelled a slew of Rajdhani, Shatabdi and Duronto Express', stating low patronisation and rising coronavirus cases as the reason behind the decision.The to-and-fro services of eight Shatabdi Express, two Rajdhani Express, two Duronto Express and one Vande Bharat Express are among around 28 trains that have been cancelled "till further advice" by the Northern Railways.Among these are Shatabdis originating from Delhi to places like Kalka, Habibganj, Amritsar, Chandigarh, Rajdhani trains from Delhi to Chennai, Bilaspur, Duronto trains to Jammu Tawi and Pune.Poor patronisation of once popular trains also indicates that a lesser number of people are travelling amidst the surge in coronavirus cases, officials said."The Northern Railways has decided to cancel the following special trains due to poor patronisation and a surge in COVID-19," a NR spokesperson said.The Central Railways has cancelled 23 passenger trains. These include Nagpur-Kolhapur special up to June 29, the CSMT-Kolhapur special up to July 1, the CSMT-Pune special up to June 30.Coronavirus cases and deaths in India hit a record daily high with 4,12,262 new infections and 3,980 fatalities being reported, taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 2,10,77,410 and the death toll to 2,30,168, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday.Registering a steady increase, the active cases have increased to 35,66,398 comprising 16.92 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has dropped to 81.99 per cent, the data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/northern-railways-cancels-premium-trains-due-to-covid-19-surge-low-patronisation-101620312001294.html
06-05-2021||India||Gilead to ship another 50,000 vials of Remdesivir in next few days||US pharma major Gilead Sciences’ one more shipment of 50,000 vials of its antiviral drug, Remdesivir, is likely to reach India in the next couple of days, people aware of the matter said. The injection Remdesivir has emergency use authorization in India, and is also a part of India’s national clinical treatment protocol for the Coronavirus disease. “Around 1,50,000 doses were already shipped a few days back to Mumbai, and another consignment of about 50,000 vials (2 consignments of 25k each) is about to land in another couple of days,” said the person, on condition of anonymity. With the sudden surge in Covid-19 cases, India faced acute shortage of the antiviral drug, and to meet the sudden increased demand, Gilead Sciences that holds the patent for the drug, announced that it was donating 4,50,000 vials of the injection to the Indian government till the domestic production was scaled up. The company has partnered with KlinEra Global Services that holds market approval and import licence of the antiviral drug in India, making them the authorized distributor partner of Gilead in India. The donations come at a zero cost to the Indian government. “The scaling up takes time—at least three to four weeks— which is why the company decided to bridge the gap by making supplies in the interim period,” the person said. Apart from donating vials, the company also announced that it will be providing its voluntary licensing partners with technical assistance, to rapidly scale up production in the wake of the exponential surge in cases. “The recent surge of Covid-19 cases in India is having a devastating impact on communities and has created unprecedented pressure on health systems,” Johanna Mercier, chief commercial officer, Gilead Sciences, had said earlier. “We are committed to doing our part to help tackle this crisis. Our immediate focus is to help address the needs of patients in India who may benefit from Remdesivir as quickly as we can by working together with the government, health authorities and our voluntary licensees.” Gilead Sciences holds the patent for Remdesivir that is one of the investigational drugs prescribed under restricted emergency use in treating Covid-19 patients in India and globally. Remdesivir has broad-spectrum antiviral activity both in vitro (test-tube), and in vivo (living beings) in animal models against multiple emerging viral pathogens, including Ebola, SARS, Marburg, MERS and SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. Gilead Sciences has seven licensing partners based in India, and all seven of the licensees have significantly accelerated production of Remdesivir by scaling up their batch sizes, adding new manufacturing facilities and/or onboarding local contract manufacturers across the country. Experts in India, however, have been reiterating that the drug is no magic bullet, and one of the many investigational therapies recommended for use in Covid-19 patients. “The drug hasn’t shown any mortality benefit in Covid-19 patients but in a US study it showed reduction in hospitalisation time by a few days,” said Dr Randeep Guleria, director, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi, who is also a senior pulmonologist in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gilead-to-ship-another-50-000-vials-of-remdesivir-in-next-few-days-101620311392927.html
06-05-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir separatist leader Ashraf Sehrai buried at native village||Jammu and Kashmir separatist leader Ashraf Sehrai was buried at his native village in Jammu Kashmir’s Kupwara amid tight security early on Thursday. Only close relatives were allowed to participate in the funeral at Tekipora Lolab in Kupwara, his native village.Jailed Tehreek-e Hurriyat chairman died in Jammu Government Medical hospital on Wednesday afternoon and his body was handed over to relatives in the evening after a post-mortem. Police said Sehrai had tested Covid positive in a RT-PCR test report, which came after his death. He had earlier tested negative in a rapid antigen test. PTI quoted officials claiming he had Covid-19 symptoms and his oxygen levels had fallen.From Jammu, the body of Hurriyat leader was directly taken to Tekipora for burial. Inspector General of Police (IGP) Kashmir, Vijay Kumar said Sehrai’s funeral was done as per Covid protocol in presence of his family members.Sehrai, 77, a close confidant of hardliner Hurriyat Conference leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani, was incarcerated at the district jail in Udhampur since July 13, 2020 under the Public Safety Act. He complained of breathlessness on Tuesday and was taken to the district hospital before being shifted to Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Jammu, after his health deteriorated, said officials.He was the incumbent chairperson of Tehreek-e-Hurriyat having replaced Geelani in 2018. Sehrai was one of those detained during ahead of the revocation of special status to Jammu and Kashmir and its bifurcation into two union territories in August 2019. He was finally arrested under the PSA from his Barzaulla residence in Srinagar in July last year.The All Parties Hurriyat Conference claimed Sehrai, suffering from multiple ailments, was left unattended despite requests by his family for medical attention. However, officials rejected the allegations as “baseless”, saying he was taken to hospital after he complained of health issues.Last year, Sehrai’s son Junaid, joined the Hizbul Mujahideen terror outfit and was killed in an encounter in the old city. Meanwhile, the Kashmir Bar Association questioned the circumstance of the separatist leader’s death.“Sehrai was detained under PSA last year and his habeas corpus petition is still pending disposal before the J&K high court at Srinagar. The council for Sehrai had filed three applications before the court for shifting him from Jammu jail, hospitalisation owing to ill serious heart ailment and meeting with the family members,” the bar association said in a statement.Leaders of almost all mainstream political parties in Kashmir expressed condolence over Sehrai’s death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-and-kashmir-separatist-leader-ashraf-sehrai-buried-at-native-village-101620309892885.html
06-05-2021||India||Rangasamy to be sworn in as Puducherry CM on May 7||AINRC Chief N Rangasamy will be sworn in as Chief Minister of Union Territory of Puducherry at a brief ceremony here on Friday. Lt Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan would induct Rangasamy as Chief Minister at a brief session on the precincts of Rajnivas here. Official sources said Rangasamy alone would be inducted as Chief Minister tomorrow although he would be heading an NDA dispensation which has the BJP as the other constituent. According to party sources, the swearing in of other ministers, including those from BJP will take place in the next few days. Usually, the strength of a ministry in Puducherry would be six including Chief Minister. There is however a reported move to have one Deputy Chief Minister now although there is no precedent in this regard. A Namassivayam, who joined the BJP in January after quitting the Congress is tipped for the post of Deputy Chief Minister. The concurrence of the Centre is awaited for the appointment of Deputy Chief Minister, BJP sources said. The AINRC bagged 10 seats out of the 16 it contested in the April 6 polls while the BJP garnered six out of the nine seats it contested. The total strength of the Assembly is 30 and sixteen is the magic number for formation of a ministry. The AINRC and BJP has a combined strength of 16. There are six independents elected to the House and they are by and large supporters of Rangasamy. The DMK has emerged victorious from six segments out of 13 seats it contested. The Congress fared poorly by annexing only two out of the 14 seats it contested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rangasamy-to-be-sworn-in-as-puducherry-cm-on-may-7-101620304767381.html
06-05-2021||India||IMD forecasts thunderstorms with moderate to heavy rain in Delhi, adjoining areas||The weather in the northern plains of India changed Thursday evening with dust storms and thunderstorms occurring at various places in states like Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Haryana and Delhi. The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) said thunderstorms and dust storms would occur with moderate to heavy intensity rain and gusty wind speed 30-60 km per hour in many places of Delhi, Sadulpur, Bharatpur, Bhadra, Adampur (Rajasthan), Nuh, Sohna, Aurangabad, Palwal, Bhiwadi, Rewari, Manesar.Also read: This April was cooler than usual for Mumbai, says IMD"Thunderstorm/ dust storm with moderate to heavy intensity rain with gusty wind speed 30-60 kmph would occur over of many places of Entire Delhi, Sadulpur, Bharatpur, Bhadra, Adampur (Rajasthan), Nuh, Sohna, Aurangabad, Palwal, Bhiwadi, Rewari, Manesar," the meteorolgical department said.Thunderstorms and dust storms are also forecasted in Gurugram, Farukhnagar, Hodal, Siwani, Tosham, Fatehabad, Hissar, Panipat, Jind, Bawal, Bhiwani, Rohtak, Narwana, Charkhidadri, Jhajjar, Faridabad, Ballabhgarh, Gohana, Gannur, Kharkhoda, Sonipat, Kaithal, Kurukshetra (Haryana) Barsana, Mathura, Agra,Tundla, Raya, Bagpat, Barot, as per the IMD.06/05/2021: 16:20 IST; Thunderstorm/ Duststorm with moderate to heavy intensity rain with gusty wind speed 30-60 kmph would occur over of many places of Entire Delhi, Sadulpur, Bharatpur, Bhadra, Adampur (Rajasthan), Nuh, Sohna, Aurangabad, Palwal, Bhiwadi, Rewari, Manesar,IMD projected the changed weather conditions for parts of Uttar Pradesh as well. It forecasted the duststorms/thunderstorms with moderate or intense rain at Noida, Modinagar, Dadri, Gulaoti,Hapur, Jattari, Hathras, Aligarh,Hathras, Etah, Kasganj, Atrauli, Bulandshahar, Meerut, Siyana, Garmukteshr, Khatoli, Bahjoi, Shamli, Muzaffarnagar, and adjoining areas during the next two hours. While, it forecasted hail precipitation at Kharkhoda during the next one hour.Also read| Delivered 3,000 concentrators received as international aid to hospitals: Centre"Noida, Modinagar, Dadri, Gulaoti,Hapur, Jattari, Hathras, Aligarh,Hathras, Etah, Kasganj, Atrauli, Bulandshahar, Meerut, Siyana, Garmukteshr, Khatoli, Bahjoi, Shamli, Muzaffarnagar, and adjoining areas during the next 2 hours. Hail precipitation at Kharkhoda during next one hour," IMD said in a tweet.Earlier in the day, the department anticipated cloudy skies with the possibility of light rain or drizzle during the day.It was a slight relief from the heat for the national capital as it recorded a warm morning with a minimum temperature at 26.2 degrees Celsius, which was two notches above the average temperature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-forecasts-thunderstorms-with-moderate-to-heavy-rain-in-delhi-adjoining-areas-101620301719468.html
06-05-2021||India||Elephant kills villager in Bengal’s Murshidabad district||A 26-year-old man at Chandor village in Bengal’s Murshidabad district was killed by a wild elephant on Thursday morning. This is the first such incident of an elephant attack in Murshidabad in recent years. The victim was identified as Rajkumar Tori, a labourer. He was killed near the Bagdapara deer forest, not far from his home. Local gram panchayat member Tinku Lakra said, “Tori is survived by his mother, wife and a six-month-old son.” “Villagers spotted a herd of five elephants a few days ago. The herd apparently came from Jharkhand. One of the elephants left the herd and entered our village,” Lakra said. Forest department officers visited the spot. The villager was rushed to the Beniagram Hospital where he was pronounced dead on arrival.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elephant-kills-villager-in-bengal-s-murshidabad-district-101620304732576.html
06-05-2021||India||Armed forces fight the 'invisible army' as Covid-19 threatens India||The armed forces have waged a war against the spiralling crisis of the deadly second wave of the coronavirus disease in India, calling it an “invisible, yet deadly army”.The Army has mobilised its resources to set up new facilities to treat patients suffering from coronavirus, while the Indian Air Force has deployed its transport aircraft Navy’s ships to provide logistic support to facilitate the supply of oxygen and ferrying medical equipment from foreign countries.Union defence minister Rajnath Singh recently directed the armed forces to extend help to the civil administration to the tide over the growing crisis of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.He said that his ministry has given emergency financial powers the armed forces so that they can set up and operate quarantine facilities and hospitals and procure essential equipment. He added that the powers were in addition to the emergency financial powers delegated to Director General Medical Services of the three service wings and other medical officers their units.In a blog post on his website, the defence minister wrote, “Nearly 750 beds in various Military Hospitals have been set aside for civilian use while the AFMS also dedicated 19 hospitals, over 4,000 beds and 585 ICU units across the country. Base Hospital in Delhi has been converted into a COVID hospital with capacity being increased from around 400 to 1,000 beds.”The DRDO has set up a 500-bed facility each in New Delhi and Lucknow, a 900-bed hospital in Ahmedabad and converted ESIC Hospital in Patna to a Covid-19 hospital with 500 beds. Work is in full swing to set up similar such hospitals at Muzaffarpur and Varanasi.The DRDO also developed blood oxygen saturation supplemental oxygen delivery system for soldiers posted at extreme high-altitude areas. The system will be useful for Covid-19 patients as their conditions become similar.Meanwhile, the Army has provided 100 beds each at Lucknow and Prayagraj in Uttar Pradesh to cater to the surge in cases. In Madhya Pradesh’s Sagour, a 40-bed isolation facility has been set up along with ambulance facility, while 100 beds have been provided at facilities in Bhopal & Jabalpur and 40 beds at Gwalior.It has also established a 50-bed isolation facility Jharkhand’s in Namkuma and another 60-bed critical care facility in Pune and100 beds at Barmer in Rajasthan.It has also deployed army medical personnel in Ahmedabad and Patna and battlefield-nursing assistants to Patiala administration for hospital management.Rajnath Singh said the Indian Air Force has carried out 50 sorties, airlifting 61 oxygen containers of 1,142 MT capacity from various countries to augment the supply of medical oxygen. Even within the country, It carried out 344 sorties, airlifting 230 containers of 4527 MT capacity till 05th of May 2021.Similarly, the Navy deployed its warships for shipment of liquid medical oxygen-filled cryogenic containers and associated medical equipment from various countries in the Middle East and southeast Asia to augment the mission for meeting the oxygen requirements. The first such consignment was brought in to Mangalore on Wednesday by INS Talwar from Bahrain.“As the whole of India stands united in the fight against the current surge in the pandemic the Armed Forces are walking the extra mile for the nation to emerge a winner. Hard times demand the manifestation of an indomitable spirit to fight against the odds and that is what the country is doing at the moment,” the defence minister wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/armed-forces-fight-the-invisible-army-101620303699269.html
06-05-2021||India||Delivered 3,000 concentrators received as international aid to hospitals: Centre||The Centre on Thursday clarified there was no pendency of oxygen concentrators, received as international aid, with the Indian customs, and the entire shipment of about 3,000 of them was either delivered or dispatched to hospitals across the country.“The Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) has clarified that there is no such pendency with Indian Customs. The Indian Customs is swiftly clearing all consignments & no such figures of pendency exist across any port of import,” said Union health ministry in a statement on Thursday.“It has been reported in some sections of the media that oxygen concentrators are pending at the Customs warehouse for getting clearance from the Custom authorities. The news is totally incorrect, not based on facts and without any basis.”In all, 3,000 oxygen concentrators have been received from various countries as the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic has overwhelmed India hospitals and triggered a shortage of essential medical supplies and equipment.Also Watch | ‘If Delhi gets 700 MT oxygen daily…’: Kejriwal on deaths due to oxygen shortageThe concentrators are either being delivered to the identified tertiary care institutions or have been dispatched for delivery, the statement said. The relief material has been dispatched through road and air, too.There are no oxygen concentrators lying in the warehouse of the customs department, the health ministry clarified.“The Indian customs is sensitive to the need for availability of Covid related imports including oxygen and oxygen related equipment etc and are working 24x7 to fast track and clear the goods on arrival and lead to expeditious clearance within hours. The goods are given high priority for clearance by the customs systems for processing over other goods. While the nodal officers get alerts on email for monitoring and clearance, monitoring by senior officers for pendency of Covid related imports is also being undertaken,” the health ministry statement said.“Recently, the matter regarding a consignment of 3,000 oxygen concentrators lying with customs authorities came up in the Delhi High Court and the same was clarified by the government counsel that presently no such consignment is pending with custom authorities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-says-it-has-delivered-to-hospitals-3-000-concentrators-received-as-aid-101620303472682.html
06-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Delhi CM Kejriwal thanks PM Modi for oxygen supply and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi CM Kejriwal writes to PM Modi; expresses gratitude for supply of oxygenDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and expressed his gratitude for the supply of oxygen amid rising cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Read morePM Modi undertakes ‘comprehensive’ review of Covid-19 situationPrime Minister Narendra Modi undertook a “comprehensive” review meeting on Thursday over the ongoing Covid-19 crisis in the country, and was briefed about districts with high burden of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said in a press release. Read moreMonsoon to hit Kerala on June 1: Ministry of Earth Sciences secyEarly forecasts suggest that monsoon is likely to arrive over Kerala on June 1, its normal arrival date. Monsoon for this year is likely to bring the normal amount of rainfall at 98% of the long period average (LPA), the India Meteorological Department had said in its forecast on April 16. Read moreChina suspends ‘economic dialogue mechanism’ with AustraliaChina on Thursday “indefinitely” suspended all activity under a China-Australia economic dialogue mechanism, the latest sign of increasingly strained diplomatic ties between Beijing and Canberra. Read more'He quietly comes and picks up 2-3 wickets': Virender Sehwag lauds young Indian speedster 'no one talks about'The IPL 2021 stands suspended but the 29 matches that were played witnessed some exhilarating performances with both bat and ball. Shikhar Dhawan and Harshal Patel were holders of the Orange Cap and Purple Cap respectively, but there were those who were climbing up on the leading run-getter and wicket-taker lists rapidly. Read moreStep inside Dia Mirza's home which is a nature lover's paradiseDia Mirza is known not only for her acting career and winning the Miss Asia Pacific crown in 2000, but also for being an avid nature lover. Time and again, she amplifies environmentalist causes through her social media platforms. Read moreHonda to stop producing cars in India for 12 days amid Covid scareHonda Cars India on Thursday has announced that it is advancing maintenance shutdown at its Rajasthan-based manufacturing plant by around ten days in the wake of the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic. Read moreShraddha Kapoor looks like a summer dream in yellow organza spaghetti wrap dressTaking inspiration from the habit of working from home, ever since the Covid-19 pandemic struck last year, the fashion industry spilled loose-fitting trousers, bralettes, knitting, flowy dresses and more as the Spring/Summer 2021 trends and delivering the same recently is actor Shraddha Kapoor whose social media handle is filled with easy yet swoon-worthy silhouettes be it in a dreamy and fuss-free cape. Read more‘Maui loves you’: Dwayne ‘The Rock’ Johnson’s adorable message for little girl is winning heartsIf you’re a frequent visitor on Instagram, you may have come across some of the adorable posts shared by Dwayne ‘The Rock’ Johnson. Other than sharing his workout sessions and funny banters with his daughters, Johnson also posts wholesome messages and love for his young fans all over the world. Read moreWatch: Union Minister shares video of attack on his convoy, blames ‘TMC goons’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-delhi-cm-kejriwal-thanks-pm-modi-for-oxygen-supply-and-all-the-latest-news-101620298341815.html
06-05-2021||India||Himachal Pradesh records 1,456 new Covid-19 cases, 28 more deaths||Himachal Pradesh on Thursday recorded 1,465 Covid-19 cases and 28 fatalities, a senior official said.According to data updated till 2 pm, the death toll in the state due to the disease now stands at 1,707 and the case tally at 1,16,252.Active cases in the state now stand at 25,475, the official said.Also, 1,864 coronavirus patients recovered from the infection during the day, taking the total number of recoveries in Himachal to 89,018, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/himachal-pradesh-records-1-456-new-covid-19-cases-28-more-deaths-101620298310040.html
06-05-2021||India||India has administered over 162mn Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered over 162million coronavirus vaccine doses by Wednesday. In what could give a boost to vaccine programmes the world over, US President Joe Biden supported a proposal to waive intellectual property rights for Covid-19 vaccines to make them available to more people faster.India and South Africa led the proposal at the World Trade Organisation to waive protections for some patents and technology and boost vaccine production in developing countries.Meanwhile, by Wednesday 8pm, 162,430,828 vaccine doses had been given in India. In the 18-44year category, 230,305 beneficiaries received their first dose and cumulatively, 902,731 beneficiaries in this category got their shot across 12 states/UT.Also Read | Delhi adds 19,133 new Covid cases, 335 deaths; positivity rate below 25%The over 162million doses given include 9,479,901 healthcare workers who have had their first dose and 6,352,975 who have got their second dose as well. As many as 13,649,661 frontline workers have had their first dose while 7,412,888 have got their second dose too.In the 45-59-year age group, 53,795,272 people have got their first dose and another 4,829,091 have had their second dose as well. In the 60+ category, 53,109,064 people have been administered their first dose while 12,899,245 have had their second dose as well.As many as 1,890,346 vaccine doses were given by the evening. Of this, 866,423 beneficiaries were vaccinated with the first dose and 1,023,923 beneficiaries received their second dose as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-over-162mn-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101620298671896.html
06-05-2021||India||PM Modi undertakes ‘comprehensive’ review of Covid-19 situation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi undertook a “comprehensive” review meeting on Thursday over the ongoing Covid-19 crisis in the country, and was briefed about districts with high burden of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said in a press release.Click here for all Covid-19 updatesThe PMO noted that Prime Minister Modi was informed about the 12 states whose active caseload is more than one lakh. Some of these states, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said in a briefing on Wednesday, are Maharashtra, Kerala, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, all of which have an active caseload of more than 1.5 lakh.Also Read | 12 states account for more than 100,000 active Covid cases, health ministry saysThe release further said the Prime Minister was also briefed about the ramping up of health infrastructure by states, adding that the need to ensure quick and holistic containment measures was discussed as well. The PM also reviewed the availability of medicines and was briefed about the rapid augmenting of the production of medicines, including Remdesivir, it said.Also Read | Third wave of Covid inevitable, says government“PM reviewed the progress on vaccination and the roadmap for scaling up the production of vaccines in the next few months. He was informed that around 17.7 crore vaccines have been supplied to states and that around 31% of eligible population over the age of 45 has been given at least one dose,” the release said. It noted that the meeting was also attended by central ministers Rajnath Singh, Amit Shah, Nirmala Sitharaman, Piyush Goyal, Mansukh Mandaviya and other top officials.Also Read | Chaudhary Ajit Singh, former Union minister, dies of Covid-19“Reviewed various aspects of Covid-19 response in the states and districts, including the ongoing vaccination drive and augmenting health capacities,” Prime Minister Modi tweeted on the meeting.Reviewed various aspects of the COVID-19 response in the states and districts, including the ongoing vaccination drive and augmenting health capacities. https://t.co/WcqG6U4yuIAccording to the health ministry’s website on Thursday morning, India saw a record 412,262 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, along with 3,980 related deaths – highest in a single day. The country’s cumulative infection tally stands at 21,077,410, including 17,280,844 recoveries, 3,566,398 active cases and 230,168 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-undertakes-comprehensive-review-on-covid-19-situation-101620296964697.html
06-05-2021||India||Pleas for help in India as Covid-19 leaves children without carers||When an Indian children's rights group tracked down two boys aged 6 and 8 after it was told that their parents were both severely ill with Covid-19 and unable to care for them, the children had not eaten for days.The case, reported by the Bachpan Bachao Andolan (BBA) group which located the boys in a small town in India's rural heartland, was one of a growing number of emergencies involving children affected by India's devastating coronavirus crisis.The exponential rise in infections and deaths has left some children, particularly in poor communities, without a carer because their parents or other relatives are too ill to cope or have died."Because the number of deaths has increased, the crisis is that either children are losing their parents, or their caregivers are hospitalised, and there is no one to take care of them," said Dhananjay Tingal, executive director of BBA.India's underfunded social services are struggling to cope, and in certain parts of the country there is still stigma surrounding people who contract the virus, leaving some children isolated."Neighbours and extended family do not want to help because they are afraid of infection, treating these families almost like outcasts," said Tingal.He did not share further details of the two boys because of concern for their privacy.Tingal said BBA, which is headed by Nobel Peace Prize laureate Kailash Sayarthi, started receiving calls about children in dire situations linked to the Covid-19 outbreak in early April. The volume of calls increased after Sayarthi posted a helpline number on Twitter on April 29.BBA now receives about 70 calls a day seeking help for children whose parents are dead or seriously ill, and a greater number of calls from parents who have tested positive and want to know if the group can take care of their children if their health fails."NEED A BREAST MILK DONOR"With 3.57 million active cases of Covid-19, India recorded more than 400,000 new infections over the last 24 hours - the highest daily tally reported globally - while deaths rose by a record 3,980.Experts say actual numbers could be five to 10 times higher. Citizens across the country, the world's second most populous, are struggling to find beds, oxygen, or medicines needed for treatment, and many are dying for lack of treatment.Desperate pleas to help children have been appearing on social media."Need a breast milk donor for a one-day-old baby in Delhi. Her mother passed away due to Covid," read one Tweet. The person later said help had been found.Protsahan India Foundation, a children's rights NGO, said its frontline workers recently attended to children who had gone without food for days after their mother, the main caregiver, passed away."The father is a daily wage worker and is in a state of shock and trauma himself. We are helping with food and immediate care, education and protection needs of those kids," said Sonal Kapoor, founder-director at Protsahan.In the state of Karnataka, home to the tech city of Bengaluru and an epicentre of the second wave, the government has appointed an official to identify children orphaned by Covid-19 ensure they receive appropriate support.The state this week also ramped up messaging around children's safety and appealed to citizens not to seek help online from unknown groups.In the capital New Delhi, the city-state's child protection arm this week wrote to the police asking them to investigate posts on social media calling for urgent adoptions."They may also be cases of trafficking and sale-purchase of the children," the Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights warned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pleas-for-help-in-india-as-covid-19-leaves-children-without-carers-101620297157035.html
06-05-2021||India||Negative RT-PCR report mandatory for zoo keepers, field officers in MP||After eight Asiatic lions at Nehru Zoological Park in Hyderabad tested positive for Covid-19, MP forest department has instructed all the zoological parks and tiger reserves in the state to stay on alert, said an official.The zoo administration is serving boiled meat with anti-viral medicines to animals to protect them against Covid-19 infection, said forest department official.“In MP, which is home to the highest number of tigers in the country i.e., 526, RT-PCR test has been made compulsory for staffers of zoo, field officers and forest guards of national parks and Tiger reserves involved in animal rescue operations,” said Alok Kumar, principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife). In Indore, Gwalior and Bhopal zoological parks, all the staff members will give samples for RT-PCR test. Kamla Nehru zoological park, Indore, in-charge Uttam Yadav said, “Apart from RT-PCR test of staff members, we are also sanitising the park daily. We have started giving boiled meat laced with anti-viral medicines to animals to save them from viral infection.”Also Read | MP University Exams 2021: Open book exams for UG, PG courses, notice here“We are also giving immunity booster medicines to newly born animals, including two cubs,” he added,The zoo authorities will not go for sample testing but are keeping a close eye on the health of animals. “We have almost stopped man-animal interaction at zoo. Only zookeepers and veterinary doctors visit it daily in proper PPE kits and mask. The team of doctors and zookeepers is keeping an eye on the daily activities of animals. We will not go for sample testing. The testing will be done only if animals get sick,” said Ashok Kumar Jain, additional director Van Vihar, Bhopal.In Tiger reserves too, field officers have been asked to pay extra attention on activities of animals. “The field officers and forest guards, who are part of the rescue team of tiger and other wild animals, have been asked to give samples for RT-PCR test. They have also been asked to follow all the guidelines of the ministry of environment and forests (MoEF),” said VS Parihar, field director Pench Tiger Reserve.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/negative-rt-pcr-report-mandatory-for-zoo-keepers-field-officers-in-mp-101620297292503.html
06-05-2021||India||Move over Delhi, Mumbai; Gurugram, Dehradun, Kolkata emerge as new Covid-19 hotspots||The second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has started gripping smaller districts of the country which so far remained unaffected by the surge in the number of Covid-19 cases. Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Karnataka, Kerala are the major contributors to the Covid-19 caseload of the country, but now the many other areas are emerging as hotspots in respect to cases per million population.Also read: Bengal to use quack doctors as first line of defence against Covid-19Around 129 districts reported more than 5,000 new infections in the last week, as per howindialives.com a database and search engine for public data. Gurugram in Haryana was at the top with maximum new cases per capita (11,695 new cases per million population). Kolkata at number six (9,494), Dehradun at number nine (8,632) and Srinagar ranked 11 (8,355). Chandigarh with 6,320 cases, Kamrup Metropolitan that includes Guwahati in Assam with 6,380 cases were also in the top 20, reported Mint citing the database.The contagion is spreading at a rapid pace as now 184 districts have more cases per million population than the national average in contrast to 156 districts a week before. While 70 of these districts are part of the worst-hit states like Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh and Karnataka, hike in some other districts have added their states to the list, like Uttarakhand, where 12 of 13 districts are logging per capita cases above the national average. Uttarakhand hosted the large-scale Maha Kumbh festival, where all Covid-19 protocols went for a toss. Himachal Pradesh, where 10 of 12 districts have more per capita numbers above the average is also new to the list.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19The country on Thursday reported nearly 3,980 new fatalities due to Covid-19. Jharkhand remained the states recording the highest rise in Covid-19 deaths for the second straight week, as per the database, reported Mint. The state reported a rise of almost 4.3 times. State capital Ranchi made up for a third of the deaths reported this week. Lohardaga and Garhwa logged a four- and three-fold rise, respectively, in deaths last week.The country reported more than 412,000 new infections in the last 24 hours, pushing the active caseload to over 3.56 million, according to the health ministry's data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/move-over-delhi-mumbai-gurugram-dehradun-kolkata-emerge-as-new-covid-19-hotspots-101620289059511.html
06-05-2021||India||Research data doesn't establish N440K variant is 'very virulent': Andhra Covid Command Centre chief||With various media reports claiming that the N440K variant prevailing in different parts of Andhra Pradesh is much more dangerous than the previous variants of Covid-19, the state government sent some samples to CCMB Hyderabad for testing and the results revealed that the data so far does not establish the claim.In a clarification, Andhra Pradesh Covid Command Centre Chairman Dr KS Jawahar Reddy said: "On average around 250 samples are being sent to Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) from the labs of the state every month, where genome sequencing of southern states -- Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Karnataka -- are being carried out. The research data of CCMB far does not establish that N440K is a variant of interest and is very virulent."N440K Strain of coronavirus (B136) was detected in the month of June-July last year from the samples of south India (Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Telangana). This strain was prevalent in December 2020 and January and February 2021 and dropped down drastically in March and now the share of N440K among the positives is very minimal.At present, B1617 and B1 are the major strains identified from the samples of south India from the positives of the April month data, which is very infectious and is also spreading in the younger age groups apart from the adults.B1617, and the 'double mutant' -- this name comes from two notable mutations found in other variants that appeared together for the first time in this new strain and first detected in western parts of India, the letter stated."Although, N440K variant shown to be efficient in cell culture system in experimental conditions, it is important to remember that just because a variant behaves a certain way in cell cultures (with no competition, and in controlled settings), it does not mean it will behave the same way in humans, or in a complicated pandemic scenario. N440K story is one such example.""It is pertinent to note that Covid-19 Weekly Epidemiological Update dated April 25 issued by WHO mentions about lineage B1617 as VOI (Variant of Interest)from India and does not mention about variant N440K. If this variant is of such public health concern as reported in certain sections of media, it should have by now found place WHO reports as well as ICMR reports, it added."Hence it is clarified that research data so far does not establish that N440K is variant of interest and is very virulent," Chairman Reddy said.Meanwhile, the health department of the state appealed to the media to be "responsible" in publishing material pertaining to scientific issues and avoid creating panic in the minds of public during this pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/research-data-doesn-t-establish-n440k-variant-is-very-virulent-andhra-covid-command-centre-chief-101620293119756.html
06-05-2021||India||MHA asks report from West Bengal Governor over law and order situation: Report||The Ministry of Home Affairs has asked West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar to send a report on the law and order situation in the state, said government sources on Thursday.The MHA has deputed a four-member team, led by an Additional Secretary level official including a Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) official, to assess the ground situation in the state amid the post-poll violence.A four-member team including -- Additional Secretary Home Ministry Govind Mohan, Additional Secretary Education Ministry Vinit Joshi, Joint Director of Intelligence Bureau Janardan Singh, and IB Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) IB, Nalin -- has arrived in Kolkata to assess the ground situation.On Wednesday, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla wrote to West Bengal Chief Secretary reminding him of the letter written on May 3 to check the post-poll violence and also to provide a report on the incidents.Violence has been reported in several parts of West Bengal after the results of the assembly elections were declared on May 2. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) alleged that nine of its party workers have been killed in the post-poll violence. However, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) is denying the allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-asks-report-from-west-bengal-governor-over-law-and-order-situation-report-101620292183030.html
06-05-2021||India||Monsoon to hit Kerala on June 1: Ministry of Earth Sciences secy||Early forecasts suggest that monsoon is likely to arrive over Kerala on June 1, its normal arrival date.Monsoon 2021 update: @Indiametdept Extended Range Forecast suggests monsoon will arrive over Kerala on time, around 1 June. This is an early indication. @Indiametdept official monsoon forecast on 15 May & rainfall forecast update around 31 May@moesgoi @drharshvardhan pic.twitter.com/peYXRMKnh5“Extended range forecast suggests monsoon will arrive over Kerala on time, around June 1. This is an early indication. @indiametdept official monsoon forecast on May 15 and rainfall forecast update around May 31,” M Rajeevan, secretary, ministry of earth sciences tweeted on Thursday.“Early analysis indicates monsoon will arrive around June 1 over Kerala. Like we have projected earlier its likely to be a normal monsoon this year,” Rajeevan said.Also Read | Most of South Asia to record normal or above normal monsoon this yearMonsoon for this year is likely to bring the normal amount of rainfall at 98% of the long period average (LPA), the India Meteorological Department had said in its forecast on April 16, while adding that there could be a variation of 5% over or under the prediction.India recorded above-average monsoon rains for two consecutive years, and a normal season this year will significantly help the agriculture sector in particular, and the economy in general, following a year when the pandemic has stressed earnings.The summer rains – which typically set in from June 1 — are critical because nearly 60% of India’s net arable land lacks irrigation and nearly half the population depends on a farm-based livelihood. The rains also replenish 89 “nationally important reservoirs” critical for drinking and power generation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-to-hit-kerala-on-june-1-ministry-of-earth-sciences-secy-101620291951242.html
06-05-2021||India||Delhi Police raids hoarders of medical oxygen and medicines in Bihar, Jharkhand||Delhi Police has registered no less than 303 cases of hoarding of drugs, oxygen cylinders and vital injections between April 13 and May 5 to tide over the surge in coronavirus disease cases. As many as 144 alleged black marketeers have been arrested and 451 vials of Remdesivir injections, 242 oxygen cylinders and 285 oxygen concentrators among other critical medical equipment seized ffrom them.According to data accessed by Hindustan Times, Delhi Police Commissioner S N Shrivastava spoke to his Jharkhand and Bihar counterparts on Wednesday to seek support for raids in certain parts of the state to book medical black marketeers. As of now the raids are being carried out.While Delhi Police has registered 225 cases of cheating against unscrupulous elements over charges, including promise of supply of essential drugs, setting up of fake websites, and has registered another 78 cases of black marketeering and hoarding. Three ambulances have also been seized for overcharging patients upto ₹1 lakh per trip to hospitals. A total of 2,822 medical equipment has been seized during the raid, including Favipiravir tablets, oxygen pumps and flow regulators.Even as the Delhi Police has launched a major initiative to book black marketeers, unscrupulous elements throughout the national capital region, particularly in Noida and Gurugram, have made a killing out of medicines used to treat cased of the Covid-19 virus. For instance, a single vial of Remdesivir has reportedly been sold at ₹2,500 per vial in the black market in Gurugram, while Tocilizumab injection, used to treat critical patients, has been sold between ₹7.5 lakh and ₹10 lakh per injection in the past week.The black marketeers have made hay out of patients requiring oxygen cylinders, regulators and even basic medicines at a time when the second wave of the pandemic wreaked havoc across the country. The situation in neighbouring Noida is no better with certain unscrupulous elements charging a huge premium in lieu of arranging oxygen beds or ICUs for critical patients.In Delhi, the maximum number of cases have been registered in the south and west zone with the former making maximum arrests of 35 persons on charhes of cheating, fraud and black marketeering. A number of those arrested have also been charged under relevant sections of the cyber law for allegedly creating a fake website of ministry of health and family welfare to "offer" Covid-19 vaccine at a cost of ₹4,000-6,000 to unsuspecting victims.Incidentally, this fake website had the same layout and texture of the original website including the national emblem. A number of cheating cases pertain to demanding upfront payment for Remdesivir injections and then not delivering on the promise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-police-raids-hoarders-of-medical-oxygen-and-medicines-in-bihar-jharkhand-101620290583653.html
06-05-2021||India||Actor Pandu who designed AIADMK’s flag and symbol, dies of Covid-19||Tamil actor Pandu, a well known comedian who famously designed the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK)’s iconic two-leaves symbol and the party flag, died of Covid-19 in a Chennai hospital on Thursday. 74-year old Pandu had tested positive along with his wife Kumudha. She is still under treatment.Pandu was handpicked by matinee idol and former chief minister MG Ramachandran (MGR) to design the party’s symbol and flag after he split from the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) in 1972 and launched the Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam or ADMK (later renamed AIADMK). The AIADMK’s two-leaves and the DMK’s rising sun symbol have a major recall value among the electorate who largely vote based on the symbols. AIADMK’s coordinator and outgoing deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam said Pandu’s death was “shocking and heartbreaking”. Pannerselvam tweeted a picture of Pandu sketching two green leaves. Outgoing chief minister Edappadi Palansiwami also tweeted his condolences and recalled Pandu’s contribution to the AIADMK. Besides him, chief minister elect MK Stalin and several members of the film fraternity too expressed their condolences.Pandu made his debut in the 1970 film Maanavan and went on to play comic and character roles in several films with leading actors. Pandu also ran a firm, Capital Letters, which designed signboards. He is survived by his wife and three sons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/actor-pandu-who-designed-aiadmk-s-flag-and-symbol-dies-of-covid19-101620290991056.html
06-05-2021||India||Migrant workers among worst hit as curbs put in place to check Covid-19 cases||Pavan Sahni, 30, an ice cream seller, would earn ₹400 daily in Rajasthan’s Neemrana before lockdown was imposed there to check the second Covid-19 wave that has overwhelmed hospitals and starved them of life-saving oxygen and beds. He has since found it hard to sustain his family of four. Sahni, who lives in a small, rented room with his wife and daughters aged nine and seven, has also been unable to return to his native Vaishali in Bihar as he does not the money for it.“It is a much worse situation this time,” said Sahni, referring to the lockdown imposed last year to check the pandemic spread that forced tens of thousands of migrant workers left jobless to cycle or walk back to their homes.Sahni said around 15 people from his village, who sold ice creams in Neemrana, have returned to their homes. “... we could not. There is no money left for us to travel back home [over 1,300 kilometres away].”Sahni said they utilised all their savings during the lockdown last year and that they fear for their survival. He added people were reluctant to offer help as they are fearful of getting infected. “Last year, many neighbours would offer us food. This time no one came. People are fearful because of the virus,” said Sahni. “My daughter injured her foot last week and that wound had to be stitched. The medicine and ointment cost ₹500. I did not have any money to pay for it. I asked the chemist if we could pay later but he refused. My wife somehow managed to borrow money. The times are bad. How would anyone lend me money? Most of the people I know are skipping meals.”Many like the Sahnis are finding it difficult to stay afloat as lockdowns imposed across the country in the face of surging infections have left them jobless.Also Read | Covid test, week-long quarantine must for migrant workers returning to JharkhandAccording to Stranded Workers Action Network (Swan), a volunteer group, livelihood distress is beginning to rise again among workers like Sahni as the economic activity has come to a standstill across India. “As many as 81% of the workers, who are stranded or are in their homes, said that work had stopped in early April due to locally declared lockdowns/restrictions,” said a Swan report based on survey conducted over the last fortnight.As many as 82% of workers that Swan spoke to said that they had not received any money from their employers since the lockdowns began last month. At least 32% of workers had not got their wages of previous months.Sahni said even if he manages to find some work, people usually pay less. “My ice-cream factory owner has a flour mill too. ...he paid me ₹400 daily for selling ice creams.. after lockdown, he called me to his flour mill for loading and unloading of flour bags. This work was more difficult than the first, but hardly has he ever paid me more than 200 rupees daily.”Dinesh Rathore, a construction worker in Delhi, said since the weekend curfew in April, he and his brother have lost all savings. “We have a few hundred rupees left which would hardly last till 10th of this month,” said Rathore. He added an NGO paid them ₹2,000. “We do not know what to do if the lockdown is extended here. Last year, the government had put us up at a school in Delhi and gave us food. This year, no one is helping. There is nothing to do at home. Many of us have now shifted to a single room to share the rent. The government should at least open up the schools like last year and give us food.”Anandita Adhikari of Swan said while there are no travel restrictions and workers can go their homes, there are fears of a nationwide lockdown, which, if unplanned again, might lead to the repetition of what happened last year.Mohammad Gulzar, 24, a migrant worker from Jharkhand who works in Goa, said even for a week before the lockdown was imposed, police would not allow them to go for work. “I along with a few more from my village left Goa three days back on a train. We did not want to go through what happened with us the last time. We did not even have anything to eat,” said Gulzar, who is the sole bread earner of his family.PK Gupta, officer on special duty, Union labour ministry, said the government has set up 20 control rooms to address wage-related grievances of migrant workers and to mitigate their problems through coordination with state governments. “We have even shared personal numbers of our officers so that the migrant workers can directly call them to get their grievances resolved. Even, last year, when this crisis erupted as many as ₹295 crore of pending wages were paid to over 20,00,00 workers... People who need help should call and the best possible help shall be given to them.”Ajay Tiwari, joint secretary, directorate general labour welfare, said they held a meeting with the states on Thursday over the issue. “Though at a few places, these workers are getting help in the form of food provisions by the states but today [Thursday] all the states have been directed to lend some financial assistance as well as ration support...”Also Watch | ‘All options being discussed’: Govt on nationwide lockdown amid Covid crisisAdhikari said the government should provide income support to these workers to ensure their families do not suffer. “They are usually away from their homes and do not have access to their ration cards. Thereby they cannot avail the subsidised food grains.”Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said that the state will once again provide free ration for two months to ration card holders and also give financial aid of ₹5,000 to autorickshaw and taxi drivers in the city to help them tide over financial losses due to the lockdown in the city.According to the Swan survey, over 70% of workers needed ration or cash support immediately. “While many of the workers living alone have returned to their villages, those with their families cannot... A direct income support in the form of wage compensation would at least help them sustain this crisis,” said Adhikari. She said the government should prioritise vaccination of these workers. Adhikari said if they are not vaccinated immediately, the virus of every strain will reach villages as the migrant workers frequently move from urban to rural areas.“Before the state governments coordinate and arrange for the transportation of these workers, they should organise vaccination drives...” Adhikari also called for vaccine awareness campaigns as many migrant workers are hesitant to go for the vaccination.Economist Karan Bhasin echoed Adhikari and said India cannot afford another mass migration. “...the central government should help them sustain rental and other expenses through direct income support...it is the responsibility of the state governments as well to reach out to them with help and prevent them from migrating to their villages.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrant-workers-among-worst-hit-as-curbs-put-in-place-to-check-covid-19-cases-101620290510968.html
06-05-2021||India||Centre's oxygen allocation 'arbitrary', Delhi tells Supreme Court||A Supreme Court bench, led by Justice DY Chandrachud, on Thursday asked the Centre its plan of action for the third surge of the pandemic, which the government on Wednesday said is inevitable. The bench as solicitor general Tushar Mehta to explain how prepared the Centre is to deal with the third wave of the pandemic.Justice Chandrachud said in the impending third wave, children might be affected and when a child goes to a hospital, his parents will also go. So, the vaccination of this group of people needs to be over by that time, Justice Chandrachud said.During the hearing which pertains to oxygen supply to Delhi, Mehta said to allot 700 metric tonne of oxygen to Delhi, the allotment for other states has to be interfered with.Centre moves SC challenging Delhi HC's show cause notice of contempt over deficit in oxygen supply to CapitalMost of the hospitals that are raising SOS for oxygen now were not Covid hospitals and so they did not have tanks, Mehta said, adding that the capacity to hold oxygen in a cylinder is 12 hours and as many hospitals only had tanks, SOS messages were raised.As Mehta said that now the Centre will be answerable for taking oxygen from elsewhere and rerouting it to Delhi, Justice Chandrachud said the formula needs a relook as it has grossly underestimated Delhi's requirement.Advocate Rahul Mehra said it is wrong for the Centre to say that other states will suffer from additional oxygen supply to Delhi as according to Centre's affidavit, the additional 210 metric tonne of oxygen is less than 1 per cent of what they have. People in Delhi are dying and the Centre shouldn't be allowed to reduce the supply, Mehra said.Terming Centre's oxygen allocation to states arbitrary, Mehra said if an audit is required, then it is required to examine these allocations and the tankers.Tushar Mehta said the Centre can not only be concerned with Delhi. "People have given mandate to this government twice. People are in the heart. But we can not be concerned only about Delhi. Our concern is that there has to be mechanism in place for propoer allocation and distribution."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-will-you-deal-with-3rd-surge-of-pandemic-supreme-court-asks-centre-101620289403764.html
06-05-2021||India||Was Covid-19 aid effectively allocated? Centre says yes, provides detailed list||The Union ministry of health and family welfare on Thursday refuted certain 'global media reports' which have raised concerns over the distribution of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) relief arriving in India from overseas. "...the aid is being effectively and promptly allocated and dispatched to states and union territories by the Government of India," the health ministry said, responding to the concerns that have been raised by a section of the global media.#IndiaFightsCorona #Unite2FightCorona https://t.co/lXlsdUaSQs pic.twitter.com/xW88jg4BN5"It has been reported in some sections of the media that oxygen concentrations are pending at the Customs warehouse for getting clearance from the Customs authorities. The news is totally incorrect, not based on facts and without any basis," read a government release.Also Read: 'If oxygen level is 94%': AIIMS director on Oxygen misuse in Covid treatmentAs flights continued to arrive in India carrying medical supplies and technical equipment for combating the more infectious second wave of the coronavirus, certain media reports contended that the Covid-19 supplies had not made their way yet to the hospitals in national capital Delhi and elsewhere, that are in dire need of the life-saving tranches. Global media reports, too, highlighted that the exact status of oxygen concentrators, cylinders, and medicines that arrive as foreign aid in India remains unclear, even as the already overburdened healthcare system in the country continues to crumble under the devastating surge of cases.Refuting such reports, the central government had provided a list detailing the "effective allocation" of Covid-19 supplies received from the global community.Thursday's press note read, "Government of India has been receiving international donations/aid of Covid-19 relief medical supplies and equipment since 27 April 2021 from different countries. All items received so far are allocated to the states/institutions and a substantial part of it stands delivered. This is an ongoing exercise. The aim is to extend all support and assistance through various means and measures to strengthen the States’ and UT’s efforts during this critical phase," the government said.Watch: ‘All options being discussed’: Govt on nationwide lockdown amid Covid crisisOn the question of oxygen cylinders, the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) clarified that there is no such pendency with Indian Customs."In all, 3,000 oxygen concentrators have been received from various countries as global aid to support efforts of Government of India and the states and UTs in their collective fight against the global pandemic. Of these Mauritius has sent 200 oxygen concentrators, Russia (20), the UK has sent in four consignments (95+120+280+174), 80 from Romania, 700 from Ireland, Thailand (30), China (1000), and Uzbekistan (151). In addition, Taiwan has sent 150. The oxygen concentrators are either delivered to the identified tertiary care institutions or been dispatched for delivery. The relief material has been dispatched through road and air too. There are no oxygen contractors lying in the warehouse of the Customs Department," the Centre clarified.The government said that the matter regarding the effective allocation of Covid-19 supplies received from abroad also came up recently during a hearing at the Delhi high court and it was clarified before the bench that no such consignment is pending with the Customs authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/was-covid-19-aid-effectively-allocated-centre-says-yes-provides-detailed-list-101620286482884.html
06-05-2021||India||Kerala Covid-19 cases reach unprecedented levels, state announces 8-day lockdown||The Kerala government on Thursday decided to enforce eight- day lockdown in the state beginning Saturday, May 8 with chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan blaming the “worsening” Covid-19 situation for the move. Yesterday Kerala recorded 41,953 new infections-- the highest since the outbreak last year. The test positivity rate has reached 25.69% -- an all time high, while the active caseload reached 375,658.Though its fatality rate is the lowest in the country (below 0.4%), statistics show it is also climbing steadily in the last one week with 58 deaths reported in the last 24 hours. In terms of total cases of the viral infection, Kerala is at the third spot after Maharashtra and Karnataka.Hospitals and ICUs are overflowing and long queues are visible outside crematoriums in worst- affected districts. A worried CM wrote to Prime Minister Modi on Wednesday seeking more liquid medical oxygen and vaccines.Besides shortage of essential medical equipment and oxygen, many hospitals have shortage of human resources, a problem compounded by rising infections among the staff. The government opened oxygen war rooms in every district with senior officials co-ordinating with medical officers and collectors to ensure hassle-free supplyCurrently the state has a stock of 272.2 metric tonnes of liquid oxygen and it needs 108 mt of oxygen daily, health ministry statistics show.The government has also decided to convert hostels, lodges and empty offices as first line treatment centres to meet the surge of patients. It also tweaked protocol to only allow admission to patients in need of urgent medical care. The CM had also sought the help of NRIs to tide over the grave situation. The state has about 25 lakh people working abroad and 70% of them are in West Asian countries.Kerala has so far vaccinated 74 lakh people, almost 20 per cent of its 3.25 crore population. The Union Health Ministry and PM had recently lauded its zero wastage of vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-covid-19-cases-reach-unprecedented-levels-state-announces-8-day-lockdown-101620289131210.html
06-05-2021||India||Pakistani intruder shot dead by BSF in Jammu Kashmir||An intruder from Pakistan, who crossed the border in Jammu and Kashmir late on Wednesday night, was shot dead by the Border Security Force (BSF) along the 200 km long International Border in Samba sector, said a senior BSF officer.“During the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday around 0235 hrs (2.35 am), BSF jawans observed a Pakistani intruder near a border outpost. He had entered around 100 meter inside our territory..,” said the BSF officer.He added that the intruder ignored repeated warnings to stop, given by the BSF jawans, leaving them with no alternative but to shoot him.“His dead body is still lying there,” the BSF officer added.On April 13, the BSF had caught a Pakistani intruder along the IB in RS Pura sector of Jammu district. He, too, didn’t heed BSF warnings and received minor injuries when fired at by a BSF jawan. He was later handed over to local police.On April 24, A couple of Pakistani drones entered the Indian territory along the border in Arnia sector of Jammu district in the early hours. They returned to Pakistani territory after BSF guards opened fire.On May 3, Monday, Pakistani rangers opened unprovoked fire at BSF jawans busy with maintenance work at the border fence in Ramgarh sector of Samba district, violating the renewed ceasefire agreement between the two sides.Eom.....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistani-intruder-shot-dead-by-bsf-in-jammu-kashmir-101620287390654.html
06-05-2021||India||Privacy row: Delhi high court seeks CCI stand on Facebook, WhatsApp appeals||The Delhi high court on Thursday asked the Competition Commission of India to reply on the appeals of Facebook and WhatsApp against a single judge order dismissing their pleas against the probe CCI ordered into the instant messaging app's new privacy policy.A bench of chief justice D N Patel and Justice Jasmeet Singh issued notice to the CCI which had ordered the probe and sought its response by May 21, the next date of hearing.The single judge on April 22 had said though it would have been "prudent" for the CCI to await the outcome of petitions in the Supreme Court and the Delhi high court against WhatsApp's new privacy policy, not doing so would not make the regulator's order "perverse" or "wanting of jurisdiction".The court had said it saw no merit in the petitions of Facebook and WhatsApp to interdict the investigation directed by the CCI.The CCI had contended before the single judge that it was not examining the alleged violation of individuals' privacy which was being looked into by the Supreme Court.It had argued before the court that the new privacy policy of WhatsApp would lead to excessive data collection and "stalking" of consumers for targeted advertising to bring in more users and is, therefore, alleged abuse of dominant position."There is no question of jurisdictional error," it had contended saying that WhatsApp and Facebook's pleas challenging its decision were "incompetent and misconceived".WhatsApp and Facebook had challenged the CCI's March 24 order directing a probe into the new privacy policy.CCI had also told the court that only after the investigation can it be determined whether the data collection by WhatsApp and sharing it with Facebook would amount to an anti-competitive practice or abuse of dominant position.It had also contended that the data collected, which would include an individual's location, the kind of device used, their internet service provider, and whom they are conversing with, would lead to the creation of a customer profile and preference which would be monetised by way of targeted advertising and all this amounts to "stalking".The two social media platforms had contended that when the top court and the Delhi high court were looking into the privacy policy, then CCI ought not to have "jumped the gun" and intervened in the issue.They had also said that CCI's decision was an abuse of the commission's suo motu jurisdiction.They had claimed that the CCI in the instant case had "drifted far away" from the competition aspect and was looking into privacy issues which were already being looked into by the apex court and the Delhi high court.In January, the CCI on its own decided to look into WhatsApp's new privacy policy on the basis of news reports regarding the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/privacy-row-delhi-high-court-seeks-cci-stand-on-facebook-whatsapp-appeals-101620284508421.html
06-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: MHA sends 4-member team to West Bengal to look into post-poll violence and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.MHA sends 4-member team to West Bengal to look into post-poll violenceThe Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) on Thursday said that a four-member team led by an additional secretary-rank officer has left for West Bengal to look into the post-poll violence in the state. Read moreOdisha: Covid-19 deaths not reconciled, data doesn’t reflect true pictureA year after battling the Covid pandemic successfully during its first wave, Odisha appears to have faltered during the second wave with number of actual Covid deaths acceding the numbers in official data even as the virus spreads deep into rural areas with high test positivity rates. Read moreRTI filed on government use of 'facial recognition' in airports, Covid-19 vaccinationThe Internet Freedom Foundation (IFF), a non-governmental organisation advocating for digital liberty, on Wednesday published its monthly Right to Information (RTI) report for April. Read moreHow to use oxygen for Covid-19 treatment? What are the safety precautions? Centre releases guidelinesAs the Centre is ramping up the supply of oxygen to states and all hospitals, the Centre on Thursday released a guideline of the use of liquid medical oxygen. Read more'How it happened is very difficult to say,' BCCI president Sourav Ganguly addresses possible bubble-breach at IPL 2021The BCCI President Sourav Ganguly on Thursday said that it remains unclear how a number of players and supporting staff were tested positive for the Covid-19 virus inside the Indian Premier League bio-bubble. Read moreLow-cost tunnels without compromising safety need of the hour: Nitin GadkariUnion Minister Nitin Gadkari on Wednesday said economising the construction cost of tunnels without compromising safety is the need of the hour. Read moreMilind Soman talks about the value of physical activity in new fitness video, asks fans to stay activeMilind Soman is back in full swing. The actor who defeated the coronavirus last month, is back to sharing workout videos on his social media and urging followers to stay active and exercise. Read moreFlorida divers discover rare mammoth fossil dating back to Ice Age. See picsTwo paleontology enthusiasts from Florida recently stumbled upon a rare find while scuba diving in the Peace river. Henry Sadler and Derek Demeter came across a four-foot-long mammoth bone that dates back to the Ice Age. Read moreWatch: 6 friends turn cars into oxygen havens for Covid patients in need in Kota||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-mha-sends-4-member-team-to-west-bengal-to-look-into-post-poll-violence-and-all-the-latest-news-101620283856394.html
06-05-2021||India||SC refuses to expunge critical remarks of Madras HC against EC||The Supreme Court on Thursday refused to expunge critical remarks of the Madras High Court holding the poll panel responsible for surge in COVID cases in country, and also trashed the plea that media be restrained from reporting observations of judicial proceedings, saying it will be a “retrograde” act.A bench headed by Justice D Y Chandrachud, however, acknowledged that the high court's remarks were “harsh”, but did not expunge them saying they do not form part of the judicial order.Media has right to cover court proceedings, the bench said, adding, “Off the cuff remarks are susceptible for misinterpretation”.The top court lauded high courts for commendable work done during COVID-19 and said they are effectively supervising pandemic management.The bench, also comprising justice M R Shah, said the media cannot be restrained from reporting observations made during the course of hearings.“It will be retrograde to restrain HCs from making observations or gagging media from reporting observations,” it said.Courts have to remain alive to evolving technology of media, it is not good, if it is restrained from reporting judicial proceedings, the bench said.The verdict came on an appeal of the poll panel against the Madras High Court's observation . The high court had on April 26 castigated the EC for the surge in COVID-19 cases during the second wave of the pandemic, holding it "singularly" responsible for the spread of the viral disease, called it the "the most irresponsible institution" and even said its officials may be booked under murder charges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-refuses-to-expunge-critical-remarks-of-madras-hc-against-ec-101620284009196.html
06-05-2021||India||Over 89 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses still available with states, UTs: Centre||More than 89 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with the states and UTs and over 28 lakh vaccine doses will be received by them within the next three days, the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday.The Centre has so far provided more than 17.15 crore (17,15,42,410) vaccine doses to states and UTs free of cost. Of this, the total consumption including wastages is 16,26,10,905 doses, as per the official data made available at 8 am."More than 89 lakh Covid vaccine doses (89,31,505) are still available with the states and UTs to be administered. States with negative balance are showing more consumption (including wastage) than vaccine supplied as they have not reconciled the vaccine they have supplied to the armed forces," the ministry said.Furthermore, more than 28 lakh (28,90,360) vaccine doses will be received in addition by the states and UTs within the next three days, it said.The central government is leading the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic in collaboration with the states and UTs through a “Whole of Government” approach, the ministry said.Vaccination forms an integral component of the five-point strategy of government of India of containment and management of the pandemic (including Test, Track, Treat and Covid Appropriate Behaviour), it said.The ministry said implementation of the ‘Liberalised and Accelerated Phase 3 Strategy’ of Covid-19 vaccination has started from May 1.Registration for the new eligible population groups has commenced since April 28. Potential beneficiaries can either register directly on the CoWIN portal (HYPERLINK "http://cowin.gov.in"cowin.gov.in) or through the Aarogya Setu app, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-89-lakh-covid-19-vaccine-doses-still-available-with-states-uts-centre-101620283721105.html
06-05-2021||India||Over 17.15 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses given to states, UTs for free: Centre||More than 17.15 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been so far provided free of cost to states and union territories, the central government informed on Thursday.More than 89 lakh doses are still available with the states and UTs to be administered, said the union health ministry in a statement. It also added that over 28 lakh doses, in addition, will be received by the states and UTs in the next three days.The country had started the Covid-19 vaccination drive on January 16 with two vaccines -- Covishield (Oxford-AstraZeneca's vaccine manufactured by Serum Institute of India) and Covaxin (manufactured by Bharat Biotech Limited).The second phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive to inoculate people above 60 years and those over 45 with comorbidities against the coronavirus began on March 1. The third phase began on April 1 for all above 45 years of age, while people aging above 18 to 45 became eligible for inoculation in the next phase which commenced on May 1.The country has been witnessing a massive surge in Covid-19 infections and on Wednesday registered 4,12,262 new cases and 3,980 related deaths, as per the government data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-17-15-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-given-to-states-uts-for-free-centre-101620283396138.html
06-05-2021||India||Kerala to go into complete Covid-19 lockdown from May 8 to 16||The Kerala government on Thursday announced a complete lockdown in the state from May 8 morning in view of the severe Covid-19 surge in the second wave of the pandemic.The 9-day-lockdown would come into force on May 8 morning and extend up to May 16, according to official sources.Strict lockdown-like restrictions are already in place in the southern state and the Pinarayi Vijayan government decided to clamp the complete shutdown in the wake of a severe spike in the positive cases.Kerala had reported the highest-ever single day spurt in positive cases on Wednesday adding 41,953 infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-to-go-into-complete-covid-19-lockdown-from-may-8-to-16-101620282649838.html
06-05-2021||India||Odisha: Covid-19 deaths not reconciled, data doesn’t reflect true picture||A year after battling the Covid pandemic successfully during its first wave, Odisha appears to have faltered during the second wave with number of actual Covid deaths acceding the numbers in official data even as the virus spreads deep into rural areas with high test positivity rates.Data shows it took just 29 days in April this year to register 1 lakh new Covid cases compared to the 169 days taken in the first wave last year. As cases gallop, the state government on Wednesday extended the lockdown to entire state for a period of 14 days after similar restrictions failed to curb the spread in western Odisha and the state’s urban areas.On Thursday, the state reported 10,521 new cases, taking the total number of active cases to 81,585 amid a positivity rate of 21.77%. While the total number of active cases has doubled since last year’s peak figure of 39,184, anecdotal evidence suggests under reporting of Covid-related deaths. Though officially the death toll stood at 133 in April, inquiries with various Covid hospitals and district authorities suggested many more people had died due to the infection.In Bhubaneswar, official figures put active Covid cases at 8,947 and the deaths at 12 for the month of April. However, Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation said 20-30 bodies were being cremated daily at the Satya Nagar crematorium in the state capital for over a fortnight. On Monday, at least 40 bodies were cremated there while 8-9 bodies were in queue, said the municipality.“In the early parts of April, I would see at least 10 pyres burning at any given point of time. Now there are more and more bodies,” said a resident of Satyanagar, who lives close to the crematorium.In neighbouring city of Cuttack, the workers at the crematorium in Sati Choura too have been busy. On Sunday last, at least 44 bodies were cremated there according to Cuttack Municipal Corporation (CMC) officials, who didn’t wish to be named. But as per government statistics, only three persons in Cuttack succumbed to Covid in April. Again, in coastal district of Balasore, at least 14 deaths have been reported from Covid hospitals, but only 5 deaths have been shown on the state government portal.In western Odisha’s Nuapada, were the test positivity rate in April was consistently around 35% (which means one out of every three persons tested there turns out to be positive for the disease), the official death toll was just 4. But local officials said 82 deaths were reported from the Covid hospitals of the district. Similarly, in Sambalpur district, more than 191 deaths due to Covid were reported from hospitals, but the government data cites only 82 deaths.Immunology consultant in SUM Covid hospital, Pradipta Patra said compared to the first wave of Covid last year, the mortality is higher in the second wave. “In the first wave, there were more asymptomatic cases, but in the second wave there are more symptomatic cases where lungs are getting affected in a greater degree. More and more patients are requiring oxygen,” he said. Health department officials confirmed that during Covid peak last year, the maximum demand for Oxygen was 23 MT per day while in April it was 36 MT.Director of health services Bijay Mohapatra admitted that the deaths being shown in the department’s Twitter handle was not real-time data and a reconciliation of the death toll was pending. “The deaths that you see that are not the deaths that happened yesterday. We notify the deaths only after we get report from districts where a committee audits each of the deaths. So at any given point of time, there may be 100 deaths that are being audited,” he said.CDMO of Nuapada district, Kali Prasad Behera admitted that death audits were taking time as they have been busy with overall Covid management. "We are doing the audit as per the ICMR protocol," he said.Unlike last year, when the test positivity rate (TPR) hovered around 10 and 11% during July and August, this year the TPR has consistently been above 15% for the last 10 days. On Thursday, Odisha’s TPR went beyond 20%, the third time in the last 7 days. Yet, the state government has not pushed forward the number of tests, more so in western Odisha districts that are recording 50% positivity.In April, the daily tests have never gone past the 50,000 figure and the RT-PCR tests, considered to be the gold standard of Covid testing, barely constitutes 40% of the total tests. Leading microbiologist Dr TM Mohapatra, who was earlier associated with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said the state should have been testing at least 1 lakh samples every day. “As the current strain is very infectious compared to last year’s, tests should have been ramped up. It would be difficult to find out the extent of the spread and save people if tests are not increased,” he said.However, the tests have not gone up partly due to couple of RT-PCR machines malfunctioning and suppliers not providing required number of testing kits, forcing the state government not to go beyond the set target.Activist Pradip Pradhan alleged that delayed tests were hampering the fight against Covid.“One of my friends got his RT-PCR test done 5 days ago, but his report is yet to come. How would he be treated without a RT-PCR report,” he asked.As lesser number of tests was being conducted despite high positivity rates, health activists were wary of the virus spreading further in rural hinterland. Of the 13,050 active cases in Khurda, more than 4,000 are in hundreds of villages of the district. Of the 5,423 active Covid cases in Cuttack district, around 1,600 are spread in several villages.In Nuapara district, bordering Chhatisgarh and Sundargarh that borders Jharkhand, the TPR crossed 50% on some days indicating every second person to be tested was positive. It was in Nuapara and Kalahandi districts, where infections were first reported in late March after several people travelled to watch a cricket match in neighbouring Chhatisgarh, bringing the virus to their home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-covid-19-deaths-not-reconciled-data-doesn-t-reflect-true-picture-101620282469949.html
06-05-2021||India||How to use oxygen for Covid-19 treatment? What are the safety precautions? Centre releases guidelines||As the Centre is ramping up the supply of oxygen to states and all hospitals, the Centre on Thursday released a guideline of the use of liquid medical oxygen. "Oxygen is crucial for the treatment of patients with severe Covid-19 since the disease affects lung functioning. Shortness of breath or difficulty of breathing is one of the most common symptoms in patients with severe Covid-19. It also hampers the supply of oxygen to various parts of the body. They hence need oxygen therapy, to be supplied through medical oxygen," it said.Liquification enables the storage of oxygen in a larger volume and easier transportation, the Centre said, detailing how it is produced, stored and what precautions should be taken for storage. How is liquid medical oxygen produced?There are several methods. The most common production method is the separation of oxygen in what are known as Air Separation Units or ASUs. ASUs are basically plants that separate large volumes of gases. They use a method called Fractional Distillation Method to produce pure oxygen from atmospheric air, which consists mostly of nitrogen and oxygen - 78% nitrogen, 21% oxygen and the remaining 1% other gases including argon, carbon dioxide, neon, helium, and hydrogen.In this method, gases from the air are separated into various components after cooling them into a liquid state and then liquid oxygen is extracted from it.As India fights Covid-19 second wave, here's all you need to know about oxygen concentratorsAtmospheric air is first cooled to -181°C. Oxygen liquefies at this point. Since the boiling point of Nitrogen is -196°C, it remains in a gaseous state. But Argon has a boiling point similar to that of oxygen (–186°C) and hence a significant amount of Argon liquifies along with Oxygen.The resultant mixture of Oxygen and Argon is drained, decompressed and passed through a second low-pressure distillation vessel for further purification.We then get the output as final purified liquid oxygen, which is then transported using cryogenic containers.What are cryogenic containers?Cryogenics is the production and behaviour of materials at very low temperatures. A cryogenic liquid is defined as a liquid with a normal boiling point below –90°C.Cryogenic liquid containers are specially designed for safe and economic transportation and storage of liquefied gases at cryogenic temperatures, lower than –90°C. These containers are highly insulated, in which liquid gases are stored at very low temperatures.What is the Pressure Swing Absorption Technique?Oxygen can also be produced non-cryogenically, in gaseous form, using selective adsorption. This method leverages the property that under high pressure, gases tend to be attracted to solid surfaces. The higher the pressure, the more the adsorption of gas.If a gas mixture such as air is passed under pressure through a vessel containing an adsorbent bed of ‘zeolite’ that attracts nitrogen more strongly than oxygen, a part or all of the nitrogen will stay in the bed, and the gas exiting the vessel will be richer in oxygen, relative to the mixture entering the vessel.Hospitals can also opt for on-site generation of oxygen by this method, where oxygen is produced from ambient air by concentrating it. Producing oxygen near hospitals has the additional advantage of eliminating the need for transportation.In addition to the above sources of medical oxygen, there are also portable oxygen generators known as Oxygen Concentrators that can be used at home.What are the safety precautions to be followed?If the temperature is high enough, many substances will burn in oxygen. Hence, it is equally essential to ensure proper fire safety measures and train all staff in the safe handling of oxygen as the increased storage and handling of oxygen cylinders during Covid-19 heightens the risk of hospital fires.There are also additional requirements and rules for medical oxygen, including requiring a person to have a prescription to order medical oxygen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-to-use-oxygen-for-covid-19-treatment-what-are-the-safety-precautions-centre-releases-guidelines-101620281352922.html
06-05-2021||India||RTI filed on government use of 'facial recognition' in airports, Covid-19 vaccination||The Internet Freedom Foundation (IFF), a non-governmental organisation advocating for digital liberty, on Wednesday published its monthly Right to Information (RTI) report for April. The group has demanded transparency from various governmental entities regarding the use of 'facial recognition' technology, reportedly in use at various airports across India, and on the government's plans on using such technology for a 'touchless' vaccination process.Also Read: Why India must resist facial recognition tech | OpinionThe IFF is also keeping a close watch on free speech violations, and demanded accountability from the Centre over Twitter removing 50 posts from its platform last month on government requests. Most of these posts were related to the government's handling of the Covid-19 pandemic, and the foundation demanded a response from the government over "violations of free speech on the internet."The foundation, which runs campaigns to defend online freedom and data privacy, said that it has filed six RTI requests this month, pertaining to the newly introduced government projects. "Under IFF’s Project Panoptic, we routinely file RTI requests with various public authorities after we come across news reports that they are developing or using facial recognition technology," the IFF report read.According to the Internet Freedom Foundation, the RTI requests demanding transparency on the government's use of 'facial recognition' technology relate to five distinct public projects. These are listed as follows:The Hindustan Times earlier reported that work was underway at the Varanasi and Pune airports to install automated passenger-based facial recognition systems, that the government says will ensure "hassle-free movement of travellers from entry to boarding points." The government says walk-through security scanners, once capable of identifying passengers by their faces, will make entry into the airport faster and ensure automated check-ins without the requirement of any paper-based intervention. Details of passengers provided at the time of booking tickets will be examined digitally through their Aadhaar numbers.In its RTI applications, the Internet Freedom Foundation has demanded to know the specific purposes for which facial recognition technology will be used by the government entities, the legislation which authorises them to do so, and the total expenditure incurred to procure such technology. The IFF has also sought a bunch of other information, including the list of persons authorised to access the technology, the software and hardware being used, and details of the database.Complete details on the RTI requests can be found here, on the official website of the Internet Freedom Foundation.Moreover, one more RTI request was also filed with the department of agriculture, cooperation and farmers welfare on the memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Microsoft for a pilot project in 100 villages of six states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/internet-freedom-foundation-rti-report-government-use-of-facial-recognition-technology-in-airports-coronavirus-covid-19-vaccination-101620276808052.html
06-05-2021||India||Russia sending another batch of 150,000 Sputnik V vaccines to India||Living up to its expectation as a trusted Indian strategic partner, Russia is sending another 150,000 doses of Sputnik V vaccines in the next two days, while another three million doses will be landing in Hyderabad with partner Dr Reddy’s Laboratories by May-end. Moscow has decided to ramp up Sputnik V doses to more than five million next month and more than 10 million vaccines in July.According to diplomats based in New Delhi and Moscow, Russia is sending at least four medium oxygen generating trucks, which can feed a 200-bed hospital after being plugged into the power supply. These trucks produce 70 kilograms of oxygen per hour and 50,000 litres per day so that there is no paucity of oxygen at the hospital to which they are attached. “We have already procured four such trucks and getting more so that oxygen paucity is reduced. These trucks will be landing by Russian IL-76 aircraft by the end of this week,” said a diplomat.The first batch of 150,000 doses of Sputnik V arrived on May 1, the day when India opened its third phase of vaccination to people between the age group of 18 to 44 years. Sputnik V is based on human adenoviral vectors, is one of three vaccines (the other two are Pfizer and Moderna) that have an efficacy of over 90 per cent against the coronavirus disease, which is caused by SARS-CoV-2. It was given regulatory approval or restricted use authorisation in India on April 12.The Russian medical support can be seen at Kalawati Hospital in Delhi with 75 ventilators, 20 large capacity oxygen concentrators and 150-bed monitors being installed at the Central Delhi hospital. Besides 60 large oxygen concentrators already on way through private donation, Russia has supplied 200,000 tablets of Fafivir drug, used for treating early stages of coronavirus, to all central AIIMS facilities in north India.While Russia is keen to supply Remdesivir vials also, the Indian regulators simultaneously working out minor regulatory issues like getting the vials of Sputnik V labelled in English apart from the overall packaging. “New Delhi and Moscow are constantly in touch with each other through the diplomatic channels so that medical support is available on demand as much as possible,” said an Indian diplomat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/russia-sending-another-batch-of-150-000-sputnik-v-vaccines-to-india-101620279218533.html
06-05-2021||India||Former Union minister and RLD chief Ajit Singh dies of Covid-19||Former Union minister and Rashtriya Lok Dal chief Ajit Singh, 82, passed away on Thursday days after he was tested positive for Covid-19. He was admitted to a private hospital in Gurugram on Tuesday after his health deteriorated due to a lung infection. In a tweet, Singh’s son, Jayant Chaudhary, said, “Chaudhary Ajit Singh ji was diagnosed as Covid positive on April 20. He battled his condition till the very end and breathed his last today [Thursday] morning.”Chaudhary urged people to pay their tributes at their homes considering the pandemic. “This will be the best way to honour Chaudhary Sahab as well as all those Covid warriors who are working day and night.”Son of former Prime Minister Chaudhary Charan Singh, Ajit Singh was a seven-time Parliament member from Baghpat in Uttar Pradesh.Also Watch | ‘All options being discussed’: Govt on nationwide lockdown amid Covid crisisTributes poured in for Singh as the news of his death broke. In a tweet, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said: “I am saddened by the demise of former Union Minister Chaudhary Ajit Singh ji. He has always been a supporter of the farmers and was dedicated to their cause. He has efficiently fulfilled the responsibilities of several departments at the centre. I express my condolences to his family in this hour of mourning. Om Shanti!.”Former Jammu & Kashmir chief minister Omar Abdullah tweeted: “Shocked to hear of the demise of Ajit Singh ji. I can’t begin to imagine what you are going through @jayantrld. I join my father, who had a long & warm association with your father, in sending our condolences & prayers.”In a tweet, Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala said: “My mind is deeply upset by the sad news of the demise of Chaudhary Ajit Singh, the sympathizer of the farmers and the son of the earth. The voice of the farmers has suffered a massive loss today. Every warrior who accompanies us in every struggle of agriculture will always be in our memory. My deepest condolences. May God give the family strength during these harsh times.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-union-minister-and-rld-chief-ajit-singh-dies-of-covid19-101620278749606.html
06-05-2021||India||PM Modi, Rahul Gandhi among leaders who condole Ajit Singh's death||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi were among the politicians who expressed their condolences on the death of former Union minister Chaudhary Ajit Singh. The Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) chief was diagnosed with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on April 20 and passed away on Thursday at the age of 82."The death of former Union Minister Chaudhary Ajit Singh ji is extremely sad. He was always devoted to the interests of the farmers. He efficiently discharged the responsibilities of several departments at the center. My condolences to his family and fans in this hour of mourning. om Shanti!" PM Modi said on Twitter.Also Read: Chaudhary Ajit Singh, former Union minister, dies of Covid-19Ajit Singh was a seven-time member of Parliament and the son of former PM of India, Chaudhary Charan Singh."He battled his condition till the very end and breathed his last today morning," his son Jayant Chaudhary tweeted.pic.twitter.com/xIxgNh839Q"Throughout his life journey, Chaudhary Sahib was loved and respected by many. He, in turn, cherished this bond with all of you and gave his best consideration and efforts for your welfare," Jayant's note, shared on Twitter on behalf of his family, read.Congress' Rahul Gandhi also condoled the death of the leader. "The news of the untimely demise of Rashtriya Lok Dal chief Ajit Singh ji is sad. My condolences to his family and loved ones," he tweeted.Watch: Former union minister Ajit Singh dies of Covid; Prez, PM Modi condole demise﻿﻿Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Sharad Pawar said the leader stood for the rights of the farmers and was intrinsic to the 'secular fabric of India'."Saddened to know about the demise of former Union Minister and Rashtriya Lok Dal President Chaudhary Ajit Singh. He stood for the rights and welfare of farmers and upheld democratic values and secular fabric of India. My heartfelt condolences to his family members," Pawar tweeted.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said he was 'saddened' to know of the leader's demise. "The news of the death of former Union Minister and farmer leader Chaudhary Ajit Singh ji is very sad. God bless the departed soul. My condolences to his family and fans," he said on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-rahul-gandhi-among-leaders-who-condole-ajit-singh-s-death-101620275579940.html
06-05-2021||India||Rights panel chief cautions against social media posts about orphaned children||National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) chairperson Priyank Kanoongo has cautioned against social media posts seeking help or donations for children, who may have lost their parents to the Covid-19 pandemic. “People must understand the procedure. Right now, the need of the hour is to ensure that the children must be produced before the child welfare committees. Each child’s case will require a different sort of intervention and will be analysed separately. Whether the children are taken to a welfare home or sent to reside with a relative, all will be decided on a case-to-case basis,” said Kanoongo on Wednesday.Kanoongo said adoptions cannot be done without going through proper channels. The Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act also empowers the district magistrates to authorise adoptions.Kanoongo said the NCPCR has written to states to ensure timely involvement in cases of orphaned children. NCPCR has also called for roping in frontline workers, police officials, NGOs, and even NITI Aayog to help vulnerable children.“We have asked the states to apprise us of how many children may have been exposed to such a difficult situation due to the pandemic...,” Kanoongo said.Also Read | Maharashtra opens two helplines to check fake child adoption messages going viral on social mediaIn its letter dated May 2, a copy of which HT has seen, NCPCR directed the states to ask NGOs to share the details of children who have lost their parents. “The Commission has been made aware of instances where it has been seen that many NGOs are advertising about the children who have become orphan... In such a sad situation of the surge in COVID-19 cases in the country, there are situations arising where the child has lost both its parents and is found to be abandoned,” NCPCR said in the letter. “It is of utmost importance that these children who have lost their family support must be produced before the child protection authorities of the district and information about these children must be shared with the authorities.”Union minister Smriti Irani on Tuesday asked people to alert the authorities about vulnerable children. “If you come to know of any child who has lost both parents to Covid and has no one to take care of her/him, inform Police or Child Welfare Committee of your district or contact Childline 1098. It is your legal responsibility,” Irani tweeted. “It is illegal to give or take orphan children of anyone else in adoption. Such children should be taken to child welfare committee, which will take necessary action in the best interest of the child.”Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights on Tuesday said orphaned children are vulnerable to trafficking.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rights-panel-chief-cautions-against-social-media-posts-about-orphaned-children-101620274968931.html
06-05-2021||India||Samajwadi Party says it won UP panchayat polls, will target assembly polls next||The Samajwadi Party (SP) on Wednesday claimed to have defeated the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the recently concluded three-tier panchayat polls in Uttar Pradesh with party backed candidates winning over 800 zila panchayat member seats. It also claimed that the results were a verdict on the BJP’s ‘misrule’ ahead of the 2022 assembly elections. The BJP disputed the SP’s claims and said it will “emerge as the overall leader” in the polls.Declaring victory, SP state spokesperson and former UP minister Rajendra Chaudhary said the party “will not waste energy in countering BJP’s horse-trading” to win zila panchayat headship elections that will follow the declaration of panchayat election results.“We would rather capitalise on putting up an even more impressive show in the UP assembly polls in 2022,” he said. Zila (district) panchayat headship is an indirect election in which the directly elected Zila panchayat members vote to gain administrative control. The election for over 8.69 lakh posts, including the 3,050 Zila panchayat member seats, was held in four phases last month in Uttar Pradesh. The three-tier panchayat system elected public representatives from the village to the district level and was being seen as a curtain-raiser to the 2022 state assembly polls.“Seventy per cent population lives in villages and they have given their mandate against the BJP and in favour of the SP already. We had fielded party supported candidates on approximately 1,500 zila panchayat member seats, of which more than 800 won. Not only this, party’s national president Akhilesh Yadav’s strategy of leaving ‘free candidates’... also worked,” said Chaudhary. The panchayat elections were not fought on party symbols, but rival parties had marked their preferred candidates.Chaudhary explained that the term ‘free candidate’ is used to describe party supported candidates. “If there are more than one deserving candidate... then the party let’s all of them contest. If anyone of them wins, it becomes the party’s victory. On more than 800 seats, SP’s free candidates won the zila panchayat memberships”, he explained. However, the UP BJP chief Swatantradev Singh dismissed his claims. “We fought on more than 3,000 seats for the post of zila panchayat members. The claims of opposition parties that the BJP performed badly are incorrect. We will remain ahead, and emerge as overall leader in the polls,” he was quoted as saying by a news agency. On Monday, the ruling party had claimed that over 45,000 party-supported candidates won the village pradhan posts and over 60,000 were elected to the kshetra (block) panchayats apart from the zila panchayat member posts.As per the results announced on Tuesday, the BJP faced losses in strongholds such as Ayodhya, Varanasi, Lucknow and Gorakhpur. In Varanasi, while the Samajwadi Party won 15 of the 40 wards, BJP and the BSP won seven each and the Congress won five wards. In Ayodhya, SP was the biggest gainer with 24 of the 40 wards, while BJP won six and BSP won five wards. In Gorakhpur, the BJP with 20 of the 68 wards had just one more than the SP’s 19. SP president Akhilesh Yadav alleged on Wednesday that the BJP was indulging in “horse-trading” to seize control of zila panchayats.“After tasting defeat in the panchayat polls, the BJP is now engaging in enticing, intimidating and threatening winners to win the indirect elections,” he said in a statement released by the party. Another party leader claimed that the Samajwadi Party would easily win 25 zila panchayat headship elections. “There is no need to waste energy on the rest of the seats,” he said. The party hopes to win zila panchayat headship in Lucknow, Ayodhya, Lakhimpur Kheri, Sonbhadra, Varanasi, Azamgarh, Prayagraj, Siddharth Nagar, Jaunpur, Ghazipur, Deoria, Kushinagar, Kanpur Nagar, Mirzapur, Ballia, Bijnor, Etawah, Fatehpur, Unnao, Auriya, Ambedkarnagar, Firozabad, Kasganj, and Etah. SP spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary said the results showed that the ruling BJP had “failed miserably on all fronts” and described the party as “anti-farmers, anti-youth.” He added that crime against women in the state, law and order [situation], price rise including petrol and diesel prices affect villagers immensely, which resulted in the SP’s win. SP member of legislative council (MLC) Sunil Singh Yadav described it as the “beginning of the change”. “The training camps that the party president Akhilesh Yadav ran across the state and attended, foot marches, and events like Kisaan Ghera in villages connected people with his vision,” he says. Samajwadi Party ran various campaigns such as Kisan Ghera (informal meetings with farmers locally) to mobilise farmers against the three farm reform laws enacted by the BJP-led Union government, held exploitative by a section of farmers. Similarly, it also organised ‘Yuva Ghera’ and ‘Mahila Ghera’ programmes to engage students and the women folk in discussions involving their issues. Akhilesh also travelled widely across 40 districts and held meetings, addressed the public and conducted cadre training camps. 270 Congress-supported candidates emerged victorious on the post of zila panchayat members, while on 571 seats they came second, and third on 711 seats, said a Congress leader.AAP claimed it had won 83 seats for members of zila panchayat, 300 village pradhans seats, and 232 seats for the post of members of kshetra panchayats.SP’s ally Rashtriya Lok Dal too performed well in some districts of west UP, such as Baghpat and Shamli.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/samajwadi-party-says-it-won-up-panchayat-polls-will-target-assembly-polls-next-101620274188832.html
06-05-2021||India||412,262 fresh Covid-19 cases take India's tally to over 21 million||A day after the government said a third wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) was inevitable in India, the country recorded 412,262 fresh cases and 3,980 new deaths due to the virus. With this, India's total infection tally went up to 21,077,410 and its death toll was pushed to 230,168, according to the Union health ministry dashboard.The country, reeling under a highly infectious second wave, had registered over 300,000 cases in 24 hours for over two weeks before crossing the 4-lakh mark on Thursday. The daily death toll too, which crossed 3,000 on April 28, has stayed over the mark for over a week. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageMeanwhile, 17,280,844 people have recovered from the disease till date and the country has 35,663,98 active cases. This means that the Covid-19 recovery rate has dropped to 81.99 per cent and the active cases comprise 16.92 per cent of the total infections.As many as 16,25,13,339 people have been vaccinated against the virus, according to the health ministry, with 19,55,733 of them being inoculated in the last 24 hours. Also Read: How different will Covid's 3rd wave be from first two? What government says﻿India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 70 lakh-mark on October 11, 80 lakh- mark on October 29 and 90 lakh-mark on November 20. The tally had surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19 and crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4.According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), as many as 29,67,75,209 samples have been tested for the virus till May 5 and out of these 19,23,131 samples were tested on Wednesday, news agency ANI said.According to experts, the country should continue following the coronavirus-appropriate behaviour such as observing social distancing and wearing masks in face of the approaching third wave as these measures will help guard us against all variants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/412262-fresh-covid-19-cases-take-india-s-tally-to-over-21-million-101620268094578.html
06-05-2021||India||Chaudhary Ajit Singh, former Union minister, dies of Covid-19||Chaudhary Ajit Singh, former Union minister and chief of the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD), passed away on Thursday of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). He was the son of the late Chaudhary Charan Singh, former Prime Minister of India.Chaudhary Ajit Singh passed away on Thursday at the age of 82. He had tested positive for Covid-19 on April 20, news agency ANI reported, adding that the development was confirmed by Jayant Chaudhary, his son.Rashtriya Lok Dal President Chaudhary Ajit Singh passes away, confirms Jayant ChaudharyHe had tested positive for COVID19 on April 20 pic.twitter.com/TfNE5cimE4Chaudhary Ajit Singh began his political career as a Rajya Sabha MP in 1986, after his father fell ill. At several points throughout the later years, Ajit Singh played a key role in government formations by bringing in alliances between political parties.Ajit Singh was the Union minister of industry in former Prime Minister VP Singh's cabinet from December 1989 to November 1990. He later served as the Union minister of food in the PV Narasimha Rao cabinet and again as the minister of agriculture from 2001 to 2003 in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government. When his party joined the ruling United Progressive Alliance (UPA) in 2011, Chaudhary Ajit Singh came on board to serve as the Union minister of civil aviation from December 2011 to May 2014.At various points in his political career, Ajit Singh also served as a member of the central committees on finance and government assurances, as well as in the central committee on chemicals and fertilisers.Chaudhary Ajit Singh is survived by his son, Jayant Chaudhary, and two daughters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chaudhary-ajit-singh-former-union-minister-dies-of-covid19-101620272746804.html
06-05-2021||India||Vaccination in 18-44 yrs yet to pick pace; 11 states, J&K have begun inoculating||The Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccination among young adults in the 18-44 years category has not really picked up in the country, with only about 700,000 individuals having received their first dose in five days across just 12 states, shows government data.“671,285 beneficiaries of the age group 18-44 years received their first dose of Covid vaccine across 12 states,” said Union health ministry in a statement.The states that have begun vaccinating adults between the age group of 18 and 44 years are Chhattisgarh (1,026), Delhi (82,000), Gujarat (161,625), Jammu and Kashmir (10,885), Haryana (99,680), Karnataka (3,840), Maharashtra (111,621), Odisha (13,768), Punjab (908), Rajasthan (130,071), Tamil Nadu (4,577) and UP (51,284).Also Read | UN says 155 million people faced acute hunger in 2020, may be worse this yearCumulatively, 1.6 million (160,494,188) vaccine doses have been administered through 2,366,349 sessions, as per the provisional government data released on Monday.These include about 9.5 million (9,462,505) healthcare workers who have taken the first dose, and about 6.3 million (6,322,055) healthcare workers who have taken the second dose. About 13.5 million (13,565,728) frontline workers have received their first vaccine dose, and nearly 7.3 million (7,332,999) have so far been fully vaccinated. About 12 million (12,385,466) elderly above 60 years of age are fully vaccinated in the country as it is the population group that is most at risk of developing severe form of Covid-19.India began its nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive on January 16 this year. The first category to receive the jab was healthcare workers, and from February 2, government opened the service up for all frontline workers, too.From March 1, the health ministry further expanded the vaccination services for age-appropriate population wherein all beneficiaries above 60 years of age, and those above 45 years but with specified comorbidities were eligible to take the shot.The Centre further opened up Covid-19 vaccination coverage for everyone above 45 years irrespective of the comorbidities, as Covid-19 related death was higher in this population group. All vaccinations above the age of 45 years are fully funded by the Central government. On May 1, the government further expanded the coverage to include all adults.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccination-in-18-44-yrs-yet-to-pick-pace-11-states-j-k-have-begun-inoculating-101620272628546.html
06-05-2021||India||'If vaccine makers are threatened': Lawyer seeks Z security for Adar Poonawalla||A Mumbai-based lawyer has filed a writ petition in the Bombay high court seeking z+ security for Serum Institute of India CEO Adar Poonawalla who, in an interview to a British newspaper, talked about life threats in India for vaccines against Covid-. In his petition, advocate Datta Mane sought protection for Adar's family members and the properties of Serum Institute of India as well, Livelaw reported."If vaccine makers are threatened with life, then they will not be able to produce a vaccine to its fullest resources...If Mr Adar Poonawalla is out of India due to fear to his life, then it will be Ship in Storm without its Captain. Mr Poonawalla and SII have become lifesavers of the Indian population and hence the government must protect them. However, the chief ministers have indulged into giving threats; hence the court-monitored security protection is required to be given," the plea said.Last month, the Union home ministry accorded Y category security to Poonawalla after Serum Institute of India director Prakash Kumar Singh wrote to Union home minister Amit Shah. In his letter, he claimed that Poonwalla was getting threats from various groups. As India began the third phase of vaccination, extending the jabs to people between the age group of 18 and 44 years, and allowing state governments and private hospitals to procure vaccines directly from vaccine makers, vaccines are in high demand. As states are yet to receive fresh doses, the third phase vaccination drive has not begun in full swing in many states.Adar Poonawalla faced controversy over differential pricing of vaccines between the Centre and the state governments. Initially, one dose of Covishield was priced at ₹400 for state governments, which was later brought down to ₹300.Claiming pressure from several influential people for vaccines, Adar Poonawalla told The Times that he had been receiving aggressive calls from some of the most powerful people in India, demanding supplies of Covishield.As the Maharashtra government assured of a detailed probe into Adar Poonawalla's complaint, if he formally lodges one, the government said it did not have any word with Poonawalla after he went to London, regarding vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-vaccine-makers-are-threatened-lawyer-seeks-z-security-for-adar-poonawalla-101620271836949.html
06-05-2021||India||News updates from HT:Lucknow boys are burying abandoned bodies of Covid patients||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Lucknow boys are burying abandoned bodies of Covid-19 patientsMahesh Chandra Agarwal, 84, a resident of Rajajipuram in Lucknow died due to corona last Sunday but there was no one around to conduct his last rites. His daughter browsed social media and contacted a 23-year-old, who along with his friends offered to cremate Agarwal’s infected body with dignity. Read more.How different will Covid's 3rd wave be from first two? What government saysVariants are only one factor of the huge second wave of the Covid-19 that is sweeping the country now, the government's principal scientific advisor K Vijay Raghavan said on Wednesday. Read more.3 terrorists killed in encounter with security forces in J-K's Shopian districtThree terrorists were killed after an encounter broke out between security forces and terrorists in Shopian district of Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday, police said. The terrorists were shot dead after they refused to surrender and opened fire on being trapped and surrounded in the Kanigam area of the district, Kashmir Police said in a tweet. Read more.After IPL sunset, stars head backBy mid-day on Wednesday—or exactly 24 hours since IPL 14 was indefinitely suspended—every Rajasthan Royals player had either made his way home or was mid-air and homebound, thanks to a high-functioning logistics team within the franchise. Read more.Lucky Ali responds to death hoax: 'Resting in peace at home haha'Popular singer Lucky Ali has said that he is healthy and alive. The response comes after rumours of his Covid-19 diagnosis and death had surfaced online earlier this week. Taking to Instagram Stories on Wednesday, Lucky shared a witty clarification for his fans and followers. Read more.Nora Fatehi is as glam as it gets in bodycon blue evening dress with a bold red lipEvening dresses and Nora Fatehi are a match made in heaven. The actor has lately been slaying in so many monochrome bodycon outfits and inspiring her fans to upgrade their wardrobes while adding a touch of oomph to their looks. Even though we are not heading out anywhere any time soon, we are surely bookmarking the Bharat actor's latest outfit for future purposes. Read more.Watch: India receives 1056 ventilators & 43 oxygen concentrators from AustraliaIndia received Covid-19 medical aid from Australia on May 5. A flight with 1056 ventilators & 43 oxygen concentrators arrived in Delhi. The Ministry of External Affairs expressed gratitude to Australia for this gesture. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-lucknow-boys-are-burying-abandoned-bodies-of-covid-patients-101620271383190.html
06-05-2021||India||Maharashtra breaches 900-death mark for second time||Maharashtra on Wednesday breached the 900-death mark for the second time since the Covid-19 outbreak as it recorded 57,640 cases and 920 fatalities. The highest fatalities (985) were reported on April 28. The toll from the pandemic has now reached 72,662 in the state. Mumbai has recorded the most fatalities (13,511) followed by Pune (9,863).The state has 6,41,596 active cases with the highest in Pune (1,14,254), followed by Nagpur (58,944).Also Read | How different will Covid’s 3rd wave be from first two? What government saysTatyarao Lahane, director, directorate of medical education and research, said the deaths will stabilise in the coming days. “Most of these patients have been ill for over two weeks and the treatment was delayed. In addition, many of them had already been suffering from medical complications and the virus made it worse,” said Lahane. “...the death rate will come down in the coming days as the new cases are coming down.”Jeevan Jain, a physician, said the current strain of Covid-19 is highly infective and lethal. “In the second wave, we are seeing the new variant of Covid-19 directly affecting the lungs, which was not the case last year. This is proving to be fatal. Last year, the fever hardly exceeded 100-degree Fahrenheit but this time it is not coming down for a long time. The range of fever now goes up to 103-104-degree Fahrenheit,” said Jain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-breaches-900-death-mark-for-second-time-101620270408429.html
06-05-2021||India||Rain, thunderstorms likely over parts of NW India||Rain and thunderstorms are likely over the western Himalayan region and parts of adjoining northwest India during the next 4-5 days, according to the India Meteorological Department.Under the influence of a Western Disturbance, along with isolated rain over plains, heavy rainfall is also very likely over Uttarakhand on May 5 and 6 and over Himachal Pradesh on May 6.An east-west trough (line of low pressure) is running from Punjab to Assam at lower levels. This east-west trough is very likely to persist during the next 3-4 days. There is a trough (line of low pressure) in westerlies also.Under their influence, fairly widespread to widespread rainfall/thunderstorm activity is very likely over northeastern states and West Bengal, Sikkim; and scattered rain or thundershower likely over the rest parts of east India during the next 4-5 days. Isolated heavy rainfall is also likely over Arunachal Pradesh during May 6 to 9, Assam & Meghalaya during May 5 to 9 and Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram & Tripura during 7 to 9; sub Himalayan West Bengal & Sikkim from May 5 to 8; Thunderstorm and lightning activity accompanied with gusty winds are also likely over most parts of the above regions during next 4-5 days.Under the influence of a cyclonic circulation over north interior Karnataka and a north-south trough over south Peninsula at lower levels, light or moderate scattered to fairly widespread rain or thunder is very likely over Kerala & Mahe, Lakshadweep and Coastal and south Interior Karnataka; and isolated rain or thundershower over the rest of south Peninsular India during the next 5 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-thunderstorms-likely-over-parts-of-nw-india-101620269688386.html
06-05-2021||India||How different will Covid's 3rd wave be from first two? What government says||Variants are only one factor of the huge second wave of the Covid-19 that is sweeping the country now, the government's principal scientific advisor K Vijay Raghavan said on Wednesday. As new variants of a virus are natural, the existing variants will make way for new variants which may or may not be more virulent, but variants should not make any difference in people's primary approach to combat Covid-19, which should consist of maintaining social distancing, the expert said. While in 2019 and 2020, the virus continued to be a generalist, like a key that can be fitted into many locks, the virus in 2021 became much fitter and efficient as it is trying a "hit and run lifestyle" to gain entry to the human body. In the coming days, the virus will become more efficient as immunity, vaccination are building adaptive pressure on the virus. Here is what the government said about the various waves of the pandemic:> The first wave halted as a combination of a standing level of immunity in the population and cautionary steps.> The second wave started because new opportunities for the spread of the infection come up. When the guard drops, the immunity is sometimes not enough to stop the infection from spreading.> Many people get infected until a new threshold of immunity is reached.> Such a second wave is typically smaller than the first wave. Such a second wave was expected. However, multiple parameters can change in small amounts and add up to a second wave which is much larger than the first wave.> Such a larger second wave with such ferocity was not predicted.Third wave of Covid inevitable, says government> Immunity, developed after the first wave, is not widespread. The number of people who remained unaffected because of cautionary steps taken in the first step may have been large. Immunity can also fade. Someone infected earlier can get reinfected but we know that the protection is still very high after eight months.> In 2019, when the virus emerged, it was a generalist. It could infect many mammals and was not a tightly human-adaptive virus. The lineage continued for a long period. In the second phase, which started in October 2020, the virus became fitter. "It was a key that could fit many locks," the expert said adding that with the increase in the transmission, the key became more refined.> In early 2021, a very large number of people all over the world had been infected. As the immunity increases, the virus does not have the opportunity to grow. But it sees that there are pockets it can go through and therefore there's selection through evolution for the viruses to be more efficient in transmission. In the second phase, efficiency has been selected because of already present immunity in the population. The virus will thus find new routes.> A phase 3 is inevitable given the high levels of circulating virus, but the time scale is not yet clear.> On immunity getting eroded by the evolution of SARS-CoV-2, experts said it is positioned somewhere between measles and influenza. Measles immunity never gets eroded while that for influenza gets depleted rapidly. The viral evolution of SARS-CoV-2 is somewhere in between but will change.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-did-first-two-waves-of-covid-subside-what-government-says-on-3rd-wave-101620265451308.html
06-05-2021||India||NIA files chargesheet against 3 in LeT recruitment module case||The National Investigative Agency (NIA) on Wednesday filed a charge sheet against three operatives of the Lashkar-e-Taiba in the LeT online recruitment module case.As per a statement, the NIA filed first a supplementary charge-sheet before the NIA Special Court, Kolkata in connection with the West Bengal LeT online recruitment module case against three -Tania Parveen, Sayyad M Idris, and Ayesha.The case was initially registered at the Baduria Police Station on March 18 last year relating to the arrest of Tania Parveen, a member of the proscribed terrorist organization."Parveen was a college student and was radicalised and recruited in cyberspace by Pakistan based cadres of LeT. She was co-admin of various social media groups espousing secessionist ideas on Kashmir with accused Ayesha Burhan a Pakistan-based cadre of LeT's Women's wing. Tania Parveen in association with other accused members of LeT in India and Pakistan indulged in unlawful activities, radicalised, recruited and motivated other people through cyberspace for Jihad against India," the statement said.Further investigation is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-files-chargesheet-against-3-in-let-recruitment-module-case-101620264136071.html
06-05-2021||India||3 terrorists killed in encounter with security forces in J-K's Shopian district||Three terrorists were killed after an encounter broke out between security forces and terrorists in Shopian district of Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday, police said. The terrorists were shot dead after they refused to surrender and opened fire on being trapped and surrounded in the Kanigam area of the district, Kashmir Police said in a tweet.#ShopianEncounterUpdate: 03 #terrorists killed. Search going on. Further details shall follow. @JmuKmrPolice https://t.co/R2A04wT7lp"J&K police say four newly recruited local terrorists of Al-Badr terror outfit trapped in Kanigam area of Shopian. Exercising maximum restraint, Police & security forces are trying their best to persuade them to surrender," the police tweeted."Turning down the surrender offer, trapped terrorists fired and lobbed grenade on joint search party. Further details shall follow, " they said in another tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/encounter-breaks-out-between-security-forces-and-militants-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-shopian-101620261688890.html
06-05-2021||India||Value criticism, don’t spread rumours or argue with users: Centre to police forces||A social media policy prepared by the Centre for police forces across the country has asked personnel to value criticism and appreciation equally, and avoid propagating unverified facts and frivolous or misleading rumours while using social media.The policy, prepared by ministry of home affairs’ police think-tank – Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPRD), and shared with all the states last month, encourages use of social media by the police officers to reach a broad audience and spread the word about department’s work, but cautions them about conducting any “political activities or private business”.It says that the “online activity [of police officers] during working hours or using agency equipment must be primarily business related”.The “Social Media Policy for Police Organisations”, reviewed by HT, is a comprehensive document on the “dos and don’ts” for police departments – both in the states and the Centre, and aims to help police in image-building and bridging the trust deficit with the public. The army already has its social media policy in place since 2005.On personal social media accounts of police personnel, the BPRD policy says: “Department personnel are free to express themselves as private citizens on social media sites to the degree that their speech does not impair working relationships of this department for which loyalty and confidentiality are important, impede the performance of duties, impair discipline and harmony among co-workers, or negatively affect the public perception of the department.”It says police personnel should not post messages that may be prejudicial to court proceedings, abusive, defamatory, harmful, obscene, racially offensive, sexually offensive, and unlawful.“Show proper consideration for others’ privacy and for topics that may be considered objectionable or inflammatory — such as politics, religion and personal life,” the policy states.It asks cops not to make “statements about the guilt or innocence of any suspect or arrestee, or comments concerning pending prosecutions, nor post, transmit, or otherwise disseminate confidential information, including photographs or videos, related to departmental training, activities, or work-related assignments without express written permission”.Police officers using social media platforms such as Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or other accounts, the policy adds, should not argue with social media users/followers. Also, while responding to a negative post from a user, the cops should provide facts and supporting documentation.“Value criticism and appreciation equally on social media. Be the first to correct your own mistakes. Do not alter previous posts without indicating that you have done so. When responding to a negative post, state facts and provide supporting documentation. Avoid ongoing conversations that do not progress toward greater understanding,” the policy says.Experts welcomed the policy. “A police officer is a government servant and is bound by service rules. Hence, it is necessary that police officers must watch what they are writing or saying on social media, even through their personal accounts, because anything they say is invariably taken as view of the government,” retired IPS officer Karnal Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/value-criticism-don-t-spread-rumours-or-argue-with-users-centre-to-police-forces-101620261234532.html
06-05-2021||India||Ensure Delhi gets 700 MT O2 every day: Top court to Centre||The Supreme Court on Wednesday directed the Union government to ensure 700 metric tonne (MT) of medical oxygen is supplied to Delhi every day, stating that even its judges feel “helpless” after hearing cries of people suffering due to shortage of oxygen, beds, and essential medicines in the national capital. It asked the Centre to submit a plan in the court by Thursday morning detailing how this target would be met, including logistical details.The bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and MR Shah also stayed the contempt proceedings initiated by the Delhi high court against the Centre on Tuesday over deficit in oxygen supply, but not before clarifying that this is contingent on the Union government’s admission that the court order of May 2 required the Centre to supply 700 MT of oxygen to Delhi until further orders.“We are not only judges but also citizens of this country. I and justice Shah have been continuously on phone trying to come up with some solution by using our good offices. But we are also helpless. So, we can understand what a common man and citizens feel. We are ultimately answerable to the people,” the bench told solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who represented the Centre.Mehta requested that the court not insist on 700 MT for Delhi, adding that the Centre will try to supply as much as possible,but the bench declined to accept such a suggestion.“We can’t accept this as an institutional response. Situation of Delhi is really critical. We are answerable to the citizens, and we know with 550 MT (the amount that reached Delhi on Tuesday), what is happening on the ground. Our friendships are limited because of our positions, but our offices are getting numerous calls, and the lawyers and others are crying. They plead ‘please do something’. When 550 MT is not solving the problem of Delhi, we cannot review our orders... there is tremendous anxiety on the part of the citizens to run from pillar to post for oxygen and cylinders,” it told the S-G.Mehta, on his part, pressed for an audit to figure out the real requirement of Delhi and optimal utilisation of medical oxygen before determining the final number. While the bench accepted the suggestion for having an audit and asked the Centre and Delhi government to suggest some names by Thursday morning for a panel that would examine this, it made it clear that the May 2 order on supplying 700 MT shall remain in force till the time this order is modified by specifying a higher or lower quantity.The Centre has consistently claimed that it cannot supply as much oxygen as Delhi wants, and also said that the Delhi government has not been able to transport supplies of oxygen allocated to it -- which is true; Delhi does not have the tankers required to do so.The oxygen crisis in the Capital has been due to the lower allocation by the Centre despite demands from the Delhi government for an enhanced oxygen quota, and the Delhi government’s failure to arrange for cryogenic tankers and trucks to lift even that allocated oxygen and seamlessly distribute it to its hospitals.‘National disaster’“Nobody can dispute it is a national disaster. Nobody can dispute there is a deficit of oxygen. Nobody can dispute some people have lost their lives due to shortage of oxygen... so, now let us ensure that lives are saved. We want you to ensure 700 MT is given between today and Monday (when the special bench takes up the matter initiated on its own) so that it takes the sting off the immediate humanitarian crisis in Delhi,” it said.The bench asked the S-G to submit a tabulated statement by 10.30am on Thursday, indicating the manner in which its order of supplying 700 MT oxygen to Delhi shall be complied with, and the details on sources of supply, transportation and other logistical arrangements. “This plan will remain in operation till further orders,” it ordered.Referring to the contempt proceedings initiated by the high court on Tuesday, the bench expressed displeasure at the Centre’s law officers trying to misinterpret the Supreme Court’s order on 700 MT (on Sunday) to wriggle out of the liability.“Why did your additional solicitors general tell the high court that we didn’t order for 700 MT? The problem is when your law officers argue like this and then you get into a crossfire. Tell your ASGs not to misinterpret the orders of the Supreme Court. The effort has to be to comply after our orders. Hauling up anyone in contempt will not get anybody oxygen in the country. We want the oxygen to come,” it told Mehta.“It must be clarified that taking recourse to contempt will not resolve the problems. The country is faced with a serious pandemic of unprecedented humanitarian crisis, the efforts of courts should be to have active engagement and cooperation of all stakeholders,” the bench noted in its order, as it stayed the contempt proceedings against the Centre. At the same time, the bench clarified that the Delhi high court shall continue to monitor the case before it relating to the supply of oxygen and other essential resources.‘Examine Mumbai model’The court also asked the officials of the Centre and Delhi government to have a meeting on Wednesday evening for a deliberation on supply and distribution of oxygen, besides also examining the “Mumbai model” of optimal utilisation of oxygen.The S-G cited the “Mumbai model”, pointing out that despite having a case load of 92,000 cases as on April 10, Mumbai made do with just 275 MT of oxygen. The city also made arrangements for a buffer storage for imminent requirements. The court said that the Delhi government should consider replicating this model for the national capital.The top court also urged the Centre to revisit its oxygen allocation policy, saying the existing quantum of allocations were chiefly linked to the number of ICU and non-ICU beds in a state but did not consider the requirement of patients who could not get beds in hospitals but required oxygen support. “Your allocation formula is not scientific but based on some generic assumptions,” it said.The bench also noted that the expert committee of the government did not include any eminent doctor associated with private hospitals, adding that it will consider setting up a committee on the next date of hearing for reviewing the formula of oxygen allocation.Raghav Chadha, MLA in-charge of overseeing the oxygen supply in Delhi, said that after the high court’s rebuke, the central government has given a maximum of 555MT oxygen a day to Delhi till date, while the city’s requirement is 976MT. He said that the Centre’s responsibility doesn’t end there and added that it should also provide cryogenic tankers to ensure the transportation of liquid medical oxygen.“The oxygen supplied to us yesterday (Tuesday), only 57% (555MT) of the needed amount of 976 MT, was not done via regular sources, but on ad hoc basis. It was a result of ‘jugad’ done by the Centre. It was not supplied to us via our identified sources... However, it was supplied only after the HC’s reprimand, through ad hoc and temporary means, like for example the trucks which were supposed to go to another state were diverted to the national capital… We really hope that we receive the oxygen with full certainty, and the plants which are designated to supply to us, must do so on a regular basis. It shouldn’t be occasional, wherein whenever the HC denounces the central government, they supply the oxygen to us on that same day or the next day…,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ensure-delhi-gets-700-mt-o2-every-day-top-court-to-centre-101620248289044.html
06-05-2021||India||Goa grapples with country’s highest positivity rate amid Covid-19 spike||India’s smallest state Goa which was among the last to impose restrictions in view of rising Covid-19 cases is now battling a high positivity rate -- 51.65% with 3,496 of the 6,769 tests conducted emerging positive. Goa’s increasingly grim Covid-19 situation has left the state’s health services on the brink of collapse. The state also recorded 71 deaths over a 24-hour period -- the highest single day death toll since the pandemic began last year. Goa has been grappling with high positivity rates with the positivity rate crossing the 50% mark for the first time on April 29 and it has consistently remained around the 45% mark since then. Goa’s average positivity rate for the week between April 26 and May 2 stood at 48% which was the highest in the country ahead of Haryana which stood at around 37%. Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant has said that he expects the positivity rate to come down over the next ten days as the effects of the state ramping up testing are yet to be seen. The Goa government has marginally increased testing from around 2,000 tests they were conducting per day since the first wave began to around 5-6,000 tests per day during the second wave. Long queues continue at testing centres with people having to wait for at least a couple of hours until they can be tested including at testing centres in the capital city. Goa avoided a major tragedy on Tuesday evening when the oxygen supply briefly ran out at a ward of the Goa Medical College and Hospital but was quickly restored after the chief minister’s intervention. On Wednesday, the state commissioned an additional 150 beds that will help some patients who have been lying on stretchers and made to sleep on the floor due to lack of beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-grapples-with-country-s-highest-positivity-rate-amid-covid-19-spike-101620246159687.html
06-05-2021||India||Kerala’s daily Covid-19 cases close to 42,000; CM Pinarayi Vijayan writes to Centre||With Covid-19 cases surging and hospitals overflowing with patients in Kerala, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday sent a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking additional liquid medical oxygen cylinders and vaccines.In terms of total cases of the viral infection, Kerala is at the third spot after Maharashtra and Karnataka. On Wednesday, the state reported 41,953 new cases with a test positivity rate of 25.69%. Though its fatality rate is the lowest in the country (below 0.4%) statistics show it is also climbing steadily in the last one week--58 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours. “We are going through a serious phase of the pandemic. Rising number of cases and TPR shows we have to tighten curbs further. We have asked private hospitals to strictly follow the health ministry’s admission norms,” said the CM addressing the media virtually. He said he sent a letter to Prime Minister Modi seeking more help to tide over the crisis. The chief minister said hostels, lodges and empty offices will be converted as first line treatment centres to meet the surge of patients. To avoid overcrowding of hospitals, he said, admission norms were being tweaked and only cases that need urgent medical care will be admitted. He also sought the help of NRIs-- the state has about 25 lakh people working abroad and 70 per cent of them are in West Asian countries. In his letter to the PM, Vijayan said medical oxygen storage in the state should be augmented urgently as there is an increased demand for life-saving medical gas. “To augment storage we need 1000 tonnes of imported liquid medical oxygen. The Ministry of External Affairs may be advised to allot required quantity partly from the current tranche of imports and balance from future imports,” he said. He also asked the PM to provide more oxygen concentrators, ventilators and other equipment on priority basis considering the high volume of cases. This is the first time the state has appealed to the Centre frantically. Kerala has so far vaccinated 74 lakh people, almost 20 per cent of its 3.25 crore population. The Union Health Ministry and PM had recently lauded its zero wastage of vaccines while in some states it is between 5 and 18 per cent. The CM has also requested the PM to send more vaccines--- 50 lakh doses of Covishield and 25 lakh Covaxin doses. Currently the state has a stock of 272.2 metric tonnes of liquid oxygen and it needs 108 mt of oxygen daily, health ministry statistics show. The government has also decided to deploy trainee doctors and nursing students to meet the shortage of medical staff and set up oxygen plants on war-footing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/keralas-daily-covid-19-cases-close-to-42-000-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-writes-to-centre-101620244959243.html
06-05-2021||India||K’taka breaches 50k mark in daily Covid cases||Bengaluru Karnataka on Wednesday witnessed its highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases as the state registered a record 50,112 new infections in 24 hours, according to the daily bulletin of the state health department. The positivity rate in the state also reached a new high as it jumped to 32.28%.The surge in cases took the state’s active case count closer to the 500,000 mark at 487,288 of which Bengaluru accounts for 313,314.There were 346 fatalities reported in 24 hours, including 161 in Bengaluru. Only three districts--Kodagu,Koppala and Yadgir-- out of the 30 districts in Karnataka did not report any fatalities on Wednesday.Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa has imposed lockdown-like restrictions across the state as a last ditch effort to contain the surge in the state.“We are waiting for directions (from Prime Minsiter Narendra Modi),” Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa said on Wednesday.The second wave in Karnataka is said to have begun around the first week of March when the state started to see a sharp spike. Bengaluru, which is one of the worst impacted regions in the country, bore the brunt of the second wave as the number of infections jumped from 6,813 in February to 31,886 in March to 338,360 in April. In the first five days of May, India’s IT capital has recorded nearly 88,000 new infections, according to data from the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP).The situation in other districts have also turned dire, going by government data. Experts have indicated that the next wave of infections may be seen in the other 29 districts of Karnataka, where medical infrastructure is far more inadequate than Bengaluru.There were 1,009 new infections in Chikamagaluru, 1,529 in Dakshina Kannada, 1030 in Dharwada, 1604 in Hassan, 1097 in Kalaburagi, 1115 in Kolar, 1621 in Mandya, 2790 in Mysuru, 2335 in Tumakuru and 1655 in Udupi district, according to the health bulletin.Chitradurga with 152 infections was the lowest in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ktaka-breaches-50k-mark-in-daily-covid-cases-101620242080855.html
06-05-2021||India||‘I did not control O2’: DC rejects allegations in Chamarajanagar deaths||Bengaluru Mysuru deputy commissioner Rohini Sindhuri on Wednesday refuted allegations that she rationed or controlled oxygen supplies to Chamarajanagar district where 24 Covid-19 patients at a government hospital died reportedly due to shortage of the life-saving gas earlier this week. Meanwhile, the Karnataka government appointed retired high court judge Justice B A Patil as the one-man commission to inquire into the death of the patients and sought a report within one month.The government also named a senior IAS officer to probe the incident and submit a report within three days.In a press note, Sindhuri said: “I categorically state that as Deputy Commissioner, Mysuru, I did not ration or control oxygen supplies to Chamarajanagar or any other district.” “It is the responsibility of the district to manage their own oxygen supplies,” she added. The deputy commissioner’s clarification came days after the Chamarajanagar administration alleged that Sindhuri had delayed the dispatch of oxygen as she retained most of it for use in her own district, which is one of the worst Covid-19 hit regions outside Bengaluru. Chamarajanagar deputy commissioner M R Ravi said that Sindhuri’s claims that the district had over 250 cyclinders of oxygen was false. He added that he had brought the matter to the attention of the chief secretary, district in-charge minister and the nodal officer but in vain.In her letter, Sindhuri said the supply of oxygen was a transaction solely between district authorities and suppliers or refillers and no other administration could intervene in this process. “If any supplier does not supply or the district needs are not met, the supervision and correction is (taken up) by the state level officers. The Chamarajanagar deputy commissioner should have coordinated with these state level officers and got his supplies. He failed to do that and is now blaming the Mysuru deputy commissioner,” Sindhuri alleged. “As a matter of fact, Mysuru district, upon emergency request from Chamarajanagar, took out 40 oxygen cylinders out of its own district hospital on the night of 1st May and sent them to Chamarajanagar. All these facts will be proved in the enquiry that is already ordered by the state government,” she added. The Chamarajanagar DC could not be reached for comment. The deaths on Monday also led to a slugfest between the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the opposition in the state.“24 deaths on Monday. 9 on Tuesday due to oxygen shortage. Instead of demanding more oxygen from the Centre, creating more ICU beds & saving lives, BJP is diverting attention from their failures that are causing deaths & distress. Your Govt. Fix the scam. People don’t want drama,” Krishna Byre Gowda, former minister and Congress legislator from Bengaluru, posted on Twitter.On Tuesday, the Centre had informed the Karnataka high court that the Union government had increased the state’s quota of the gas from 802 to 865 metric tonnes. The state requires at least 1,467 metric tonnes of oxygen amid a massive spike in the number of persons requiring oxygenated beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-did-not-control-o2-dc-rejects-allegations-in-chamarajanagar-deaths-101620242018261.html
06-05-2021||India||Apex Court’s ruling brings Jat quota demand under focus||The Supreme Court’s decision to scrap a quota for Marathas on Wednesday has brought under focus similar agitations for reservation by other dominant communities.In Haryana, where a law granting 10% quota for Jats is being held in abeyance, leaders of the agitation said they will call a mega meeting of major communities to decide the next course of action.According to All India Jat Aarakshan Sangharsh Samiti (AIJASS) chief Yashpal Malik, the apex court verdict was on expected lines. He said now a political consensus is required.“We will call a meeting of representatives of Jat, Maratha, Patel and other communities whose reservation has been stuck down,” said All India Jat Aarakshan Sangharsh Samiti chief Yashpal Malik, who was leading the agitation for Jat reservation. “If this reservation is not valid as per the constitution, as the judgment says, then the people who have provided reservation beyond this limit should be punished...,” he added.He said the governments have fooled people by giving them reservation without following norms. Endorsing his views, Hawa Singh Sangwan, Haryana unit head of the Akhil Bharatiya Jat Aarakshan Sangharsh Samiti, sought a political consensus.Violence broke out in Haryana on February 2016 over demands for a separate jat quota or including the community in the other backward class category. Later, the state government enacted a law to provide 10% reservation in government jobs and educational institutions to Jats and the five other castes.In September 2017, the Punjab and Haryana high court ordered this law be kept in abeyance till the Haryana Backward Classes Commission, determines extent and quantum of quota in jobs and educational institutions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/apex-court-s-ruling-brings-jat-quota-demand-under-focus-101620241958555.html
06-05-2021||India||Raise state’s O2 allocation: HC to Centre as cases surge||Bengaluru: Karnataka high court on Wednesday directed the Centre to increase the allocation of oxygen for the state to 1,201 metric tonnes for the next four days amid rising demand and reports of shortage in the state. The bench of Chief Justice Abhay Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar asked the state government to submit a projected estimate of oxygen required for the next week. “The state estimation is 1,162 metric tonnes of oxygen as of April 29 and 1,792 metric tonnes as of May 4. Therefore, there is justification if more than 1,792 metric tonnes sought by the state,” the bench observed. The order comes two days after 24 Covid-19 patients died in two hospitals in Chamarajanagar district allegedly due to shortage of oxygen. More than 20 hospitals in Bengaluru have sent out emergency messages after they ran out of oxygen. Karnataka and its capital Bengaluru have been experiencing an exponential rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in the recent weeks amid a surging second wave of the pandemic. The state reported 44,631 new cases on Wednesday, taking the active caseload to 464,363. Bengaluru accounted for 20,870 new infections, taking its active cases to 301,712. As many as 292 fatalities were reported across the state on Wednesday, which took the state’s toll to 16,538. Bengaluru’s death toll due to Covid-19 jumped to 6,845, with 132 deaths being reported on Wednesday, according to state health department.Meanwhile, the Karnataka government on Wednesday appointed retired high court judge Justice B A Patil as the one-man commission to inquire into the death of 24 Covid-19 patients in Chamarajanagar district allegedly owing to oxygen shortage. A notification regarding the appointment of Justice Patil was issued by the additional chief secretary in the home department, Rajneesh Goel on Wednesday. The term of reference of the commission read, “To inquire into the circumstances and events leading to the death of COVID-19 patients in District Hospital, Chamarajanagar on May 3, reportedly due to scarcity of oxygen and any further similar incidents, which are entrusted to the Commission of Inquiry by Government.” The office of the commission has to submit its report in one month. Advocate General Prabhuling K Navadgi told the court, “…Yesterday, the cabinet took cognizance of your lordship’s order, which prima facie indicated that Judicial Inquiry is necessary. They have passed an order for constituting a Commission of Inquiry with a request to the Honourable Judge to complete the inquiry within a period of one month, the outer limit.” However, the bench took serious exception to the decision of the state government to set up a commission of inquiry and appointing a retired judge to probe the deaths without taking its prior approval. “Intention of the government is very clear from the manner in which the whole thing is being done... It is a peremptory order...we are not against your appointing a particular judge, but you should have left it to the court...In all fairness you should have left it to the court to appoint a retired judge to conduct inquiry...,” observed a special division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar. Expressing displeasure over the approach of the state government, the HC directed state’s chief secretary to seize all records and documents related to oxygen supply from the offices of deputy commissioners of Chamarajanagar and Mysuru districts, and Chamarajanagar district hospital. The bench said the chief secretary should immediately seize all the documents and keep them in his safe custody till further orders. After passing the order, the bench told the AG: “You can either consider modifying the order or else we will tell you what we propose to do. The Committee appointed by the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority is headed by a retired judge and we propose to forward the records to him and ask him to inquire into the matter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/raise-state-s-o2-allocation-hc-to-centre-as-cases-surge-101620241900167.html
06-05-2021||India||13 die in TN govt hospital, officials deny oxygen shortage||Chennai: Thirteen people died on Tuesday late night and wee hours on Wednesday at the Chengalpattu government medical college hospital adjoining Chennai district. Authorities said one of them was Covid-19 positive and denied allegations of oxygen shortage. A probe is underway to find the cause of their death. Post graduate doctors of the hospital staged a protest on Wednesday demanding more oxygen, workforce and against healthcare workers being diverted from their hospital. Videos recorded from the hospital on the wee hours of Wednesday shows attendants of patients wailing. A woman inside the ward was seen shouting and crying saying that her husband has passed away even as a container named INOX Air Products entered the hospital premises at night. Chengalpattu district collector A John Louis, who reviewed the situation on Tuesday night, denied reports that the deaths were due to oxygen shortage. “Oxygen supply was maintained and I was present there at that time,” Louis said. “One of them is positive, the rest tested Covid-19 negative. The Director of Medical Education is inquiring,” he told reporters earlier in the day. “I was there at the field the whole night monitoring the situation. Oxygen supply (for the patients) was not interrupted. Seven of those (13) patients got admitted yesterday,” he said, adding that the hospital has a capacity of 23,000 litres of oxygen out of which 2,900 litres is consumed per day. The hospital dean Dr J Muthukumaran said that the patients had viral Pneumonia and some of them who had tested positive, recovered, but still had respiratory issues. “They died due to age, comorbidities and the condition of the diseases despite receiving treatment and not because of oxygen shortage,” said Muthukumaran. “At the stage of admission most of them had oxygen saturation below 80 with 50-60% lung involvement which is critical,” he said. According to the dean, 10 of the 13 patients were on oxygen support and there was a drop in the oxygen pressure but that was still not the cause. “The same low pressure oxygen was being given to other patients including serious Covid-19 patients and at the neonatal ICU. The new born babies with respiratory problems are more vulnerable than adults with Covid-19. But there were no deaths anywhere else. We had oxygen of 10,000 kilo liters in our tank.As the oxygen was going down there was a drop in the pressure; so the drive of the oxygen was less. For this we connected 180 cylinders as a substitute until the lorry carrying liquid oxygen container came in and filled up to 7000 kilo liters. During this four-five hours oxygen was available in the tank and pipeline,” he said.When asked about his hospital’s doctors protesting for more oxygen, the dean said that they had witnessed a drop in oxygen pressure the previous week. “There was no death then too but it was a panicky situation. Since it happened again, the doctors protested because they are worried that relatives of patients will take it out on them as they are the ones who are directly treating them.” He added that the DME, Narayana Babu has assured 100 more health staff for the hospital.A total of 447 patients is undergoing treatment in the hospital out of which 256 are Covid-19 patients while 191 were suspected to be infected with the virus. On Tuesday, 325 patients were on oxygen support. “We are taking steps to provide an additional 72 oxygen points,” he told reporters. “Since last night, oxygen was very low. At least 10-12 deaths have occurred but authorities are saying only one death due to Covid-19,” Nirmal, a protesting doctor, told Tamil channel Thanthi TV. There was oxygen scarcity for the past one week in the hospital, including for about 3 hours on Tuesday night, because of which the deaths occurred, said another doctor. Chengalpattu which is adjoining Chennai has the second highest caseload in Tamil Nadu. On May 4, Chengalpattu reported 1,608 new cases taking its active cases tally to 9,663.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/13-die-in-tn-govt-hospital-officials-deny-oxygen-shortage-101620241838114.html
06-05-2021||India||Oxygen equipment, critical medicines focus of India’s efforts to obtain foreign support||Oxygen-related equipment, especially large plants that can meet the oxygen needs of hospitals, and medicines such as Remdesivir continue to be the focus of India’s efforts to obtain support for its response to the deadly second wave of Coronavirus infections. Medium to large oxygen generation plants that can make hospitals autonomous and help address the severe shortage of oxygen at healthcare facilities in several cities will remain crucial even as the government transports oxygen to areas where it is needed most, including through the cryogenic tankers coming in from abroad. Portable oxygen generators, ventilators and cylinders, all of which have been supplied in large numbers by several countries, have their uses but there is a need for more large oxygen generation plants despite the difficulties associated with their transportation, installation and operationalisation, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity on Wednesday. So far, Italy has supplied one such plant and France eight more. One large plant is coming in from Germany and the US and the UK have pledged several more. Some of the French plants have already been installed at hospitals in New Delhi and have become operational. While critical medicines such as Remdesivir, Tocilizumab and Favipiravir are being sourced from abroad, efforts are also on to expand their production in the country though this process is being hampered by lack of adequate raw materials, the people said. Pharmaceutical giant Gilead has pledged 450,000 doses of Remdesivir and some 150,000 doses arrived on Wednesday; while efforts are still on to acquire about 400,000 doses from Egypt, the people said. Meanwhile, support for India’s Covid-19 response has continued to pour in from around the world. On Wednesday, Israel airlifted the first consignment of oxygen generators and concentrators to India to conveying a message of solidarity. More flights will come in from Israel this week, carrying thousands of group and individual oxygen generators, respirators, medications and additional equipment. Israeli ambassador Ron Malka said, “In this hour of need, our two democracies stand solidly side by side. The state of Israel is happy to lend a helping hand to our friend India in this complicated and difficult time.” The European Union (EU) announced on Wednesday it will allocate an initial 2.2 million euros in emergency funding to respond to the drastic surge in infections in India. This funding will support the World Health Organization (WHO) for a six-month case management of Covid-19 patients and strengthen laboratory capacity for testing. The Central government said in a statement that between April 27 and May 4, India had received 1,764 oxygen concentrators, 1,760 oxygen cylinders, 450 ventilators, more than 135,000 Remdesivir vials, and 120,000 Favipiravir strips. “All items received up to 4th May, 2021 are allocated to the states/institutions and substantial part of it stands delivered. This is an ongoing exercise,” the statement said, without giving details of the state-wise allocations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oxygen-equipment-critical-medicines-focus-of-india-s-efforts-to-obtain-foreign-support-101620241658675.html
06-05-2021||India||NTK gains ground in TN, 3rd in vote share||Chennai: With the two Dravidian majors, DMK and AIADMK, re-sealing their positions in the recently concluded assembly elections, the smaller parties that hoped to be an alternative or form a third front didn’t win any seat but have split the votes. Among them, Tamil nationalist S Seeman’s Naam Tamizhar Katchi (NTK) emerged from a fringe outfit to being recognised as a contender. NTK came third with 6.7% vote share —below the DMK and AIADMK. The party had only 1% vote share in the 2016 assembly elections. Many of its candidates also finished third in constituencies. The party has been growing steadily having polled 4% of votes in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. While most of the attention was on how the AIADMK’s rebel faction, Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhazgam (AMMK) led by TTV Dhinakaran, and actor Kamal Haasan’s Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) would perform, the Seeman-led party out performed them. AMMK and MNM polled 2.47% and 2.45% votes. Seeman has captured the voters with his fist-thumping oratory and switching from classical Tamil to colloquial expletives. Interviews from voters in the north, west and south regions indicated that they liked his ethno-nationalistic speeches peppered with emotions that bashed the status quo. Some, fed up with the Dravidian parties that have successively ruled Tamil Nadu, felt Seeman could be given a chance as an alternative. In part, these are the voters who had previously backed parties like Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam (DMDK) founded by actor-turned-politician Vijayakanth in 2005. DMDK was promising in its early days, and Vijayakanth even became the leader of the opposition when J Jayalalithaa was chief minister in 2011, but the party has got only 0.45% votes this time. Vaiko too after leaving the DMK developed his Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (MDMK) on a fervent Tamil pitch but dwindled and is back as an ally in the DMK fold, while Seeman has captured this space. Seeman started his party with a goal of an independent statehood for Lankan Tamils, a year after the LTTE was defeated in the Sri Lankan war in 2009. A passionate and polarising orator, Seeman has refused to tie up with any party because he fights on the plank of anti-corruption besides Tamil rights. He has dismissed Dravidian parties, espoused a militant Tamil majoritarian and linguistic pride. His position has been that a Tamil should rule Tamil Nadu. Political observers predicted that while Dhinakaran will eat into AIADMK’s voter base and Haasan will draw in the urban crowd, Seeman would gain from rural areas. “We have broken such projections in this election,” said Packiarajan Sethuramalingam, NTK’s spokesperson. “The perception is that the elite won’t vote for us, but we have polled more than 290,000 votes in Chennai and more than 100,000 each in Coimbatore, Trichy and Madurai.” Haasan’s MNM however came third in 12 of the 16 assembly constituencies in Chennai. The NTK wants its base to grow across Tamil Nadu and not be confined to a region or caste. “Dravidian parties have their presence across the state. Similarly, as an alternative our strategy to gradually build our presence is working,” Sethuramalingam said. Seeman’s rise is also discomforting to political analysts. “The emergence of Seeman as a third player is a matter of concern because they’re more like a cult than a political party,” says political commentator Maalan Narayanan. “What he speaks on a platform may be catchy among youngsters but it would not be practical. Like, he says if they come to power he won’t clear the state’s debts created by the previous governments. He still uses language similar to LTTE which may work for military outfit but not in an electoral democracy.” Another reason for NTK’s increase in votes polled is the arithmetic. NTK contested in all 234 constituencies and half the candidates were women. “We were criticised that we can afford to field 117 women because we are a small party but 14-lakh of our votes went to women and 16-lakh to men. That society is accepting these changes is revolutionary for us” said Sethuramalingam. Their only disappointment is not being able to enter the assembly this year. Seeman lost as their chief ministerial candidate from Chennai’s Thiruvottiyor constituency. Like in previous elections, NTK didn’t forge an alliance with anyone. This consistent conscious decision has worked in favour of the party’s image. The other fledgling parties didn’t go it alone and didn’t have much choice left, as several regional and the two national parties, Congress and BJP, were in the DMK and AIADMK alliances; AMMK, abandoned by VK Sasikala, contested in 161 seats, took in a wounded DMDK -- now led by Vijayakanth’s family due to his health issues. DMDK walked out of the AIADMK unhappy with the seats allotted and Dhinakaran gave away 60 seats to them and the remaining to SDPI, All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) and others. MNM contested in 135 seats and offered the remaining seats to little known parties who had walked out of the AIADMK and DMK alliances -- Indhiya Jananayaga Katchi (IJK) -- 40 and All India Samathuva Makkal Katchi (AISMK) -- 37.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ntk-gains-ground-in-tn-3rd-in-vote-share-101620241538093.html
06-05-2021||India||Vijayan writes to Modi, seeks 1,000 tonnes of oxygen amid surge||Thiruvananthapuram: As Covid-19 cases continue to surge and almost all hospitals packed to the brim, Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday said he has written to Prime Minister Modi seeking more liquid medical oxygen and vaccines for the state. “We are going through a serious phase of the pandemic. Rising number of cases and TPR shows we have to tighten curbs further. We have asked private hospitals to strictly follow the health ministry’s admission norms,” the CM said, in a virtual address to reporters. He added that he sent a letter to the prime minister on Wednesday seeking more help to tide over the crisis. In terms of total cases, Kerala ranks third in the country, only behind Maharashtra and Karnataka. The state reported 41,953 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the active caseload to 375,658. The test positivity rate in the state was 25.69. Though the fatality rate in Kerala is lowest in the country (below 0.4), statistics show it is also climbing up steadily in the last one week. As many as 58 deaths were reported in 24 hours, taking the toll in the state to 5,565, according to the state health department. Vijayan said hostels, lodges and empty offices will be converted into first line treatment centres to meet surge of patients. To avoid overcrowding of hospitals, he said, admission norms were tweaked and only cases that need urgent medical care would be admitted. He also sought the help of non-resident Indians (NRIs) -- the state has about 25 lakh people working abroad and 70% of them are in West Asian countries – in the state’s fight against the pandemic. In his letter to the PM, Vijayan said medical oxygen storage in the state should be augmented urgently as there was an increased demand for life-saving medical gas. “To augment storage, we need 1,000 tonnes of imported liquid medical oxygen. The Ministry of External Affairs may be advised to allot required quantity partly from the current tranche of imports and balance from future imports,” he said. The chief minister also asked the PM to provide more oxygen concentrators, ventilators and other equipment on priority basis considering high volume of cases. This is the first time the state was knocking at the Centre’s doors frantically, experts said. The state has, so far, vaccinated 7.4 million people, almost 20% of its 32.5-million population. The Union health ministry and PM had recently lauded the state’s zero wastage of vaccine while in some states it was between 5 and 18%. The CM has also requested the PM to send more vaccines – 5 million doses of Covishield and 2.5 million Covaxin doses. Currently, the state has a stock of 272.2 metric tonnes of liquid oxygen, and it needs 108 mt of oxygen daily, as per the health ministry statistics. What really worries the state is that the number of patients who need oxygen is rising alarmingly. In some of the worst-affected districts like Kozhikode and Ernakulam, most of the government hospitals are filled to the capacity, according to state government data. The government has also decided to deploy trainee doctors and nursing students to meet shortage of medical staff and set up oxygen plants on war-footing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vijayan-writes-to-modi-seeks-1-000-tonnes-of-oxygen-amid-surge-101620241478704.html
06-05-2021||India||Government approves food aid scheme for May, June||The Cabinet on Wednesday approved allocation of additional foodgrain under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana Phase III for the months of May and June, 2021, an official statement said.The Cabinet’s approval was “ex-post facto”.The allocation of additional foodgrain free of cost to approximately 798 million beneficiaries stands at 5 kg per person per month. It would entail an estimated food subsidy of Rs.25,332.92 crore, an official statement said.According to official data, the Food Corporation of India currently has 77 million tonne of foodgrains, 3.6 times more than the required emergency reserve for this time of the year.Nearly 810 million qualify for subsidised foodgrains under the food security law. The Act applies to 67% of the population.The Centre will “bear full expenditure” of over Rs.26,000 crore for the additional foodgrain allocation to the beneficiaries as part of central assistance to States, an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-approves-food-aid-scheme-for-may-june-101620241426766.html
06-05-2021||India||100 priests Covid positive, 2 die after Church event in Kerala’s Munnar||The Kerala police have started investigating a religious retreat conducted in hill station Munnar in Idukki district last month that flouted pandemic norms, and which seems to have resulted in the death of two priests last week from Covid-19 with around a 100 more participants testing positive .Among the infected are Church of South India (CSI) South Kerala Bishop Father Dharmaraj Rasalam. Two priests who attended the retreat, Father Bijumon (52) and Rev Shine B Raj (43) died last week after contracting Covid-19. CSI officials declined comment but reformist groups in the church confirmed it.Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has termed the incident “unfortunate” and said he has directed district authorities to conduction an investigation. “When situation is grave such an event should not have taken place.”The retreat was held between April 13-17, a period when Kerala was seeing an average cases with the test positivity rate of 20 per cent. It was also held at a time when Covid-19 restrictions were in place. The CSI retreat is the latest religious event to hit the headlines for recklessness during the pandemic. Last year, at the beginning of the first wave, a congregation of the Tablighi Jamaat in New Delhi caused a spike in cases. Last month’s massive congregation for the Kumbh Mela has contributed to an increase in cases in many northern and central Indian states .Reports in local media claim that more than 40 priests are undergoing treatment at the CSI Medical College Hospital in Karakonam. When contacted hospital authorities declined comment. Hectic efforts are on to cover up the incident.“Permission was not sought from district authorities for the event. We are inquiring into the incident . We will take strict action against the resort and organisers of the event,” said Idukki district collector H Dinesh.Church insiders said some young priests questioned the timing of the meet but they were threatened with disciplinary action by church authorities.“The retreat was held without permission. Even if permission was there, more than 50 people are not allowed in the present pandemic situation...,” said Jacob Mathew., a member of the Joint Christian Council, a reformist group.Kerala on Wednesday logged over 41,000 coronavirus cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/100-priests-covid-2-die-after-church-event-in-kerala-s-munnar-101620241298089.html
06-05-2021||India||MP Tejasvi Surya’s remarks on Muslim Covid warriors trigger furore||Bengaluru: Bengaluru south MP Tejasvi Surya courted controversy for unfairly targeting members of the Muslim community during his inspection of the Covid-19 war room in south Bengaluru on Tuesday. During the inspection, he read out the names of 17 out of the 205 persons employed at the centre, asking their qualifications. All of them were Muslim names.While there has been outrage against his statements in social media and civil society, lawyers in the city say his actions should result in a police FIR.In a video that has been in circulation since the inspection, Surya, standing along with MLAs Satish Reddy and Ravi Subramanya, is seen reading out the names of the 17 Muslim employees at the centre and demanded the qualifications of these persons.A staffer responded to him saying all of them were hired after applications were invited by the BBMP for agencies. In response, MLA Subramanya is heard asking, “Only these people are sending applications?” He then goes on to add that, “Are you hiring for a corporation or a Madarasa?”Surya then demanded the details of the hiring agency and sought to know the qualification of the 17. The series of communal references was live-streamed on the MLA’s social media handles.No questions were raised about the qualifications of other employees. An officer familiar with the matter said the process is on to replace that outsourcing agency that hired the 17 Muslims.A BBMP official said on condition of anonymity that these 17 people were part of the 205 people employed by the BBMP at the war room. A list of these 205 employees is available with HT.The MP claimed at a press conference that he had uncovered a massive fraud in how the BBMP war-room books beds. Interestingly, the BBMP is controlled by his own party, the BJP. Surya claimed that there was a “bribe for beds” scam, with BBMP officials, third-party agents, and employees hired for the war-room all playing a part -- blocking hospital beds in the names of asymptomatic people (without their knowledge) and releasing them 12 hours later to those willing to pay.When HT contacted Bengaluru police, they said two FITs have been registered in the case, and subsequently transfrred to the Crime Branch, but that none of these 17 men was part of it. Joint Commissioner of Police Sandeep Patil identified the four accused as Rihan, Shashi, Rohit, and Netravati. “As part of the investigation, we have conducted searches in all eight zonal war rooms,” he added.However, soon after the MP’s press conference about his inspection, a WhatsApp message titled “List of terrorists working in BBMP WAR ROOM killing thousands of Bengalurians” began doing rounds in Bengaluru. The message listed 16 of the 17 names mentioned by the Surya in his live stream. HT could not ascertain the origin of the WhatsApp message.Amother WhatsApp message targeted BBMP joint commissioner Sarfaraz Khan and said he “has to be made accountable”. In response, the official said in a Facebook post that he has nothing to do with the war-room, “I’m extremely pained to see WhatsApp messages, where my name is dragged into the mismanagement of the BBMP war room established for the allocation of beds. It was shocking for a simple reason that I have no role in the war room, nor do I know any doctor in the war room. My job is to take care of Covid Care Centres and Solid Waste Management,” he wrote. Khan subsequently filed a complaint with the Bengaluru police, seeking an investigation by the cyber cell to track down those responsible for the message.A legal expert in the city said that Surya’s actions were not only disturbing but should invite legal action. “The communalisation of this incident is deeply disturbing. The MP reads out the names of 17 Muslims there ? What does that imply? Even in the press conference, he mentions the name of a Christian doctor. But the fact is that police have not arrested any of these 17 people or the Christian doctor, instead, they have arrested one Rohit and one Netra. He doesn’t mention those names,” said Vinaya Srinivasa a city-based lawyer.Surya didn’t respond to calls and a WhatsApp message seeking comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-surya-s-remarks-on-muslim-covid-warriors-trigger-furore-101620241238018.html
06-05-2021||India||US to support waiver of IPR on Covid-19 vaccines||The Biden administration Wednesday announced the United States will support the temporary waiver of intellectual property rights to Covid-19 vaccines as proposed by India and South Africa at the WTO and said it will “actively participate” in negotiation to “make that happen”.“The Administration believes strongly in intellectual property protections, but in service of ending this pandemic, supports the waiver of those protections for COVID-19 vaccines,” US trade representative Katherine Tai said, adding, “We will actively participate in text-based negotiations at the World Trade Organization (WTO) needed to make that happen.”It’s a limited waiver that the US is supporting, according to people familiar with these matters, as it covers only vaccines and not therapeutics and related technologies as proposed by India and South Africa. And given the consensus-based approach of the WTO, getting it done will not happen overnight.The Biden administration has been under mounting pressure from members of the Democratic party and rights groups at home and the growing number of WTO member nations to reverse US opposition to the waiver proposal ordered by former President Donald Trump who was in office when India and South Africa had moved their joint proposal last October.“The Administration’s aim is to get as many safe and effective vaccines to as many people as fast as possible,” Tai said. “As our vaccine supply for the American people is secured, the Administration will continue to ramp up its efforts – working with the private sector and all possible partners – to expand vaccine manufacturing and distribution.”.India and South Africa moved the proposal before the WTO last October calling for temporarily waive of the agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) to ensure easy and affordable access globally, and specially to developing countries, to Covid-19 vaccines, therapeutics and related technologies till the pandemic had been curbed.It secured the support of more than 100 members nations, but was being opposed by the United States, the United Kingdom and some other countries, essentially developed countries who have secured sufficient numbers of vaccines, therapeutics and raw materials for their own needs, pre-ordering most of it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-announces-support-for-india-south-africa-waiver-proposal-at-wto-101620241178100.html
06-05-2021||India||Centre granted 'blanket exemption' from customs for donations sent from abroad as Covid relief||Centre granted blanket exemption from customs and Integrated Goods and Services Tax (IGST) for all items sent as donations from abroad as Covid relief material, according to an internal Standard Operating Procedure note on for ‘receiving Donations/gifts from abroad,’ reviewed by HT.“Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS) will be consignee and Hindustan Latex Limited (HLL) will provide logistic support Procedure….Such offers will be given blanket exemptions from Customs, IGST and other mandatory clearances,” the SOP states. The SOP has been sent to the coordinating officers from the Niti Aayog, external affairs ministry, ministry of civil aviation and the ministry of health.However, as explained in PIB’s statement on Tuesday, the goods will still need to be cleared by the customs department.“The Indian Customs is sensitive to the need for availability of COVID related imports including Oxygen & Oxygen related equipment etc., and are working 24 x 7 to fast track and clear the goods on arrival and lead to expeditious clearance within hours,” the PIB statement said. It added Indian customs has waived ‘Basic Customs Duty’ and ‘Health cess’ on goods identified for defending Covid, and, conditionally, IGST.As questions continued to swirl on Tuesday regarding allocation of oxygen-related equipment and supplies provided by other countries to back India’s Covid-19 response, the government said medical infrastructure of 38 institutions across 31 states, stretched thin because of an unprecedented surge in Coronavirus infections, was strengthened using supplies from around the world. The supplies have either reached the state or are on their way, it added.For donations related to private individuals, companies and NGO’s the SOP said the missions will need to inform the Niti Aayog and the external affairs and health ministries.The Centre has made apex government think-tank Niti Aayog the nodal body for coordinating such offers. Niti Aayog will coordinate with the IRCS and HLL for its distribution.“Missions will vet such offers, including verification of antecedents of donors before forwarding proposals,” it said. “Donations meant for private use will also be coordinated by Niti Aayog Such consignments will be cleared by an agency designated by Nit Aayog and its distribution will be under the direction of Niti Aayog, which will keep MEA informed,” it added.It also said missions will share with foreign governments list of priority items prepared by the health ministry for their consideration. “Offer of PPE kits, RT-PCR tests kits masks etc as well as refurbished items may politely be declined stating that these are available in sufficient numbers domestically,” the SOP said.“Missions may convey diplomatically that offers of humanitarian aid made by foreign governments Private individuals/ Indian associations/ companies/ NGOs to Government of India should be of a minimum threshold for effective use and expeditious clearance on arrival,” the SOP said.“Missions on receipt of information on offer(s) of donations/ gifts from foreign governments will forward them to Ministry of External Affairs ( MEA) MEA will compile offers and forward them to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) with specifications and other details. The proposals will be discussed in the inter-ministerial consultation group for its consent and approval.It also said missions should also provide information on technical teams who will travel for the purpose for installation, training of personnel and maintenance. “Alternatively Missions may identify foreign manufacturers for their technical teams in India for the purpose The expert will both under the guidance of MoHFW which will also facilitate their stay in India,” it noted.PIB’s statement indicated that the SOP for distributing foreign aid materials was framed by the Union health ministry on May 2. Supplies procured from abroad under commercial contracts began entering the country on April 25 and aid from other countries started arriving from April 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-grants-customs-igst-exemption-on-donations-from-abroad-101620241122622.html
06-05-2021||India||G7 delegation in isolation in UK after Covid scare||The Indian delegation, led by external affairs minister S Jaishankar, to the G7 foreign ministers meeting in London was self-isolating on Wednesday after two members tested positive for Covid-19, triggering a scare at the event.Jaishankar tweeted he became aware of “exposure to possible Covid positive cases” and would conduct all his engagements in London virtually, including participation in the G7 meet on Wednesday.Public Health England, which deals with issues such as infectious diseases, asked the Indian delegation to self-isolate, according to BBC. A British official confirmed two positive tests among the delegation. British rules require a 10-day self-isolation period.“Was made aware yesterday evening of exposure to possible Covid positive cases. As a measure of abundant caution and also out of consideration for others, I decided to conduct my engagements in the virtual mode. That will be the case with the G7 Meeting today as well,” said a tweet by Jaishankar, who is on his first foreign trip after India was hit by a devastating second wave of infections. Jaishankar subsequently tweeted an image of himself holding a virtual meeting with his Canadian counterpart Marc Garneau.The report of the delegates testing positive immediately triggered Covid-19 worries at the G7 meeting. There were also questions as to whether members of other delegations had been exposed in any manner.People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that all members of the Indian delegation in London had tested negative on Sunday. The Indian side is working with UK health authorities to ascertain the level of exposure and what needs to be done regarding the delegation’s travel plans, the people said.British high commissioner Alex Ellis in New Delhi said that UK authorities have protocols in place for the G7 meeting which will determine how such an incident is handled.While participating in a live virtual event with the theme “Does India have a plan? From survival to revival”, Jaishankar described the second wave of infections as an “all consuming” challenge and admitted that India’s health system “stands exposed”. Asked if the government took its eye off the ball with regard to the pandemic, he said: “There were repeated advisories going out and public health teams sent out. There was a move to ramp up oxygen production. The reality unfortunately was, as the numbers came down there was an amount of public confidence. This is genuinely not a blame game, but I don’t think anyone can say we kept our guard up all the time.”Jaishankar added, “With the benefit of hindsight, it is easy to say we shouldn’t have allowed gatherings of any kind. ..We are a deeply democratic and political country and in a democracy, you can’t not have elections. Elections are sacrosanct.”The elections in four states and a UT through the month of April, saw several leaders address large gatherings, where there was almost no compliance with Covid-safety protocols. April also saw a large religious gathering, the MahaKumbh, which attracted millions of pilgrims to Uttarakhand.India is not a member of the G7 and was invited to the meeting as a guest along with Australia, South Korea, South Africa and the chair of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations.Jaishankar met British interior minister Priti Patel on Tuesday. Patel didn’t have to self-isolate because the meeting was held in line with existing rules.Jaishankar held bilateral meetings in London with US secretary of state Antony Blinken, South African foreign minister Naledi Pandor, and European Union foreign policy chief Josep Borrell, and a trilateral meeting with Australian foreign minister Marise Payne and French foreign minister Jean-Yves Le Drian.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-worries-at-g7-meeting-after-two-indian-delegates-test-positive-101620241121421.html
06-05-2021||India||States scamper to meet rising oxygen demand as cases surge||Even as two incidents of Covid patients dying because of an alleged disruption in oxygen supply in hospitals were reported on Wednesday, several states across India continued their efforts to ramp up oxygen supply to meet the increase in demand due to rising Covid infections.On Tuesday night, 13 people died at the Chengalpattu government medical college hospital, allegedly due to oxygen shortage. In a private hospital in Roorkee, five Covid-19 positive patients died, again, allegedly due to non-availability of oxygen on Wednesday morning.So far, about 80 persons have died in hospitals across the country, all allegedly due to a shortage of oxygen or disruption in its supply. The Delhi government on Monday, controversially told the Delhi High Court that the death of 21 patients at the Jaipur Golden Hospital was not because of lack of oxygen but “respiratory failure”.On Wednesday, Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi asking for additional supply of oxygen as number of Covid cases in the two states, where elections concluded on May 2, is on the rise.All supplies of medical oxygen are channelised by the Centre.Kerala has the third highest number of active cases in the country, after Maharashtra and Karnataka.The number of active cases in the state has increased from 6,500 on February 27 when assembly elections were announced to 41,953 on Tuesday. For West Bengal, the corresponding numbers are 400 and 18,102.In his letter to the PM, Vijayan said to augment storage the state need 1000 tonne of imported liquid medical oxygen.“The Ministry of External Affairs may be advised to allot the required quantity partly from the current tranche of imports and balance from future imports,” he said. The CM also asked for more oxygen concentrators, ventilators and other equipment on priority basis considering high volume of cases. He also sought 7.5 million more doses of Covid vaccine to increase vaccination coverage; Kerala has so far administered 9 million doses of the vaccine to 9.1 million people(1.1 million have received two doses and 8 million, one).In her letter to the PM, West Bengal chief minister Banerjee asked for additional allocation of least 500 MT of medical oxygen per day out of the total oxygen produced in Bengal to prevent any shortage. “There have been no deaths in any of the hospitals in West Bengal for oxygen so far. Till now we have not faced any shortage. But our oxygen demand has shot up from around 220 MT to around 400MT.It is expected to rise further as cases are rising,” said a senior state government official who asked not to be named.The Rajasthan government has also sought an additional 200 MT of oxygen daily from the Centre to meet any shortfall that may arise due to rising cases. The state’s health minister Raghu Sharma said he estimates demand for oxygen may rise to 950 MT by May 12.“We are getting 230 MT less oxygen than the current requirement,” he said, asking the Centre to provide oxygen to Rajasthan from nearby sources so that oxygen can be easily transported.He said the state needs 26 tankers to transport 370 MT of oxygen, which will be enough to meet the current demand. Rajasthan has 35,000 active cases.The Punjab cabinet on Wednesday decided to ask the Centre for additional supply of oxygen. Punjab’s daily quota is 195 MT but its demand has risen to close to 220 MT, officials said. In Haryana, the officials said, there was no shortage of oxygen.In Madhya Pradesh, in cities such as Bhopal, Indore, Jabalpur, Ujjain and Gwalior, private hospitals are admitting only those patients who can arrange for oxygen cylinders. The state is facing oxygen shortage as it does not have enough tankers to transport the oxygen to hospitals.“We have placed an order of eight cryogenic tankers to a Thailand based company to improve transportation of the gas,” said Vishwas Sarang, minister of medical education.Several hospitals across Karnataka, including Bengaluru have reported shortages in oxygen with at least 10 sending SOS messages.“They say that government has been promising to fix the issues but so far only providing “stop-gap” arrangements with supplies to last a few hours,” said a government official who asked not to be named.The officials said oxygen shortages have been reported from Mandya, Kalaburagi and Bengaluru Rural District .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-scamper-to-meet-rising-oxygen-demand-as-cases-surge-101620241059309.html
06-05-2021||India||Apex court’s ruling brings Jat quota demand under focus||Chandigarh The Supreme Court’s decision to scrap a quota for Marathas on Wednesday has brought under focus similar agitations for reservation by other dominant communities. In Haryana, where a law granting 10% quota for Jats is being held in abeyance, leaders of the agitation said they will call a mega meeting of major communities to decide the next course of action. According to All India Jat Aarakshan Sangharsh Samiti (AIJASS) chief Yashpal Malik, the Apex Court verdict was on expected lines. He said now a political consensus is required. “We will call a meeting of representatives of Jat, Maratha, Patel and other communities whose reservation has been stuck down by the top court,” said All India Jat Aarakshan Sangharsh Samiti (AIJASS) chief Yashpal Malik, who was leading the agitation for Jat reservation. “If this reservation is not valid as per the constitution, as the judgment says, then the people who have provided reservation beyond this limit should be punished for passing such misleading laws for their political gains,” he added. He said the governments had intentionally fooled people by giving them reservation without following norms. Endorsing his views, Hawa Singh Sangwan, Haryana unit president of the Akhil Bharatiya Jat Aarakshan Sangharsh Samiti (ABJASS), called for a political consensus. Violence broke out in Haryana on February 2016 over demands for a separate jat quota or including the community in the other backward class category. Soon after the violence subsided, the state government enacted a law to provide 10% reservation in government jobs and educational institutions to Jats and the five other castes. The community constitutes a quarter of the state’s population. The quota law hit a legal hurdle in September 2017 when the Punjab and Haryana high court ordered this law be kept in abeyance till the Haryana Backward Classes Commission (HBCC), determines the extent and quantum of reservation in jobs and educational institutions. The commission was asked to submit its report by March 31, 2018. However, it could not do so due to status quo being ordered by the Supreme Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/apex-court-s-ruling-brings-jat-quota-demand-under-focus-101620240938626.html
06-05-2021||India||Third wave of Covid inevitable, says government||India has detected a total of 3,532 Sars-CoV-2 variants of concern in 27 states, the government announced on Wednesday, adding that a third wave of Covid-19 was inevitable looking at the current surge in infections.Researchers have found that the circulation of the UK variant (B.1.1.7) that is known to be 50% more transmissible is on a decline in India, and the double mutant variant (B.1.6.1.7) is on the rise, said senior scientists.“A phase three is inevitable, given the high levels of circulating virus, but it is not clear on what time scale this phase 3 will occur. Hopefully, incrementally, but we should prepare for new waves. Previous infections and vaccines will cause adaptive pressure on the virus for new kinds of changes which try to escape, and, therefore, we should be prepared, scientifically to take care of that,” said K Vijay Raghavan, principal scientific advisor, to the government of India.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThose mutations are a variant of concern for which there is evidence of an increase in transmissibility, more severe disease etc.He also said that scientists were currently making a map in the laboratory of all possible changes that could happen to the virus and see how these changes could affect immune and vaccine evasion.Many factors contributed to this second wave and variants are one of the factors, Vijay Raghavan said.The first wave peaked in September last year and declined because of two factors, he said. “As infections rose, so did immunity among those infected. A combination of the standing level of immunity in the population and cautionary steps halted the spread of the first wave,” he said.But as the cautionary steps declined, new opportunities for infection arose and the level of immunity among the population is often not enough to stop the infection spread. “Many people get infected until they reach a new immunity threshold. Such a second wave is typically smaller than the first. Such a second wave was expected. However, multiple parameters can change and add up to the second wave, much larger than the first.“(But) Such a larger second wave with the ferocity we are seeing was not predicted,” he said.The consortium of 10 advanced laboratories that is performing genome sequencing of positive samples across the country since December 2020, found that the UK variant (B.1.1.7) of Sars-Cov-2 that was dominating till some time ago, is on a decline in the country, and it is the double mutant variant (B.1.617) that is gradually gaining prominence.Also Read: How different will Covid's 3rd wave be from first two? What government says“We have seen the B.1.1.7 lineage that was quite prevalent in the initial period especially in states such as Maharashtra and later Delhi, is declining in proportion during the last one-and-a-half month. As of today, our B.1.6.1.7 lineage that was initially centred initially around Maharashtra, is now detected in many other states. And in some states, we have established its correlation with the current surge. However, its epidemiological and clinical correlation needs to be established yet,” said Dr SK Singh, director, National Centre for Disease Control, Delhi.Three-four states had shown higher variant load, including Maharashtra, Punjab, Delhi, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, said Dr Singh in his presentationExperts also said that more than higher transmissibility, it is the clinical correlation that was crucial. “INSACOG [Indian Sars-Cov-2 Genome Sequencing Consortium] data just shows that variants, especially the B.1.617 may have some advantage in the spread, but what that has to do with phase 3 remains to be seen.,” said Dr Gagandeep Kang, professor at Christian Medical College, Vellore. Singh added, “At least 1.3 million mutations have been notified globally so far in Sars-cov-2, and not all mutations are of concern...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/third-wave-of-covid-inevitable-says-govt-101620240939205.html
06-05-2021||India||States have no power to draw up own lists of backward classes: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Wednesday ruled that after a constitutional amendment in 2018, state governments have no power to draw up their own lists of backward classes and that they must rely on the Centre to include or exclude any community for granting reservation.By a 3-2 majority, a five-judge bench interpreted the 102nd constitutional amendment, whereby provisions were inserted to give constitutional status to the National Commission for Backward Classes (Article 338B) and for empower the President to notify the list of socially and educationally backward classes of state or Union territory (Article 342A).While justices Ashok Bhushan and SA Nazeer maintained that the amendment act was confined to the list to be issued for central government jobs, justices L Nageswara Rao, Hemant Gupta and S Ravindra Bhat held that the scheme of the amendments has taken away the power of the state to identify backward classes. The majority dismissed the Centre’s understanding of the amendments. Attorney general KK Venugopal told the court that the 102nd amendment did not deprive state legislatures to enact law determining the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes and conferring benefits on them.According to the top law officer, Article 15(4) and 16(4) of the Constitution were untouched by insertion of Article 342 and that the states will continue to exercise their power to identify SEBCs and give reservation even after the amendments.Several states, including Maharashtra, Punjab, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, also asserted their right under Articles 15(4) and 16(4) to make special provisions for SEBCs and give them benefits of quota.Both the Centre and states urged the court to lend credence to the parliamentary select committee report of 2017 and a statement of Union minister Thawarchand Gehlot on the floor of Parliament in August 2017 that the amendments did not affect the rights of the state governments to notify backward classes for reservation.But the majority judgment rejected this plea. “I am convinced that there is no reason to depart from the text which is in clear terms and rely upon the legislative history to construe Article 342 A contrary to the language...”Stating that the states could only make suggestions with the President who will have the exclusive authority to notify the list of SEBCs, Justice Bhat added that once the list was notified, states could exercise their power under Article 15(4) and 16(4) to decide on extent of reservations, the kind of benefits, the quantum of scholarships, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-have-no-power-to-draw-up-own-lists-of-backward-classes-sc-101620240638571.html
06-05-2021||India||India predicts another agricultural expansion||India has forecast an expansion of agriculture despite a massive surge in Covid-19 numbers, as farmers are projected to raise output to record levels in the oncoming kharif or summer-sown season, following a pandemic-defying performance in 2020.The Union government is anticipating an increase in sowing and higher demand from the farm sector. It has issued instructions for the seamless availability and supply of critical inputs, such as fertilisers, seeds, pesticides, and machinery.Millions of farmers have worked hard to keep agricultural operations going throughout the pandemic, aided by an exemption of the farm sector from Covid-related restrictions.The pandemic has hit urban centres and smaller towns harder, relatively sparing farming activities in the countryside. “We expect a nearly 10% increase in fertiliser demand,” an official of the agriculture ministry said, requesting not to be named.A key reason for the optimism has been the forecast of a normal 2021 monsoon, the third straight year of optimal rains. The India Meteorological Department on April 16 forecast that rainfall during the June-to-September monsoon season to be 98%. Rainfall between 94-106% is considered “normal”.On April 27, fertiliser minister DV Sadananda Gowda reviewed the demand-supply situation. In the meeting, officials projected that fertiliser demand could be around 35 million tonne in the summer-sown season, up from 32 million tonne last year, a second official said.On April 30, agriculture minister Narendra Tomar led a meeting of strategists and officials who will steer the so-called “Kharif Campaign 2021”. He announced a higher foodgrains production target of 307 million tonnes for 2021-22, up from 301.92 million tonne in 2020-21.According to a presentation by agriculture commissioner Suresh Malhotra at the meet, there were sufficient supplies of seeds, fertilisers, pesticides and machinery, except soyabean and maize seeds. “When you have a normal monsoon, that in itself takes care of most of the issues in agriculture. But the government should also be ready with adequate plans for patches where droughts are still possible...,” said RS Mani, a former faculty of the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-predicts-another-agricultural-expansion-101620240638000.html
06-05-2021||India||100 priests test Covid-19 positive, 2 die after church event in Kerala’s Munnar||The Kerala police have started probing a religious retreat conducted in Munnar in Idukki district last month that flouted Covid-19 norms which reportedly led to the death of two priests last week and 100-odd participants testing positive for the infection.Among the infected is Church of South India (CSI) Bishop Father Dharmaraj Rasalam. Two priests who attended the retreat Father Bijumon (52) and Rev Shine B Raj (43) died last week after contracting Covid-19. When contacted the CSI authorities refused to comment but reformist groups in the church confirmed it.Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has termed the incident “unfortunate” and said he had directed district authorities to conduction an investigation. “When the situation is grave such an event should not have taken place,” he said.There are reports in the local media that more than 40 priests are undergoing treatment at the CSI Medical College Hospital in Karakoram near the Kerala-Tamil Nadu border. When contacted hospital authorities refused to comment. Hectic efforts are on to hush up the incident.“Permission was not sought from district authorities for the event. We are inquiring into the incident which was conducted discreetly. We will take strict action against the resort and organisers of the event,” said Idukki district collector H Dinesh.Church insiders said all norms were flouted during the event held from April 13 to 17 and more than 350 priests and others participated in the annual retreat organised by the CSI Christ Church in Munnar. They said some young priests had questioned the timing of the meet but they were threatened with disciplinary action by church authorities.“The retreat was held without permission. Even if permission was there, more than 50 people are not allowed in the present pandemic situation. But all norms were flouted. We alerted some top officials about this but no action was taken,” said a member of the Joint Christian Council, a reformist group, Jacob Mathew.A spokesperson of the church later denied these reports saying it was an attempt to malign the church involved in many humanitarian and charity activities during the pandemic. But he admitted two priests died recently due to Covid-19 but insisted that their deaths were nothing to do with the annual conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/100-priests-test-covid-19-positive-2-die-after-church-event-in-kerala-s-munnar-101620240459085.html
06-05-2021||India||UP panchayat polls: SP extends lead, parties try to woo independents||The Samajwadi Party (SP) extended its lead over the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the Uttar Pradesh panchayat elections on Wednesday as parties attempted to woo independent candidates, who won the largest chunk of rural body seats.Trends and results available for 3,050 district panchayat wards on Wednesday evening showed the SP winning or leading in 779 wards, the BJP in 579, the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) in 361 and the Congress in 76. Independents and smaller parties won or led in 1,272 wards.The BJP, which secured a landslide victory in the UP assembly election by bagging 312 out of 403 seats in the state assembly, suffered setbacks in its bastions of Ayodhya, Varanasi, Lucknow and Gorakhpur in the panchayat elections and the SP maintained its grip on strongholds of Etawah (western UP), Kannauj (central UP), Mainpuri (western UP), Azamgarh (eastern UP), Etah (western UP), Kasganj (western UP) and Farrukhabad (western UP).The panchayat elections are not contested on party symbols, but all parties officially released the names of the candidates backed by them. The State Election Commission (SEC) has said results won’t be declared on party lines.Independent candidates, a majority of them rebels from various political parties, are likely to play a crucial role in the election of the district panchayat chairpersons to be held later this month. The BJP has already opened communication channels with independents to try and win district panchayat chair and block chief positions. The indirect elections are to be held for 75 posts of district panchayat chiefs and 826 block chiefs, likely by the end of May, according to a SEC officer.The victory of SP and other Opposition candidates is likely to set the ground for fresh political realignment and alliances before the assembly election in 2022. Smaller political parties, including the Suheldev Bhartyiya Samaj Party (SBSP), Aam Admi Party (AAP), Apna Dal, Azad Samaj Party (Bhim Army) and Pragtisheel Samajwadi Party-Lohia also bagged wards in the areas of their influence.The Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha launched by the smaller parties has called for a united alliance against the NDA in the 2022 assembly election, said SBSP chief Om Prakash Rajbhar.The farmers’ agitation against three central agrarian laws dented the BJP’s fortunes in west UP where it had won maximum seats in the 2017 assembly elections. The Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD), which won only one seat in the 2017 assembly polls and was wiped out in its stronghold in west UP, made a comeback in the panchayat polls, winning seats in Meerut, Shamli, Bulandshahr, Baghpat, Hapur and Bijnor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uppanchayat-polls-sp-extends-lead-parties-try-to-woo-independents-101620239438374.html
06-05-2021||India||3 more Rafale jets leave for India from France||Three Rafale jets took off from the Bordeaux–Mérignac airbase in France on Wednesday and were scheduled to reach India by night, taking the total number of Rafales in the Indian Air Force inventory to 21 and setting the stage for raising the second squadron of the fighters in the country’s eastern sector, officials familiar with the development said.“Next batch of three #Rafales leave from France to India today; wished the pilots smooth flight and safe landing,” the Indian embassy in France said on Twitter. This is the sixth ferry of Rafale jets from France to India.IAF chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria last month flagged off four Rafale jets from France to India. Bhadauria was in France on a five-day visit in April.India ordered 36 warplanes from France (equivalent of two squadrons) in 2016 for Rs.59,000 crore under a government-to-government deal. The jets’ arrival will allow the IAF to begin raising its second Rafale squadron at Hasimara in West Bengal. “The new jets will be based in Ambala initially before moving to Hasimara when the raising of the squadron begins,” said one of the persons cited above. All the 36 planes are likely to join the IAF’s fighter fleet by the year-end.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-more-rafale-fighter-jets-arriving-tonight-stage-set-for-raising-2nd-squadron-101620216696010.html
06-05-2021||India||Maratha quota setback in Supreme Court may hurt Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi govt||The scrapping of the Maratha quota could be a major setback for the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) could use the unrest in the influential community against the ruling coalition, said political experts.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will write to President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, requesting them to take a decision on Maratha reservation.“I am requesting the Prime Minister and President to take a decision on Maratha reservation as the Supreme Court has also acknowledged that it comes under their authority,” Thackeray said in his address on Wednesday evening.The chief minister requested Marathas to exercise peace and restraint as the state is in the midst of a pandemic. He asked them not to get provoked. “The SC verdict is disappointing as it has said that the state doesn’t have powers to give reservation… But it has also shown us a way by saying that the Centre and President has powers to grant reservation to a community. I am sure that the PM or the Centre will not disrespect this demand as it is not of just a community but of entire Maharashtra,” he said.Marathas, who make up nearly 32% of the state population, are a strong force in the state both politically and socially.Mansing Pawar, one of the organisers of the Maratha Kranti Morcha, said there were two options: increase the ceiling of reservation quota which the central government could do, or the state government incorporate Marathas in the Other Backward Class category. “The central government will have to think of making an amendment to increase reservation quota from 50% and above to grant reservation to the Maratha community. The other option is that the state government can make Maratha community part of OBC category to grant reservation,” he said.State minister Ashok Chavan, who heads the cabinet sub-committee on Maratha reservation, said then chief minister Devendra Fadnavis misled the people on quota issues by passing it without due right. Fadnavis and other BJP leaders held the MVA government responsible for quashing of the reservation.Political analysts said the BJP will use the verdict to its advantage to corner the MVA politically. “The bill and subsequent law were passed during their government, but still they will make the argument emotional to fire up the Maratha youths. Whether there is any major election or not, the unrest will be engineered,” said Pratap Asbe, a political analyst.Another analyst Surendra Jondhale said that although the BJP enjoyed support of many Maratha leaders, it needed to be seen if Maratha youth come under their influence.“The BJP will attempt to mobilise the Marathas and make an issue out of it. Fadnavis has played an ambiguous role in the quota issue. Interestingly, [BJP MP] Sambhaji Maharaj has taken a stand that both governments pursued the matter and he accepted the verdict. The response of Maratha youths to the BJP will be important now,” said Jondhale, a former professor at Mumbai University.According to a Congress leader, the SC verdict may have long-standing political repercussions. “The BJP has been painting a picture that they had given the reservation to the community, but the three-party government could not safeguard it. It is now very difficult to regain it by filing a review petition and next to impossible to include them in other backward classes. The conclusion is the reservation was struck down, when the parties with strong Maratha base are at helm of affairs. The effect may be felt in the upcoming local body elections,” said the leader, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maratha-quota-maharashtra-to-approach-centre-bjp-blames-mva-for-sc-verdict-101620210442927.html
06-05-2021||India||Supreme Court sets aside law on Maratha reservation||Reservation breaching the 50% limit will create a society based on “caste rule”, held the Supreme Court on Wednesday as it quashed a 2018 Maharashtra law providing quotas for Marathas in jobs and education while also refusing to consider scrapping the 50% ceiling.The top court also dealt a severe blow to the authority of state governments in identifying backward classes by ruling that after the 2018 amendment in the Constitution, only the central government could notify socially and educationally backward classes (SEBCs).The interpretation of the 102nd constitutional amendment -- which related to giving constitutional status to the National Commission of Backward Classes -- may impinge on the power of states to provide reservation benefits after separately identifying backward classes, especially at a time when several dominant communities – such as Jats, Patels and Gujjars – are demanding separate quotas.The judgment on a clutch of petitions was delivered by a five-judge bench -- comprising justices Ashok Bhushan, L Nageswara Rao, S Abdul Nazeer, Hemant Gupta and S Ravindra Bhat -- which scrapped the validity of the Maratha quota law that breached the 50% limit.While all five judges were unanimous in declaring Maratha quota law “unsustainable” and in affirming that the 50% ceiling on total reservation was inviolable, the ruling on depriving states of the power to identify SEBCs came by a majority of 3-2. Justices Bhushan and Nazeer said that states could still have their own list of SEBCs -- a view overruled by the majority.Underlining that the 50% upper limit as fixed by a nine-judge bench in the Indra Sawhney case (famously known as the Mandal Commission case) in 1992 follows principles of reasonability and equality, the bench unanimously said that “to change the 50% limit is to have a society which is not founded on equality but based on caste rule”.“If the reservation goes above 50% limit, which is a reasonable, it will be slippery slope, the political pressure, make it hardly to reduce the same. The cap on percentage is to achieve principle of equality and with the object to strike a balance which cannot be said to be arbitrary or unreasonable,” asserted the court.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray called the ruling unfortunate and said the legal battle for the reservation will continue till there is victory. “With folded hands, we request the Prime Minister and the President to take an immediate decision on Maratha quota,” he said a statement.In the past, the Union government has even amended the Constitution to bolster its decisions and similar alacrity should be shown in this matter, he added.The law was passed in 2018 after months of violent agitation by the influential community, which makes up 32% of the state. In 2019, the Bombay high court upheld the law but trimmed the quantum of quota, prompting several groups to approach the apex court.The top court rejected a plea made jointly by several states such as Maharashtra, Karnataka, Bihar, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Rajasthan and Andhra Pradesh that opposed any upper limit on reservation, and sought a reconsideration of the 1992 verdict to enable them to extend the quota beyond 50% in view of the changed times.“There can be no quarrel that society changes, law changes, people change, but that does not mean that something which is good and proven to be beneficial in maintaining equality in the society should also be changed in the name of change alone,” said the bench, shooting down requests by state governments to refer the case to a larger bench for reviewing the 1992 verdict.Highlighting that India has been independent for 73 years, during which quota benefits were granted as affirmative measures to bring equality in society, the top court maintained that reservation in public services was not the only means and method for improving the welfare of backward class.“The State ought to bring other measures including providing educational facilities to the members of backward class free of cost, giving concession in fee, providing opportunities for skill development to enable the candidates from the backward class to be self-reliant,” it told the states.‘SOCIALLY, POLITICALLY DOMINANT’ About the 2018 Maratha reservation law, the bench lamented that the state government opted to give reservation to a class that was “socially dominant”, “politically dominant” and “in the mainstream of national life,” and thus, there was no justification to breach the 50% ceiling for a class that also had adequate representation in public employment.The 2018 law was based on a state backward commission report and the window of “extraordinary situations” cited in the Indra Sawhney case. It provided 16% reservation in jobs and educational institutions to Marathas, taking the quantum of caste-based quota in the state to 68%.In 2019, the Bombay high court reduced the quota to 12% in admissions and 13% in jobs, prompting studentS and other petitioners to move the Supreme Court.Recounting that the 1992 verdict did leave a window open for the states to give reservation beyond 50% only after showing “extraordinary reasons,” all the five judges held that neither the state commission nor the state could demonstrate any valid reasons and the law therefore, was “unconstitutional” for violating the principle of equality and Article 16(4), which talked about inadequate representation of a class in public jobs.It pointed out that Marathas were adequately represented as more than 30% of the open category government posts in grades A, B, C and D, besides occupying at least 15% positions in Indian Administrative Services, Indian Police Services and Indian Foreign Services category in Maharashtra alone.“We are constrained to observe that when more people aspire for backwardness instead of forwardness, the country itself stagnates which situation is not in accord with constitutional objectives,” regretted the bench while nixing the Maratha quota law.The bench further clarified admissions and appointments made under the 2018 law till September 9, 2020 (when the Supreme Court stayed the operation of the law), shall not be disturbed but the candidates will not be able to avail any further benefit.In Maharashtra, Thackeray said the decision to give reservation to the community had been taken unanimously by both houses of the Maharashtra legislature and was based on the Gaikwad commission’s recommendations, but the apex court nullified it on the ground that the state has no right to offer such quota.He urged the Centre to show the same urgency on the issue as was shown in the 1985 Shah Bano case and scrapping of Jammu & Kashmir’s special status through a Constitutional amendment in 2019.In 1985, the central government enacted a law in Parliament to override the Shah Bano judgment after the Supreme Court granted the Muslim woman alimony for life amid protests against what was seen as an interference in Islamic personal laws.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) blamed the Shiv Sena-Nationalist Congress Party-Congress government for “failing” to convince the Supreme Court.Expressing disappointment, former CM Devendra Fadnavis claimed there was a “lack of co-ordination” on part of the state government.”There are many things about which we could have convinced the court...but the state government focused on some other aspects,” the state’s leader of Opposition said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-nixes-maratha-reservation-no-review-of-50-ceiling-on-quota-101620192021952.html
