07-05-2021||India||More than 167 million Covid-19 vaccine doses administered so far: Centre||The total number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered across the country has exceeded 16.71 crore, the Union health ministry said on Friday.It said 2,96,289 beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group received their first dose of Covid vaccine on Friday and cumulatively 14,78,865 people across 30 states and union territories.The total number of doses administered so far stands at 16,71,64,452, the ministry said.The beneficiaries include 95,19,788 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have taken the first dose and 64,28,032 HCWs who have taken the second dose, 1,38,49,396 frontline workers (FLWs) who have received the first dose, 76,31,653 FLWs who have taken the second dose and 14,78,865 people in the 18-44 age group who have taken the first dose, it said.Besides, 5,46,94,917 and 58,29,433 beneficiaries in the 45 to 60 age group have taken the first and second dose respectively, while 5,34,89,421 and 1,42,42,947 beneficiaries above 60 years have been administered the first and second dose, it added.According to a provisional report, 21,27,057 doses were administered on Friday, the 112th day of the vaccination drive. As many as 9,14,322 beneficiaries were administered the first dose and 12,12,735 received the second dose, the ministry said, adding that final reports for the day would be completed by late night."The vaccination exercise, as a tool to protect the most vulnerable population groups in the country from Covid-19, continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level," the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-than-167-million-covid-19-vaccine-doses-administered-so-far-centre-101620410267451.html
07-05-2021||India||Five days after election results, Assam yet to get a new CM||Results for the Assam assembly polls declared on May 2 gave a clear verdict to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and allies for another term in power. But five days after the outcome, voters in the state are not sure who will head the next government in Assam. This comes at a time when other states where elections took place simultaneously have already witnessed new heads of state assuming office. Mamata Banerjee took charge as West Bengal chief minister for a third time on Wednesday and MK Stalin took oath in Tamil Nadu on Friday. In Assam, the delay is due to the BJP leadership in New Delhi failing to select one among incumbent CM Sarbananda Sonowal and senior minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, both claimants for the top post. “Government formation will happen in due course. Right now all our focus is on controlling the spread of Covid19 across the state and saving lives,” Sonowal said on Friday while taking stock of facilities to tackle the disease. The BJP leadership is yet to send central observers to Assam to interact with the party’s state office-bearers and no official meeting of the 60 newly elected members have taken place to choose the new CM. “The delay was initially due to the violence in West Bengal after declaration of results in which the Trinamool Congress workers targeted our members. The prevailing Covid-19 situation in the country has also affected the decision on formation of the next government,” said BJP spokesperson Rupam Goswami. “There’s already a caretaker government in place in Assam and it is functioning well. There’s no difference within the party on the CM’s post and the same will be announced soon,” he added. The delay in government formation is happening at a time when the state is witnessing a spike in Covid-19 cases. On Thursday, Assam recorded 4,936 new positive cases, which was the highest ever single day figure for the state since the pandemic started last year. The state recorded 46 deaths on Thursday. “BJP got a clear and decisive mandate, but still it hasn’t been able to form a government. Especially at a time when the state is going through a difficult time, critical decisions like dates of board examinations and handling of the Covid19 spike shouldn’t be left to an ad-hoc government,” Congress Lok Sabha MP Pradyut Bordoloi said. “At present, what was needed was an all-out effort on war footing to check the alarming surge in Covid-19 and community spread of the disease seen in tea-gardens. But the delay exposes the bankruptcy of the BJP’s decision-making process,” he added. Akhil Ranjan Dutta, professor of political science in Gauhati University said that the BJP’s defeat in West Bengal could have played a part in delay in announcement of Assam’s next CM. “The outcome in West Bengal in a way eroded the moral authority of the BJP leadership to dictate or impose decisions in Assam. Therefore, they are taking time and indulging in negotiations as they are worried about a possible revolt,” Dutta said. “The BJP got its fourth successive poll victory in Assam in this election since 2014 general elections. But the delay in the government formation process amounts to complete insult to the faith reposed in the party by the voters,” he added. People aware of the developments confirmed late on Friday that both Sonowal and Sarma have been called to New Delhi by the party high command to sort out the leadership issue. Both leaders are scheduled to leave by a chartered flight early on Saturday and take part in meetings with senior leaders. It is also believed that the name of the next CM could be announced on Sunday and the oath-taking ceremony may be held on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/five-days-after-election-results-assam-yet-to-get-a-new-cm-101620410161800.html
07-05-2021||India||5 million Covishield doses meant for export to UK to be used in India||Fifty lakh doses of ‘Covishield’ vaccine earmarked by the Serum Institute for export to the United Kingdom have now been made available for the inoculation of 18-44 age group in 21 states/UTs in India, amid a surge in COVID-19 cases, official sources said.The Centre's decision to allocate these doses to 21 states and Union territories (UTs) came after Prakash Kumar Singh, director, Government and Regulatory Affairs at Pune-based Serum Institute of India, recently wrote to the Union health ministry seeking permission for the same.The Serum Institute had on March 23 sought permission from the ministry to supply 50 lakh doses of Covishield to the UK, citing an agreement with AstraZeneca in this regard, while assuring India that its own anti-coronavirus vaccination programme will not be disturbed due to this supply."The stock of 50 lakh doses of Covishield vaccine is now available for inoculation of 18-44 age group people in 21 states and UTs," an official source said.The ministry has asked the states to contact the company and initiate procurement activity promptly.While some states have been allocated 3,50,000 doses each, others got 1,00,000 doses each and two others have been assigned 50,000 doses each based on the COVID-19 caseload, official sources said.The jabs are labelled as ‘COVID-19 Vaccine AstraZeneca’ injections and not ‘Covishield’.Developed by Oxford University and Swedish-British pharma major AstraZeneca, Covishield is being manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII).India saw a record 4,14,188 new coronavirus infections in a day, pushing the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 2,14,91,598, while the death toll increased to 2,34,083 with 3,915 fatalities being reported in a span of 24 hours, according to the ministry data updated on Friday morning.The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers (HCWs) getting inoculated and the vaccination of frontline workers (FLWs) started from February 2.The next phase of the COVID-19 vaccination commenced from March 1 for those over 60 years of age and for people aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions.India launched vaccination for all people aged more than 45 years from April 1.Implementation of the Liberalised and Accelerated Phase 3 Strategy of COVID-19 Vaccination to inoculate those in the age group of 18-44 years started from May 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-million-covishield-doses-meant-for-export-to-uk-to-be-used-in-india-101620408294815.html
07-05-2021||India||Waiver of patent protections key step for scaling up manufacture, availability of vaccines: Shringla||India’s proposal at the World Trade Organization (WTO) for waiver of patent protections for Covid-19 vaccines is an important step for ensuring the rapid scaling up of manufacture and availability of vaccines, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said on Friday. In a virtual address to a UN Security Council debate on international peace and security and multilateralism, he said the challenges of today’s interdependent world cannot be addressed by outdated systems and a reformed Security Council is at the core of India’s call for reformed multilateralism. India has worked with South Africa and other partners in the WTO “to seek a relaxation in the norms of the TRIPS agreement to ensure quick and affordable access to vaccines and medicines for developing countries during the Covid-19 pandemic”, Shringla said. “This waiver will be an important step for enabling the rapid scaling up of manufacture and timely availability of affordable Covid-19 vaccines and essential medical products on a global basis,” he said, days after the US administration announced it backs a temporary suspension of patent protections for vaccines. India, he pointed out, provided Covid-19 vaccines, pharmaceuticals and medical equipment to more than 150 countries over the past year, and is now extending appreciation to “those that have come forward to provide us with some priority requirements to battle the second wave” of the pandemic. Shringla said the challenges of today’s dynamic and interdependent world, including terrorism, pandemics, climate change, threats from emerging technologies, disruptive role of non-state actors and intensifying geopolitical competition, can’t be addressed by outdated systems designed to deal with problems of the past. “While the UN has addressed most of these issues somewhat partially and intermittently, our collective effort has nonetheless fallen short in providing effective and enduring solutions, particularly due to the infirmities within the multilateral system,” he said. Shringla described 2021 as a “watershed moment” that provides a “timely opportunity to reflect on the effectiveness of the UN” in achieving its goals and objectives set out 75 years ago. The pandemic has sharpened awareness about global interdependence, and the lack of a coordinated global response has exposed the vulnerabilities and weaknesses of the contemporary multilateral system, he added. “At the core of India’s call for reformed multilateralism lies the reform of the UN Security Council, reflective of the contemporary realities of today. When power structures continue to reflect the status quo of a bygone era, they also start reflecting a lack of appreciation of contemporary geopolitical realities,” he said. Multilateral institutions must be made more accountable to members, and the Security Council must be more representative of developing countries in order to deliver effective solutions, Shringla said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/waiver-of-patent-protections-key-step-for-scaling-up-manufacture-availability-of-vaccines-shringla-101620407761315.html
07-05-2021||India||EU bank announces donation of 250,000 euros for India’s Covid-19 response||The European Investment Bank (EIB) on Friday announced an emergency donation of 250,000 euros to support India’s response to a second wave of Coronavirus infections by improving access to life-saving equipment and oxygen. The member states of the European Union (EU) have already provided equipment and supplies, including large oxygen generation plants, worth 100 million euros and the bloc has extended emergency support worth 2.2 million euros for the WHO to help with testing. EIB president Werner Hoyer announced the donation from the EU bank’s own funds in response to the escalating Covid-19 crisis in India. The funding will go to UNICEF Luxembourg, Red Cross International and Malteser International to acquire life-saving equipment, including oxygen generation plants and oxygen cylinders, urgently needed across India. The donation will also help reinforce key emergency services such as ambulances, blood supply and a 24/7 helpline. It will step up communication and awareness campaigns to address misinformation on Covid-19 immunisation, EIB said in a statement. Ahead of the virtual India-EU Summit on Saturday, the EIB and the State Bank of India and India’s finance ministry signed agreements for three sustainable investment projects – investments of 300 million euros in the metro systems in Kanpur and Pune, and a 25-million euro investment in NEEV II, an equity fund that backs small and medium businesses in India with innovative solutions for climate action. Hoyer said: “The EIB stands by India during these challenging times and our donation is a sign of solidarity and support. The EIB, as the EU Bank, is ready to strengthen cooperation with Indian partners to tackle the pandemic and recover as quickly as possible.” The new agreements signed by EIB will support the transformation of urban mobility for millions of commuters through the construction of world-class metro networks in Kanpur and Pune. “Our new cooperation with the State Bank of India, through the innovative NEEV II fund, will unlock 100 million euros of sustainable business investment by companies across India,” Hoyer said. EIB has so far invested 2.6 billion euros in urban metro systems in Bhopal, Kanpur, Pune, Lucknow and Bangalore. The two new metro systems will reduce pollution and greenhouse gas emissions and improve air quality in Pune and Kanpur. The new EIB financing builds on progress on the two projects using initial financing from the EU bank agreed in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eu-bank-announces-donation-of-250-000-euros-for-india-s-covid-19-response-101620405121065.html
07-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Kejriwal instructs officials to ensure bed availability, oxygen supply, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19: Kejriwal instructs officials to ensure availability of beds, oxygen supplyDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday instructed officers to ensure that there is no shortage of beds, now that the oxygen supply situation is coming under control. Read moreMucormycosis among Covid-19 patients not major, says Centre, lists 5 measuresReacting to reports of mucormycosis or black fungus among Covid-19 patients, Niti Aayog (health) member VK Paul on Friday said that the occurrence is natural and the correlation between mucormycosis and Covid-19 is not exclusive. The infection affects only those who have a high blood sugar level, notwithstanding the presence of Covid-19 infection. Read moreTMC spokesperson lodges complaint against actor Kangana Ranaut in KolkataA Trinamool Congress spokesperson has lodged a complaint against actor Kangana Ranaut at a police station in Kolkata for allegedly spreading hate propaganda in a bid to incite communal violence in West Bengal. Read moreHow women are shaping political fortunes in IndiaThe results of the recently concluded assembly elections have reaffirmed a phenomenon that has been increasingly discussed across the past few electoral seasons — the importance of women as a voting bloc in India. Read moreRavindra Jadeja returns as India announce squad for World Test Championship final and England TestsThe BCCI on Friday picked a strong 20-member squad for India's tour of England which starts next month. India will travel to England for a four-month long tour, which will begin with the World Test Championship final against New Zealand on June 18, before facing the hosts in a five-Test series. Read more'Abhinav Shukla will win': Rakhi Sawant predicts Khatron Ke Khiladi 11 winner, calls Mowgli her forefatherRakhi Sawant has shared her verdict on the Khatron Ke Khiladi 11 contestant list. The Bigg Boss 14 contestant was spotted on her daily coffee run in Mumbai on Friday where she discussed the adventure reality show with the paparazzi. Read moreAnand Mahindra’s share featuring lions from Junagarh talks about co-existenceBusiness tycoon Anand Mahindra is known for sharing many insightful posts on Twitter that garners much praise from netizens. His latest share is no different. The video features two lions drinking water from a reservoir inside a human settlement, but what makes the clip more profound is the caption shared alongside it. Read moreWatch: Covid: Doctors bust myths on prevention, medicines amid 3rd wave warning||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-kejriwal-instructs-officials-to-ensure-bed-availability-oxygen-supply-and-all-the-latest-news-101620399006999.html
07-05-2021||India||Telangana extends night curfew by a week, imposes curbs on public gatherings||The Telangana government on Friday announced the extension of night curfew for one more week to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the state, while imposing further restrictions on public gatherings. The orders were issued by chief secretary Somesh Kumar in the evening. The night curfew – from 9 pm to 6 am the following day – will continue till May 15. “All business establishments, hotels and other offices should be closed by 8 pm. Collectors and superintendents of police, besides commissioners of police in all major cities have been empowered to implement the night curfew,” the chief secretary said. The state government also imposed restrictions on public gatherings like marriages and other such events. Only 100 members would be allowed to attend any such event under strict compliance of Covid-19 norms. Similarly, for funerals, not more than 20 people would be allowed. The government completely banned political meetings, rallies, sports and other entertainment programmes in view of the Covid-19 situation. The Telangana government on Thursday night declared that there was no question of imposing any kind of lockdown – partial or total, to contain the spread of Coronavirus on the ground that it would lead to the total collapse of the financial system of the state. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, who held a high-level official meeting at his camp office late on Thursday, told officials that a lockdown would make life stand still and would affect the livelihood of over 25-30 lakh migrant workers from other states who work in Telangana. “Moreover, there is bumper yield of paddy in the state and workers are busy in procurement activity in 6144 procurement centres in the state. There are lakhs of people involved in the process. What will happen to the workers who have come from other states and are working in the rice mills, if lockdown is imposed? The entire paddy purchasing process will come to a standstill if lockdown is imposed,” he said. He said if the lockdown was imposed, it would lead to panic. “Hence we are not ready for lockdown. However, we will identify the areas where the cases of infection are more and declare them as micro-level containment zones and take the required measures,” he explained. According to the official bulletin from the state medical and health department, Telangana reported 5,559 new Covid-19 infections and 41 fatalities as on Friday evening, taking the cumulative number of positive cases to 4,87,199 and total deaths to 2,666. The number of active cases in Telangana currently stands at 71,308.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-extends-night-curfew-by-a-week-imposes-curbs-on-public-gatherings-101620400260700.html
07-05-2021||India||India to receive between 190-250 mn fully subsidised Covid vaccines; $30 mn fin assistance: Gavi||Gavi, a global alliance on vaccines, on Friday said that India would receive between 190 and 250 million fully subsidised doses of Covid-19 vaccine and funds up to USD 30 million for urgent technical assistance and cold chain equipment.A decision on the matter was taken by the COVAX Board in December, a Gavi spokesperson said.Gavi, previously called Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunisation is a public–private global health partnership which is leading the global effort to provide vaccines to low- and middle-income countries.“Gavi commits its full support to helping India come through its current crisis. In December 2020, the COVAX Board agreed that India would receive approximately 20 per cent of the total doses available to AMC (Advance Market Commitment)- eligible countries through the COVAX Facility – estimated at between 190 and 250 million fully-subsidised doses – subject to vaccine prices and available funds,” a Gavi spokesperson told PTI."India is also to receive 20 per cent of the total funding available to AMC- eligible countries for urgent technical assistance and cold chain equipment, or USD 30 million," the spokesperson said.Responding to a question, Gavi acknowledged that the current crisis in India has impacted its vaccine supply chain given that the country has been a major producer and supplier of vaccines.Much of COVAX’s second quarter supplies were due to be fulfilled by the Serum Institute of India (SII). As SII focuses production towards domestic needs, this has inevitably led to a shortfall for other parts of the world, the spokesperson said.As a result, COVAX is aiming to address this in the very short term by securing dose donations from high income economies that have a surplus, as well as working towards other short-medium term goals such as diversifying its portfolio of suppliers and decreasing bottlenecks that are currently hampering global production increases, the spokesperson noted.Gavi welcomed the decision by the United States government to use all mechanisms to increase global equitable access to Covid-19 vaccines.“We also recognise the significance of the (Biden) administration's commitment to work towards increasing raw material production which will have an immediate impact on alleviating current global supply constraints,” the spokesperson said.It is important now that in the interests of global equitable access, that the US supports manufacturers to transfer not only IP but also know-how in a bid to urgently boost global production, said the spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-receive-between-190-250-million-fully-subsidised-covid-vaccines-gavi-101620394755668.html
07-05-2021||India||TMC spokesperson lodges complaint against actor Kangana Ranaut in Kolkata||A Trinamool Congress spokesperson has lodged a complaint against actor Kangana Ranaut at a police station in Kolkata for allegedly spreading hate propaganda in a bid to incite communal violence in West Bengal. “Ranaut has made several offensive posts from her verified official Instagram handle in the story section. She has also distorted and maligned the image of chief minister of West Bengal, Mamata Banerjee,” the complaint read. The complaint was filed by Riju Dutta, spokesperson of the TMC, at the Ultadanga police station late on Thursday night. “We have received a complaint and a FIR has been lodged,” said an officer of the police station. The actor had allegedly attacked the chief minister over post-poll violence and had uploaded distorted pictures of the Bengal chief minister accusing her of unleashing a Hindu genocide.Banerjee had on Thursday told the media that at least 16 people have been killed in post-poll violence in the state. Ranaut’s Twitter account was ‘permanently suspended’ on Tuesday, after she posted a series of tweets reacting to the recent West Bengal assembly election results. This isn’t the first time that the actor has been penalised by the social media platform. Earlier this year, certain restrictions were imposed on her account after her tweet against Amazon Prime Video web-series Tandav, in which she said it was ‘time to take (the makers’) heads off’ for hurting religious sentiments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-spokesperson-lodges-complaint-against-actor-kangana-ranaut-in-kolkata-101620392519902.html
07-05-2021||India||WhatsApp scraps May 15 deadline for accepting privacy policy terms||WhatsApp has scrapped its May 15 deadline for users to accept its controversial privacy policy update and said not accepting the terms will not lead to deletion of accounts.WhatsApp had faced severe backlash over user concerns that data was being shared with parent company Facebook.A WhatsApp spokesperson told PTI that no accounts will be deleted on May 15 for not accepting the policy update."No accounts will be deleted on May 15 because of this update and no one in India will lose functionality of WhatsApp either. We will follow up with reminders to people over the next several weeks," the spokesperson said in an emailed response to a query on Friday.The spokesperson added that while a "majority of users who have received the new terms of service have accepted them", some people have not had the chance to do so yet.However, the company did not clarify the reason behind the decision and did not divulge the number of users who have accepted the terms so far.In January this year, WhatsApp had informed users about the changes in its terms of service and public policy through an in-app notification. Users were initially given time till February 8 to agree to the new terms in order to continue using the platform.According to WhatsApp, the key updates include more information about its service and how it processes user data; how businesses can use Facebook hosted services to store and manage their WhatsApp chats; and how WhatsApp partners with Facebook to offer integrations across the company products.WhatsApp has insisted that the acceptance of the privacy policy update does not expand its ability to share user data with Facebook.However, user backlash over WhatsApp's alleged sharing of user information with Facebook forced the company to postpone the February deadline to May 15.The WhatsApp spokesperson said the company has spent the last few months working to "clear up confusion and misinformation". "As a reminder, this update does not impact the privacy of personal messages for anyone. Our goal is to provide information about new options we are building that people will have, to message a business on WhatsApp, in the future," the spokesperson said.The company further stated that it will take every opportunity to explain how it protects people's personal messages and private information. The softening of stance on the deadline comes at a time when digital platforms like Facebook, Twitter and WhatsApp have become lifelines for people looking for oxygen cylinders, hospital beds, plasma donors and ventilators as the country reels under the deadly second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic.India is the biggest market for WhatsApp, and the platform -- as per government data -- has 53 crore users in the country.India remains a critical market for Internet companies like Facebook with its large population base and burgeoning Internet adoption.The country is the world's second-largest telecom market and the biggest consumer of data. Following the backlash faced by WhatsApp earlier this year, the popularity of rivals like Telegram and Signal surged as users thronged these platforms. WhatsApp, in the past, has said it is open to answering any questions from the government on the privacy issue and that it will continue to explain to users that their messages are end-to-end encrypted.It had also sought to assuage user concerns through blog posts and tweets by its Global Head Will Cathcart and even full-page ads in leading dailies in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/whatsapp-scraps-may-15-deadline-for-accepting-privacy-policy-terms-101620390353144.html
07-05-2021||India||Kerala: Covid-19 call centre operations resume as cases spike||As Kerala continued to witness a spike in Covid-19 cases in the second wave, the Health Department has recommenced its call centre to redress the doubts and concerns of people and help them by passing on information regarding the pandemic.The doubts, raised by callers, would be cleared and significant information collected from them would be forwarded to different district authorities and departments concerned for further action.The operation of the call centre resumed in the wake of a surge in the number of Covid-19 patients, a Health Department statement said here.Selected staff are deployed at the call centres after they are imparted expert training to answer various queries related to the pandemic, it added.As the government announced a lockdown in the state from Saturday, the Health Department also expanded 'esanjeevani', its telemedicine system, to help people to get the service of expert doctors while staying safe at home.As part of this, the Covid-19 out-patient (OP) service through the 'esanjeevani' platform has been extended to 24 hours from Friday.Anyone, who is under observation for suspected virus infection, those undergoing treatment for the disease and those with symptoms, can avail the service.For this, doctors, with experience and expertise in treating COVID-19, are assigned for 24 hours, a health department statement added.Meanwhile, a multilingual call centre, launched by the state Labour Department to clear the doubts raised by the migrant workers and settle their issues during the pandemic days, is operational now.Call centres and control rooms have been set up for guest workers at the state level in the Labour Commissionerate here and also at 14 district headquarters, official sources said.Bilingual officials are assigned in these centres to answer the queries and doubts raised by the guest workers, they said adding that call centre services are available in various languages including Assamese, Oriya, Bengali and Hindi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-covid-19-call-centre-operations-resume-as-cases-spike-101620379537707.html
07-05-2021||India||Goa govt imposes 15-day lockdown from May 9 amid Covid-19 spike||Goa government on Friday imposed a 15-day lockdown starting from May 9 at 9am. Curfew like restrictions will be imposed in the state. However, essentials will be available between 7am and 1pm while takeaway will be allowed from 7am to 7pm.Earlier in the day, Sawant had hinted at a lockdown in the state to curb the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Sawant said all the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLAs have been asked to set up a war room in their constituencies to coordinate efforts to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic. "The MLAs will also have to start round-the-clock call centres which will be in touch with Covid-19 patients," he added.Goa is currently under stringent Covid-19-related lockdown, which includes closure of non-essential shops. The restrictions come at a time when Goa is battling a high positivity rate -- 51.65% with 3,496 of the 6,769 tests conducted emerging positive. Sawant has said that he expects the positivity rate to come down over the next 10 days as the effects of the state ramping up testing are yet to be seen.Goa on Thursday reported 3,869 fresh Covid-19 cases that took the infection count to 1,08,267, an official from the health department said. The death toll mounted to 1,501 after 58 patients died of the infection. There are now 29,752 active cases. The case tally stands at 1,08,267.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-govt-imposes-15-day-lockdown-from-may-9-amid-covid-19-spike-101620389667785.html
07-05-2021||India||Kerala HC refuses to stay govt order to cap RT-PCR test at ₹500||The Kerala high court on Friday refused to stay a government order reducing the price of RT-PCR tests for Covid-19 from ₹1,700 to ₹500 for private laboratories.A single bench accepted the contention of the government that the decision was based on a study conducted by the Kerala Medical Services Corporation. The government pleader also said the prices of the tests in other states range from ₹400 to ₹600.Also Read | 414,188 new Covid cases recorded in India in biggest daily spike, 3,915 deathsThe petitioners argued that the decision was taken without consultation with private laboratories, and they will incur huge losses if they get a high volume of tests. But the government contended that a testing kit costs ₹270, and the rest can be considered as the fee for human resources, etc.“The government arrived at the rate after conducting the market study. We also found that charges in many other states like Haryana, Telangana, and Uttarakhand are within the same range. Considering the present situation, we do not find any reason to stay the government order,” the court said.Many laboratories stopped RT-PCR tests citing losses. Later, the government threatened to confiscate them and prompted 10 leading private laboratories to move the court two weeks back.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-hc-refuses-to-stay-govt-order-to-cap-rt-pcr-test-at-rs-500-101620390599802.html
07-05-2021||India||India has administered over 168mn Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered over 168 million coronavirus vaccine doses by Thursday, May 7. The Centre has promised to provide more than a million vaccine doses to the states and Union Territories within the next three days.In an official release, the ministry of health said they would be providing a total of 1,025,000 vaccine doses to the states and union territories within the next three days.Meanwhile, by Thursday 8pm, 164,876,248 vaccine doses had been given in India. In the 18-44 year category, 262,932 beneficiaries received their first dose and cumulatively, 1,164,076 beneficiaries in this category got their shot across 12 states/UT.Also Read | War rooms, field hospitals helped Mumbai in battle of second wave: OfficialsThe over 164 million number includes 9,500,564 healthcare workers who have had their first dose and 6,391,562 who have got their second dose as well. As many as 13,758,487 frontline workers have had their first dose while 7,536,320 have got their second dose too.In the 45-59-year age group, 54,289,107 people have got their first dose and another 5,344,986 have had their second dose as well. In the 60+ category, 53,318,278 people have been administered their first dose while 13,572,868 have had their second dose as well.As many as 2,298,530 vaccine doses were given by the evening. Of this, 1,024,548 beneficiaries were vaccinated with the first dose and 1,273,982 beneficiaries received their second dose as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-over-168mn-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101620390364156.html
07-05-2021||India||MP extends suspension of passenger bus services to neighbouring states||Madhya Pradesh on Friday extended the suspension of passenger bus services to Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan until May 15 due to the rise in Covid 19 cases.“As the chief minister extended Janta [people’s] curfew in MP [Madhya Pradesh] till May 15 so we have also extended the [suspension of] passenger bus services,” said additional commissioner (transport) Arvind Saxena. Also Read | States step up curbs as Covid-19 tightens gripThe bus services to Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh were suspended in March and those to Uttar Pradesh in April after a surge in cases due to Mahakumbh in Haridwar (Uttarakhand).The transportation of essential goods will remain unaffected even as borders with the neighbouring states have been sealed. “After the panchayat election, the cases of Covid 19 in the villages of Uttar Pradesh have been increased and people are coming to Madhya Pradesh for treatment. They are becoming super-spreaders in the villages of Madhya Pradesh. We have sealed the borders and deployed a police force to check the entry of people from Uttar Pradesh,” said Rakesh Singh, police superintendent, Rewa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-extends-suspension-of-passenger-bus-services-to-neighbouring-states-101620389639607.html
07-05-2021||India||DDMA quarantine for those coming to Delhi based on false report: Scientists||An order on Thursday that cited a virulent Covid-19 variant for mandatory 14-day quarantine for people arriving in Delhi from Andhra Pradesh and Telangana is based on a refuted news report, scientists said on Friday. The report referred to a paper, which is yet to be peer-reviewed. It was refuted by Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomic Consortia, which is responsible for sequencing the viral genomes and keeping track of dominant variants in the country.Dr Anurag Agarwal, the director of New Delhi’s Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, said: “The news of N440K mutant on which this seems to be based was incorrect.”Rakesh Mishra, the director of Hyderbad’s Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB), said it takes time to sequence the viral genome, analyse it, and then upload it to the database. “The variant was dominant in South India a few months back, but it is on its way out now. It has virtually disappeared from Karnataka and Kerala. Another few weeks and it will be extinct. It is not driving the current surge in cases.”The paper was based on laboratory experiments to determine the clinical implications of the mutation. The scientists found that the N440K mutation produced 10 times the viral load than the previous variants in circulation.Also Read | PIL to vaccinate Board exam students: HC seeks Centre, Delhi govt stand“Lineages with #N440K are NOT the dominant ones in the second wave of #Covid19inIndia. Also, it is important to remember that just because a variant behaves a certain way in cell cultures (with no competition, and in controlled settings), it does not mean it will behave the same way in humans, or in a complicated pandemic scenario,” said Divya Tej Sowpati, a researcher from CCMB, in a tweet.The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Thursday ordered the mandatory quarantine at government or paid facilities if those arriving from Andhra and Telangana do not have RT-PCR Covid-19 negative reports issued 72 hours prior to their arrival.In its order, DDMA said the virulent variant of Covid-19 reported to have been found in the two states has a shorter incubation period and high transmission rate. “...the progress of disease is much more rapid. Therefore additionally precautionary measures in respect of persons coming from the states of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana to Delhi via airlines, trains, buses, cars, trucks or any other mode of transportation are required to be taken in public interest.”HT has reached out to DDMA for a comment. The copy will be updated once it is received.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ddma-quarantine-for-those-coming-to-delhi-based-on-false-report-scientists-101620389039054.html
07-05-2021||India||J&K admin creating hurdles for NGOs helping Covid patients, alleges Omar||Former chief minister Omar Abdullah has criticised the Jammu & Kashmir administration for “creating hurdles” in the working of non-governmental organisations (NGOs), especially those providing medical help to the Covid-19 patients.“Don’t throw the baby out with the bathwater. Stopping the hoarding/black marketing of oxygen cylinders is a laudable goal. Preventing NGOs or making it tougher for them to help people get [oxygen] cylinders is dangerous. NGOs were working when the government was still in deep slumber,” tweeted Abdullah.He shared Srinagar deputy commissioner Mohammad Aijaz’s order on Thursday directing vendors to stop supplying oxygen to NGOs.Also Read | J&K’s grimmest day with record 4,926 cases, 52 deathsAijaz said the order was issued to ensure an adequate supply of oxygen to hospitals amid reports of black marketing. “...all oxygen manufacturing units within the jurisdiction of district Srinagar shall supply oxygen refills only to designated hospitals/clinics and will stop supply to any private society/NGO with immediate effect. Supplies to private persons/ societies/NGO’s (other than private hospitals) shall be made only with the prior approval of District Magistrate...,” he said in his order.After a backlash, Aijaz, in a tweet, said to provide fair and equal access to oxygen supply to the neediest patients, things have been streamlined. He added a proper mechanism is in place to ensure a regular supply.On Friday, local NGOs also held a meeting with the administration. “We told the government that NGOs are helping people so if oxygen is stopped, people will face problems. The matter has been resolved,” said Farooq Ahmad, an NGO worker.Srinagar had 10,666 active Covid-19 cases until Thursday, the highest in Jammu & Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jkadmin-creating-hurdles-for-ngos-helping-covid-patients-allegesomar-101620387719522.html
07-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Covid-19 3rd wave may not take place equally at every place, says expert and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.3rd wave of Covid-19 may not take place equally at every place, says expertK Vijay Raghavan, the principal scientific advisor to the government, on Friday clarified his earlier comment on a third wave of the pandemic being inevitable in the country and said such a wave may not take place equally at every place if adequate precautions are taken. "It may not take place at all if precautions are taken. The pandemic has different peaks and falls across the country," the expert said. Read more‘Gall to oppose the same project you…’: Puri rebuts Congress on Central VistaCivil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri slammed the Congress party on Friday on its questioning of the government’s Central Vista project, related to the redevelopment and construction of a new Parliament and a common central secretariat, and said that the incessant questioning by the Congress party exposes their “shameful double face”. Read moreCurb post-poll violence in Bengal, RSS asks TMCThe Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) on Friday criticised the West Bengal’s Trinamool Congress (TMC) government for failing to curb post-poll violence against its opponents and said it should establish rule of law, act against the culprits and instill a feeling of safety and confidence among the affected people. Read moreIf we fail to complete the IPL, the loss will be close to INR 2500 crore: BCCI president Sourav GangulyThe 2021 edition of the Indian Premier League was suspended indefinitely after 29 matches were played due to a rise in the number of Covid-19 cases inside the bio-bubble. Read moreYou’ll have to look twice to believe this Spider-man is a cake. Clip may make you droolThere are many videos on the Internet that showcase the talent of home-bakers as they churn out some surreal looking cakes. This Instagram clip of an inverted Spider-man cake is a delicious addition to those clips. With a first glance you may mistake it for a normal action figure but let us assure you that the making process may make your jaw drop. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5pm-covid-19-3rd-wave-may-not-take-place-equally-at-every-place-says-expert-and-all-the-latest-news-101620386498227.html
07-05-2021||India||‘Gall to oppose the same project you…’: Puri rebuts Congress on Central Vista||Civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri slammed the Congress party on Friday on its questioning of the government’s Central Vista project, related to the redevelopment and construction of a new Parliament and a common central secretariat, and said that the incessant questioning by the Congress party exposes their “shameful double face”.“Congress doesn’t stop at hypocrisy. Look at their shameful double face. During UPA, Congress leaders wrote about the need for a new parliament. The Speaker in 2012 wrote a letter to the Urban Development Ministry for the same. And now they have the gall to oppose the same project?” Puri wrote in a series of tweets.Congress doesn’t stop at hypocrisy. Look at their shameful double face.During UPA, Congress leaders wrote about the need for a new parliament. The Speaker in 2012 wrote a letter to Urban Development Ministry for the same. And now they have the gall to oppose the same project? pic.twitter.com/33weJfsed1Puri also said that the government was well aware of its priorities adding that healthcare is one of the major priorities of the government.Read more: 20 heritage jamun trees may be uprooted in Central Vista revamp“Congress’s discourse on Central Vista is bizarre. Cost of Central Vista is about ₹20,000 crore, over several years. GoI has allocated nearly twice that amount for vaccination! India’s healthcare budget for just this year was over ₹3 lakh crore. We know our priorities,” Puri wrote on the micro-blogging site.“There are hundreds of projects being executed by various depts. Governance hasn’t come to a standstill, unlike the Congress’s times of policy paralysis. Central Vista is just another ongoing project. It’s only the Congress that’s obsessed about it, nobody else. Moreover, only projects for New Parliament Building & rejuvenation of Central Vista Avenue have been awarded at an estimated cost of ₹862 crore & ₹477 crore respectively till now. As I said, there are many components in the Central Vista project which are spread over several years,” Puri further wrote.Read more: Delhi high court defers hearing on plea seeking suspension of Central Vista project work amid Covid-19 surgeEarlier in the day, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi questioned the Centre over the Central Vista project. Calling the project "criminal wastage," Gandhi wrote, "Put people’s lives at the centre- not your blind arrogance to get a new house!" on Twitter. The Congress party has often questioned the government on the Central Vista project urging them to shelve the project and give priority to improving medical infrastructure in the country as it faces the challenge of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.In his post, Puri further said that the questions posed by the Congress party on the project are just “cheap politics” done to “spread lies.”Read more: PM house in new Central Vista given green clearance“They want to distract people from monumental governance failures in their states by spreading lies. So they indulge in cheap politics despite knowing this project creates direct & indirect employment for thousands of skilled, semi-skilled & unskilled workers in these times. While Central Vista is not new, see Congress’ hypocrisy. Congress & its allies are splurging on a new project reconstructing an MLA hostel in Maharashtra & building a new Legislative Assembly building in Chhattisgarh. If this is fine, what is the problem with Central Vista?,” Puri wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gall-to-oppose-the-same-project-you-puri-rebuts-congress-on-central-vista-101620384221125.html
07-05-2021||India||Armed forces spearhead India’s Covid response as crisis deepens||“’Jal’, ‘Thal’ and ‘Nabh’...our armed forces have left no stone unturned in strengthening the fight against COVID-19.” This tweet by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday recognised the critical contributions of the navy, army and air force to India’s pandemic response. The military has swiftly marshalled enormous resources to help manage -- in some measure -- what is being dubbed the world’s biggest health crisis.The armed forces, officials said on Friday, are operating in full battle mode for Covid relief. They foresee a bigger role for themselves in the coming weeks and months to help tackle the devastating second wave of the pandemic even as they cater to the health needs of serving soldiers, veterans and their dependents.Modi has reviewed the military’s preparations for Covid relief four times since April 26 in one-on-one meetings with the chief of defence staff and the three service chiefs.Firing on all cylindersThe armed forces are in the vanguard of the fight against the disease. They have helped meet the exploding demand for oxygen, set up Covid hospitals and opened military hospitals to civilians and transported critical medical stores.The Indian Air Force (IAF) is flying sorties daily to international and domestic locations to help overcome a shortage of oxygen. It has deployed eight C-17 Globemaster III aircraft, four IL-76s, 10 C-130J Super Hercules special operations aircraft, 20 An-32 transport planes, 10 Dornier aircraft and 20 helicopters for Covid-related duties.The IAF is airlifting much-needed empty oxygen containers from abroad and domestic locations to filling stations across the country to help beat oxygen shortages. Till May 6, IAF aircraft clocked almost 400 flying hours while performing Covid-related duties.Also Read | PM, Scott Morrison agree on importance of equitable access to Covid-19 vaccinesIAF chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria has ordered 24x7 readiness of the force’s entire heavy-lift fleet and substantial numbers of the medium-lift fleet to operate in a hub and spoke model for Covid-related duties.“IAF transport aircraft carried out 50 sorties, airlifting 61 oxygen containers of 1,142 MT capacity from abroad. Within the country, it carried out 344 sorties, airlifting 230 containers of 4,527 MT capacity till May 5,” defence minister Rajnath Singh said on Thursday, enumerating the steps taken by the armed forces in the battle against Covid.The army is helping authorities set up and run Covid facilities, treating civilians at military hospitals and providing medical specialists, super specialists and paramedics for adequate staffing at non-military hospitals, officials said.On Thursday, it mobilised two field hospitals by air from the northeast to Patna to assist the Bihar government set up a 500-bed Covid facility, including 100 intensive care unit (ICU) beds. Also, around 750 beds in various military hospitals across the country have been reserved for civilians.The army has also set up a Covid management cell under a three-star general to help civilian authorities. It is headed by the Director-General of Operational Logistics and Strategic Movement, who reports directly to the vice chief. The main responsibility of the new cell is to coordinate Covid-related logistics support across the country. The army is also liaising with state governments to help them deal with the unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases.Also Read | Kuwait sends 215 MT of oxygen, ready to supply 1,400 MT in all, says envoyThe navy has assigned several of its warships - nine, at the last count - to ferry liquid oxygen-filled cryogenic containers and other medical stores from countries in the Middle East and South-East Asia under Operation Samudra Setu-II.On April 27, CDS General Bipin Rawat said the military still has “long distances to travel” in the Covid fight, a clear reference to the challenges lying ahead.Future courseSome experts and officials believe that the military has the potential to expand the scope of its assistance to the civilian authorities in these extraordinary times.The army, with its vast resources, can play a critical role in providing logistics support to civilian authorities, setting up communication centres to coordinate Covid relief, strengthening supply chain management, conducting outreach in remote areas, building more medical infrastructure and also helping with vaccination, said Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd).“Involving the military brings in an element of effectiveness. It has the capacity, skills and leadership to mount a swift response,” Hooda added.While the involvement of the armed forces in Covid relief efforts can be increased, many believe it is paramount that resources are not overstretched given the military’s vast operational responsibilities along the borders with China and Pakistan.In an article in Hindustan Times on May 5, strategic affairs expert Commodore C Uday Bhaskar wrote that maximising the institutional capacity of the military in the war against Covid, without diluting its primary operational orientation, in the backdrop of a resource crunch, is the task ahead for the Indian political and defence leadership.“The military’s core characteristics are professional competence, innovation in the face of adversity, proven organisational acumen and a deeply ingrained spirit of selfless service. Add to this the intrinsic training ethos of the military and some policy options can be identified,” Bhaskar wrote.Lieutenant General BS Sandhu (retd), a former director-general of supplies and transport, said the military can provide engineering support, help repair medical equipment and speed up the movement of critical medical stores. “However, we have to ensure that channelling resources into the Covid fight does not dilute the military’s operational role. More Covid waves are being predicted, and the role of the armed forces in this fight can’t be stretched beyond a limit,” he said The defence minister on Thursday said that the military’s efforts for Covid relief did not undermine its operational readiness. “All the efforts and initiatives by the armed forces and various organisations of the defence ministry…are being done without compromising the objective of defending the nation from any external threat.”Singh said the armed forces were walking the extra mile for the nation to emerge a winner in the fight against Covid. “Hard times demand the manifestation of an indomitable spirit to fight against the odds and that is what the country is doing at the moment.”Building capacitiesThe government has sanctioned emergency financial powers for the military and its medical wing to strengthen and accelerate efforts to deal with the crisis.While vice chiefs of armed forces, including the chief of integrated defence staff to the chairman chiefs of staff committee (CISC) and army commanders (and their equivalent ranks in the navy and air force) have been given “full powers”, corps commanders and area commanders have been delegated powers to spend up to ₹50 lakh per case.These powers have been granted for a period of three months, from May 1 to July 31.Also Read | Taiwan, Uzbekistan send support for India’s Covid-19 responseDivision commanders/sub area commanders and their equivalent ranks in the navy and air force have been delegated powers to spend up to ₹20 lakh per case. Such powers were sanctioned last year too when the pandemic first broke out.Emergency buying powers have also been conferred on senior military doctors. While the heads of the medical wings of the three services have been given powers to make purchases worth ₹five crore, doctors holding the ranks of major general and brigadier can now make procurements worth ₹three crore and ₹two crore, respectively.The armed forces are also marshalling 600 retired military doctors for Covid relief.DRDO, DPSUs fully involvedThe Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and defence public sector undertakings (DPSUs) are fully involved in Covid relief. The DRDO has so far set up or is in the process of setting up state-of-the-art Covid hospitals in six cities to treat more than 3,100 critical patients. It is also extending technical support to state governments in setting up temporary Covid hospitals, officials said.DRDO will set up 500 medical oxygen generating plants across the country within three months under the PM-CARES Fund to ramp up oxygen production.The Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) has earmarked nearly 60% of its existing medical set-up for Covid care. As many as 813 beds out of a total of 1,405 are reserved for Covid patients. The OFB is providing Covid care at its medical facilities in 25 locations across Maharashtra, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Odisha and Uttarakhand.The OFB is the country’s main producer of military arsenal.State-run plane-maker Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) is setting up a 250-bed Covid hospital in Lucknow. It has already set up two Covid facilities in Bengaluru with 250 and 180 beds each. It has also operationalised a 70-bed facility in Odisha’s Koraput and a 40-bed hospital in Maharashtra’s Nasik.The DPSUs are fast-tracking the procurement of oxygen plants for state government hospitals under their corporate social responsibility scheme. These include HAL, Bharat Dynamics Limited, Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders Limited and Garden Reach Shipbuilders & Engineers Limited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/armed-forces-spearhead-india-s-covid-response-as-crisis-deepens-101620386639467.html
07-05-2021||India||Curb post-poll violence in Bengal, RSS asks TMC||The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) on Friday criticised the West Bengal’s Trinamool Congress (TMC) government for failing to curb post-poll violence against its opponents and said it should establish rule of law, act against the culprits and instill a feeling of safety and confidence among the affected people.“We urge upon the Union government to take necessary and all possible steps to establish peace in West Bengal and ensure that state government acts...” said RSS general secretary Dattatreya Hosabale in a statement.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has blamed TMC, which swept back to power on Sunday, for violence against its workers and supporters. It has said many of its workers have been grievously injured in the violence. On Thursday, Union minister V Muraleedharn’s vehicle was allegedly attacked in West Bengal.Referring to the violence, Hosable said,” The first and foremost responsibility of the ruling administration, whichever party may be in power, is to establish peace and safety in society by maintaining law and order, to instill fear of law in the minds of the antisocial elements, and to punish those involved in violent activities. The electoral victory belongs to political parties, but the elected government is accountable to the entire society.”Also Read | Bengal House now wears bipartisan political shadeHosable lashed out at the Mamata Banerjee government. “That the role of state administrative missionary was completely passive, and they remained mute spectators was the most heinous part of this unabated and inhuman violence. Neither the rioters seemed to be afraid of anything nor is there any initiative by the state police and administration to control the violence.”He also referred to alleged attacks on women and children. “...It is but natural that the opposing sides...sometimes cross the limits in making allegations and counter-allegations. However, we should always remember that all contesting parties belong to our country only and all those participating in the elections – the candidates, their supporters, the voters – are citizens of the nation.”There was no immediate response from the TMC, which has earlier rubbished the allegations as fake and said its workers have also been killed. Banerjee has also appealed for peace.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/curb-post-poll-violence-in-bengal-rss-asks-tmc-101620386040785.html
07-05-2021||India||3rd wave of Covid-19 may not occur everywhere, explains govt's expert||K Vijay Raghavan, the principal scientific advisor to the government, on Friday clarified his earlier comment that a third wave of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic is inevitable in the country and said such a wave may not take place everywhere in the country if adequate precautions are taken. "It may not take place at all if precautions are taken. The pandemic has different peaks and falls across the country," the expert said, adding that the only condition for such waves is the presence of a susceptible population."It may be useful to talk about the location, timing and intensity of infections instead of waves and their number, although the latter is in common usage. If we take strong measures, the third wave may not happen at all places or indeed anywhere at all. It depends on how effectively the guidance is implemented at the local level, in the states, in districts," Raghavan said, referring to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, local lockdown measures etc.The "insidious, asymptomatic" transmission of the virus can be stopped, if the guidance on testing, treating, containing is followed, he said. "This sounds difficult, it is difficult but we can and must do it," he added.How different will Covid's 3rd wave be from first two? What government says"Very simply put, the infections rise when the virus has the opportunity to infect people. When the virus runs out of opportunities, infections fall," he said. Explaining, the principal scientific advisor said that when a large number of people is vaccinated against the virus or is following social distancing and other precautions, the virus runs out of opportunities.But when the virus runs out of opportunities, it does not mean that it has been eliminated. If new opportunities are given to them, cases will again rise. And new opportunities can arise if people become complacent, and if people think the pandemic is over, the expert explained."The frequency and the size of these ups and downs may be reduced as this is in our hands. Remember, asymptomatic people can also transmit the infection. This is all the more reason why you should maintain social distancing and proper hygiene," he said.This comes as a departure from his earlier comment where he warned the country of a third wave of the pandemic. In his earlier warning, he said a third wave seems inevitable given the high levels of the virus in circulation, though it's not clear when the third wave may attack. As people are building immunity against the virus, the virus is finding new ways to infect people. That's how the virus has worked so far, Raghavan earlier said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3rd-wave-may-not-take-place-equally-at-every-place-says-government-expert-101620385649432.html
07-05-2021||India||Stalin begins tenure by signing orders for welfare of Covid-19 affected, women||MK Stalin announced ₹4,000 assistance each to over 20 million ration cardholders facing financial difficulties due to the Covid-19 pandemic after he was sworn in as the Tamil Nadu chief minister on Friday.The order for the package was among the five he signed in line with promises made in the election manifesto of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, which returned to power in the state on Sunday.The ₹4,000 assistance will be paid in two installments beginning this month and will cost the state ₹4,153 crore.Also Watch | DMK president MK Stalin sworn in as Tamil Nadu chief ministerStalin extended the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme to cover treatment for Covid-19 in private hospitals for existing beneficiaries as infections surge. All working women and those pursuing higher education will now get to travel on state-owned buses for free from Saturday. Stalin ordered slashing of Aavin milk sold by Tamil Nadu Co-operative Milk Producers’ Federation Limited by ₹3. The state has sanctioned ₹1,200 crore for the purpose.A new department has also been formed to address people’s grievances within the first 100 days of the new government. The grievances were received during the “Stalin in your constituency” campaign.As many as 33 ministers took oath along with Stalin on Friday. Four bureaucrats have also been named as Stalin’s private secretaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stalin-sworn-in-as-tamil-nadu-chief-minister-101620385559246.html
07-05-2021||India||India's Biological E to begin Phase III trial of vaccine, production from August||India's Biological E. Ltd will soon start Phase III trials of its COVID-19 vaccine and plans producing 75 million to 80 million doses a month from August, its managing director told Reuters on Friday.The company has developed the vaccine with Baylor College of Medicine in Houston and Dynavax Technologies Corp. Late last month it received approval from India's drug regulator to conduct a Phase III clinical trial, which Managing Director Mahima Datla said would begin soon.Government officials have said the vaccine, which uses the recombinant-protein technology in which a harmless agent is used to stimulate an immune response in cells, could be rolled out in the country from August.Datla said Biological E. would apply for emergency use authorisation (EUA) for the drug based on government advice.Production "from August but EUA depends on the government. Will follow their advice and directives," she said in a text message. "75-80 million doses a month from the time of launch."Datla declined to comment on any firm deal to contract-manufacture the Johnson & Johnson vaccine. She told Reuters in February that Biological E. was looking to make about 600 million doses of the J&J vaccine annually.J&J said last month it was in talks with India's government to begin a clinical trial of its single-dose shot.India, battling the world's worst jump in coronavirus infections, has partially or fully immunized only about 10% of its 1.35 billion people. It has administered a total of 163 million doses of the AstraZeneca shot and a domestically made one called Covaxin.The country has also received doses of the Sputnik V vaccine from Russia though it has not been launched yet in the country. India has also urged Pfizer/BioNTech and Moderna to sell their shots to the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-biological-e-to-begin-phase-iii-trial-of-vaccine-production-from-august-101620380211704.html
07-05-2021||India||Allocate more oxygen to Bengal to prevent deaths: Mamata to PM||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to allocate at least 550 metric tonne (MT) of medical oxygen to the state every day, without which, she said, more Covid patients may lose their lives. In her third letter to the PM in as many days, she wrote,“Any allocation of medical oxygen less than the requested amount (550 MT) will not only adversely affect the supply of medical oxygen but may also result in loss of lives of the patients, in the state.”On Thursday, West Bengal reported 18,431 new Covid-19 cases with the death toll at 117. On May 5, soon after resuming charge as the chief minister, Banerjee wrote to the PM over insufficient supply of vaccines, and shortage of essential drugs and medical oxygen. She also pointed out that the demand of medical oxygen in the state had doubled -- from 220MT to 400 MT per day. On Thursday, she shot off another letter to the PM, urging him to “advise the concerned ministry to release the due fund to the eligible farmers (under PM-Kisan scheme) and share the database of the over 2 million farmers”.Reiterating her demand for oxygen allocation, Banerjee said in her letter on Friday that the demand for medical oxygen in the state has further shot up to 470 MT in the last 24 hours and is expected to touch 550 MT in another week. Also Read | Bengal starts equipping rural hospitals as Covid-19 spreads to villages“However instead of allocating the same as per the requirement of West Bengal, the Centre has increased allocation of medical oxygen to other states, from the total production in West Bengal,” she alleged.She alleged that the Centre has increased the allocation to other states from 230 MT to 360 MT and this is being diverted from the 560 MT produced in the state even as the allocation for Bengal has been kept constant at 308 MT. “Considering the critical solution, I would request you to kindly have the allocation reviewed and instructions issued for an immediate allocation of at least 550 MT per day of medical oxygen preferably out of the total oxygen produced in the state,” the letter stated. A senior official said that the state has set up more than 12,500 beds in block and sub divisional level hospitals where patients can receive round-the-clock oxygen supply. The government is coming up with 55 oxygen plants, which are expected to start production by June, and oxygen plants have already been set up at two state-run hospitals.Liquid medical oxygen tanks are also being set up at six hospitals and industrial oxygen is being diverted to hospitals to prevent any shortfall, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allocate-more-oxygen-to-bengal-to-prevent-deaths-mamata-to-pm-101620383819128.html
07-05-2021||India||PM, Scott Morrison agree on importance of equitable access to Covid-19 vaccines||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday thanked his Australian counterpart Scott Morrison for the country's support to India's fight against coronavirus disease (Covid-19). "Spoke with my friend @ScottMorrisonMP to thank him for Australia’s solidarity and support for India’s fight against the pandemic. We agreed on the importance of ensuring affordable and equitable access to vaccines and medicines, and discussed possible initiatives in this regard," PM Modi tweeted.PM Modi sought Australia's support for the initiative taken at the World Trade Organisation by India and South Africa to seek a temporary waiver under Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) in this context, a statement read.Both PM Modi and Morrison took note of the progress made in the India-Australia Comprehensive Strategic Partnership since the Virtual Summit held on June 4 last year and discussed ways to further strengthen cooperation and foster people-to-people ties."The leaders also discussed regional issues and reiterated the importance of working together for a rules-based international order and a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific region," the statement read.PM Modi's statement comes amid Australia's decision to not extend the ban on citizens returning from Covid-hit India. Morrison had earlier this week banned all travel from India, fearing a large number of Covid-19 positive arrivals would overwhelm Australia's already exhausted quarantine facilities.The ban stranded an estimated 9,000 Australian citizens and threatened them with large fines and jail time if they tried to dodge the order and return on non-direct flights.Morrison said the measures would remain in place until May 15 as planned, but then repatriation flights could resume."The determination was designed to be a temporary measure and the medical advice... is that it will be safe to allow it to expire as planned on May 15," he added.India is currently witnessing a deadly Covid-19 second wave. India on Friday registered 4,14,188 new Covid-19 cases within the past 24 hours, marking the largest daily increase since the start of the outbreak, the Union health ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-scott-morrison-agree-on-importance-of-equitable-access-to-covid-19-vaccines-101620379502925.html
07-05-2021||India||Kuwait sends 215 MT of oxygen, ready to supply 1,400 MT in all, says envoy||Kuwait has shipped 215 tonnes of liquid oxygen on four ships that are expected to begin arriving in India from Saturday, and stands ready to provide up to 1,400 tonnes over the next three weeks to help address a severe shortage across the country. The Indian Navy has so far deployed nine warships to ferry liquid oxygen containers, concentrators and medical supplies from different countries, and three of these vessel are bringing in oxygen from Kuwait. “The three Indian Navy warships and a large commercial vessel are bringing in a total of 215 tonnes of medical liquid oxygen. They are set to begin arriving in ports in Mumbai and Gujarat from Saturday,” Kuwaiti ambassador Jasem Ibrahem Al Najem said. “But this will not be the only shipment. The sea bridge that has been established will continue and the Indian Navy ships will go back to be refilled. Kuwait will provide 1,400 tonnes of oxygen in three weeks,” he said. India has recorded more than 350,000 coronavirus infections a day over the past week, and the massive surge has stretched resources at healthcare facilities in many cities. The external affairs ministry has identified liquid oxygen and oxygen generation plants as the focus of efforts to source equipment and supplies from abroad. An Indian warship brought in about 40 tonnes of liquid oxygen from Bahrain this week and more supplies are expected from Qatar and Singapore, though the supplies from Kuwait are expected to be the largest in volume. Also Read | India, EU set to start negotiations on 3 agreements during May 8 virtual summitAl Najem explained that Kuwait has one of the largest companies producing medical oxygen in the region and its daily output is almost 200 tonnes a day. “We provide liquid oxygen to countries such as Iraq, Jordan and Saudia Arabia. When we saw the need for oxygen in a friendly country such as India, we decided to support India as part of collective efforts to fight the global pandemic,” he said. Besides the liquid oxygen, a Kuwaiti Air Force aircraft transported 40 tonnes of support, including 282 oxygen cylinders and 60 oxygen concentrators, to New Delhi on Tuesday. The commercial vessel, MV Capt Kattelmann, left Kuwait’s Al-Shuaiba port with 75 tonnes of liquid oxygen and 1,000 oxygen cylinders on Wednesday and is set to arrive in India on May 10. On the same day, INS Kolkata left with 40 tonnes of liquid oxygen, 200 oxygen cylinders, oxygen concentrators and other essential material and is expected to arrive in India on Saturday. Two more warships, INS Kochi and INS Tabar, departed from Kuwait’s Shuwaikh port with a total of 100 tonnes of liquid oxygen and 1,400 oxygen cylinders and are expected to arrive in Mumbai on May 11. “India was with us during the initial stages of the pandemic and deployed a military medical rapid response team in April last year, and it also supplied 200,000 doses of Covid-19 vaccine,” Al Najem said. “This is more than about the traditional friendly relations between the two countries. The two sides stand together during all problems and crises,” he said. Al Najem also said the Indian community in Kuwait, which numbers about a million, is safe. “This is the third largest Indian expatriate community in the region, after the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia, and includes not just workers but also their families,” he said. About one million people have been vaccinated so far in Kuwait, out of the total population of 3.5 million that includes 1.5 million Kuwaitis. Al Najem said the country is using the Pfizer and AstraZeneca vaccines and is looking at more sources for doses in view of the global vaccine supply shortages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kuwait-sends-215-mt-of-oxygen-ready-to-supply-1-400-mt-in-all-says-envoy-101620381779067.html
07-05-2021||India||'Fight with Corona, not with PM Modi': Harsh Vardhan's strong message to Hemant Soren on 'Mann ki Baat' jibe||As a war of words began over Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren's tweet where he accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of only doing his 'Mann ki Baat' during a telephone conversation, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Friday said the chief minister should concentrate on fighting against the pandemic and not with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "While making a statement on the Prime Minister of the country, he must not forget that the pandemic situation should be addressed by a joint effort of the Centre and the state government. Taking out the rage on PM Modi while trying to conceal your failure is condemnable," the health minister said in a strongly worded tweet.केंद्र सरकार ने कोरोना संकट काल में जहां ग़रीबों और ज़रूरतमंदों के लिए खज़ाने खोल दिए हैं, वहीं झारखंड सरकार ने, अपने खज़ाने का मुंह बंद कर रखा है।श्री @HemantSorenJMM जी चाहते हैं कि हर काम केंद्र सरकार करे। कोरोना से लड़िए, PM से नहीं !@PMOIndiaAccusing the state government of keeping its purse strings tight, the health minister said Hemant Soren wants the Centre to do everything while he will keep the state treasury shut. "Fight with coronavirus, not PM," the health minister said.Watch: Hemant Soren’s ‘Kaam ki Baat’ jibe at PM Modi; BJP leaders lash outThis is not the first time the Union health minister reacted to PM Modi's criticism regarding the management of the Covid-19 pandemic. Earlier too, when states accused the Centre of inequal vaccine distribution, the health minister turned the heat on the state governments and blamed the state administrations for the 'dismal' situation.Don’t get why all media folks are getting worked up about CM @HemantSorenJMM ji ’s tweet, all it conveyed is that time for polite talk over pandemic is over& expect PM to talk on decisive action wrt vaccines, medicines etc. What’s wrong with that? Tone down that outrage-o-meter.As other state chief ministers and political leaders got divided over Hemant Soren's tweet, Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy said it is not time to point fingers."I have great respect for you, but as a brother, I would urge you, no matter what ever our differences are, indulging in such level of politics would only weaken our own nation. In this war against Covid-19, these are the times not to point fingers but to come together and strengthen the hands of our Prime Minister to effectively combat the pandemic," Jagan tweeted.In this war against Covid-19, these are the times not to point fingers but to come together and strengthen the hands of our Prime Minister to effectively combat the pandemic. 2/2Shiv Sena leader Priyanka Chaturvedi said the outrage again Hemant Soren is misplaced. There is nothing wrong in pointing out that 'time for polite talk over pandemic' is over and PM Modi is expected to 'talk on decisive action regarding vaccines and medicines.आपके इस बचकाना एवं ग़ैर ज़िम्मेदाराना,निरंकुश ट्वीट की देश ही नहीं दुनिया में थू-थू हो रही है। झारखंड की संस्कृति में झूठ,फ़रेब की कोई जगह नहीं है,ईश्वर आपको सद्बुद्धि दें,संयमित रखें और ज़िम्मेदार बनाएँ।2/2@HemantSorenJMM @narendramodi @PMOIndia @blsanthosh @BJP4IndiaOn Thursday night, PM Modi spoke to Hemant Soren about the Covid-19 situation of the state. After the conversation, Soren took to Twitter and said that PM Modi only did his "Mann ki Baat" during the conversation."It would have been better had he listened to and spoken on important matters," the chief minister tweeted.Hitting out at Soren for disrespecting the dignity of the CM's post, Assam BJP leader Himanta Biswa Sarma said the tweet makes fun of the suffering of the state about which the PM is concerned and he called to enquire of the situation.Assam incumbent chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal termed Soren's tweet as 'unfortunate' and said Soren is only trying to politicise PM Modi's concern and work for people. "PM Modi ji's every effort and action are only for the people and the Nation," he tweeted. Jharkhand BJP leader Babulal Marani slammed Soren for his tweet and said Jharkhand is ashamed of its CM's behaviour on social media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fight-with-corona-not-pm-modi-harsh-vardhan-s-strong-message-to-hemant-soren-on-mann-ki-baat-jibe-101620381419663.html
07-05-2021||India||Covid-19: Harvard University student mobilises funds for India, Tharoor commends efforts||As the disastrous surge in the daily number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infections caught the healthcare infrastructure of the country underprepared, support has been pouring in from around the world amid a huge shortage of essential medical supplies in the country.Shyamli Badgaiyan, a student of Harvard Business School, is among those who quickly raised more than $160,000.Also read: Sonia Gandhi slams govt for failing to deliver essential services amid CovidBadgaiyan along with Priyank Lathwal, a PhD student at Carnegie Mellon University, mobilised South Asian student organisations across her University and from 20 other universities, including Stanford, Carnegie Mellon University, Georgetown, MIT, Northwestern University, Tufts, and the University of Pittsburgh.Congress MP Shashi Tharoor on Friday appreciated the work done by Badgaiyan, who he said had worked with his office in Delhi. Commending her efforts to help the country, he tweeted, "Proud of Shyamli Badgaiyan, who had worked with my MP office in Delhi. Idealism & commitment never wear out!"Proud of Shyamli Badgaiyan, who had worked with my MP office in Delhi. Idealism & commitment never wear out! #COVIDSecondWave https://t.co/w2Oni6SZCt"I had been watching Covid-19 cases surge and been feeling terribly anxious and helpless,” Badgaiyan, who hails from Delhi, said. “I found myself thinking of ways to help from afar — an instinct I would later learn many students across the country were also feeling," she added, reported The Harvard Gazette.Also read: TN CM announces ₹2,000 as Covid time relief, cut in Aavin milk priceThe student-led initiative is using a united platform to pool funds and pass them to organisations in India to augment the supply of oxygen, protective equipment, and other medical supplies. The initiative that was launched last week is working in collaboration with GiveIndia, an organisation that is partnering with NGOs authorised to supply equipment to hospitals and Covid care centres in the country. Funds collected by the group are disbursed by GiveIndia to their nonprofit partners for the supply of the resources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-harvard-university-student-mobilises-funds-for-india-tharoor-commends-efforts-101620371874792.html
07-05-2021||India||Fourth time lucky, Rangasamy to head his first coalition govt in Puducherry||Seventy-one year old AINRC founder N Rangasamy was on Friday sworn-in as Chief Minister of Puducherry for a record fourth time but will be heading his maiden coalition cabinet, with alliance party BJP slated to be inducted into the ministry.On Friday, Rangasamy alone was sworn in as the other Ministers belonging to the AINRC and BJP would be inducted in the next few days, a party source said.Known to be a simple, soft-spoken and accessible leader, Rangasamy is famous for driving around in a two- wheeler across the streets of Puducherry, even as a CM.A former Congress veteran, he floated his All India NR Congress in 2011 after being replaced as CM then by the AICC following complaints from V Narayanasamy, then Congress Lok Sabha MP representing the UT.Rangasamy started off his electoral politics on an unsuccessful note by losing his first Assembly poll from Thattanchavady in 1990 when he was defeated by his political arch rival V Pethaperumal of the Janata Dal.However, he was elected from the same segment the next year and was rewarded with the Agriculture portfolio in the cabinet.Again in 1996, he won on a Congress ticket.In 2001, when the Congress won again, he took over the reins of the UT and continued to helm Puducherry after leading the party to a successive win five years later as well.However, things took a different turn with Narayanasamy intensifying his criticism of Rangasamy on several counts and the AICC replaced him as CM with V Vaithilingam in August 2008.In 2011, Rangasamy floated his All India NR Congress, which joined hands with the J Jayalalithaa-led AIADMK and won the then polls.The AINRC came out successful with 15 members and had the support of one independent which together gave Rangasamy the minimum strength of 16 on its side and he formed the government under his stewardship.He ditched the AIADMK at the time of forming the government in 2011, prompting strong criticism by the late Jayalalithaa who described him as a 'traitor' later.The AINRC contested the 2016 poll on its own but failed to ensure a clinching performance, with the Congress- DMK combine with 17 members forming the government.Rangasamy became opposition leader in 2016. He kept a low profile for some time before the Congress government, led by Narayanasamy, fell in February 2021 after it was reduced to a minority in the wake of a spate of resignations by his party MLAs.Rangasamy is a graduate in Commerce and also in legal studies. He did not practise as he swung into active politics.Thattanchavady has been his pocketborough all along and did not disappoint him during the April 6 polls as well.Though he sought election simultaneously from Yanam, an enclave of the union territory in Andhra Pradesh, he was defeated by an Independent candidate there.PTI Cor SA SS PTI PTI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fourth-time-lucky-rangasamy-to-head-his-first-coalition-govt-in-puducherry-101620379163173.html
07-05-2021||India||Delhi CM to hold high-level meeting to review Covid-19 situation||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will hold a high-level meeting to review the Covid-19 situation in Delhi. Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, health minister Satyendar Jain and other officials will be present in the meeting expected to be held later in the day.Delhi is facing a severe covid-19 wave in which the daily cases have spiked to unprecedented levels, pushing the health care system to a breaking point. This has also led to the acute shortage of medical oxygen and other medical necessities.On May 6, the Delhi government set up a portal on its official website to streamline the distribution of oxygen to Covid-19 patients in home isolation, non-Covid hospitals, nursing homes and ambulances.The government said that the portal was created to streamline the entire system of distribution of the lump-sum allocation under the supervision of District Magistrates. It also aims to facilitate the public to access these cylinders with certainty and to curb the black market.A person can apply with a valid photo id, Aadhar card details, Covid positive report and other documents like CT scan report if available on the Delhi government website -- delhi.gov.in. The district magistrates will then identify dealers to distribute oxygen cylinders to the individuals.Meanwhile, earlier in the day, the Supreme Court pulled up the Centre after the Delhi government complained to the court it didn't receive 700 MT of oxygen even after the court's orders. The top court cautioned the Centre and asserted that it has to give 700 MT of oxygen to Delhi every day till this order is reviewed or modified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-cm-to-hold-high-level-meeting-to-review-covid-19-situation-101620377769476.html
07-05-2021||India||Allocation of Remdesivir done upto May 16 for 'adequate availability': Gowda||Amid the surge in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the country owing to the far more deadly second wave of the pandemic, the government on Friday allocated Remdesivir upto May 16 in order to ensure the adequate availability of the medicine, a drug used in the treatment of some cases of Covid-19. The decision was taken by Union minister of chemicals and fertilizers DV Sadananda Gowda and the allocation plan was made jointly by the department of pharmaceuticals and the ministry of health and family welfare.Read more: Co-Win introduces 4-digit security code mandatory for online vaccine booking“Considering the requirement of Remdesivir in every state and ensuring its adequate availability, allocation of Remdesivir has been made upto 16th May 2021. This will ensure smooth supply of Remdesivir across country so that no patient face difficulty in this pandemic time,” Gowda said in a tweet sharing the official notification with a list which stated 530,0000 vials of Remdesivir have been allocated to the states between April 21 and up to May 16.Considering the requirement of Remdesivir in every state and ensuring its adequate availability, allocation of #Remdesivir has been made upto 16th May 2021.This will ensure smooth supply of Remdesivir across country so that no patient face difficulty in this #pandemic time. pic.twitter.com/GfTqtBxJ7j“The allotment has been made for the States/UTs and State Governments and UTs have been asked to monitor proper distribution within the State/UT covering government and private hospitals as appropriate and in line with judicious use,” the statement read.With this, the government also asked state governments and governments in Union territories to place orders for purchase of the drug with marketing companies.“State governments / UTs have been advised to place adequate purchase orders with the marketing companies immediately, if they have not already done so, for the quantity that they want to purchase out of allocation for the State/ UT as per supply chain in close coordination with liaison officers of the companies. The coordination with private distribution channels in the state could also be made,” the statement added.This comes at a time when India reported 414,188 new Covid-19 cases and 3,915 deaths due to the virus on Friday, according to the Union health ministry dashboard at 8am. With this, the total tally in the country went up to 21,491,598 and the death toll was pushed to 234,083. Total recoveries in the country stood at 17,612,351 and the number of active cases in the country stood at 36,451,64.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allocation-of-remdesivir-done-upto-may-16-for-adequate-availability-gowda-101620377822790.html
07-05-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi writes to PM Modi, says national lockdown 'almost inevitable'||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the surge of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and said that a national lockdown had become “almost inevitable as the Covid tsunami continues to ravage the country unabated”."In such an unprecedented crisis, the people of India must be your foremost priority. I urge you to do everything in your power to stop the needless suffering that our people are going through," Gandhi added.He said that it is important to understand India's responsibility in a globalised and interconnected world. "India is home to one out of every six human beings on the planet. The pandemic has demonstrated that our size, genetic diversity and complexity make India fertile ground for the virus to rapidly mutate, transforming itself into a more dangerous form. The double and triple mutant strains that we are currently grappling with are only the beginning, I fear," he further said.Gandhi asserted that allowing the uncontrollable spread of the coronavirus would be devastating not only for India but also for the world.Slamming the central government over its Covid-19 vaccination strategy, Gandhi said, “Your government’s lack of a clear and coherent Covid and vaccination strategy, as well as its hubris in declaring premature victory as the virus was exponentially spreading, has placed India in a highly dangerous position. Today the disease is growing explosively. It is currently on the verge of overwhelming all of our systems. Government of India’s failures have made another devastating national lockdown almost inevitable.”Assuring PM Modi of Congress’ support, Gandhi said various stakeholders must be taken into confidence so that “all can work together to safeguard India since otherwise it could become a fertile ground for the virus to mutate and transform into a more contagious and dangerous form."Four points that Gandhi highlighted as urgent issues to be addressed without delay in the letter:The Congress leader said that the government must act with compassion and provide critical financial and food support to the most vulnerable people. "In addition, it must be ready with a transportation strategy for those who will require it."India on Friday logged 4,14,188 Covid-19 cases and 3,915 deaths according to the Union health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-writes-to-pm-modi-says-national-lockdown-almost-inevitable-101620371057622.html
07-05-2021||India||Maharashtra transfers ‘encounter specialist’ Daya Nayak to Gondia||The state government on Thursday evening issued orders transferring two police inspectors, including “encounter specialist” Daya Nayak, outside Mumbai. Nayak is credited with eliminating over 80 criminals in so-called police encounters.Nayak, who was posted with Juhu unit of the anti-terrorism squad (ATS), has been transferred to Gondia district, whereas another officer, police inspector Rajkumar Kothmire of the anti-extortion cell (AEC) of the Thane police, is transferred to Maoist-hit Gadchiroli district.The order stated that both the officers were transferred on administrative grounds. Daya Nayak was part of the ATS investigating team probing the Antilia bomb scare case and arrested two accused – cricket bookie Naresh Gor and former police constable Vinayak Shinde – for allegedly providing logistical support to controversial police officer Sachin Vaze in allegedly killing Thane trader Mansukh Hiran. Hiran was linked to the Scorpio which was found parked near the south Mumbai residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani with 20 gelatin sticks and a threatening note.Also Read | Air ambulance lands on belly in Mumbai as wheel falls off in NagpurNayak’s transfer was held back in 2019 over a threat to his life as he had killed so many criminals. Earlier, on April 4, four police inspectors serving in the Mumbai Police and crime branch for several years, police inspector Nandkumar Gopale, Sachin Kadam, Kedari Pawar and Sudhir Dalvi, were transferred out. Gopale was heading the Mumbai crime branch’s unit 9 during TRP scam investigated former assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze, then in-charge of crime intelligence unit, and Gopale and his team helped to arrest several accused allegedly involved in the TRP scam.Kadam was heading Anti-extortion cell (AEC) of the Mumbai crime branch which was part of the investigating team who helped to bring in underworld don Ravi Pujari and Ejaz Lakdawala. Pawar was heading the Property Cell and initially, he and his team were also working on the Antilia bomb scare case.Soon after Vaze’s arrest, 65 crime branch officials were transferred in local arms units and police stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-transfers-encounter-specialist-daya-nayak-to-gondia-101620376258616.html
07-05-2021||India||Sonia Gandhi slams govt for failing to deliver essential services amid Covid||Congress chief Sonia Gandhi on Friday criticised the government for failing to deliver essential services and supplies on adequate scale amid the second Covid-19 wave while calling it imperative for her party to enhance and streamline these efforts. “The AICC [All India Congress Committee]’s Covid control room is reaching out with a detailed blueprint. Similar Covid relief control rooms have been set up at the State level,” she said in her address to Congress members of Parliament.Gandhi called for making efforts to organise ambulances, temporary beds, oxygen concentrators and necessary medicines. “In our party, there are many resourceful persons. I urge them to come forward and render whatever help possible through our states’ Relief Control room or on their own.” She said Prime Minister Narendra Modi “arrogantly boasted” that he had defeated the pandemic and his party “obediently felicitated him for his so-called success”.Also Read | Central Vista project a criminal wastage, says Rahul GandhiGandhi said the system has not failed but the government did not channelise the resources constructively to strengthen India. She pointed out that despite ₹35,000 crore allocation for “free vaccine for all”, an inequitable vaccination policy would exclude Dalits, Adivasis, Other Backwards Classes, as well as the poor and the other marginalised groups. Gandhi said the government instead of helping people was using the state’s power to torment them for seeking help. She alleged it was cracking down on the citizen groups trying to help people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-gandhi-slams-govt-for-failing-to-deliver-essential-services-amid-covid-101620376078500.html
07-05-2021||India||21-point Covid-19 advisory on social media is fake: ICMR||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Thursday alerted about a fake list being circulated on social media under the fake name of the apex body. The list contains a few dos and don'ts points amid the Covoid-19 pandemic. Clarifying that no such advisory has been released by the body, ICMR tweeted that the list is fake. "This is circulating in different social media platforms. ICMR did not issue any such guideline or advisory. It is fake circulation," it wrote on social media as it shared the image.The fake list suggests, "Postpone foreign travel for two years, don't eat outside for a year, stay away from a person who has a cough. Don't go to a crowded place for at least a year." It also asked people to "don't bring shoes into home".This is circulating in different social media platform. ICMR did not issue any such guideline or advisory. It is #Fake circulation. #FactCheck #FakeNews pic.twitter.com/FeusTaOiWMIt also advised against wearing a belt, ring, wristwatch "when going out."The fake list claimed that the Covid-19 disaster "is not going to end soon" and asked people to follow the mentioned precautions for the next 6 to 12 months regardless of the lockdown.India is reeling under the second wave of Covid-19 and the number of infections has reached unprecedented levels leading the healthcare system to crumble under the weight of patients. Many hospitals in the national capital have run out of key things like hospitals beds, medical oxygen.On Friday, the country added 414,188 fresh cases of infection and 3,915 fatalities in a single-day spike. The overall caseload now stands at 21,491,598.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/21point-covid-19-advisory-on-social-media-is-fake-icmr-101620375107476.html
07-05-2021||India||Co-Win introduces 4-digit security code mandatory for online vaccine booking from May 8||Admitting data-entry error in marking many people who have booked vaccination slots as 'vaccinated', the Union health ministry on Friday said the Co-Win software through which registration and vaccination slot booking is taking place will have some additional security feature. Upon booking vaccination slots on cowin.gov.in website, people will receive a four-digit security code which will have to be produced at the vaccination centre. The code will also be mentioned on the digital certificate, the ministry said.The additional security feature has been introduced as many people received messages claiming that they have received one dose of the vaccine, while they did not actually turn up for the vaccination on the scheduled date. "This will ensure that, for such citizens who have booked an online appointment, the data entries regarding vaccination status of a citizen, are recorded correctly and only for those who book online appointment and avail the services at the centre where they have booked the appointment. This will also reduce the opportunities for impersonation and wrongful use of flexibilities provided in Co-WIN for facilitating vaccination coverage," the ministry said.Aarogya Setu fades into background as India deals with second Covid-19 waveThe security code, unknown to the vaccinator, will be printed on the appointment acknowledgement slip as well. Before administering the vaccine dose, the vaccinator will ask the beneficiary the 4-digit security code.The ministry has also advised citizens to carry a copy (digital or physical) of their appointment slip or the appointment confirmation SMS so that the security code can be furnished easily.In the ongoing third phase of vaccination where people between the age group of 18 to 44 years are getting vaccinated, slots can be booked online only.With the new security feature, here are the checklist for registration on Co-Win:> Co-Win is not a mobile app. Registration can be done through Co-Win website or through the Aarogya Setu app.> One can register on Co-Win through a mobile number, based on the one-time password.> During registration, one has to mention the identification number of the photo ID card that he or she will carry during vaccination.> Registration on Co-Win and booking slots for vaccination are different as booking can be done depending on the slots available in government and private hospitals.> One will receive the four-digit security code after successful completion of the booking of a vaccination slot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cowin-introduces-4-digit-security-code-mandatory-for-online-vaccine-booking-from-may-8-101620374554848.html
07-05-2021||India||TN CM announces ₹2,000 as Covid time relief, cut in Aavin milk price||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin on Friday announced a covid pandemic time relief of ₹2,000 for the people of the state, a cut in Aavin milk rate and free travel for women in state-run buses, all promises made by his DMK ahead of the April 6 Assembly elections.Issuing his first set of orders after taking over as CM, Stalin also announced bringing covid treatment in private hospitals under a government insurance scheme, to provide succour to such people, an official release here said.It recalled the party's promise of providing ₹4,000 for rice ration card holders to aid citizens affected due to the pandemic and help them with their livelihood."To implement that, the Chief Minister has signed the order to provide the first instalment of ₹2,000 in May itself at ₹4,153.69 crore, covering 2,07,67,000 ration card holders," it said.He also signed another order, reducing the price of milk supplied by state-run Aavin by ₹3 with effect from May 16.Women can travel free of cost in all ordinary fare city buses operated by State transport corporation from Saturday onwards and the government has allocated a sum of ₹1,200 crore as subsidy for this purpose, the release said about another poll promise.Further, he approved constituting an IAS officer- headed department to implement the "Chief Minister in Your Constituency" scheme, to fulfill another assurance of redressing people's issues within 100 days of taking over, on petitions received by him ahead of the polls as DMK chief.He had then promised to solve the issues within 100 days of taking over as chief minister of the state if his party was given the mandate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-cm-announces-rs-2-000-as-covid-time-relief-cut-in-aavin-milk-price-101620374284075.html
07-05-2021||India||Bengal starts equipping rural hospitals as Covid-19 spreads to villages||West Bengal is equipping block-level primary health centres and hospitals with isolation beds, medical oxygen and ambulances as Covid-19 cases have surged in rural areas of the state. Officials said patients with Covid-19 symptoms and severe respiratory illnesses have been pouring into health centres in rural Bengal.“...a large number of patients are coming with Covid-19 symptoms and severe acute respiratory illness. These cases need proper diagnosis and management to check the virus from spreading further,” said a state health department official.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has warned the situation could worsen over the next two weeks as she has allowed hospitals and nursing homes across the state to augment their bed capacity by 40%.“The [health centres] and rural hospitals have been directed to keep at least 5-10 isolation beds ready, arrange oxygen and basic medicines...at least one or two ambulances on standby,” said the official.District authorities have been directed to arrange for Rapid Antigen Tests in the peripheral health facilities to identify Covid patients.Also Read | Rahul Gandhi slams government’s ‘lack of clear Covid vaccination strategy’On October 22, when West Bengal reported the highest daily cases in the first surge -- 4157--Birbhum, Murshidabad, Hooghly and Nadia districts reported 82;110; 225 and 194 cases respectively. The districts reported 705; 593; 906 and 852 cases respectively on Thursday. This marked a rise in cases by five to eight times. Barring Nadia, the other three districts have over 1,000 active cases. The districts are among those which produce the maximum paddy in West Bengal and account for over 60% of the rural population.On Thursday, West Bengal reported 18,431 cases and 117 deaths.The government has also announced that it would deploy around 275,000 rural health care workers, who are often consulted by villagers for minor ailments in absence of qualified doctors, as the first line of defence against the second wave of Covid-19. The state health department is expected to issue dos and don’ts for their handling of Covid-19 patients.“We can use this workforce. We can name them Swasthya Suraksha Bondhu instead of calling them quacks,” said Banerjee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-stars-equipping-rural-hospitals-as-covid-19-spreads-to-villages-101620373978525.html
07-05-2021||India||Manipur extends curbs in Greater Imphal area till May 16||Manipur has extended restrictions imposed in areas under Imphal Municipal Corporation(IMC) and Greater Imphal till May 16. Only last week, on April 30, Greater Imphal was declared a containment zone for seven days to check the Covid-19 spread.Chief secretary in-charge MH Khan, who is also the chairman in-charge of state executive committee of the state disaster management authority, issued an order in this regard on Thursday night. As per the order,all shops in Thangal Bazaar and Paona Bazaar –the two main markets in Imphal – shall remain closed. Ima Keithels (women markets) and adjoining temporary markets in Imphal and other local markets at Khurai Lamlong, Andro Parking, Lambulane, Kongba, Pishum thong, Kwakeithel, Nagamapal, Singjamei Bazaar, Wahengbam Leikai will also remain closed, it added.One in every three wholesale shops in Imphal may open on rotation from 6am to 10am. If the shops or vendors are in congested rows, only alternate rows shall be allowed to open. Queue system should be adopted by all shops and vendors, it suggested.Deputy commissioners and district superintendents of police will prepare the roster of shops vendors, it stated. Activities allowed are movement of goods vehicles carrying oxygen/oxygen cylinders,LPG and oil tankers and vehicles of other essential services such as power supply,water supply,waste/garbage clearance,public distribution system(PDS),medical/Covid services and vehicles of personnel of departments/organisations. All healthcare facilities, including animal healthcare, hospitals, clinics, nursing homes and movement of healthcare workers,all pharmacies, including those selling veterinary medicines besides all persons going for Covid-19 vaccination,Covid testing and medical emergencies are to be permitted.But there will be complete ban on movement of all vehicles.The night curfew from 7pm to 5am across the state and closure of all historical and tourist sites will be continued.Imphal airport shall remain open and movement of staff and passengers would be permitted, it added. On Thursday, Manipur recorded,380 fresh cases,taking the state’s total tally to 33,733.Thirteen Covid-19 patients also died,taking the state’s death toll to 447.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-extends-curbs-in-greater-imphal-area-till-may-16-101620373258336.html
07-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: System hasn't failed, Modi govt has, says Sonia Gandhi on Covid-19 crisis and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.System hasn't failed, Modi government has: Sonia Gandhi on Covid-19 crisisAmid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic situation of the country, Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday said the system has not failed as India has many strengths and resources. Read moreIndia, EU set to start negotiations on 3 agreements during May 8 virtual summitIndia and the European Union (EU) are expected to launch negotiations on three agreements – on trade, investment protection and geographical indications – during their virtual summit on May 8 as part of efforts to drive economic recovery amid the Covid-19 crisis. Read moreSupreme Court refuses to stay Karnataka HC order on more oxygen to stateThe Supreme Court on Friday turned down the Central government’s plea to stay the Karnataka high court order directing it to immediately increase the supply of medical oxygen to the state from 962 metric tonnes (MT) per day to 1,200 MT per day in view of the spurt in the number of active Covid-19 cases. Read more'It helps to keep people in homes': Pat Cummins explains why continuing IPL 2021 was a 'positive' thing amid pandemicDespite the covid-19 crisis in India deepening in the past few weeks, the Indian Premier League 2021 continued in the country for the entire month of April, inciting a debate. Read moreMalaika Arora shares ways to improve the health of lungs in new video. Seen yet?Malaika Arora is a true fitness enthusiast. The actor has lately been sharing a lot of exercises that help with the lung capacity. Read moreAnushka Sharma-Virat Kohli share video message, start fundraiser for Covid-19 relief: 'It pains us to see India suffer'Actor Anushka Sharma and her cricketer husband Virat Kohli have shared a video on Instagram. The couple have started a fundraiser together, to raise money for Covid-19 relief in India. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-system-hasn-t-failed-modi-government-has-says-sonia-gandhi-on-covid-19-crisis-and-all-the-latest-news-101620370264257.html
07-05-2021||India||Dark chocolate, turmeric milk in Centre's list of food to build immunity amid Covid-19||As people recovering from Covid-19 should focus more on rebuilding muscle, immunity and energy levels, the Centre through its mygovindia Twitter handle has recommended a list of food items to build natural immunity amid Covid.Loss of taste and smell is one of the common symptoms of Covid infection, found in both phases of the pandemic. Since this leads to a loss of appetite and patients find it difficult to swallow, muscle loss may happen. "It is important to eat soft foods at small intervals and to add amchoor in the food," the guideline said.Are you looking for natural ways to boost your immunity?We’ve got you covered! Here’s few general measures which you can follow to boost your immunity organically amidst #COVID19. #StayHomeStaySafe#IndiaFightsCorona @MoHFW_INDIA @MIB_India @PIB_India pic.twitter.com/KfKk2pLyeLHere's what else a Covid patient should include in the diet:> 5 servings of coloured fruits and vegetables to get adequate vitamins and minerals.> Small amount of dark chocolate with at least 70 per cent cocoa to get rid of anxiety.> Turmeric milk once a day to boost immunity.'No need for RT-PCR tests if...': ICMR issues new testing guidelines for Covid-19> Eating soft foods at small intervals and adding amchoor in the food.> Whole grains like ragi, oats and amaranth are advised.> Good sources of protein such as chicken, fish, eggs, paneer, soy, nuts and seeds.> Healthy fats like walnuts, almonds, olive oil and mustard oil.Amid the surge of the second wave of the pandemic, as the country is witnessing the highest daily cases and record deaths in a day, the onset of fever, body ache are spreading panic among people. Several unscientific home remedies to fight Covid-19 are also doing the rounds on social media. The Centre has reiterated that 80 to 85 per cent of Covid infection will get cured at home, with proper nutrition, without any serious medical intervention. The Centre has also advised regular physical activity and breathing exercises as per tolerance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dark-chocolate-turmeric-milk-in-centre-s-list-of-food-to-build-immunity-amid-covid-101620371958169.html
07-05-2021||India||India, EU set to start negotiations on 3 agreements during May 8 virtual summit||India and the European Union (EU) are expected to launch negotiations on three agreements – on trade, investment protection and geographical indications – during their virtual summit on May 8 as part of efforts to drive economic recovery amid the Covid-19 crisis. The two sides will unveil a connectivity partnership based on a shared approach towards transparent connectivity initiatives that respect international standards and provide fair opportunities to Indian and European companies, senior EU officials told a briefing on Thursday. This will only be the EU’s second connectivity partnership after a similar arrangement with Japan. The heads of state or government of all 27 members of the EU are expected to gather in the Portuguese city of Porto for the virtual summit with Prime Minister Narendra Modi – only the second time such a gathering will be held following the EU’s meeting with US President Joe Biden in March. The trade negotiations are being seen as a resumption of talks with India that stalled in 2013 because of differences on issues such market access for European products and mobility for Indian professionals. “We expect the leaders to endorse the launch of negotiations on three agreements – on trade, investment protection and geographical indications and this is a major step,” said a senior EU official, adding the move would be helpful in boosting recovery from the economic fallout of the pandemic. Also Read | Support grows for India over patentsA second official said the talks are expected to lead to a breakthrough towards balanced, comprehensive and mutually beneficial agreements. “After almost eight years of suspension of free trade talks, we will agree to resume these and this opens up the way to a possible free trade agreement between us,” he said. The officials described the connectivity partnership as a key deliverable of the summit that will boost cooperation in rail, maritime and air transport, and also cover digital initiatives and infrastructure development. The two sides will also take steps aimed at shaping global standards for digital technologies and data management, and operationalise a joint task force on artificial intelligence (AI), the officials said. “We have a common vision on data protection, network security, privacy and AI, and will collaborate on setting global standards in these areas,” the second official said, adding that the two sides were pooling their super computing resources to boost modelling on the Covid crisis and climate change. The officials described the resumption of the human rights dialogue with India after a pause of eight years as a key development in view of the EU’s commitment to human rights and equal opportunities. “We fully respect India as a secular democracy. Human rights are very much an important part of the political dialogue between the EU and India...One important message that we underlined was the important role that civil society actors and journalists play in a vibrant democracy,” the first official said. He acknowledged that the farmers’ protest in India had figured in recent talks between the two sides. Other issues expected to figure in the summit are cooperation on maritime security, cyber-security and counter-terrorism, enhanced collaboration to ensure a free and open Indo-Pacific, the signing of a working arrangement between Europol and its Indian counterpart to coordinate in the fight against terror and organised crime, the situation in Afghanistan and Myanmar, and efforts to revive the Iran nuclear deal. The officials were circumspect on the issue of possible EU support for a waiver of patent protections on Covid-19 vaccines but said the bloc understands the reasons behind India’s decision to suspend vaccine exports following a massive surge in Coronavirus infections. The officials said EU is ready to assess how the US proposal to support the waiver of patent protections can help, but called on all vaccine producing countries without pressing domestic needs to allow exports and avoid measures that disrupt supply chains. The officials said the two sides are expected to agree on cooperation on resilient medical supply chains, distribution of vaccines and active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) and preparing for future pandemics and global health emergencies, including the strengthening of the WHO. EU President Charles Michel, who has proposed an international treaty on pandemics to help strengthen the WHO, is keen to work with India in this field, they said. The officials also said EU member states had so far provided equipment and supplies worth 100 million euros for India’s Covid-19 response and the bloc had announced emergency support of 2.2 million euros for the WHO to help with testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indiaeu-set-to-start-negotiations-on-3-agreements-during-may-8-virtual-summit-101620370738344.html
07-05-2021||India||System hasn't failed, Modi government has: Sonia Gandhi on Covid-19 crisis||Amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic situation of the country, Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday said the system has not failed as India has many strengths and resources. The Modi government has failed to constructively channelise those resources, Sonia Gandhi said at the virtual Congress Parliamentary Party meeting. On the results of the recently concluded elections in four states and one Union territory, the party president said the Congress Working Committee will soo analyse the election outcome.Referring to the letters written to PM Narendra Modi by Manmohan Singh, Rahul Gandhi, the party president said all these helpful initiative have fallen on deaf ears as the government has made no meaningful response and continues to behave as if it alone has the answers.It is not a "government versus us" battle but a battle between "Us versus corona", Sonia said adding that the Congress demands the meetings of the standing committees. "The situation brooks no delay. Tackling this crisis requires able, calm and visionary leadership. The nation is sinking under the weight of the Modi government’s indifference and incompetence. This is a time for us to steel ourselves and rededicate ourselves in the service of our people," Sonia Gandhi said.Lambasting the goverment for its "flawed" vaccine policy, Sonia said that despite allocating ₹35,000 crore in Budget 2021 for "free vaccines for all", the Modi government put the state governments under immense pressure of procuring the vaccines in the third phase. "The Modi government’s inequitable vaccination policy will exclude millions of Dalits, Adivasis, Other Backwards Classes, as well as the poor and the marginalized. It is utterly shocking to see the Modi government abdicate its moral obligation and its sworn duty towards the people," she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/system-hasn-t-failed-modi-government-has-sonia-gandhi-on-covid-19-crisis-101620370124008.html
07-05-2021||India||India holds up wireless approvals for China-made devices, delaying launches: Report||India has held up approvals for import of wifi modules from China for months, driving companies such as U.S. computer makers Dell and HP and China's Xiaomi, Oppo, Vivo and Lenovo to delay product launches in a key growth market, two industry sources said.Imports from China of finished electronic devices - like bluetooth speakers, wireless earphones, smartphones, smartwatches and laptops - containing wifi modules are being delayed, the sources said.The Communications Ministry's Wireless Planning and Coordination (WPC) Wing has withheld approval since at least November, according to the sources, who were familiar with lobbying efforts by firms seeking clearance.More than 80 such applications by U.S., Chinese and Korean firms have been pending with the WPC since then, one of the sources said. Even applications from some Indian firms, which bring in some finished products from China, are awaiting WPC approval, the sources added.Dell, HP, Xiaomi, Oppo, Vivo and Lenovo did not respond to requests for comment.The communications ministry did not respond to a request for comment either. And both sources said the government had still to respond to representations made by industry lobby groups and individual companies.India's hard stance on Chinese imports comes amid Prime Minister Narendra Modi's call for greater economic self-reliance.His nationalist policies have helped boost the growth of smartphone assembly in the South Asian nation, and the sources believe the government's intention is to persuade companies to locate more of their production of electronic devices in India."The government's idea is to push companies to manufacture these products in India," one of the sources said."But tech companies are caught in a difficult situation - making in India would mean big-ticket investments and a long wait for returns, on the other hand the government-imposed hurdle on imports means a potential loss of revenues."India previously allowed companies to self-declare wireless equipment, a move that made imports easier, but new rules in March 2019 mandated firms to seek government approval.While India's market and export potential have turned it into the world's second-biggest mobile maker, tech analysts and industry insiders say it does not yet have the size or scale for companies to invest big in making IT products and smart wearable devices.WARY OF CHINA TECHThe long delay in WPC approvals also underscores India's strategy to cut China's influence in its tech economy, especially after a border clash with Beijing last year though tensions have eased since.Modi's government this week omitted Chinese gearmaker Huawei from a list of participants in its 5G trials, though European and Korean rivals were permitted.And once 5G deployment begins in India, New Delhi will likely block mobile carriers from using Huawei's telecoms gear, Reuters previously reported.U.S. firms Apple, Cisco and Dell were last year caught up in India's border tensions with China, as Indian ports held up imports of their products from China.In another example, reported by Reuters late last year, India's tight control of quality clearances for electronic goods from China slowed the import of an Apple iPhone model.Now that firms have obtained safety clearances from India's quality control agency, getting WPC approval has become the main obstacle to importing electronic devices from China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-holds-up-wireless-approvals-for-china-made-devices-delaying-launches-report-101620369702466.html
07-05-2021||India||Covid-19: IAF airlifts oxygen containers from Singapore, Bangkok to Bengal||As India continues its battle against COVID-19, the Indian Air Force (IAF) on Thursday airlifted 3 cryogenic oxygen containers from Singapore and 4 cryogenic oxygen containers from Bangkok to Panagarh Air base in West Bengal.According to Indian Embassy in Thailand, the aircraft is also carrying 30 concentrators donated by the India-Thai Chamber of Commerce."5th consignment of cryo O2 tanks airlifted today from #Bangkok by Indian Air Force C-17 aircraft. The aircraft is also carrying 30 concentrators donated by India-Thai Chamber of Commerce. Thank you @ITCCBKK," India in Thailand wrote in a tweet.Also Read: After key role in Ladakh, C-17s leading IAF’s Covid relief workDomestically, IAF's C-17s airlifted 2 cryogenic oxygen containers from Hyderabad to Bhubaneswar and 4 from Chandigarh to Ranchi.Other C17s are bringing 3 cryogenic oxygen containers from Hindan to Ranchi, 6 from Lucknow, Bareilly and Agra to Ranchi and Jamnagar, 4 from Jodhpur to Jamnagar, 4 from Bhopal to Jamnagar and Ranchi, 2 from Hindan to Bhubaneswar, 2 from Vijayawada to Bhubaneswar and 4 from Nagpur to Bhubaneswar, according to a statement.In addition, IAF An-32 airlifted 3 ton oxygen plant load from Ahmedabad to Dimapur, 28 ventilators from Palam to Mumbai and 40 oxygen concentrators from Delhi to Hyderabad.Moreover, IAF C130s airlifted 16 ton load and 52 passengers from Legpui to Patna for setting up a field hospital there. Another C130 is bringing oxygen concentrators from Palam to Guwahati and Jorhat.An IAF IL 76 airlifted 155 ventilators from Delhi to Mumbai. "Another IL 76 is bringing 150 oxygen concentrators from Delhi to Thiruvananthapuram, and another one is transporting 180 oxygen cylinders each (total 360) from Chennai to Thiruvananthapuram and Yelahanka."India on Thursday reported 4,12,262 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, the highest single-day spike in COVID-19 cases since the pandemic began.With this, the cumulative count of COVID-19 cases in the country has gone up to 2,10,77,410, informed the Union Health Ministry on Thursday.As many as 3,980 patients succumbed to the infection during the last 24 hours, taking the total COVID-related death toll to 2,30,168.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-iaf-airlifts-oxygen-containers-from-singapore-bangkok-to-bengal-101620368991564.html
07-05-2021||India||Australia to lift ban on citizens returning from Covid-hit India next Saturday: PM Morrison||Australia will lift a ban on its citizens returning from Covid-hit India from next Saturday and the first repatriation flight will land in the city of Darwin the same day, Prime Minister Scott Morrison said on Friday.The Australian government, for the first time in history, recently imposed a temporary ban on its citizens from returning home, if they have spent time in India up to 14 days before flying back.The government threatened to prosecute them with a possibility of five years of jail term or a penalty of 66,000 Australian dollars (USD 50,899). The move triggered a backlash with several lawmakers, doctors, civil societies and businessmen criticising the government for "abandoning" Australians in India and threatening the travellers with a hefty penalty and a jail term.The government's order on the matter is set to expire on May 15.Following the National Security Committee on Friday, Morrison agreed it saw "no need to extend it beyond that date".Australia will charter three repatriation flights between May 15 and May 31. The first flight into Darwin will touch down on May 15. Direct commercial flights from India are still banned.Morrison said flights being organised to repatriate stranded Australians will be "focused on bringing those Australian citizens, residents and families who have been registered with our high commission and consular offices within India.""It will also be targeted (at) those 900 most vulnerable of the group," he said after the latest national Cabinet meeting"I have asked the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade (DFAT) to do a review of those registrations those who been registered in India to ensure they are current. And that will assist a proper prioritisation of placing people on those flights," Morrison said.''The charters will be undertaken by the Australian crews, and they will require rapid antigen testing prior to departure," he said.He said that three flights will land in Darwin by the end of this month while Queensland, New South Wales and Victoria were also open to taking in more flights from India which means there could be six flights potentially.Morrison, while addressing a media conference, said a three-week pause on flights from India has slowed the rate of Covid-19 infections in quarantine facilities.''We have already facilitated the return of around 20,000 Australians from India, and this has been a big task. And that task will commence again on May 15,” he said.''All of this is about sensibly preventing a third wave of Covid-19 here in Australia, and doing that responsibly, while at the same time doing everything we can to sustainably bring Australians home from what is currently the most significant hot spot for those travelling into Australia of anywhere in the world right now," Morrison said."The biosecurity order is doing its job. It is doing what we intended it to do. It will run for the term we intended for it to run, and then that will be replaced by arrangements made beyond that point to ensure we can prevent the third wave,'' he said.Media reports said that Morrison was due to speak to Prime Minister Narendra Modi later on Friday to see what further assistance Australia can give."I want to thank in particular, in Australia, our Australian community of people who are of Indian descent. The Indian community here in Australia. I thank them for their patience. I thank them for their understanding," Morrison said."...I know they will be welcoming the fact these repatriation flights will be returning once again but also believe we will be able to do that because of the actions we have taken on a sustainable basis," he added.Official figures say there are currently 9,000 Australians in India who want to return home.With a record 4,14,188 new coronavirus infections being reported in a day, India's total tally of Covid-19 cases climbed to 2,14,91,598, while the active cases crossed the 36-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday.Meanwhile, Australia's chief medical officer Paul Kelly stood firm on advice on India travel suspension."With the data, we had in terms of the increasing cases coming from India, where they have had over 2 million cases in the past week, with thousands of deaths, the contrast between their expense and our experience, and I joined the prime minister in my heart going out to people in India and those with loved ones in India," Kelly said."We had to take that into account to protect Australia using the data we had last week. And it's working." Kelly said.According to ABC news, many Australians have fled to Sri Lanka from India. The federal government is now working with Sri Lanka towards ensuring people who board flights to Australia have received a negative test.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/australia-to-lift-ban-on-citizens-returning-from-covid-hit-india-next-saturday-pm-morrison-101620369161069.html
07-05-2021||India||AAI, Goa Airport geared up for uninterrupted delivery of Covid-19 essentials||Airports Authority of India, Goa International Airport and its frontline corona warriors are geared up to combat Covid-19 by facilitating the seamless delivery of medical essentials, said the Ministry of Civil Aviation on Friday.During the first phase of the pandemic, Goa International Airport catered to eight LifeLine Udan flights intended to transport essential medical cargo to remote parts of the country amid the nationwide lockdown with a total inbound cargo of 2.15MT and outbound cargo of 3.96 MT.According to the Ministry of Civil Aviation, the Goa Airport also handled three lots of Covid-19 vaccine for the state of Goa and one lot for the neighbouring state Karnataka in the months of January and February 2021."The race is not stopped and Goa International Airport has further strengthened its mission to tackle the unprecedented situation created by covid-19 by the seamless supply of medical essentials i.e., Covid vaccines, Fabiflu medicines, covid-19 testing kits and other essentials," it said.In the second phase of the pandemic, the Goa Airport has facilitated the movement of Covid-19 vaccine to Goa as part of the inbound cargo and ensured the expeditious exit of consignments and handing over to the health authorities in the shortest time possible."Goa Airport so far airlifted 13 boxes of Covid vaccine (Covishield) received from Chennai on April 18, 2021, 9 Boxes of Covid vaccine (Covishield) received from Mumbai on April 30, 2021, and 122 Kg of Covid-19 testing kits received from Delhi on April 23, 2021," the ministry said.In addition to inbound Cargo, Goa Airport has also played a crucial role in facilitating the supply of Glenmark's Fabiflu medicines as part of outbound cargo to different parts of the country i.e., Ahmedabad, Bengaluru, Chennai, Delhi, Kolkata, Lucknow, Jaipur, Hyderabad, Indore, Nagpur, etc."A total of 31,955 Kg of Fabiflu medicines flew from Goa Airport as part of outbound Cargo in the month of April 2021," it added.Fabiflu is used for the treatment of mild to moderate Covid infected people.Further, Goa Airport is also planning to organise a covid vaccination camp for the employees of AAI and their dependent family members, Airlines, Agencies and other frontline staff working at the Airport in collaboration with and support from the Government of Goa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aai-goa-airport-geared-up-for-uninterrupted-delivery-of-medical-essentials-101620368822072.html
07-05-2021||India||Over 10 lakh Covid vaccine doses to be received by states, UTs in 3 days: Centre||The central government has promised to provide more than 10 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses to the states and union territories within the next three days.In an official release, the ministry of health stated that they would be providing a total of 10,25,000 vaccine jabs to the states and union territories within the next three days.Over 90 lakh Covid vaccine doses (90,30,670) are still available with the states and union territories to be administered. States with a negative balance are showing more consumption (including wastage) than vaccine supplied as they have not reconciled the vaccine they have supplied to armed forces, as per the ministry release.The Centre has provided more than 17.35 crore vaccine doses (17,35,07,770) to the states and union territories free of cost. Of this, the total consumption including wastages is 16,44,77,100 doses as per data available at 8 am on Friday, stated the release.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on April 19 announced a "liberalised" policy to include all above the age of 18 years to administer Covid vaccines in the third phase of the vaccination drive, which commenced on May 1.All the potential beneficiaries are required to either register themselves through CoWIN portal or via Aarogya Setu app.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-10-lakh-covid-vaccine-doses-to-be-received-by-states-uts-in-3-days-centre-101620368753189.html
07-05-2021||India||Supreme Court refuses to stay Karnataka HC order on more oxygen to state||The Supreme Court on Friday turned down the Central government’s plea to stay the Karnataka high court order directing it to immediately increase the supply of medical oxygen to the state from 962 metric tonnes (MT) per day to 1,200 MT per day in view of the spurt in the number of active Covid-19 cases.“We can’t keep people of Karnataka in the lurch,” said a bench of justices DY Chandrachud and MR Shah.The bench added that the high court order was a “careful, calibrated and judicious exercise of power” and required no intervention of the top court.On May 5, while hearing a public interest litigation, the high court had noted that the projected requirement of oxygen in Karnataka was 1,471 MT per day as on April 30, 2021, whereas the Centre had agreed to enhance it from 862 MT to only 962 MT per day. It also recorded a statement of Karnataka’s additional chief secretary that the requirement of oxygen in the state was likely to go up to 1,792 MT by May 5, 2021.The high court then directed the Karnataka government to submit a representation to the Union government while ordering that till this representation was considered, the Centre will supply 1200 MT of oxygen per day to the state. Challenging this order, the Centre said that the high court failed to consider the rationale behind allocation of certain amounts of oxygen to each state.Also Read | ‘Don’t force us to take coercive steps’: SC to Centre on oxygen supply to Delhi“...purely on the basis of purported shortage in the city of Bangalore, (high court) passed directions which, if fulfilled, will have a cascading effect and result in the total collapse of the system in its fight against the ongoing second wave of Covid-19 Coronavirus,” stated the petition.The plea stated that the high court order “would ultimately lead to mismanagement of resources and create a further chaotic environment in an already overburdened system”.The Centre further sought intervention of the Supreme Court, saying such matters required a comprehensive national approach. “Issues which transcend the boundaries of the particular state, especially issues wherein one or more states would be competing for the limited resources during the time of the pandemic, or issues which require any special treatment to a particular state at the expense of other states would necessarily have to be examined by the Supreme Court as it essentially requires a comprehensive national approach,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-refuses-to-stay-karnataka-hc-order-on-more-oxygen-to-state-101620367918079.html
07-05-2021||India||Central Vista project a criminal wastage, says Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday slammed the Centre over the Central Vista project, a redevelopment project to construct a new Parliament and a common central secretariat. Terming the project as "criminal wastage," Gandhi wrote, "Put people’s lives at the centre- not your blind arrogance to get a new house!" on Twitter.Over the last year, Gandhi and the Congress have been asking the government to shelve its plans on the Central Vista project and give priority to improving medical infrastructure as the country reels under the devastating impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. Cases have spiked to unprecedented levels in the country, while the healthcare system has been burdened to the breaking point.Earlier this week, the environment ministry’s expert appraisal committee (EAC) granted the necessary clearance for the Central Vista project. The project has been designated as an "essential service", hence getting exemption from the lockdown restrictions in the national capital which is severely hit by the pandemic.According to the CPWD’s submission to the ministry, the work on the new Parliament has been scheduled to be completed by November 2022, the vice-president’s enclave by May 2022, and the PM’s residence and the SPG building by December 2022.This has drawn strong objections by opposition parties and activists with many raising concerns regarding the well-being of construction workers.A plea has also been filed in the Delhi high court seeking immediate suspension of construction activity in Central Vista during the peak of the Covid-19 pandemic to protect the life of the workers and those involved in the project.Workers are being exposed to the infection on a "daily basis while working and that too without payment", petitioners claimed in their plea.The government will shell out around Rs.13,450 crore on the makeover plan which also saw the construction of a common Central Secretariat and revamping of the nearly 3.5-km-long stretch from the Rashtrapati Bhavan to the India Gate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-vista-project-a-criminal-wastage-says-rahul-gandhi-101620367312322.html
07-05-2021||India||'Don't force us to take coercive steps': SC to Centre on oxygen supply to Delhi||The Supreme Court on Friday pulled up the Centre after the Delhi government complained it didn't receive 700 MT of oxygen even after the court's orders. The top court cautioned the Centre and asserted that it has to give 700 MT of oxygen to Delhi every day till this order is reviewed or modified."Don't force us to take coercive steps. Tell your officers to comply with our order of 700 MT of oxygen every day," the Supreme Court told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta.While hearing the matter, the apex court yesterday told the central government that Delhi must get at least 700 tonnes of oxygen every day to meet the needs of Covid-19 patients. "If nothing is to be hidden, let it come before the nation how allocation and distribution is done transparently by the Centre," the Supreme Court added.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has sought 700 tonnes of oxygen a day for the national capital. He said that "his administration won't let anyone die of oxygen shortage if it got the earmarked 700 tonnes of oxygen supply every day from the Centre.""If we get an adequate supply of oxygen...700 tonnes, we will be able to set up 9,000-9,500 beds in Delhi. We will be able to create oxygen beds. I assure you that we will not let anyone die to a shortage of oxygen in Delhi," Kejriwal added.Earlier on Wednesday, the top court recommended that the Centre should look to Mumbai and take note from the Bombay Municipal Corporation (BMC) as it had done a good job in managing oxygen supplies. "The Bombay Municipal Corporation has done some remarkable work and not disrespecting Delhi but we can maybe see what was done by the civic body," Justice Chandrachud had said.Delhi on Thursday reported 19,133 fresh Covid-19 cases and 335 deaths in the last 24 hours, according to official data. The Covid-19 positivity rate has dropped below 25% for the first time since April 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-force-us-to-take-coercive-steps-sc-to-centre-on-oxygen-supply-to-delhi-101620366007971.html
07-05-2021||India||Aarogya Setu fades into background as India deals with second Covid-19 wave||Aarogya Setu, the government’s contact tracing app touted as the first line of defence against Covid-19 last year, has faded into the background as the second wave of the pandemic has overwhelmed the country. Nearly 100 million people began using the app within a month and a half of its launch last year. The app had over 150 million users by the end of September last year, the government told Parliament.An official said the application now has 170 million users and people now use it to register more for Covid-19 jabs as it is linked to the Co-WIN platform for vaccine registrations. “The application can only act if data is fed to it. Labs are testing, but not updating the mobile numbers on Aarogya Setu. So, the app has limited function in terms of helping identify emerging hotspots,” the official said on condition of anonymity. The official added that the application was still sending early warnings on prevention of transmission of the virus and was colour coding people on the basis of the perceived threat level.A person involved with the development of Aarogya Setu said the application had the potential to be leveraged to combat the second wave. “The technology is there but the government dropped the ball.”Also Watch | Switzerland, Netherlands send oxygen concentrators, other medical aid to IndiaIndependent researcher Srinivas Kodali said Aarogya Setu can only function as long as data is being provided to it. “Last year, ICMR [Indian Council of Medical Research] was passing on the data that help in the targeted intervention using the application,” said Kodali. “The government promoted it in a fashion that if one has the application, they will not get Covid. ...there are so many people who do not have smartphones... The important issue that should have been highlighted is testing.” Kodali said it is important to look at what happened with Aarogya Setu as the government begins promoting Co-WIN.Anivar Aravind, a software engineer who petitioned against the mandatory use of the application in the Karnataka high court, said contact tracing apps have proven to be ineffective. “There is no data on how effective these apps have been,” he said. “In Iceland, it did not help; in Singapore also, it is evaluated. In 2021, the question we need to ask is why do contact tracing apps still exist.”Aravind added that Aarogya Setu was an experiment that failed. “This was nothing but technology theatre. Aarogya Setu was a distraction and now we have Co-WIN. I presume that the app will likely make a reappearance as an immunity passport as we go along.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aarogya-setu-fades-into-background-as-india-deals-with-second-covid-19-wave-101620365578382.html
07-05-2021||India||Senior journalist Shesh Narain Singh passes away due to coronavirus||Senior journalist Shesh Narain Singh passed away due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Friday. He was undergoing treatment for the disease at a hospital in Noida.A columnist, political commentator and an expert on foreign policy, Shesh Narain Singh had a career spanning over two decades.Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed his condolences to the members of Shesh Narain Singh's family and said that he would be remembered for his significant contribution to the journalism world. "The demise of senior journalist Sesha Narayan Singh ji is very sad. He will always be known for his significant contribution to the journalism world. My condolences to his family in this hour of grief. Om Shanti!" PM Modi tweeted.The Press Club of India, too, condoled the senior journalist's death."The Press Club of India deeply mourns the passing of Shesh Narayan Singh, senior journalist, columnist, and political commentator. His death has left a vacuum in the media world that will not be filled. PCI mourns his untimely demise. Our heartfelt condolences to the family," it tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/senior-journalist-shesh-narain-singh-passes-away-due-to-coronavirus-101620364514220.html
07-05-2021||India||Covid-19 spreads to Assam tea gardens; nearly 300 cases reported||Covid-19 has found its way to Assam’s tea gardens with close to 300 positive cases detected in Dibrugarh and Biswanath districts in the past few days. “We found many cases in Zaloni tea estate. On the first day of testing, 39 positive cases were detected. On day 2, 90 reports came positive and nearly 50 more on the third day,” said Dr Nabajyoti Gogoi, joint director (in-charge), health services, Dibrugarh, said on Friday. He added that around 60 cases were found in two other tea gardens after a special testing drive. The tea gardens have been declared containment zones and as most cases are asymptomatic, they have been quarantined or in home isolation, depending on their condition. “A sero survey in several tea gardens in our district last year found that most people were not infected during the first wave,” said Dr Gogoi. “This year, when cases started rising in the state, we conducted tests in these places again and found positive cases. If the test drive hadn’t been conducted, most patients, who are asymptomatic, would have gone unnoticed and continued to spread the virus,” he added. Several cases among tea garden workers have been detected in Biswanath district as well and the administration has taken measures to ensure the virus doesn’t spread to other areas. Also Read | 414,188 new Covid cases recorded in India in biggest daily spike, 3,915 deaths“We have detected 46 cases in Nilpur tea garden in the past 4-5 days. The area has been declared a containment zone and infected persons isolated. Most of them are asymptomatic. Those showing severe symptoms have been transferred to hospitals,” said Biswanath deputy commissioner Pranab Kumar Sarmah. On Thursday, Assam recorded 4,936 new positive cases, which was the highest-ever single day figure for the state since the pandemic started last year. It also recorded 46 deaths on Thursday. At present, Assam has 31,829 active cases. The state’s daily positivity rate has been recorded between 8% and 10% for the past several days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-spreads-to-assam-tea-gardens-nearly-300-cases-reported-101620364737914.html
07-05-2021||India||Covid-19: Centre issues SoP to vaccinate beggars, prison inmates without identity cards||The Union health ministry has issued an SOP entrusting district task forces with the responsibility of registering those groups of people on Co-Win, who do not have any photo identity cards required for the registration on the vaccine software. Since all vaccination against Covid-19 will be documented on the software, one key facilitator with a valid identity card will be identified who will be the point person for the vaccination of these groups, the Centre said. Prison officials, old age home officials can serve as the key facilitators, the Centre said.Who will be vaccinated in this process?The Centre has identified several groups of people for vaccination without photo identity cards. Such groups of people include nomads (including sadhu/saints from various religions), prison inmates, inmates in mental health institutions, people in old age homes, beggars, people residing in rehabilitation centres and any other identified eligible persons not have any of the seven prescribed photo ID cards.Panel recommends releasing prisoners in view of ‘threatening’ situation in CapitalThe documents required for vaccinationAadhaar card, voter ID card, passport, driving licence, PAN card, NPR smart card, pension document are the accepted photo ID proof required for vaccination. The ministry has received several representations from various state governments regarding people who do not have any of these. "Covid-19 vaccination services may not be denied in absence of identity proofs," the ministry said.Vaccination of these people will take place only at government centres. The key facilitator will have to verify the identity of the beneficiaries.With the advent of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, prison authorities have raised the issue of the rapid spread of the infection among prison inmates. About 319 Tihar jail inmates have been infected with Covid-19 while five died of the infection till May 3, director-general (prisons), Sandeep Goel, has said.The Kerala government has decided to grant two-week parole to eligible prisoners to ensure social distancing in jails. In Uttar Pradesh's Meerut too, around 280 jail inmates will be released on bail or parole, news agency ANI reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-centre-issues-sop-to-vaccinate-beggars-prison-inmates-without-identity-cards-101620362138217.html
07-05-2021||India||Karnataka may extend lockdown-like curbs in state beyond May 12: CM||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Friday hinted that the lockdown-like restrictions imposed across the state is likely to be extended beyond May 12.“We are discussing this with officials... It has become inevitable to take stricter action,” Yediyurappa told reporters after visiting a temple in Bengaluru’s Gandhi Nagar on Friday morning. “What kind of action should be take will be decided in today and tomorrow’s meetings,” he said. The possibility of an extension comes even as several other states have announced lockdown and other restrictions to contain the surge of Covid- 19. On Thursday, Karnataka reported 49,058 new infections , taking the active caseload to 517,075. Bengaluru accounted for 23,706 new infections, taking its active case count to 332,732. As many as 328 people succumbed to the viral disease in Karnataka on Thursday, taking state’s toll to 17,212. Bengaluru reported 139 deaths on Thursday, taking its Covid toll to 7,145, according to the daily bulletin of the health department. Also Read | PM Modi holds meet with Cabinet to review vaccine drive, medicine availabilityCovid cases have continued to steadily rise since the beginning of April. The Yediyurappa-led government is scrambling to increase preparedness now, almost 7 months after a state-appointed technical advisory committee (TAC) warned the administration of an imminent second wave in the state. Karnataka’s health crisis has been exacerbated by the poor infrastructure which includes shortage of hospital beds, medicines, oxygen and even lack of space in crematoriums that are overflowing with the dead. K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s minister for health, family welfare and medical education on Thursday indicated that the restrictions have not worked as per expectation. The Opposition leaders from the Congress have also backed the idea of a lockdown to reduce the stress on the crumbling healthcare infrastructure and containing the surge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-may-extend-lockdown-like-curbs-in-state-beyond-may-12cm-101620361437115.html
07-05-2021||India||No lockdown, partial or total, in Telangana: CM Chandrashekar Rao||Telangana will not impose a lockdown -- partial or total -- to contain the spread of Coronavirus, as it will lead to the collapse of the financial system in the state.A decision to this effect was taken at a high-level official meeting chaired by chief minister K Chandrashekar Rao (KCR) at his camp office late on Thursday. It was the first official meeting held by KCR since April 19, when he went into quarantine at his Siddipet farmhouse after testing positive for Covid-19.According to a late-night official release from the chief minister’s office, KCR told the officials there was no question of imposing a lockdown in the state. He also pointed out that Covid numbers had not dropped in states under lockdown either.He said there were over 250,000-300,000 workers from other states working here, and the state could not afford to see them leave, and not return, as had happened during last year’s lockdown.Also Read | PM Modi holds meet with Cabinet to review vaccine drive, medicine availability“Moreover, there is bumper yield of paddy in the state and procurement is on at 6,144 centres in the state. There are hundreds of thousands of people involved in the process. What will happen to the workers who came from other states and are working in the rice mills if lockdown is imposed? The entire paddy purchase process will come to a standstill,” he said.A lockdown could lead to a panic situation, he said. “Hence, we are not ready for the lockdown. But, we will identify the areas with a greater number of cases and declare them as micro-level containment zones,” he said.The chief minister also spoke to Prime Minister Narendra Modi over phone about the supply of the required vaccines, oxygen and Remdesivir injections at the earliest. He brought to the PM’s notice that the oxygen supplies allocated to the state from Sriperumbudur in Tamil Nadu and Bellary in Karnataka had not been supplied so far.“Since Hyderabad is a medical hub, people from the bordering states also depend on Hyderabad for medical treatment,” he said.At present, the state has 440 MT of oxygen per day and it should be increased 500 MT per day. Likewise, only 4,900 vials of Remdesivir are available and against the requirement of 25,000. He said the Centre has so far given only 5 million doses of vaccine. He requested the Prime Minister to ensure the supply of 200,000-250,000 doses of vaccine per day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-lockdown-partial-or-total-in-telangana-says-cm-101620360476949.html
07-05-2021||India||With rise in Covid-19 cases, black fungus cases also spike: All you need to know||Doctors at Delhi hospitals are reporting a rise in cases of black fungus, a rare fungal infection, also known as Mucormycisis, in patients of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Last year as well, doctors had flagged several cases of the Covid-19-induced infection after at least 10 people were found to be infected within 15 days.A senior ENT surgeon in Delhi's Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, Manish Munjal said the hospital has seen six cases of mucormycosis in the last six days. "We are seeing a rise again in this dangerous fungal infection triggered by Covid-19. In the last two days, we have admitted six cases of mucormycosis. Last year, this deadly infection caused high mortality with many patients suffering from the loss of eyesight and the removal of the nose and the jaw bone," news agency PTI reported.The doctor also said that the infection is commonly being seen in patients who are at the recovery stage but have comorbidities such as diabetes, kidney or heart failure or cancer.The use of steroids in the treatment of Covid-19 patients could be one reason for the fungal infection, according to doctors.How serious is 'Black Fungus' or Mucormycisis?It is a serious but rare fungal infection and is triggered by the viral Covid-19. In many cases, the infection has been a cause of serious complications and death of a patient in transplants, ICUs. It is a “serious but rare infection caused by a group of molds called mucormycetes.” According to the advisory issued last year in India, Mucormycisis has an overall mortality rate of 50 per cent.Covid patients with weak immunity are more prone to this deadly infection, said Munjal.The infection most commonly affects the sinuses or lungs after inhaling fungal spores from the air, or the skin after the fungus enters through a cut, burn or other types of skin injury. According to the advisory, it can occur in any part of the body.It cannot spread between people or between people and animals.SymptomsSymptoms of the disease are face numbness, nose obstructions on one side, swelling in the eyes, or pain. It can also be accompanied by cough, fever, headache.The infection may initially occur at the site of skin trauma, but it can quickly spread to another area. Doctors suggest to remain cautious of symptoms such as blackened skin tissue, blisters, redness, swelling.Prevention"Early clinical suspicion on symptoms such as nose obstruction, swelling in the eyes or cheeks and black crusts in the nose should immediately prompt a biopsy and start of antifungal therapy as early as possible," said Munjal.People should also avoid direct contact with a lot of dust, wear shoes, long pants and gloves while handling soil or moss, and clean skin injuries well with soap and water.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-rise-in-covid-19-cases-black-fungus-cases-also-spike-all-you-need-to-know-101620359495974.html
07-05-2021||India||414,188 new Covid cases recorded in India in biggest daily spike, 3,915 deaths||India reported 414,188 fresh infections of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 3,915 deaths due to the virus on Friday, according to the Union health ministry dashboard at 8am. With this, the country's cumulative infections went up to 21,491,598 and the toll was pushed to 234,083.Meanwhile, 17,612,351 people have recovered from the disease till date and the country has 36,451,64 active cases. This means that the Covid-19 recovery rate has dropped to 81.95 per cent and the active cases comprise 16.96 per cent of the total infections, according to the health ministry.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAs many as 16,49,73,058 people have been vaccinated against the virus, according to the health ministry, with 23,70,298 of them being inoculated in the last 24 hours.The huge spike in deaths and cases comes amid various states including Kerala, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan imposing complete lockdowns and other states tightening restrictions in order to curb the spread of the virus.Kerala, which reported 42,464 new infections on Thursday, imposed an eight-day lockdown from Saturday. “The entire state of Kerala will be under lockdown from 6am on 8 May to 16 May. This is in the background of a strong 2nd wave of #COVID19,” chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan tweeted.Also Read: States step up curbs as Covid-19 tightens gripIn Madhya Pradesh, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan told people to “close down everything” till May 15. The state had reported 12,421 fresh cases and 86 fatalities on Thursday.The Rajasthan government has imposed a lockdown in the state from May 10 to May 24.The highly virulent virus has infected more than 156 million and killed over 3 million people around the world, according to the real-time statistics provider website Worldometers. India is leading the world's daily infection count with over 4 lakh new cases reported for two days in a row. On Thursday, 412,262 fresh Covid-19 cases had pushed India's infection tally to over 21 million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3915-covid-19-deaths-recorded-in-india-in-24-hours-daily-cases-at-414188-101620358138480.html
07-05-2021||India||Remdesivir to be available at govt's price, says Gadkari as Centre ramps up production||The Centre has decided to increase production of anti-viral drug Remdesivir and it will be provided to people at government's price, said Union Minister Nitin Gadkari on Thursday.This comes after several cases of blackmarketing of Remdesivir came to light amid the Covid-19."There was a shortage of Remdesivir injection. Because of this, incidents of black marketing took place, several people lost their lives as they have not received Remdesivir, so we decided to increase its production," Gadkari said."But we tried (and to got manufacturing rights), Remdesivir will be provided to people at government's price. Now, I think there will be no black marketing or no person will die due to lack of it, there is no reservation, can be provided to other states when there will be surplus," he added.Gadkari on Thursday visited the Genetic Life Sciences (pharmacy) in Wardha to oversee the production of Remdesivir injections.There are currently 35,66,398 active cases in the country, as per Union Health Ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/remdesivir-to-be-available-at-govt-s-price-says-gadkari-as-centre-ramps-up-production-101620358036428.html
07-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: States step up curbs as Covid-19 tightens grip||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.States step up curbs as Covid-19 tightens gripKerala, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan imposed complete lockdowns on Thursday, joining a number of other states that have curbed movement of people and banned gatherings to arrest the second wave of coronavirus infections. Read more.Covid-19 hits new highs: After Mount Everest, virus spreads to other peaksThe coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has not spared even the world's highest peaks. Along with the Norwegian climber it infected on Mount Everest in late April, the virus has struck climbers on the world's seventh-highest peak -- Dhaulagiri -- 345 kilometers (214 miles) west of Everest. Read more.Historic victory in Kerala will certainly reinvigorate Left: Pinarayi VijayanDespite facing several odds, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan led the CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front to a sterling victory in Kerala, rewriting the four-decade-old electoral trend of the state changing governments after every five years. Read more.Alia Bhatt welcomes summer in beautiful floral print midi dress worth Rs4.5kIt is time to incorporate light hues and floral prints in your wardrobe to welcome the summer season and Alia Bhatt is showing you how to do it rightly. The actor whose style consists of everything from beautiful flowy dresses to chic athleisure looks, is a fashionista in the truest sense. A throwback picture of the actor has gone viral on the internet and well, rightly so. Read more.‘England guys were panicking, it was chaos’: Morris reveals scenes at RR Team hotel during IPL 2021 suspensionRajasthan Royals all-rounder Chris Morris has returned home safely following the postponement of the Indian Premier League (IPL) 2021 on Tuesday. It was a big decision taken by the BCCI and the IPL Governing Council after multiple positive cases were reported inside the bio-bubble. Read more.Actor Siddharth says 'Hindi speaking junta' is calling him 'South ka Swara Bhasker', here's how she reactedActor Siddharth, famous for his role in films such as Rang De Basanti and Bommarillu, has tweeted about the name that a few Twitter users have coined for him. He says that he is being called 'South ka Swara Bhasker'. Read more.‘CT-Scans have much less radiation…’: Top doctors explain relevance in CovidTop Doctors Dr MS Kanwar (Apollo Hospital) and Dr Amit Thadani (Niramaya Hospital) explain the merits of CT-Scans for Covid-19 positive patients in this latest edition of InFocus.. Earlier on Tuesday, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had issued a new Covid-19 testing advisory that recommends using more rapid antigen tests. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-states-step-up-curbs-as-covid-19-tightens-grip-101620357374918.html
07-05-2021||India||Maharashtra’s Covid death toll on rise, daily average at 783||With 853 deaths on Thursday, Maharashtra recorded a total of 4,702 deaths in the first six days of May, bringing the average number of deaths to 783 per day. The number is almost three times than that of last month’s. Between April 1 and April 6, the state saw 1,402 deaths, which averaged 233 deaths per day. From March 1 to 6, 286 deaths were recorded, which averaged 47 deaths per day.The total number of deaths in the state since the outbreak of the pandemic has touched 73,515. On Wednesday, the state recorded 920 deaths which was the second-highest one day toll in the state. The highest toll was 985 on April 28 last month.On Thursday, the state recorded 62,194 new Covid-19 cases, and 277,086 citizens were tested for the virus.Also Read | Moderna’s booster shots effective against variantsThere are currently 639,075 active cases across the state of which Pune tops with 115,182 cases followed by Nagpur with 61,178 active cases. In Covid fatalities, Mumbai leads with 13,580 deaths followed by Pune with 9,942.Dr Tatyarao Lahane, director, Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER), said, “We saw an increase in deaths due to the second wave which is more lethal than the first one. The current deaths are of those who have been affected mostly two weeks ago. Due to the lockdown, we will see this number stabilise and even come down,” said Lahane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtras-covid-death-toll-on-rise-daily-average-at-783-101620357476924.html
07-05-2021||India||Rain, thunderstorms likely over western Himalayas, adjoining plains for 4-5 days||Widespread rain and thunderstorms are likely over the western Himalayan region and parts of northwest India for 4-5 days, according to India Meteorological Department.Due to Western Disturbances, scattered to fairly widespread rainfall or thundershower is very likely over the western Himalayan region and isolated to scattered rainfall or thunderstorm is likely over plains of northwest India during the next 4-5 days. Hailstorms are also likely over the region during the next 24 hours. Dust storm is likely over Rajasthan on May 6 and 7. An east-west trough (area of low pressure) is running from eastern parts of central India to northeast India across east India in lower levels. This east-west trough is very likely to persist during the next 4-5 days. Also Read | States step up curbs as Covid-19 tightens gripUnder their influence, widespread rainfall or thunderstorm activity is very likely over northeastern states, West Bengal and Sikkim; and isolated to scattered rain or thundershower is likely over the remaining parts of east India during the next 4-5 days. Heavy rainfall is also likely over northeast India and sub Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim during May 6 to 10.Under the influence of a cyclonic circulation over north interior Karnataka and a north-south trough over south Peninsula at lower levels, light or moderate scattered to fairly widespread rain or thunderstorm is very likely over Kerala, Mahe, Lakshadweep and Karnataka; and isolated rain or thundershower likely over the remaining parts of south Peninsular India during the next 5 days. Isolated heavy rainfall is also likely over Kerala & Mahe and coastal and south interior Karnataka during the next 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-thunderstorms-likely-over-western-himalayas-adjoining-plains-for-4-5-days-101620356276859.html
07-05-2021||India||Six US planes carrying key Covid-19 supplies reached India in past 6 days||The US has so far sent six planes carrying emergency supplies to India, which is battling one of its worst public health crises.The emergency supplies include 20,000 courses of remdesivir (125,000 vials) to help treat critically ill patients, nearly 1,500 oxygen cylinders, which can be repeatedly refilled at local supply centres, and one million rapid diagnostic tests to quickly identify Covid-19 cases.The six planes, which have landed in just six days, also carried nearly 550 mobile oxygen concentrators that obtain oxygen from ambient air. These units have a lifespan of more than five years and can serve multiple patients at once, depending on their oxygen needs.The US has also sent nearly 2.5 million N95 masks to protect healthcare professionals and other frontline workers.According to the USAID, a large-scale deployable Oxygen Concentration System that can provide oxygen to treat 20 or more patients at a time and 210 pulse oximeters to measure oxygen levels in a patient’s blood to determine whether a higher level of care is needed has also been sent to India.The US government assistance to combat the current crisis is about USD100 million. The United States is continuing to work closely with Indian officials and health experts to identify and respond to emerging trends in this ongoing crisis, the USAID said.The six shipments were made possible by a USAID-led whole-of-government effort, which included the Department of Defense, Department of State, Department of Health and Human Services, Travis Air Force Base, in partnership with the state of California, National Airlines, and United Airlines, it added.Last week, the USAID immediately allocated funding to purchase locally an additional 1,000 mobile oxygen concentrators.These life-saving units will be used in hundreds of primary health care facilities to address India’s critical oxygen shortage.The USAID said it is also supporting the Government of India’s efforts to stand up 150 Pressure Swing Adsorption oxygen generating plants, allowing 150 healthcare facilities to generate their own oxygen for years to come."The official US response over the last few days to India’s horrific Covid crisis underscores the depth and breadth of Washington’s unwavering commitment to India. Both the Biden administration and the US Congress have spared no effort toward this end in a testament to the strength and character of the bilateral relationship,” Ronak D. Desai, an expert on US-India relations at Harvard University and an international investigations attorney at Paul Hastings LLP, told PTI.Observing that Congressional efforts to assist India in its darkest hour have proven pervasive, bipartisan and bicameral, Desai said the speed at which members in both the House and Senate have mobilised to reduce India’s suffering serves as a potent reminder of the enduring goodwill India continues to enjoy in the corridors of the US Congress."Profound credit is due to Representatives Raja Krishnamoorthi, Ro Khanna, Pramilia Jayapal, and Dr Ami Bera for their steadfast leadership in helping mobilize the Congressional response to India’s Covid crisis and bringing national and international attention to the grave situation in India, why it matters, and why all American should care,” he said.Less than five years ago, such community representation in Congress would have been hard to predict. Less than five years later, it is clear why such representation is so crucially important, he said in response to a question.Noting that the scope and substance of Washington’s assistance to India over the past several days demonstrates the sincerity and reliability of the US, Desai said the Biden administration and its Congressional partners have proven that they treat their partnership and engagement with India in a non-transactional manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-us-planes-carrying-key-covid-19-supplies-reached-india-in-past-6-days-101620348738748.html
07-05-2021||India||'Covid-19 second wave in India a tragedy,' says US' top surgeon Vivek Murthy||The second wave of Covid-19 in India is a tragedy, US Surgeon General Dr Vivek Murthy has said, underlining the need for countries to help each other during the crisis."If Covid-19 has taught us anything, it's that we need each other to get through this pandemic. As a world, we need each other in terms of countries to step up to help make sure that the world has an adequate supply of vaccine, to ensure people have treatments available, supply of PPE because the threat of Covid in any part of the world is ultimately a threat to every country,” Indian-American Murthy told a news channel in an interview.To a question on the current Covid crisis in India and if the US might face a similar situation, Murthy hoped that it never happens."But it is always a possibility and that we have to be mindful of. And I'm cautiously optimistic that we will do well in this country, especially if we keep up our efforts at the vaccination campaign,” he said on Thursday."What's happening in India is a tragedy. And India has two challenges or has many challenges, but in terms of their variants, it has to B117 variant, which is the predominant one circulating here, which we know is at least 50 per cent or more contagious than the variant we were dealing with last year in the US,” Murthy said.The 617 variant of the deadly virus may or may not be more transmissible, he said, adding that doctors are still trying to understand it."It's just what they do. But they can't mutate, if they're not spreading, if they're not replicating within people. That's why we got to work hard. Just remember, this is not an effort that one person can take care of on their own or one country on its own," said the Indian-American surgeon general.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-second-wave-in-india-a-tragedy-says-us-top-surgeon-vivek-murthy-101620345813827.html
07-05-2021||India||Centre moves SC against K’taka HC order to step up daily oxygen quota for state||The Centre on Thursday moved Supreme Court against a Karnataka high court order, directing it to immediately increase the supply of medical oxygen to the state from 962 metric tonnes (MT) per day to 1,200 MT per day in view of the spurt in the number of active Covid-19 cases.According to the petition, such a direction by the high court will “have a cascading effect and result in the total collapse of the system in its fight against the ongoing second wave of Covid-19 Coronavirus.”Also read | What is the plan on vaccinating children, top court asks CentreA bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and MR Shah will hear the Union government’s appeal on Friday along with a plea to stay the operation of the high court order issued on May 5.“We have filed an appeal against the order passed a day ago. We are seeking a stay on the interim order on allocation,” Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said. Expressing shock over the Centre’s move, state Congress chief D K Shivakumar tweeted: “Will CM @BSYBJP & BJP MPs remain mute spectators when people are dying of Oxygen shortage?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-moves-sc-against-k-taka-hc-order-to-step-up-daily-oxygen-quota-for-state-101620342068230.html
07-05-2021||India||PM Modi holds meet with cabinet to review vaccine drive, medicine availability||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday held a meeting with his top Cabinet colleagues to review the progress of ongoing Covid-19 vaccination, availability of drugs such as Remdesivir, and to discuss the scaling up of vaccine production.“Citizens should be facilitated for vaccination despite lockdowns and healthcare workers involved in vaccination must not be diverted for other duties,” Modi directed officials at the meeting, according to an official statement.Also read | States step up curbs as Covid-19 tightens gripModi was also informed about the vaccine wastage.“As many as 17.7 crore [177 million] vaccines have been supplied to the states in the country and almost 31% of eligible population over the age of 45 has been given at least one dose of the COVID vaccine,” the statement said.Modi called for ensuring quick and holistic containment measures to prevent the further spread of the virus. He was told about 12 states that have over 100,000 active cases. Modi said the states should be given help and guidance. He added the states should ensure that the speed of the vaccination should not decrease.Union ministers Rajnath Singh, Amit Shah, Nirmala Sitharaman, Harsh Vardhan, Piyush Goyal, Mansukh Mandaviya attended the meeting along with top officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-holds-meet-with-cabinet-to-review-vaccine-drive-medicine-availability-101620341784407.html
07-05-2021||India||20 heritage jamun trees may be uprooted in Central Vista revamp||Several heritage trees, including 20 jamun trees, are likely to be uprooted as part of the Central Vista Avenue redevelopment plan stretching from Rashtrapati Bhawan to India Gate and will be transplanted elsewhere, officials in the know said on Thursday.Citizens and activists have been sharing pictures on social media of the dug-up Rajpath stretch lamenting the loss of the heritage jamun trees.“We have started work after requisite approvals. No tree to be cut…affected trees are to be transported elsewhere,” said a Central Public Works Department (CPWD) spokesperson.A senior official of the environment and forest department of Delhi said permission has been given to CPWD to transplant a total of 400 trees for the new Parliament project. These include some jamun and neem trees on Raisina Road and Red Cross Road that are nearly 100 years old.“There are some 20-22 old jamun trees on Raisina Road that are said to have been planted in the 1920s and were part of Edwin Lutyens’ original design of Lutyens’ Delhi. These trees are nearly 100 years old and might not survive transplantation,” said the environment department official cited above.Also read | Monsoon set to keep June 1 onset date with KeralaActivists said the environmental impact of redevelopment work on Rajpath hasn’t been assessed. The environment clearance for the new Parliament building was issued in June 2020 while that for a common central secretariat and Central Conference Centre along with the Prime Minister’s Residence, the SPG Building and the Vice President’s Enclave has been recommended by the environment ministry on April 13. As per the minutes of the expert appraisal committee (EAC) meeting held on April 13, 3,230 trees are to be transplanted from the site while 1,412 will be retained.“The central vista project has been broken into different components including the new parliament, central vista avenue and a consolidated proposal including the common central secretariat buildings, the Prime Minister’s residence and the Vice President’s estate. The environment clearance for the new parliament was issued in June 2020 and the approval for the consolidated proposal has been recommended in April 2021. The work on the central vista avenue presently underway did not go through an independent environment impact assessment, possibly because it did not attract the provisions of the EIA notification as it was separated from the other components and implemented as a stand-alone project,” said Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher, Centre for Policy Research.The jamun trees near Rajpath have a special significance to birders and nature lovers in the city. Twice a year there is a murmuration of Rosy Starlings over these jamun trees, and above India Gate.“Twice a year we see a murmuration of Rosy Starlings over these jamun trees before they roost for the night. We see hundreds of them dance in the sky forming different shapes over India Gate. These trees are also the roosting site for parakeets in the city. During daybreak they are seen flying off to other green spaces such as IIT or Green Park and in the evening, you can see them coming back to India Gate,” said Nikhil Devasar, founder, Delhi Bird.“…the starlings set off for their communal roost in one of the most staggering natural spectacles of all. Flocks arrive from all directions, gathering in the skies above their roost sites. As the numbers reach into the tens and hundreds of thousands, the murmurations take on incredible shapes in the sky, contracting and expanding as one flock merges into another, and taking on a life of their own...” says the UK-based The Wildlife Trusts, describing starling murmurations.Delhi forest department officials said they have no information on cutting or transplantation of trees for the Central Vista project.While the initial tree cutting and transplantation permission requests for the Central Vista project were tabled before the south division of the Delhi forest department, on April 24 the jurisdiction was redrawn and the project site was handed over to the west division.“Since the official handover happened, no fresh permission request for the Central Vista project has come to the west division,” a senior forest department official said.Experts pointed out that the transplantation of these heritage trees was as good as cutting the trees because most of them were unlikely to survive the “shock”.CR Babu, professor emeritus at the Centre for Environmental Management of Degraded Ecosystem, Delhi University, said while it is easier for young and shallow-rooted species to survive transplantation, for trees with deep tap root such as the jamun the survival chances are low. “A jamun tree that is less than 20 years of age can survive and regrow. But when their age is above 50 years their roots tend to have penetrated too deep into the soil. This makes it difficult to dig out the roots without damaging the roots. Even if they survive, these will not flourish or perform any ecological functions, so it is equal to being dead,” Babu said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/20-heritage-jamun-trees-may-be-uprooted-in-central-vista-revamp-101620334233182.html
07-05-2021||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||It’s October 2021.Life is almost back to normal after the coronavirus pandemic in the global north.Following the example of the UK, the US and many other countries, have even given those over the age of 50 years a third shot of the Pfizer/BioNTech or Moderna vaccine.Economies are growing; it isn’t quite like the roaring twenties that followed the Spanish Flu (and preceded the Great Depression), but things are definitely looking up.There are still stray, minor outbreaks caused on account of the anti-vaxxers (who have no protection against the disease other than what they get on account of herd immunity, which has been achieved thanks to the widespread vaccination) and the rare mutant strain, but because most vaccines offer protection from serious illness, none of these is serious enough to warrant the closure of anything.School is on. As is college. Offices are open (although many companies continue to offer people the flexibility of working from home, or just about anywhere). Shops and restaurants are open. Large-scale sporting and cultural events have restarted. And countries have full-time vaccine czars running huge departments that have figured out schedules for revaccinations and booster shots. Vaccines, these countries have discovered, are the only way to get the better of the pandemic.In short, life is good.But that’s in the global north.Also read | How different will Covid's 3rd wave be from first two? What government saysIt’s October 2021.Things are still bad in the global south. There are not enough vaccines to go around. Some countries have vaccinated around 20-25% of their population and they are the outliers. Many others have vaccinated far fewer. Even those that have vaccinated a fourth of their population are struggling. The only way they have been able to keep infections under check is by continuing with harsh non-pharmaceutical interventions. Everyone continues to wear masks and practice social distancing. School is still online (or hybrid). As is college. That means the underprivileged who are at the wrong end of the digital divide slide even further down. Most offices remain closed — indoor spaces are lethal — and people continue to work from home. Shops and restaurants follow stringent rules.Large outbreaks are common. As are attacks by variants of the Sars-CoV-2 virus that result in flare-ups of infections. Herd immunity (the good kind, achieved through vaccination) is some distance away. Every time there is an outbreak, there is a lockdown. Some last weeks, others months. Everyone is tired of stopping and starting, then stopping and starting again. Economies are in tatters.Travel outside the countries, especially to the global north, is difficult. Those that want to travel need to prove that they have been vaccinated; everyone is tested on landing; and some countries insist on a quarantine on top of everything else.And because even the first round of vaccination isn’t complete, these countries are caught between universal coverage (for at least everyone who wants a shot), and revaccination, and booster-shot drives.In short, life is a mess.October is four months away. India, a country that is in the global south, still has a shot at living the scenario described above for the global north. But for that, it will need to resurrect its faltering vaccine drive (which means, most importantly, accepting that it is faltering). It’s the only way to crush the second wave of the pandemic — and prevent (or lessen the impact of) a third that the government told us on Wednesday was coming.It’s still not too late to do what it takes to make the first scenario India’s reality by October 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-what-you-need-to-know-today-101620333651349.html
07-05-2021||India||Protagonists of negative politics defeated: Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan||The Left Front’s decisive victory in Kerala will help the party and secular forces across the country, state chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Thursday, underlining that his government will put forth a positive agenda focused on development and arresting the second wave of Covid-19 infections.In an interview to HT, Vijayan credited the Left Democratic Front’s (LDF) win, which bucked a four-decade-old electoral trend of the state changing governments every five years, to welfare measures, transparency and development.“This is the achievement of the people. They were very clear that the protagonists of negative politics were kept away from power. People have rewarded us mainly because we kept our promises,” said the 76-year-old.The LDF’s stellar performance in Kerala – it won 97 of the state’s 140 assembly seats – was somewhat marred by the group’s poor showing in erstwhile bastion West Bengal, where it drew a blank. But Vijayan said the Kerala win will rejuvenate the party and secular forces.Also read | Kerala Covid-19 cases reach unprecedented levels, state announces 8-day lockdown“They always looked up to Kerala, as we have been relentlessly fighting the communal agenda propelled by the RSS [Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh]. We were also able to put across an alternative agenda on both social and economic spheres,” he said.He said the state had no space for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and said he triumphed in the polls despite a conspiracy to destabilise his government through central agencies. He also acknowledged that a surge in Covid-19 infections – the state has been reporting 36,059 cases on average – was a challenge.“Containing the pandemic is our major task, and we are confident of success. We have already sought assistance from the central government, including an additional share of vaccines. We are working in unison with the central government to contain the spread of virus,” he said.He highlighted that the previous government focussed on infrastructure development in roads, air connectivity, power, and gas and his second term will stress on attracting more investment, developing tourism, and creating jobs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protagonists-of-negative-politics-defeated-kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-101620330747600.html
07-05-2021||India||Monsoon set to keep June 1 onset date with Kerala||India is likely to see a normal monsoon this year, expected to arrive on time in Kerala on June 1, a top government official said on Thursday, citing an early indication ahead of the India Meteorological Department’s official forecast due May 15.India receives about 70% of its annual rainfall during the four-month rainy season, which is crucial for the country’s farm-dependent agricultural economy that employs nearly 50% of the country’s population.A normal monsoon -- which hits Kerala around June 1 and covers the rest of the country by mid-July -- is imperative for the agriculture sector, especially this year, as it could help farmers and cultivators sidestep losses due to a pandemic ravaging the country.“Extended range forecast suggests monsoon will arrive over Kerala on time, around June 1. This is an early indication. @indiametdept [The India Meteorological Department] official monsoon forecast on May 15 and rainfall forecast update around May 31,” said M Rajeevan, secretary, Ministry of Earth Sciences.“Early analysis indicates monsoon will arrive around June 1 over Kerala. Like we have projected earlier it’s likely to be a normal monsoon this year,” he added.Also read | IMD forecasts thunderstorms with moderate to heavy rain in Delhi, adjoining areaIn its long-range forecast, IMD said on April 16 that annual monsoon rains are likely to be normal at around 98% of the long period average (LPA) after two years of above-average rainfall. It, however, said there can be a variation of 5% over or under the prediction.The same month, private weather forecasting agency Skymet Weather too assessed that monsoon is likely to be a “healthy normal” at 103% this year. The IMD’s forecast indicated this at the lower end of its normal LPA range.LPA is the average rainfall (88cm) recorded from 1961 to 2010, and rainfall between 94-106% is considered “normal”.India has recorded above-average monsoon rains in the last two years -- considered to be the prime reason for the farm sector’s resilience despite the Covid-19 pandemic that severely hit businesses and brought economies to a standstill during the 68-day nationwide lockdown last year. The agriculture sector grew 3.4% in the June 2020 quarter even as the Indian economy shrank 24.4% in the same period. In the quarter ending December 2020 , agriculture grew at 3.9% and India’s GDP recovered to see 0.4% growth.Experts said a normal monsoon will significantly help the agriculture sector tide over the public health crisis this year as well. “Migrant labour normally goes back to their villages during the Kharif season to do some farming because urban incomes are uncertain and living in urban areas is also increasingly becoming uncertain. So, going back and farming reduces risk. In the past five years farm insurance has become a serious problem because many states including Telangana and Gujarat haven’t managed to pay their premiums and went out of insurance cover. A normal monsoon is so important for reducing risk to people’s lives,” Ramanjaneyulu GV, executive director at the Centre for Sustainable Agriculture, Telangana, said last month.Around 60% of India’s net-sown area does not have access to irrigation, and relies on monsoon rains. Nearly half of the country’s population, including 150 million farmers, is engaged in the sector. Additionally, monsoon rains also replenish 89 nationally important reservoirs that are critical for drinking and power generation.If the forecast is accurate, this will only be the second time in two decades that India will have recorded normal rainfall for three consecutive years. Previously, India saw normal monsoon for three back-to-back years from 1996-1998.The normal date for monsoon withdrawal is October 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-set-to-keep-june-1-onset-date-with-kerala-101620330218545.html
07-05-2021||India||Support grows for India over patents||The Biden administration on Wednesday announced the US will support temporary waiver of intellectual property rights to Covid-19 vaccines, accepting a key element of a joint proposal by India and South Africa at the World Trade Organization (WTO), and said it will “actively participate” in negotiations to “make that happen”.The decision, also backed by French President Emmanuel Macron, reversed former president Donald Trump’s opposition to the proposal in its entirety. It was welcomed as a “monumental moment” by WHO director general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus and was a called a “bold decision” by Doctors Without Borders (Médecins Sans Frontierè — MSF).The UK and the European Union, too, indicated a change in their posture, but the German government opposed the move, saying it would create “severe complications” for future vaccines.People familiar with the matter said it is a “limited waiver” that the US is supporting, as it covers only vaccines and not therapeutics and related technologies as proposed by India and South Africa. And, given the consensus-based approach of the WTO, it will not happen overnight.“The administration believes strongly in intellectual property protections, but in service of ending this pandemic, supports the waiver of those protections for Covid-19 vaccines,” US trade representative Katherine Tai said. “We will actively participate in text-based negotiations at the World Trade Organization (WTO) needed to make that happen.”Following US announcement, the EU and the UK also indicated a change in their posture, or a willingness to do it. European Commission president Ursula von der Leyen said “we are ready to discuss how the US proposal for a waiver on intellectual property protections for Covid-19 vaccines could help achieve that objective” of addressing the global crisis.Also read | Moderna sees no impact on Covid-19 vaccine from potential patent waiverFrench President Emmanuel Macron, too, reversed his previous stance and said he is “absolutely in favour”. In London, a government spokesperson said, “The UK is working with WTO members to resolve this issue. We are in discussions with the US and WTO members to facilitate increased production and supply of Covid-19 vaccines.”The proposal will now be discussed and cleared by the general council, which is the highest decision-making body of WTO. The council will lay down conditions under which member countries will be allowed to “violate” the agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS), which protects patents and copyrights. This could take weeks and months or years as it did when WTO dealt with patented drugs and HIV/AIDS that was the last time it confronted similar policy challenges, according to people familiar with ongoing negotiations.Officials in India welcomed the decision. “We welcome the statement of the US government of 5th May announcing their support for this initiative. We are hopeful that with a consensus-based approach, the waiver can be approved quickly at the WTO,” the external affairs ministry said in a statement. “The waiver is an important step for enabling rapid scaling up of manufacture and timely availability of affordable Covid-19 vaccines and essential medical products,” it said.In the joint proposal filed in October, India and South Africa had sought a waiver of TRIPS provision “in relation to prevention, containment or treatment of COVID-19”, covering, in other words, vaccines, diagnostic kits and technologies and therapeutics such as remdesivir. The US support for waiver is only for vaccines.Watch | Covid update: Russia approves Sputnik Light; Rajdhani, Shatabdi trains suspended﻿The Biden administration was under mounting pressure from lawmakers of the ruling Democratic Party, rights groups at home and a growing number of WTO member nations — more than 100 at last count — to reverse US opposition to the waiver proposal ordered by Trump, who was in office when India and South Africa moved their joint proposal last October. The US was joined in its opposition to the waiver by the EU, the UK, Japan and Switzerland, essentially developed countries that had built up sizable stockpiles of vaccines and therapeutics.“The administration’s aim is to get as many safe and effective vaccines to as many people as fast as possible,” Tai said. “As our vaccine supply for the American people is secured, the Administration will continue to ramp up its efforts – working with the private sector and all possible partners – to expand vaccine manufacturing and distribution.”“I warmly welcome her willingness to engage with proponents of a temporary waiver of the TRIPS agreement to help in combating the Covid-19, pandemic,” Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, World Trade Organization chief , said in a statement, read to reporters by her spokesperson Keith Rockwell.India and South Africa moved the proposal before WTO calling for temporary waiver of the agreement on TRIPS to protect patents and copyrights, with the goal of ensuring easy and affordable access globally, and specially to developing countries, to Covid-19 vaccines, therapeutics and related technologies till the pandemic had been crushed.GAVI, the global vaccine alliance said: “We recognise also the significance of the (Biden) administration’s commitment to work towards increasing raw material production which will have an immediate impact on alleviating current global supply constraints.Gavi urges now that in the interests of global equitable access the US supports manufacturers to transfer not only IP but also know-how in a bid to urgently boost global production.”Also read | European Union 'ready to discuss' Covid-19 vaccine patent waiverThe proposal secured the support of the majority of the members of the WTO but ran up against a small group of developed countries led by the US.The pharmaceutical companies were opposed as well and remain so. “This change in longstanding American policy will not save lives,” said Stephen Ubl, the president and CEO of PhRMA, a lobbying group for the biopharma industry. “This decision does nothing to address the real challenges to getting more shots in arms, including last-mile distribution and limited availability of raw materials.” Opponents of the waiver have argued that IP rights to the vaccines do not pose a barrier to equitable distribution, but scalability of production.“The decision probably wasn’t made lightly,” said Atman Trivedi, an Obama administration official, who was on Biden’s presidential transition team, pointing to the centrality of intellectual property safeguards to the American economy. “But the strong humanitarian case, as infections surge in India, throughout South Asia, Latin America, and other parts of the developing world, is compelling.”The second wave of Covid-19 in India added a sense of urgency to the debate on whether or not the US should support the waiver, as the tragedy unfolding in overcrowded, ill-equipped and understaffed hospitals and overwhelmed cremation grounds was depicted in graphic details in words and visuals in the US media.Rick Rossow, who holds the India chair at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, a leading tank, welcomed the US’s decision but said, “India and other nations have the right to break patents anyways under Compulsory License rules... But proactively announced American support further helps repair the damage caused by the noticeable period of American inaction from mid-April.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/support-grows-for-india-over-patents-101620329411029.html
07-05-2021||India||400 priests booked in Kerala for flouting Covid-19 protocol||The Kerala police on Thursday booked 400-odd priests including Church of South India (CSI) South Kerala Diocese Bishop Father Dharmaraj Rasalam for allegedly flouting Covid-19 protocol to organise a religious retreat in the hill station of Munnar in Idukki district last month. The incident was discovered after two priests died of Covid-19 last week and more than 100 participants reportedly tested positive. Some of the reformist groups in the church alleged that a section of priests was forced to attend the retreat after church authorities threatened them with disciplinary action. There were many attempts to hush up the case and most of the infected were shifted to a medical college run by the church along the Kerala-Tamil Nadu border discreetly, they alleged. A case was registered after a senior revenue official inquired about the incident and found that more than 450 people, a majority of them priests, attended the meet flouting all Covid-19 norms. District collector H Dinesh later asked the police to register a case against them. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had called the incident “unfortunate” on Wednesday. Church insiders said all norms were flouted during the event and at least 400 priests and others participated in the event organised by CSI Christ Church in Munnar. They said some young priests questioned the timing of the meet but they were threatened with disciplinary action by authorities. “Photos of the retreat show all Covid-19 norms were flouted. None of them were wearing masks. We alerted some top officials about this but no action was taken then,” said Jacob Mathew, a member of the Joint Christian Council, a reformist group. But the church maintained that all precautions were taken and only 28 priests tested positive, not 100. “The event was planned much earlier and we met all norms. Most of the priests were infected weeks after the event,” said diocese secretary T T Praveen. But reformists insisted that the event turned out to be a super spreader. The CSI retreat is the latest religious event to hit the headlines for recklessness during the pandemic. Last year, at the beginning of the first wave, a congregation of the Tablighi Jamaat in New Delhi caused a spike in cases. Last month’s massive congregation at the Kumbh Mela also contributed to spike in Covid-19 cases in many northern and central Indian states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/400-priests-booked-in-kerala-for-flouting-covid-19-protocol-101620329634365.html
07-05-2021||India||Centre approves key appointments in department of military affairs||The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet (ACC), headed by the Prime Minister, has cleared the appointment of senior military officers as additional secretary and joint secretaries in the department of military affairs (DMA) under the defence ministry. In an order issued late on Wednesday, the ACC approved the appointment of Lieutenant General Anil Puri as additional secretary in the DMA. It also cleared Major General K Narayanan, Rear Admiral Kapil Mohan Dhir and Air Vice Marshal Hardeep Bains for the posts of joint secretary in the department. Chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat heads the DMA as its secretary. The DMA was set up by a gazette notification issued on December 30, 2019. Puri and the other three officers were already holding these posts in the DMA in officiating capacities but did have the powers vested in the positions as the government had not formally approved the appointments, officials familiar with the developments said on Thursday. “Now that the appointments have been cleared, files will not have to be channelled through the CDS. Things will move at a faster pace,” said an official. Rawat wears three hats — he is the permanent chairman of the Chiefs of Staff Committee (COSC), heads the DMA and is the single-point military adviser to the defence minister. The government expects Rawat, who took charge as India’s first CDS on January 1, 2020, to bring about jointness among the three services in a three-year time frame (by January 2023). One of the means to achieve jointness is the setting up of integrated theatre commands for the best use of military resources to fight future battles. The DMA is one of the five verticals in the defence ministry — the departments of defence, defence production, defence research and development and ex-service welfare. One of the key responsibilities of the DMA is to work towards promoting the use of indigenous equipment by the services at a time when the armed forces are dependent on imported military hardware.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-approves-key-appointments-in-department-of-military-affairs-101620328734186.html
07-05-2021||India||400 priests in Kerala booked for violating Covid protocols||Kerala police on Thursday booked around 400 priests, including Church of South India (CSI) South Kerala Diocese Bishop Dharmaraj Rasalam, for allegedly flouting Covid-19 protocol as hundreds attended a religious retreat in the hill town of Munnar in Idukki district of the state last month. The incident came to light after two priests died of Covid-19 last week and more than 100 participants reportedly tested positive after the event, organised by the CSI Christ Church in Munnar between April 13-17. Overall, around 400-450 people, a majority of them priests, attended the event, according to reformist groups in the church. The event was organised at a time the state, like much of the country, is witnessing a surge in Covid-19 cases. On Thursday, Kerala added a record 42,464 cases with a test positivity rate of 27.28%, an all-time high for the state. It also announced an 8-day lockdown, starting May 8, that banned all gatherings.A case was registered after district officials inquired about the incident and found on Wednesday that around 450 people attended the meeting after flouting pandemic norms. District collector H Dinesh later asked the police to register a case against them. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan termed the incident “unfortunate” on Wednesday. Some of the reformist groups in the church alleged that a section of priests was forced to attend the retreat after church authorities threatened them with disciplinary action. There were many attempts to hush up the incident and most of the people infected after attending the event were shifted to a medical college run by the church along the Kerala-Tamil Nadu border discreetly, they alleged. “Photo session of the retreat shows all norms were flouted. None of them were wearing masks. We alerted some top officials about this, but no action was taken then,” said Jacob Mathew, a member of the Joint Christian Council, a reformist group. But the church maintained that all precautions were taken and 28 priests tested positive, not 100. “The event was planned much early and we met all norms. Most of the priests were infected weeks after the event,” said diocese secretary TT Praveen. Church officials refused to comment on other allegations. “We have booked them under Section 269 of the IPC (unlawful gathering) and provisions of the epidemic management control act. Since majority of them are undergoing treatment we have to wait for further probe. Our preliminary investigation show 480 participated in different batches in different days. We have booked them as unidentifiable now other than the bishop,” said Munnar deputy SP R Suresh. Among infected are Church of South India (CSI) South Kerala Bishop, Father Dharmaraj Rasalam. Two priests who attended the retreat -- Father Bijumon (52) and Rev Shine B Raj (43) -- died last week after contracting Covid-19.The Munnar event is the latest religious event to hit the headlines for holding large gatherings as the second wave of the pandemic ravages the country. On May 3, hundreds of women gathered for a religious event in violation of the Covid-19 norms at a village in Gujarat’s Ahmedabad district to “eradicate coronavirus”, police said, adding that 23 had been arrested. Over 9.1 million pilgrims attended the Mahakumbh in Uttarakhand’s Haridwar from January to April this year even as states battled shortage of medical supplies. At least 100 seers and mela officials were infected with Covid-19 and four died from the viral illness, authorities said. Experts also say pilgrims who returned to their home states after the event may have fastened local outbreaks. Last year, one of India’s first large outbreaks was attributed to the weeks-long congregation of the Tablghi Jamaat in March in New Delhi. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/400-priests-in-kerala-booked-for-violating-covid-protocols-101620328253600.html
07-05-2021||India||Andhra begins enforcing partial lockdown, Telangana still waiting for nod from KCR||As the Andhra Pradesh government began strictly implementing partial lockdown with effect from Wednesday afternoon to contain the spread of Covid-19, the Telangana government is yet to take a call on enforcing any lockdown in the state, at least during the weekends. According to an official in the Telangana state health department familiar with the development, the authorities are waiting for instructions from chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, who has just recovered from Covid-19. KCR, who had been under quarantine at his farmhouse at Erravelli village of Siddipet district since April 19 when he tested positive for the virus, returned to his official bungalow Pragati Bhavan in Hyderabad on Thursday, two days after he tested negative. “He is expected to hold a high-level meeting on Friday to review the Covid-19 situation in the state and decide on whether to enforce lockdown – total or partial. At present, there is only night curfew in the state – from 9 pm to 6 am, which will be in force till May 8,” the official cited above said. The high court on Wednesday suggested that the government consider the possibility of imposing lockdown at least during the weekends and inform the same to the court by Saturday. “We shall take the high court’s suggestions into consideration while exploring all other options,” state chief secretary Somesh Kumar said. Kumar held a high-level review meeting at the secretariat on Wednesday and went around various hospitals on Thursday to find out the ground situation. He said as of now, the situation in Telangana was under control and there was a gradual decline in the number of cases in the state. According to the bulletin issued by the state health department on Thursday morning, out of 79,824 people who underwent tests for Covid-19, as many as 6026 positive cases were reported on Wednesday night, besides 52 deaths. The cumulative number of positive cases in Telangana till now is 4,75,748 and total death toll is 2,579. The chief secretary said if people took proper precautions, there was no need to impose lockdown. “The healthcare system of the state is able to reach out and provide medical facilities at the right time. Lockdown is not a solution as it affects the livelihoods of millions of people,” he said. The Andhra Pradesh government on the other hand has begun strictly implementing partial lockdown in the state – from 12 noon to 6 am every day, in the wake of growing number of Coronavirus cases in the state. The partial lockdown will continue for 14 days. All shops will be open between 6 am and 12 noon every day, after which curfew is being enforced till 6 am the following day. Only emergency services will be allowed to operate after 12 noon. No public or private transport on the roads and no shops would be allowed to run. The state government also withdrew RTC bus services in the afternoon. On Thursday, Andhra Pradesh reported as many as 21,954 positive cases for Covid-19, apart from 72 deaths. The cumulative number of positive cases in the state so far is 12,28,186 and the total death toll is 8446, a bulletin released by the state health department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-begins-enforcing-partial-lockdown-telangana-still-waiting-for-nod-from-kcr-101620328074072.html
07-05-2021||India||Plane carrying Remdesivir injections crash lands in MP’s Gwalior||A plane owned by the Madhya Pradesh government carrying Remdesivir injections crash-landed at Gwalior airport on Thursday night, according to the district collector. The pilot Captain Majid Akhtar, co-pilots Shiv Jaiswal and Dileep Kumar were on board the plane. They sustained minor injuries and have been admitted to a hospital, said Kaushlendra Vikram Singh, district collector, Gwalior. “The plane took off from Indore with vials of Remdesivir. The reason for the crash landing is not clear yet but it was a minor accident and the vials of Remdesivir injections are safe. Air force officers reached the spot and rescued the pilots and co-pilots after the incident,” Singh said. Gwalior, superintendent of police, Amit Sanghi said, “Prima facie, it appeared that there was a snag with the plane’s arrestor gear, which is used on the runway. However, the real cause of the crash landing will be informed by the pilot, who is in a state of shock right now.” The plane- Beechcraft 250- which met with the accident was purchased by the state government in 2020 at a cost of ₹65 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plane-carrying-remdesivir-injections-crash-lands-in-mp-s-gwalior-101620327054221.html
07-05-2021||India||Ajit Singh: From IIT grad to India’s beloved farm leader||Former Union minister and Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) chief Ajit Singh, who was elected to Parliament seven times on the strength of his base among farmers in western Uttar Pradesh and held several federal portfolios, died of Covid-19 at a private hospital in Gurugram on Thursday. He was 82.Singh, the son of former prime minister Charan Singh who was known as north India’s tallest farmer leader, was diagnosed with Covid on April 20. The disease came at a time the Jat leader was rebuilding his party in Uttar Pradesh and supporting the ongoing farmers’ agitation against three central agricultural laws.“Throughout his life journey, Chaudhary Sahib was loved and respected by many. He, in turn, cherished this bond with all of you and gave his best consideration and efforts for our welfare,” his family said in a statement.The family implored his followers to stay at home and obey Covid protocols. “This would be the best way to honour Chaudhary Sahib as well as all those Covid warriors who are working night and day to protect us,” the statement said.Also read | PM Modi, Rahul Gandhi among leaders who condole Ajit Singh's deathBorn on February 12, 1939, Singh obtained a B.Tech (Computer Science) from IIT- Kharagpur and MS from the Illinois Institute of Technology. He worked as a computer scientist in the US for 15 years before he took a plunge in politics to fill the vacuum created by the death of his father in 1987.“Deeply saddened by the passing away of former Union minister Chaudhary Ajit Singh ji. He was always devoted to the interests of the farmers. He efficiently discharged the responsibilities of several departments at the Centre. My condolences to his family in this hour of mourning,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted.Singh started his political career with the Lok Dal and later allied with the Congress, the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Mulayam Singh Yadav-led Samajwadi Party. He was a seven-time Lok Sabha MP from Uttar Pradesh’s Baghpat and founded the RLD in 1996. He was first elected to the Rajya Sabha in 1986. He entered the Lok Sabha from Baghpat in 1989, and was re-elected in 1991, 1996, 1997, 1999, 2004 and 2009.He served as a Union minister on multiple occasions, the first being minister for industry in 1989 in the National Front government led by VP Singh and the last being civil aviation minister from 2011 to 2014 in the United Progressive Alliance government.“He always raised his voice in the interest of the farmers. As a public representative and minister, he left a different impression on the politics of the country. My condolences to his family and well-wishers,” President Ram Nath Kovind tweeted.RLD fared poorly in the 2014 and 2019 general elections and the 2017 Uttar Pradesh assembly polls, but Singh, and his son Jayant Chaudhary, was in the process of rebuilding the party’s base in western UP. The party held several huge meetings in support of protesting farmers and also won crucial rural body seats in the just-concluded panchayat polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ajit-singh-from-iit-grad-to-india-s-beloved-farm-leader-101620326993414.html
07-05-2021||India||India welcomes US support on waiving covid vaccine patents||New Delhi India on Thursday welcomed the US administration’s support for waiving patent protections for Covid-19 vaccines and expressed the hope that a waiver can be quickly approved at the World Trade Organization (WTO) through a consensus-based approach. US Trade Representative (USTR) Katherine Tai announced the Biden administration’s support on Wednesday following pressure from a group of 110 Democratic lawmakers. More than 100 countries have backed a proposal made by India and South Africa at the WTO last October for a waiver of intellectual property protections on Covid-19 vaccines. Prime Minister Narendra Modi personally raised the matter with US President Joe Biden during a phone call on April 26, and informed him about India’s initiative at the WTO that is aimed at countries around the world. “We welcome the statement of the US government of 5th May announcing their support for this initiative. We are hopeful that with a consensus-based approach, the waiver can be approved quickly at the WTO,” the external affairs ministry said in a statement. “The waiver is an important step for enabling rapid scaling up of manufacture and timely availability of affordable Covid-19 vaccines and essential medical products,” it said. India and South Africa proposed a relaxation in the norms of the WTO Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) on October 2 last year in view of the global health crisis and the need to combat the pandemic. The move was aimed at ensuring quick and affordable access to vaccines for developing countries. “As a result of proactive outreach by India and other like-minded countries, the proposal has received the support of more than 120 countries,” the statement said. The US move comes against the backdrop of a fresh push by India and South Africa at the WTO for the waiver of patent protections by presenting a revised text of last year’s proposal that is expected to highlight the urgent need for equitable and speedy access to vaccines following a second wave of Coronavirus infections in countries such as India. The revised proposal is also expected to state that patent protections for vaccines should be waived for a limited timeframe. USTR Tai said in a statement that the Biden administration believes strongly in intellectual property protections but “supports the waiver of those protections for Covid-19 vaccines” in order to end the pandemic. “This is a global health crisis, and the extraordinary circumstances of the Covid-19 pandemic call for extraordinary measures,” she said. The US will actively participate in text-based negotiations at the WTO to obtain the waiver. “Those negotiations will take time given the consensus-based nature of the institution and the complexity of the issues involved,” she said. With vaccine supply for the American people secured, the Biden administration will ramp up efforts by working with the private sector and all possible partners to expand vaccine manufacturing and distribution. It will also work to increase raw materials needed to produce vaccines, Tai said. The US position was also welcomed by UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres, whose spokesperson Stéphane Dujarric described the move as unprecedented. “It opens the opportunity for vaccine producers to share the knowledge and technology that will allow the effective expansion of locally-produced vaccines and can significantly increase the supply to the COVAX facility,” he said. However, the Biden administration’s decision has angered pharmaceutical companies, which have opposed any waiver on the grounds that it could hurt future innovation. They have also said the production of Covid-19 vaccines is a complex process that requires extensive capabilities and sophisticated technology, and can’t be ramped up simply by easing patent protections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-welcomes-us-support-on-waiving-covid-vaccine-patents-101620326933497.html
07-05-2021||India||Govt forms channels to allocate foreign aid||Foreign aid coming to India to help the country cope with the raging second wave of the coronavirus disease is being transparently distributed , on the basis of a methodology to ensure their optimal use , primarily to the states with a high case load and regional medical hubs, according to a top government official directly involved in channeling this aid.Government documents, reviewed by HT, show that three channels have been set up each for government-to-government aid, private donations, and direct aid to the states.Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant said, “We are about 100% transparency on all foreign aid related to Covid19.” According to him, the Niti Ayog, the government’s think tank, “has set up a portal in which donors can track the relief material, end-to-end, till it reaches intended beneficiaries.”India has been receiving international donations of Covid-19 medical supplies and equipment since April 27 from countries including the US, UK, Russia, UAE, France, Thailand, Germany, Uzbekistan, Belgium and Italy. Between April 27 and May 5, India has received 1764 Oxygen Concentrators, 1760 Oxygen Cylinders, 7 Oxygen Generation Plants, 450 ventilators and at least 1.35 lakh Remdesivir vials.Also read | States step up curbs as Covid-19 tightens gripThe grants received directly from foreign nations, individuals or organizations are routed through the external affairs ministry. Some donors are willing to send materials directly to the states, and the government has asked each state to set up a nodal officer.In cases where the aid is not earmarked, the Centre has decided that these grants in aid must be allocated to high burden states or states with higher number of active cases and where the requirement for such equipment or medicines is more. This, the government maintained, would help in optimal utilization of the donations. On Wednesday, the government said in a statement that 38 institutions across 31 states and Union territories ries have already received (or shortly receive) material.“Spreading such grant in aid thinly over a large number of states without any specific empirical criteria [such as number of active cases] may not bring forth the desired results. It will also lead to small packages travelling large distances, high turnaround times and possible wastage of resources,” a government note said, esplaining the rationale behind the allocation.Apart from high-burden states, special focus is also being given to states that are considered medical hub of the region and where patients from other states come. “In some cases, resource low states such as North Eastern and hill states where tankers etc. don’t reach, can also be covered,” said a note, a copy of which has been reviewed by HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-forms-channels-to-allocate-foreign-aid-101620326873472.html
07-05-2021||India||SC rejects EC petition over reporting of Madras HC observations||Underlining that “a courtroom is a public space”, the Supreme Court on Thursday ruled that real-time reporting of court proceedings was an extension of the freedom of speech and expression of the press and that “public constitutional institutions must find better responses than to complain”.The bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and MR Shah dismissed a plea by the Election Commission of India (ECI) to restrain media from reporting oral observations of the judges that the poll body was singularly responsible for a second wave in the country and that its officials should probably be tried on murder charges for allowing political parties to hold massive rallies without following Covid-19 norms.“We find no substance in the prayer of the EC for restraining the media from reporting on court proceedings. This court stands as a staunch proponent of the freedom of the media to report court proceedings. This, we believe is integral to the freedom of speech and expression of those who speak, of those who wish to hear and to be heard and above all, in holding the judiciary accountable to the values which justify its existence as a constitutional institution,” held the top court.Also read | What is the plan on vaccinating children, top court asks CentreIt highlighted that with the advent of technology, reporting has been proliferated through social media forums which provided real-time updates to a much wider audience. “This is an extension of the freedom of speech and expression that the media possesses. This constitutes a virtual extension of the open court...Acceptance of a new reality is the surest way of adapting to it. Our public constitutional institutions must find better responses than to complain,” it emphasised.On April 26, the high court made the scathing remarks against ECI while hearing a writ petition by Tamil Nadu transport minister MR Vijayabhaskar, who sought a direction for safety measures and fairness during counting in Karur constituency from where he was contesting. “You are the only institution that is singularly responsible for the situation today...No action against political parties taking rallies despite court orders. Your election commission officials should be put up on murder charges probably,” the high court observed.In its appeal before the Supreme Court, the ECI maintained that the remarks made by the high court were widely reported in the media and have tarnished the image of the ECI as an independent constitutional authority, besides reducing the faith of the people in the poll body.Deciding the ECI’s petition, the Supreme Court said that the high court could have been more cautious in its remarks, but declined to issue an order of expunging them after noting that oral remarks were not a part of the official judicial record at all. It said that a formal opinion of a judicial institution is reflected through its judgments and orders, and not through its oral observations during the hearing.At the same time, the bench acknowledged that the ECI shouldered a significant burden in ensuring the sanctity of electoral democracy while noting noted in its judgment that the remarks were harsh and metaphor inappropriate, as it added that judges should exercise caution in off-the-cuff remarks in open court, which may be susceptible to misinterpretation.“A degree of caution and circumspection by the high Court could have allayed a grievance of the nature that has been urged in the present case. All that needs to be clarified is that the oral observations during the course of the hearing have passed with the moment and do not constitute a part of the record,” said the court, clarifying the high court remarks did not seek to attribute culpability for the Covid-19 pandemic in the country to the ECI.However, the bench remained firm that there could be any shackles on the right of the media to report on the proceedings, saying it would be retrograde for this Court to promote the rule of law and access to justice on one hand, and shield the daily operations of the high courts and this court from the media in all its forms, by gagging the reporting of proceedings, on the other.The court also regretted that the poll body had sought to restrain media from reporting oral observations, noting: “This prayer of the ECI strikes at two fundamental principles guaranteed under the Constitution – open court proceedings; and the fundamental right to the freedom of speech and expression.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-rejects-ec-petition-over-reporting-of-madras-hc-observations-101620326814051.html
07-05-2021||India||What is the plan on vaccinating children, top court asks Centre||The Supreme Court on Thursday asked the central government about its preparedness to deal with the third wave of Covid-19 pandemic,underlining that the vaccination of everyone below 18 must also be undertaken as soon as possible.Starting May 1, anyone aged 18 or over is eligible for a Covid vaccine. Out of country’s total population of 1.3 billion, around 450 million are under 18 and, as such, not eligible for a vaccine yet. Around 160 million doses of a coronavirus vaccine have been administered so far with 30 million people, which is just a little over 2% of India’s population getting the complete two doses.To be sure, most vaccines are not yet approved for people below 18, and Canada became the first country in the world on Wednesday to approve Pfizer’s Covid-19 vaccine for ages as young as 12. HT reported this week that experts have pointed to the importance of planning for the vaccination of those below 18 because there cannot be a proper opening up until the entire population is protected. The number of companies conducting trials of vaccines for children is limited and if India doesn’t move fast enough, supplies may not be available.On Thursday, the bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and MR Shah sought to know from the government whether any policy was being contemplated to combat a third Covid-19 wave in the wake of opinions of experts that it may affect children worse than the first two waves have.K VijayRaghavan, principal scientific advisor to the government of India, on Wednesday said that a third wave of Covid-19 was inevitable looking at the current surge in infections.Also read | Centre needs to revamp its O2 allocation plan: SC“How will you deal when the third surge comes? There are reports about it. Your own scientists are taking about this,” the bench asked solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who appeared for the Union government.Mehta responded that the government was mindful of this and would take all appropriate steps but it was willing to consider if the court had anything to suggest. “My lords may tell us what we should do,” he said.The bench, however, retorted that the question was for the government so that the court could have a fair idea of how the government planned to combat the third wave.“In the third wave, children are going to be affected. And the issue is that when they will have to be taken to hospitals and they will have to be accompanied with by their parents. Therefore, we say that when we plan for the third stage, the vaccination process for young children has to be complete,” the bench told the SG.It added that the court was looking for a scientific way of dealing with the issue of preparedness before the third wave descends. “We are not saying that it is only the government’s problem but we will have to also deal with this. And we will have to deal with this in a scientific way,” it said.The SG replied: “I appreciate that the highest court of the country is sharing and expressing its concerns with the Centre and is not asking for a report...What is to be done is yet to be decided.”“But we are exactly on this...what is to be done? The second wave is already here. Our idea is to ask you about this is so that we are not caught unawares when the situation descends on us.”Mehta, on his part, then said that it could not be lost sight of that nothing is static.This made justice Chandrachud quip: “Arre, wo sab to theek hai ki (we understand that) nothing is static. But, when will it become dynamic? We are in a pandemic. There has to be a plan.”Hearing the case relating to allocation of oxygen to Delhi, the bench further lamented that the Centre’s formula on allocation of medical oxygen to the states was not scientific and required a revamp.“We need to assess the basis of oxygen allocation. We are in stage two of the pandemic and we may be getting to stage three. All need to prepare to be able to handle stage three,” it said.At this point, Mehta said the Union government was open to consider all the suggestions mooted by the court regarding review of the Covid-19 management policies, including the one on allocation of oxygen to the states. The court is expected to take up this issue with the Centre on Monday again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-is-the-plan-on-vaccinating-children-top-court-asks-centre-101620326813436.html
07-05-2021||India||States step up curbs as Covid-19 tightens grip||Kerala, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan imposed complete lockdowns on Thursday, joining a number of other states that have curbed movement of people and banned gatherings to arrest the second wave of coronavirus infections.Kerala decided to enforce an eight- day lockdown beginning Saturday, with chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan blaming the “worsening” Covid-19 situation for the move.Kerala recorded 42,464 new infections on Thursday, the highest since the outbreak hit the state last year.Though its fatality rate is the lowest in the country (below 0.4%), statistics show it is also climbing steadily in the last one week with 58 deaths reported in the last 24 hours. In terms of total cases of the viral infection, Kerala is at the third spot after Maharashtra and Karnataka.“The entire state of Kerala will be under lockdown from 6am on 8 May to 16 May. This is in the background of a strong 2nd wave of #COVID19,” Vijayan tweeted. The CM said there was no need for panic.“Availability of essential articles/services will be ensured. Lockdown is essential to ensure #COVID19 spread is contained and that our lives are secure. Let us all cooperate. We shall overcome,” he added.Also read | Kerala Covid-19 cases reach unprecedented levels, state announces 8-day lockdownIn Madhya Pradesh, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said the only way to break the chain of transmission and contain Covid-19 cases was for people to “close down everything” till May 15.Chouhan also announced free treatment for patients from poor financial background, common citizens and middle class population in Madhya Pradesh, an official of the state’s public relations department said.To facilitate this, a package will be unveiled on Friday under the Ayushman Bharat health insurance scheme. Also, the government plans to sign an agreement with private hospitals for free CT scan and other medical tests, the official said.“Corona is a big crisis for humanity. The only option to control the corona is to break the chain of infections. We cant close down everything for long. We have to make peoples life easy. Therefore, till May 15, we should close down everything. Strictly follow janata curfew and break the chain of infection,” Chouhan said.Currently, Madhya Pradesh is under a slew of restrictions to stem the spread of COVID-19.Chouhan said health infrastructure was being readied to deal with a possible third wave of infections. “Oxygen plants are being set up in each district. A total of 95 such plants will be established in the state,” he saidMadhya Pradesh on Thursday reported 12,421 fresh cases and 86 fatalities,according to the HT dashboard.Also read | Covid: Madhya Pradesh govt extends ongoing 'Janata Curfew' in state till May 15He asked officials to launch a “kill corona campaign” in cities and villages by conducting door-to-door surveys and identifying patients whose treatment can start immediately.The Rajasthan government has imposed a lockdown in the state from May 10 till May 24 to curb the spread of Covid-19. Weddings in the state have been banned till May 31.In view of a fresh surge in COVID-19 cases, curfew was extended in the three heavy caseload districts of Dehradun, Udham Singh Nagar and Haridwar in Uttarakhand till May 10.The curfew, which was imposed in the last week of April, was earlier scheduled to end on Thursday. The order asked the DMs of the remaining 10 districts to assess the situation in their areas and impose curfew from May 6 to May 10 (till 5 am), if required. However, there shall be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement during the period, the order said. Ration shops will open on alternate days, while milk booths and vegetable shops will be allowed to operate till only 12 pm daily.Uttarakhand recorded its highest caseload in a day with the detection of 8,517 fresh infections on Thursday.On Thursday, Dehradun district reported the highest number of fresh cases at 3,123 followed by 1,130 in Udham Singh Nagar, 1,045 in Haridwar||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-step-up-curbs-as-covid-19-tightens-grip-101620326633503.html
07-05-2021||India||Union minister’s convoy attacked in Bengal as violence after polls continues||Post poll violence continued to rock the state of West Bengal as former Trinamool Congress (TMC) legislator from Dinhata in Cooch Behar, Udayan Guha, sustained a fracture in his right arm, two of his security officers suffered head injuries and a car in the convoy of Union minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan was vandalised on Thursday.The incidents took place on a day when a four-member team was rushed by the Centre to take stock of the violence that broke out ever since the results of the assembly elections were declared on May 2.Muraleedharan and his vehicle were not affected in the attack that reportedly took place in Panchkuri area where the minister had gone with state BJP leader Rahul Sinha to meet party supporters. By evening, at least eight TMC workers were arrested in this regard.Sharing a video of the incident, the minister tweeted: “TMC goons attacked my convoy in West Midnapore, broken windows, attacked personal staff. Cutting short my trip.”Also read | MHA sends team to Bengal, seeks report from governor on violence“The violence tarnishes Bengal’s image,” he later told reporters in West Midnapore.In Dinhata, the ruling TMC called for a 24-hour bandh to protest against the attack on Guha, who lost the local seat to BJP’s Nishith Pramaik.TMC’s Cooch Behar district president Partha Pratim Roy alleged that the attack was carried out by workers belonging to the saffron party.Refuting the allegations, BJP district chief Malati Rava Roy said: “Guha lost the polls because of infighting within the TMC. It is the members of the rival faction that attacked him and his security personnel,” Roy said.At a press conference later in the day, chief minister Mamata Banerjee urged the saffron party to accept the mandate of the people. “Cooch Behar is witnessing more violence than other places as the BJP bagged several seats there. BJP leaders and Union ministers are visiting villages to instigate the people. The BJP is indulging in violence. I request BJP leaders to accept the people’s mandate and restrain themselves,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-minister-s-convoy-attacked-in-bengal-as-violence-after-polls-continues-101620324773331.html
07-05-2021||India||Bengal House now wears bipartisan political shade||The West Bengal assembly, India’s second largest state legislature after Uttar Pradesh, is also one of the least diverse Houses now after Mamata Banerjee’s All India Trinamool Congress (AITC) and the Bharatiya Janata Party mopped up 290 out of 292 seats that went to the polls this summer.For the first time, the Bengal assembly doesn’t have representation from the Congress and the Left Front, projecting a bipartisan shade of political representation that was unthinkable in the state till 10 years ago.But West Bengal is not the only assembly in India where all seats are distributed between just two parties. The Delhi assembly, for the last 10 years, has seen Arvind Kejriwal’s Aam Admi Party enjoying a sweeping majority. and the seats are divided between the AAP and the BJP.“See, it’s the BJP that tried to polarize the Bengal elections. But the plan backfired and ultimately, Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool got more than two-third majority. In the process, some parties got wiped out. The Congress got just 2.8% votes. These parties will not be heard in the floor of the assembly,” said TMC national spokesperson and former union minister Saugata Ray.Also read | Union minister’s convoy attacked in Bengal as violence after polls continuesAlong with West Bengal, Kerala, Assam, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry also went for polls. In Assam, as many as seven parties will be present in the assembly while in Tamil Nadu eight parties have found representation.Kerala, where the LDF alliance headed by the Left Front retained power , has the highest number of parties in any Indian assembly. With various regional factions of Congress and other local parties making their mark, as many as 15 political outfits, barring independents, will be present in the Kerala legislative assembly.Among the large states, Madhya Pradesh is the only other state where nearly all seats are concentrated between two political parties. In the 132-member House, the BJP and the Congress dominate most of the seats with just a few independents and one MLA of the BSP.Former Lok Sabha secretary general P Sreedharan maintained that number of parties or their strength doesn’t matter much in legislative Houses. “Numerical strength is no guarantee of an effective opposition. Even a four- or five-member strong Opposition bench can be effective if they have good orators,” he said.Underlining that in the parliamentary system of India, political parties have to accept the people’s mandate, Sreedharan said, “I remember in 1967, the Congress had just 9 seats in Kerala . But it was such a good opposition that in the next poll, it came to power.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-house-now-wears-bipartisan-political-shade-101620324653296.html
07-05-2021||India||MHA sends team to Bengal, seeks report from governor on violence||The Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) on Thursday sent a four-member fact-finding team to West Bengal as post-poll violence continued to roil the state and a Union minister alleged his convoy was attacked by Trinamool Congress (TMC) workers.In Bengal, chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced that 16 people from Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), TMC and Sanyukta Morcha died in clashes, which began soon after her party won a thumping victory in assembly elections on Sunday. “We will pay a compensation of ₹2 lakh to their family members,” she said at the state secretariat in Kolkata, accusing BJP leaders of provocation.MHA also sought a detailed report from governor Jagdeep Dhankar on the current law and order situation in Bengal, people familiar with developments said. On Monday, MHA had sought a detailed report from West Bengal government and asked it to take necessary steps to ensure such incidents stopped “without any loss of time”. The ministry also issued a reminder to the government in this regard on Wednesday.Also read | Calcutta HC directs Centre to take instructions about Covid-19 vaccine supplyThe four-member team left for Bengal early Thursday. It will prepare a detailed report on the violence, possible suspects behind it and reasons for TMC government not being able to stop it, which will be submitted to the MHA for action, the people cited above said.BJP alleged that TMC workers torched their homes, ransacked party offices and killed several members. “TMC goons attacked my convoy in West Midnapore, broken windows, attacked personal staff. Cutting short my trip,” tweeted Union minister of state for external affairs, V Muraleedharan.Dhankhar condemned the violence. “Another sleepless night with reports of rampant post-poll violence continually pouring. Ashamed of such anarchy and lawlessness @MamataOfficial. In the morning another shocker from print media! All is well? How can this be? And today central minister attacked,” Dhankhar tweeted.Dhankhar also alleged the state government was not sending reports sought by him. “Governance @MamataOfficial away from constitutional prescriptions. Post-poll violence and vandalism continue unabated. ACS @HomeBengal has not even sent reports sought by me 2 days ago and sitting ones from @WBPolic @KolkataPolice. Silence of Fourth Pillar of Democracy baffling,” the governor said in another tweet.TMC denied the charges, saying BJP was putting out fake news and pointing out that several of its workers, including former MLA Udayan Guha, were attacked. “BJP leaders are roaming around, they are provoking. It is not even 24 hours of the new government, they are sending letters, teams and leaders are coming. They are actually not ready to accept the mandate. I request them to accept people’s mandate,” Banerjee said.She said even central ministers will need to carry Covid-negative test report to enter West Bengal. The state made it mandatory for anyone entering the state on flights, long-distance trains and interstate buses to carry RT-PCR negative test report from May 7.“Anyone coming from outside the state, including ministers, will have to carry test reports. We would check the reports even for those coming on special flights,” Banerjee said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-sends-team-to-bengal-seeks-report-from-governor-on-violence-101620324593323.html
07-05-2021||India||Historic victory in Kerala will certainly reinvigorate Left: Pinarayi Vijayan||Despite facing several odds, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan led the CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front to a sterling victory in Kerala, rewriting the four-decade-old electoral trend of the state changing governments after every five years. The 76-year-old architect of the win is about to take the crease for his second innings. He spoke to Hindustan Times about how he did it, and stressed that his party’s return to power will help Left and secular forces across the country.Edited excerpts: Your government bucked the four -decade-old political tradition of Kerala alternating governments every five years. How did you achieve this?It is true that history has been made in Kerala. However, I don’t see this as our achievement alone. In fact, this is the achievement of the people. They were very clear that the protagonists of negative politics were kept away from power. People have rewarded us mainly because we kept our promises, almost fully, despite major calamities. For the first time in the country, we were able to bring out progress reports every year in relation to our commitments. The transparency we ushered in enabled people to have a proper connect with the administration. Welfare measures and developmental efforts helped us create a new culture that the people endorsed through this huge mandate.The Kerala victory is being seen as a sign of Left revival, but the party and its ideology faced a debacle in Bengal. What lessons can the Left take from Kerala? It’s true that we have received setbacks in Bengal. But the historic victory in Kerala will certainly reinvigorate Left and secular forces in the country. They always looked up to Kerala, as we have been relentlessly fighting the communal agenda propelled by the RSS. We were also able to put across an alternative agenda on both social and economical spheres. I am sure this Left victory will inspire many.In this surge, you managed to close the BJP’s account in Kerala. But many say the BJP may aspire to take some of the space vacated by the Congress in the state? Do you foresee any such threat? As you must have followed what we often said, the Left has been consistent in its fight against the BJP. During the election campaign, I categorically said that the account of the BJP would be closed, and as you can see, the electorate has rejected the BJP completely. They had one seat, and that has been lost. Moreover, their voting percentage has come down considerably. The media has been reporting that their votes couldn’t even match their membership!I don’t want to speak about the future of Congress, as it is for them to decide. However, it would be good for them if they can stop their soft attitude towards the BJP. During the last five years, the Congress had joined with the BJP to attack the LDF government. People have seen through their agenda. I wish wisdom descends on the Congress leadership.Several scandals rocked your government, and central agencies probed some of the cases. You called it a larger conspiracy to weaken your government. Yes, the conspiracy was explicit. We know that everywhere in the country central investigating agencies are being used against political opponents. There are many examples. Rahul Gandhi says he is one of the victims of the central agencies’ political witch-hunting. Unfortunately, the Congress in Kerala joined hands with the BJP to destabilise the Left Front government and collaborate with the central agencies. The people of Kerala firmly rejected all canards propagated against the Left government using central agencies. We know that some of the agencies violated laws and constitutional provisions. We will fight this, both legally and politically.The fight against the pandemic was one of reasons for your return? But cases are on the rise again. How will you go about controlling the Covid surge? The efforts of the government are backed by a well-knit health system. Apart from this, various agencies and organisations are supporting the government to tide over this grave crisis. Containing the pandemic is our major task, and we are confident of success. We have already sought assistance from the central government, including an additional share of vaccines. We are working in unison with the central government to contain the spread of virus.People close to you say that you are a tough taskmaster and work like a CEO? Any perceptible change in your style of functioning in 2.0? The media has a habit of stereotyping. They should realise that people know their leaders well. Every person has his or her style of functioning. What is important is how you function to develop your state, to mitigate the sufferings of the people, to create more job opportunities for the educated youth. People will evaluate you on your performance or delivery, and the so-called style is irrelevant.You said infra development will be top on your agenda in the next five years. Any big projects to cite?I am happy to say that the previous Left Front government could pave a strong foundation for our infrastructure development in major sectors, such as roads, air connectivity, power, and gas. Of course, we have to create infrastructure to global standards to attract more investment, develop tourism, and to create jobs. The new government will formulate projects in accordance with our manifesto.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/historic-victory-in-kerala-will-certainly-reinvigorate-left-vijayan-101620324413327.html
07-05-2021||India||PM Modi chairs meeting to review Covid-19 situation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday held a meeting with his top Cabinet colleagues to review the progress of ongoing Covid-19 vaccination, availability of drugs such as Remdesivir, and to discuss the scaling up of vaccine production.“Citizens should be facilitated for vaccination despite lockdowns and healthcare workers involved in vaccination must not be diverted for other duties,” Modi directed officials at the meeting, according to an official statement.Modi was also informed about the vaccine wastage across the country.Also Read | Delhi adds 19,133 new Covid cases, 335 deaths; positivity rate below 25%“As many as 17.7 crore [177 million] vaccines have been supplied to the states in the country and almost 31% of eligible population over the age of 45 has been given at least one dose of the COVID vaccine,” the statement said.Union ministers Rajnath Singh, Amit Shah, Nirmala Sitharaman, Harsh Vardhan, Piyush Goyal, Mansukh Mandaviya attended the meeting along with top officials.Modi called for ensuring quick and holistic containment measures to prevent the further spread of the virus in the country.He was told about 12 states that have over 100,000 active cases. Modi said the states should be given help and guidance on how to ramp up the healthcare infrastructure. He added the states should ensure that the speed of the vaccination should not decrease.Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren said, "Today, the honourable PM called. He only spoke his mind. It would have been better if he spoke and heard about the work needed instead."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-chairs-meeting-to-review-covid-19-situation-101620301672683.html
07-05-2021||India||India, Australia, France call for equitable access to Covid-19 vaccines||India, France and Australia have said fair and equitable access to safe and affordable Covid-19 vaccines and treatments globally will be crucial for collective recovery from the pandemic, especially for people in the most vulnerable countries.The three countries also pledged during their first trilateral ministerial dialogue to work together to achieve a free, open, inclusive and rules-based Indo-Pacific, and to support freedom of navigation, peaceful resolution of disputes, democratic values, and respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity.India’s external affairs minister S Jaishankar, France’s foreign minister Jean-Yves Le Drian and Australia’s foreign minister Marise Payne met in London late on Tuesday on the sidelines of the G7 foreign ministers’ meeting. The talks were held in-person before the Indian delegation began self-isolating after two members tested positive.The trilateral ministerial dialogue was originally scheduled to be held in New Delhi on the margins of the Raisina Dialogue but was deferred after Payne called off her visit to India amid a massive surge in Coronavirus infections in India.Also Read | US backs India, South Africa’s Covid-19 vaccine patent waiver planWhile discussing ways to enhance trilateral cooperation to cope with challenges linked to the pandemic, the three foreign ministers called for “fair and equitable access to high quality, safe, effective and affordable Covid-19 vaccines and treatments globally”, according to a joint statement issued on Wednesday.This, they said, will be a central factor in collective recovery, especially for people in vulnerable situations, including women and girls in the most vulnerable countries, particularly in Africa.The India side thanked France and Australia for their support for India’s Covid-19 response and the ministers also recognised India’s contribution to supplying vaccines to various countries, bilaterally and through multilateral mechanisms such as the WHO-backed COVAX facility.France and Australia have rushed a range of equipment, including large oxygen generation plants, oxygen concentrators and ventilators, to help India cope with a severe shortage of oxygen as daily infections crossed the 400,000-mark in recent days.The three ministers agreed to deepen cooperation on maritime safety and security in the Indo-Pacific, and welcomed the holding of a trilateral information-sharing workshop on maritime domain awareness at India’s Information Fusion Centre for the Indian Ocean Region, where France and Australia have assigned liaison officers. The three sides also encouraged information-sharing between humanitarian and disaster relief agencies of the three countries.Also Read | China suspends economic dialogue with Australia as relations curdleThe ministers also emphasised the importance of a coordinated approach to deal with illegal unreported and unregulated (IUU) fishing, which they described as a “trans-boundary and transnational problem that affects the biological sustainability of relevant fish stocks and impacts the livelihoods of fishers...and coastal communities in developing countries”.The three sides also agreed that the Covid-19 crisis had demonstrated the need for strong multilateral institutions underpinned by openness, accountability and balance that can deliver for all countries. They said they were committed to a reformed, UN-centred multilateralism and Australia and France reaffirmed their support for India’s permanent membership of the UN Security Council.The ministers also committed to intensify coordination at multilateral institutions such as the World Health Organization, standard-setting bodies and the UN Human Rights Council. They also decided to work closely with the G20, with particular focus on economic recovery and the response to Covid-19.In the field of counter-terrorism, the ministers agreed to work together through the upcoming “No Money for Terror” ministerial conference and pointed to the importance of cooperation to address risks to international security from malicious cyber activity, and to ensure that technologies critical to shared interests in security and prosperity are designed and developed in line with public safety and democratic values.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-australia-france-call-for-equitable-access-to-covid-19-vaccines-101620289671370.html
