11-05-2021||India||Practically impossible to provide oxygen to other states: Kerala CM||As virus Covid-19 cases continue to soar in the coastal state, Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday sent a fresh letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi saying it will be practically impossible to provide medical oxygen to other states as its buffer stock has dipped to 86 metric tonne. Addressing the media during a virtual meeting, Vijayan said going by the present surge the state’s active caseload is likely to cross 600,000 by the next week and the state will need at least 450 MT of medical oxygen. He said the state government was giving 40 MT of oxygen to Tamil Nadu daily as per the direction of central committee on oxygen pool. Kerala on Monday reported as many as 27,487 new Covid-19 cases and 65 fatalities, taking the caseload to 19,00,060 and death toll to 5,879, the state said.While the total number of active cases stands at 4,19,726, the positivity rate is at 27.56 per cent, showing signs of decline.With 31,209 recovering from the disease in the last 24 hours, the total number of people recovered reached 15,04,160.Ernakulam, which reported highest number of cases in the state in the last few days, added 2,834 new cases.As many as 99,748 samples were tested and the test positivity rate (TPR) was 27.56 per cent.“In view of rapidly rising cases it will be difficult for the state to meet demands of other states. So the state will be allowed to procure all 150 metric tonne produced at Kanjikode (Palakkad) plant,” he said. The main oxygen producing unit ‘Inox’ is located in Kanjikode and it was partly catering to the needs of two neighbouring state Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. He also requested the Centre to send more cryogenic tankers. In normal situation daily need of the state is 80 MT and it is producing around 219 metric tonne from big and small units. But as cases surge experts have warned that demand will rise at least five times in a week. Last week, the CM sent another letter to the PM requesting him to share imported oxygen concentrators and ventilators. The state has also started a vigorous drive to check oxygen wastage and technical teams will visit all generating and filling stations. In terms of daily caseload Kerala is on third spot after Maharashtra and Karnataka and it is under lockdown till May 16. “There is no let up in situation. In 72 panchayats TPR is above 50 per cent and in 300 it is above 30%. Cases are surging in Kannur, Ernakulam and Thiruvananthapuram districts. We have to strengthen lockdown to keep fatality down,” he said. Despite high load of active cases mortality rate in the state is lowest .04 against the national average of 1.40. He said the health department will hire more doctors, nurses and paramedical staff to meet the exigency and called back retired workers. The jail department has released 560 prisoners on parole as per the directive of the Supreme Court to ease virus surge in jails.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/practically-impossible-to-provide-oxygen-to-other-states-kerala-cm-101620673759909.html
11-05-2021||India||HC tells Centre to augment oxygen supply to Tamil Nadu||The Madras high court on Monday said it was necessary to take urgent measures to augment oxygen supply to Tamil Nadu and think of an alternate plan amid a sharp rise in demand of the life-saving gas. The bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy made the observations in the suo motu plea taken up by the court to monitor the second wave preparedness in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. The court observed that until a national task force is formed, as ordered by the Supreme Court on May 6, it is the Union’s responsibility to ensure continuous supply of oxygen and drugs to states and union territories. The court also asked Additional Solicitor General (R Sankaranarayanan) to take up the issue with the Centre. During the hearing, newly-appointed state advocate general R Shunmughasundaram submitted that Tamil Nadu’s demand about a week ago was for 475 MT of oxygen on a daily basis. On May 8, the Centre allocated daily quota of 419 MT. This includes 40 MT supply from Palakkad in Kerala till May 12.But the state’s assessment is that the demand for oxygen will rise to 800 MT “within the next few days”, the court noted. The court also took note of media reports that local residents stopped vehicles carrying oxygen from Palakkad towards Coimbatore and the neighbouring areas in view of the perceived shortage of supply in Kerala. “The State and the Centre should find ways of effective supply to the south-western region of the state since supply from Sriperumbudur or elsewhere in north or central Tamil Nadu may be logistically difficult and at any rate, less efficient than ensuring supply from neighbouring Palakkad which is about 40 km away,” the court said. It was also submitted to the court that the Sterlite facility in Thoothukudi district which was allowed to by the Supreme Court to re-open for the sole purpose of producing oxygen may begin production this week with an anticipated 40 MT per day as initial supply.With the present allocation and rising demand, the court said that it was necessary to think of a plan B and explore options such as oxygen generators being set up by Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) at short notice.As experts warned of a third wave, the court said, “It is necessary to be over-prepared and not require the resources being put to use rather than being unprepared and rue for not having garnered additional resources. The objective of the exercise is to prepare for the worst and hope that the worst does not hit us.”The bench, however, observed that given the lockdown in Tamil Nadu from May 10-24, will lead to tapering of cases. It also noted that given a new government formed in the state, most key officials have been transferred except health secretary J Radhakrishnan, to ensure continuing measures to fight the pandemic. The court said that though the state has augmented bed availability, “both Tamil Nadu and Puducherry seem to be crying out for the requisite supply of drugs and vaccines.” Due to lack of doses, the state hasn’t rolled out vaccination for the 18-45 age group. “Learned ASG has assured to take up the case of both the State and the Union Territory with the Centre, at least till such time that the National Task Force set up by the Supreme Court order gets down to the nitty-gritties of allocation and the like,” the court said in its orders. “It is necessary that immediate urgent measures be taken, both to augment the supply of oxygen in the state and of vaccines and drugs to both the state and the Union Territory.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-tells-centre-to-augment-oxygen-supply-to-tamil-nadu-101620673579899.html
11-05-2021||India||Kadapa blast: Quarry owner, aide arrested from bus stand||Two days after an explosion at a limestone mine in Kadapa district claimed 10 lives, police arrested C Nageshwar Reddy, owner of the quarry and E Raghunath Reddy, the supplier of explosive materials, from a bus stand on Monday.Briefing reporters on the same, district superintendent of police (SP) K K N Anburajan said the accused were allegedly trying to escape when they were arrested from the bus stand in Amagampalle village. “We shall take some more persons suspected to be involved in the procurement of detonators,” the SP said. The explosion took place when the labourers were trying to unload the detonators from a car brought from Pulivendula to Konda Gangamma Thalli limestone quarry at Mamillapalle village of Kalasapadu block on Saturday morning. Manager of the mine Lakshmi Reddy and driver of the vehicle Korivi Prasad were among the 10 labourers who died on the spot. Anburajan said investigations revealed that there were more than 1,000 detonators in the vehicle at the time of the explosion. “The quarry owner had no permission to possess or transport the explosives and had also gone in for excavation of mineral more than the permitted quantity,” he said. Nageshwar Reddy, who belongs to Chenchaiahgaripalle village, holds the general power of attorney for the quarry, which was originally leased out to C Kasturi Bai, wife of C Ramachandraiah, legislative council member of YSR Congress party 10 years ago. The lease will expire in November this year. “Raghunath Reddy, who belongs to Pulivendula town, has been supplying the explosive material to Nageshwar Reddy illegally, for using them in exploration of mineral in the quarry,” the SP said. The accused were booked by Kalasapadu police under section 304 (2) of Indian Penal Code, besides sections 3, 5 and 6 of the Explosive Substances Act. Preliminary investigations, the SP said, revealed that the accused was using explosive material without permission and undertaking mining activities without environmental clearance. “A multi-departmental probe has been ordered into the incident,” he said. He added that the original lease holder would also be served notices for appearing before the inquiry committee. “We shall take stringent action against all those who responsible for the explosion,” Anburajan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kadapa-blast-quarry-owner-aide-arrested-from-bus-stand-101620673520382.html
11-05-2021||India||Confusion, chaos prevail as strict lockdown kicks in||Bengaluru: The first day of the second lockdown announced by the Karnataka government resulted in chaos and anguish in many parts of the state including Bengaluru. In rural areas, citizens were seen flouting the guidelines and in some cases, police were forced to resort to lathi-charge. According to the lockdown guidelines, shops selling essential items like food, groceries, vegetables, fruits, dairy, milk, meat, fish and animal fodder are permitted to operate from 6 am to 10 am every day. As per the new regulations, public transport will remain suspended, and people will not be allowed to move around except in case of emergencies, essential services or vaccination. Use of private vehicles to buy parcel food and essentials is also not allowed except for home delivery of food.One of the biggest concerns was the decision not to allow people to use their private vehicles to purchase essential supplies. The move was criticised for being city-centric without looking at the realities of the rural parts. Sandeep Poonacha, a resident of Virajpet in Kodagu district said that it was impossible for him to walk more than 10km carrying loads of essential commodities. “People sitting in A/C rooms have made these decisions for Bengaluru city and implemented it for the entire state. How do they expect us to travel more than 10 km to get to a grocery store, pick essentials for a family of four and walk back with it? Do people in power know what they are doing,” he asked. Poonacha added that his cousin, who went on his private vehicle to purchase supplies for all the relatives, was thrashed by the police. Even in Bengaluru, similar concerns were raised. “The government said online deliveries will be available, but all slots are booked and if we call the shops for delivery, they refuse. If you go to the shop, there are large queues, and we only have a window of four hours to get milk and other supplies. Because vehicles are not allowed, we can’t go to other stores if the lines are huge. If this is the measure to control Covid-19, this is certainly not going to work,” said Naveen Sastry, a resident of Bengaluru’s Kammanahalli. Apart from this, on Monday, several videos of police personnel resorting to violence emerged on social media. In one case, in Hirikur in Haveri district, police were seen hitting vegetable vendors using plastic pipes. The police in Haveri alleged that these vegetable vendors remained opened after 10 am. However, the Karnataka government guidelines on lockdown have mentioned that the sale of vegetables and fruits on pushcarts and HOPCOMS (Horticultural Producers’ Cooperative Marketing and Processing Society)will be allowed from 6 am to 6 pm. In Bengaluru, roadside vendors faced the wrath of government action. In a video released by a group of social activists, Nagaraja, a vegetable vendor in Bengaluru’s Gandhinagar said officials arrived before 10 am and shut all footpath vendors. “How do we make our living with this deadline? We carry our business by maintaining physical distance and also keep sanitiser,” he said.GM Diwakar, president, K.R. Market Flower Merchants’ Association, said the government has been unfair. “Flowers are a permissible commodity. Since the markets are closed; only roadside vendors are allowed and it accounts for a fraction of the sales. While we are not added to the exception list, liquor is. How is liquor an essential commodity,” he asked. In a series of tweets, HD Kumaraswamy, the JD(S) second-in-command expressed his anger over the way lockdown has been implemented. “Strict lockdown and not just lockdown, where people will be beaten up like cattle has been implemented from today. It is a tragedy that the government thought lockdown means stopping vehicular movement. It forgot the woes of citizens in distress,” the JD(S) leader tweeted. He said these were not the restrictions the opposition had suggested.Responding to the allegations of police atrocities, Bengaluru police commissioner Kamal Pant tweeted: “Contrary to the videos doing rounds on social media, police have been advised to only take action strictly as per law, in case anybody violates lockdown guidelines. They have been advised not to use any kind of force in this regard.”He also added that anyone having any complaint regarding travel to the place of work or carrying out permitted activities during the lockdown, can contact DCP Intelligence Santhosh Babu on 080-22942354.Meanwhile, Karnataka DG and IGP Praveen Sood late on Monday evening tweeted that people are allowed to use vehicles for buying essential goods. “To buy groceries, vegetables and daily needs there is NO BAR for using a vehicle to your neighbourhood shop in cities or nearest availability point in rural areas. Use this facility with discretion & not as a licence for a free run every day. Stay at home for your own safety,” he wrote. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/confusion-chaos-prevail-as-strict-lockdown-kicks-in-101620673519881.html
11-05-2021||India||16 Muslim Covid warriors reinstated||Bengaluru: The 16 Muslim Covid warriors who were named by Bengaluru south member of parliament, Tejasvi Surya in connection with the “bribe for bed scam” were reinstated back into their parent company on the instructions of Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), on Monday. Special BBMP chief (south zone) Thulasi Maddineni however said that only 11 out of the 16 had asked for their suspension to be withdrawn and wanted to be employed again, while the others have not approached the BBMP. The developments come days after Surya and three other BJP legislators from Bengaluru--Ravi Subramanya, Uday Garudachar and Satish Reddy--barged into the BBMP war room in the south zone and questioned how these 16 were hired by the agency. Bengaluru police official said that no investigation has been ordered against these men either. Hours after BBMP’s decision, Surya, while addressing the media said that it was the BBMP that had prepared the list to dismiss or relocate. When Hindustan Times asked Surya why the 16 people were reinstated by BBMP, when they were part of the list of people to be dismissed, Surya shrugged his shoulders without an answer. When asked why he read out the names without knowing why such a list, which had 16 of the 19 Muslim employees of the war rooms, was made Surya said: “The list was given… I questioned how they were appointed and what is the process of appointing.” To the question on why such a list was made in the first place, Surya said: “You should ask the officers who made it.” The BJP MP further said that the MLA who accompanied him and claimed that the 16 men on the list were responsible for the ‘bribe for bed scam’, should be held accountable for his action and his words alone. He also made it clear that he has not apologised to any of the 16 Muslim employees. Changes made to bed booking system Meanwhile, earlier in the press conference, Surya announced four major changes in the BBMP bed booking systems. Following the expose by the MP, Bengaluru police had launched an investigation in which at least seven people have been arrested so far. Even on Monday, police arrested two men Sudhir and Venkoba Rao, who are accused of blocking beds and taking money to allocate it to patients. Surya said that major changes that were incorporated with the help of Infosys co-founder Nandan Nilekani were included such as instant SMS alert to a patient after a bed is booked, disabling of ‘manual unblock’ option, reducing reservation time of a hospital bed from 10 hours to 4 hours and two-factor authenticated person-specific logins. “Manual unblocking of beds, which was the biggest loophole used by miscreants to make proxy bookings, is now disabled. If a patient needs to be shifted to a different hospital, then a rebooking can be done. Another major reform is the instant SMS alerts to patients with the details of the beds booked in their name. This will henceforth prevent beds being booked in patients’ names without their knowledge,” he said. He also added that the team felt that the auto-unblock time of a bed, where a bed will be automatically unbooked if a patient does not report for hospital admission for 10 hours, is too long. “This is now reduced from 10 hours to 4 hours, meaning a hospital bed booked under your name is valid only for 4 hours with an option to re-block in exceptional circumstances,” Surya said. “Another important change is in the war rooms booking beds. We have also activated two-factor authenticated person-specific logins for more accountability. Earlier, war rooms had generic logins with common usernames used by multiple people. Bookings will now be tagged to individuals, and this will help in bringing transparency as every booking is tagged to one specific person,” he added. Several more reforms like a digital queuing system for allocation of beds, shortening of reservation time of a bed and an Aadhaar-enabled biometric or OTP verification during admission are in the pipeline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/16-muslim-covid-warriors-reinstated-101620673459839.html
11-05-2021||India||EPS to be leader of opposition in TN Assembly||Former Tamil Nadu chief minister and All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) leader Edappadi K. Palaniswami was on Monday unanimously elected leader of the legislative party to become the leader of opposition in the state assembly. The decision was taken after a three-hour meeting at the party office in Chennai on Monday. The party had earlier met on Friday but failed to arrive at a consensus. It was important for the AIADMK to elect its legislative party leader on Monday as the newly-elected legislators are expected to take oath on Tuesday.At the meeting, senior leader K P Munusamy announced Palaniswami as the opposition leader to the newly-elected MLAs. “It is a unanimous decision of the new MLAs and senior leaders without any dissent,” C Ponnaiyan, one of AIADMK’s founding members, said.The announcement was followed by a statement signed by both Palaniswami and Panneerselvam. With this, political experts believe that Palaniswami has sealed his top position in the AIADMK.“EPS is now the most powerful man in the AIADMK but to be that, he requires the consent of OPS,” political analyst Raveendran Duraisamy said. “The dual leadership still prevails despite EPS commanding more support. OPS will not give up his signing authority. OPS fully knew that he was on the losing side of the battle, but he still gave a fight to establish that it is a dual leadership party and he also have a right and won’t be a push over.” The scene outside the party office was, however, different. The deployment of police increased after cadres supporting their respective leaders grew in number amid a statewide lockdown enforced in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.At Friday’s meeting, the newly-elected MLAs were seated on the first floor of the party office as several senior leaders, along with Palaniswami and Panneerselvam, discussed matters on the ground floor. When asked why Friday’s meeting was inconclusive if there was no dissent, Ponnaiyan said, “There was no actual problem, it was created by the media. Besides choosing the opposition leader, we had to discuss our electoral debacle. Our performance in the north and south regions isn’t appreciable.” In the recently-concluded Tamil Nadu elections, the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK)-led alliance had won 159 seats in the 234-member Assembly. The AIADMK won 66 segments and its partners Bharatiya Janata Party and Paattali Makkal Katchi won four and five seats, respectively. The poll performance gave Palaniswami the upper hand as he and former top ministers hail from the western region where the party performed its best.Pannerselvam, on the other hand, hails from the south. In Theni district, his native place, the party saw its archrival DMK beating it convincinglyP Ayyapan, a new MLA from south Usilampatti constituency, said the AIADMK agreed to the leadership’s decision. “I’m from his (Panneerselvam) region. He hadn’t come to us for support in this matter. He didn’t say he wanted the post,” he said, adding: “It’s the cadre outside who are shouting slogans and leaving.” In what appeared to be a show of strength, Pannerselvam attended chief minister M K Stalin’s swearing-in ceremony last Friday before the AIADMK meeting and also ate together with Governor Banwarilal Purohit, former chief secretary Rajeev Ranjan and other senior DMK leaders.“Whether it is EPS or OPS, it is AIADMK’s internal politics but now that EPS has been elected, we respect the decision and expect that he will play a constructive role as opposition leader as well as in Tamil Nadu politics,” DMK spokesperson J Constantine Ravindran said.Both Palaniswami and Panneerselvam have been managing party affairs and the government since former chief minister J Jayalalithaa’s demise in office in December 2016. The dual leadership arrangement even saw Palaniswami as the chief minister and joint coordinator of the AIADMK while Panneerselvam as deputy chief minister and coordinator of the party. However, there has been frequent tension between the two over important decisions. Tension was also brewing over who would be the leader of opposition. “It is only natural and expected that both leaders had their own support base who put forth their points. We have resolved this now,” a former AIADMK minister said, preferring anonymity.It is for the second time that Panneerselvam has given up on an important post despite putting up a fight initially. In October 2020, after more than a week of MLAs scuttling between the two leaders, Panneerselvam announced the party’s decision to field Palaniswami as the chief ministerial candidate.The party deftly ousted Jayalalithaa’s close aide V K Sasikala and her nephew TTV Dhinakaran in 2017. While the duo wanted to reclaim the party, Sasikala in March announced to stay away from politics. Dhinakaran’s Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) did not win any seats during the polls but played spoiler for the AIADMK in 21 seats. For now, the party said, there will be no deflection.“Sasikala is a spent force. EPS and a majority of the cadre wouldn’t want her back. For any expulsion and inclusion to the party, both EPS and OPS have to sign,” Duraisamy said. Meanwhile, Rajya Sabha MPs Munusamy and R Vaithilingam tendered their resignations since they won as MLAs from Vepanahalli and Orathanadu constituencies. During the poll campaign, AIADMK’s RS MP Mohamed John died of a cardiac arrest and with that, three Upper House seats from Tamil Nadu remain vacant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eps-to-be-leader-of-opposition-in-tn-assembly-101620673400419.html
11-05-2021||India||Form task force to tackle third Covid wave, BSY tells officials||Bengaluru Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Monday directed his officials to prepare for an imminent third wave of Covid-19 infections and ordered the formation of a task force for the same.In a meeting held with officials on Monday evening at his residence “Cauvery” in Bengaluru, Yediyurappa took stock of the pandemic situation and response in the state.“We should be prepared for the third wave from now on itself,” according to a statement from the chief minister’s office (CMO), attributing it to Yediyurappa.The statement comes at a time when the Karnataka government is struggling to get a grip on the ongoing second wave of infections in the southern state and its capital, Bengaluru.The Karnataka government has been accused of ignoring warnings by the state-appointed technical advisory committee (TAC) in November on the imminent second wave and the required preparedness to deal with the same.Karnataka registered 39,305 new infections that takes its active caseload to 571,006. Positivity rate was at 31.66% while fatality rate stood at 1.51%, according to the daily bulletin of the state health department on Monday.Bengaluru saw a slight decrease in cases as the city reported 16,747 new infections, which some senior officials said was a sign of its plateauing. However, Bengaluru accounted for 374 out of the total 596 fatalities in the state.The situation in other districts of the state continues to deteriorate as they are yet to peak, according to officials.Chitradurga, with 172 cases was the lowest in the state while Tumakuru, about 70 kms from Bengaluru, was the highest with 2168, according to the daily bulletin of the state healthdepartment.Meanwhile, the number of fatalities too have seen a spike in these districts. There were 26 fatalities in Ballari, 22 in Hassan, 12 each in Haveri and Mandya, 15 each in Tumakuru and Bagalkote, 11 each in Shivamogga and Uttara Kannada. Only one district, Koppal, registered no deaths on Monday, according to the bulletin, that shows the severity of the spread and its impact on those infected.Though Karnataka has claimed acute shortage of oxygen, a senior government official has said that the supplies were more than the requirement.“The actual oxygen demand and requirement is more than the supplies: hence, therefore, at present, allocation can only be issued as per actual supplies,” according to Munish Moudgil, the state nodal officer for oxygen distribution.Karnataka had earlier estimated that it has a requirement of over 1700 MT of oxygen while the centre had allocated only 965 MT.CN Ashwath Naryan, deputy chief minister and head of the state’s Covid task force directed officials to immediately integrate the real time data of the supply of oxygen, anti-viral drug Remdesivir and bed allocated under government quota in private hospitals to SAST portal.“The above data should be made to be displayed in the SAST portal on a real time basis. This will enable us to know who needs what and to whom the supplied things are reaching on a real time basis. Ultimately this would result in streamlining the COVID services management,” he said in a statement on Monday.For Bengaluru, he said that there was a demand of around 7000 hospital beds.“To put a check on those who get unnecessarily hospitalized, triaging of these bed seekers will be done in 60 L-1 (includes maternity homes, medical colleges, and covid care centers,) and L-2 (PHCs) centers. After triaging the number of beds really needed may reduce to around 2500. Now the government is providing 1000 beds apart from the beds reserved in private hospitals. So, for Bengaluru city every day 2500 beds can be made available,” he said.The state government has also decided to procure 2,00,000 Pulse Oximeters and out of this 25,000 will be procured immediately in the first phase.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/form-task-force-to-tackle-third-covid-wave-bsy-tells-officials-101620673399791.html
11-05-2021||India||For first time since May, city sees a dip in new Covid cases||Bengaluru: The city on Monday saw a significant reduction in single-day Covid-19 infections as India’s IT capital reported 16,747 new cases in the 24 hours. The cases fell sharply for the first time since the beginning of May, which is when experts have predicted a peak in Covid-19 infections in Bengaluru. According to the health bulletin of the state health department on Monday, this is just the second time in May that Bengaluru has reported under 20,000 infections in a single day. “If the same (stagnant number of infections) continue for a few more days, it may be an indication of a decline,” said a senior government official, requesting not to be named. Another senior official said that a decline is expected within the next 10 days. Bengaluru has seen the total number of infections increase from 6,813 cases in February to 31,886 in March. However, the health crisis spiralled out of control in the city as it reported 338,360 infections in April. In the first 10 days of May, Bengaluru has reported 191,547 new infections, according to data from the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP). The city now has 352,454 active cases out of total 571,006 in the state. The positivity rate in Bengaluru is nearly 40%, according to the data. However, the stagnation of infection numbers has not had much impact on the fatality rates which continues to rise rapidly. With a fatality rate of nearly 1%, Bengaluru accounted for 374 out of the 596 fatalities in the state. The city accounts for 8,431 out of the at least 19,372 fatalities reported in the state so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/for-first-time-since-may-city-sees-a-dip-in-new-covid-cases-101620673339838.html
11-05-2021||India||How Karnataka vexed its vaccination strategy||Bengaluru Tech savvy Bengalureans, with their hacks and skills, are managing to get vaccination slots in centres that are 40-80kms around India’s IT capital that is leading to an uneven inoculation drive in Karnataka.A sizable section of persons were seen posting questions to the police on Twitter, seeking information on if it was safe to travel to other districts like Bengaluru Rural, Tumakuru and Chikballapur among other nearby districts to get the vaccine.Salil Bagai, a 29-year-old scientist with the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) travelled nearly 80 kms to Chintamani to get his shot along with six others from his apartment in Ramamurthy Nagar, in East Bengaluru.“I have been trying to book a slot since May 1 with two browsers and laptops opened but could not get one,” Bagai told Hindustan Times. Even his office could not manage to get vaccinations done, prompting the young scientist to scout for slots on his own.An alert that about 130 slots opened up in a hospital in Chintamani was circulated on their apartment WhatsApp group on Sunday night, which led him and at least six others booking slots.Bagai is among many from Bengaluru who have been using these tech hacks to get slots booked as Bengaluru’s centres running full with most of them reporting severe shortage of vaccines. The move to go to another district has also come under some criticism online as this would deprive locals a chance to get inoculated only because they are not techsavvy or do not have online tools .At least two persons who booked slots in Chikkaballapur have since cancelled citing that such a practice would lead to an uneven distribution of vaccine. But such has been the experience of most persons in Bengaluru and other parts of the country between the age groups between 18-44 who have been trying to register themselves on CoWin app and get a slot.“Most people just register on CoWin and think they can get vaccinated. But there is an important step which is to schedule an appointment. Explaining this to people is taking up most of our time which we can treat more Covid-19 patients,” said one government doctor, requesting not to be named.The BS Yediyurappa-led Karnataka government has announced a lockdown to contain the raging pandemic but its lack of preparedness is leading to an acute shortage of hospital beds, medicines and oxygen. Touts, in collusion with doctors and government officials, have been accused of selling hospital beds to medicines to even oxygen in the black market.Yediyurappa had stated that his government aims to vaccinate around 300,000 persons per day but it has fallen short of its own targets, according to the daily bulletin of the state health department. As a result, the vaccination drive has been slow and not kept in pace with the infections in the state. There were 80,823 vaccinations done till 3.30 pm on Monday that takes the total to 10,608,539, according to the bulletin.But only 2,115,571 people have received both doses.K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s minister for health, family welfare and medical education on Monday said that the government is mulling to postpone the vaccination of persons between 18-44 till the lockdown is in place as it was leading to more vehicular movement.“We have vaccines but not enough to give everyone. We have around five hundred thousand vaccines. We are thinking if it is possible to vaccinate persons between 18-44. As they have to come from their homes and may get into trouble due to the restrictions. We are thinking of postponing this for another 14 days (end of lockdown) and have discussed this with chief secretary and home minister,” Sudhakar said on Monday .However, Basavaraj Bommai, Karnataka’s home, law and parliamentary affairs minster on Monday evening said that they will continue with the vaccination drive for people between 18-44 but only for those who have registered (and got a slot) on CoWin. “There were discussions on how to do it during the lockdown,” Bommai said. He added that there were about 200 centres that were giving vaccination to these age groups and those who crowd around these places without registration will not be allowed.A board in Bowring Hospital read, “Vaccination for 18-44 years beneficiaries has not started yet” as people of all age groups jostled for space as small fights broke out between those waiting in queues and those trying to cut them. A significant number were asked to leave the centre as there was a shortage of vaccines.“The portal shows that about 150 persons (18-44) registered. But that was done by East Zone but the BBMP personnel were not aware at all that these many persons had registered so they did not get the vaccine,” Dr.Manoj Kumar HV, Dean cum Director at the Bowring & Lady Curzon Medical College & Research Institute Bengaluru said.Bengaluru, and the rest of Karnataka, have been under the tightening grip of the raging pandemic that claimed 596 more lives in the 24 hours on Sunday. Karnataka registered 39,305 new infections on Monday taking its active caseload to 571,006. Positivity rate was at 31.66% while fatality rate stood at 1.51%, according to the daily bulletin of the state health department.Bengaluru saw a slight decrease in cases as the city reported 16,747 new infections. However, Bengaluru accounted for 374 out of the total 596 fatalities in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-karnataka-vexed-its-vaccination-strategy-101620673219817.html
11-05-2021||India||Factionalism, poor local leadership behind poll losses: Leaders at CWC meet||Congress leaders on Monday blamed factionalism and poor local leadership and cited hurdles in campaigning and paucity of time for preparations as they analysed the party’s performance in the recent assembly polls in the Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting on Monday after party chief Sonia Gandhi asked them to take note of “our serious setback” and told them if they don’t “face up to the reality”, they will “not draw the right lessons.”The party again deferred its internal election to find a successor of president Sonia Gandhi “in view of the nationwide emergent conditions prevailing on account of unprecedented Corona pandemic” and several leaders maintained that organization has to be devoted to Covid-19 relief works. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, who is recuperating from Covid-19, didn’t attend the CWC meeting on Monday.In her opening remarks, Gandhi asked the CWC to “take note of our serious setbacks” and said that “to say that we are deeply disappointed is to make an understatement”. She proposed the creation of a committee to analsze the results in Kerala, Assam, Puducherry and West Bengal and added, “but if we do not face up to the reality, if we do not look the facts in the face, we will not draw the right lessons.According to people present at the meeting, at one point, Gandhi quipped that under her stewardship the party has lost elections in 4 states after senior leader Salman Khurshid urged her to continue through the pandemic because the Congress has achieved much under her leadership.Also read | Sonia to remain Congress chief as party defers polls amid pandemicAfter the chief ministers of states ruled by the Congress who were present at the meeting described the Covid situation in their respective states, it was the turn of the general secretaries to give their assessment of the party’s performance in the recent assembly elections, added the people cited above, who summarised the points made by each. The Congress lost badly in Assam, went against a four-decade trend by losing in Kerala, performed badly in Puducherry, and didn’t win a single seat in the 294-member West Bengal assembly. It was, however, the junior partner in the victorious DMK-led alliance in Tamil Nadu.In his report, Jitendra Singh, in charge of Assam, said the Congress lost the state as it didn’t have sufficient time to prepare and to optimise its alliances with AIUDF and the Bodoland people’s Front. He also said that in upper Assam, the Congress did badly as the BJP backed two local parties to cut away the Congress votes. Singh also pointed out that the difference in vote share between the BJP and the Congress was very narrow, but senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh pointed out that the Congress would have actually done better if it had not partnered with Badruddin Ajmal’s AIUDF.Jitin Prasada , in charge of West Bengal, argued that the Congress could not do well in the last two phases of the West Bengal polls, in areas which were its strognhold as Covid impacted the party campaign. He also admitted that Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress managed to build up momentum in the first six phases that affected the Congress’ fortunes in the last two phases of polling.Dinesh Gundu Rao, in charge of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, congratulated Rahul Gandhi for aligning with the DMK in Tamil Nadu but squarely blamed former Puducherry CM V Narayanasamy for the debacle in the state. He pointed out that Narayanasamy refused to fight elections and many of his loyalists shifted to the BJP or the rival NR Congress.General secretary Tariq Anwar blamed infighting that weakened Congress organisation for the Kerala debacle. Rahul Gandhi campaigned extensively in the state, where the Congres-led UDF and the Left’s LDF have alternated in power since 1977.“The leadership continues to bury its head in the sand and refuses to confront its own failure to lead and direct the party,” Neera Chandioke, political scientist, said.Interestingly, there wasn’t much of an exchange over the poll results and almost all members stressed the importance of being united in this challenging time.Later, briefing the media, Congress general secretary KC Venugopal and party’s chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said a group will be formed in 48 hours to look into the election results and promised to fix accountability. Surjewala claimed that “the Congress has lost the polls, but it has not lost its hope.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/factionalism-poor-local-leadership-behind-poll-losses-leaders-at-cwcmeet-101620672560869.html
11-05-2021||India||Former Congress leaders now helm six states||“There will now be three BJP-ruled states in the North East where Chief Minister is a former Congressman,’’ tweeted Congress Member of Parliament Abhishek Manu Singhvi, going on to list Assam’s Himanta Biswa Sarma who took oath as CM on Monday, Pema Khandu of Arunachal Pradesh and N Biren Singh of Manipur.Singhvi’s message was likely prompted by Sarma being sworn in as CM of Assam. Interestingly, two other CMs sworn in after the latest round of assembly elections are also Congress alumni -- West Bengal’s Mamata Banerjee who founded the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and Puducherry’s N Rangaswamy, founder of the NR Congress.Singhvi explained that he was just pointing out a coincidence.“I genuinely tweeted it when I noticed a striking coincidence in North Eastern states,’’ said Singhvi. “Now that you ask me, there are three other such CMs that have similar umbilical cords. This is merely underlining and not a value judgement on either the Congress or the persons concerned.’’Also read | Factionalism, poor local leadership behind poll losses: Leaders at CWC meetBut there were others who did make a value judgement.“Both Mamata Banerjee and Himanta Biswa Sarma who are taking oath as CM are former Congress leaders. They left because of our arrogance. And disrespect of their opinions. Add Jyotiraditya Scindia to the list. It’s long. It is never too late to learn from one’s blunders,” tweeted former Congress spokesperson Sanjay Jha.There’s also Andhra Pradesh’s Jagan Mohan Reddy.While there is no public acknowledgement of the fact, Hindustan Times learns that there is regret that the party couldn’t retain Sarma.Sarma quit the Congress before the 2014 elections after a fall out with his mentor Tarun Gogoi. The BJP’s decision to move him to the CM’s post is being seen as the party’s recognition of his influence beyond Assam, especially with key elections coming up in other North Eastern states“He is a self-made person and a dynamic leader,’’ a Congress leader said on condition of anonymity. “He would have really helped us grow.’’Congress spokesperson Pramod Tiwari chose to see the brighter side. “This shows that there is no dearth of talent in the Congress party. Now, people may leave because they have misunderstandings with one another but it also exposes that there is no talent in the BJP.”These misunderstandings have proved costly for the party. In late 2010, Reddy’s exit came after the party didn’t make him CM after his father, Y S Rajashekhara Reddy, died in a helicopter crash in 2009.Similarly, N Rangaswamy, who has now become the CM of Puducherry for the fourth time is a Congress veteran who formed his own party in 2011 . The Congress asked him to resign as CM in 2008. “The problem was that he didn’t get along with former Puducherry CM V Narayansamy,’’ said a party leader from the state who didn’t want to be identified. “And he couldn’t lobby with the Delhi leadership. So they only heard Narayansamy’s perspective and not his.’’Likewise, Khandu left in 2016, as did Singh.“No one trusts the Congress leadership,’’ said BJP’s general secretary Arun Singh, who was one of the party’s observers sent to Assam. “If people from there are inspired by (Prime Minister Narendra) Modiji and embrace our ideology, we will welcome them. It’s their weakness that gets exposed.”“The problem is not Congress’s inability to retain talent, but the BJP model of party building based on defections and breaking other parties,” said Zoya Hasan, Professor Emerita, JNU.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-congress-leaders-now-helm-six-states-101620672440155.html
11-05-2021||India||Sonia to remain Congress chief as party defers polls amid pandemic||Sonia Gandhi will remain the Congress president for at least another three months with the party’s Working Committee on Monday, deciding against holding organisational polls by June due to the surging second wave of the Covid19 pandemic, a move that was accepted unanimously.Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot was the first to demand that the polls be deferred. Then, Congress general secretaries Randeep Surjewala and KC Venugopal said that restrictions on physical gathering and movement meant that it made sense to defer the polls for two to three months.The move was not opposed by any of the members of the so-called G23 present at the meeting, people present at the meeting said. This is a group of Congress leaders that wrote to Sonia Gandhi in August, 2020, seeking a change in how the party works, and organisational elections. Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma and Mukul Wasnik, signatories to that letter were present at the meeting and supported the decision to defer the polls.Also read | Cong to form state-level panels to analyse assembly poll resultsGandhi took charge of the party in 2019 when Rahul Gandhi resigned following the Congress’ debacle in that year’s national elections. Since then, both she, as well as several of Rahul Gandhi’s loyalists have pushed for his return to the post -- but Rahul Gandhi himself appears reluctant to do so. To be sure, members of the G-23 have so far not talked about possible candidates for the polls.CWC also lashed out at the Narendra Modi government’s handling of the pandemic and said “the inhumane crisis of non-availability of oxygen, hospital beds, Remdesivir, Ivermectin , Tocilizumab, and vaccines reflects the criminal failure of the central government.”It termed the second wave “a direct consequence of the Modi government’s indifference, insensitivity and incompetence.” It also dubbed the Centre’s vaccination pricing policy as “opaque and discriminatory” and claimed that “the mandatory online registration without a walk-in option will exclude — and may have already excluded —millions of our citizens, particularly those in rural areas and those belonging to the weaker sections of society.”Watch | After poll debacle, Congress postpones internal President election citing CovidIn the meeting, Gandhi asked the CWC to deliberate on the internal polls. Madhusudan Mistry, chairman of the Congress Election Authority proposed that the polls could be held in the last week of June but nearly all leaders felt it would be impossible to do this till Covid subsides.After the Congress chief ministers spoke about the situation in their states, the CWC passed a resolution saying, the Covid19 second wave is “nothing short of a grave calamity” and the direct result of the central government’s “willful disregard of scientific advice, its premature declaration of victory over the pandemic and its unwillingness and inability to plan in advance.”The party said that while vaccine supplies are grossly insufficient, the Centre has “passed on the financial responsibility for vaccinating the 18-44 year population to the State governments, which are already facing severe financial stress.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-to-remain-congress-chief-as-party-defers-polls-amid-pandemic-101620672079694.html
11-05-2021||India||11 die in Tirupati hospital after oxygen supply disrupted for 5 minutes: Official||Eleven Covid-19 patients died on Monday evening due to disruption in oxygen supply at the state-run Sri Venkateswara Ramnarain Ruia Hospital (SVRR) in Andhra Pradesh’s Chittoor district on Monday evening, officials said.Chittoor district collector M Harinarayanan said there was disruption in supply of oxygen for about 5-10 minutes due to a delay in arrival of an oxygen tanker from Sriperumbudur in Tamil Nadu to the SVRR hospital.“Soon after the arrival of the tanker at the hospital, the oxygen supply was restored, but by that time, 11 persons undergoing treatment for Covid-19 died of asphyxiation. We could prevent further loss of lives due to timely restoration of oxygen supply,” the collector said.Nearly 1,000 patients are undergoing treatment at the hospital and the disruption of oxygen supply led to loss of severe respiratory distress for several patients. The doctors could save the lives of some patients by cardio-pulmonary resuscitation (CPR) and also by pressing oxygen compressors into service.Angry attendants of the patients who died went on a rampage soon after, vandalising the hospital and forcing doctors and nursing staff to run for safety.Senior district officials rushed to the hospital to bring the situation under control.Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy expressed shock and grief over the tragedy in SVRR Hospital in Tirupati. He expressed condolences to the families of the victims.The chief minister has called for a comprehensive probe into the incident and directed state officials to ensure that such a situation did not recur in any of the hospitals in the state. He told hospital and health department officials to continuously monitor the oxygen continuously and see to it that there was no shortage of oxygen in any of the hospitals.Telugu Desam Party president and former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu also expressed shock over the incident and demanded stringent action against the officials responsible for the tragic deaths. Naidu also lashed out at the Jagan government, insisting that he did not show interest in ensuring sufficient infrastructure in the hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/11-die-in-tirupati-hospital-after-oxygen-supply-disrupted-for-5-minutes-official-101620671405651.html
11-05-2021||India||MHA grants central security cover to all BJP MLAs in Bengal||The Centre on Monday accorded ‘X’ category VIP security cover of Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) to 61 Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLAs in West Bengal in view of the alleged violence against party leaders and workers in the state, people familiar with the development said.With this decision, all newly elected 77 MLAs of BJP in the 294-seat assembly are now being provided security cover by the central forces.Leader of opposition in the state, Suvendu Adhikari, who defeated chief minister Mamata Banerjee from Nandigram, already has a second highest ‘Z’ category security cover from the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF).Officials cited above said the ministry of home affairs (MHA) approved the security cover for 61 MLAs, who had no protection till now, after taking into consideration a report prepared by intelligence agencies as well as the inputs shared by the four-member team that visited the state last week to assess post-poll violence there.At least 16 people were killed in violence that rocked West Bengal after Trinamool Congress won a thumping victory in the assembly polls last Sunday. BJP claimed many of its party workers were killed by TMC goons and hundreds of others had to flee as party offices were torched and family members attacked.Also read | BJP picks Suvendu Adhikari as Bengal leader of OppositionTMC has claimed that BJP leaders provoked the violence and shared fake information. West Bengal Police has said some reports of rape and violence were untrue.Under the ‘X’ category cover, three-to-five armed commandoes will protect each MLA wherever they travel in the state. Others are already enjoying the central security cover under the next category of ‘Y’, which comprises of 10-12 men.“We had requested the home minister to provide security to our 77 MLAs as they were not able to travel anywhere, including their constituencies to their work. If the violence goes down, then they can rethink (the security cover) but for now we need this,” said BJP leader Kailash Vijayvargiya.“Security cover is required not just for our MLAs but for people across Bengal...incidents of assault, arson and loot are taking place every day. Women are being raped and molested,” said Bengal BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya.TMC leader Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar said – “Narendra and Amit [first names only, since they do the same to women politicians] ran a vile and filthy campaign. They should answer your question”.Another TMC leader said on condition of anonymity that the real reason was discontent among BJP legislators. “The BJP feels that the MLAs are very unhappy with Suvendu Adhikari being the leader of opposition,” the leader claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-grants-central-security-cover-to-all-bjp-mlas-in-bengal-101620671661678.html
11-05-2021||India||No post-poll violence after May 8, Bengal govt tells HC||The West Bengal government on Monday told the Calcutta high court that not a single incident of post-poll violence has been reported in the state after May 8.Earlier, Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee had told media on May 6, a day after she took oath as the chief minister of West Bengal, that 16 people were killed in post-poll violence.“The state in its affidavit to the Calcutta high court has submitted that not a single incident of violence has been reported in the state,” said Anindya Sundar Das, who filed a PIL in the high court on May 6, highlighting post poll violence and alleged inaction of the police.The HC on Friday had set up a five-judge bench headed by acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal to hear a PIL related to post-poll violence in West Bengal. The court had directed the state to file an affidavit on Monday specifying the areas where violence took place and the steps taken by the state government.Also read | MHA grants central security cover to all BJP MLAs in BengalMeanwhile, Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, who had expressed displeasure for not receiving any report from the state on post-poll violence, told the media on Monday that he would be visiting the places in the state where violence had erupted.“Post-poll retributive violence, acts of arson, loot now have graduated into intimidation and extortion. This is very worrisome. I have therefore decided to visit the affected parts in the state as part of my Constitutional duty. I indicated to the state government to make arrangements. Unfortunately, their response has not been very responsive to the situation,” said Dhankhar.Meanwhile, a team sent by the Union home ministry, to take stock of the post-poll violence that had rocked the state soon after election results were announced on May 2, was also camping in the state.On Monday, chief minister Banerjee took a dig at the team sent by the Union home ministry saying it was only visiting houses of BJP workers and supporters.“Law and order is a state subject. Why is the central team visiting villages and triggering tension? It is fine that they came and met the chief secretary. But why would they visit houses of BJP workers and supporters? Did they visit the house that belongs to workers and supporters of TMC or any other party? Half of the people who died were TMC men,” Banerjee said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-post-poll-violence-after-may-8-bengal-govt-tells-hc-101620671599612.html
11-05-2021||India||BJP picks Suvendu Adhikari as Bengal leader of Opposition||Suvendu Adhikari, the Nandigram strongman who defeated his former mentor Mamata Banerjee in the recent assembly elections in West Bengal, will now face off against her as leader of the opposition in the state assembly .Adhikari joined the Bharatiya Janata Party in December, defecting from the Trinamool Congress, and his win in Nandigram was one of the few bright spots for the former in an election in which it hoped to win at least 200 seats and unseat Banerjee, but eventually ended up winning only 77.The TMC won 213, and while Banerjee, who lost to Adhikari by a margin of 1,900 votes demanded a recount, this was turned down by the Election Commission.Adhikari, who underwent training at Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) camps in his youth, started his career as a youth Congress leader before joining the TMC in 1998.“As leader of the opposition my first priority will be to carry out a movement to free Bengal of political violence and establish parliamentary democracy. The killings and arson must stop,” said Adhikari.Also read | 43-member Bengal cabinet takes oathHis reference is to a spate of violence that has swept the state, with TMC workers allegedly targetting the political opposition, primarily the BJP but also Left Front workers.BJP national vice-president Mukul Roy, one of the founder members of the TMC and now a BJP national vice-president, proposed Adhikari’s name for the post of leader of the opposition when the BJP’s newly elected legislators met at the party’s election office at Hastings in south Kolkata on Monday afternoon. Of the 77 BJP MLAs, 52 were present at the meeting while the rest were in their constituencies in the districts.Since Roy is senior to Adhikari and he won the polls from Krishnanagar in Nadia district, many leaders in the party thought he would be elected leader of the opposition. But Roy brushed aside the speculations, saying, “I am too old.” Roy is 67, and Adhikari, 51.“Twenty-two MLAs supported Suvendu Adhikari’s nomination. I asked the others if they wanted to propose any other name. Since there was no other nomination, Adhikari was unanimously elected leader of the BJP’s legislative party in the West Bengal assembly,” announced Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, who attended the meeting with the BJP’s central election observers.Manoj Tigga, who won the Natabari seat in north Bengal for the second time, was elected the BJP’s chief whip in the assembly.Asked why only 22 of the 52 BJP MLAs supported Adhikari’s nomination, BJP state president Dilip Ghosh said, “He was unanimously elected. Even those who are in the districts told us that they would accept the party’s decision.”TMC leaders declined comment on one of their former colleagues becoming leader of the opposition.Kolkata-based political science professor and poll analyst Udayan Bandopadhyay said, “Adhikari joined the BJP five months ago. His becoming leader of the opposition may demoralise many leaders (in the BJP) who worked hard for years and helped the party grow in Bengal.”Adhikari became a legislator for the first time in 2006 and was later elected to the Lok Sabha. He was also made president of the TMC’s youth wing but Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee replaced him in 2014. His younger brother Dibyendu Adhikari is the TMC’s Lok Sabha member from Tamluk. The youngest sibling, Soumendu, headed the Contai civic body before joining the BJP in January.Polls were held in 292 of Bengal’s 294 assembly seats. Polls at two seats in Murshidababd district will be held later as two candidates died of Covid-19 during the polls, held in eight phases between March 27 and April 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjppicks-suvendu-adhikari-as-bengal-leader-of-opposition-101620671539599.html
11-05-2021||India||43-member Bengal cabinet takes oath||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee retained six portfolios for herself while inducting 20 new faces on Monday in the 43-member cabinet for her third stint in office.Banerjee retained some of the most important portfolios such as home and hills affairs, health and family welfare, land and land reforms, personnel and administrative reforms and information and cultural affairs, among others.“We have inducted 20 new ministers in the cabinet. There are nine women ministers (including Banerjee herself), seven ministers representing the minority community and four each from the SC and ST communities,” Banerjee said.While the ruling Trinamool Congress returned to power for the third time with a thumping victory, winning 213 of the 292 seats that went to the polls in the 294-member state assembly, party supremo Banerjee lost to her protégé-turned-adversary Suvendu Adhikari by fewer than 2,000 votes at Nandigram in East Midnapore district.Soon after distributing the berths, Banerjee held the first cabinet meeting and hinted that her government prefers not to impose a lockdown despite a sharp rise in Covid-19 cases.“We have imposed multiple restrictions. Without imposing a total lockdown, I would urge people to behave as if there is a lockdown. If you impose a total lockdown then people won’t be able to earn a living. There are many poor people who depend on daily wages,” she said.On Banerjee’s team are 24 ministers of cabinet rank, 10 ministers of state with independent charge, and nine other ministers of state.Also read | Centre brings all 77 BJP MLAs in West Bengal under VIP security coverAmong the new ministers sworn in was former finance minister Amit Mitra. Even though he didn’t contest the elections because of his poor health, he was sworn in as finance minister. Among the new faces given ministerial berths were former IPS officer Humayun Kabir and ex-cricketer Manoj Tiwari.Though the TMC had fielded several Tollywood actors and nearly all of them won, none were inducted in the cabinet.The chief minister also made some important changes in the cabinet. Jyotipriyo Mullick who was the former food and supplies minister was made the forest and renewable sources minister. It was during Mullick’s tenure that the TMC had to face allegations of a ration scam.Firhad Hakim who was the former mayor of Kolkata and at the same time looked after the urban development department was given transport and housing, while minister of state for health Chandrima Bhattacharya was given the additional charge of urban development. Bratya Basu was returned the ministries of school and higher education.Adhikari, on his part, said the BJP’s priority was ensuring peace in the state.“As the main opposition party in the assembly our first priority would be to ensure that there is no violence and to establish democracy. We would attend the sessions and raise our voice against injustice and torture,” said Adhikari, after being chosen as the leader of the opposition in the assembly.For the first time, the Bengal assembly doesn’t have anyone from the Congress and the Left Front, projecting a bipartisan shade of political representation that was unthinkable in the state till 10 years ago.The chief minister, however, said: “Nothing has happened in Bengal. Bengal is peaceful. There was only one genocide which took place at Sitalkuchi (where central forces had shot dead for persons).”Later in the day, Banerjee also held a meeting with religious leaders, market associations and puja committees while urging them to issue public statements, advising people to follow Covid-19 protocols during festive seasons.While Eid is scheduled later this week, members of the Calcutta Khilafat Committee have decided not to hold prayers on Red Road, which usually witnesses a gathering of more than 200,000 people on the festival. The state has put on a cap of 50 people on religious and cultural gatherings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/43member-bengal-cabinet-takes-oath-101620671479585.html
11-05-2021||NA||Highlights: Sri Lanka to observe inter-provincial travel curbs amid Covid surge||India, battling the world's worst outbreak of the deadly virus witnessed 366,161 new infections in the previous 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry dashboard. The new cases took the active caseload of the country to over 3.74 million (3,745,237) and death toll to 246,116.The continued surge in infections led several state governments to extend their lockdown-like measures to break the chain of transmission. Delhi and Uttar Pradesh extended the lockdown till May 17 with stricter measures. Karnataka on Monday will enter a total lockdown, which will continue till May 24.Globally, the virus has affected the lives of more than 158 million people, while 3,288,638 lives have been lost due to the disease so far, as per the John Hopkins University Covid-19 tracker. Germany is reporting a continuous decline in infections since last month. The seven-day incidence rate was less than 120 for the first time since April and the country is looking towards gradually loosening the restrictions, as per a Bloomberg report. The infection rate in Russia is also stabilising and hospitalisations due to the viral disease are at a seven-month low in the United States, according to the report. Spain celebrated as the state of national emergency ended at midnight due to the decline in the cases. The curbs were eased for restaurants, travelling between regions, and social gatherings, reported Bloomberg.Follow all the updates here:Punjab sees record jump in daily Covid-19 deaths at 198; 8,625 new cases addedPunjab on Monday saw record single day jump in deaths due to the Covid-19 disease at 198, which took the death toll to 10,704, according to the health department's bulletin. As many as 8,625 new cases were reported on Monday and the state's caseload has climbed to 450,674, the bulletin showed.Sri Lanka to observe inter-provincial travel curbs amid Covid surgeSri Lankan President Gotabaya Rajapaksa on Monday told authorities to impose inter-provincial travel curbs with immediate effect due to the surge in cases of the Covid-19 disease. The restrictions will be imposed till May 30, according to news agency PTI. Rajapaksa also said that all public gatherings and events should be cancelled.Nagaland adds 133 fresh Covid-19 cases; tally climbs to 16,283Nagaland's tally of the Covid-19 disease climbed to 16,283 after 133 fresh cases were added on Monday, health minister S Pangnyu Phom told news agency PTI. Ten people succumbed to the disease on Monday, taking the toll to 150, Phom added.Odisha to float global tender for procurement of Covid-19 vaccinesOdisha is all set to float global tenders for procurement of Covid-19 vaccines from leading manufacturers around the world. The decision was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by chief minister Naveen Patnaik. The state government has asked the Centre to exempt imported vaccines from all tax liabilities.Maharashtra records 37,236 new cases of Covid-19, lowest since March 30Maharashtra records 37,236 new cases of Covid-19 on Monday, taking the total tally of cases to 5,138,973, as testing continued to dip in the state. A total of 1,92,330 samples were tested for Covid-19 in Maharashtra on Monday, as against 2,47,466 samples tested on Sunday, 2,60,751 samples on Saturday and 2,68,912 on Friday. 549 deaths were also reported in the state, the death toll now stands at 76,398.Malaysia to be put under a month-long Covid lockdown starting WednesdayA month long lockdown will be imposed in Malaysia from Wednesday till June 7, the Malaysian Prime Minister told reporters on Monday. However, business will be allowed to operate under restrictions and with reduced capacities during the lockdown period, reported PTI.Chandigarh reports 863 new cases of Covid-19Chandigarh reported 863 new cases of Covid-19 on Monday. Taking the total number of active cases and positive cases to 8,653 and 51,070 respectively in the span of 24 hours, reported news agency ANI.Novavax's Covid-19 vaccine shows promising results in preclinical studyNovavax Inc's combined vaccine for influenza and Covid-19 has reportedly shown promising results in a preclinical study, reported Reuters on Monday.Indian variant of Covid-19 detected in ThailandThailand government said on Monday that the Indian variant of Covid-19 has been detected in a woman and her 4-year old son, both of whom had travelled to the country from Pakistan and were in quarantine, reported the Associated Press.Chandigarh extends 'Corona Curfew' by another weekChandigarh administration has decided to extend the ongoing corona curfew by another week, reported ANI. The night curfew is currently being implemented from 6 pm to 5 am, with movement being allowed in the day timeAndhra Pradesh reports 14,986 new Covid-19 cases, 84 deathsAndhra Pradesh reported 14,986 cases of Covid-19 on Monday, pushing the state-wide tally of active cases to 1,89,367. 84 deaths and 16,167 recoveries have also been reported in the same time span, reported ANI.Delhi deputy CM flags vaccine shortageDelhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said the govt ordered nearly 1.5 crore coronavirus vaccine doses, but received around 3.5 lakh doses only. Sisodia also criticised the Union govt for exporting vaccines while the country experiences a brutal second wave of Covid-19.Delhi records 12,651 new Covid-19 cases, 319 deathsDelhi recorded 12,651 new cases of Covid-19 on Monday, taking the total tally of cases to 13,36,218. 319 deaths were also reported in the last 24 hours, the death toll now stands at 19,663.Sri Lanka records highest number of cases since onset of pandemicSri Lanka recorded 2600 new cases on Sunday, its highest ever single-day spike since the pandemic started last year. All public gatherings have been stopped in the state till May 20, reported PTI.Russia reports 8,465 new Covid-19 cases, tally climbs to over 4.8 millionRussia reported 8,465 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the last 24 hours on Monday. The national tally reached more than 4.88 million, reported Reuters.Uttarakhand starts vaccinating people aged 18-44 Uttarakhand launched the next phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive covering individuals aged 18-44 on Monday, reported PTI. Chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat told reporters that 50,00,000 youth will be covered under the third phase of vaccination in the state.Puducherry CM N Rangasamy tests positive for Covid-19Puducherry CM N Rangasamy tested positive for COVID19 and is currently receiving treatment at a private hospital in Chennai. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan inquired about his health wished him speedy recovery: LG Secretariat, Puducherry pic.twitter.com/aFTomWKsSEKerala receives 350,000 doses of Covishield vaccineKerala | The first batch of 3.5 lakh doses of Covishield vaccine arrived at Kochi airport from Pune around 12 noon today: Airport authorities pic.twitter.com/HPxAaQE1ReSocial distancing norms flouted in Covid-19 vaccination centre in AmritsarPunjab | People flout social distancing norms at COVID-19 vaccination centre in Amritsar"I was afraid of contracting the virus inside the vaccination centre as people are not following social distancing norms," says a local pic.twitter.com/OgniCwdNaLOver 18 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses provided to states/UTs so far: Centre#IndiaFightsCorona:📍Government of India has so far provided more than 18 crore vaccine doses to States/UTs Free of Cost(As on 10th May, 2021, 8:00 am)➡️ Over 9 Lakh doses, in addition, will be received by the states/UTs in the next 3 days#We4Vaccine #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/ikFmp6NIFg20 people detected with Indian Covid-19 variant in France, says health ministerAround 20 people in France have been detected with the variant of Covid-19 first found in India, a Reuters report quoted French health minister Olivier Veran as saying on Monday.Andaman and Nicobar Islands logs 26 new Covid-19 casesAndaman and Nicobar Islands reported 26 new Covid-19 cases in the past 24 hours pushing the tally to 6,367. Two new deaths due to the virus rose the death toll to 76, PTI quoted a health department official as saying. 73 test positive for Covid-19 in Mizoram, including 19 childrenMizoram reported 73 fresh Covid- 19 cases on Monday. Of 73 people found to be positive over 19 were children. The state's tally stands at 7,623, PTI quoted an official as saying.Arunachal Pradesh logs 119 new Covid-19 casesArunachal Pradesh reported 119 new Covid-19 cases, pushing the coronavirus disease tally in the state to 20,165, PTI quoted a health department official as saying.Odisha reports 10,031 new Covid-19 casesOdisha reported 10,031 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the state's active caseload to 94,760, as per an ANI report.India reports 366,161 new Covid-19 cases, 3,754 deathsIndia on Monday reported 366,161 new Covid-19 cases and 3,754 deaths. The country's tally now stands at 22,662,575, according to the Union health ministry data.Maharashtra: Thane logs 1,752 new Covid-19 casesThane in Maharashtra reported1,752 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, raising the infection count in the district to 4,88,779, PTI quoted an official as saying.Ladakh reports 138 new Covid-19 cases, tally climbs to 15,317Ladakh reported 138 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 15,317. Two more fatalities pushed the death toll due to the viral disease to 155 in the Union Territory, PTI quoted the officials as saying.Uttarakhand imposes 8-day 'Covid curfew' from May 11 to 18'COVID curfew to be imposed in Uttarakhand from 6am on May 11 till 6am on May 18; shops selling fruits, vegetables, dairy items to remain open from 7am-10am, shopping malls, market complexes, gyms, theatres, assembly halls, bars, liquor shops to remain closed until further orders pic.twitter.com/nRC9GdRQmoBrazil reports 1,024 new Covid-19 fatalities Brazil reported 1,024 more deaths from the novel coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The national death toll of the country reached to 422,340 after new fatalities, according to the health ministry, reported ANI.China reports 11 new Covid-19 casesChina reported 11 new Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 90,769, the national health authority, reported Reuters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-covid-19-india-world-death-toll-may-10-2021-101620610391718.html
11-05-2021||India||Bodies found floating in Yamuna in UP’s Hamirpur: Cops||Amid a severe wave of Covid-19 infections in Uttar pradesh, several unidentified and partially burnt bodies were spotted floating in the Yamuna river in Hamirpur, according to residents of the town who alerted the police. Two bodies were partially burnt, police said on Sunday.Anoop Singh, the additional Superintendent of Police, Hamirpur, said that many families instead of burning the mortal remains of their dead kin preferred to immerse them in the river as the last rites. He said they were looking into the matter and were also in contact with the police of Kanpur Outer and Kanpur Dehat. “Two of the bodies were partially burnt. We have informed the two districts and have also stepped up vigil in our area,” he added.“In the second wave of the pandemic, people have died in large numbers in villages and people out of fear are not helping one another. In such a scenario, they are dumping their dead into the rivers,” said Dinesh Nigam, the councillor from Maudaha, Hamirpur Nagar Palika.On Thursday, some passers-by spotted over a dozen bodies floating in the river and informed police control room. Meanwhile, an investigation was underway and efforts were on to establish the identities of the deceased.The state recorded 23,175 fresh Covid-19 infections and 294 fatalities on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bodies-found-floating-in-yamuna-in-up-s-hamirpur-cops-101620584714442.html
11-05-2021||India||More than 5,000 soldiers battle Covid-19 in hospitals, 5-fold jump in 3 weeks||More than 5,000 soldiers from the three services are currently undergoing treatment for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in military hospitals across the country, almost a five-fold jump in hospital admissions in three weeks after the second wave of infections tightened its grip on the country, according to official figures accessed by Hindustan Times. The cases under hospitalisation in the military increased from 1,067 on April 18 to 5,134 on May 10, reflecting, to some extent, the wider national trend of a surge in Covid-19 infections. To be sure, the armed forces have done a better job than others in checking the transmission of the virus and keeping the mortality rate exceptionally low by adhering to strict Covid protocols --- 133 deaths of serving soldiers have been reported since the pandemic broke out last year (including 17 in the three weeks cited above). The figures show that the cumulative number of soldiers discharged from military hospitals after being treated for the disease after the first outbreak in 2020 stands at 45,413 (as of May 10, 2021). Almost all soldiers in the armed forces have been fully vaccinated against the coronavirus disease. Veterans suffering from Covid-19 also account for a considerable load at military hospitals. As many as 1,814 ex-servicemen are currently being treated at these hospitals, compared to 356 three weeks ago. At 1,027, the cumulative veteran deaths outnumber the serving fatalities - 44 veterans died on May 9 alone compared to a single serving soldier, a subedar. Military hospitals have discharged 5,242 veterans after treatment since last year. There are more than 3.2 million ex-servicemen in the country. Dependents of serving soldiers and ex-servicemen are also battling Covid-19 in military hospitals. As many as 3,662 dependents of serving soldiers and 1,439 dependents of veterans were undergoing treatment in military hospitals as of May 10, compared to April 18 figures of 667 and 166, respectively. The cumulative number of dependents in both categories discharged after treatment since last year stands at 11,820. Dependent deaths add up to 2,094. Dependents include spouses, sons (till the age of 25 or when they start earning, whichever is earlier), unmarried/divorced daughters, parents with a monthly income of less than ₹9,000 and special children for life. The number of military dependents in India is around 2.3 million. Taken together, as many as 12,049 soldiers, ex-servicemen and both their dependents are currently in military hospitals for treatment, with the cumulative death figure since last year being 2,611. In all, military hospitals admitted a total of 77,135 soldiers, veterans and their dependents over the last 14 months and discharged 63,631 patients. Civilians are also being treated at military hospitals and currently account for 448 admissions, up from 71 three weeks ago. The hospitals have recorded 177 civilian deaths since last year. While catering to the health needs of serving soldiers, veterans and their dependents, the military is also operating in full battle mode for national Covid-19 relief and foresees a bigger role for itself in the coming weeks and months to help civilian authorities tackle the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-than-5-000-soldiers-battle-covid-19-in-hospitals-5-fold-jump-in-3-weeks-101620754048074.html
11-05-2021||India||Odisha govt to set up Covid testing labs at 16 district headquarters||Odisha government on Tuesday informed that it would set up RT-PCR Covid-19 testing laboratories at 16 district headquarters.Chief minister Naveen Patnaik has sanctioned ₹20 crore for these Covid testing labs.These testing laboratories will be set up in Bhadrak, Boudh, Dhenkanal Gajapati, Khordha Jagatsinghpur, Jajpur, Kendrapada, Nabarangpur, Malkangiri, Nuapada, Sonpur, Kandhamal, Sundargarh, Rayagada and Bargarh districts of the state.A four-member team including one microbiologist and tree lab technician will be engaged in each facility for testing purposes.According to the state health department, Odisha registered as many as 9,793 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours. The state also reported 9,706 recoveries and 18 related deaths in the same duration.The total tally of Covid cases in Odisha now stands at 5,54,666. 4,57,569 people have recovered and 2,215 have succumbed to the virus so far in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-govt-to-set-up-covid-testing-labs-at-16-district-headquarters-101620753073370.html
11-05-2021||India||Japan, UNDP to provide 8 oxygen-generation plants to NE: Union minister||Union minister Jitendra Singh on Tuesday said Japan and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) have partnered to provide eight oxygen-generation plants to ensure an uninterrupted supply of the life-saving gas at hospitals in the northeast.These plants will support over 1,300 hospital beds across the region, he said.Singh, the Minister of State for the Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), said all the eight northeastern states are pro-actively assisted by the Centre to fight the second wave of Covid-19 effectively.Chairing a review meeting with the chief secretaries, health secretaries, planning secretaries of the northeastern states and central government officers on Covid preparedness, he informed that Japan and the UNDP have partnered to provide eight oxygen-generation plants to ensure an uninterrupted supply of the life-saving gas at hospitals in the northeast, according to an official statement.Singh also assured the states that they will get their fair share from the foreign aid India is receiving and that all attempts will be made to ensure that they are not left behind in the fight against the coronavirus.He said the fund of ₹369 crore disbursed last year for 14 health and Covid-related projects had significantly helped to ramp up the health infrastructure, including the purchase of new equipment, and now, all the states are better prepared to fight the pandemic, according to the statement issued by the Ministry of DoNER.Taking note of the fact that all the states are getting severely affected by the pandemic compared to the first wave, the minister asked the northeastern states to send health-related proposals at the earliest and promised to process them on priority basis in the ministry, it said.He also instructed the senior officials of the ministry to coordinate with health, railways and other relevant ministries at the Centre to fulfil the demands of the northeastern states.Singh said almost all the states have flagged off issues such as a shortage of oxygen, vaccines and essential drugs like Remdesivir and assured them that he will personally take up these matters with the Union health minister.At the same time, he appealed to people not to hoard oxygen and essential drugs as a precaution and not to panic.Singh also underlined the need for community management of the pandemic by roping in youngsters, the civil society, religious heads and women self-help groups to create awareness among the public.He also recalled that in the early days of lockdown-1 last year, the Ministry of DoNER had stepped in pre-emptively and placed an amount of ₹25 crore at the disposal of the northeastern states for preparatory steps to tackle the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/japan-undp-to-provide-8-oxygen-generation-plants-to-ne-union-minister-101620738571914.html
11-05-2021||India||Chinese loan app cases: ED attaches over ₹76-cr assets||The ED has attached assets of over ₹76 crore, including of some fintech companies "controlled" by Chinese nationals and fintech major Razorpay, as part of a money laundering probe against certain Chinese 'loan app' companies whose bullying tactics are alleged to have forced many debtors to end their lives during the stressful times of Covid-19.The central probe agency said in a statement that its criminal investigation, under provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), is based on multiple FIRs filed by the criminal investigation department (CID) Police in Bengaluru after they received "complaints from various customers, who had availed loans and faced harassment from the recovery agents of these money lending companies".Numerous reports of blackmail and extortion by these "loan sharks" leading to death by suicide of gullible debtors were reported last year after the coronavirus infection and the resulting lockdown began in the country. This is the first case of criminal attachment of assets by the ED in these instances which is probing some other cases of this nature in other states too.The amount attached by the Enforcement Directorate (ED), the statement said, "pertains to seven companies out of which three are fintech (financial technology) companies namely Mad Elephant Network Technology Private Limited, Baryonyx Technology Private Limited and Cloud Atlas Future Technology Private Limited which are controlled by Chinese nationals and three NBFCs (non banking financial companies) registered with RBI."The NBFCs are X10 Financial Services Private Limited, Track Fin-ed Private Limited and Jamnadas Morarjee Finance Private Limited, the ED said.It said the fintech companies have "agreement" with respective NBFCs for disbursement of loans through digital lending apps. "The amount attached by ED also includes an amount of fee charged by Razorpay Software Private Limited to the extent of ₹86.44 lakh for not conducting due diligence in case of one company enrolled with it for disbursement and collection of loans," it alleged.The total amount of properties attached as part of the latest provisional order issued under the PMLA is ₹76.67 crore and some Indians are also under the scanner of the ED in these cases.The agency said its probe found that Chinese loan apps "offered loans to individuals and levied usurious rate of interest and processing fees." "The loan apps through their recovery agents resorted to systematic abuse, harassment and threatening the defaulters through call centers for coercive recovery of the loans by obtaining sensitive data of the user stored on mobilephones such as contacts, photographs and using them to defame or blackmail the borrower," the ED said. It said that the people behind these loan apps "even threatened the borrowers by sending fake legal notices to their relatives and family members."ED said this money-lending business being run by these fintech companies was illegal or "not authorised" under any law."These NBFCs knowingly let these fintech companies use their names for the sake of getting commission without being careful about the conduct of these fintech companies in dealing with the customers who are vulnerable section of the society and are in dire need of funds due to the prevailing pandemic (Covid-19) situation.""This is also a violation of the fair practices code of the RBI," it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chinese-loan-app-cases-ed-attaches-over-rs-76-cr-assets-101620749989433.html
11-05-2021||India||26 deaths at Goa Medical College in 4 hours. Health minister pushes for HC probe||Twenty six patients being treated for Covid 19 at the Goa Medical College and Hospital died between 2am and 6am on Tuesday, Goa health minister Vishwajit Rane said on Tuesday, pushing for a probe by the high court into the early morning deaths at the state-run hospital. “I think there needs to be an inquiry into this (deaths)... it would also be fine if the high court inquires into this,” Vishwajit Rane told reporters hours after chief minister Pramod Sawant visited the hospital to assess the gaps. The government needs the high court’s approval before a probe by a judge, sitting or retired, can get off the ground.“We are facing a shortage of oxygen. Yesterday we required 1,200 cylinders of oxygen but we got only 400. Because of interrupted oxygen supply, I think somewhere between the hours 2am to 6am, there are a lot of deaths happening. Even today between 2am to 6am, there were around 26 deaths,” Rane said.Goa recorded 75 deaths of Covid-19 patients on Tuesday, the highest single day toll since the onset of pandemic. The state also recorded 3,124 new cases, at a positivity rate of 37%, the health department said.Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant said the logistics of maintaining a steady supply of cylinders rather than availability of medical oxygen appeared to be the primary problem. Sawant, who interacted with doctors, health workers and patients, promised to streamline the logistical issues involved in not just getting the cylinders, but also replacing them before they run out of oxygen.The hospital, which is dealing with patients up to three times its capacity, treats many of its patients lying on stretchers or on the floor because there aren’t enough beds. While patients on beds are supplied oxygen using the central piping system, the others are given oxygen supply through cylinders that need to be replaced and refilled.This is where there is a problem. If the cylinder is not replaced on time, it results in a drop in oxygen level of patients and a deterioration in their condition. On Monday night, SOS messages were sent out claiming that the oxygen cylinders were running low and there was no one to change them.Sawant said there was “some mismanagement”.“Cylinders have to be taken to the wards, the housekeeping. There needs to be a person in charge (of oxygen cylinders) for each ward. This cannot be left to nurses. Oxygen is there, but it doesn’t reach the wards/patients. We will streamline the process of ensuring that the supply is adequate. We will allocate the work properly,” Sawant said.“We have oxygen, but if the cylinder is not where it needs to be then it might as well be said that there is no oxygen,” Sawant added. Congress leader Sunil Kawthankar said the government wasn’t serious enough about the challenge at hand.“Since 12.30 am, people in GMC Ward 147 were told oxygen would arrive in 10 minutes only to arrive past 4am. That too, just four cylinders. How are patients supposed to survive those several hours in between? Surprised how even after so many deaths health authorities are okay with ‘favourite oxygen suppliers’ slow mode of transportation using tractor trolleys and how still no arrangements for adequate oxygen is made. Are the lives of people so cheap? That the authorities can sleep over calmly when innocent lives are lost,” Sunil Kawthankar, a Congress leader, who has also been coordinating relief efforts, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/26-deaths-at-goa-medical-college-in-4-hours-health-minister-pushes-for-hc-probe-101620752309311.html
11-05-2021||India||HC pulls up Karnataka govt over availability of second dose of vaccine||The Karnataka High Court on Tuesday pulled up the state and Central government on its plans to provide the second dose of the Covid-19 vaccines for those above the age of 45 years, HT has learnt.The HC bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar subsequently ordered the state to come out with a road map for completing vaccinations. “We hope and trust that if both the governments don’t take serious note of the desperate situation of vaccination and if a greater number of vaccinations are not procured, the very object of vaccination will be frustrated. It may have a cascading effect,” the order said. During the proceedings, the Karnataka government informed the Court that it is stopping the first dose, to provide second doses to those above the age of 45 years. However, the court quoting numbers questioned the availability of the vaccines. “Only 9 lakh doses available. 16 lakh people need a second dose immediately. Forget about the 18-44 age group. They can’t even give a second dose. For people above 45 years, how will state give the second dose,” the bench pointed out. The bench further added that the second dose of Covaxin should be taken within four weeks while asking about the implications of the delay in giving the second dose. “As per the target of 1.71 crores, 72 lakh have been given first dose and over 11 lakh given the second dose. Hence, it is obvious that if the present scenario continues, the first dose cannot be given to front-line workers and 18-44 years… If the present scenario continues, the entire vaccination drive will be completely ineffective,” the bench said.Talking about the availability of oxygen, the court also pointed out that despite the Centre telling the court that the state’s oxygen quota is being increased from 965 MT to 1200 MT, no document has been placed on record to prove this said allocation. “The Court, therefore, proceeded to direct the state government to place on record its daily requirement of oxygen from May 5 till May 11 and quantum of oxygen actually procured. The state government should also place on record projected requirement of state for at least for 1 week from tomorrow (Wednesday),” the HC direct. The court also observed the incidents of the police excesses that were reported on the first day of the second lockdown. “Police excesses should be avoided, and people must co-operate with the government. If people are not cooperating, take them to the nearest police station,” said the bench.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-pulls-up-karnataka-govt-over-availability-of-second-dose-of-vaccine-101620751107623.html
11-05-2021||India||'2nd Covid-19 wave may have flattened but...': Virologist Shahid Jameel warns||India’s second Covid-19 wave seems to have flattened but the climb down will be a more prolonged, long drawn-out process than the first and will possibly run till July, eminent virologist Shahid Jameel said here on Tuesday.Though the new variants of the virus may partly be responsible for the explosion in the number of cases, there is no indication the mutant versions are more lethal, added the director of the Trivedi School of Biosciences, Ashoka University, amid mounting worries about what is fuelling the second wave in India.Addressing an online event organised by the Indian Express, Jameel noted that it is a little too early to say if the Covid wave has peaked.“The curve may have flattened but the other side of the peak is not going to be an easy climb down. It's possibly going to be a more prolonged long-drawn-out process running possibly till July, That means, even if the curve starts to decline, we will continue to have to deal with a large number of infections every day,” Jameel said. According to the scientist, Covid-19 cases in the second wave also won’t come down in as steady a fashion as they did after the first wave. Read more: Amplify govt message on Covid-19: Centre tells states“In the first wave, we did see a steady decline. But remember… this time we are starting from a higher number. Instead of 96,000-97,000 cases, we are starting from over 400,000. So it will take that much longer. And during the process at every time point, you'll have a lot of cases,” Jameel explained.In his view, the actual mortality data for India is completely wrong. “… not because of some evil design of someone or a group of people or the state or whatever. But the way we record data I think is faulty.” Discussing why India faced a second wave, he said the constant narrative was that somehow Indians are special and have some special kind of immunity. “You know, we had BCG shots when we are children. We get a lot of malaria. So you get all sorts of arguments,” he said. The BCG vaccine is primarily used against tuberculosis.The noted virologist also said people gave opportunity to the virus not to just spread but also to transmit quickly by not adhering to Covid-19 protocols.Read more: Empowered groups on vaccine and oxgyen working since 2020: Cabinet Secretary“..by the time we came to December and the cases kept going down, we did start believing in this narrative (of immunity). There were a lot of big weddings that we had in January and February. So super spreading events happened,” he added.  He cited other "super spreading events", including elections rallies and religious congregations, for the high number of cases in the second wave. Vaccine coverage is a matter of concern in his view.Enough people, he said, did not get vaccinated when they had the opportunity in January and February.  “… around the third week of February when numbers started going up, we had very, very little vaccine coverage, possibly about 2 per cent of people,” Jameel said, adding that some people believed in the messaging that vaccines were not safe.“Vaccines are safe and the side effects are very rare. There are more chances of someone dying from lightning than due to rare side effects of vaccines.” Referring to the vaccine shortage in some states, he noted that all big countries that had vaccinated a considerable proportion of their population had booked their doses around June 2020. “India didn't do that. We did have a big vaccine enterprise but remember our biggest vaccine companies are private limited companies. You know, it's another story that going back a few years we closed down all our public vaccine enterprises. So we depend entirely on the private sector. “Private sector does not work on charity. The private sector needs to be given orders for them to be confident or, you know, building facilities to make vaccines. And that is where we took our eye off the ball,” he said. However, the virologist said funds have now been allotted to Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech and the Serum Institute of India, Pune, and both are expanding facilities. But it will take around July by the time vaccine supplies normalise. Calculations done during the first wave suggested that herd immunity may set in when about 65 per cent of the population gets infected or vaccinated. It no longer holds true, Jameel said. Herd immunity is a form of indirect protection that can occur when a sufficient percentage of a population has become immune to an infection, whether through vaccination or previous infections. However, for Covid-19, it is not known when such immunity will set in. “Now you have a virus that is moving at least twice as fast as thought, if not more. So what you need is you know, at least possibly 75 per cent of the population to be infected or vaccinated before we can achieve what you call herd immunity. So it's a shifting goal post right now. “ “And that is why it is so important for us to go and get vaccinated as soon as vaccines are available,” he added. The virologist also said India may possibly see many waves of Covid-19 pandemic depending upon the conditions at that time and the progress of the vaccination drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2nd-covid-19-wave-may-have-flattened-but-virologist-shahid-jameel-warns-101620750001402.html
11-05-2021||India||Amplify govt message on Covid-19, hold daily briefings at district level: Centre tells states||The Centre on Tuesday sent a directive to states and union territories to organise daily briefings on the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation at the district level. The decision was taken during a review meeting on public health response to Covid-19 to check the misinformation around it.The order has been sent to chief secretaries of the state by secretary, information and broadcasting Amit Khare, who also heads the empowered group working on communication."Since timely dissemination of correct information acts as a check on spread of misinformation and rumours/fake news, you may like to suitably advise the district collectors and senior officers of district administration in your state/UT to hold daily press briefings," the order said.It further said that the briefings will highlight "salient initiatives taken by the government and civil society/individuals"."This is crucial at this stage as the pandemic has spread its wings in the rural areas and correct information about the guidelines issued and steps taken by the government should reach the local people from trustworthy sources," the order said.The Centre's directive highlighted the regular briefings held by the ministry of information & broadcasting, which it said help in disseminating facts and latest information about the various aspects of the pandemic before the people.In another order, Khare also asked the chief secretaries to intensify awareness drive on Covid-19 with a focus on vaccination.He also said that various ministries of central government - like AYUSH, health, home and panchayati raj - have issued various advisories and guidelines in the wake of second wave of Covid-19. The order said that the messages and advisories need to be amplified to reach the last mile.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amplify-govt-message-on-covid-19-hold-daily-briefings-at-district-level-centre-tells-states-101620749528017.html
11-05-2021||India||Covid-19: DRDO to set up 7 medical oxygen plants in Odisha||To ensure the availability of medical oxygen for treatment of Covid-19 patients, the Defence Research and Development Organization (DRDO) has decided to set up seven medical oxygen plants in Odisha.The plants will come up at Boudh, Cuttack, Bhadrak, Gajapati, Jharsuguda, Nayagarh and Koraput districts, CGM of National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), Odisha, Ram Prasad Panda, said. The civil and electrical works of the plants will be done by the NHAI while the DRDO will look after the technical aspect, he said. The DRDO's move is a part of its massive drive under which it has decided to set up 500 medical oxygen plants in the country within three months with the help of its indigenous developed technology. Construction of the plants has already started in Boudh and Cuttack, Panda said. Once completed, each plant will generate 1,000 litres per minute (LPM) of oxygen and the life-saving gas will be supplied to hospitals through pipelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-drdo-to-set-up-7-medical-oxygen-plants-in-odisha-101620747387905.html
11-05-2021||India||Tamil Nadu logs 29,272 new Covid-19 cases, 298 related deaths||Tamil Nadu on Tuesday recorded 29,272 fresh Covid-19 cases in the single biggest day spike so far, pushing the caseload to 14,38,509 while 298 deaths in the last 24 hours took the toll to 16,178.According to a medical bulletin, 19,182 people were discharged today, taking the tally to 12,60,150, leaving 1,62,181 active infections.With an increase in new infections, Chief Minister M K Stalin appealed to the general public and industries to donate to the Chief Minister's Public Relief Fund to fight against the raging pandemic.The state capital accounted for 7,466 new infections, totaling 4,04,733 till date.The metropolis also leads in the number of fatalities with 5,368 deaths.The number of samples tested in the last 24 hours was at 1,56,111, pushing the cumulative number of specimens examined so far to 2,43,10,931.Besides Chennai, Chengalpet added 2,419 cases, Coimbatore 2,650, Thiruvallur 1,204 and Madurai 1,024, while the remaining 31 districts clocked new infections in triple digits.Among the 298 deceased, 78 were without comorbidities which include a 25-year old man from Coimbatore who succumbed to the virus due to 'cardio respiratory arrest'.As many as 25 people who tested positive Tuesday were returnees from other destinations.Meanwhile, in an official release, Stalin appealed to the general public and industries to donate generously to the Chief Minister's Public Relief Fund towards strengthening the health infrastructure with Covid-19 pandemic being virulent in the State.In a statement, he assured the funds received would be used only for stepping up medical infrastructure like ramping up production of medical oxygen production and storage facilities, purchasing of RT-PCR kits, life saving devices among others."The funds collected will be used only to fight the Covid-19 pandemic and the details related to the expenses made (through the funds generated) would be available on a public domain ensuring transparency," he said.The funds received would be 100 per cent tax exempted, he added.Earlier in the day, the chief minister inaugurated a SIDDHA Covid-19 Care facility at the A M Jain College in Meenambakkam in the city under the health department's plan to set up 14 such facilities across the State.The first Siddha Covid-19 Care Centre was recently inaugurated by medical minister Ma Subramanian at Vyasarpadi.The facilities would offer traditional SIDDHA food and herbal medicines to the Covid-19 patients who are under treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-logs-29-272-new-covid-19-cases-298-related-deaths-101620747765269.html
11-05-2021||India||Empowered groups on vaccine and oxygen working since 2020: Cabinet Secretary||At a meeting chaired by Cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba on Tuesday to review the Covid situation in the country, it was made quite evident that the groups of experts on vaccination and supply of liquid medical oxygen had been working since April 2020 and August 2020 respectively. This flies against opposition accusation that the Narendra Modi government was caught unawares by the rise in infection in the past month."We had an issue of Liquified Medical Oxgyen (LMO) during September 2020 due to rise in infection so we ramped up supply from 1,000 metric tonnes to 3,000 metric tonnes to cater to demand. This demand dropped to 1000 metric tonnes in February 2021 but last month we supply nearly 8,000 metric tonnes of oxygen to meet up the increased demand due to exponential increase in infection due to mutant virus," said a member who attended the meeting today.The cabinet secretary made it clear the the second doses of vaccine should be a priority to build effective immunity against the virus and that the states and UTs should minimise the wastage of vaccine. The meeting was attended by chief secretaries and health secretaries of all states and union territories (UTs).Gauba shared with states the work done by the national task force and experts' groups constituted by the Centre on crucial matters like improvement and augmentation of health infrastructure, research and production of vaccines, welfare of poor people and supply of oxygen.He also briefed the states on the action taken by the government of India in controlling the effect of the Covid-19 pandemic since last year.The cabinet secretary appreciated the work done in real-time by states and UTs to augment health infrastructure and informed them about the various advisories issued by Union health ministry and other ministries of government of India on home isolation and care of mild Covid-19 cases.He informed that Prime Minister Narendra Modi's active engagement with domestic industries for production and supply of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) since September last year has helped in resolving various logistics issues of its transport through land, water and air routes.Gauba emphasised the need of keeping the public informed about the action taken by the central and state governments and assured that no stone would be left unturned to provide timely oxygen supply and other medical resources to the hospitals.The cabinet secretary also expressed concern over misinformation on vaccination, saying that all vaccines that are procured either by the central government or the state governments are actually meant for the public and there is no consumption at the central level.Health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, who was also present at the meeting, urged the states and UTs to prioritise in terms of testing, intensive action and local containment of the pandemic, strengthening of hospital infrastructure, augmentation of human resources and rational utilisation of oxygen.Reiterating the judicious use of vaccines, he stressed upon the need for an awareness campaign on the importance of completion of both doses of vaccination, for better immunity.The secretary of Information and Broadcasting emphasised the importance of continuation of Covid appropriate behaviour and requested the states to spread awareness about it in the rural and tribal areas by involving the field- level functionaries like anganwadi and ASHA workers.The meeting comes on a day when India recorded a fall in daily cases of Covid-19. A total of 3,29,942 infections were reported in a span of 24 hours, according to Union health ministry data.After registering a steady rise for two months, the active cases reduced to 37,15,221 comprising 16.16 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 82.75 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/empowered-groups-on-vaccine-and-oxgyen-working-since-2020-cabinet-secretary-101620747806297.html
11-05-2021||India||Google adds vaccine info panels to search; Maps show hospital bed availability||Tech giant Google has made discovering vaccine-related information easier by carrying out a scope of updates across its different services.The aim of rolling out these features is to health authorities and affected groups find assistance quicker, as massive second wave of the pandemic sweeps the country.According to Mashable, to help in searching for vaccine information, Google Search will show the latest updates on vaccine safety, efficacy and side effects."You will also find information about prevention, self-care, and treatment under the Prevention and Treatment tab, in easy-to-understand language sourced from authorised medical sources and the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare," said the search giant in a blog post.In addition to the testing centres, people can also access the location of 23,000 vaccination centres nationwide in English and 8 other regional languages.Mashable detailed that another element has been added on Google Maps. The application will currently show a user if a hospital has beds and access to medical oxygen, based on crowd-sourced information. This data may not be right on target - yet it very well may be convenient detail for somebody hoping to get a friend or family member hospitalised close by.At the same time, Google Pay too has a COVID aid campaign. where the individuals who wish to donate to organisations that help COVID-influenced residents can do as such. A portion of the associations highlighted as a feature of this campaign include GiveIndia, Charities Aid Foundation, Goonj, Save the Children, Seeds, UNICEF India (National NGOs) and United Way."This campaign has raised over USD 4.6 million [INR 33 crore] to date and continues to generate much-needed support for relief efforts," it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/google-adds-vaccine-info-panels-to-search-maps-show-hospital-bed-availability-101620743664169.html
11-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Jagan Reddy urges PM to transfer Covaxin's technology and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Jagan Mohan Reddy asks PM Modi to transfer Covaxin’s technology to capable firmsAndhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday, urging him to direct Bharat Biotech to transfer vaccine manufacturing technology of Covaxin to those capable and willing to produce Covid-19 vaccines. Read MoreCloudburst in Uttarakhand's Tehri damages houses, shops: OfficialSevere damage was caused to buildings in Uttarakhand on Tuesday due to heavy rainfall triggered by a cloudburst which occurred in Tehri-Garhwal district. Read MoreSuspended cop Sachin Vaze dismissed from service, say Mumbai PoliceThe Mumbai Police said on Tuesday that Sachin Vaze, who is being investigated in connection with Mukesh Ambani security threat case, has been dismissed from service, news agency ANI reported. Read MoreMoody’s slashes India’s FY22 GDP forecast to 9.3% due to 2nd Covid-19 waveRating agency Moody’s Investor Service on Tuesday slashed India’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth forecast for the current financial year 2021-22 to 9.3 per cent from the projected 13.7 per cent. Read MoreHe came in place of Ravindra Jadeja and it never felt like Jadeja was out: Parthiv on India's strong squad for WTC finalFormer India cricketer Parthiv Patel is very confident that the Indian cricket team has a strong chance of winning the World Test Championship (WTC) title. Read MorePeople are posting hilarious comments to this tweet on mangoes and math problemsThere are lots of the people who dreaded math as a subject in school and probably still get nightmares about unfinished assignments and exams. Read MoreShweta Tiwari's industry friends express solidarity after watching 'inhuman' events in her latest postActor Shweta Tiwari's friends and colleagues from the industry have voiced their support for her amid her ongoing custody battle with estranged husband Abhinav Kohli. Read More'Role of Rahul Gandhi...': What BJP chief JP Nadda wrote to Sonia on CovidBharatiya Janata Party chief Jagat Prakash Nadda wrote a letter to his Indian National Congress party counterpart Sonia Gandhi on May 11. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-jagan-reddy-urges-pm-to-transfer-covaxin-s-technology-and-all-the-latest-news-101620744074488.html
11-05-2021||India||Farmers returning to protest sites after harvest season: Samyukta Kisan Morcha||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of over 40 farmer unions, on Tuesday said that farmers were returning to Singhu and Tikri border protest sites after finishing harvesting their crops.In a statement, the SKM said that large convoys of farmers arrived at the two border points on Monday and this will now continue."Yesterday, large convoys of farmers arrived on the Singhu border and Tikri border. Farmers were welcomed at many places on their way to these sites from Punjab. These farmers, who have travelled in tractors, cars and other vehicles, have made arrangements to live in tents and trolleys as they were living before harvesting," it said."The farmers' strike is getting stronger and the protest sites are also becoming larger. Farmers' tents, trolleys and other vehicles have been permanently there for the last five months in long queues. The pattern of farmers coming back after the harvesting season will now continue," it added.The farmers' outfit said that the government was "promoting privatisation" even at a time when "thousands of people have lost their lives due to the mismanagement of the public health system"."The government should increase investment in education, health and agriculture sectors. Along with taking guarantee of the purchase and remunerative price for the crops of the farmers, the government should make a law on MSP and repeal the three anti-farmer laws immediately," it said.Delhi reported 319 more Covid-19 fatalities and 12,651 new cases on Monday, with a positivity rate of 19.10 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-returning-to-protest-sites-after-harvest-season-samyukta-kisan-morcha-101620745102269.html
11-05-2021||India||Karnataka warns pharma majors of legal action for not supplying Remdesivir||The Karnataka government on Tuesday served notices to pharmaceutical majors Cipla and Jubilant warning them of legal proceedings for not supplying adequate quantities of Remdesivir injection bottles as directed by the Government of India.In a notice to the pharmaceutical companies, the Principal Secretary in the Revenue department N Manjunatha Prasad said they were ordered to deliver 62,000 vials of Remdesivir injection, but they supplied very less consignment.Cipla and Jubilant were ordered to supply 30,000 and 32,000 vials respectively by May 9. However, they supplied only 10,840 and 17,601 vials on May 8.The two companies failed to supply the requisite quantity as directed by the Government of India, which has severely impacted treatment of patients requiring Remdesivir vials in the state, the notices said.The companies have been asked to immediately fulfill the supply obligation of Remdesivir vials, as allotted by the Government of India to the state as of Tuesday within 24 hours of the receipt of the notice."Non-adherence or non-compliance of these directions by M/s Jubilant Limited and M/s Cipla Limited shall be liable to be proceeded under section 58 and 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 besides legal actions under relevant section 188 of the Indian Penal Code and other legal provisions as applicable," Prasad said in his order.Remdesivir injections are in high demand as it is vital for the Covid patients with severe lung infections.Many people have been arrested for selling the drug in black market at an exorbitant price.Police have also arrested a few who were selling fake Remdesivir injections to the needy at astronomical prices.With Covid infections surging, the demand for Remdesivir has sky-rocketed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-warns-pharma-majors-of-legal-action-for-not-supplying-remdesivir-101620745653157.html
11-05-2021||India||PM Modi calls off planned visit to UK to attend G7 Summit as special invitee||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has called off his visit to the UK to attend the G7 Summit as a special invitee because of the Covid-19 situation in the country, the external affairs ministry announced on Tuesday.UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson had invited Modi and the leaders of Australia, South Korea and South Africa as guests to the G7 Summit to be hosted by the UK in Cornwall during June 11-13. This would have been Modi’s second foreign visit this year, after a trip to Bangladesh in March to attend celebrations marking the 50th anniversary of the neighbouring country’s independence.“While appreciating the invitation to the prime minister by UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson to attend the G7 Summit as a special invitee, given the prevailing Covid situation, it has been decided that the prime minister will not attend the G7 Summit in person,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said.The move came days after Modi called off a planned visit to the Portuguese city of Porto to participate in the India-EU Summit on May 8. The meeting was subsequently held in a virtual format.External affairs minister S Jaishankar had visited the UK to attend the G7 foreign ministers meeting in London during May 3-5, but he and his delegation had to go into self-isolation after two members tested positive for Covid-19.The pandemic has also affected the schedule for bilateral visits between India and the UK this year. Johnson called off plans to visit India twice – he cancelled a trip that was to begin on April 25 following a surge in infections, and in January, he cancelled a trip to focus on his government’s response to a new Coronavirus variant that was spreading rapidly.Modi and Johnson held a virtual summit on May 4, during which they launched an Enhanced Trade Partnership and a Mobility and Migration Partnership and unveiled a roadmap to boost bilateral ties over the next decade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-calls-off-planned-visit-to-uk-to-attend-g7-summit-as-special-invitee-101620745527408.html
11-05-2021||India||‘Surrender. We will treat’, Dantewada SP tells Maoists on reports of 10 deaths||Chhattisgarh’s Dantewada police chief on Tuesday renewed the state’s appeal to Maoist cadres to surrender, saying 10 Maoists had died in south Bastar over the last fortnight, possibly due to Covid-19. There has been no statement from the Maoists on the 10 deaths claimed by the police but they have not rebutted the state police either.Dantewada superintendent of police Abhishek Pallava said the administration was worried that the infection could spread to villagers living deep inside the dense forests that cover 70% of the district.“Maoists are still in contact with villagers and holding meetings. hence it is worrying , if they are infected, they should surrender and avail treatment. Police will take care of their treatment,” said Pallava. Pallava said villagers had confirmed to the police that many Maoist cadres have cold, cough and fever, symptoms of the coronavirus disease and some senior colleagues are trying to arrange medicines and vaccines against the infection.The district police chief said there were intelligence reports that indicate some senior Maoist leaders in Chhattisgarh had also contracted the infection.“We have confirmed information that around 15 days ago, around 400-500 Maoists gathered in Pidia village close to the Bijapur-Sukma district border,” Pallava said, adding that the cadres who were unwell were reported to have consumed expired medicines. This event is being linked to the spread of the disease and was followed by cremation of 10 Maoists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/surrender-we-will-treat-dantewada-sp-tells-maoists-on-reports-of-10-deaths-101620743067055.html
11-05-2021||India||Covid-19: Japan to send 200 oxygen concentrators to India||Japan will send 200 oxygen concentrators to India as a part of the emergency assistance in response to the current surge of Covid-19 infections in the country."On May 12 and 13, 200 oxygen concentrators will be sent to India as a part of the emergency assistance from Japan to India in response to the current surge of Covid-19 infections in India," the Japanese foreign ministry said in a statement.Japan sent 100 oxygen concentrators to India on Saturday.On May 5, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar had a virtual meeting with his Japanese counterpart Toshimitsu Motegi.During the meeting, Motegi conveyed that Japan is ready to provide grant assistance of up to 50 million US dollars to India, based on the latter's needs.India is currently dealing with a second Covid-19 wave that has swept through the nation, straining the country's health infrastructure and overburdening frontline medical workers.Several countries around the globe including UK, Russia, and the US have extended support to India as it continues to struggle with the increase in its health infrastructure needs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-japan-to-send-200-oxygen-concentrators-to-india-101620739674942.html
11-05-2021||India||Suspended cop Sachin Vaze dismissed from service, say Mumbai Police||The Mumbai Police said on Tuesday that Sachin Vaze, who is being investigated in connection with Mukesh Ambani security threat case, has been dismissed from service, news agency ANI reported. Vaze is also being investigated in connection with the death of Thane businessman Mansukh Hiran, whose car was found with gelatin sticks near billionaire Mukesh Ambani's house Antilia in Mumbai.The order terminating Vaze's service was issued by Mumbai Police Commissioner Hemant Nagrale, said a spokesperson of the city police. And official said that the order has been issued under Provision of 311(2)(B) Constitution of India by Commissioner of Police, Greater Mumbai, which deals with dismissal, removal or reduction in rank of persons employed in civil capacities under the Union or a state on certain grounds.A 1990-batch officer of the Maharashtra cadre, Vaze (49) was suspended after his arrest by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on March 13. The NIA is probing both the cases.The Antilia case led to a political storm in Maharashtra, with Param Bir Singh, who was removed as Mumbai Police chief, accused state NCP leader Anil Deshmukh of asking Vaze to collect ₹100 crore from city pubs and hotels. Deshmukh resigned as Maharashtra home minister last month in the wake of the allegations and the Enforcement Directorate has registered money laundering case against him.Deshmukh has accused Singh of making false allegations against him. "When the NIA started investigating the matter (SUV-Hiran murder case), to avoid any hindrance I had transferred Singh from the post of Mumbai police commissioner. As a revenge for his transfer, Singh made false allegations against me," Deshmukh claimed last week.On February 25, a Mahindra Scorpio SUV owned by Hiran was found abandoned near Antilia with 20 loose gelatin sticks and a threatening note, and a case was registered with Gamdevi police station on the same day.Vaze was originally investigating the case, but was removed after reports emerged of his links with Hiran, who had reported it stolen on February 17. Hiran was found dead in a creek on March 5. It subsequently emerged that Vaze had borrowed the car in November and returned it on February 5.Apart from Vaze, the NIA has arrested his former colleague at CIU, assistant police inspector Riyazuddin Kazi, former policeman Vinayak Shinde and cricket bookie Naresh Ramniklal Gor in the case. The NIA has named Vaze as the main accused in both the cases.Vaze, now lodged in jail, was reinstated in the Mumbai Police in June 2020 after being suspended for 16 years in a case related to alleged custodial death of Khwaja Yunus, an accused in the Ghatkopar bomb blast of 2002.Post-reinstatement, he was appointed the head of the Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU), an elite branch of the Mumbai Crime Branch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suspended-mumbai-cop-sachin-vaze-dismissed-from-service-say-mumbai-police-101620740599209.html
11-05-2021||India||Jagan Mohan Reddy asks PM Modi to transfer Covaxin’s technology to capable firms||Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday, urging him to direct Bharat Biotech to transfer vaccine manufacturing technology of Covaxin to those capable and willing to produce Covid-19 vaccines, in order to help the country meet its vaccine demand. Reddy added that Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the National Institute of Virology (NIV) should provide the viral strain to all interested vaccine manufacturers.“We would request you to please direct Bharat Biotech to please do the technology transfer of manufacturing the Covaxin and ICMR-NIV to provide the viral strain to whoever interested and capable of producing the vaccine,” the chief minister wrote in the letter.Covaxin, India’s first indigenously developed Covid-19 vaccine, is a collaborative effort between Bharat Biotech and ICMR. It was developed using the SARS-CoV-2 strain, isolated in the NIV in Pune, which functions under ICMR. The ICMR and Bharat Biotech jointly carried out the clinical and pre-clinical trials in India.Reddy also requested the Prime Minister to transfer the Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) of Covaxin to vaccine manufacturers so production and inoculation both can be ramped up, as the present manufacturing capacity of Covaxin does not cater to the country's vaccination requirements."It may take several months to get all vaccinated at this pace. Please explore the possibility of involving all such production firms and enable them with the technology, intellectual property rights to deliver the vaccine as quickly and as affordable as possible," he wrote.Reddy’s letter comes on the heels of a similar suggestion made by Delhi chief minister on Tuesday in a letter to PM Modi, asking him to allow more companies to manufacture Covid-19 vaccines, adding that royalties can be paid to the current manufacturers for any use of their formulas. While Kejriwal urged the Centre to make formulas for both Covaxin and Covishield available, Reddy specifically talked about Covaxin in his letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jagan-mohan-reddy-asks-pm-modi-to-transfer-covaxin-s-technology-to-capable-firms-101620739810541.html
11-05-2021||India||Telangana junior doctors threaten strike if not given 15% pay hike as ‘promised’||Junior resident doctors in various government hospitals in Telangana have threatened to go on a strike after May 25 if their salaries are not hiked by 15% among other demands. Their association served a notice to this effect on the state medical and health department on Monday. “We have given two weeks’ time for the government to fulfil our demands which have been pending for over a year. We shall strike work after May 25 and boycott all services, including emergency medical services,” said Telangana Junior Doctors Association (TJUDA) president Vasari Naveen Reddy. The doctors’ decision comes at a time when the Telangana government has decided to impose a 10-day lockdown in the state starting May 12, to prevent further spread of coronavirus. On Tuesday, Telangana’s Covid-19 tally rose by 4,801 while 32 more casualties took the death toll to 2,803. For the past few days, authorities in Telangana have been stating that load in hospitals in Hyderabad was increasing with too many patients coming in from other places.Reddy claimed the junior resident doctors were getting monthly salaries of ₹44,000 in the first year; ₹46,000 in the second year and ₹48,000 in the third year, which was due for a revision since last year. “As per the contract, we have to get a 15% hike in salary every year. We got the hike last in 2019 and it was due for a revision in January 2020. During the last year’s coronavirus pandemic, the government agreed for a pay revision and the file was approved at all levels. It has now been pending clearance from chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao for the last five months,” Reddy said. A similar 15% increase in salary for senior resident doctors was also pending with the chief minister, he said. “We ran from pillar to post to get the file approved, but there has been no response from the government. Hence, as a last resort, we have decided to strike after duly giving two-week’s notice to the government,” Reddy said. The TJUDA also demanded an immediate payment of 10% incentive to all healthcare workers promised by the chief minister during the first wave of Covid-19 pandemic last year. The doctors association have also sought priority Covid-19 treatment for healthcare workers and their families citing their ‘selfless’ service during the crisis period. “In several government hospitals, healthcare workers and their family members are not able get a bed for treatment. The Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS) is always occupied and we have urged the government to increase the bed capacity. We want the government to issue a circular for free treatment of healthcare workers and their family members,” the association president said. The association demands that the government also implements an earlier order to insure medical students. “The ex-gratia of ₹50 lakh for doctors and ₹25 lakh for nurses and supporting staff that was announced [earlier] has not been implemented so far,” Reddy claimed. He added that while the association realised that a strike in this hour of crisis was not appropriate, it felt it was left with ‘no option’. “The government has turned a deaf ear to our problems despite repeated reminders. Anyway, we have not resorted to any lightning strike, but have given two-week’s notice,” Reddy added. Director of Medical Education department Dr Ramesh Reddy could not be reached for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-junior-doctors-threaten-strike-if-not-given-15-pay-hike-as-promised-101620739887311.html
11-05-2021||India||Govt to aggressively use rapid antigen tests to detect Covid-19, 24X7 booths to be set up in cities, villages||The chief of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) Dr Balram Bhargava on Tuesday talked about the country's testing strategy to combat the severely devastating second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The new strategy involves an increased focus on rapid antigen tests (RATs) for faster testing and isolation, Dr Bhargava said at a press conference emphasising on the need for early detection and isolation which he said are keys to break the chain of transmission.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19The ICMR chief added that the need of the hour is to aggressively use RAT at the field and rural levels to increase access and availability and detect Covid-19 infection faster.As part of the revised testing strategy, multiple 24x7 operational RAT booths will be set up in cities, towns and villages, said Dr Bhargava. "RATs will be allowed at all government and private healthcare facilities without the need of any accreditation. The booths for RAT will be set up with the community in schools, colleges, community centers and offices of the RWAs," added Dr Bhargava. He said that public-private partnership models are being encouraged to establish innovative and convenient testing centres, adding that some states are already following it.Detailing the three-step plan to facilitate testing, the ICMR DG said that RT-PCR tests have been rationalised, and RAT to be increased for early detection and tests approved by global agencies have been accorded marketing permission by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI). Additionally, home-based testing solutions are being explored, said Dr Bhargava.Talking about optimising RT-PCR tests, he said that the tests must not be repeated in individuals who tested positive once either by RAT or RT-PCR and no testing is required at the time of hospital discharge for individuals who have recovered. "No need for RT-PCR test in healthy individuals undertaking inter-state domestic travel, non-essential travel and interstate travel of symptomatic individuals should be essentially avoided," Bhargava said during the press briefing. "All asymptomatic individuals undertaking essential travel must follow Covid appropriate behaviour," he said, adding that mobile testing laboratories are being deployed for increased access.Also read| 'Centre can do away with Covid-19 vaccine monopoly': Kejriwal writes to PM ModiIndia conducted nearly 2 million (1,945,299) tests to detect Covid-19 on April 30, the highest in the world on a single day, Dr Bhargava said. The national Covid-19 positivity rate of the country stands at 21 per cent and 310 out of 734 districts report more than the national average, he added.The country on Tuesday witnessed a dip in daily cases as it registered over 329,000 new Covid-19 infections in the last 24 hours, while 3,876 people succumbed to the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-aggressively-use-rapid-antigen-tests-to-detect-covid-19-24x7-booths-to-be-set-up-in-cities-villages-101620734521836.html
11-05-2021||India||26 Covid patients die at Goa hospital; health minister calls for HC probe||Goa health minister Vishwajit Rane has sought a high court probe into what caused the death of 26 Covid-19 patients at the state-run Goa Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in the early hours.He said these fatalities occurred between 2am and 6am, but did not elaborate on the cause even as chief minister Pramod Sawant said the reported oxygen shortage at the hospital was because of logistics of cylinder supply. Sawant, who visited the hospital and interacted with doctors, patients and staff, said these issues will be streamlined by this evening after he fixes responsibility on ensuring supply. Also Read | Goa wants all adults to take Ivermectin. Here’s why FDA warned against its use“There is some mismanagement to help oxygen reach them, the cylinders have to be taken to the wards, the housekeeping. There needs to be a person in-charge (of oxygen cylinders) for each ward. This cannot be left to nurses. Oxygen is there, but it doesn’t reach the wards/patients. We will streamline the process. We will allocate work properly,” Sawant said. “We have oxygen, but if the cylinder is not where it needs to be, then it might as well be said that there is no oxygen,” Sawant added. The hospital, that is dealing with patients up to three times its bed capacity, has two means of supplying oxygen. Those who have beds get oxygen through the central piping system while those who are being treated on stretchers or are made to rest on the floor are given oxygen supply through cylinders that need to be replaced and refilled as soon as one runs out. However, the hospital has not had the manpower to ensure that the cylinder is replaced on time, leading to a drop in oxygen levels especially during the night hours. Reacting to Sawant’s conclusion, health minister Rane said, “I do not understand what the chief minister means when he says there is mismanagement. Maybe he can guide me... The consumption (of oxygen) is unprecedented. We are also facing a shortage. Yesterday, we needed 1,200 cylinders but we got only 400.” “We are seeing that there are a lot of deaths between 2am and 6am. There should be an inquiry, even the high court can inquire the deaths during those hours,” Rane said. “Since 12.30 am, people in GMC Ward 147 were told oxygen would arrive in 10 minutes, only to arrive past 4am that too just four cylinders. I am surprised that even after so many deaths, health authorities are fine with their favourite oxygen suppliers using tractor trolleys [for transportation] and how no arrangements for adequate oxygen is made. Are the lives of people so cheap?” Congress leader Sunil Kawthankar, who has been coordinating relief efforts, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/26-covid-patients-die-at-goa-hospital-health-minister-calls-for-hcprobe-101620738926952.html
11-05-2021||India||Delhi runs out of Covaxin for 18-44 age group, 125 centres to be shut: AAP||Aam Aadmi Party leader Atishi on Tuesday claimed that Delhi's stock of Covaxin for people in the 18-44 age group has been completely used, forcing the Delhi government to shut 125 centres where the coronavirus vaccine was being administered. This comes a day after Delhi health minister Satyendra Jain said that the national capital has only one day's Covaxin stock left and its Covishield doses will last for just three to four days."We have run out of Covaxin stock for 18-44 age group and will have to shut 125 centres where it is being administered after Tuesday evening," Atishi said in an online briefing for Delhi's daily vaccination update.Atishi also urged the Centre to replenish Covaxin and Covishield stocks "otherwise we will have no option but to stop vaccination drive".Also read | 'Centre can do away with Covid-19 vaccine monopoly': Kejriwal writes to PM ModiShe said that more than 1.39 lakh people were given vaccine jabs in the national capital on May 10, the highest daily figure since the inoculation started.In the online briefing, she also said Delhi will get 2.67 lakh more doses of Covishield vaccine from the Centre by Tuesday evening.Earlier in the day, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal urged the Centre to direct manufacturers to increase vaccine supplies to the capital between May and July.Kejriwal on Tuesday requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to allow other companies the right to manufacture the two Covid-19 vaccines administered in the country - Covishield and Covaxin.In his letter, Kejriwal said that the current supply of vaccine doses is not sustainable to meet the whole country's demand, which will in turn be an arsenal in India's fight against the deadly virus.Kejriwal, in his letter wrote, the Indian government can do away with vaccine production monopoly using the patent law. "This way we will be able to provide a safety net to the whole country before the third wave of Covid-19 and save lives of people.”Also read | Delhi’s Covid positivity rate declining, but we can’t be at ease: Health minister Satyendar JainDelhi on Tuesday recorded 12,481 fresh cases of Covid-19, the second day in a row that the number stayed under 13,000 without significant reduction in testing, officials said. The national capital also saw 347 fatalities in the last 24 hours due to the deadly viral contagion, taking the cumulative death toll past 20,000, the health bulletin said. A total of 20,010 people have died since the onset of the pandemic, according to officials.The coronavirus cases in the national capital fell below 13,000-mark after 28 days on Monday, indicating that Delhi may have arrested to some degree the fourth wave of the coronavirus outbreak, which chief minister Arvind Kejriwal termed as very serious and more dangerous than previous three waves.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-runs-out-of-covaxin-for-18-44-age-group-125-centres-to-be-shut-aap-101620737487891.html
11-05-2021||India||Maratha reservation: CM Uddhav Thackeray meets Governor, seeks President's intervention||A delegation of Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) leaders, led by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, met Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Tuesday evening and submitted a letter addressed to the President Ram Nath Kovind seeking his intervention for providing reservation to the Maratha community.After the meeting, Thackeray said they will also be meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi to seek reservation for the community.“In view of the Supreme Court decision that the authority for providing reservation is only with the President, we have written a letter to the President asking reservation for the Maratha community," Thackeray told reporters.He was accompanied by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, PWD minister Ashok Chavan, home minister Dilip Walse Patil, revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat and other leaders.Last week, the Supreme Court had quashed a Maharashtra law granting reservation to the Maratha community saying people from the community can’t be declared educationally and socially backward just to bring them in the reserved category. It had termed the reservation as “unconstitutional".The five-judge bench also refused to refer the 1992 Indra Sawhney judgment, setting a 50 per cent cap on reservation to a larger bench for reconsideration.After the verdict, Thackeray had said that he was disappointed. "It is a disappointing verdict on Maratha reservation. We have been fighting for it for the last many years. All the parties unanimously cleared it in the state legislature," the chief minister said.Speaking on the verdict Thackeray said the demand for reservations is not just of a community but of the entire state. Exuding confidence in the Centre he said that the demand will not be disrespected by the Prime Minister or the government.The Maharashtra government on Saturday announced to appoint a committee under two retired high court judges to review the Supreme Court judgement and suggest the way forward in the quota issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maratha-reservation-cm-uddhav-thackeray-meets-governor-seeks-president-s-intervention-101620737242765.html
11-05-2021||India||First cyclone of 2021 likely to form over Arabian Sea on May 16||The first cyclonic storm of the year could be brewing as a low-pressure area is very likely to form over the southeast Arabian Sea around May 14 morning that is likely to intensify gradually into a cyclonic storm over the east-central Arabian Sea around May 16, and continue to move north-northwestwards, the IMD has said.“There is a lot of variation among models. Some models are showing it’s likely to cross the Oman coast, some indicate south Pakistan which would also mean parts of Gujarat will be affected,” said Sunitha Devi, in charge, cyclones at India Meteorological Department.This will be the first cyclone of this year and will be called Tauktae meaning gecko (named by Myanmar) when formed. There is a chance that the cyclone may cross the north Gujarat or Kutch area on May 20.“We can indicate landfall only once the low-pressure area forms. The message now is mainly to ensure fishermen on the west coast come back by May 14 because the sea will be rough. We are expecting severe weather and heavy rainfall around Lakshadweep, Kerala, coastal Karnataka, ghat areas of Tamil Nadu and parts of Maharashtra following the formation of low-pressure areas,” added Devi.Normally one or two cyclones form over the North India Ocean during the pre-monsoon season in April and May. This time no cyclone formed in April but a depression had formed over the south Andaman Sea last month.“The conditions are prime, with warm waters and an active Madden Julian Oscillation (fading though) that could support cyclogenesis. Will the Arabian Sea see its first cyclone of the year (Tauktae)?” tweeted Roxy Mathew Koll, a climate scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM), Pune.The Madden Julian Oscillation (MJO) is characterised by a band of rain clouds moving across the tropics, depending on their location they can assist cyclone build up, he explained.The low-pressure area is very likely to move north-northwestwards across the southeast Arabian Sea and adjoining the Lakshadweep area and intensify gradually. It may intensify into a Cyclonic Storm over the east central Arabian Sea around May 16 and continue to move north-northwestwards, the IMD said in a statement on Tuesday.Light to moderate rainfall at most places over Lakshadweep with heavy falls at isolated places on May 13 and heavy to very heavy falls at isolated places very likely on May 14. Light to moderate rainfall at most places with heavy to very heavy falls at isolated places is very likely over Kerala, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu on May 14 and 15.Squally weather with wind speed reaching 40-50 kmph gusting to 60 kmph is very likely over southeast Arabian Sea and adjoining Lakshadweep – Maldives area and the equatorial Indian Ocean from May 14 morning. It is very likely to increase gradually, becoming 50-60 kmph gusting to 70 kmph over the same region from May 15 morning. It’s likely to intensify to gale wind speed reaching 60–70 kmph gusting to 80 kmph over east-central Arabian Sea and adjoining southeast Arabian Sea and Lakshadweep area from May 16 morning.Squally wind speed reaching 40-50 kmph gusting to 60 kmph likely along and off Kerala coast on May 14 and 45-55 kmph gusting to 65 kmph along and off Kerala - Karnataka coasts on May 15 and 16. Squally wind speed reaching 40-50 kmph gusting to 60 kmph is also likely to prevail over Comorin Maldives area during May 14-15. Squally wind speed reaching 40-50 kmph gusting to 60 kmph is very likely to prevail along and off Maharashtra-Goa coasts on May 16.Sea condition over east central Arabian Sea will be very rough to high (6-9 metres wave height/34-47 mts) on May 16. Sea conditions will be rough to very rough over Comorin area and along and off the Kerala coast on May 14 and 15 and over the east-central Arabian Sea along and off Karnataka coast on May 15 and Maharashtra–Goa coasts on May 16.Fishermen are advised not to venture into the southeast Arabian Sea, Lakshadweep – Maldives areas, Kerala – Karnataka coasts from May 14 and into the east central Arabian Sea and along and off Maharashtra – Goa coasts from May 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-cyclone-of-2021-likely-to-form-over-arabian-sea-on-may-16-101620737186887.html
11-05-2021||India||Covid-19: MHA details steps taken to enhance oxygen supply||The Ministry of home affairs (MHA) announced a slew of measures put in place by the Centre to enhance oxygen availability. It said on Tuesday that one lakh oxygen concentrators will be procured under the PM-Cares fund. The ministry added that 374 tankers of 7,049 MT capacity have already been airlifted into the country.The decision to procure oxygen concentrators under PM-Cares was taken after Prime Minister Narendra Modi gave a go-ahead for the same at a high-level meeting held in early April. The Prime Minister had instructed that oxygen concentrators should be procured at the earliest and given to states with high Covid-19 caseload.The ministry also announced that 5,805 metric tonnes of Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) will be imported into the country from countries like UAE, France, Kuwait, Singapore and Bahrain. The UAE is a major contributor from whom 3440 MT LMO will be imported, it added.The MHA also mentioned the contribution of the Indian Air Force (IAF) in procuring essential medical supplies for the country from abroad, stating that 81 cryogenic oxygen storage containers of a total capacity of 1,407 MT have been imported. The IAF has also airlifted 1,252 empty oxygen cylinders, 705 oxygen concentrators, and Zeolite (respiratory oxygen raw material), from Singapore, Dubai, Thailand, United Kingdom, Germany, Belgium, Australia, Indonesia and Israel, according to a government release.The ministry also talked about the contribution of the Indian Railways in the country’s fight against Covid-19, stating that 157 oxygen express are being run to transport 637 LMO tankers all over the country. The Indian Railways has transported 4700 MT of LMO in more than 295 tankers to states all over the country till May 10.India on Tuesday recorded 329,942 new cases of Covid-19, marking a slight decline in the daily number of cases. 3,876 new fatalities were also recorded in the last 24 hours, taking the country’s Covid-19 death toll to 249,992.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-mha-details-steps-taken-to-enhance-oxygen-supply-101620735175349.html
11-05-2021||India||Covid-19: Over 5 lakh Favipiravir tablets from UAE arrive in India||Amid the unprecedented rise in Covid-19 cases in India, over five lakh Favipiravir Tablets from the UAE reached here on Tuesday."Further deepening our Comprehensive Strategic Partnership. Thank our close partner & friend UAE for gifting over 5 lakh Favipiravir Tablets," tweeted Arindam Bagchi, Spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs.Earlier, the UAE had sent cryogenic oxygen tanks, medical supplies to help India fight the devastating virus.By far the Indian government has received, a total of seven ISO tankers with 20 MT Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) each arrived from United Arab Emirates (UAE) at Mundra Port in Gujarat, a special cargo with medical aid including 157 ventilators, 480 BiPAPs, and other medical supplies, and 18 cryogenic oxygen containers.Read more: Maharashtra, UP, Delhi among 18 states where daily Covid-19 cases falling: GovtIndia deeply values the support from UAE, and Covid-19 assistance from UAE will help augment oxygen availability, the MEA spokesperson Twitted earlier.India reported a slight dip in new Covid-19 cases with 3,29,942 fresh infections were recorded in the last 24 hours, according to Union Health Ministry on Tuesday.However, the country recorded more recoveries during this period as 3,56,082 new discharges were reported. With 3,876 new deaths due to Covid-19, the cumulative toll mounted to 2,49,992 deaths.The total positive cases now stands at 2,29,92,517, including 1,90,27,304 recoveries. At present, there are currently 37,15,221 active coronavirus cases in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-over-5-lakh-favipiravir-tablets-from-uae-arrive-in-india-101620734941850.html
11-05-2021||India||Assam CM allots portfolios to ministers; keeps home, PWD, personnel with self||A day after taking oath as Assam’s 15th chief minister, Himanta Biswa Sarma on Tuesday allotted portfolios to his Cabinet colleagues keeping important portfolios to him. According to details available with HT, Sarma would be in-charge of home, personnel, public works and all other departments not allotted to any another minister in the Cabinet. He had held the health, finance, education and public works departments in the Sarbananda Sonowal Cabinet and it was expected that he would retain most, if not all, of them in the new government headed by him. The health portfolio has been allotted to Keshab Mahanta, working president of BJP’s alliance partner Asom Gana Parishad (AGP), who will also be in-charge of science and technology and information technology departments. Finance ministry has been given to Ajanta Neog, a former Congress minister who switched to BJP just ahead of election. She will be responsible for the social welfare department as well. Also Read | Haryana reports highest Covid-19 vaccine wastage followed by Assam, RajasthanRanoj Pegu had been allotted the education portfolio along with the department for welfare of plain tribes and backward classes (those in non-Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC) areas). Parimal Suklabaidya retains forest and environment, fisheries and excise departments. President of BJP’s state unit Ranjeet Kumar Dass will handle panchayat and rural development, public health engineering, food and civil supplies and consumer affairs ministries. AGP president Atul Bora has been given agriculture, horticulture, animal husbandry and veterinary and border area development portfolios. Chandra Mohan Patowary gets transport, industries and commerce, skill development and welfare of minorities departments. Urkhao Gwra Brahma, the lone United Peoples’ Party Liberal (UPPL) representative in the new Cabinet, has been allotted handloom and textile, soil conservation and welfare of plain tribes and backward classes (those in Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC) areas. Ashok Singhal has been given charge of Guwahati development, urban development and irrigation departments while Jogen Mohan got the revenue and disaster management, hills area development and mines and minerals portfolios. Sajay Kishan will be in-charge of welfare of tea-tribes and labour and employment departments and Bimal Bora got sports and youth welfare, cultural affairs, power and tourism departments. Pijush Hazarika, a close associate of the CM and the former minister of state for heath, has been allotted water resources, information and public relations and parliamentary affairs departments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-cm-allots-portfolios-to-ministers-keeps-home-pwd-personnel-with-self-101620735446583.html
11-05-2021||India||Covid-19 : Gauhati HC extends all interim orders in 4 NE states till June 1||The Gauhati High Court has extended all interim orders by various courts of Assam, Nagaland, Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh till June 1 in view of the spike in Covid-19 cases. The full court of Gauhati High Court in its meeting on May 8 informally discussed issues arising out of restricted working due to the pandemic and decided to deal with the matter on its judicial side. Accordingly, the full bench of Gauhati High Court, comprising Chief Justice Sudhanshu Dhulia and Justices N Kotiswar Singh and Manash Ranjan Pathak, filed a suo motu PIL on Sunday and issued the orders on Monday. "Considering that there is a daily surge of Covid-19 cases in the State of Assam as well as in Nagaland, Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh, the Chief Justice has constituted this Full Bench suo motu to tackle the plight of litigants caught in this extraordinary situation," the order uploaded on the official website said. The HC considered the difficulties faced by the litigants and lawyers in approaching the courts in these difficult times, particularly due to the restrictions, and passed a series of instructions under Article 226, read with Article 227, of the Constitution, the order said. Read more: After Bihar, bodies found abandoned in Ganga in UP"In all matters, where interim orders of this Court and of the Courts and Tribunals subordinate to it were in force till April 19, 2021, but have expired since then or are likely to expire by June 1, 2021, such orders shall unconditionally stand extended and/or deemed to have been extended till June 1, 2021. "This shall include all such orders of the Outlying Benches and the Courts and Tribunals subordinate therein," it said. The High Court also kept in abeyance any decree for eviction, dispossession or demolition passed by any court, tribunal or authority during this period, except for any specific order for a given case. It also directed that in cases where the accused or convict is on interim bail, short term bail or anticipatory bail which expired before April 19, 2021 to June 1, 2021, the person may not surrender and his or her bail orders will be effective till May 31, 2021, the Bench said. The litigants may, however, approach the concerned court or any order on vacation of stay in an individual case in an extremely exceptional situation, the litigants and parties may approach the concerned court. The full bench has fixed May 31 as the next date for hearing on the matter. In order to control the spread of coronavirus in the courts, the HC had earlier taken a few decisions restricting the working with minimal staff across the four states. "Now by our own orders, we have restricted the functioning of all courts, which are now functioning to deal with extremely urgent matters alone. Under these circumstances, there may be cases where great and irreparable harm may be caused due to the obvious hindrance to the access to justice," it said. In the order, the Bench said that the entire world is facing the worst pandemic in its living memory and the second wave of Covid-19 has been many times more severe and devastating than the first. "It has crippled our daily life. Like many other institutions, judiciary is also battling with this crisis and trying new means and methods to keep the courts functional under these strange and difficult times," it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-gauhati-hc-extends-all-interim-orders-in-4-northe-states-till-june-1-101620730024686.html
11-05-2021||India||After Bihar, bodies found abandoned in Ganga in UP||A day after partially decomposed bodies of suspected Covid-19 patients were spotted in the Ganga in Bihar’s Buxar district, over a dozen corpses were found floating in the river at separate places in Ghazipur district on Monday and prompted officials to order a probe.“Our officials are present on the spot and an investigation is underway. We are trying to find out from where these bodies came,” said MP Singh, district magistrate of Ghazipur, which borders Buxar.“I received information that two bodies were floating in the Ganga in the Bara area of Ghazipur. I along with my team reached the spot. We found that two bodies were floating in the river. This is a matter of grave concern,” said Ramesh Kumar Maurya, the sub-divisional magistrate of Sevrai division. Maurya said they do not know where the bodies came from. He refused to comment over the Buxar administration’s claim that the bodies found in the Ganga in Bihar had come from Uttar Pradesh.Also Read | Varanasi ESIC Hosp gets oxygen plant from IsraelA police officer, who did not want to be named, said a vigil would be maintained along the river stretch in Ghazipur’s Gahmar area. Locals have been asked to inform police in case they see anyone dumping a body in the river.Shyamnarayan Singh, a social worker, said relatives of four people dumped their corpses in the Ganga as they could not afford their cremation.“Such incidents are being reported for the last one week from several villages in the area,” he claimed. On Tuesday, Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat called the recovery of bodies from the river “unfortunate” and asked concerned states to take immediate cognisance. “The incident of corpses found floating in Ganga in Buxar region of Bihar is unfortunate. This is definitely a matter of investigation. The Modi government is committed to the cleanliness of... Ganga. This incident is unexpected...,” Shekhawat tweeted.(With agency input)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-bihar-bodies-found-abandoned-in-ganga-in-up-101620734906680.html
11-05-2021||India||'Centre can do away with Covid-19 vaccine monopoly': Kejriwal writes to PM Modi||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to allow other companies the right to manufacture the two Covid-19 vaccines administered in the country - Covishield and Covaxin.In his letter, Kejriwal said that the current supply of vaccine doses is not sustainable to meet the whole country's demand, which will in turn be an arsenal in India's fight against the deadly virus.Kejriwal, in his letter, wrote the Indian government can do away with vaccine production monopoly using the patent law. "This way we will be able to provide a safety net to the whole country before the third wave of Covid-19 and save lives of people.”“The second wave of Covid is very fatal and the disease has reached the villages with many lives lost… There is need to vaccinate all the citizens as soon as possible... Presently only two companies are manufacturing vaccines in India. Providing vaccine to the whole country through two companies only is not possible. It requires ramping up vaccine manufacturing at war footing,” said Kejriwal in a letter to Modi, a copy of which HT has seen.Also read: Maharashtra, UP, Delhi among 18 states where daily Covid-19 cases falling: GovtIt further said, “I request you to grant permission for mass production of the vaccines. Every company in the country that has capacity of safe production should manufacture the vaccine."Earlier in the day, the CM asked the Central government to share the vaccine formulas and allow more companies to scale up production."Only two companies are producing vaccines so far. They produce only 6-7 crore vaccines a month. This way, it will take over two years to vaccinate everyone. Many waves would have come by then. Important to increase vaccine production on war footing and frame national plan to vaccinate all," Kejriwal said at a press conference."The Centre has the power to make the vaccine formula public and distribute to those who are interested in making it. During the crisis in PPE kits last year, we allowed many companies to make the kits. Likewise, we should do the same in terms of vaccine manufacturing," he said further.Kejriwal's request comes on the day Delhi recorded 12,481 fresh cases of Covid-19, the second day in a row that the number stayed under 13,000 without significant reduction in testing, officials said.Also read: Delhi’s Covid positivity rate declining, but we can’t be at ease: Satyendar JainThe national capital also saw 347 fatalities in the last 24 hours due to the deadly viral contagion, taking the cumulative death toll past 20,000, the health bulletin said. A total of 20,010 people have died since the onset of the pandemic, according to officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-can-do-away-with-covid-19-vaccine-monopoly-kejriwal-writes-to-pm-modi-101620732657271.html
11-05-2021||India||26 Covid-19 patients die at Goa hospital; minister seeks HC probe||Goa Health Minister Vishwajit Rane on Tuesday said 26 Covid-19 patients died at the state- run Goa Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in the early hours and sought an investigation by the High Court to find out the exact cause.He said these fatalities occurred between 2 am and 6 am "which is a fact", but remained evasive about the cause.Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant, who visited GMCH, said the gap between the "availability of medical oxygen and its supply to Covid-19 wards in the GMCH might have caused some issues for the patients" even as he stressed that there is no scarcity of oxygen supply in the state.Speaking to reporters, Rane admitted the shortfall in the supply of medical oxygen at the GMCH as of Monday."The high court should investigate the reasons behind these deaths. The HC should also intervene and prepare a white paper on oxygen supply to the GMCH, which would help to set the things right," the health minister said after CM's visit to the GMCH.Read more: Maharashtra diverts Covid-19 vaccines for 18-44 age group. Minister explains whyRane said the medical oxygen requirement of the facility as of Monday was 1,200 jumbo cylinders of which only 400 were supplied."If there's a shortfall in the supply of medical oxygen, the discussion should be held about how to bridge that gap," he said.Rane said a three-member team of nodal officers set up by the state government to oversee Covid-19 treatment at GMCH should give its inputs about the issues to the CM.Earlier in the day, the CM donning a PPE kit visited Covid-19 wards in the GMCH where he met patients and their relatives."There are issues over the availability of oxygen in these wards which need to be sorted out," the CM said.He announced the setting up of a ward-wise mechanism to ensure a smooth supply of medical oxygen."Doctors, who are busy treating patients, cannot spend their time in arranging logistics like oxygen. I will hold a meeting immediately to set up ward-wise mechanisms to ensure that oxygen is supplied to patients in time," Sawant told reporters.The CM said there was no dearth of medical oxygen and cylinders in the state but the problem arises sometimes as these cylinders do not reach their destinations on time.Read more: Maharashtra, UP, Delhi among 18 states where daily Covid-19 cases falling: GovtSawant said the state government is making efforts on all fronts to tackle the pandemic."We have abundant supplies of (medical) oxygen. There is no scarcity in the state," he said.Goa's Covid-19 tally stood at 1,21,650 as of May 10, while 50 deaths had taken the toll to 1,729, an official had said.Meanwhile, Sawant warned of action against private hospitals that refuse the coverage of Deen Dayal Swastha Seva Yojana (DDSSY) to Covid-19 patients.He said the pending financial dues on part of private hospitals under this scheme will be cleared in the next 15 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/26-covid-19-patients-die-at-goa-hospital-minister-seeks-hc-probe-101620733738700.html
11-05-2021||India||Muslim men perform final rites of Hindu man in Haridwar||A group of Muslim men joined Hindus to perform the last rites of 40-year-old vegetable vendor Raju, who died of a heart attack in Haridwar on Monday. The son of Raju, who was from Bijnore in Uttar Pradesh, is 10 and too young to perform the rites when only 20 people were allowed to attend the funeral.Aabad Qureshi, Israr Mansuri, Aftab , Dilshad, Nadim Qureshi, who was fasting, collected material for rituals with help of Raju’s Hindu relatives and performed the last rites.Also Read | Uttarakhand, Haryana, Bihar now among states with highest Covid-19 deaths“Covid pandemic is also giving the message that religion or sect is nothing but humanity. Every person irrespective of his faith is getting affected and we decided to lend support to the affected family. Allah or Ishwar is one. We just did what the almighty teaches us... help needy whether he seeks help or not,” said Aabad Qureshi.Rajesh Bhatt, a local resident, said the Muslim men have given a positive message that will enhance communal harmony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/muslim-men-perform-final-rites-of-hindu-man-in-haridwar-101620733646486.html
11-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: India has administered over 172 million Covid-19 vaccine doses till now and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India has administered over 172mn Covid vaccine doses till nowIndia had administered over 170 million coronavirus vaccine doses by Monday, May 10, a day Delhi’s positivity dipped below the crucial 20% for the first time since April 14. Read moreCovid-19 restrictions: Mapping curbs across states as cases in India riseAs the country reels under the impact of second wave of the pandemic, here is a look at states which have introduced fresh restrictions in order to curb the spread of the virus. Read moreWHO warns against use of Ivermectin for Covid-19 treatmentThe World Health Organisation has recommended against using Ivermectin to treat patients with coronavirus disease but the anti-parasitic medicine is widely prescribed by doctors in India for the same. Read moreOver 2,000 cases, 8 deaths from Mucormycosis in Maharashtra so far, govt creating special wards: Health minister TopeAfter announcing free treatment for patients suffering from the rare fungal infection of Mucormycosis, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Tuesday said more than 2,000 cases have been reported and eight people have succumbed to the infection in the state so far. Read moreNo Virat Kohli, MS Dhoni, Jasprit Bumrah in Aakash Chopra's IPL 2021 Team XIThe Indian Premier League 2021 season was halted mid-way after several players inside the bio-bubble tested positive for the Covid-19. But the fans still got to witness some of the most memorable performances in the tournament's history in the first half of the tournament. Read moreTesla puts brake on Shanghai land buy as US-China tensions weigh: SourcesTesla Inc. halted a plan to buy land in Shanghai to expand its manufacturing plant and turn it into a worldwide export hub because of trade tensions between China and the US, Reuters reported. Read moreWatch | Covid: ‘Vaccine shortage in Delhi,’ says Kejriwal; offers solution to Centre||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-india-has-administered-over-172-million-covid-19-vaccine-doses-till-now-and-all-the-latest-news-101620729288904.html
11-05-2021||India||Tripura govt forms panel to probe attack on ex-CM Manik Sarkar||A day after former Tripura chief minister Manik Sarkar and some CPI(Marxist) leaders were allegedly attacked, the BJP-led government on Wednesday constituted an inquiry committee to probe the incident and submit its report within 48 hours. “Chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb has taken step regarding what happened with Opposition leader Manik Sarkar in South district. He has ordered to form an inquiry committee led by South District Superintendent of Police and submit the report within 48 hours”, said a statement by the chief minister’s Office ( CMO). Sarkar, and two other legislators and party leaders were attacked, allegedly by ruling party cadres, during their visit to CPM activists who were attacked a day ago at Shantirbazar in south District on Monday. According to police report, no one was injured. Also Read | Maharashtra, UP, Delhi among 18 states where daily Covid-19 are falling: GovtSarkar said though he had informed the director general of police of his visit, neither any senior police official was present nor there were any security measures in place.“There is jungle raj in the state. Law and order has collapsed. It was a planned attack and I don’t think it could have been pulled off without the tacit support of the state leadership,” said Sarkar to the reporters. However, Tripura police said adequate police personnel were deployed on the spot and tweeted, “Hon’ble CM has asked SP (South Tripura) for a report on the incident of attack on CPIM leaders at Santirbazar on 10 May, 2021. Further it is clarified that there was adequate deployment and senior police officers were present at the venue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-govt-forms-panel-to-probe-attack-on-ex-cm-manik-sarkar-101620731186365.html
11-05-2021||India||Maharashtra, UP, Delhi among 18 states where daily Covid-19 cases falling: Govt||The Union health ministry said on Tuesday that early trend of decline in daily new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and related fatalities has been noted in India. Addressing a press conference, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said that the number of daily cases of Covid-19 are on decline in at least 18 states and union territories.Also Read: Fresh recoveries outnumber daily new Covid-19 cases after 2 months"More than 1 lakh active cases are there in 13 states, 50,000 to 1 lakh active cases in six states and less than 50,000 active cases in 17 states," he said at the press conference.Also Watch: WHO Chief scientist on India’s Covid situationBhushan also said that the states and UTs where Covid-19 cases are falling are Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Delhi, Rajasthan, Haryana, Chhattisgarh, Bihar, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Jharkhand, Telangana, Chandigarh, Ladakh, Daman and Diu, Lakshadweep and Andaman & Nicobar Islands.The states and UTs which are still a matter of concern are Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Odisha, Punjab, Assam, J&K, Goa, Himachal Pradesh, Puducherry, Manipur, Meghalaya, Tripura, Nagaland and Arunachal Pradesh which are showing continued increasing trend in daily new cases of Covid-19, Bhushan said.The health ministry official also said that 26 states still have a positivity rate of more than 15 per cent.New cases of Covid-19 fell to 3.29 lakh after 14 days, taking the infection tally to 2,29,92,517, according to the Union health ministry update on Tuesday morning.A total of 3,29,942 infections were reported in a span of 24 hours, while the death toll climbed to 2,49,992 with 3,876 fresh fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.After registering a steady rise for two months, the active cases have dropped to 37,15,221, accounting for 16.16 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 82.75 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/early-trend-of-decline-in-daily-new-covid-19-cases-and-deaths-noted-in-india-says-govt-101620730149107.html
11-05-2021||India||Delhi records 12K Covid-19 cases, 347 deaths, positivity rate reduced to half in 20 days||Delhi on Tuesday recorded 12,481 fresh cases of Covid-19, the second day in a row that the number stayed under 13,000 without significant reduction in testing, officials said. The national capital also saw 347 fatalities in the last 24 hours due to the deadly viral contagion, taking the cumulative death toll past 20,000, the health bulletin said. A total of 20,010 people have died since the onset of the pandemic, according to officials.The coronavirus cases in the national capital fell below 13,000-mark after 28 days on Monday, indicating that Delhi may have arrested to some degree the fourth wave of the coronavirus outbreak, which chief minister Arvind Kejriwal termed as very serious and more dangerous than previous three waves.The increased efforts to bring the disease spread under control has started showing signs of progress as the positivity rate - the proportion of samples turning up a positive result among all tested - has been reduced to half in 20 days. On Tuesday, Delhi's positivity rate stood at 17.76%, down from 19.10% recorded a day earlier.The test positivity rate reached a peak of 36.2% on April 22, and stayed above 30% for eight more days before starting to decline. In Monday’s bulletin, it dipped below the 20% mark for the first time in nearly three weeks.According to the World Health Organization (WHO), the positivity rate needs to come down below 5% for the outbreak to be considered under control.A total of 70,276 tests were carried out in the last 24 hours, out of which 54,619 were RT-PCR and 15,657 were rapid antigen tests. A total of 66,234 tests were carried out a day earlier.Delhi's active cases dipped slightly to 83,809 from 85,258 recorded a day earlier. Among the infected, 51,480 people are recovering from the disease in home isolation.The containment zones in Delhi also rose to 55,661 from 54,256 recorded a day earlier.Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said on Tuesday that the positivity rate of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the national capital has declined from 36 per cent to 19.1 per cent in the past few days and the new cases have also dropped from 28,000 cases per day to around 12,500. However, he added that the government cannot be at ease until the positivity rate comes down below 5 per cent and the daily tally drops below 3,000-4,000 cases.“The fourth wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in Delhi is very much there but its peak has been declining since the last week of April,” Jain said while addressing a press conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-records-12k-covid-19-cases-347-deaths-positivity-rate-reduced-to-half-in-20-days-101620727724277.html
11-05-2021||India||Fresh recoveries outnumber daily new Covid-19 cases after 2 months||For the first time in two months, the total number of people who recovered from Covid-19 in the country exceeded the number of fresh cases, resulting in a net decline of 30,016 active cases.As per the union health ministry, as many as 3,29,942 fresh cases and 3,56,082 recoveries were reported in the last 24 hours.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19Over 17.27 crore people have been vaccinated in the country so far. A total of 17,27,10,066 vaccine doses have been administered through 25,15,519 sessions, as per the provisional report till 7 am today.These include 95,64,242 Health Care Workers who have taken the first dose and 65,05,744 HCWs who have taken the second dose, 1,40,54,058 front-line workers (1st dose), 78,53,514 FLWs (2nd dose).As many as 25,59,339 beneficiaries under the 18-45 age group have received their first dose. 5,55,10,630 first doses have been administered to beneficiaries aged 45 to 60 years, while 71,95,632 have received the second dose.5,38,06,205 1st dose beneficiaries and 1,56,60,702 second dose beneficiaries of more than 60 years old.Meanwhile, as health infrastructure across the country struggles to cope with the rising Covid-19 caseload, a total of 8,900 oxygen concentrators, 5,043 oxygen cylinders and 18 oxygen generation plants received as part of global aid to India have been dispatched to states and union territories across the country to strengthen their Covid-19 response.Also read| Covid in Rajasthan: Sachin Pilot donates 1 month salary to CM relief fundAlong with this, additional aid of 5,698 ventilators/Bi-PAP and more than 3.4 lakh Remdesivir vials have also been delivered to parts of the country.Ten states account for 72.28 per cent of the new recoveries. These include Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Haryana, Andhra Pradesh, Bihar and Gujarat. The National Mortality Rate currently stands at 1.09 per cent. 3,876 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours.Ten States account for 73.09 per cent, with Karnataka topping the list with 596 deaths, followed by Maharashtra with 549.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fresh-recoveries-outnumber-daily-new-covid-19-cases-after-2-months-101620725398522.html
11-05-2021||India||Haryana reports highest Covid-19 vaccine wastage followed by Assam, Rajasthan||Haryana, Assam and Rajasthan are among the top three states that reported the highest percentage of Covid-19 vaccine wastage, said the Union Health Ministry on Tuesday.As per the Ministry, Haryana reported 6.49 vaccine wastage, followed by Assam with 5.92 per cent, and Rajasthan with 5.68 per cent.5.67 per cent vaccine wastage was recorded in Meghalaya, 5.20 per cent in Bihar, 5.19 per cent in Manipur, 4.94 per cent in Punjab, 4.5 per cent in Dadra and Nagar Haveli, 4.13 per cent in Tamil Nadu and 3.36 per cent in Nagaland.Also read: India has administered over 172mn Covid vaccine doses till nowAs per the ministry, the Government of India has so far provided nearly 18 crore vaccine doses (17,93,57,860) to States/UTs free of cost. Of this, the total consumption including wastages is 16,89,27,797 doses (as per data available at 8 am today).More than 90 lakh Covid Vaccine doses (90,31,691) are still available with the States/UTs to be administered. States with negative balance are showing more consumption (including wastage) than vaccine supplied as they have not reconciled the vaccine they have supplied to Armed Forces, it said.More than 7 lakh (7,29,610) vaccine doses will be received by the States/UTs within the next three days, said the Union Health Ministry on Tuesday.As per government data, Maharashtra received the highest number of vaccine doses (1,82,52,450) followed by Uttar Pradesh with 1,51,31,270; Gujarat with 1,48,70,490; Rajasthan with 1,47,37,360; West Bengal with 1,20,83,340; Karnataka with 1,09,28,270; Madhya Pradesh with 94,79,720; Bihar with 87,65,820; Kerala with 78,97,790 and Tamil Nadu with 76,43,010 doses respectively.Also read: States to get 7 lakh more Covid-19 vaccine doses within next 3 days: CentreOut of the above-mentioned doses, the amount of vaccine doses consumed by these states including wastage is the highest in Maharashtra (1,75,33,889) followed by Uttar Pradesh (1,38,60,390).As per the ministry's data till May 11, 8 am, the balance availability of vaccine doses is highest in Uttar Pradesh at 11,52,091 doses followed by Gujarat at 8,32,398; Tamil Nadu at 7,89,619; Madhya Pradesh at 5,59,271; Bihar at 5,26,396; Maharashtra at 4,98,756; Chhattisgarh at 4,12,768; Jharkhand at 4,04,357; Haryana at 3,72,831 and Delhi at 3,66,731 doses respectively.Meanwhile, India reported a slight dip in new Covid-19 cases with 3,29,942 fresh infections were recorded in the last 24 hours, according to Union Health Ministry on Tuesday.However, the country recorded more recoveries during this period as 3,56,082 new discharges were reported. With 3,876 new deaths due to Covid-19, the cumulative toll mounted to 2,49,992 deaths.The total positive cases now stands at 2,29,92,517, including 1,90,27,304 recoveries. At present, there are currently 37,15,221 active coronavirus cases in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-reports-highest-covid-19-vaccine-wastage-followed-by-assam-rajasthan-101620726879964.html
11-05-2021||India||States to get 7 lakh more Covid-19 vaccine doses within next 3 days: Centre||More than 90 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with states and UTs which will receive over 7 lakh additional doses in the next three days, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday.The Centre has so far provided more than 18 crore vaccine doses (18,00,03,160) to states and UTs free of cost.Of this, the total consumption including wastages is 17,09,71,429 doses."More than 90 lakh COVID Vaccine doses (90,31,691) are still available with the states and UTs to be administered. States with negative balance are showing more consumption (including wastage) than vaccine supplied as they have not reconciled the vaccine they have supplied to Armed Forces," the ministry said.States and UTs will receive 7,29,610 additional vaccine doses in addition within the next three days.The ministry said the Government of India has been supporting the nationwide vaccination drive by providing COVID vaccines free of cost to states and UTs.Implementation of the Liberalized and Accelerated Phase 3 Strategy of Covid-19 Vaccination has started from 1st May 2021. In the strategy it is made clear that every month only 50 per cent of the total Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL) cleared vaccine doses of any manufacturer would be procured by the Centre.The Centre would continue to procure its share of 50 per cent of the monthly CDL cleared vaccines and would continue to make it available to state governments free of cost as was being done earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-to-get-7-lakh-more-covid-19-vaccine-doses-within-next-3-days-centre-101620726410128.html
11-05-2021||India||India has administered over 172mn Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered over 170 million coronavirus vaccine doses by Monday, May 10, a day Delhi’s positivity dipped below the crucial 20% for the first time since April 14. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said the Capital is preparing for the third national wave of the pandemic by augmenting the infrastructure such that the city is able to handle 30,000 daily cases.Meanwhile, by Monday 8pm, 172,633,761 vaccine doses had been given in India. This includes 9,563,406 healthcare workers who have had their first dose and 6,505,072 who have got their second dose as well. As many as 14,049,681 frontline workers have had their first dose while 7,851,075 have got their second dose too.In the 45-59-year age group, 55,497,658 people have got their first dose and another 7,173,939 have had their second dose as well. In the 60+ category, 53,800,706 people have been administered their first dose while 15,639,381 have had their second dose as well.Also Read | India’s Covid-19 cases decline by 30K for first time after 2 months: GovtIn the newly added category of 18-44 year age group, 518,479 beneficiaries received their first dose of Covid vaccine on Monday and cumulatively, 2,552,843 of this age group have been vaccinated across 30 states and Union Territories.As many as 2,430,017 vaccine doses were given by the evening. Of this, 1,047,092 beneficiaries were vaccinated with the first dose and 1,382,925 beneficiaries received their second dose as well.On Tuesday, the country witnessed a slight decline in the number of daily Covid cases, registering 329,942 cases in the preceding 24 hours. With this, India’s cumulative coronavirus infection tally has reached 22,992,517, as per the Union health ministry dashboard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-over-172mn-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101620726446071.html
11-05-2021||India||Delhi HC agrees to hear plea seeking interim stay on Central Vista project||The Delhi high court on Wednesday will hear a plea contending that the Central Vista project be put on hold during the pandemic as it is not an essential activity.The petitioners have also filed an application seeking appointment of a local commissioner to verify the Centre’s claims, made through its detailed affidavit, that workers engaged in the construction of the Central Vista project are staying on site and have been provided all necessary health care.The Central Vista project envisages a new Parliament House, Prime Minister’s residence, Vice-President’s residence, as well as several new office buildings and a Central Secretariat to accommodate ministry offices.On Tuesday, the Centre filed an affidavit detailing that the workers are staying on the site and the petitioners -- Anya Malhotra, who works as a translator, and Sohail Hashmi, a historian and documentary filmmaker -- have deliberately suppressed facts in filing the plea to stop the construction work.Since the affidavit was not yet on record, a bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and justice Jasmeet Singh listed the matter for hearing on May 12.It said a Covid compliant facility was installed at the site to accommodate 250 workers who had chosen to stay there and continue the work.It has also said that there is strict adherence to Covid protocol. “It is unequivocally stated that the workers working on the project as of now, are residing at the work site, following social distancing norms as well as other Covid-19 protocols,” it said.Also Read | Opposition discourse against Central Vista bizarre, says minister Hardeep PuriCiting media reports, the petitioners had asked the Centre why permission was sought for movement of as many as 180 vehicles. “Nowhere in the affidavit is there a disclosure, or response to the averments of the 500 subcontracted workers engaged in the construction of the Central Vista before the curfew who were formerly transported in four buses and were then ferried in a reduced number of such vehicles,” the application said.The petitioners sought that a local commissioner be appointed to verify the various factual assertions made by the Centre, including the submission that the labourers are residing on site.“It also needs to be verified whether the on-site facilities as claimed are compliant of Covid protocols and what health and testing facilities have been made for the workers on site,” the application read.The petitioners had moved the apex court against the high court’s May 4 order adjourning their plea to May 17. The high court had adjourned the matter saying it first wants to study the apex court’s January 5 judgment giving a go-ahead to the Central Vista project.In the appeal before the Supreme Court, the petitioners contended that the project was not an essential activity and therefore, it can be put on hold during the pandemic.The apex court had declined to interfere in the matter as the issue was pending before the high court, asking the petitioners to seek an early hearing before the high court. Subsequently, they moved an application to advance the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-to-hear-plea-on-central-vista-project-tomorrow-101620725906100.html
11-05-2021||India||India's Covid-19 cases decline by 30K for first time after 2 months: Govt||A net decline of 30,016 Covid-19 cases recorded from the total active caseload in the last 24 hours for the first time after 61 days, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare informed on Tuesday.Also, after 61 days, the new recoveries outnumber the new cases seen in the last 24 hours.The health ministry said that India's total active caseload has dipped to 37,15,221 today and it now comprises 16.16 per cent of the country's total positive cases.3,29,942 new cases were registered in the last 24 hours out of which Karnataka has reported the highest daily new cases at 39,305 followed by Maharashtra with 37,236 while Tamil Nadu reported 28,978 new cases.As per health ministry data, ten states-- Karnataka, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh, Haryana and Delhi reported 69.88 per cent of the new cases in the last 24 hours."Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh and Bihar cumulatively account for 82.68 per cent of India's total active cases," it said.Also, with 3,56,082 new recoveries in the last 24 hours, India's cumulative recoveries stand at 1,90,27,304 today and the national recovery rate is 82.75 per cent .Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Haryana, Andhra Pradesh, Bihar and Gujarat account for 72.28 per cent of the new recoveries.Moreover, with 3,876 new deaths in the last 24 hours, the national mortality rate currently stands at 1.09 per cent.Ten states account for 73.09 per cent of the new deaths whereas Karnataka saw the maximum casualties (596) followed by Maharashtra with 549 daily deaths.Meanwhile, the cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has exceeded 17.27 crore today.A total of 17,27,10,066 vaccine doses have been administered through 25,15,519sessions, as per the provisional report till 7 am today and more than 25 lakh vaccination doses were administered in the last 24 hours.As on Day-115 of the vaccination drive (May 10, 2021), 25,03,756 vaccine doses were given. Across 18,542 sessions, 10,75,948 beneficiaries were vaccinated for 1st dose and 14,27,808 beneficiaries received their 2nd dose of vaccine."These include 95,64,242 HCWs who have taken the 1st dose and 65,05,744 HCWs who have taken the 2nddose, 1,40,54,058 FLWs (1stdose), 78,53,514 FLWs (2nddose), 25,59,339 beneficiaries under 18-45 age group (1stdose), 5,55,10,630 (1stdose) and 71,95,632 (2nd dose) beneficiaries aged 45 to 60 years.5,38,06,205 1stdose beneficiaries and 1,56,60,702 2nd dose beneficiaries of more than 60 years old," it added.Ten states-- Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Kerala, Bihar and Andhra Pradesh account for 66.7 per cent of the cumulative doses given so far in the country."5,24,731 beneficiaries of the age group 18-44 years received their first dose of Covid-19 vaccine in the last 24 hours and cumulatively 25,59,339 across 30 States/UTs since the start of phase-3 of vaccination drive," the ministry further said.The ministry said that 8,900 oxygen concentrators, 5,043 oxygen cylinders, 18 oxygen generation plants, 5,698 ventilators/ Bi PAP and more than 3.4 lakh Remdesivir vials received as part of global aid to India have been delivered and dispatched to states and UTs to strengthen and supplement their Covid-19 response, so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-covid-19-cases-decline-by-30k-for-first-time-after-2-months-govt-101620725063075.html
11-05-2021||India||Nagaland announces total lockdown from May 14 to May 21 to contain Covid-19||Seized with a rapid surge in Covid-19 cases and related deaths in Nagaland, the state’s high powered committee (HPC) on Covid-19 on Tuesday announced total lockdown across Nagaland from May 14 till May 21. The decision to this effect was taken in a meeting at the chief minister’s residence in capital Kohima, said government spokespersons Neiba Kronu and Mmhonlumo Kikon.Essential services including agricultural activities will be exempted from the lockdown and government offices will continue to function with a core team formed by the heads of departments, the spokespersons said. The state government is expected to issue fresh and detailed standard operating procedures (SOP) for the lockdown period by Thursday.Nagaland has seen 28 Covid-19 related deaths in the last six days, while the 133 fresh cases reported on Monday have taken the number of active cases to 2,884. The total caseload has reached 16,283. The recovery rate in the state has decreased to 78.2% from 78.55% recorded on Sunday.Health and family welfare department has been instructed to aggressively test and utilise the full capacity of Covid-19 laboratories in the state.HT has learnt that construction activities may be permitted in the state during the lockdown with the condition that contractors and firms will be responsible for ensuring adherence to all Covid containment measures at the sites and among the workers.Meanwhile, Nagaland on Monday administered 225,361 doses of Covid-19 vaccines. Out of the total doses administered in the state, 51,690 were given to frontline workers, 14,992 to healthcare professionals and 110,431 to people above 45 years and senior citizens, immunization officer Ritu Thurr was quoted as saying by a news agency.A total 48,428 people have received the second dose of the vaccine completing the full course of vaccination. They comprise 26,485 front-line workers, 9,971 healthcare workers and 11,792 persons above 45 years and senior citizens, Thurr added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagaland-announces-total-lockdown-from-may-14-to-may-21-to-contain-covid19-101620725185912.html
11-05-2021||India||Covid-19 restrictions: Mapping curbs across states as cases in India rise||Cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) are on the rise in India. On Tuesday, the country registered 329,942 fresh cases of the virus. With this, its cumulative infection tally reached 22,992,517, according to the Union health ministry dashboard at 8am. Meanwhile, as many as 3,876 people died of the virus in the last 24 hours, taking India's Covid-19 death toll to 249,992, the ministry added.As the country reels under the impact of second wave of the pandemic, here is a look at states which have introduced fresh restrictions in order to curb the spread of the virus.PunjabMadhya PradeshMaharashtraKarnatakaGoaKeralaTamil NaduChhattisgarhTelanganaAndhra PradeshDelhiHimachal PradeshUttarakhandBiharUttar PradeshArunachal PradeshAssamNagalandManipurTripuraMizoramJharkhandWest BengalOdishaHaryanaRajasthanJammu and KashmirChandigarhIn the latest addition to these curbs, the Telangana government on Tuesday decided to impose a state-wide lockdown from May 12 to May 22. The restrictions will be imposed under this lockdown from 10am on May 12, however, there will be a relaxation of lockdown from 6am to 10am everyday, the chief minister's office said in a release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-restrictions-mapping-curbs-across-states-as-cases-in-india-rise-101620715698612.html
11-05-2021||India||Covid-19: Telangana imposes 10-day lockdown from May 12||Telangana government, led by chief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao, on Tuesday, announced a 10-day statewide lockdown in view of the sudden surge in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases. The lockdown will be implemented from tomorrow (i.e. May 12, Wednesday) till May 22. However, there would be relaxation for all the activities from 6am to 10am daily, following which only essential activities will be allowed for the remainder of the Covid-19 lockdown, the Telangana chief minister's office (CMO) said. The complete guidelines regarding the Telangana lockdown shall be issued shortly, people familiar with the development said.Also Read: Telangana govt extends night curfew; limits attendees at gatheringsThe Telangana government on Tuesday held a high-level meeting to decide on whether a statewide lockdown was necessary, in view of the Covid-19 situation. For this purpose, top state officials, under the chairmanship of the chief minister, held a meeting to discuss arguments for and against a complete lockdown, the Telangana CMO said. Notably, the development comes days after the Telangana government said last week that it will not impose a lockdown -- partial or total -- to contain the spread of coronavirus, as it will lead to the collapse of the financial system in the state."The Telangana state cabinet meeting discussing the pros and cons of a statewide lockdown will be conducted at 2pm at Pragathi Bhavan," the chief minister's office (CMO) had earlier said. Top state officials in Telangana discussed the recent surge of Covid-19 cases and take a decision in favour of or against the imposition of a complete lockdown, according to the Telangana CMO.In view of this, the State Cabinet would discuss the pros and cons of imposing lockdown including the adverse impact, if any, on the ongoing procurement of Paddy. The Cabinet will take a decision after the necessary deliberations.#TelanganaFightsCovid19Highlighting the matter of the Telangana lockdown, the CMO's official Twitter handle posted, "The opinion is divided among people on the question of imposing a lockdown. Some reports suggest that the number of Covid-19 cases has not come down in some of the Indian states despite the clamping of lockdown whereas some sections argue in favour of lockdown."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-to-soon-decide-on-covid-19-lockdown-high-level-meeting-underway-101620722095286.html
11-05-2021||India||WHO warns against use of Ivermectin for Covid-19 treatment||The World Health Organisation has recommended against using Ivermectin to treat patients with coronavirus disease but the anti-parasitic medicine is widely prescribed by doctors in India for the same. Goa government has even asked its adult population to take a five-day course, irrespective of their Covid status, to prevent complications. On Tuesday, a senior WHO scientist took to Twitter to reiterate the organisation’s recommendation. “Safety and efficacy are important when using any drug for a new indication. @WHO recommends against the use of ivermectin for #COVID19 except within clinical trials,” said Dr Soumya Swaminathan, chief scientist, World Health Organisation in a tweet. Also Watch | ‘Global disparity in vaccines biggest risk in ending pandemic’: WHO chiefShe also quoted a statement from pharmaceutical company Merck from February this year which states, “Our analysis has identified: *No scientific basis for a potential therapeutic effect against Covid-19 from pre-clinical studies; no meaningful evidence for clinical activity or clinical efficacy in patients with Covid-19 disease, and; a concerning lack of safety data in the majority of studies.” In India, the drug is a part of clinical guidance for management of adult Covid patients that was jointly released by Union health ministry, and Indian Council of Medical Research’s National Covid Task Force last month. As per the guidance, Ivermectin is advised for patients with mild Covid-19 disease under therapies based on low certainty of evidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-warns-against-use-of-ivermectin-for-covid-19-treatment-101620722605821.html
11-05-2021||India||Petrol, diesel prices hiked for sixth time in a month. Check where it is costliest||Petrol and diesel prices were hiked for the sixth time this month on Tuesday, forcing the rates to cross the ₹100-mark in several states. While petrol prices rose by 27 paise for every litre the price of a litre of diesel went up by 30 paise, according to a price notification by state-owned fuel retailers, news agency PTI reported.In Delhi, petrol now costs ₹91.8 per litre and diesel ₹82.36 for every litre. This was the sixth revision in the rates of fuel since May 4. In Mumbai, petrol is sold at ₹98.12 a litre while diesel costs ₹89.48 per litre.Meanwhile, in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra the fuel prices touched ₹100 per litre after the revision.Also read: Nadda writes to Sonia Gandhi, asks her to ‘stop misleading’ people over CovidPetrol and diesel are reportedly the most expensive in Sri Ganganagar district of Rajasthan, where petrol costs ₹102.7 per litre and diesel is priced at ₹95.06 a litre. Jaisalmer and Bikaner, also in Rajasthan, have also seen fuel prices rise above ₹100 even as in Barmer the prices stopped short of touching the century-mark, resting at ₹99.82 per litre.Shahdol ( ₹102.06), Rewa ( ₹102.04), Chhindwara ( ₹101.67) and Balaghat ( ₹101.98) in Madhya Pradesh have the costliest petrol. Bhopal and Indore will soon cross the mark in case of a new rise as petrol costs ₹99.9 a litre and ₹99.83 a litre there, respectively.Maharashtra's Prabhani also joined Nanded district in the state with the petrol price soaring above ₹100.The oil companies resumed the rate revision after an unexplained freeze and price reduction in April during a period that coincided with assembly elections in four states and one Union territory.Also read: Oil gains after cyber attack forces shutdown of US fuel pipelinesSoon after the elections were over the votes counted, the oil companies denoted the need for the pending increase in the retail prices in congruence with international oil market trends.Different states have different fuel prices owing to additional local taxes like VAT and freight charges levied on its transportation. Rajasthan has the highest value-added tax (VAT), followed by Madhya Pradesh.The opposition parties have criticised the Centre on numerous occasions for heavy taxation on fuel when the country is battling the coronavirus pandemic. Around 60 per cent of the retail selling price of petrol and 54% of diesel is central and state taxes.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/petrol-diesel-prices-hiked-for-sixth-time-in-a-month-check-where-it-is-costliest-101620717884350.html
11-05-2021||India||Labourers at Central Vista project follow Covid protocols: Centre tells Delhi HC||The Centre on Tuesday told the Delhi high court that the labourers engaged with the Central Vista Project reside at the construction site and they follow all the protocols and guidelines in place to check coronavirus infection.“The workers are staying on the site and, therefore, the notification relied upon by the petitioner is fully complied with. The petitioner is fully aware about this fact and he has deliberately suppressed it in the petition. While the arrangements for the stay of the workers were being made at the site, permission was sought for transportation of materials and labourers from Sarai Kale Khan camp to the work site, including permission for the movement of supervisory staff and such permission was valid till April 30,” the Centre told the Delhi HC.The Centre further said that a Covid-compliant facility was installed at the site of the project itself to accommodate the 250-odd workers who had expressed their willingness to stay put and continue their work. “The facility provides for strict implementation of Covid-19 protocol and also adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour, such as sanitisation, thermal screening, physical/social distancing and masking,” the Centre noted.The contractor has provided for health insurance of all the workers against Covid-19 and a separate facility for conducting the RT-PCR test, and has made arrangements for isolation area and medical aid at the site, the government told the court.The Centre stated that as per the Delhi Disaster Management Authority's (DDMA) order dated April 19, construction activities during curfew are permitted where labourers are residing on-site. In view of the same, it is unequivocally stated that the workers working on the project as of now, are residing at the work site, following social distancing norms as well as other Covid-19 protocols. It is false to suggest that any workers are brought from Sarai Kale Khan camp to the working site on a daily basis. The entire substratum of the case of the petitioner is erroneous and based on falsehood, it added.The Centre further told the Delhi high court that the very fact that out of all these construction activities going on simultaneously for different projects by different agencies, the petitioner has chosen to be a “public spirited citizen” only with regard to one project that speaks volumes about his intentions and motive behind filing the present petition that too suppressing all these facts. The very fact that the petitioner is selective about his “public interest” itself disentitles him from being entrusted with the writ of this court and the petition deserves to be dismissed as motivated by some undisclosed interest under the garb of “public interest”, it added.It may not be out of place to mention that the very fact that the petitioner not only suppressed material facts about the project in question but is selective about his ‘public interest’ requires to be viewed from one curious development which generally does not happen in bona fide public interest litigations. The petitioner rushed to the court in the midst of curfew selectively targeting one particular construction site, the Centre asserted.The Centre stated that a bona fide litigant who comes with clean hands would not only suppress the facts but wait for a few more days awaiting hearing before the court particularly when he has already moved the court belatedly and selectively. This again speaks volumes about the potential motive behind such public interest litigations.Talking about the scope of the project, the Centre said it is not what is colloquially referred to as “the Central Vista Project” (which includes Parliament, refurbishment of North Block, South Block, construction of new offices for central government -- common Central Secretariat, central conference facilities, etc.). The scope of work which is a subject matter of the present petition is limited to the redevelopment of Central Vista Avenue (i.e., both sides of the Rajpath) where Republic Day celebrations are held annually. This is a very important public space and most widely visited by the common public and tourists in Delhi. It may be noted that the scope of work is as follows--Providing public amenities like toilet blocks, paths, parking space, vendor zone, making four pedestrian underpasses below Janpath and C-Hexagon Road, improvement of canals, bridges, lawns, lights etc.Earlier in the day, a bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Jasmeet Singh allowed the early hearing petition filed by petitioners-- Anya Malhotra, who works as a translator and Sohail Hashmi, a historian and documentary filmmaker, seeking to stop the work in the raging coronavirus pandemic.Malhotra and Hashmi had moved the apex court against the high court’s May 4 order adjourning their plea to May 17.The high court had adjourned the matter saying it first wants to study the apex court’s January 5 judgment giving a go ahead to the Central Vista project.In the appeal before the Supreme Court, the petitioners had contended that the project was not an essential activity and therefore, it can be put on hold for now during the pandemic.“Labourers are being transported from Sarai Kale Khan and Karol Bagh area to Rajpath and Central Vista, where construction work is going on. This enhances chances of spread of Covid-19 infection among them,” Senior advocate Sidharth Luthra had told the apex court.Luthra urged the court to issue notice on the plea but the court said it would hear the matter on Wednesday. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta for the Centre told the court that he had filed a reply but the same was not on record. The matter has been adjourned for tomorrow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/labourers-at-central-vista-project-follow-covid-protocols-centre-tells-delhi-hc-101620717678842.html
11-05-2021||India||‘Vaccine is not 100% protective, but it’s highly effective’: Former CDC director||Tom Frieden, a former director of US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), runs Resolve to Save Lives, a global public health organisation. He lived in India from 1996 to 2002 when he worked with the World Health Organization and the World Bank. Frieden spoke to Sunetra Choudhury about the second wave of Covid-19 in India. Edited excerpts:What do you make of the situation?The whole world is watching India and sympathising with the great difficulty it is going through now. What we have learned is that this virus is a very challenging enemy... Right now, it is just humanity against the virus and what we must do is to save lives.Authorities in India have said that they were taken by surprise, that no one could have actually predicted this. What is your take on that?...there is a lot we do not know. So, I think the best thing we can all do is focus on the future as to what we can do to have better control of the situation to save lives and to keep our economy and our educational system going. The first thing to understand--and this is true everywhere in the world right now where you have uncontrolled spread--that you have to reduce the spread. You have to do that by universal indoor masking and by imposing closure on the hotspots that can lead to the exclusive spread and that means indoor closures, locking travel. These are some of the things that are driving the huge spread in countries around the world. But we’ve learned a lot; there are ways to close and be safer, but also keep the economy moving. We understand that the outdoors is generally safe. Though, with people out there being very close for a long time, that’s more of a problem. ...even if there were enough vaccines, it takes a long time to get them out and it takes weeks or months to develop immunity.Also Read | India registers 329,942 new Covid-19 cases, infection tally reaches 22.9 millionThe second thing very important to me is organisation. I’m not making any comment about India, but it is out of the experience of my organisation, which works with more than 40 countries...what’s very important is an organised response which somewhere means an incident management system. This is needed at national, sub-national, and local levels as a crucial component of epidemic response so that there is a clear organisation that is kind of a model centre.The third is to reduce deaths. ...it’s very important to provide clinical care and strategic vaccination. So, clinical care means organising rapid progression of oxygen and all the methods on clinical care. Also, for strategic vaccination, you look at who is dying or the age or the order of about two-thirds of the deaths or people over the age of 60. So, you really want to make sure you’ve got over 60 vaccinated as quickly as possible, understanding that this will still take many weeks or months to get it done. Vaccinating the elderly on priority is very important because the sad fact is that there are not enough vaccines in the world. And my organisation thinks that there should be more sharing of vaccines. We think that there should not be just an opening up of the intellectual property but also hands-on technology transfer to get all the effective vaccines including the mRNA vaccines to everyone.But because there aren’t enough vaccines in the short term, we really must focus on vaccinating two groups, health care workers and older people. Health care workers because...people don’t trust the health care system. You’re going to see many deaths not just because of Covid, but from many other conditions as well, from measles, rotavirus, and other vaccine-preventable diseases.Also Read | A new chapter for the TRIPS waiver proposal...We’ve seen a real setback in tuberculosis control. Fewer patients are coming forward to be diagnosed. ...in addition to my first point of closures, the second being organisation, third the clinical care, fourth the strategic vaccination, the fifth would be communication which means providing fair information on what’s known and when it’s known, establishing fair dashboards, establishing a risk alert system so people know what their risk is and that can be resolved by organisation.We’ve done this in the US by working with the newspaper The New York Times. So, you can see whatever community you’re in and what your risk probably is. It shows the equivalent of how far Covid is in my community.So, would you disagree with the way we opened up vaccines for all age groups above 18?I’m not in India, so I’m not seeing the realities there. And so, I would not like to comment on what’s happening there. What I can say is that in India, health workers are better there. But the Centre has a critically important role to play. I know that really, the efforts are being made to scale up vaccine production. I think in that area, there are a series of things that need to be done to save lives and also reduce the burden of Covid on health and society more generally.The models suggest, the better-targeted vaccines are, the more lives they will save. There is some controversy about that because, for example, in India, a lot of the spread is happening among younger people. And so, in theory, if you were to vaccinate the younger people, you could reduce stress and therefore have more of an impact that’s what I think ultimately of what we’ve learned about it....The virus... is going to be around for a while. I come back to a fundamental point that our most important priority is to reduce the risk of death.There is a lot of panic because of the high number of deaths. ICMR, our medical research body, has recorded that 4.5% of people were infected after being vaccinated. In India, there is anecdotal evidence of doctors who are fully vaccinated and yet dying after being infected. What would you say to people who are afraid because of this?US CDC has reported more than 100 deaths among people who have been vaccinated and appear to have gotten Covid...not all of them may have died of Covid but some of them certainly did. ...there is an old saying in the US, the only things certain in life are death and taxes... a vaccine is not 100% protection. There are breakthrough infections. Most of them are mild, but not all of them are mild. And so, we can’t assume complete protection from vaccinations, even if it’s a complete series, even if it’s the mRNA vaccines, which appear to be even more effective than the others. And that’s why it’s very important that we think of this as a multi-layered approach to increase protection.Also Read | Twitter donates USD 15 million for Covid-19 relief in India...vaccination will be more effective only if other people around you are also vaccinated because you will be safer, and the risk rate is lower. This is why we have emphasised the issue of risk alert levels, usually a four-level system or maybe a five-level system from extremely high, very high, moderate, and too low. To understand that if you’re vaccinated, you have an underlying condition or you’re 80 or 90 years old and you’re in a community that has a very high level of spread, you’re still going to have to be careful as compared to if you’re in a community with a low level of spread. We really have to understand the context and avoid concerns here. But fundamentally, the vaccine is not 100% protective, but it’s highly effective. What we need to understand is that vaccination works best in the context of a comprehensive program. I’ll give you an example. Israel has one of the highest vaccinations in the world. And because children are not vaccinated, there’s a mandate for children in schools to wear masks and they have not had outbreaks in schools since. So, there are many different components of making sure that we save lives. And vaccines are the most powerful, but they’re not yet as widely available as we wish they were.What about the variants emerging all the time? There’s an Indian variant, before this, the concern was the UK variant. Are the vaccines protecting us there?There’s still more information to come on this. Some of the variants appear to be able to evade immunity from some of the vaccines, but we don’t yet know to what extent and which variant and which vaccine. So, we’re going to have to learn more about that. But it does tell us that this is a really difficult virus to fight. And it’s important that we not only vaccinate but also reduce the uncontrolled spread anywhere in the world.We have the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine and Covaxin. The UK is offering an alternative to the under 40 population. Does that apply to the rest of the world as well? Well, I would leave that for national governments to recommend and for patients and their doctors to discuss. ...it does appear that with a J&J vaccine and likely the AstraZeneca, there is a very rare but potentially serious adverse effect on the number of who will be benefited...for the past at least three months, my organisation has been advocating opening up intellectual property and providing hands-on technology transfer to scale up mRNA vaccine production around the world. This is for the global public good. The mRNA vaccines are quicker to produce, they are more certain to produce and easier. It is not that easy, but it is less difficult to produce rapidly. They appear to provide a very robust level of immunity and they have not been associated, as we know so far, with the kind of rare adverse event. ...we have to deal with the world as it is today, not the world as we wish it would be. And certainly, someone living in an area that has the spread of Covid will want to strongly consider getting vaccinated. The mRNA vaccines are our insurance policy against variants, against the production delays with the other vaccines, and against the possible need for booster doses. It will take far longer than we wish to scale up our manufacturing and that’s why we need to start it today.Also Read | The second wave and the Indian StateOne of the ways that you advocate tackling Covid is with the help of statistics. When do you foresee places like India having a majority of its population vaccinated? Well, I can’t predict the future. I don’t know what’s going to happen with the vaccine production, but I know that there are not going to be enough vaccines as soon as we would wish. And that’s why closures and masking are very important in the short and medium term. I do think the world will get through this pandemic. I think we will ultimately get into a situation where we have limited Covid and we will still have outbreaks of clusters, but we will be at a new normal. I think masks will be part of the new normal in certain circumstances. For example, during influenza season, it’s very clear that masks have saved tens of thousands of lives from influenza by crushing the curve of influenza. I think people who are not feeling well as they do in East Asia should wear masks because this is affecting people around them. People with underlying health conditions, who are going into crowded areas, should wear mask because that will protect them from a wide range of infections. So, I think there is a real value to masks and if you look at countries like Singapore, regions like Hong Kong...the widespread use of masks...has been quite important in limiting Covid and other infections.In many countries, the real number of deaths is underreported. How important is it to have the actual numbers?Transparency is extremely important. We’ve seen lots of controversy about reporting deaths. We have worked with the World Health Organization. This is just one way of doing this... Covid disrupts the health care system and therefore people there die from a wide range of causes. That’s why it’s so important to protect the continued health care services such as immunisation. ...in nearly all countries, there are more deaths from Covid than the deaths reported. That is true for the United States and it’s true for most countries in the world. How much more? That’s a question that needs to be looked at in each country individually...fundamentally, an effective disease response system relies on real-time data to address the real-time response.Umar Sofi contributed to the story||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fundamentally-the-vaccine-is-not-100-protective-but-it-s-highly-effective-101620718825551.html
11-05-2021||India||After Buxar human corpses float, pile up at Uttar Pradesh||A day after bodies of suspected Covid patients washed up on banks of Ganga in Bihar's Buxar, some unidentified corpses were found floating in the Ghazipur district of Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday.The local administration has initiated the probe."Our officers are present on the spot to investigate and ascertain where they came from. A probe into the matter is underway," MP Singh, Ghazipur's District Magistrate told ANI.The local people, traumatised by the sight of floating human bodies in the Ganga, fear spreading of diseases in the area, which has not been spared by the ravaging Covid pandemic.They complained of stench coming from the bloated, decomposed corpses and accused the authorities of ineptitude."We informed the administration about the matter, but no action has been taken by them. If the situation continues like this, there is fear of us getting infected by Coronavirus," Akhand, a resident, told ANI.The incident of floating and piling up of corpses in Bihar sparked fears about the scale of the Covid crisis in the country. Authorities believe the relatives of those succumbed to the virus, may not have been able to find space for the last.Union Minister of Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat on Tuesday termed the incident as "unfortunate" and asked concerned states to take immediate cognizance."The incident of corpses found floating in Ganga in Buxar region of Bihar is unfortunate. This is definitely a matter of investigation. The Modi government is committed to the cleanliness 'mother' Ganga. This incident is unexpected. The concerned states should take immediate cognizance in this regard," Shekhawat tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-buxar-human-corpses-float-pile-up-at-uttar-pradesh-101620717991276.html
11-05-2021||India||Covid-19: The five elements of the Mumbai model||The devastating impact of India’s raging pandemic has largely been seen in Delhi, as the national Capital’s rising caseload was met with a shortage of medical oxygen and hospital beds for weeks at a stretch. Mumbai, with a higher population density, faced a shortage both of beds and oxygen as the second wave surged. However, the city, with a population of at least 12.3 million, was able to cope better earning it praise from both the Supreme Court and the Bombay High Court (HC) lauding the “Mumbai model”.On May 5, the top court recommended that Delhi should draw from Mumbai’s methods and experiences. A few days later, the Bombay HC asked municipal corporations from different states to follow the systems put in place by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to handle the Covid-19 pandemic.“The Mumbai model is a mix of decentralisation, augmenting infrastructure, and keeping a close watch on the loopholes in order to plug them. For example, we realised the importance of oxygen support for Covid-19 patients during its first wave. Back then, instead of relying on a cylinder-based model, we upgraded our facilities with Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) tanks. By the time the second wave hit us, our dependency on the cylinders had considerably reduced,” said additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani.HT spoke to several officials across the city to understand what constitutes the Mumbai model.24/7 operational, decentralised war rooms When Iqbal Chahal took over on May 8, 2020, as the municipal commissioner of the BMC, one of the crucial decisions he made was to decentralise the disaster control room – till then, a solitary unit — into 24 Covid response war rooms, one for each of the city’s administrative wards. They were functional in a month, each with its own dedicated helpline number that is connected to 30 lines. A mixed group of doctors, medical interns, schoolteachers, and social workers operated these lines 24/7 working in eight-hour shifts. The number of lines in each war room has not changed.Also Read | Doctors flag indiscriminate use of steroids, antibiotics in Covid-19 treatment“This system of someone from the BMC being in touch with the patients, helped avert chaos that could have occurred when the cases peaked,” Kakani said. Mumbai also made it mandatory for beds to be allotted only through these war rooms. When serious patients visited hospitals directly, the health care facilities were asked to promptly update the dashboard — a live bed tracker with details on the availability of Covid-19 bed in the public and private hospitals across the city, accessible to each war room.As the cases peaked in April 2021, touching a single day high of 11,206 cases on April 4, the war rooms bustled to accommodate patients on beds that were being occupied within a matter of a few minutes. “The bed status would change so quickly that we had to rush to call the hospital, or the bed would be allotted to someone by then,” said Dr Dhananjay More, a Bachelor of Ayurvedic Medicine and Surgery (BAMS) who works as a war room assistant medical officer in A-ward that covers Fort, Marine Drive, and Colaba areas.More, who was posted at a Covid-19 facility in Dharavi last year realised that this situation would only result in further panic. By the second week of April, several patients were being allotted beds that were far from their residence. In one instance, a 13-year-old girl from Fort was rushed to the NESCO facility in Goregaon, 29 km away, as her oxygen saturation dropped to 91% and there was no vacant oxygen bed in south Mumbai.Triage and testing reports As cases began to peak in the first wave, patients were turned away from hospitals for lack of beds, and ambulances equipped with oxygen fell short. Many hospitals also refused to accept patients without a Covid positive test results. This issue was largely addressed as the war rooms began to follow the triage system, and also streamlined the protocols surrounding test results. BMC’s war rooms played a crucial role in triaging, or determining the severity of a patient’s condition, their likelihood of recovery without treatment, and thus determining the priority of who to afford care to.The BMC’s triaging system also hinged on another controversial decision — it had forbidden the testing laboratories to share positive reports with patients in June 2020. Only negative reports were allowed to be shared directly, while the positive reports would be routed through the war rooms. “This method helped in ensuring that hospitals are not unnecessarily crowded,” said Dr Daksha Shah, deputy executive health officer of BMC. “When the war room made the first call to inform the positive report, the patient’s health and living conditions were understood and they would be accordingly guided for home isolation or hospitalisation,” she said.The civic body faced a backlash for forbidding laboratories to disclose the positive reports, but it refrained from giving in to the pressure. “Instead, we pressurised the laboratories to turn around the reports faster, so that there was no delay in updating the patients from our side,” said Shah. The laboratories were asked to enter data of processed samples between midnight to 6am so that patients could be told their positive status through the war rooms starting from 8am every day.Also Watch | ‘They slept on warnings’: Asaduddin Owaisi attacks Modi govt over Covid crisisTo tackle the second wave better, each war room formed a team of doctors to visit patients and ascertain if they need immediate hospitalisation. “In some cases, panicked relatives and friends exaggerated the severity even as the patient’s parameters were normal,” said Dr More. “When in doubt, we started dispatching doctors to visit such patients and assess their condition,” he said. The primary healthcare workers were also directed for this task if doctors were unavailable. Those living in slums were strictly directed to isolation centres if they did not have access to isolate; those with separate rooms and toilets were allowed home isolation, based on their health condition.Augmenting beds, retaining jumbo facilitiesThe number of hospital beds, including Intensive Care Unit (ICU) and oxygenated beds was increased to 1.5 times more than what the city had during the first wave. The jumbo field hospitals that were created during the first wave were retained even when the cases fell drastically, and the admissions dropped. For instance, in January 2021, the NESCO jumbo facility in Goregaon had only three patients admitted in its 200 bed ICU and only 29 patients in its wards with 1,900 beds. “We had to reduce our staff at that point in time, but the entire facility was retained as it is,” said Dr Neelam Andrade, dean of the NESCO facility.A crucial decision in BMC’s war against Covid-19 was to take over 80% of beds in private hospitals in May 2020, and which was reactivated as the second wave struck. The private hospital beds were incorporated in the dashboard accessed by the war room, empowering BMC to allot beds in the public as well as the private sector. Of the 23,209 hospital beds in Mumbai for Covid-19, 7,890 are in the private sector. Of the 2,961 ICUs, 1571 are in the private sector.Last June, the civic body also deployed 800 Sumo vehicles with aluminium partition sheets between the driver and passengers, to ferry people to the hospital. These vehicles were made available on Uber, an application for hiring cabs. However, patients requiring oxygen equipped ambulances struggled.Oxygen supply managementIn 2020, when Mumbai’s Covid-19 facilities were expanded, the civic body also began building storage tanks for Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO). Between May and June last year, it had installed 15 LMO tanks with a capacity of 13 kilolitres each and 11 smaller tanks with a capacity of up to six kilolitres each in the city’s six civic-run hospitals and six jumbo Covid-19 centres. “Nearly half of these tanks were redundant infrastructure at that point in time,” says additional municipal commissioner P Velrasu, who was tasked to oversee Mumbai’s oxygen supply and distribution. “We were not sure if they would be used. But we took the bold decision of building them, and that saved us during the second wave,” he said.Mumbai’s oxygen management model had a multipronged approach — in addition to building storage infrastructure, teams were appointed to ensure smooth movement of oxygen tanks reaching the city, staff was placed at a cylinder refilling station in Navi Mumbai to ensure that city’s quota of cylinders are not directed elsewhere and usage of oxygen in hospitals was closely monitored, sensitising doctors and paramedics to use it rationally.On the midnight of April 17, 168 patients from six civic-run hospitals were shifted to its jumbo facilities after they ran out of oxygen. Of these, 30 were ICU patients. “We realised that hospitals were admitting more patients with oxygen requirements even as they did not have optimal oxygen capacity,” said Velrasu, adding that many such hospitals were pulled up by the civic body. “For example, the Parsee General Hospital in south Mumbai had only 30 oxygen beds but had admitted 80 patients on oxygen support. Many hospitals like PGH would fast deplete their oxygen and would then start the panic calls. This was all happening at the same time when many jumbo facilities had empty oxygen beds. Patients had their hospital preferences, but we strictly advised hospitals to direct patients to other facilities instead of over-admitting,” said Velrasu.Also Read | Goa wants all adults to take Ivermectin. Here’s why FDA warned against its useCivic chief Iqbal Chahal formed six zonal teams in Mumbai to take over oxygen management at four wards each. These teams consisted of senior medical officers, administration staff, and oxygen suppliers. When any hospital in a particular zone sent out an SOS for oxygen, the zonal team would take charge to either direct surplus oxygen from other facilities or shift patients, if needed. In one instance, when a small hospital in the F North ward with half a dozen patients on oxygen was fast depleting its stock, the zonal team sprang into action and directed cylinders from the civic-run Sion Hospital. From 210 metric tonnes in the first wave, Mumbai’s oxygen demand shot up to 270 MT during the peak of the second wave. “But multiple, well-coordinated efforts, sustained us,” said Velrasu.Data led the way The civic body’s thrust on numbers helped in focusing on areas where more cases were being reported from. Data played a crucial role in forming micro-containment zones, limiting the movement of people from such areas. “We closely monitored the rise and fall of cases in wards and intensified our activities accordingly,” said Shah. “For example, when R Central (Borivali) and G South (Worli, Lower Parel) wards were reporting more cases, we directed the medical officer to intensify contact tracing, testing, and micro containment zones,” she said. The civic body also resorted to stringent steps like filing First Information Reports against people who broke the containment rules. As of May 8, the city has 581 active micro containment zones. Quick, accessible data on the dashboard that was made available to all war rooms also played an important role in making the process of bed allotment more efficacious.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-the-five-elements-of-the-mumbai-model-101620718405712.html
11-05-2021||India||Goa wants all adults to take Ivermectin. Here's why FDA warned against its use||Goa health minister Vishwajit Rane on Monday said that all adults -- everyone above the age of 18 in the state -- will be given the Ivermectin antiparasitic drug irrespective of their coronavirus disease (Covid-19) status. Although the minister claimed that the medicine has been found to bring down the Covid-19 mortality rate in several countries, the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) had warned against its use in treating coronavirus patients back in April last year.Also Read: Every adult in Goa, irrespective of Covid-19 status, to be given Ivermectin drugNot just the FDA, the Union ministry of health and family welfare had also opted out from including Ivermectin in its official Clinical Management Protocol for Covid-19 last year. Experts of the central government's joint monitoring group and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)'s Covid-19 task force held a meeting to deliberate upon the issue and decided not to include Ivermectin in the clinical management protocol "because of lack of sufficient evidence on its efficacy based on randomised trials held in India and abroad," news agency PTI reported, citing ministry sources.What is Ivermectin?Ivermectin is a medication mainly used to treat various types of parasite infections. According to the FDA, Ivermectin is a veterinary drug, often used in the US to treat or prevent parasites in animals. Ivermectin tablets are approved at very specific doses for some parasitic worms, and there are topical (on the skin) formulations for head lice and skin conditions like rosacea. Still, Ivermectin preparations for animals are very different from those approved for humans.Ivermectin is not an anti-viral (a drug for treating viruses), as such, but its use in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) treatment is an unconventional application, according to experts.What have studies found?A report, published in Antiviral Research in June last year, clearly mentioned that Ivermectin "warrants further investigation for possible benefits in humans". The drug generated widespread excitement in medical and veterinary journals, which incorrectly described it as a treatment or cure for Covid-19, the report said.Studies showed that doses much higher than the maximum approved or safely achievable limit for use in humans would be required to achieve an antiviral effect. Such high doses have not been approved for human use, since it would actually prove toxic considering the drug is said to operate via the suppression of a host cellular process.Also Read: Ivermectin not to be included in Centre’s coronavirus management protocolAlthough a research group in India summarised the results of four small studies on Ivermectin as a treatment for Covid-19 and showed that there was a statistically significant improvement in survival rate among patients, the authors clearly stated that the quality of the evidence was low and further trials are needed to determine its effectiveness.A systemic review in November last year concluded that there's "weak evidence" of Ivermectin's benefit when used as add-on therapy in non-severe Covid-19 cases. No difference was found in patients who received a placebo and others who received Ivermectin in a randomised controlled trial (RCT) that year.FDA's warning against IvermectinThe FDA found it necessary last year to issue a warning against Ivermectin's use in Covid-19 treatment, as the evidence is not solid enough to come to a conclusion based on multiple small-scale studies.Ivermectin is recommended against in Covid-19 treatment by the FDA, the European Medicines Agency, and the United States National Institutes of Health -- all of which have stated that better studies and larger trials are needed to determine if the drug has any actual benefits.The World Health Organization (WHO) has also warned against the use of Ivermectin for Covid-19, except within clinical trials. Saumya Swaminathan, the chief scientist at WHO, tweeted out earlier this day, saying "Safety and efficacy are important when using any drug for a new indication."Safety and efficacy are important when using any drug for a new indication. @WHO recommends against the use of ivermectin for #COVID19 except within clinical trials https://t.co/dSbDiW5tCWDr Swaminathan attached a statement from Merck, the German healthcare corporation, on Ivermectin use during the Covid-19 pandemic.Directives issued in GoaThe state of Goa, however, is proceeding on the path of providing every adult with Ivermectin, despite the lack of strong evidence advocating its benefits.Goa health minister Vishwajit Rane said that patients will be given Ivermectin 12mg for a period of five days as expert panels from the UK, Italy, Spain, and Japan have found a statistically significant reduction in mortality, time to recovery, and viral clearance in Covid-19 patients treated with this medicine.The minister said this treatment would not prevent Covid-19 infection but it can help reduce the severity of the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-wants-all-adults-to-take-ivermectin-here-s-why-fda-warned-against-its-use-101620711053627.html
11-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Kejriwal urges Centre to let more firms produce vaccines and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Enable more firms to produce Covid-19 vaccines, Kejriwal urges CentreDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said the Centre should divide the responsibility of producing vaccine for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) between more firms in order to meet the high demand. Read MoreCovid-19: All adults in Goa to be given Ivermectin drug; WHO warns against itAll adults in Goa will be given Ivermectin, irrespective of their vaccination status, to prevent complications arising out of Covid-19 infection. Read MorePM Modi salutes hardwork of scientists on National Technology DayPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday saluted the hard work of the scientists on the occasion of National Technology Day and remembered the 1998 Pokhran nuclear tests. Read MoreSecond wave may slams brakes on car sales, bookings and production under threatAt a time when buying cylinders and medicines has become top priorities in the midst of a raging second wave of Covid-19 pandemic, it is quite obvious that a large investment into something like a car is likely to take a backseat. Read More'This is no disrespect to the players': Ambrose makes startling declaration about West Indies cricketFast bowling great Curtly Ambrose has remarked that West Indies will not witness the same success as the 80s and 90s again as the current lot of players have not understood how much the game means to the people of the region. Read MoreVideo of elderly couple dancing their hearts out proves that age is just a numberSeveral videos on the Internet featuring elderly people shaking a leg to some peppy tunes are the perfect proof of the notion- age is just a number. Read MoreFarhan Akhtar denies getting unfair access to drive-in vaccine centre due to celeb status, shares screenshot of bookingFarhan Akhtar put to rest speculation that he got access to a drive-in vaccination facility in Mumbai because of his privilege. Read More‘People not just dying of Covid’: WHO Chief scientist on India’s Covid situationWorld Health Organisation (WHO) Chief Scientist Soumya Swaminathan termed the rate of infections and deaths in India as ‘worrying’ and called on governments to boost exercises on reporting actual numbers. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-kejriwal-urges-centre-to-let-more-firms-produce-vaccines-and-all-the-latest-news-101620716316052.html
11-05-2021||India||Uttarakhand, Haryana, Bihar now among states with highest Covid-19 deaths, active cases||The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in India recorded an exponential rise in the past one month. From reporting around 72,000 cases at the beginning of April to reporting over 400,000 infections for four consecutive days in May, there has been more than five times a surge in the daily count of cases.While states like Maharashtra, Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu continue to be the major contributors of the active caseload of the country, smaller states like Uttarakhand, Haryana, West Bengal and Bihar are now also among the top contributors.States like Rajasthan, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Chhattisgarh registered a huge rise in Covid-19 related deaths in the last 40 days. The national capital, which used to report nearly 20 daily deaths till last month, recorded its highest single-day toll of more than 400 deaths. Karnataka, too, is reporting over 400 daily fatalities regularly. More than 200 to 300 people succumb to the viral disease routinely in Delhi and Uttar Pradesh.Also read| Covid-19: All adults in Goa to be given Ivermectin drug; WHO warns against itMore than 10 states account for over 73% of fatalities in the country. States like Uttarakhand, Haryana and Bihar are also among the top 10. Uttarakhand, which was reporting double-digit deaths until April, logged 180 fatalities from Covid-19 on May 10. Haryana also witnessed an upsurge in infections. A major Covid-19 hotspot in the country, Gurugram in Haryana reported more than 150 deaths in a single day on May 10.West Bengal, Haryana, and Bihar are among the 13 states with more than 100,000 active Covid-19 cases currently. While Maharashtra has the highest active caseload of the country as of May 10 with more than 600,000 cases, West Bengal has 126,027, Haryana has over 116,000 and Bihar with nearly 111,000 cases, the Union health ministry data showed.As per a previous report by Hindustan Times, Gurugram, Dehradun and Kolkata are emerging as the new Covid-19 hotspots in India. While as per the government data Jharkhand is not among the top states with the highest deaths, but the state has reported the highest rise in fatalities. As of the first week of May, Jharkhand reported 4.3 times to rise in the fatalities reported in the state.Most of the states and Union territories are now under self-imposed Covid-19 curbs to break the chain of transmission and contain the spread. The viral multiplication of the contagion has increased the country's tally to nearly 23 million. India on Tuesday reported 329,942 new Covid-19 cases and 3,876 deaths in the last 24 hours, the Covid-19 dashboard of the ministry showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-haryana-bihar-now-among-states-with-highest-covid-19-deaths-active-cases-101620711927428.html
11-05-2021||India||Writer-screenwriter Madampu Kunjukuttan passes away at 81 in Thrissur||Writer and screenwriter Madampu Kunjukuttan, passed away at a private hospital in Thrissur after being diagnosed with Covid-19 on Tuesday.Born on June 23, 1941, Kunjukuttan was 81 years old.He won the National Film Award for Best Screenplay in the year 2000 for the Malayalam film Karunam, directed by Jayaraj.He has also written the screenplay for many Malayalam films.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/writerscreenwriter-madampu-kunjukuttan-passes-away-at-81-in-thrissur-101620715839680.html
11-05-2021||India||Jal Shakti minister asks concerned states to take immediate cognisance of floating corpses in Ganga||Union Minister of Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat on Tuesday termed the incident of corpses found floating in Ganga river in Bihar as "unfortunate" and asked concerned states to take immediate cognizance."The incident of corpses found floating in Ganga in Buxar region of Bihar is unfortunate. This is definitely a matter of investigation. The Modi government is committed to the cleanliness 'mother' Ganga. This incident is unexpected. The concerned states should take immediate cognizance in this regard," Shekhawat tweeted.Around a dozen of corpses were spotted in the Ganga river in Bihar's Buxar on Monday."10 to 12 corpses that were seen in Ganga came floating from a distance. It seems these corpses were floating for the last five to seven days. We do not have a tradition of immersing bodies in rivers. We are making arrangements to cremate these corpses," said KK Upadhyay, Buxar Sub Divisional Officer (SDO).Upadhyay said it is a matter of investigation to ascertain if these corpses come from Varanasi, Allahabad, or any other place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jal-shakti-minister-asks-concerned-states-to-take-immediate-cognisance-of-floating-corpses-in-ganga-101620714875128.html
11-05-2021||India||PM Modi salutes hardwork of scientists on National Technology Day||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday saluted the hard work of the scientists on the occasion of National Technology Day and remembered the 1998 Pokhran nuclear tests. "On National Technology Day, we salute the hard work and tenacity of our scientists and those passionate about technology. We remember with pride the 1998 Pokhran Tests, which demonstrated India’s scientific and technological prowess," PM Modi tweeted.PM Modi said that in any challenging situation, the scientists and innovators have always risen to the occasion and worked to mitigate the challenge. "Over the last year, they have worked industriously to fight Covid-19. I appreciate their spirit and remarkable zeal," he added.National Technology Day is celebrated every year in India on May 11 to commemorate the achievements of engineers and scientists in the field of science and technology.This year, the theme of the National Technology Day is 'Science and Technology for a Sustainable Future'.On May 11, 1998, India conducted three successful nuclear tests at the Indian Army's Pokhran Test Range in Rajasthan under Operation Shakti, which was led by late president Dr APJ Abdul Kalam. Two more nuclear tests were conducted on May 13.On this day, India also tested its first indigenous aircraft ‘Hansa-3’ designed by National Aerospace Laboratory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-salutes-hardwork-of-scientists-on-national-technology-day-101620712133612.html
11-05-2021||India||J&K L-G talks to political leaders for inputs on handling Covid in UT||Jammu & Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha spoke to senior leaders of various political parties over the phone, seeking their suggestion in handling the Covid-19 pandemic better.Sinha said that the representatives of public and political leaders have an important role to play in these trying times. “Let us all come together to protect and save precious lives by discharging our duty towards the society,” he said.Also Read | 18+ vaccination drive moves at snail’s pace as J&K awaits stocksAmong the leaders Sinha spoke to were Dr. Farooq Abdullah, Member of Parliament & National Conference president; Ghulam Nabi Azad, Former MP Rajya Sabha, and Congress leader; Dr. Nirmal Singh & Muzaffar Baig, former deputy chief ministers; GA Mir, president, JKPCC; Altaf Bukhari, founding president, J&K Apni Party; Saifudin Soz, Congress; Bhim Singh, president, National Panthers Party; Sajad Lone, president, J&K Peoples’ Conference; Ravinder Raina, BJP J&K president; Devender Singh Rana, National Conference leader, and Ravinder Sharma, JKPCC.Sinha also invited their suggestions for strengthening the measures being taken by the government to curtail the spread of the virus.The leaders assured the Lt Governor of their cooperation to the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jklg-talks-to-political-leaders-for-inputs-on-handling-covid-in-ut-101620713305166.html
11-05-2021||India||ED files money laundering case against ex-Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Tuesday registered a case of money laundering against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh. The case, under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), was registered on the basis of an FIR filed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), said people familiar with the development.The CBI case claims that ex-Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh and “unknown others” had used their official position to obtain an undue advantage, as well as influenced the transfers and postings in the Mumbai Police, as alleged by former city police commissioner Param Bir Singh. ED was probing the financial aspects of the CBI case, as the central anti-money laundering agency is mandated to do so in any scheduled offense.Also Read: CBI submits interim report in Anil Deshmukh caseFormer Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh had alleged that Anil Deshmukh, when he was the Maharashtra home minister, had asked the then assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze to collect ₹100 crore every month from hotels, bars, and restaurants in Mumbai. Vaze, later suspended, is currently behind bars in the February 25 Antilia explosives scare case as well as the alleged murder of businessman Mansukh Hiran on March 5.CBI found "prima facie" truth in these allegations after the Bombay high court asked the premier anti-corruption agency to look into the allegations against Anil Deshmukh as part of a preliminary inquiry. Later, the case was converted into a regular First Information Report (FIR) and the agency teams raided the former Maharashtra home minister's residences in Mumbai and Nagpur last Saturday. The ED has said that it was "looking into" the CBI FIR, considering that the allegations involving a ₹100 crore sum each month are "huge" and warrants a case of public importance.Also Read: Trouble looms for former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh after FIRThe “unknown others” named by CBI in its FIR are suspected to be other government officials in Maharashtra who will now be probed formally. Unlike the CBI, the ED can record a statement from any person in a case under section 50 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) and it is admissible as evidence in court.Meanwhile, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) -- an ally in the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition government in the state -- has called the actions against former state home minister Anil Deshmukh in the alleged extortion racket case as "politically motivated".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-registers-money-laundering-case-against-ex-maharashtra-minister-anil-deshmukh-101620712096718.html
11-05-2021||India||Newly-elected Tamil Nadu MLAs take oath||Newly-elected MLAs of the 16th legislative assembly in Tamil Nadu took oath on Tuesday, a day after former chief minister and All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) leader Edappadi K. Palaniswami was unanimously elected leader of the legislative party to become the leader of opposition in the state assembly. The ceremony took place at Chennai's Kalaivanar Arangam hall at 10am. Election to the post of speaker and deputy speaker will be held on May 12 at 10am. Senior MLA M Appavu is expected to be sworn in as the speaker and K Pitchandi as the deputy speaker after the ruling Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) on Monday declared them as its candidates to the two top posts in the House, news agency PTI reported.Also Read: Edappadi Palaniswami is AIADMK’s leader in Tamil Nadu assemblyDMK chief MK Stalin was sworn in as the state's eighth chief minister by governor Banwarilal Purohit on May 7.In the recently concluded state election, the DMK won 133 seats out of the total 234 segments and along with its allies, including Congress, emerged victorious in 159 constituencies. The AIADMK won 66 seats and its allies, the PMK and BJP, bagged five and four constituencies respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/newlyelected-tamil-nadu-mlas-take-oath-101620694591486.html
11-05-2021||India||Covid-19: All adults in Goa to be given Ivermectin drug; WHO warns against it||All adults in Goa will be given Ivermectin, irrespective of their vaccination status, to prevent complications arising out of Covid-19 infection. Ivermectin is a drug used to treat many types of parasite infestations, and it does not prevent Covid-19, but can help reduce the severity, said state health minister Vishwajit Rane.“I have given instructions for immediate implementation of prophylaxis (action taken to prevent disease) treatment,” Rane said.“People will be given Ivermectin 12mg for a period of five days. Expert panels from the UK, Italy, Spain and Japan, found a large, statistically significant reduction in mortality, recovery time, and viral clearance in Covid-19 patients treated with Ivermectin,” Rane said on Monday.Also Read | Remove age limits in Covid-19 vaccination: Goa health minister“The tablet will be made available at all the district, sub-district, PHCs (primary health centres), CHCs (Community Health Centres), Sub Health Centers, RMDs (Rural Medical Dispensaries) as well as GMC (Goa Medical College and Hospital). People can collect the medicine and start taking it immediately, irrespective of symptoms,” he said.Also Watch | ‘People not just dying of Covid…’: WHO Chief scientist on India’s Covid situation“However, this should not give one a false sense of security and complacency and they should continue to take all the precautionary measures and follow laid down SOPs,” Rane said.Goa on Monday recorded 2,804 new cases of coronavirus, taking its tally to 121,650, while 50 more fatalities pushed the toll to 1,729, a health official said.Meanwhile, the World Health Organization on Tuesday recommended against the general use of ‘ivermectin’ for treatment of Covid-19 patients.“Safety and efficacy are important when using any drug for a new indication. WHO recommends against use of ‘ivermectin’ for COVID-19 except within clinical trials,” Dr Soumya Swaminathan, WHO chief scientist, tweeted.Safety and efficacy are important when using any drug for a new indication. @WHO recommends against the use of ivermectin for #COVID19 except within clinical trials https://t.co/dSbDiW5tCWA similar warning has also been issued by German healthcare and life sciences giant Merck, whose statement Dr Swaminathan attached to her tweet. Merck said its scientists continue to “carefully examine findings of all available and emerging studies of ‘ivermectin’ for treatment of COVID-19”.“We do not believe the data available support the safety and efficacy of ‘ivermectin’ beyond the doses and populations indicated in the regulatory agency-approved prescribing information,” Merck said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-adults-in-goa-to-be-given-ivermectin-to-prevent-covid-complications-101620711504877.html
11-05-2021||India||India registers 329,942 new Covid-19 cases, infection tally reaches 22.9 million||India on Tuesday witnessed a slight decline in the number of daily coronavirus disease (Covid-19) spike, registering 329,942 such cases in the preceding 24 hours. With this, the country's cumulative coronavirus infection tally has now reached 22,992,517. Official data from the Union ministry of health and family welfare's dashboard at 10am also showed that 3,876 new fatalities were recorded in the last 24 hours, taking India's Covid-19 death toll to 249,992.Also Read: Covid-19: What you need to know todayIndia currently battles the second wave of the coronavirus disease pandemic, although experts have warned that preparations need to be made at the earliest for an "inevitable" third wave. Yesterday, the country had marked 366,161 fresh Covid-19 cases and 3,754 new deaths from the disease. This was still a marginal dip from the over four lakh new cases that were added on Monday, but the daily spike continues hovering at alarming levels, nonetheless.There are currently 3,715,221 active Covid-19 cases in India, data from the health ministry shows; this accounts for 16.53% of the total cases. As many as 19,027,304 patients have been discharged till now, after being treated for Covid-19. The national recovery rate resides at 82.39%, while the mortality rate is at 1.09%, according to official data.#CoronaVirusUpdates: 📍Total #COVID19 Cases in India (as on May 11, 2021)▶️82.75% Cured/Discharged/Migrated (1,90,27,304)▶️16.16% Active cases (37,15,221)▶️1.09% Deaths (2,49,992)Total COVID-19 confirmed cases = Cured/Discharged/Migrated+Active cases+Deaths#StaySafe pic.twitter.com/f5SuvflzEHMeanwhile, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has said that 305,600,187 samples have been tested for Covid-19 till now, of which 1,850,110 samples were tested yesterday. The central government said 172,710,066 vaccine doses have been administered so far, of which 2,503,756 were administered in the last 24 hours.Of all the new Covid-19 cases across the world, India contributed 53.1% of the new infections on May 2 and 52.7% on May 3, data analysed by Hindustan Times shows. Hospitals around the country have been overwhelmed by the fresh wave of Covid-19 infections with oxygen supplies running short in medical facilities due to the sudden surge in demand. People are running from pillar to post to secure even basic medicines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-registers-329-942-new-covid-19-cases-infection-tally-reaches-22-9-million-101620703068381.html
11-05-2021||India||3 arrested for allegedly raping health worker in Assam’s Cachar||Three men allegedly raped a health care worker in Assam’s Cachar district on Sunday while she was returning home after work. One of the three allegedly took her to a hostel and raped her there along with two other men after offering her a lift. The woman was found to be Covid-19 positive and prompted police to get the three arrested accused tested and put them under isolation at a local police station.The police team, which arrested the three on Monday, also will undergo Covid tests.Also Read | Two tribal girls allege rape in AssamThe woman, who is a single mother of two, has undergone medical tests and has been asked to remain in home isolation. Police have informed her family that she is depressed. “Once she tried to lock herself in a room, she was talking about committing suicide also. She has stopped eating and is not talking to anyone. Her kids are very young, and we all are very worried that she might take the wrong step any moment,” said a family member of the woman, who belongs to the Manipuri community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-arrested-for-allegedly-raping-health-worker-in-assam-s-cachar-101620706764618.html
11-05-2021||India||Covid-19: Maharashtra may extend lockdown till May-end||Maharashtra is likely to extend the Covid-19 lockdown till May-end even as it reported the lowest single-day spike in infections in 41 days. With 37,236 infections (27,918 cases were reported on March 30), the state’s tally went up to 5,138,973, while the toll rose to 76,398 with 549 more deaths.The dip in cases on Monday came amid a drop in the number of tests to 192,330 in 24 hours, below the daily average of over 2,50,000 tests over the past few weeks. The test positivity rate on Monday stood at 19.36%, against the weekly rate of 20.82%. Mumbai, too, reported its lowest one-day spike in 56 days (1,782 cases), after reporting 1,713 infections on March 15.The state government is all set to extend its current lockdown by another two weeks after it ends at 7am on May 15. The lockdown will be as strict as it is currently, while in some districts where the cases are on the rise, the local administrations are expected to impose stricter curbs. The decision is expected to be taken in the state cabinet on Wednesday. Cases are on the rise in 21 districts and dropping in 15, including Mumbai and Thane.Also Read | Maharashtra sees rise in vaccinations with 288,581 beneficiaries on MondayThe slowed-down vaccination drive is another reason for the extension of the lockdown.“Though the daily caseload has stabilised over the past few weeks, it is still at the average of over 55,000, which is much higher than the peak of the first wave, when the highest daily peak was 24,886 cases on September 11 last year. We will still have to follow stricter curbs to bring the cases down. The strain on the health infrastructure has been reduced significantly with more than 25% of beds in the state vacant. In some districts, the percentage is 40. But some districts like Kolhapur, Sangli are witnessing a rise in the number of cases. More than half the districts are still logging a rise in daily cases. In such a scenario, the lockdown will continue in its current form at least for two more weeks,” said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-maharashtra-may-extend-lockdown-till-mayend-101620706284742.html
11-05-2021||India||MP quacks face crackdown for ‘treating’ Covid patients amid surge in cases||Police in Madhya Pradesh’s Dewas were looking for a quack after a video purportedly showing him administering intravenous fluids to four people in the truck they arrived in for treatment for cold and diarrhoea went viral on Sunday. The video was the latest in a series of videos that have surfaced and highlighted the problem of quackery in the state and prompted authorities to form teams of officials to crack down on the practice amid a surge in Covid-19 infections.The health department has issued directions for identifying quacks as scores of them have been identified and arrested in recent weeks. The state home department on Monday ordered the formation of groups at the village and block levels to create awareness against quackery.“The district collectors have been asked to make a list of quacks to track their activities in the villages. Crises management groups will identify the suspects and hold awareness among people,” said health minister Prabhuram Choudhary.Also Read | ‘MP’s Covid-19 positivity rate declining, but can’t be relaxed’: CM ChouhanAgar Malwa district collector Avdhesh Sharma said they have identified about 350 quacks and acted against them in the last fortnight. “The villagers are more relying on quacks due to misinformation being spread on social media about Covid-19.”Bhind police superintendent Manoj Kumar Singh said they have identified around 400 quacks. “We sent their samples for Covid-19 testing and found eight of them positive. We have registered cases under Sections 120 B (criminal conspiracy) and 420 (fraud) of the Indian Penal Code.”Quacks have been caught in places such as Bhopal, Dewas, Agar Malwa, Vidisha, Raisen, and Bhind treating patients in a tin shed, garage, orchard, and a truck.In the first week of May, a quack, Devidas, was booked for treating a patient in an orchard in Agar Malwa. Surjan Narwaria and Hakim Singh were booked for claiming to be treating a suspected Covid-19 patient in the same district and were found to have been infected. In Vidisha district, Abdul Kareem was arrested while treating Covid 19 suspects.Prahlad Singh, a resident of village Rajpura, said people were reluctant to go for testing and treatment of Covid 19 as they fear getting quarantined. “They are also being misguided by quacks that they would not survive if they went for treatment of Covid-19. Here in my village, almost every second house has suspected patients, but they are not going for testing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-quacks-face-crackdown-for-treating-covid-patients-amid-surge-in-cases-101620703584363.html
11-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Partly cloudy sky with a chance of thunder in Delhi and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9am on Tuesday (May 11, 2021). Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Partly cloudy sky with a chance of thunder, lightning in Delhi todayDelhi is likely to see a partly cloudy sky on Tuesday with the possibility of thunder and lightning, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. Read More‘Migration pact will help return illegal settlers, offenders’: UK home secretary Priti PatelThe new India-UK migration and mobility partnership and a proposed British law on migration will facilitate the movement of Indian professionals and simultaneously streamline the process of returning illegal migrants and offenders, British home secretary Priti Patel said on Monday. Read MoreChina's population grew only 5% over past decade to pass 1.4 billion, shows census dataChina's population has grown more than five percent over the past decade to pass 1.4 billion people, Beijing said Tuesday, as it unveiled its census results. China's birthrate has been in steady decline since 2017, despite Beijing's relaxation of the decades-old "one-child policy" in order to try and avert a looming demographic crisis. Read MoreWATCH: Huge crowd in UP's Badaun for religious leader's funeral amid CovidA massive crowd was seen in Uttar Pradesh's Badaun amid the Covid wave and curfew. A huge crowd descended on the streets for a funeral procession of a local religious leader. Watch here‘Fairness of selection; only the best gets picked’: Sourav Ganguly on India’s recent success in international cricketVirat Kohli-led Indian Cricket Team has emerged as the cricketing powerhouse in recent times. Ever since international cricket resumed after the Covid-19 halt, Team India has been showcasing its excellence in both home and overseas conditions. Read MoreNikki Tamboli deletes emotional note on brother’s death, shares new post: ‘A million words would not bring you back’Bigg Boss 14 finalist and actor Nikki Tamboli deleted an Instagram post in which she talked about how she is unable to cope with her brother’s death. On Monday, she had shared an emotional note, admitting that she cries herself to sleep almost every night. Read MorePriyanka Chopra is magic in white off-shoulder top, jeans and red lipstickPriyanka Chopra is a global icon. From being an acclaimed actor, a singer, a fashionista, and the owner of a haircare line, the stunner has a lot of feathers on her cap. She recently added another one. The fashionista became the face of a makeup brand. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-partly-cloudy-sky-with-a-chance-of-thunder-in-delhi-and-all-the-latest-news-101620701954678.html
11-05-2021||India||Apps like Unqualified Setu, NoWin won't save, but 2 jabs of vaccine will: Rahul Gandhi||Referring to the apps, Aarogya Setu and CoWin, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi attacked the Centre's policies for Covid-19 control and said that "Unqualified Setu and NoWin" will not save, but two jabs of Covid vaccine will do so."Message to the app-dependent PM Modi government: Unfortunately, Covid-19 is spreading to those who do not have internet facility-that is, more than half the population of the country! Apps like 'Unqualified Setu and NoWin' will not save, but rather two jabs of vaccine will", tweeted Gandhi in Hindi.The Congress Working Committee met today amidst an unprecedented public health crisis."The second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic is nothing short of a grave calamity and a direct consequence of the PM Modi government's indifference, insensitivity and incompetence. It is the direct result of the central government's wilful disregard for scientific advice, its premature declaration of victory over the pandemic (that turned out to be just the first wave), and its unwillingness and inability to plan in spite of warnings sounded not only by public health experts but also by the Standing Committee of Parliament," stated a press release by the Congress party.The Congress Working Committee is concerned about the Modi government's vaccination strategy. Vaccine supplies are insufficient, yet the government denies the hard facts. The pricing policy is opaque and discriminatory. And contrary to economic and all other logic, the government has passed on the financial responsibility for vaccinating the 18-44 year population to the state governments, which are already facing severe financial stress. Worse, the mandatory online registration without a walk-in option will exclude -- and may have already excluded --millions of our citizens, particularly those in rural areas and those belonging to the weaker sections of society.Dr Manmohan Singh wrote to the Prime Minister after the last meeting of the CWC on April 17, 2021 giving five specific suggestions to increase vaccine supplies and coverage. However, instead of taking his suggestions in the constructive spirit in which they were offered, the Prime Minister instructed the Union Health Minister to reply to Dr Manmohan Singh in a most undignified manner.Since the last meeting of the Congress Working Committee, it is noticed that the infection has travelled massively into rural areas with zero access to RT PCR testing, medicines, oxygen or hospitalisation resulting in a large number of deaths. Even across the country, the inhumane crisis of non-availability of oxygen, hospital beds, Remdesivir, Ivermectin, Tocilizumab injections and vaccines reflects the failure of the central government. This has happened despite India producing sufficient quantity of Oxygen and Remdesivir injections as also the vaccines."The CWC noted with concern that the data on Covid deaths is wrong and afflicted by massive non-reporting of deaths. The solution lies in facing the challenge and stopping casualties from Covid-19 and not in concealing the truth by burying the data on deaths and infections," stated the release.The Congress Working Committee expressed its revulsion at the shocking expenditure priorities of the Modi government. At a time when the nation's resources should be devoted to ensuring expansion of vaccination coverage and supply of essential medicines and oxygen, the Modi government is indulging in criminal waste of money by continuing with the personal vanity project of the Prime Minister in the national capital. This is the height of callousness as also an insult to the people.The Congress Working Committee appreciates the assistance that has been given by the international community at this time of national crisis. However, it needs to be said that there is total non-transparency in the distribution and utilisation of these supplies. Our need for assistance is also a sad reflection of the governance and policy failures of the Modi government.The Congress Working Committee is of the belief that this a time for showing a sense of national unity, purpose and resolve. In order that it may become a reality, the Prime Minister must atone for his mistakes and commit to serving the people instead of carrying on with personal agenda, oblivious to the suffering around. The Congress Party commits to fighting the Covid-19 pandemic with its entire might and will support every people-friendly initiative of the government in fighting the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/apps-like-unqualified-setu-nowin-won-t-save-but-2-jabs-of-vaccine-will-rahul-101620702863627.html
11-05-2021||India||Cow dung cakes found in baggage of Indian passenger at US airport, destroyed||The US Customs and Border Protection agents discovered cow dung cakes in a leftover baggage of a passenger from India at an international airport in the suburb of Washington DC, according to officials.Cow dung cakes are prohibited in the US as they are considered to be potential carriers of the highly contagious foot and mouth disease.They were destroyed, the US Customs and Border Protection (CBP) said on Monday.Also Read: Doctors warn against cow dung as cure for Covid-19“That is not a typo. CBP agriculture specialists found two cow dung cakes in a suitcase that was left behind after passengers from an Air India flight cleared CBP’s inspection station on April 4,” a media release said on Monday.“Foot and Mouth Disease is one of the animal diseases that livestock owners dread most, has grave economic consequences, and it is a critical threat focus of Customs and Border Protection’s agriculture protection mission,” said Keith Fleming, Acting Director of Field Operations for CBP’s Baltimore Field Office.Cow dung is reported to be a vital energy and cooking source in some parts of the world. Cow dung has also been reportedly used as a skin detoxifier, an antimicrobial and as fertilizer. Despite these alleged benefits, cow dung from India is prohibited due to the potential introduction of Foot and Mouth disease, the CBP said.According to the US Department of Agriculture, Foot and Mouth Disease (FMD) is a worldwide concern as it can spread widely and rapidly and causes significant economic losses to livestock populations.A single detection of FMD will likely stop international livestock trade completely until authorities can eradicate the disease threat. The US has been FMD free since 1929, according to a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cow-dung-cakes-found-in-baggage-of-indian-passenger-at-us-airport-destroyed-101620699803469.html
11-05-2021||India||Rain, thunderstorm likely over NW India till May 15: IMD||Widespread rain and thunderstorms are likely over the western Himalayan region and northwest India till May 15, according to India Meteorological Department.Under the influence of a western disturbance and its interaction with easterly winds at lower levels, scattered to widespread rainfall or thundershower is very likely over western Himalayan region and scattered to fairly widespread rainfall or thunderstorms is likely over plains of northwest India during May 10 to 15 with maximum intensity during May 11 to 13. Isolated heavy rainfall is also likely over Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand on May 12 and 13.Also Read | Heatwave conditions won’t set in till May 18: IMDIsolated hailstorm is also likely over Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi on May 12 and 13 and Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan & Muzaffarabad and Rajasthan on May 12. Isolated dust storm is also likely over Rajasthan during May 10 to 13.Under the influence of an east-west trough (area of low pressure) from Punjab to sub-Himalayan West Bengal and a trough in westerlies, widespread rainfall or thunderstorm activity is very likely over east and northeast India during the next 4-5 days. Isolated heavy rainfall is also likely over Assam, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura.Under the influence of north-south trough or wind discontinuity from Vidarbha to Kerala coast in lower levels, light or moderate scattered to fairly widespread rain or thunder is very likely over Kerala, Mahe, Lakshadweep and coastal and south Interior Karnataka and isolated to scattered rain or thundershower over rest parts of south peninsular India during the next 4-5 days. Heat wave conditions are unlikely over any part of the country during the next 4-5 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-thunderstorm-likely-over-nw-india-till-may-15imd-101620701544083.html
11-05-2021||India||3 terrorists killed in encounter in Jammu and Kashmir's Anantnag district||Three Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorists were killed in an encounter that broke out between security personnel and terrorists at Vailoo in Kokernag area of Jammu and Kashmir's Anantnag district on Tuesday.“Encounter has started at Vailoo, Kokernag area of Anantnag. Police and security forces are on the job. Further details shall follow. @JmuKmrPolice," Kashmir police had earlier tweeted. Vijay Kumar, IGP Kashmir, had informed news agency ANI that the three terrorists were of the LeT outfit.#AnantnagEncounterUpdate: 02 more #terrorists killed (total 03). Search going on. Further details shall follow. @JmuKmrPolice https://t.co/v1fcHJp3GXOn May 6, three Al-Badr terrorists were killed and one surrendered before the security forces after an encounter in Shopian district. The presence of terrorists in the area was ascertained during the search operation and all of them were given an opportunity to surrender, according to police.Watch: Three terrorists killed in encounter in Jammu and Kashmir's Anantnag district﻿﻿"Family members of the trapped terrorists were also called to the encounter site to motivate and persuade them to surrender," police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/encounter-underway-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-anantnag-district-101620699261621.html
11-05-2021||India||Every adult in Goa, irrespective of Covid-19 status, to be given Ivermectin drug||All people above 18 years in Goa will be given Ivermectin drug irrespective of their coronavirus disease (Covid-19) status to bring down mortality, state health minister Vishwajit Rane said on Monday.He said patients will be given Ivermectin 12mg for a period of five days as expert panels from the UK, Italy, Spain, and Japan have found a statistically significant reduction in mortality, time to recovery, and viral clearance in Covid-19 patients treated with this medicine."I have given instructions for immediate implementation of prophylaxis (action taken to prevent disease) treatment," Rane said.The minister said this treatment would not prevent Covid-19 infection but it can help reduce the severity."The Ivermectin 12 mg tablet will be made available in all the district, sub-district, PHCs, CHCs, sub-health centers, rural dispensaries for people to collect and start treatment immediately, irrespective of any symptoms or anything," Rane said.Goa on Monday recorded 2,804 new cases of coronavirus, taking its tally to 1,21,650, while 50 more fatalities pushed the toll to 1,729, a health official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/every-adult-in-goa-irrespective-of-covid-19-status-to-be-given-ivermectin-drug-101620699480690.html
11-05-2021||India||Doctors warn against cow dung as cure for Covid-19||Doctors in India are warning against the practice of using cow dung in the belief it will ward off Covid-19, saying there is no scientific evidence for its effectiveness and that it risks spreading other diseases.The coronavirus pandemic has wrought devastation on India, with 22.66 million cases and 246,116 deaths reported so far. Experts say actual numbers could be five to 10 times higher, and citizens across the country are struggling to find hospital beds, oxygen, or medicines, leaving many to die for lack of treatment.In the state of Gujarat in western India, some believers have been going to cow shelters once a week to cover their bodies in cow dung and urine in the hope it will boost their immunity against, or help them recover from, the coronavirus.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIn Hinduism, the cow is a sacred symbol of life and the earth, and for centuries Hindus have used cow dung to clean their homes and for prayer rituals, believing it has therapeutic and antiseptic properties."We see ... even doctors come here. Their belief is that this therapy improves their immunity and they can go and tend to patients with no fear," said Gautam Manilal Borisa, an associate manager at a pharmaceuticals company, who said the practice helped him recover from Covid-19 last year.He has since been a regular at the Shree Swaminarayan Gurukul Vishwavidya Pratishthanam, a school run by Hindu monks that lies just across the road from the Indian headquarters of Zydus Cadila, which is developing its own Covid-19 vaccine.As participants wait for the dung and urine mixture on their bodies to dry, they hug or honour the cows at the shelter, and practice yoga to boost energy levels. The packs are then washed off with milk or buttermilk.Doctors and scientists in India and across the world have repeatedly warned against practising alternative treatments for Covid-19, saying they can lead to a false sense of security and complicate health problems."There is no concrete scientific evidence that cow dung or urine work to boost immunity against Covid-19, it is based entirely on belief," said Dr JA Jayalal, national president at the Indian Medical Association."There are also health risks involved in smearing or consuming these products - other diseases can spread from the animal to humans."There are also concerns the practice could contribute to the spread of the virus as it involved people gathering in groups. Madhucharan Das, in charge of another cow shelter in Ahmedabad, said they were limiting the number of participants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doctors-warn-against-cow-dung-as-cure-for-covid19-101620697872548.html
11-05-2021||India||Covid-19: Train services in Kashmir suspended for 6 days, says Railways||Railway authorities on Monday decided to suspend train services in the Kashmir Valley for six days, starting Tuesday, in view of the worsening Covid-19 situation."The train services between Banihal-Baramulla section and vice-versa will remain suspended with effect from 11.05.2021 to 16.05.2021 in view of worsening Covid situation in Kashmir," an official of the Northern Railways said. The step to shut down services comes three days ahead of Eid-ul-Fitr amid reports that migrant labourers were using it to enter the Valley to escape mandatory Covid-19 testing at Qazigund.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-train-services-in-kashmir-suspended-for-6-days-says-railways-101620698779864.html
11-05-2021||India||Panel raises concerns over Andaman water aerodrome project||The Union environment ministry’s expert appraisal committee (EAC) has raised several concerns about the environmental impact of constructing a water aerodrome at Swaraj Island, formerly Havelock Island, in Andaman and Nicobar.The aim of the project, part of the Centre’s Udan scheme (for regional airport development), is to connect remote areas of the island to Port Blair to promote tourism “resulting in growth in economic condition,” the minutes of the EAC meeting held on April 12 and published earlier this month stated.But the aerodrome will involve the loss of 3,500 sq m of forest land which has been transferred to Andaman and Nicobar Islands Integrated Development Corporation Ltd (ANIIDCO).As per the environmental impact assessment (EIA) report, the project site for the construction of the terminal building (1568.9 sq m) and associate infrastructure (453.3 sq m) falls partly in a large patch of mangroves. The speedboat pathway is dominated by mangroves on both sides.However, the management plan submitted by Andaman and Nicobar Administration does not address the impact on the mangroves due to the project.The EAC found the EIA report inadequate. “Since the EIA consists of mostly secondary data on biodiversity without actual site-specific biodiversity studies with respect to aquatic and natural environment in effect of tourism, the project proponent needs to resubmit the revised EIA covering biodiversity conservation/ management plan, including water and air quality data,” minutes of the EAC meeting, seen by HT, said.The study on biodiversity should be conducted by any national lab, it added.The EAC also asked for a comprehensive risk analysis for sea-plane crashing/catching fire at the sea-aerodrome, status of coastal regulation zone (CRZ) clearance at the state and central level and reassessment of the impact of the noise level during landing and take-off on the fauna in the area.T Haque, EAC chairman who presided over the meeting, died of Covid-19 complications last week. A senior environment ministry official, on condition of anonymity, said: “Mr Haque is no more. We will have to look into details of this project to be able to respond.”“Considering the high level of endemism in the species found in Andaman and Nicobar and their uniqueness, no EIA should be accepted without primary data. First, the biodiversity of Havelock region needs to be studied by a competent organisation. In the case of Galathea in Great Nicobar, as we know it is among the most important and largest nesting sites for leatherback turtles in India. The nesting and distribution of leatherback turtles is restricted to the Andaman and Nicobar Islands,” Bivash Pandav, director of Bombay Natural History Society, said.“The central government's UDAN scheme to set up airports for regional connectivity makes all the right noises about extending transport infrastructure to "underserved" places. But there have been numerous problems in how this scheme has been used to repackage old, unviable projects by cash starved states/UTs and to grab land. One of the main issues, as usual we might say, has been acquiring land and obtaining environmental approvals for projects in ecologically sensitive locations. State governments have pushed these locations for airport development even though they are well aware of the problems. In this case, the corporate wing of the Andaman administration is pushing this unassessed project that sounds more like an adventure ride. The project proposal states that the site is not critically polluted. That is actually the problem. This biodiversity rich island ecosystem may become that thanks to such a project,” said Manju Menon, a senior fellow at the Centre for Policy Research think tank.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/panel-raises-concerns-over-andaman-water-aerodrome-project-101620691501484.html
11-05-2021||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Delhi announced a lockdown on April 17. It saw 24,375 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases on the day for a weekly average of 16,225 cases. Its positivity rate on the day was 24.6% for a weekly average of 16.5%.The corresponding numbers for May 9 were 13,336, 18,374, 21.7%, and 25.3%.The seven-day average of cases peaked at 25,294 on April 23; the weekly average positivity rate at 32.9%, on April 26, 27, and 28.The city-state’s fourth wave is ebbing with the same intensity with which it climbed — and one of the main reasons for this is clearly the lockdown.It isn’t just Delhi. Maharashtra announced stringent restrictions on movement and activities (although it wasn’t a full lockdown) on April 13 (it effectively started the following day), on a day Mumbai saw 7,873 new cases (weekly average: 8,952) and a positivity rate of 19.01% (weekly average: 18.73%).The state was likely late in announcing the lockdown. The seven-day average of cases in Mumbai peaked at 9,862 on April 10; the weekly average positivity rate at 20.55% the same day.The corresponding figures three weeks later, on May 9, were 2,395 new cases, 2,884 weekly average, 7.34% positivity rate, and 9.24% weekly average positivity.Mumbai had another advantage: it never witnessed the scramble for hospital beds and oxygen that Delhi saw, with anecdotal evidence suggesting that this rush for resources that were either not available or not accessible caused more infections.The evidence is pretty much irrefutable: in the short term, faced with a surge in infections that could overwhelm the health care system (or which already has), a lockdown helps; and it takes around three weeks to show results.With Karnataka and Tamil Nadu announcing a complete lockdown for two weeks starting May 10, and Kerala one starting May 8 (the government has said it will last till May 17, but will likely extend it), three states that, in the past seven days, accounted for a little over a fourth (28%) of all Covid cases in the country, should also start seeing a turnaround by early June.As the map shows, about 80% of India’s population is now locked down.Unlike last year — and perhaps because of the criticism it faced over the economic fallout of the 68-day lockdown between March 25 and May 31 2020 — the Union government has steered well clear of announcing a lockdown, leaving it to the states to do so (and therefore, cop all criticism for it). Lockdowns, despite their efficacy in the short term, are hugely harmful to the economy. That’s the reason many states and Union territories (Maharashtra and Delhi included) tried to put off announcing a lockdown for as long as possible. Even today, some states do not like to refer to a lockdown by that name.Which is why vaccinations matter.When a state or UT manages to vaccinate (if even partially) 40% of its population, it can pretty much allow most activities to resume, albeit with adequate non-pharmaceutical interventions (NPIs; the wearing of masks, social distancing, a ban on large events) and restrictions (allowing restaurants to operate at 50-70% capacity, for instance). Some experts believe that the results will start making themselves felt when even 25% of the population is vaccinated.Delhi has thus far managed to vaccinate (with at least one dose) around 4 million people — around 27% of the eligible population. It isn’t that much of a stretch to argue that at least some of the decline in cases and positivity rates the Capital has seen in recent days is on account of this. Mumbai has vaccinated (with at least one dose) 2.6 million people — around 23.6% of the eligible population.But because India will be short of vaccines for at least a few more months (and, most likely, even longer), local governments will find themselves having to resort to the occasional lockdown even as they work towards optimising vaccine doses to reach that 40% mark. They can then allow most activities to resume, with so-called NPIs, as they strive to vaccinate at least everyone who wants to be vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-what-you-need-to-know-today-101620683592854.html
11-05-2021||India||Covid hits AMU; 50 serving, ex-staff die||At least 50 current and retired staff at Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) have succumbed to Covid-19 in the past three weeks, officials said on Monday, rejecting allegations that the administration of the prestigious Uttar Pradesh institution were lax or negligent in dealing with the pandemic.At least 15 serving faculty members, 25 retired teaching faculty, 15 staff members and two schoolteachers from AMU have died in the past three weeks of Covid-19, said people aware of developments.“In all, 18 serving faculty members have died, out of whom 15 died because of Covid-related reasons. The cause of three other deaths was non-Covid. There are more deaths, which include retired faculty members and staff at Aligarh Muslim University,” said Dr Rahat Abrar, the public relations officer of AMU.“These deaths have taken place in the last 20 to 25 days. Concerned by this, the vice chancellor of AMU has written to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for genome sequencing of the virus active on the campus,” Dr Abrar said.There are about 5,000 non teaching staff and around 1,700 teaching staff at AMU.On Sunday, AMU vice chancellor Tariq Mansoor wrote to ICMR director general Balram Bhargava, requesting a study to find out if a particular virus variant was circulating around the Civil Lines area of Aligarh, in which AMU and many adjoining localities are situated.“Two serving faculty members who died because of Covid-19 — professor Qazi Mohammad Jamshed and associate professor Iqbal Qasim— were residing in the medical colony within the AMU campus,” the university spokesperson said. The other resided in areas adjoining the sprawling campus.The Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College (JNMC) is affiliated to AMU and situated on the university campus. The head of the medicine department at JNMC, Prof Shadab Ahmad Khan, is among 18 serving faculty members of AMU who died.The deaths have triggered allegations of negligence. Faizul Hasan, former president AMU Students’ Union, demanded a high-level inquiry. He claimed that at least 45 serving professors, 15 to 16 retired faculty members and more than 50 employees linked with AMU died in 20 to 25 days. Other students and teachers said there was widespread panic in the campus and a shortage of doctors at the medical college.But JNMC principal Prof Shahid Ali Siddiqi rejected the allegations and said Covid was playing havoc all over the nation and the medical college was no exception. “There are various factors for deteriorating cases of Covid-19 and (they) include diabetes, hypertension and obesity. We appeal that Covid-19 patients should be brought in time as often the patients reach hospital when much is lost,” he said.The Aligarh administration and health officials said they had no information about the deaths. “We were not informed about the deaths of faculty members at AMU,” said Aligarh district magistrate Chandra Bhushan Singh.Aligarh chief medical officer Bhanu Pratap Kalyani said he came to know of the deaths through newspaper reports and samples being sent by JNMC to ICMR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-hits-amu-50-serving-ex-staff-die-101620683350493.html
11-05-2021||India||3 BJP leaders nominated to Puducherry assembly, will help tighten control on govt||The Centre on Monday nominated three Bharatiya Janata Party leaders as legislators to the Puducherry assembly. This is the second time that the Centre has appointed three BJP members as nominated legislators of the House.The central government’s notification on the nomination of three legislators, K Venkatesan, VP Ramalingam and RN Ashok Babu, effectively raises the strength of the Puducherry assembly to 33; 30 members were elected on May 2 in the assembly elections.A 2018 Supreme Court verdict had made it clear that the nominated members in the Puducherry assembly could vote on the Budget or a trust vote, ruling that the Union Territories Act 1963, which empowers the Centre to nominate three MLAs, did not differentiate between nominated and elected members.The three MLAs nominated by the Centre in the last assembly were instrumental in the fall of the previous Congress government led by V Narayanasamy in February this year and the imposition of central rule. Some Congress heavyweights had also defected to the BJP ahead of the assembly elections in April and helped the saffron party open its account in the 6 April elections. The last time the BJP had an elected member in the assembly was in 2001.In the latest round of elections, the BJP, which fought the elections in alliance with the All India NR Congress and the AIADMK, ended up with 6 seats.The alliance leader, All India NR Congress founder N Rangasamy, was sworn in as chief minister on Friday to form the NDA government. He is yet to name his council of ministers which is expected to include several BJP legislators. The BJP also wants one of its legislators to be designated as a deputy chief minister post.Rangaswamy has had to go slow on the induction of his council of ministers since he tested Covid-19 positive a day earlier and is undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Chennai. The first medical bulletin from the hospital on Monday stated that he was stable and was maintaining normal oxygen saturation. The nomination of the three legislators raises the BJP’s effective strength in the assembly to 9, much closer to the 10 seats won by the AINRC. The majority mark in the 33-member assembly is 17; it was 16 when Rangaswamy took oath.This will give a cushion to the ruling alliance but experts believe it could end up complicating the relationship between the BJP and its alliance partner.“This is surely a challenge to Rangasamy,” says political analyst Raveendran Duraisamy. “There can no longer be one-upmanship. It will be more like a 50-50 partnership between AINRC and BJP.”Their third ally, AIADMK drew a blank in the April elections. The Congress just has two MLAs while its ally the DMK has six. A record number of six independent MLAs were elected this time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-bjp-leaders-nominated-to-puducherry-assembly-will-help-tighten-control-on-govt-101620681861739.html
11-05-2021||India||Himanta Biswa Sarma sworn in as Assam CM, pledges NRC re-verification||Himanta Biswa Sarma took oath as the 15th chief minister of Assam in a ceremony in Guwahati on Monday, pledging to control surging coronavirus infections and partially verify the contentious National Register of Citizens.“My aim will be to make Assam one of the top five Indian states in the next five years. We want to take development to newer heights and bring peace among all castes, creeds and communities,” the 52-year-old said in his first press conference as chief minister.Sarma, who served as the finance minister in the previous Bharatiya Janata Party government, urged outlawed outfits to join the peace process and said he will focus on fulfilling promises such as 100,000 jobs, loan waiver, and flood control.Sarma said that, as promised by the BJP in its poll manifesto, the government will seek reverification of the National Register of Citizens, which documents all legal Indian citizens in Assam and excluded 1.9 million people when it was released in 2019.“Our view on NRC is very clear. We want 20% re-verification of the list in districts bordering Bangladesh and 10% re-verification in other districts. If after that, NRC is found to be correct, the state government would accept it and take the process forward. But if NRC is found faulty even after re-verification, we would want the Supreme Court to view this issue critically,” Sarma said.Also read | Himanta Biswa Sarma: From BJP’s key strategist in northeast to Assam CMHe added that his government will enact laws on “love jihad”, a term used by right-wing groups to describe unions between Muslim men and Hindu women, and “land jihad”, a term used to describe “outsiders” encroaching upon land owned by indigenous tribes.Thirteen ministers were also sworn in by governor Jagdish Mukhi in the ceremony attended by BJP president JP Nadda and others. “Congratulations to @himantabiswa ji and the other ministers who took oath today. I am confident this team will add momentum to the development journey of Assam and fulfil aspirations of the people,” tweeted Prime Minister Narenda Modi.Sarma assured the people of a proactive government that will work for them round the clock. “You will see a proactive government which will be there for you at all times. We will try and resolve all pending issues,” he told journalists .He said the first cabinet meeting on Tuesday would focus on the Covid-19 situation in the state. “Daily cases in Assam have crossed 5,000. The situation in Assam will affect other northeastern states as well,” he said.On granting scheduled tribe (ST) status to Ahoms, Koch-Rajbongshis, Moran, Motok, Sutias and tea-tribe, Sarma said the government will try and resolve the issue through talks and without affecting the rights of tribes already under the ST ambit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/himanta-biswa-sarma-sworn-in-as-assam-cm-pledges-nrc-reverification-101620679180706.html
11-05-2021||India||Police file FIR after thousands attend UP cleric’s funeral||Uttar Pradesh police have filed a first information report after thousands of people attended the funeral of a Muslim cleric in the old city area of Badaun district on Sunday in violation of Covid norms.Prominent Badaun cleric Abdul Hamid Mohammad Salimul Qadri died on Sunday morning after prolonged illness. Before the funeral, his body was kept at a mosque for public viewing. Local authorities said Qadri’s followers from different parts of Badaun and nearby districts reached Badaun city to pay their last respects.The funeral possession was planned later in the day, which passed through the city and was joined by thousands of Qadri’s followers. Visuals showed a thousands-strong crowd passing through the streets of Badaun; many people were without masks and in close proximity with each other.“We have lodged an FIR against unidentified people under sections of the Epidemic Act and started investigations. A team is watching the video of the funeral to identify people who attended it. Further action will be taken against them following identification,” said Sankalp Sharma, superintendent of police, Badaun.The state is under a partial lockdown and the government has restricted the number of people attending funerals to 20 and announced fine of ₹1,000 for not wearing mask.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-file-fir-after-thousands-attend-up-cleric-s-funeral-101620675500181.html
11-05-2021||India||B.1.617 variant of concern at global level: WHO||The coronavirus B.1.617 is a global variant of concern, the World Health Organization said on Monday as scientists reported new clues that suggest the mutations first seen in India may be making the pathogen more transmissible.In recent days, new assessments disclosed by scientists has shown that the B.1.617 and its particular lineage B.1.617.2 have rapidly expanded their footprint in some regions, and in lab tests show that they can lead to a high viral load – although it isn’t clear yet if they are more resistant to vaccines or immunity from a past infection.“There is some available information to suggest increased transmissibility of the B.1.617,” Maria Van Kerkove, the WHO’s lead on Covid-19, told reporters on Monday, also pointing to early studies. “As such we are classifying this as a variant of concern at the global level,” she said, adding that more details would be provided in the WHO’s weekly epidemiological update on Tuesday.The variant is being considered as one of the reasons why India has been overwhelmed by a surge in cases. Now, it will be added to the list containing three other variants of Covid-19 -- those first detected in UK (B.1.1.7), Brazil (P.1) and South Africa (B.1.351) -- which the WHO has classified as being “of concern”.They are seen as more dangerous than the original version of the virus by being more transmissible, deadly or able to get past vaccine protections.Also read | No funds granted for vaccine research, development: GovtWhen it comes to the B.1.617 variant, Van Kerkove stressed that for the time being “we don’t have anything to suggest that our diagnostics or therapeutics and our vaccines don’t work”.In a study published late on Sunday, researchers led by teams from Cambridge reported that the B.1.617 variant. Among the assessments they carried out was the case analysis of 33 staff members of a Delhi health facility who were infected by the coronavirus after having been vaccinated, and how these mutations behaved when recreated in the lab.“The loss of neutralisation of B.1.617 (by vaccinated serum) has likely contributed to an epidemic wave in India where background infection to the Wuhan-1 D614G in 2020 was between 20-50%,” said the authors in the study, which is yet to be peer reviewed.The scientists also flagged a particular mutation, which has also been seen in the UK variant, as having some implication on how the disease develops. “We find that P681R is associated with enhanced capacity to induce cell-cell fusion and syncitia formation, and that P681R alone confers this ability on the B.1.617.1 spike with RBD mutations L452R and E484Q,” they say.Public Health England on Friday announced it has found B.1.617.2 to have spread in Britain in a way similar to the early days of B.1.1.7, which triggered runaway outbreaks in several regions that had to enter a lockdown in order to contain it.New data seen in India too suggested this may be true. As per the latest genome sequencing data shared by Indian labs with the global repository GISAID - B.1.617.1 and B.1.617.2 accounted for 58% of all samples submitted in the last 30 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/b1617-variant-of-concern-at-global-level-who-101620675440094.html
11-05-2021||India||No funds granted for vaccine research, development: Govt||The central government has told the Supreme Court that “no governmental aid, assistance or grant” was given for the research or development of Covid-19 vaccines Covishield or Covaxin even though the former is manufactured in the country by the Serum Institute of India (SII) and the latter was indigenously developed by Bharat Biotech in the collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).Interestingly, the Centre also argued against compulsory licensing of key drugs used to treat Covid-19, and also vaccines , suggesting that this could be counter-productive and that the real issue is scarcity of raw materials, not manufacturing capacity. The position is at odds against India’s move, along with South Africa, in the WTO, seeking removal of patent protection for Covid-19 vaccines.Submitting its affidavit in the top court, the Centre further disclosed that sale of Covaxin will yield 5% royalty payments for ICMR since the intellectual property governing the use of the vaccine was shared.Both Covishied, developed by Oxford University and British-Swedish firm AstraZeneca, and Covaxin have been so far bought by the Centre for ₹150 a dose. Covishield was first offered to states at ₹400 a dose and ₹600 to private hospitals. Covaxin was offered at ₹600 for state governments and at ₹1,200 for private hospitals. Later Covishield’s price for states was reduced to ₹300 a dose and Covaxin’s to ₹400.The Centre’s affidavit came up for a hearing before a bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat on Monday, but the proceedings, held virtually due to Covid restriction, were deferred to Thursday because of technical glitches.In its detailed affidavit, the Centre defended its policies regarding pricing and distribution of the vaccines, besides imploring the top court to refrain from interfering with the policy decisions.Also read | Govt prepping for 3rd wave, city will be able to tackle 30k daily cases: CM Arvind KejriwalHere are the key points the Union government has made in its affidavit:No Funding or aid to vaccine manufacturersThe court, in its May 2 order, sought to know from the government whether any fund or grant was provided for research, development and manufacture of the vaccines.Responding to this, the Centre maintained that the only financial support to Bharat Biotech and SII was in the form of advance payment for vaccines. ₹1,732.5 crore was released to SII for 110 million doses of Covishield, and an advance payment of ₹787.5 Crores was released to Bharat Biotech for 50 million Covaxin doses for the months of May, June and July.“It is submitted that no governmental aid, assistance or grant is made for research or development of either Covaxin or Covishield. However, they were given some financial assistance for conducting clinical trials,” said the Centre, furnishing details of Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between ICMR and Bharat Biotech that included a 5% royalty clause for ICMR on net sales and other clauses like prioritisation of in-country supplies.While ICMR did not fund either Bharat Biotech or Serum Institute of India (SII), it spent ₹35 crore and ₹11 crore respectively at their clinical trial sites, stated the affidavit submitted by the Centre in the Supreme Court late on Sunday night.It has added that three of the 11 vaccine candidates progressed from proof-of-concept to the clinical development stage and were currently undergoing clinical trials.Differential pricing between Centre and states justified Questioning the differential pricing of vaccines between the Centre and the states, the Supreme Court asked the Centre to revisit its vaccine policy, underscoring that the current policy would prima facie result in a detriment to the right to public health. It suggested that the Centre should buy vaccines at ₹150 per dose and then give it to the states, which could take care of the transportation of vials etc.But, in its affidavit, the Union government justified the differential pricing, contending it was “based on the concept of creating an incentivised demand for the private vaccine manufacturers so as to instil a competitive market resulting in higher production of vaccines and market-driven affordable prices”. It will also attract offshore vaccine manufacturers to enter the country, the affidavit said.Additionally, the Centre validated higher vaccine prices for the states on the ground that the Union government placed large purchase orders for vaccines as opposed to the states, and therefore, “this reality has some reflection in the prices negotiated”.According to the Centre, the differential pricing will eventually not have any impact on the citizens since all states have declared that they will be administering vaccine free of cost.“Thus, while it is ensured that the two vaccine manufacturers, are not unduly enriched from out of public money, the citizens are not supposed to make any payment for getting both dose of the vaccine,” said the Centre.It maintained that the priority groups for the Centre will remain those above 45 years of age and persons with comorbidities under 45 years of age, and the vaccination for 18-44 age group was allowed “to respect the wishes of various state governments”.Vaccine production In order to speed-up the regulatory process of use of offshore vaccines within the country, and to accelerate the access to vaccines, the government said in the affidavit that the regulatory and testing processes have been simplified that may shorten the time by four months.Such foreign vaccines which were administered globally in large numbers after approvals by the US, the UK, the EU and the World Health Organization will go straight for market deployment while bridging trials will be carried out simultaneously. “This would enable earlier introduction of foreign vaccines in the programme and would cut-short the time required for in-country bridging trials by nearly 4 months,” the affidavit said.Compulsory licensing and suspension of IPR In its May 2 order, the bench referred to the emergency provisions under the Patents Act to ask if the Centre will invoke the law to suspend the intellectual property rights in respect of essential drugs such as remdesivir, and grant compulsory licenses to some other manufacturers for ramping up their production.The government, however, said that resorting to such statutory powers either for essential drugs or for vaccines with patent issues would have “serious, severe and unintended adverse consequences” in the country’s efforts being made on global platform.It added the chief constraint in scaling up production was availability of certain inputs, rather than addition of the manufacturing capacity.“In view of the current constraints on availability of raw materials and other essential inputs, mere addition of more production capacity may not lead to the desired outcomes of enhanced supplies. stated the affidavit.The government said that all efforts are being made to enhance the production capacity, apart from procuring remdesivir through imports and donations from other countries through active engagement with global organisations.“When there is a surge in cases and in demand of patented medicines/drugs/vaccines from all over the world the solution needs to be found out essentially at an executive level engaging at diplomatic levels. Any exercise of statutory powers either under the Patents Act read with TRIPS agreement and Doha declaration or in any other way can only prove to be counterproductive at this stage,” said the government.Cap on prices of essential drugsNoting that the maximum retail price of remdesivir had been fixed at ₹3,500, the top court asked the government to consider invoking the statutory powers of Drugs (Prices Control) Order to cap the prices of several other essential drugs such as favipiravir, tociluzumab, enoxaparin, ivermectin, methylprednisolone, paracetamol and hydroxychloroquine.The government has responded to this by saying that such a step was under their consideration and that exercise of statutory power shall have to be a calibrated executive response keeping several factor national and global factors in mind.However, for the time being, the affidavit said that the priority was to augment production, ensure effective and equitable distribution and ensure availability of essential drugs under any circumstances.It referred to the current global scenario, sudden surge of demand for the drugs worldwide, and the availability of raw material for manufacturing important drugs from other countries.Not a case for judicial interferenceThe Centre urged the apex court to trust the wisdom of the executive, and let it exercise discretion to formulate policy in larger interest, for there were several factors in managing the pandemic that did not have any judicially manageable standards.Asserting that its vaccination policy was “just, equitable, non-discriminatory and based upon an intelligible differentia”, it said the policy required no interference by the court because all decisions had been taken on expert medical and scientific advice and following detailed deliberations at the highest level of the Executive.“In the context of a global pandemic, where the response and strategy of the nation is completely driven by expert medical and scientific opinion, there is even little room for judicial interference. Any overzealous, though well-meaning judicial intervention may lead to unforeseen and unintended consequences, in absence of any expert advice or administrative experience, leaving the doctors, scientists, experts and executive very little room to find innovative solutions on the go,” said the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-funds-granted-for-vaccine-research-development-govt-101620675320843.html
11-05-2021||India||Andhra prioritises 2nd dose amid vaccine shortage||The Covid-19 vaccination drive came to a grinding halt in several districts of Andhra Pradesh on Monday with the state government deciding to restrict the vaccination process only to the second dose. “For now, only those who require the second dose will be vaccinated for a few days. Changes are being made in the registration for vaccination on CoWin application. Once they are covered, the first dose of vaccination will resume,” an official in the state health department familiar with the development said on Monday. Reports of people being turned away at the vaccination centres poured in from Chittoor, Vizianagaram, Krishna, Nellore, East Godavari, Kurnool, Guntur, Prakasam and Kadapa districts. “This is only to prevent mad rush at the vaccination centres, as there is not enough stock for meeting the needs of the people,” the official said. Andhra Pradesh on Monday reported 14,986 fresh Covid cases, taking the cumulative number of positive cases in the state to 13,02,589. The state also reported 82 deaths, taking the total toll to 8,791. On the other hand, Telangana reported 4,826 new cases and 32 deaths on Monday evening. The total number of Covid-19 positive cases in the state so far is 5,02,187 and the total death toll stands at 2,771.Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy, who held an official review of the Covid-19 situation in the state, instructed that the officials first complete vaccinating people above 45 years of age who had taken first dose. “Later, focus could be laid on administering first dose of vaccine to people above 45 years as they are more vulnerable to Covid,” he said. Jagan directed that there should be no rush at vaccination centres and health workers should be engaged in informing the vaccination timings to those who registered online, so that long queues can be avoided. He said the vaccination is a long-drawn process and the state government has no control over it. “The vaccination programme is being determined by the Centre and even if the state wants to buy vaccines directly from the manufacturing companies, the Centre is instructing them on the number of doses to be sold to the states. We need to explain this to people,” Jagan told the officials. He said it would take six months to complete the vaccination process in the state, provided the Centre supplied at least 10 million vaccines per month. At present, only 1.9 million doses of vaccine are being supplied to the state per month, he said and instructed officials to go for global tenders to purchase vaccines. The officials told the chief minister that the state had so far administered 60,87,117 doses of Covishield, including 43,99,802 under the first dose and 16,87,315 under the second dose. Similarly, 9,23,296 doses of Covaxin were administered under the first dose and 2,90,047 doses under the second dose. In all, 1,33,07,889 people over the age of 45 were registered, of whom 41,08,917 were given the first dose and 13,35,744 were given both the doses. The officials pointed out that the Centre had assured supply of 9,17,850 doses of vaccine for the first 15 days of May, of which only 7,65,360 doses were supplied till now. The state government was allocated 16,85,630 doses for purchase by central government of which only 4,93,930 have been given and 11,91,700 vaccines are yet to come, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-prioritises-2nd-dose-amid-vaccine-shortage-101620673820479.html
