13-05-2021||India||Jaishankar discusses India’s needs for Covid-19 response with US Global Task Force||External affairs minister S Jaishankar on Thursday discussed India’s urgent requirements for its Covid-19 response, including oxygen and vaccines, during a virtual meeting with a group of CEOs of top American companies. Jaishankar interacted with the US Global Task Force on Pandemic Response, a country-specific group formed last month by CEOs of some 40 top American firms to help India fight the pandemic. “Interacted with the US Global Task Force on Pandemic Relief. Appreciate the participation of the CEOs and their support for India’s current efforts,” Jaishankar tweeted. “Discussed our priorities (oxygen, vaccines, pharmaceuticals) and the importance of effective supply chains. Underlined the global implications of a stronger India-US health collaboration,” he said in another tweet. “Meeting was an affirmation of our exceptional relationship. Deeply value the sentiments expressed,” Jaishankar added. There was no official word on the meeting or its outcomes. The US is among a growing list of countries that have provided equipment and supplies to help India cope with a devastating second wave of the pandemic that has seen Coronavirus infections surge well past the 350,000-mark for several days. The US Global Task Force is public-private initiative of the US-India Business Council, the US-India Strategic and Partnership Forum and the Business Roundtable. At a meeting held in Washington on April 26, the group pledged to provide 20,000 oxygen concentrators to India in the next few weeks. The task force acts as a unified platform for US businesses to mobilise and deliver resources to assist Covid-19 efforts in areas of the highest need around the world. Its initial efforts will focus on the pressing need for support in India, and it has been working in close collaboration with US and Indian officials to share information and coordinate efforts. The members of its steering committee include Alphabet Inc chief executive Sundar Pichai, Deloitte CEO Punit Renjen, Adobe Systems CEO Shantanu Narayan, Accenture CEO Julie Sweet, Amazon CEO Andy Jassy, Apple CEO Tim Cook, FedEx president Raj Subramaniam and IBM CEO Arvind Krishna. The countries that have delivered medical supplies and equipment to India include Russia, France, the UK, Germany, Australia, Ireland, Singapore, Portugal, Sweden, New Zealand, Kuwait and Mauritius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-discusses-india-s-needs-for-covid-19-response-with-us-global-task-force-101620930052477.html
13-05-2021||India||Covid virus has a right to live, says ex-CM Trivendra Singh Rawat. Barbs follow||Former Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat waded into a controversy on Thursday over his comments that Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, “has a right to live”, triggering stinging barbs from opposition leaders who described his statement as not just insensitive, but also “foolish”.“If we talk philosophically, then Covid-19 virus is also a living organism which wants to live and has a right to live just like humans. However, we consider ourselves more intelligent than any other living organism. We are now after it and to escape, the virus is changing its form constantly,” Rawat told a local news channel in the course of an interview on the Covid-19 pandemic that has killed over 4,100 people in Uttarakhand, more than 258,300 across the country and has forced most states to impose strict restrictions.Also watch | Covid update: Orphans & child trafficking; Covishield dose gap; UPSC now in Oct﻿Rawat continued in the widely-circulated video clip. “Hence, we now have to keep our distance from it. It is also moving and we are also moving, but we have to move faster than it so that it gets left behind”.The Congress moved fast to take potshots at Rawat.“What Rawat, who was the state’s CM, has said, is nothing but foolish and nonsense. He has lost his mind and has no vision because of which he was replaced abruptly by his party,” Uttarakhand Congress vice president Suryakant Dhasmana said.“The virus is a living organism, so was Ravana, Kansa and Mahishasura. But they all were killed by different gods because they were destroying the world just like this virus which has killed lakhs... Rawat is just uttering sheer nonsense,” he said.This isn’t the first time that the former chief minister, who was abruptly replaced by TS Rawat in March this year, has been ridiculed for his comments. He stunned people in 2019 when he claimed that the cow is the only animal that inhales and exhales oxygen. In March this year, the BJP abruptly dropped him.AAP’s Uttarakhand spokesperson Amarjeet Singh Rana said Trivendra Singh Rawat’s remark was a reflection of his wisdom. “This shows his and the BJP leaders’ wisdom. They are making Uttarakhand a laughing stock,” Rana said.Rawat hasn’t issued a clarification on his comments yet.The BJP’s counter to the opposition’s barbs was a counter-attack, accusing the Congress and the AAP of indulging in a blame game rather than working for humanity in the pandemic.“The Congress is just playing a dirty blame game and sees negative in everything even in this pandemic while AAP is doing this just for cheap publicity as it has no political presence in the state,” said BJP’s media in-charge in the state Manveer Singh Chauhan.Uttarakhand state secretary of Indian Medical Association (IMA) Dr Ajay Khanna said, “Covid-19 virus is a living organism. But it’s killing people.” He did not elaborate but another IMA functionary, who spoke on condition of anonymity, called the statement an insult to people who have lost their lives to the virus.“It is really unfortunate for this country that when (the number of) dead bodies are increasing every day in this country, a leader like Rawat who has been the CM of Uttarakhand is saying that Covid-19 virus is a living organism and has a right to live. It is just shameful and an insult to all those who lost their lives to this lethal virus,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-virus-has-a-right-to-live-says-ex-cm-trivendra-singh-rawat-barbs-follow-101620928252274.html
13-05-2021||India||Assam NRC coordinator files plea in top court seeking re-verification of draft||The coordinator for the National Register of Citizens (NRC) in Assam, Hitesh Dev Sarma, has filed an application in the Supreme Court seeking a complete, comprehensive and time-bound re-verification of the updated draft as well as the supplementary list of NRC as some “glaring anomalies of serious nature” were detected in the process. The application sought re-verification to be done under the supervision of a monitoring committee preferably represented by a district judge, district magistrate and superintendent of police. While the updated NRC was released in August 2019, a draft of the list published in July, 2018 had excluded nearly 4 million of the 33 million applicants. “Out of the names of 4,007,719 people excluded from the draft NRC about 393,975 people didn’t file any claims and therefore their names are in the exclusion list of NRC. After some sample checks now and analysis of the names of those people who didn’t file claims on the basis of surnames only, it was found that 50,695 people were apparently eligible for inclusion in the NRC,” the application stated. “Out of this, 7,770 people are from Original Inhabitants category and 42,925 people are from other states. This figure may increase if detailed re-verification is done. For a flawless and complete NRC, names of these people have to be included in the final NRC, failing which the final NRC will lose its acceptability,” it added. The application added that some undeserving people may have been included in the NRC list by wrongly claiming to be Original Inhabitants of Assam. In Assam, as per the Assam Accord of 1985, anyone who has been staying in the state prior to March 24, 1971, or can establish lineage to people residing on or before that date is considered as an Indian citizen—a requirement also accepted for inclusion in the National Register of Citizens (NRC) of 1951, which was updated in 2019 as per SC directions and under its monitoring. Names of around 1.9 million people who failed to prove their or their ancestor’s residency in Assam on that date and those who were declared foreigners by foreigners’ tribunals (as well their relatives) were excluded from the NRC published in August 2019 The BJP has maintained that the updated NRC is faulty as it has included dubious people and excluded genuine citizens and needs to be re-verified. The process has remained stuck as the NRC office is yet to issue rejection slips to those left out, allowing them to file fresh appeals for inclusion in foreigners’ tribunals. The final NRC list is also yet to be published by the Registrar General of India. “Our view on NRC is very clear. We want 20% re-verification of the list in districts bordering Bangladesh and 10% re-verification in other districts. If after that, the NRC is found to be correct, the state government would accept it and take the process forward. But if the NRC is found faulty after re-verification, we would want the Supreme Court to view this issue critically,” Himanta Biswa Sarma said at his first press conference as CM on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-nrc-coordinator-files-plea-in-top-court-seeking-re-verification-of-draft-101620927112739.html
13-05-2021||India||Remdesivir black marketeers held in Kolkata, 100 mg vials sold for ₹25,000 each||The Kolkata Police on Wednesday night arrested three men and seized from their possession 132 vials of Remdesivir injections which they were trying to sell for ₹25,000 each, taking advantage of the demand-supply mismatch amid a sharp spike in Coronavirus infections in the state. The price printed on the 100 mg vials was ₹2700, said police officers, who conducted the raid. Incidentally, in late-April, major manufacturers such as Cipla and Cadila had reduced the price to ₹899 following the Centre’s intervention. Murlidhar Sharma, joint commissioner of police (crime), said on Wednesday night the police received a complaint from Shankar Singh, a resident of Gariahat in south Kolkata, regarding the black marketeers and arrested Raj Kumar Roy Chowdhury, Indrajit Hazra and Debabrata Sahoo from different parts of the city. They were charged under several sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Disaster Management Act. On May 2, Jay Asutosh Mittal, a resident of Bangur Avenue in north Kolkata, was arrested on a similar charge. Police recovered 18 vials of Remcor 100 mg injections from his possession. On Tuesday, the detective department of the Kolkata Police nabbed a man who was asking for huge amounts of money in exchange for hospital beds for Covid-19 patients. Sheikh Nasiruddin, the accused, used to call up unsuspecting people and identify himself as a civil servant. He was nabbed from Pujali in South 24 Parganas district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/remdesivir-black-marketeers-held-in-kolkata-100-mg-vials-sold-for-rs-25-000-each-101620926032058.html
13-05-2021||India||PM Narenda Modi expected to join G7 summit in UK virtually||Narendra Modi is expected to join the UK-hosted G7 summit in Cornwall next month virtually, the British government said on Thursday after India's Ministry of External Affairs announced that the prime minister would not be attending the meeting in person.Modi was invited by Prime Minister Boris Johnson as India is one of three guest nations to the June 11-13 summit, alongside Australia and South Korea, as part of Britain's Indo-Pacific foreign policy focus.The guest leaders would be invited to take part in certain sessions of the Group of Seven meeting, presided by the UK and made up of Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, US, and the European Union (EU).“We are of course disappointed that Prime Minister Modi will not be able to attend the G7 in person because of domestic coronavirus priorities, but we look forward to welcoming him to the summit virtually,” a UK government spokesperson said.“We will continue to work closely with India in the run up to and during the summit on our shared goals for the future,” the spokesperson said.Officials in Britain have indicated that they do not expect the change of travel plans to detract from any of the planned discussions at the meeting.On Tuesday, the Ministry of External Affairs confirmed that the COVID-19 situation in the country had led to Prime Minister Modi cancelling plans to travel to the UK.“While appreciating the invitation to the Prime Minister by UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson to attend the G7 summit as a special invitee, given the prevailing Covid-19 situation, it has been decided that the Prime Minister will not attend the G-7 Summit in person,” an MEA official spokesperson said in New Delhi.The move follows the G7 Foreign and Development Ministers Meeting held in London last week, where Minister of External Affairs S. Jaishankar participated as a guest of UK Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab.Most of his meetings took on a virtual form after members of the Indian delegation tested positive for Covid-19. The minister later tweeted to indicate that it had been a “false alarm”.“Good to be back home, all of us having tested negative for Covid. These are difficult times and false alarms do happen. Thank those who sent their good wishes,” Jaishankar said last week on his return to Delhi from London.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narenda-modi-expected-to-join-g7-summit-in-uk-virtually-101620925199682.html
13-05-2021||India||Pro-actively looking for action on WhatsApp privacy rules issue: Centre||The government is "pro-actively" looking at best possible options around WhatsApp new privacy rules, a senior Ministry of Electronics and IT official said on Thursday.WhatsApp had set May 15 for its users to accept a change in privacy policy but later scrapped the deadline for users to accept the controversial update.The instant mobile messaging firm has also said that not accepting the terms will not lead to deletion of accounts.WhatsApp had faced severe backlash over user concerns that data was being shared with parent company Facebook."The ministry is cognisant of this problem. Today, Germany has banned this privacy policy of WhatsApp. The ministry is proactively looking at what we can do about it," MeitY Special Secretary and Financial Advisor Jyoti Arora said at an Assocham event.She was responding to concerns raised by a Jharkhand government official on people in rural areas being pushed to accept WhatsApp new privacy rules even though they are not aware of its impact on them.Arora during the event said the pandemic has pushed usage of digital services across the country and there is a need to have robust cybersecurity infrastructure."When you have a digitally fast-growing economy, cyber trust becomes a critical element to ensure that we are able to achieve the intended economic outcome by the use of technology," Arora said.She said that in 2020, the country's cybersecurity watchdog Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-IN) had reported that there were 3 lakh cyber incidents only in the digital banking which is a two-fold increase from 2018.She said MeitY has taken multiple initiatives for cybersecurity, including setting up of Cyber Swachhta Kendra" (Botnet Cleaning and Malware Analysis Centre) and sectoral CERTs in the area of finance and power."We have an integrated grid and all these grids are connected to all our generation systems whether they are nuclear plants or coal plants. A single major cyber incident can put the country in the darkness."We have to be up to speed to see that all these vulnerabilities are plugged and we are ahead of people who are trying to be in the damage need and, therefore, there is need for cyber experts," Arora said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/proactively-looking-for-action-on-whatsapp-privacy-rules-issue-centre-101620924635201.html
13-05-2021||India||Peak will come, Covid-19 can again emerge, says Centre||As the country battles the second wave of Covid-19, the government Thursday said the virus may emerge again and so preparations have to be made at the national level in collaboration with states, infrastructure needs to be ramped up while curbs and appropriate behaviour must be followed.Dismissing allegations that the government was unaware of the intensity of the second wave, NITI Aayog member (health) Dr V K Paul said, "We kept warning again and again from this platform that the second wave of Covid-19 will come.""It was said that the sero-positivity is 20 per cent, 80 per cent of the population is still vulnerable and that virus has not gone anywhere and other countries were also witnessing a resurge."At a press conference, Paul said, "The prime minister had conveyed the country about the emerging second wave on March 17 without creating panic and had said that we have to fight it."Also Read| More than 2 billion doses of Covid-19 vaccines to become available in India soon"Was such a peak expected," he said, "well, no modelling can predict the size of a peak as the unexpected behaviour virus is well known.""So peak will come, the virus can again emerge, we know. So preparations have to be made at country level in collaboration with states, infrastructure has to be ramped up, containment measures have to be implemented and Covid appropriate behaviour has to be followed."We had not created panic... other countries have faced multiple peaks after all it's a pandemic," he said.He said it is the nature of the disease that it will ultimately go to villages.This epidemiology is well known, Paul said as he urged people to follow Covid appropriate behaviour and embrace vaccination.Joint secretary in the health ministry Lav Agarwal said that plateauing in daily new Covid-19 cases and a slight decline positivity rate have been recorded in the country over the past three days, but added 10 states still have a positivity rate of more than 25 per cent which was "worrisome trend".He said as many as 12 states have more than 1 lakh active Covid-19 cases, while 24 states have more than 15 per cent case positivity rate. Also Read| PM Modi to interact with DMs of 100 districts with high Covid-19 caseloads"There are 10 states --Goa, Puducherry, West Bengal, Karntaka, Haryana, Rajasthan, Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh and Odisha where the Covid-19 case positivity rate is more than 25 per cent while there are eight states including Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and Kerala where it is more than 20 per cent, which is a worrisome trend," he said.  He, however, said the number of districts with week-on week rise in Covid-19 tests, yet decline in positivity rate has increased from 125 in April 22-28 to 338 between May 6 and 12.  Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Rajasthan,Chhattisgarh, Bihar, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Goa and Telangana were among 20 states and union territories showing continued plateauing or decrease in daily new Covid-19 cases.Kerala, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal,Punjab, Assam, Odisha, Himachal Pradesh, Pudusherry and Manipur were among 16 states and union territories showing continued increasing trend in daily new Covid-19 cases and remain area of concern.There 316 districts showing an increasing trend in Covid-19 cases since last two weeks while 187 districts have relatively shown a decline in Covid-19 cases during the same period , he said.India has been reeling under a catastrophic second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. On Thursday, the country added 3,62,727 new coronavirus infections, taking the Covid-19 tally of cases to 2,37,03,665, while the death toll rose to 2,58,317 with 4,120 daily fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated this morning.The active cases have increased to 37,10,525 comprising 15.65 per cent of the total infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/peak-will-come-covid-19-can-again-emerge-says-centre-101620924736247.html
13-05-2021||India||Kerala CM writes to PM Modi again, seeks oxygen amid rising Covid-19 cases||With the Covid-19 health crisis deteriorating steadily in Kerala, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday rushed another letter to Prime Minister Modi seeking additional 300 tonnes of medical oxygen on an urgent basis. This is the third letter the CM has written to the Prime Minister in 10 days. “We have capacity to generate 212 tonnes daily but experts have said the oxygen demand will rise to 426 tonnes in view of rising Covid-19 cases. Besides this, a low pressure is also forming fast in the Arabian Sea and it is likely to take cyclonic proportions. So we have to get prepared,” he said in the letter. A red alert was sounded in five districts in view of the cyclonic storm.Kerala has reported another high on Thursday clocking 39,955 cases with a test positivity rate (TPR) of 28.61 per cent. Two districts have reported TPR above 30 per cent-- Ernakulam 32 and Malappuram 38. And in some places in these districts, the TPR is above 50 per cent, health ministry data shows.With the active caseload rising, the government has given directions to all district administrations to build makeshift hospitals to meet the influx of patients. They have been asked to take the help of state and central public sector units in their districts. So, many schools, colleges, hostels and stadiums have been turned into temporary hospitals to meet the surge.In one of the worst–affected districts in Ernakulam the country’s largest temporary Covid-19 hospital is coming up in Ambalavayal in Kochi with 1500 beds with direct oxygen supply from the nearby Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (BPCL) plant. Ernakulam district collector S Suhas said the first phase of the hospital with 500 beds has opened to patients and it will be fully functional by next week.“We deliberately chose the place for the makeshift hospital because of the proximity to the BPCL plant. We will have direct oxygen supply from the plant and it will save enough time in transportation and logistics,” said the young collector. In several parts of the country the delay in supply of oxygen cylinders and technical glitches resulted in many deaths,” he said. “We are fighting hard to contain the surge. But this new hospital, the largest with 1500 oxygen beds, will be a game changer. We can contain the fatality rate considerably in the district,” he said. The BPCL has the capacity to deliver 2 tonnes of medical oxygen daily and it can be raised after gauging the need. The district administration has also appointed 400 nurses and other medical workers for the new hospital.One of the worst-hit districts in the second wave--- in Ernakulam eight local self-governing bodies like Chellanam and Thrikkakara have a test positivity rate (TPR) of 50 per cent and in urban areas it is around 30 per cent. “The high TPR is a concern but we are doing our best to bring down numbers. Cases are increasing due to the presence of strong mutants and we are trying to perk up the recovery rate to control the influx,” a senior health official said adding that only serious patients who need oxygen will be admitted to the new hospital in Ambalavayal. A commercial hub Kochi has a sizeable population of workers from other states especially the north east.A close look at the health ministry data shows that in the last two weeks there has been a steady rise in cases and fatality rate. On Thursday when 1,39, 656 people were tested 39,955 tested positive. The state also reported 97 deaths taking the total fatality rate to 6,150. The active caseload also rose to 4,38,913. Among the 14 districts, in 10 districts the TPR is above 20 per cent. The state is currently under a lockdown till May 16 and it is likely to be extended.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-cm-writes-to-pm-modi-again-seeks-oxygen-amid-rising-covid-19-cases-101620924831910.html
13-05-2021||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Opening up Covid-19 vaccination to everyone over the age of 18 and making vaccines available in the open market are both good ideas.There is very significant vaccine hesitancy across India. Things have improved, but a large number of people, even in states with high levels of literacy and awareness, still don’t want to be vaccinated; Tamil Nadu is a case in point. Universal eligibility (anyone over the age of 18; vaccines are still being tested on the younger population) is therefore the surest way of reaching a critical number of vaccinations even as the Centre and state work on overcoming vaccine hesitancy.India has an estimated 940 million people over the age of 18. Experts say that vaccines will start having an impact on infection rates when 40% of the eligible population has been vaccinated, if even partially, as long as non-pharmaceutical interventions (the wearing of masks, social distancing, a ban on large events) continue. That’s 376 million people. India has so far administered vaccines to around 125 million people (98.6 million have received one dose and 26.7 million both doses). It needs to vaccinate around 250 million more people.Also read | Covid-19: What you need to know todayOpen-market access may perpetuate inequity but it will mean that those who can afford and have access to private health care facilities will scramble to get vaccinated, helping take the number of those vaccinated closer to that 375 million mark.If this approach seems too focused on the number, it is because that is the only proven way to crush the pandemic. The Centre and the states should, even as they work on removing vaccine hesitancy, also work to remove the inequity in the distribution of the vaccine — but forsaking the open market approach because it perpetuates inequity will end up being counterproductive in the short term.The real problem is supply.India clearly does not have enough vaccines at this point in time. This may change over the next few months, with enhanced capacities at both Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech kicking in, and imports of Sputnik V, but there’s still a lack of information on the timing and quantities involved. It would help to have details of exactly how many doses SII and Bharat Biotech will produce every month (for at the least the next six months). Half of these will be given to the Centre for the vaccination of people over the age of 45, and the other half will be available for purchase by the states, private hospitals and enterprises, and, exports (both companies have contractual export commitments).Also read | Covid-19: What really mattersBased on publicly available information, for the next few months, this split is likely to be 40-50 million for the first (Centre), and 40-50 million for the second (states, private channels, exports). It is expected to become 55-75 million for the first, and 55-75 million for the second after that (the wide range is because we do not have complete information on the capacities of the two companies from June or July).And the real problem is the prioritisation and optimisation of supplies. Again, SII, Bharat, and as and when imports of Sputnik V are available, the vaccine’s distributor in India Dr Reddy’s, will have to transparently state how they are going to prioritise and phase orders across states, private buyers and exports.If all this information is available, then all the states (and Union territories) have to do is to solve the fairly basic optimisation problem they are presented with, assuming an upper bound to the number of vaccinations that can be carried out in a day.At a national level, given the experience of Phase 1 and Phase 2 of the vaccine drive, it may not be possible to administer more than five million doses a day (and this can be cascaded down into targets for each state and Union territory).To avoid confusion, the Centre, the states, and the vaccine makers/suppliers will have to sit down together and solve this optimisation problem — and then launch Phase 3 of the drive (a launch on May 1 is impossible and impractical). They can throw another important variable in the mix that can help them reach the 375 million number sooner — extending the time between two Covishield doses to 10-12 weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-what-you-need-to-know-today-101620923256279.html
13-05-2021||India||‘We were prepared for 3rd phase of Covid-19 vaccination, but..’: Chhattisgarh CM||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel said on Thursday that the state was prepared for the third phase of the vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) from May 1 after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement, but the vaccine doses are still unavailable. Under the third phase of the vaccination drive, doses are being administered to beneficiaries between 18-44 years.“On May 1, we got 150,000 doses and on May 9, we received the second consignment of only 350,000 doses. Now neither the Centre nor the vaccine manufacturers are able to tell when we will get more doses,” Baghel was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.He also pointed out that the state government placed orders for vaccines with the Serum Institute of India (SII) as well as Bharat Biotech. “But the consignments are arriving in the state at the behest of the Centre. There is no specific information on when we will get the doses,” the chief minister said.Also Read| Chhattisgarh launches new portal to vaccinate those without mobile, internetChhattisgarh, which is currently seeing a downfall in its daily Covid-19 disease cases, has till now vaccinated over 5.94 million beneficiaries of which 4,957,168 have received the first dose and 984,556 have been inoculated with both doses. On May 9, the state government announced that journalists, lawyers, employees of the state government and state public sector undertaking (PSU) employees will be treated as frontline workers and will be vaccinated on priority.Underlining the fact that vaccination is essential to combat Covid-19, CM Baghel told news agency ANI the drive to administer doses should be sped up in view of the potential third wave of the pandemic.Also Read| Positivity rate down in Chhattisgarh but surge in infections in rural areas“Money is needed for vaccination. All states are carrying out their duties. But the way in which the Centre gave free vaccines to healthcare and frontline workers, this should have been decided for common citizens too,” Baghel said, adding that the free vaccination for common citizens was left to the states, who decided they cannot leave their people just like that.“State governments have decided to bear this burden. Unfortunately, vaccine availability is at minimum. In this situation, vaccination for everyone seems far-fetched,” the Chhattisgarh CM told ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-were-prepared-for-3rd-phase-of-covid-19-vaccination-but-chhattisgarh-cm-101620922758266.html
13-05-2021||India||Amid Covid surge, Uttarakhand looks at sugar mills to increase oxygen production||Uttarakhand minister Swami Yatishwaranand has asked officials to rope in sugar mills to start producing oxygen to augment the supply of the life-saving gas in view of the rising Covid-19 cases in the state.Two sugar mills in Haridwar have already agreed to the proposal, the minister for sugarcane development and sugar industry said.In a letter to ministry secretary Chandresh Kumar, Yatishwaranand cited the example of Osmanabad in Maharashtra where an oxygen plant is being run at a sugar factory and asked him to start work in that direction in Uttarakhand too.The minister said he had spoken to the management of the Dharashiv Sugar Mill in Osmanabad and also collected information about a dozen sugar mills that are running oxygen plants in neighbouring Uttar Pradesh.Quoting Uttar Pradesh Sugarcane Minister Suresh Rana, Yatishwaranand said oxygen plants can be set up easily in sugar mills producing ethanol.Two sugar mills in Haridwar district, Laksar Sugar Mill and Uttam Sugar Mill, that produce ethanol have already agreed to producing medical grade oxygen, Yatishwaranand said, adding that the additional production of oxygen will help a lot in the current Covid-19 situation.Uttarakhand is grappling with the second wave of Covid-19 at every level, Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat had said on Wednesday while flagging off trucks carrying 80 metric tonnes of oxygen sent by the Centre to different places in Kumaon and Garhwal divisions of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-covid-surge-uttarakhand-looks-at-sugar-mills-to-increase-oxygen-production-101620919361858.html
13-05-2021||India||18 wild elephants killed in Assam’s Nagaon district probably due to lightning||Eighteen wild elephants have been killed, most probably due to lightning, in Assam’s Nagaon district, officials informed on Thursday. “The incident took place at Bamuni area of Barhampur on Wednesday. Our officials got to know about it on Thursday. Teams of forest and veterinary officials are at the spot to take stock of the tragedy,” Nagaon, deputy commissioner Kavitha Padmanabham said. The deaths took place in an area with small hillocks and forests. Officials suspect the elephants, which were part of a herd, were staying close to each other when lightning struck. While four bodies were found at the bottom of a hillock, 14 others were found at the top. “Preliminary investigation of the spot suggests lightning could be the reason for the deaths. All the elephants killed were adults and sub-adults,” Vasanthan, divisional forest officer (Nagaon), said. “We are trying to recover all the bodies and conduct post-mortem. The exact cause of the deaths would be known only after the results are out, most likely by Friday,” he added. Wildlife experts confirmed that the incident was the single largest instance of deaths of wild elephants in one go. They also suspected that there could be other reasons as well for the deaths. Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma has expressed shock and anguish at the deaths of the elephants and directed forest and environment minister Parimal Suklabaidya to visit the spot immediately.“A tragedy of such scale is unheard of in Assam. It is a big loss. While lightning has been suspected to be the cause, mass poisoning of the pachyderms shouldn’t be ruled out,” said Bibhab Talukdar, noted elephant expert and CEO of Aaranyak, a Guwahati-based wildlife NGO. “Assam has witnessed poisonings of wild elephants in the past, though not on such a large scale. I hope a thorough probe is done to know the exact cause behind the deaths,” he added. According to a 2017 census, Assam (5719) has the second highest number of elephants in India after Karnataka (6049). Every year, several elephants are killed in man-animal conflict due to electrocution, poisonings etc. In 2019, the number of such deaths was nearly 80.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/18-wild-elephants-killed-in-assam-s-nagaon-district-probably-due-to-lightning-101620919311849.html
13-05-2021||India||'Nothing can compensate for the loss': Israel official offers help to family of Kerala woman killed in rocket attack||Israel’s deputy chief of Mission to India, Rony Yedidia Clein, said on Thursday that the family of Soumya Santosh, who was killed in a rocket attack by Hamas, will be taken care of by the Israeli authorities.“The family will be taken care of by the Israeli authorities in compensation for what happened, although nothing can ever compensate for the loss of a mother and wife,” Clein was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Clein also said that she has been in touch with the family of Santosh from Kerala, who died during a rocket attack in the Israeli city of Ashkelon. Clein extended her condolences to Santosh’s husband, adding that Israel will help in flying her mortal remains back to India.“We've been in touch with the family. She was talking to her husband when this happened and I can imagine how horrendous it's for the husband. I can only sympathise with what he must be feeling,” Santosh told ANI.Thirty-two-year-old Soumya Santosh, who hailed from Idukki, had been working in Israel for the last seven years. She was employed as a house help at a Jewish household in Ashkelon at the time of her death. On Tuesday afternoon, during a video call with her husband back home, the building she was residing in was hit by a rocket fired by Hamas.“She was complaining about the worsening situation and I heard a huge explosion. When I called her after ten minutes there was no answer,” her husband told HT.Israeli ambassador Ron Malka had reached out to Santosh’s family on Wednesday, to extend his condolences to her near ones. Malka drew a parallel between Santosh’s nine-year-old son Adon and Moshe Holtzberg, a Jewish boy who survived the 26/11 siege of Chabad House but lost both his parents, and the tragedies they both suffered at a young age."My heart goes out to her 9-year-old son, Adon, who has lost his mother at such a young age and will have to grow up without her. This evil attack reminds me of little Moses, who also lost his parents during the 2008 #Mumbaiattacks. May God give them strength and courage," Malka tweeted.The on-going conflict between Israel and Palestine started after clashes on May 7 at the revered site of Al-Aqsa Mosque in Jerusalem's Old City.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nothing-can-compensate-for-the-loss-israel-official-offers-help-to-family-of-kerala-woman-killed-in-rocket-attack-101620918877951.html
13-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Bengal guv Dhankar visits post-poll violence hit areas, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.'Destruction of democracy': Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankar after visiting areas hit by post-poll violenceWest Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar visited Sitalkuchi in the Cooch Behar district, where four people were killed in firing by Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) during fourth phase of assembly polls on April 10. The governor said that he is shocked to see condition in the area in the wake of post-poll violence. Read morePunjab joins COVAX to procure Covid-19 vaccines at affordable pricesThe Punjab government joined the Covid-19 Vaccines Global Access (COVAX) initiative to procure Covid-19 vaccines globally at the best price, becoming the first state in India to do so, chief minister Amarinder Singh’s office announced on Thursday. The decision to join COVAX alliance was taken during a virtual Cabinet meeting, chaired by the chief minister. Read moreKerala orders ban on fishing till May 17 in wake of cyclonic stormThe Kerala state disaster management authority (SDMA) announced on Thursday that fishing will be banned near the coast of the state till May 17 in wake of a low pressure area over southeast Arabian Sea and the adjacent Lakshadweep area which is like to intensify into a cyclonic storm by May 16 (Sunday). Named ‘Tauktae’, it will be the first cyclonic storm of 2021. Read moreBihar extends Covid-19 lockdown: What’s allowed and what’s notBihar chief minister Nitish Kumar announced on Thursday that a state-wide lockdown, in effect since May 5 to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), is being extended by 10 days, till May 25. Originally scheduled to end on Saturday, the lockdown will enter extended phase from May 16 onwards. Read moreRamesh Powar appointed head coach of Indian Women’s Cricket TeamThe Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) on Thursday appointed former Indian cricketer Ramesh Powar as the head coach of Indian Women’s Cricket Team. The Indian cricket board had advertised for the post and received over 35 applications. Read moreDell XPS 13 9310 review: The Intel 11th-gen eye-candyDell’s XPS laptop lineup has always been an eye-candy for those who want a beautiful looking piece of hardware that runs Windows. However, the same focus has been given to the power underneath all that metal chassis as well. Read moreRadhe Your Most Wanted Bhai movie review: Salman Khan's torture of a film is among his worst everIt takes some doing to make a film, that leaves one wondering, if it would really have been that bad if the pandemic took you out last week. With Radhe: Your Most Wanted Bhai, Salman Khan brings yet another deadly wave of cringeworthy one-liners, cheap CGI action, and a senseless story that are a torture to sit through. Read moreExplained: How Israel-Palestine hostilities peaked & the human cost of violenceViolence has escalated between Israel and Palestine in the last few days. Rockets streamed out of Gaza towards Israeli cities and the Israeli Army pounded the territory in retaliation with air strikes. This has been by far the most severe outbreak of violence since 2014. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-bengal-guv-dhankar-visits-post-poll-violence-hit-areas-and-all-the-latest-news-101620916876175.html
13-05-2021||India||Maharashtra records less than 50,000 new Covid-19 cases for 5th day in a row||Maharashtra reported 42,582 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases and 850 deaths on Thursday which took the total tally in the state to 5,269,292 while the death toll reached 78,857. A total of 250,398 people were tested in the state in the past 24 hours and the total number of recoveries in the state stood at 4,654,731 as 54,535 people were discharged, the bulletin showed.The state, which has consistently reported a high number of Covid-19 infections and remains the worst affected state in the country due to the second wave of the pandemic, added 46,781 new cases on Wednesday and 816 related deaths. On Tuesday, the state reported 40,956 cases while on Monday, 37,236 new cases were logged by the state.Read more: Maharashtra to compile database of mucormycosis to assess its spreadMaharashtra’s capital Mumbai reported 1,952 cases on Thursday and 68 deaths which took the total number of cases in the city to 683,185 and the death toll to 14,040. On Wednesday, Mumbai added 2,104 new Covid-19 cases and 66 fatalities.With the aim to contain the spread of the infection, the Maharashtra government on Thursday extended the ongoing restrictions in the state till June 1, 7am. The existing lockdown in the state was supposed to end on May 15.State health minister Rajesh Tope said on Wednesday that the measures taken by the government have resulted in a decline in Covid-19 cases in the state."The strict measures under the 'Break the Chain' directives introduced by the Maharashtra government have definitely brought down the number of Covid-19 cases, but the curve is not stable yet. There are some 12-15 districts in the state that have shown a decline in Covid-19 cases," Tope said.Read more: Kolhapur with highest Covid fatality rate in Maharashtra; experts visit cityTope cautioned that some districts in the state have still been reporting high number of cases. and therefore are a cause of concern for the government."We need to focus on these districts more. The positivity rate is still not below 10 per cent. These are the reasons why cabinet ministers are in favour of extending lockdown in the state," Tope added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-records-less-than-50k-new-covid-19-cases-for-5th-day-in-a-row-101620908448976.html
13-05-2021||India||MBBS brother of Glasgow suicide attacker offers to treat Covid-19 patients in Tihar||Dr Sabeel Ahmad – the brother of June 2007 Glasgow airport suicide attacker Kafeel Ahmed, currently lodged in Tihar Jail for allegedly trying to establish Al-Qaeda in the Indian Sub-continent (AQIS) as well as for recruiting for Lashkar-e-Taiba, has approached a Delhi court seeking permission to provide his medical expertise in treating Covid-19 patients in jail. Sabeel stated in his application before Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana at Patiala House Courts that he is a qualified MBBS doctor with seven years of experience in management/treatment of critical cases. HT has reviewed his application, filed on Wednesday. “His experience and expertise of being a medical professional would be helpful for dealing with the surge in Covid-19 cases and treatment of inmates in Central Jail, Tihar,” said his lawyer M S Khan. Sabeel, 39, a resident of Bengaluru, was convicted for 18 months in the Glasgow attack case for withholding information from the authorities about his brother’s suicide mission and was deported to India in 2008. In 2010, he went to Saudi Arabia and started working at King Fahad Hospital. According to investigation carried out by Indian agencies, while in Saudi Arabia, Sabeel, also known as ‘Motu Doctor’, was providing logistical and financial support to LeT and was also in touch with some terror suspects based in Pakistan. It is alleged that the LeT members had planned to attack Hindu leaders, some prominent journalists and government officials in Bengaluru, Hubli, Hyderabad and Nanded. Sabeel was also convicted in Riyadh in a case of collecting donations allegedly for operating a school in India and for storing some items which had the potential to harm public order. He stayed in a prison in Saudi Arabia from February 9, 2016 till August 28, 2020, the day he was brought to New Delhi on deportation. In its charge sheet against Sabeel, filed on February 22 this year, the NIA has stated that Sabeel was in touch with Shaheed Faisal, one of the suspects in the LeT case, who is believed to be in Pakistan. HT has reviewed the NIA charge sheet. He was brought to India on deportation from Riyadh on August 28 last year and was put under arrest by the National Investigation Agency (NIA). Delhi Police’s Special Cell also arrested him in February this year in a conspiracy case of AQIS alleging that he played a role in arranging logistics and finances for arrested wanted terrorists in India and abroad. Advocate M S Khan said – “The two investigation agencies – Delhi Police and NIA –themselves are not on the same page. Is he a LeT operative or AQIS? There is no evidence against Sabeel Ahmed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mbbs-brother-of-glasgow-suicide-attacker-offers-to-treat-covid-19-patients-in-tihar-101620917571458.html
13-05-2021||India||India welcomes shipment of 10,000 rapid testing kits from Korea||Highlighting the continuing cooperation with the Republic of Korea, India welcomed the shipment of 10,000 rapid testing kits from the country that arrived on Thursday evening, said the Ministry of External Affairs spokesperson Arindam Bagchi. Bagchi said on Twitter, "Our continuing cooperation with the Republic of Korea. Welcome the shipment of 10000 rapid testing kits from the Republic of Korea that arrived today."The first flight just landed at the airport at 16:30 hrs, carrying 10,000 rapid testing kits. These medical supplies will be donated to the Indian Red Cross Society for further distribution to hospitals and healthcare centres in the country.The government of the Republic of Korea is continuing with its emergency medical support to India to help it fight the surge in Covid-19 cases in the country. Three more special flights, containing 100 portable oxygen concentrators, 10 ventilators, 100 negative pressure carriers, and 10,000 antigen detection kits (for 250,000 tests) are arriving at IGI Airport, New Delhi.Earlier the Korean government had sent two planeloads of medical supplies--230 oxygen concentrators, 200 oxygen cylinders, and 100 negative pressure carriers--on May (9 and 12).Korea stands side by side with India in this hour of turmoil and will continue to extend its helping hand in fighting the menace of Covid -19 in the country. In the coming days, more medical supplies will arrive from Korea.As India fights against COVID, global support poured in to support the country in its medical crisis. Several countries have sent oxygen cylinders, oxygen tanks, medicines, PPE kits, and raw materials for the manufacturing of vaccines.The total positive cases in the country so far stand at 2,37,03,665. This includes 1,97,34,823 recoveries and 2,58,317 reported deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-welcomes-shipment-of-10-000-rapid-testing-kits-from-korea-101620913736798.html
13-05-2021||India||Kerala orders ban on fishing till May 17 in wake of cyclonic storm||The Kerala state disaster management authority (SDMA) announced on Thursday that fishing will be banned near the coast of the state till May 17 in wake of a low pressure area over southeast Arabian Sea and the adjacent Lakshadweep area which is like to intensify into a cyclonic storm by May 16 (Sunday). Named ‘Tauktae’, it will be the first cyclonic storm of 2021.Officials told news agency PTI on Wednesday that a fisherman from Anchuthengu - a coastal town in Thiruvananthapuram district - died after he was struck by lightning while fishing on Tuesday night.Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday also advised fishermen to not venture into the sea and added that the state will witness heavy rainfall in the next few days. “Extremely heavy rainfall has been predicted in the next few days by the IMD. Yellow and Orange alerts have been issued in several districts from May 14-16,” the chief minister’s office (CMO) tweeted.Also Read| ‘Tauktae’ likely to be an intense cyclone as oceanic conditions favourable, warn scientistsAccording to a list shared by the state government, yellow alert has been issued for the capital city Thiruvananthapuram and Malappuram, while Kollam, Idukki, Kottayam, Ernakulam, Alappuzha and Pathanamthitta districts have been placed under the orange alert.CM Vijayan also urged everyone to follow safety guidelines issued by the Kerala SDMA. The state disaster management authority has urged all those living in coastal areas and landslide prone areas to exercise precautions. Authorities have been ordered to open up relief camps in adherence to all coronavirus disease (Covid-19) protocols, PTI reported. People have been advised by the SDMA to avoid travelling in high-range (hilly) areas during night time.In view of the cyclonic storm, Vijayan requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to immediately provide at least 300 metric tonnes (MT) of oxygen to Kerala from neighbouring storage points in order to increase the storage of the life saving gas in hospitals treating Covid-19 patients. In a letter addressed to PM Modi, the chief minister said that due to the cyclonic storm, there might be disruptions in the electricity supply to oxygen concentrator plants and filling stations. Road transport will also get disrupted "which would impede timely oxygen supply necessary to save lives", he said in the letter to the Prime Minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-orders-ban-on-fishing-till-may-17-in-wake-of-cyclonic-storm-101620915980961.html
13-05-2021||India||Asaram seeks bail for Ayurvedic treatment, HC hearing adjourned till May 21||Self-styled godman Asaram will now have to wait at least a week before the Rajasthan High Court decides if he can be given interim bail for medical treatment through Ayurveda in Haridwar.For now, the rape convict who was admitted at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Jodhpur after being infected with coronavirus will continue his treatment there.The division bench of Justice Sandeep Mehta and Justice Devendra Kachhawaha on Thursday adjourned the hearing on the bail plea till May 21, summoning a fresh medical report.The adjournment followed submission of his medical report by the AIIMS, advising the completion of his treatment for Covid-19 and his isolation.In its order, the court said it is taking into view Asaram’s old age and medical condition to direct that “his treatment shall be continued at the AIIMS, Jodhpur under supervision of the concerned doctors/specialists”.Earlier, his counsel Siddharth Luthra, appearing through video conference from Delhi, argued that Asaram suffered from heart and other ailments and preferred Ayurvedic treatment for them.But public prosecutor Anil Joshi countered that Asaram is currently undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at AIIMS and there is no point arguing on his bail plea until he is cured and has completed the 14-day isolation period.Joshi said the AIIMS medical report did not point to any other physical ailment as stated by Asaram.The court adjourned the hearing till May 21 and sought a fresh medical report from AIIMS.Asaram had tested positive for coronavirus in Jodhpur Central jail and was admitted at MG Hospital on May 5 after he complained of difficulty in breathing.Two days later, he was shifted to AIIMS, where he has been undergoing treatment for Covid-19. His condition is stated to be stable there.In 2018, a Jodhpur court sentenced Asaram to life imprisonment for raping a minor at his ashram in Rajasthan five years earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/asaram-seeks-bail-for-ayurvedic-treatment-hc-hearing-adjourned-till-may-21-101620914467996.html
13-05-2021||India||Punjab joins COVAX to procure Covid-19 vaccines at affordable prices||The Punjab government joined the Covid-19 Vaccines Global Access (COVAX) initiative to procure Covid-19 vaccines globally at the best price, becoming the first state in India to do so, chief minister Amarinder Singh’s office announced on Thursday. The decision to join COVAX alliance was taken during a virtual Cabinet meeting, chaired by the chief minister.“The Captain Amarinder Singh led Punjab government on Thursday decided to join the COVAX facility alliance for global sourcing and procurement of Covid vaccines at the best price, becoming the first state in the country to take such a well thought out strategic initiative towards addressing the problem of vaccine shortage amid the deadly second wave of the pandemic,” the state government said in a press release.Punjab has been lagging behind in administering vaccines to its population and the state’s health minister met Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Wednesday to discuss ramping up of vaccination. The Union health minister asked the health minister of 8 states and union territories to not be “unrealistic” when it comes to demands for the necessary number of vaccines. He also asked these states to focus on delivering second shots that are due before administering the first doses to the next age group.“Hence it is very important that we first focus more on second dose vaccinations. States should not lose sight of those who are to get the second dose of Covid vaccine: 70% at minimum ought to be allocated to meet the requirement of the second dose, while 30% ought to be reserved for the first dose,” Vardhan told states.Following unavailability of vaccines, the Punjab government decided to join the COVAX alliance, since it offers global vaccines at the best possible price. The idea of joining COVAX was suggested by Dr Gagandeep Kaur. who heads the Punjab Expert Group on Vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-joins-covax-to-procure-covid-19-vaccines-at-affordable-prices-101620912829093.html
13-05-2021||India||Willing to scale up Covaxin production, invite other companies: Govt||Top government advisor Dr VK Paul said on Thursday that the central government and Bharat Biotech - which manufactures Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin - are willing to invite other companies which want to produce it. Dr Paul said that the decision has been taken to scale up the vaccine production."People say that Covaxin be given to other companies for manufacturing. I am happy to say that Covaxin manufacturing company (Bharat Biotech) has welcomed this when we discussed it with them. Under this vaccine live virus is inactivated and this is done only in BSL3 labs," said Dr Paul."Not every company has this. We give an open invitation to companies who want to do this. Companies that want to manufacture Covaxin, should do it together. The government will assist so that capacity is increased," he added.Talking about the vaccination coverage in his presentation NITI Aayog member emphasised that one-third of the population aged 45 years and above are now covered.Many states in the country have said that there is a shortage of Covid-19 vaccine which has caused them to stop ongoing inoculation drive. Worst-affected Maharashtra and Delhi are among these states. Karnataka too announced on Thursday that it has stopped the vaccination drive.Highlighting the latest feat achieved by the country, Dr Paul disclosed that nearly 18 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccine have been administered in India, whereas, in the US, the number stands around 26 crore which shows that India stands in the third position in the overall vaccination tally in the world.As many as 3,62,727 new Covid-19 cases, 3,52,181 discharges and 4,120 deaths were reported in India in the last 24 hours, the Union Health Ministry informed on Thursday.The total positive cases in the country so far stand at 2,37,03,665. This includes 1,97,34,823 recoveries and 2,58,317 reported deaths. There are currently 37,10,525 active cases in the country.A total of 17,72,14,256 doses of the COVID vaccine have been administered so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/willing-to-scale-up-covaxin-production-invite-other-companies-govt-101620912303668.html
13-05-2021||India||'Destruction of democracy': Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankar after visiting areas hit by post-poll violence||West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar visited Sitalkuchi in the Cooch Behar district, where four people were killed in firing by Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) during fourth phase of assembly polls on April 10. The governor said that he is shocked to see condition in the area in the wake of post-poll violence."This is total collapse of rule of law. I could have never imagined this. I have seen the fear of Police in the eyes of the people, they are scared to go to Police, their houses were looted. I'm really shocked, this is destruction of democracy," news agency ANI quoted Dhankar as saying."People have left their houses and are living in jungles. Women tell me, that they (goons) will come there once again and there is such failure of security before the governor. I'm shocked at it. I can imagine what the people here must be going through," he added.ANI also showed visuals where Dhankar was shown black flags by people during his visit. He also met the family members of those killed in the violThe governor is visiting the areas where violence took place after the counting of votes on May 2. On Saturday, he had expressed displeasure at not being updated on the law and order situation in the state with regard to post-poll violence by the chief secretary and director general of police (DGP).West Bengal was rocked by large scale violence after the bitterly fought state elections. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee said that 16 people of different political parties lost their lives in clashes after the end of the polls. A four-member team of the Union home ministry, tasked with looking into reasons for the post-poll violence in Bengal, had met Dhankhar at Raj Bhavan.The four-member team had visited the Diamond Harbour area of West Bengal's South 24 Parganas district on May 7 to assess the ground situation.A five-member Constitution Bench of the Calcutta High Court had also ordered the West Bengal Home Secretary to file a report mentioning the places where the violence occurred and the steps taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/destruction-of-democracy-dhankar-visits-areas-hit-by-post-poll-violence-101620911666282.html
13-05-2021||India||Underpaid, overburdened nursing staff struggles to cope with workload||Siraj Ahmad, a nurse at a Covid hospital in Kashmir, has stopped going home after work as he fears he may end up infecting his immunocompromised father. He has rented a room near the hospital but does have the money to pay its rent. His father has been paying for his accommodation since he is yet to get his salary three months after he was recruited under the Centre’s National Health Mission scheme.Ahmad said he has been working overtime and often for 30-hour non-stop. “The rent alone costs more than ₹5,000. ...There is even no risk allowance. I have to ask my father for the rent...even though I was promised ₹14,500 salary,” said Ahmad, who graduated last year.Ahmad is not alone. Many like him are underpaid or not paid at all as recent graduates have been recruited across the country to deal with the staff crunch amid the second Covid-19 wave that has overwhelmed the healthcare system.Lithiya Rejoice, who works at a Covid Centre in Kerala’s Thrissur and has recently graduated as a nurse after a four-year course, said they are paid regularly but not enough that they should get for the hectic work they do. She has been working eight hours daily for 10 days followed by a four-day break. Rejoice said they also do night shifts and are in Personal Protection Equipment for up to four hours daily.“.... ₹550 is given to us for a day for working in Covid wards. ...Since most of us have to continuously work for 10 days...the government has at least given us free accommodation at a hostel nearby,” said Rejoice.In Delhi, Rupam Upadhyay, who received her diploma in general nursing and midwifery, is slightly better off and gets ₹20,000 a month. Upadhyay that since she graduated in 2018, she has been working at a hospital in Punjabi Bagh. “Though we are paid 20,000...which might be a bit more than other states but the [work] load...30 patients alone at a time... such salary is very less,” said Upadhyay. “I work 12 hours a day and 12 hours at night on alternate dates all the while risking my life and those at my home. ₹20,000 for such work is very disrespectful for such service,” she said. She said there should be a reduction in work hours and an increase in salaries.Also Read | 15 more patients die at Goa hospital; relatives blame disruption in oxygen supplyKaran, a nursing graduate from Noida’s Sharda University, said he did not consider applying for a nursing post in his native Jammu because of paltry salary. He said it is unfair for a nursing graduate, who has trained for four years, to be paid less than a two-year diploma holder in lab testing.“Such disparity in salary is not acceptable,” he said. He added even a diploma holder in midwifery is paid the same as those who have bachelor’s degree in nursing.Roy K George, President of the Indian Association of Trained Nurses, accused the government of being negligent by not filling the vacancies of nurses across the country. He added nurses already faced a high workload and Covid has multiplied it many times. “In Kerala, where I come from, even an unskilled migrant worker gets 1,000 rupees a day for the work with no risk to life. However, a Covid ward nurse is not paid more than ₹550. This is absolutely shameful.” George added the situation for nurses across the country was depressing and 90 nurses have died of Covid since the pandemic began. He added these nurses were infected at hospitals.“We have stopped updating the numbers of deaths on our website because it demotivates the healthcare staff and causes more emotional stress.”Ranjan Sharma, president, Indian Medical Association, accused the government of treating the health care workers as a use and throw commodity. “Last time, the governments begged these professionals to lend their services. But when the first wave subsided, these people, who had put in everything to help the governments, were thrown out saying that it was too expensive to keep them,” said Sharma.“There is definitely money for advertisements, lavish houses to be constructed for the government functionaries but they do not have money to pay medical staff dying of Covid every day. Hundreds of our doctors and nurses have succumbed. What has the government done for them?”Sharma said Jammu & Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh had long halted recruitment of the paramedic staff, leading to increased workload on medical workers. “...governments like Himachal are not even ready to pay ₹50 a day for the qualified medical staff on Covid duty?”HT reached out to the Union health ministry for a comment, but there was no response despite repeated calls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/underpaid-overburdened-nursing-staff-struggles-to-cope-with-workload-101620911932480.html
13-05-2021||India||‘Tauktae’ likely to be an intense cyclone as oceanic conditions favourable, warn scientists||A low pressure area has formed over southeast Arabian Sea and adjoining Lakshadweep area on Thursday. It is very likely to become well marked over Lakshadweep by Friday and gradually intensify into cyclonic storm Tauktae on May 16.Once formed Cyclone Tauktae can strengthen further very rapidly as all atmospheric conditions are favouring its rapid intensification.“We cannot rule out intensification similar to Super Cyclone Amphan. At present it is difficult to say which category of intensification the cyclone will reach. But conditions are extremely favourable for its rapid intensification. Ocean heat potential is above normal; sea surface temperatures are 1-2 degree C above normal and Madden Julian Oscillation is also favouring rapid intensification. We should be prepared,” said Sunitha Devi, in-charge of cyclones at India Meteorological Department.“MJO is a wave type of propagation west to east across the globe which causes cloudiness and changes in wind direction,” explained Sunitha adding that it is difficult to predict the exact landfall location immediately. “There will be major influence on the Gujarat coast as this is a large and intense system. We are still studying the landfall location possibilities.”The Madden Julian Oscillation (MJO) is characterised by a band of rain clouds moving across the tropics, depending on their location they can assist cyclone build up, she explained.Tauktae meaning gecko (named by Myanmar) will be the first cyclone of this year.By Saturday morning the well-marked low-pressure area is likely to concentrate into a depression over the same region and intensify into a cyclone during the subsequent 24 hours. It is very likely to intensify further and move north north-westwards towards Gujarat and adjoining Pakistan coasts and reach near Gujarat coast around May 18 evening.Light to moderate rain with extremely heavy rain (over 20 cm) is likely over Lakshadweep on May 13 and 14; over Kerala on May 13; over ghat areas of Tamil Nadu and Karnataka on May 15. It is likely rain on May 13, 14, 15, 16 and 17 in all these places.In Konkan and Goa, light to moderate rainfall at many places with heavy rainfall at isolated places is very likely on May 15 and heavy to very heavy falls at a few places on May 16 and 17. In Gujarat, rainfall activity is very likely to commence from May 17 with significant increase during the subsequent 2 days and heavy to very heavy rainfall at a few places over Saurashtra and Kutch on May 18 and 19.Sea condition over southeast Arabian Sea and adjoining Lakshadweep - Maldives area and equatorial Indian Ocean is likely to be rough to very rough on May 13 and 14. Over east central Arabian Sea its likely to be very rough to high (wave height of 6-9 metres/ wind speed 34-47 knots) on May 15 and high to very high (wave height of 9-14 metres/wind speed of 38-63) on May 16 and over northeast Arabian Sea from May 18. Sea conditions will be rough to very rough over Comorin area and along and off Kerala coast on May 14 and 15, very rough to High over east central Arabian Sea along & off Karnataka coast on May 15 and Maharashtra – Goa coasts on May 15 and 16. It is very likely to be very rough to High over northeast Arabian Sea along and off south Gujarat coast from May 17 morning. Tidal wave of about 1 meter height above the astronomical tide is very likely to inundate low lying areas of Lakshadweep Islands on May 15 and 16.Fishermen out in the deep sea are advised to return to coast. Fishermen are advised not to venture into southeast Arabian Sea, Lakshadweep – Maldives areas from May 13, east central Arabian Sea along and off Karnataka coast from May 14, into east central Arabian Sea and along and off Maharashtra – Goa coasts from May 15 and into east central and adjoining northeast Arabian Sea along and off Gujarat coast from May 17.“Both ocean and atmospheric conditions are conducive for cyclone formation. The ocean temperature and heat content are warmer than normal. The SSTs are in the range of 30 to 31 degree C in the north Indian Ocean. That’s an anomaly of 1-2 degree C over some regions. Normally SSTs should be 28 to 30 degree C,” said Roxy Mathew Koll, a climate scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM), Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tauktae-likely-to-be-an-intense-cyclone-as-oceanic-conditions-favourable-warn-scientists-101620910970946.html
13-05-2021||India||Kerala CM dashes letter to Modi for 300 MT of oxygen in wake of cyclonic storm||The Kerala government on Thursday urged the Centre to immediately rush at least 300 MT oxygen from neighbouring storage points to augment the storage in hospitals in the wake of the impending cyclonic storm. In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a cyclonic storm warning forecasting heavy rain and winds in parts of the State on May 14 and May 15. It is anticipated that there may be disruptions in electricity supply to oxygen generation plants and filling stations. Noting that there can also be disruptions in road transport which would impede timely oxygen supply necessary to save precious lives, the chief minister urged the Prime Minister to rush at least 300 MT oxygen to the state from neighbouring storage points. He said the current oxygen generation capacity in Kerala is 212.34 MT per day and at present, the storage of oxygen in hospitals is only for less than 24 hours. "Based on scientific projections, the total daily oxygen requirement for medical purposes in Kerala could rapidly rise to 423.60 MT within the next three days", the letter said. The chief minister said presently, the state is witnessing a surge of the Covid-19 cases and the number of active cases aggregates to 4.19 lakh. He said in the second wave of the pandemic, the State is witnessing an increase in the number of patients who require critical care, including oxygen support. "As the state government will not be able to manage the oxygen demand without assistance from the Central government, it is requested that Kerala's daily oxygen allocation may be immediately enhanced to 450 MT," it said. The chief minister said the Kerala government is continuing to supply liquid medical oxygen to other States, even though the oxygen situation in the State is already precarious.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-cm-dashes-letter-to-modi-for-300-mt-of-oxygen-in-wake-of-cyclonic-storm-101620909590749.html
13-05-2021||India||EC defers MLC polls in Andhra, Telangana due to second wave of Covid||The Election Commission of India (EC) on Thursday postponed polls to nine legislative council seats in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana scheduled this month due to the surge in Covid-19 cases.In a statement, the EC said it reviewed the matter and decided that due to the outbreak of the second wave of Covid-19 in the country, it would be inappropriate to hold the election until the pandemic situation significantly improves and conditions become conducive to hold the polls.Also Read | ‘Election Commission has always been neutral and impartial’: CEC Sushil Chandra“The Commission will take a decision in the matter at [an] appropriate time in the future after taking inputs from the concerned states and assessing the pandemic situation from mandated authorities like National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) and State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA),” the statement said.It added the terms of three members of Andhra Pradesh and six that of Telangana state legislative councils would expire on May 31 and June 3. The elections to these seats will be held under the members of the legislative assembly quota. As per the Representation of the People Act, the elections have to be held before the expiry of the terms of the members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ecdefers-mlc-polls-in-andhra-telangana-due-to-second-wave-of-covid-101620909410949.html
13-05-2021||India||Delhi health minister appeals to Centre to import Covid vaccine, asks for formula to be shared with other manufacturers||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Thursday echoed his party leader and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal's concern of different states competing in the international market for Covid-19 vaccines and appealed to the central government to import vaccine doses from abroad at a national level. During the time of crisis, the governments need to act together, Jain added."Delhi Govt appeals to Central Govt to import vaccine doses from abroad at a national level rather than leaving states to fend for themselves in international markets. During this time of crisis, we need to act together, not individually," he said.Delhi Govt appeals to Central Govt to import vaccine doses from abroad at a national level rather than leaving states to fend for themselves in international markets. During this time of crisis, we need to act together, not individually.2/3Earlier in the day, Kejriwal questioned 'where is India' as several states floating separate tenders to procure Covid-19 vaccines from abroad. He said that Indian states are left to compete with each other in the international market for the vaccine and this portrays a bad image for India.The national capital, like other states, is facing an acute shortage of vaccine doses. Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA Atishi on Wednesday said that no vaccination centre in Delhi will be able to administer Covaxin to people in the age bracket of 18-44 years due to the non-availability of the stock.To increase the vaccine supply in the country, Satyendra Jain on Thursday suggested sharing the formula of Covishield - produced by Serum Institute of India (SII) - and Covaxin - manufactured by Bharat Biotech - with all the Indian manufacturers. Jain said, "this will facilitate mass production in order to vaccinate the citizens of India."Also read: More than 2 billion doses of Covid-19 vaccines to become available in India soonJain also claimed that both the manufacturers have earned a profit of about ₹16,000 crore each at the expense of the common man, as he said that the current prices are exorbitant and the price of each vaccine should be capped at ₹150 per dose."Price of each vaccine should be capped at ₹150/dose. The current prices are exorbitant. @SerumInstIndia @BharatBiotech are profiting with about ₹16000 crore each at the expense of the common man. The life-saving vaccine should be accessible by all strata of society," Jain tweeted.This comes after several states have announced global tenders for the procurement of Covid-19 vaccines. States that have opted for importing the essential shots include Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-health-minister-appeals-to-centre-to-import-covid-19-vaccine-asks-for-vaccine-formula-to-be-shared-with-other-manufacturers-101620903843481.html
13-05-2021||India||WHO-approved Covid-19 vaccines can come to India, more than 2 billion doses to become available soon: Govt||The Centre on Thursday reiterated that any vaccine which is approved by United States' Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the World Health Organization (WHO) can come to India. The announcement was made at a press conference by NITI Aayog member VK Paul, who also heads the national expert group on vaccines."Import license will be granted within 1-2 days. No import license is pending," Dr Paul said. Last month, the central government had fast-tracked approvals for Covid-19 vaccines cleared for use in the US, the UK, the European Union and Japan.As the world’s largest manufacturer of vaccines, India exported more than 65 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines under its “Vaccine Maitri” initiative but supplies have slowed to a trickle since March as domestic infection rates surged.Dr Paul said that the department of biotechnology, and other departments concerned, and the ministry of external affairs (MEA) have been in touch with vaccine manufacturers like Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson."They were officially asked if they'd like to send doses to or manufacture in India. The government told them that it will find partners and assist them. They said that they are working in their own way and they would talk of vaccine availability in Q3, in 2021," said Dr Paul."We are connected to them. I'm hopeful that they'll step forward to increase availability in India," the NITI Aayog member said.The government official gave an update about the milestone achieved by India. "Nearly 18 crore doses of #COVID19 vaccine have been administered in India. In the US, the number stands around 26 crores. So, India stand in the third position," said Dr Paul.He further said that 216 crore doses of vaccines will be manufactured in India between August and December. "There should be no doubt, vaccine will be available for all as we move forward," said Dr Paul.Many states have claimed shortage of Covid-19 vaccines and have either stalled or cut back on plans to vaccinate people in the age group of 18-44. Eleven states have so far opted for floating of global tenders to get Covid-19 vaccines.These states have asked the Centre to changes its vaccination policy and allow other manufacturers to make Covid-19 vaccine to meet the target of a populous country like India.India has so far been using Covishield - made by AstraZeneca - and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin for its nationwide inoculation drive. Dr Paul said on Thursday that Russia's Sputnik V - the third vaccine which was given emergency use approval by India's drugs regulator - will be available in the market from next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-than-2-billion-doses-of-covid-19-vaccines-to-become-available-in-india-soon-govt-101620907793376.html
13-05-2021||India||PM Modi to interact with DMs of 100 districts with high Covid-19 caseloads||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with district magistrates of 100 districts with high caseloads of COVID-19 infections in two meetings on May 18 and 20, government sources said on Thursday.While DMs of 46 districts from nine states will be part of the first meeting, those from 54 districts from 10 states will attend the second meeting, they said, adding that respective chief ministers will be present in these interactions.This will be the first such interaction that the prime minister will have with top district-level administrative officers on the COVID-19 situation.So far, he has held a number of meetings with chief ministers from across the country and also, in some cases, from high caseload states on the pandemic situation since its first outbreak in 2020.According to the latest data from the Union Health Ministry, just ten states account for over 72 per cent of new COVID-19 cases reported in a span of 24 hours and these include Maharashtra, Delhi, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Kerala, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal and Rajasthan. Also, just ten states account for 74.30 per cent of the new deaths.India added 3,62,727 new coronavirus infections in a day taking the COVID-19 tally of cases to 2,37,03,665, while the death toll rose to 2,58,317 with 4,120 daily fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-interact-with-dms-of-100-districts-with-high-covid-19-caseloads-101620907301297.html
13-05-2021||India||'Should we hang ourselves if vaccines are not available' asks Union min Gowda||Union Minister for Chemicals and Fertilisers D V Sadananda Gowda on Thursday sought to know whether people in the government should hang themselves for their failure to produce vaccines as was directed by the government. "The court has with good intention said everyone in the country should get vaccinated. I want to ask you, if the court says tomorrow that you have to give this much (of vaccine), if it has not been produced yet, should we hang ourselves?" Gowda told reporters here.Replying to queries on the shortage of vaccine, the Union Minister stressed on the plan of action of the government and said its decisions are not guided by any political gain or by any other reason. Gowda said the government has been doing its job sincerely and honestly during which time some shortcomings have surfaced. "Practically, certain things are beyond our control, can we manage them?," the Union Minister sought to know.He, however, clarified that the government has been doing its best to ensure that in a day or two, things improve and people get vaccinated. BJP national general secretary C T Ravi, who was present with Gowda, claimed that things would have been worse if arrangements had not been made well in time."If proper arrangements were not made well in advance then there would have been fatalities 10 times or 100 times more," Ravi said. He said oxygen supply has been increased from 300 metric tonnes to 1,500 tonnes due to systematic preparation. "But our preparations failed because of the unimaginable spread of coronavirus," Ravi told reporters.Regarding courts pulling up the government on the issue of coronavirus, Ravi said, "Judges are not all-knowing (Sarvajna). Whatever is available with us, based on that the technical advisory committee will recommend how much (vaccine) has to be distributed. Based on their report, we will take a decision."With the alarming rise in Covid cases in the State, which is reporting 40,000 to 50,000 cases daily, the demand for vaccines has grown manifold. According to the Karnataka government officials, the State has placed an order of three crore vaccines and the money has already been paid to the two vaccine manufacturers. However, only seven lakh doses have arrived in the State.The panicked citizens have been queuing up before the vaccination centres in the State for inoculation only to be turned down.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/should-we-hang-ourselves-if-vaccines-are-not-available-asks-union-min-gowda-101620905840591.html
13-05-2021||India||Goa struggles due to missteps in Covid control||Three weeks back, chief minister Pramod Sawant ruled out a lockdown in Goa even as the second Covid-19 wave was overwhelming the health care systems across the country. He argued the curbs will hurt the economy and insisted the state was better equipped to handle the pandemic than the rest of India before a curfew was imposed in the state on Sunday last.Goa has reported 52,455 Covid-19 cases, which have taken its tally to 127,639, and 881 deaths since Sawant made the comments. The infections and the fatalities over this period have been higher than those recorded during the first wave. Around 32,791 people, or about 2% of the state’s population, are currently battling the disease in the state while 1,874 have died of it so far.The arrangement made to tackle the surge have been found wanting. Goa’s health care infrastructure is struggling to cope as there is a shortage of doctors, nurses, and other health care staff. The supply of medical oxygen, a key intervention among Covid-19 patients many of whom suffer respiratory distress, has run low at the premier state-run Goa Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) for four straight nights, according to health minister Vishwajit Rane, and has been costing lives.Twenty-six patients being treated for Covid-19 at the hospital died between 2am and 6am on Tuesday, Rane said. He added they were facing a shortage of oxygen. “Yesterday [Monday] we required 1,200 cylinders of oxygen but we got only 400. Because of interrupted oxygen supply, I think somewhere between the hours 2am to 6am, there are a lot of deaths happening. Even today between 2 am to 6 am, there were around 26 deaths.”Also Read | 15 more patients die at Goa hospital; relatives blame disruption in oxygen supplyThe Bombay high court at Goa on Wednesday said the material placed before it establishes that patients were indeed suffering and even in some cases succumbing for want of oxygen.On May 2, the Goa Association of Resident Doctors highlighted the inadequate oxygen supply at various Covid wards. “The central oxygen flow delivers very low flow oxygen at times and that is inadequate to keep NIVS (Non-Invasive Ventilation) and ventilators working effectively. Also, the oxygen cylinders being used for patients get over in the middle of the night and it takes at least 2-3 hours for replacement cylinders to come and sometimes more than that and for this time period, the patients are kept without oxygen with saturations dropping to less than 60%,” the Association said in a letter to GMCH’s dean Shivanand Bandekar.The letter prompted the high court to intervene and forced the government to admit to a shortage of oxygen and logistics to make it available.Ashley Delaney, whose father-in-law is battling Covid-19 at GMCH, said every night the oxygen levels have been dropping. “It is patients relying on cylinders who suffer first as there is no one to swap the empty cylinders, especially during the late hours. The nurses and doctors are way too burdened to be able to do this.”Delaney said he has been raising the issue, but little action has followed, and many people have died. He added the experience has been numbing. Delaney said he has seen first-hand people dying as oxygen levels dropped. “Eight wards are dedicated to Covid-19 patients, and each has a capacity of 28 beds. Instead, they are dealing with as many as 70-80 patients in each ward,” Delaney said. “There are only six nurses and one or two doctors to handle 80 patients. If patients are crashing, they require at least six people. The other night, two patients were crashing at the same time and four were attending to one patient and the other had only two. Only one of them was able to make it,” he said.Rane set the alarm bells ringing when he said a high number of deaths were taking place between 2am and 6am, the hours when the oxygen levels also dip.His comments came even as the government had been in denial about the shortage of oxygen.“There is no shortage of oxygen. Instead, we have a shortage of manpower and people to carry the cylinders to ensure that patients have full cylinders at all times. If the cylinders are not in the place...we might as well say there is no oxygen,” Sawant said.A person aware of the matter said the hospital’s general ward does not have a fixed oxygen pipeline. “...that means someone (a technical person) has to keep monitoring the oxygen cylinder gauges etc. Flowmeters have to be adjusted by doctors/nurses depending on the saturation levels. The hospital is supposed to understand the consumption and keep at two times buffer stock, so whenever they get empty, the stock is replenished and this has to go on,” the person said, requesting anonymity.Also Read | Goa’s Dabolim airport to remain closed at night; undergoes maintenanceRane acknowledged the GMCH is overburdened. “The consumption (of oxygen) is unprecedented. We are also facing a shortage,” said Rane, countering Sawant’s claim that there was no shortage.Bandekar conceded before the high court that there indeed was a shortage. “We have faced many interruptions in the supply of central oxygen on a daily basis, leading to near-critical fall in the oxygen saturation of patients in the intensive care units. The supply of cylinder oxygen that is used for mild/moderate patients has also been deficient, and erratic, leading to the needy patients not getting it continuously,” Bandekar told the court on Wednesday.“The death following such hypoxemia (low levels of oxygen in the blood) and organ hypoxia may be immediate, or most of the time after some period of time. Adequate and uninterrupted supply of oxygen is of vital importance in managing (Covid-related pneumonia).”The court ordered the government to ensure an adequate supply of oxygen, which had run low for four nights, “at least for tonight (Wednesday)”.But the oxygen again ran low once and prompted late-night SOS calls on Wednesday night.A police team was be called and constables lugged cylinders up and down the floors to ensure that the empty ones were replaced.Ruling Bharatiya Janata Party lawmaker Atanasio Monserrate has been among those who have hit out at the government over its Covid mismanagement.“The other day, a patient, who had a bed, was taken down and the bed was given to someone else just because that person hailed from Valpoi (Rane’s constituency). You have to be inhuman to be doing something like this. He is the health minister of the whole of Goa, not just of Valpoi,” he said.Rane refused to comment on Monserrate’s allegations.Also Read | 26 deaths at Goa Medical College in 4 hours. Health minister pushes for HC probePrivate hospitals have also been facing the oxygen crunch. “Ours is a private hospital, when I call the supplier, he says the collector has said not to give (oxygen) to private hospitals. We have to keep begging and somehow we manage to get sufficient quantity,” said a manager at a private hospital, requesting anonymity.Experts said Goa ignored the warning signs as the positivity rate began rising in early April when it crossed 10% for the first time in over six months. The government did not increase testing or initiate any kind of trace and track mechanism to ensure that the virus does not spread further.“The government has been caught completely clueless in handling the pandemic. Rather than have the politicians take decisions, they should have set up a committee of experts to chalk out a strategy. Everyone knew that the second wave was coming and that it would be more lethal than the first,” said Dr Jorson Fernandes. “Instead, the government did nothing. There was no move to increase the capacity of the beds to ensure that there are at least 50% more beds than were required during the first wave, no move to set up isolation centres to ensure that people do not transmit the disease among their families. Now there are instances where entire families are positive.”Fernandes said the first thing that the government should have done was to make Covid negative certificates mandatory on arrival in the state. “The state has had to go for a full lockdown, which could have been avoided if it had closely monitored the cases and imposed specific restrictions on certain activities well in advance to ensure that you break the chain even without a lockdown.”Goa now has the highest positivity rate in the country. It had a weekly average positivity rate of close to 50% in early May.Another doctor said the biggest mistake the government made was to take the issue of vaccination very casually. “As soon as there were signs that the second wave was impending, they should have speeded up the vaccination to ensure that everyone is vaccinated in a very quick time,” said the doctor, who did not wish to be named. He said the government was to be blamed, but people too should not be absolved.Experts pointed out the other mistake was keeping Goa open to tourists until two weeks back. Even as the number of tourists arriving in the state fell drastically as Covid-19 cases surged across the country, there were no restrictions on entry into the state.The Travel and Tourism Association of Goa, which opposed any kind of restrictions and on March 19 said making testing mandatory for tourists was not a solution, relented only on May 7 and asked the government to impose a lockdown.State minister Michael Lobo on March 31 said restrictions on tourists would kill the industry. As the cases surged, Lobo was among those who called for a state-wide lockdown.And it took a high court order for the government to make testing for those entering the state mandatory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-struggles-due-to-missteps-in-covid-control-101620906710700.html
13-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: MK Stalin urges PM Modi to remove GST on Covid-19 vaccines and all the latest news||Stalin writes to PM Modi, asks GST to be removed on Covid-19 vaccinesTamil Nadu chief minister and DMK leader MK Stalin wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging him to remove the Goods and Service Tax (GST) on Covid-19 vaccines and other medicines used to treat the infection which are procured by state governments. Read MoreUP village in panic as Covid-19 cases surge in rural areasThe lanes of Mauaima village in Uttar Pradesh’s Prayagraj, which are normally abuzz with activities, wore a deserted look. Read More15 more patients die at Goa hospital; relatives blame disruption in oxygen supplyTwo days after 26 patients lost their lives at Goa’s premier government-run hospital due to lack of oxygen between 2am and 6am, the Pramod Sawant government on Thursday told the Bombay high court that 15 more patients died on Thursday morning. Read More'Look at the way he reacted when he came on to the bench': Haddin reveals Warner's reaction to shock axing in IPLDavid Warner's removal as captain of the Sunrisers Hyderabad during the IPL 2021 came as a bit of a shock for everyone. Read MoreYasmine Al Massri defends Priyanka Chopra as Twitter user questions her silence on Israel-Palestine crisisYasmine Al Massri defended her friend, actor Priyanka Chopra on Twitter. The Quantico actor replied to a social media user questioning Priyanka's silence over the ongoing Israel-Palestine crisis. Read MoreThis 4.5-billion-year-old asteroid may hold the answer to how the Earth came into being, Nasa shares postIf different celestial bodies present in the space and our solar system spark your interest, then this recent share by Nasa may leave you fascinated. Read MorePatthar Wargi: Hina Khan looks stunning in BTS pictures from latest B Praak songHina Khan has been keeping away from social media since her father's demise, but the actor made a brief comeback to interact with fans and also share a teaser of her upcoming music video Patthar Wargi. Read More‘Around 12 lakh waiting for 2nd Covid vaccine dose in Maharashtra’: Nawab MalikMaharashtra Cabinet minister Nawab Malik slammed the Central government over Covid-19 vaccine shortage in the state. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-mk-stalin-urges-pm-modi-to-remove-gst-on-covid-19-vaccines-and-all-the-latest-news-101620903564756.html
13-05-2021||India||Tripura starts Covid-19 vaccination of 18-44 yr age group||Tripura started third phase of Covid-19 vaccination which includes 18-44 year age group from Thursday after receiving first consignment of over 15,000 doses of Covaxin, said officials. “ We received total 15,150 Covaxin doses recently. As per chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb’s wish, priority group will include rickshaw pullers, autorickshaw drivers, and employees of the high court,” said law minister Ratan Lal Nath. Also Read | Tripura govt forms panel to probe attack on ex-CM Manik SarkarVaccination would be done at six session sites in West district with the first session held at MBB airport, according to west district chief medical officer. Over 1.4million people were administered both first and second doses of vaccine in the state, as per the latest report. In the last 24 hours, the state has reported 416 fresh cases and two deaths. Three wards of Agartala Municipal Corporation have been declared containment zone from May 13 to May 22. Nearly 3,500 poor families living in the containment zone would be provided free food packets containing rice, pulses, oil, potatoes, onions, soyabean, milk and salt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-starts-covid-19-vaccination-of-18-44-yr-age-group-101620904490780.html
13-05-2021||India||Russia's Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine to be available in market from early next week: Govt||The Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) announced on Thursday that Sputnik V, the vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) developed by Russia's Gamaleya National Center, will be available in markets across the country from early next week.Also Read | 150,000 doses of Russian Sputnik V vaccine on way to HyderabadMaking the announcement at the health ministry's press briefing on the Covid-19 situation in the country, Dr VK Paul, member, NITI Aayog, further said the local production of Sputnik V, often called the world's first vaccine against the viral disease, will begin in July. Hyderabad-based Dr. Reddy's Laboratories will manufacture the vaccine in India.Sputnik V was given emergency use authorisation (EUA) by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) in April, amid an alarming rise in the country's fresh Covid-19 infections. It will be the third vaccine, shots of which will be administered in India. The other two shots are Covishield and Covaxin. Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) is manufacturing the Oxford University-AstraZeneca shot as "Covishield" while Bharat Biotech International Limited, also located in Hyderabad, has developed Covaxin.Also Read | India, Russia together against Covid-19, says Russian envoy as Sputnik V arrivesThe Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine was first approved in Russia on August 11 last year. With an efficacy of 91.6%, as published in the Lancet Medical Journal, the vaccine has been cleared and approved for mass use in more than 50 countries. The Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) has signed a deal to produce 750 million doses of Sputnik V in India.Also Read | Sputnik V, ‘world's first' Covid-19 vaccine, gets experts' nod in India. All you need to knowIndia’s vaccination drive against Covid-19 began on January 16, two weeks after the DCGI announced clearance for both Covishield and Covaxin. Currently, the third phase of the nationwide vaccination drive is underway as every citizen above the age of 18 became eligible for a jab starting May 1. According to the health ministry’s dashboard on Thursday morning, 177,214,256 vaccine doses have been administered across the country thus far, including 1,894,991 in the preceding 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/russias-sputnik-v-covid-19-vaccine-to-be-available-in-market-from-early-next-week-govt-101620904312402.html
13-05-2021||India||Centre accepts panel's recommendation to increase gap between Covishield doses||The Centre on Thursday approved the gap between the first dose and the second dose of a Covid-19 vaccine Covishield based on the recommendation of expert panel. The National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) had recommended that the gap between the two doses of Covishield can be further extended to 12 to 16 weeks.The NTAGI recommendation was accepted by the Union health ministry on Thursday.Also Watch: Top doctor says second jab acting more like booster doseNo such changes were recommend in the intervals of Bharat Biotech's Covaxin. Experts say that Covaxin has been developed using a "dead virus, which is incapable of infecting people but still able to instruct the immune system to mount a defensive action against an infection". There is no data on whether the effectiveness increases if the gap is widened as during the trial.Also Read: What experts recommend about second dose of Covid vaccineThis is the third increase in interval for Covishield. When India started the vaccination drive in January, the recommended gap was four to six weeks. In March, the gap period was revised and extended to four to eight weeks.A study published in medical journal The Lancet on February 19 claimed a 26.2 per cent increase - from 55.1 per cent to 81.3 per cent - if doses were spaced 12 or more weeks apart.NTAGI comprises of government representatives from the Department of Women and Child Development, internal finance division in Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Department of Biotechnology, Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) along with health experts.India started the world's largest vaccination drive on January 16 this year in a phased manner with healthcare workers (HCWs) getting inoculated first. The vaccination of frontline workers (FLWs) started from February 2.Also Read: Defer vaccination for 6 months after recovery from Covid-19, says govt panelThe next phase of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from March 1 for those over 60 years of age and for people aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions. India launched vaccination for all people aged more than 45 from April 1.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-accepts-panel-s-recommendation-to-increase-gap-between-covishield-doses-101620904211611.html
13-05-2021||India||Four of kin killed in truck-car collision in Andhra’s East Godavari district||Four people, including a five-month-old infant, died on the spot and five others sustained injuries, when a container truck rammed into the car in which they were travelling in Andhra Pradesh’s East Godavari district in the early hours of Thursday, the police said. According to Peddapuram sub-inspector of police A Balaji, the incident happened in front of the Ruchi Soya Factory on the outskirts of Peddapuram town on the Kakinada-Samalkot highway. He said the family of nine was travelling in a sports utility vehicle from Peddavalasa village to Rajahmundry to attend a house-warming ceremony. “As the car was crossing the industrial area on the outskirts of Peddapuram town, a speeding container truck coming from the opposite direction rammed into the SUV. Four people including a five-month-old baby, a woman and two men died on the spot,” Balaji said. Five others, including the person driving the car, were injured. The locals, who immediately informed the police, rescued the injured who were trapped inside the vehicle. “Three of them were taken to Peddapuram area hospital and two others were taken to the Kakinada government hospital,” the SI said. The deceased were identified as: Vanamadi Eshwar Rao (36), Vanamadi Annapurna (33), Aradadi Swamy (55) and a five-month-old baby. Five others - Aradadi Baby, Matha Ramalaxmi, J C Kumar, Matha Krishna and Matha Laxmi, survived the accident and are being treated at the Kakinada government hospital. The Peddapuram police, who arrested the truck driver, registered a case under sections 337 and 304 (A) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). An investigation is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-of-kin-killed-in-truck-car-collision-in-andhra-s-east-godavari-district-101620903890535.html
13-05-2021||India||India receives 30 oxygen concentrators, 2 ventilators from Italy||Amid ongoing Covid-19 crisis, India on Thursday received 30 oxygen concentrators and two ventilators from Italy, informed Ministry of External Affairs Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi.Thanking the European Union partner for their thoughtful support, Bagchi tweeted, "Committed to further consolidating our friendly ties. Consignment of 30 oxygen concentrators, 2 ventilators, and other medical equipment arrives from Italy. Thank our EU partner for this support."🇮🇳🇮🇹Committed to further consolidating our friendly ties. Consignment of 30 oxygen concentrators, 2 ventilators and other medical equipment arrives from Italy. Thank our EU partner 🇮🇹 for this support. pic.twitter.com/uwPOdCTe2jSeveral countries stood in solidarity with India as the country fights the deadly virus that took many lives.Global support in the form of PPE kits, oxygen concentrators, oxygen cylinders, medicines and other raw materials for the production of vaccines are pouring in to help India mitigate such a massive Covid-19 surge.As of today India recorded 3,62,727 new Covid-19 cases, 3,52,181 discharges and 4,120 deaths. The total positive cases in the country so far stand at 2,37,03,665. This includes 1,97,34,823 recoveries and 2,58,317 reported deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-receives-30-oxygen-concentrators-2-ventilators-from-italy-101620902016341.html
13-05-2021||India||India has administered over 177mn Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered over 177 million coronavirus vaccine doses by Wednesday, May 12. Meanwhile, Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin got the drug regulator’s approval for clinical trials on children between 2 and 18 years of age even as Delhi said it had to shut over a 100 vaccination centres for want of Covaxin. Meanwhile, by Wednesday 8pm, 177,085,371 vaccine doses had been given in India. This includes 9,598,626 healthcare workers who have had their first dose and 6,568,343 who have got their second dose as well. As many as 14,226,185 frontline workers have had their first dose while 8,025,849 have got their second dose too.In the 45-59-year age group, 56,214,942 people have got their first dose and another 8,131,218 have had their second dose as well. In the 60+ category, 54,088,334 people have been administered their first dose while 16,764,979 have had their second dose as well.Also Read | Maharashtra extends Covid-19 lockdown till June 1, mandates negative RT-PCRIn the newly added category of 18-44 year age group, 417,321 beneficiaries received their first dose of Covid vaccine on Wednesday and cumulatively, 3,466,895 of this age group have been vaccinated across 30 states and Union Territories.As many as 1,772,261 vaccine doses were given by the evening. Of this, 938,933 beneficiaries were vaccinated with the first dose and 833,328 beneficiaries received their second dose as well.Meanwhile, states have begun floating global tenders to procure vaccines for the 18-44 age group. However, there could be a technical issue in inoculating people of this age group as states can only use vaccines approved by the Union government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-over-177mn-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101620902390876.html
13-05-2021||India||15 more patients die at Goa hospital; relatives blame disruption in oxygen supply||Two days after 26 patients lost their lives at Goa’s premier government-run hospital due to lack of oxygen between 2am and 6am, the Pramod Sawant government on Thursday told the Bombay high court that 15 more patients died on Thursday morning also but tried to convince the court that all these deaths could not be attributed to the disruption in oxygen supply.The judges, who had reprimanded the state government for not ensuring steady oxygen supply just a day earlier, however, didn’t buy the hospital’s defence on Thursday.“Statistics show that the deaths are happening due to a lack of oxygen. Do not try to deny the fact,” the high court’s Goa bench of justices MS Sonak and Nitin Jambre told the state’s top law officer, advocate general Devidas Pangam.“We are aware that the issue is not sorted out yet,” the bench said.Also Read: As Goa battles Covid storm, nobody steering the ship to safetyThe 15 deaths at the Goa Medical College and Hospital come just two days after 26 people lost their lives due to shortage of oxygen at the same hospital, prompting the judges to order the Pramod Sawant government to drop everything and ensure that there are no deaths “at least one night”.At a high court’s hearing on Thursday morning, the Goa Medical College acknowledged that 15 more deaths had taken place between 2am and 6am but insisted that not all of them died because of disruption in oxygen supply as was being claimed by the petitioners.Shruti Chaturvedi, who has set up the Goa Covid network of volunteers and is one of the petitioners, had earlier tweeted news about the 15 deaths.“Despite raising SOSes, police and health dept officials reaching GMC in the wee hours of the night after the alarm of oxygen fluctuations in the central pipeline was raised, 15 people died last night. Again.”Relatives of patients did raise an alarm after the oxygen pressure began to drop overnight and health department officials and the police reached the hospital to help. But it was several hours before anyone was able to fix the problem and ensure a steady supply of oxygen.The medical college’s dean Dr Shivanand Bandekar acknowledged that the oxygen pressure had dropped during the night but claimed that not all the deaths could be attributed to it.He said critical patients would be shifted out of wards that are receiving oxygen at low pressure to a newly-commissioned block where the oxygen supply is steady. The deaths at the state-run hospital due to oxygen supply have come as a major embarrassment to the Pramod Sawant government, which has also been roundly criticised by opposition parties, civil society groups and at least one ruling party MLA for not doing enough.On Wednesday, the high court also reminded the state government that it was its duty to ensure that people didn’t die due to its inability to supply oxygen. “This duty can neither be avoided by pleading helplessness nor by putting forth logistical difficulties in sourcing and supplying oxygen,” the high court said.On Wednesday, the Goa medical college dean had spoken about how disruption in oxygen supply could claim lives and lead to organ failure, leading to deaths long after the oxygen supply is restored.“Reduced oxygen saturation lasting for a significant duration causes tissue hypoxia and irreversible tissue damage. This is worse in the presence of comorbidities and old age. The death following such hypoxemia and organ hypoxia may be immediate, or most of the time after some period of time,” he said on Wednesday.Relatives of patients said the oxygen pressure had been running low for several days. One of them, Christine Fernandes said it was scary. She got her sister an extra cylinder in case the hospital runs out of oxygen again.“My sister Laura Fernandes is admitted in GMC hospital, Goa with severe pneumonia. She was admitted on May 7. She is fighting for her life, while her 2 young kids are waiting for their mother to come home. The first few nights at the hospital were frightening as the oxygen ran low at night and patients were dying during this time,” Fernandes told Hindustan Times.. “We got a cylinder (from a private supplier) on May 11 (after 26 patients died due to lack of oxygen), but no doctor was willing to help fix it. My brother-in-law went home on the 12th morning, got his tools and fixed the cylinder all by himself,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/15-more-patients-die-at-goa-hospital-relatives-blame-disruption-in-oxygen-supply-101620902150435.html
13-05-2021||India||Kerala church retreat: Two more priests die, 5 others critical||Two more priests who had attended the five-day annual retreat event, organised in April by the Church of South India (CSI) in violation of Covid containment guidelines, died on Wednesday. The condition of five other priests was said to be critical, said a group of reformist members of the church. They also claimed that the deaths were caused by Covid-19, but an official confirmation was not available.Father C Binokumar (39) and Father Y Devaprasad (59) died at CSI Medical College Hospital in Karakonam, where five of their colleagues were currently on ventilator support.Two priests died due to Covid-19 in May first week and several others tested positive, blowing the lid off what was described as a “super spreader” event, organised at Munnar, a hill station in Kerala’s Idukki district, between April 13 and 17.The CSI retreat is the latest religious event to hit the headlines for recklessness during the pandemic. Last year, at the beginning of the first wave, a congregation of the Tablighi Jamaat in New Delhi was blamed for causing a spike in cases. Similarly, last month’s congregation at Haridwar Kumbh Mela is also believed to have contributed to the rapid spread of the second wave.On May 5, police booked a case against 400-odd priests including CSI’s South Kerala Diocese Bishop, Father Dharmaraj Rasalam, for allegedly flouting Covid-19 protocols by organising the religious retreat without permission.More controversy followed with a group within the church alleging a section of priests was forced to attend the retreat. They also alleged that the priests, who got infected at the event, were discretely shifted to a medical college run by the church along the Kerala-Tamil Nadu border in an attempt to hush up the matter.Later, a case was registered under Section 269 of the IPC (unlawfully or negligently aiding in spreading an infection dangerous to life) and Kerala Epidemic Diseases Control Act after a senior revenue official found that approximately 450 persons, majority of them priests, attended the event flouting pandemic norms. Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan termed the incident “unfortunate.”However, the church maintains that all precautions were taken at the event and only 28 priests tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-church-retreat-two-more-priests-die-5-others-critical-101620901970888.html
13-05-2021||India||Stalin writes to PM Modi, asks GST to be removed on Covid-19 vaccines||Tamil Nadu chief minister and DMK leader MK Stalin wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging him to remove the Goods and Service Tax (GST) on Covid-19 vaccines and other medicines used to treat the infection which are procured by state governments. He said that the this move can be put in place for certain period after consulting with the GST Council since state governments are themselves procuring these things.Stalin also urged PM Modi for quick disbursal of pending GST compensation, rice subsidy and hiking Tamil Nadu's borrowing limits from 3% of the State Gross Domestic Product (SGDP) to 4%.His letter to PM Modi came a day after the Congress party, which fought Tamil Nadu assembly polls along with the DMK, accused the government of seeing an opportunity in crisis by imposing GST on Covid vaccines and medicines. The party claimed that the Centre has collected over ₹6,000 crore from such taxes."The government should not miss the last bus and should act now. Have a vaccine policy in which all Indians will be vaccinated in the next six months, then only we can defeat coronavirus," Congress spokesperson Gaurav Vallabh said.Meanwhile, West Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra on Wednesday wrote to his counterpart at the Centre, Nirmala Sitharaman, urging her to convene a virtual meeting of the GST Council to discuss about the "alarming" shortfall in terms of compensation to states."The GST Council was mandated to meet once in every quarter. Unfortunately, that has been violated twice over, by not calling a meeting for two consecutive quarters - not even virtually," Mitra said in a letter to Sitharaman"This has undermined a federalist institution, where all states are represented irrespective of political parties, regions or sizes of population, along with the GoI, I fear that not holding meetings regularly may also lead to a trust deficit," he further said.Mitra also said a discussion on the shortfall expected in the compensation to states is urgently needed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stalin-writes-to-pm-modi-asks-gst-to-be-removed-on-covid-19-vaccines-101620901269571.html
13-05-2021||India||PM Modi to release 8th instalment of financial benefit under PM-KISAN tomorrow||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will release the 8th instalment of financial benefit under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) scheme on Friday, May 14."Tomorrow is a very important day for the crores of farmers in the country. I will get the privilege of releasing the 8th instalment of Prime Minister Kisan Samman Nidhi through video conferencing at 11 am. On this occasion, I will also communicate with my farmer brothers and sisters," Prime Minister informed in a tweet.देश के करोड़ों अन्नदाताओं के लिए कल का दिन बेहद महत्वपूर्ण है। सुबह 11 बजे वीडियो कॉन्फ्रेंसिंग के जरिए प्रधानमंत्री किसान सम्मान निधि की 8वीं किस्त जारी करने का सौभाग्य प्राप्त होगा। इस अवसर पर अपने किसान भाई-बहनों के साथ संवाद भी करूंगा।https://t.co/QKUL2SFO7eAccording to Prime Minister's Office (PMO), "This will enable the transfer of more than Rs. 19,000 crores to more than 9.5 crores beneficiary farmer families. Prime Minister will also interact with farmer beneficiaries during the event. Union Agriculture Minister will also be present on the occasion."Notably, under the PM-KISAN scheme, a financial benefit of ₹6000 per year is provided to the eligible beneficiary farmer families, payable in three equal 4-monthly instalments of ₹2000 each.The fund is transferred directly to the bank accounts of the beneficiaries. As per the PMO, in this scheme, Samman Rashi of over ₹1.15 lakh crores has been transferred to farmer families so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-release-8th-instalment-of-financial-benefit-under-pm-kisan-tomorrow-101620900427523.html
13-05-2021||India||West Bengal governor vows to uphold constitution as he visits Cooch Behar, hit by post-poll violence||West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankar on Thursday reached areas marred by post-poll violence, Hindustan Times' sister publication Livehindustan reported. He is on a visit to Cooch Behar district where violence took place in Sitalkuchi during fourth phase of assembly election on April 10.After reaching Cooch Behar, Dhankar said that his duty is to uphold the Constitution, and he will work towards it, according to Livehindustan. The governor will interact with victims of post-poll violence in Cooch Behar.He will also go to Assam on May 14, where Dhankar will go to Ranpagli and Srirampur camps, a statement from the Raj Bhavan said on Wednesday.On Wednesday, chief minister Mamata Banerjee accused the governor of violating norms and planning to visit Cooch Behar district where four villagers were killed in firing by Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel at Sitalkuchi.Banerjee, in a letter to Dhankhar, said: "I find from social media that you are unilaterally proceeding to Cooch Behar district on May 13 and, sadly, I find that to be violative of the long-standing norms as evolved over several decades. I, therefore, would expect you to kindly follow the well-established norms of protocol and desist from abrupt decisions with regards to field visits."Dhankar responded to the chief minister, asking her to uphold constitutional commitments, adding that it is time to address issues being faced by people in deep distress."We both, being constitutional functionaries, are subject to the constitution. I am sure you will at least concede supremacy of the constitution, that by the oath you are ordained to follow. Revisit your stance and commit to the constitution that by the oath you are obligated to uphold and follow. This is time to address issues being faced by people in deep distress," the West Bengal governor said in his letter to Banerjee.On May 7, a four-member team deputed by the Ministry of Home Affairs had visited the Diamond Harbour area of West Bengal's South 24 Parganas district to assess the ground situation after the violence following the results of the assembly elections on May 2.A five-member Constitution Bench of the Calcutta High Court had also ordered the West Bengal Home Secretary to file a report mentioning the places where the violence occurred and the steps taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/west-bengal-governor-vows-to-uphold-constitution-as-he-visit-cooch-behar-101620900217652.html
13-05-2021||India||Child trafficking suspected behind pleas for adoption of Covid ‘orphans’||Social media posts appealing for adoption of kids allegedly orphaned during the Covid-19 pandemic may be a trick played out by child trafficking gangs that generally get activated during such calamities, warned UP police officials and child rights activists. The authorities have not only launched a probe into such posts but also begun gathering data on children actually orphaned by the pandemic.Multiple messages portraying tragic stories of infants, allegedly left abandoned after the death of their parents due to Covid-19, have been doing the rounds on social media platforms.One such message in which a person was offering kids for adoption circumventing the legal process alerted a group of child activists in Lucknow. The message read: “If anyone wishes to adopt a girl, please feel free to contact. One girl is 3 days old and another is six months old, and they have lost their parents recently due to Covid. Please help these kids get a new life.”Sangeeta Sharma, a child rights activist and a member of Child Line, said such messages were in circulation and requested her peers to report them to Child Line.“I called up one of the contact numbers mentioned in one of the similar messages and found that a man on the other end was promising a girl child for adoption without verifying her identity,” she said.Sharma said she reported the matter to the Lucknow police and requested cops to trace the person who she feared could possibly be involved in child trafficking and illegal child adoption.Lucknow commissioner of police DK Thakur confirmed that a team had been deployed to inquire into the case and other similar posts after being alerted by Child Line activists.Sharma feared many orphaned children were at risk of falling prey to human traffickers or illegal adoption rackets, looking to make a quick buck during the present Covid crisis.The state’s department of women and child development has also taken cognizance of such messages and has written to all district magistrates across UP to prepare a list of children below 18 years of age who have lost their parents to Covid. The list has to be submitted by May 15 to the director (women welfare) and the State Commission for Protection of Child Rights to facilitate immediate assistance to them, said a senior government official.In a similar exercise, the director of the department of women and child development Manoj Rai has asked officials to get details of orphaned children from Covid hospitals in the state. The record will be given to child welfare committees."We have decided to lend a helping hand to the affected children by providing them financial assistance, even if there are more than two in one family," Rai said. Another child rights activist Ajit Kushwaha said there were instances of children losing their parents to the deadly virus, making them vulnerable to human traffickers. "A similar thing happened during the Nepal earthquake when a large number of such gangs became active. I think strict government intervention is required to keep such gangs at bay,” Kushwaha said.Another child rights activist, Sumar Rawat, too said there was a dire need of a system to keep a check on illegal adoptions. She said the government should form dedicated committees to keep an eye on such activities or assign the task to the existing ‘nigrani samitis’.While a clear and present threat of child trafficking and illegal adoption rackets coming into play during the pandemic exists, several genuine tragedies have come to the attention of child rights activists, who have been helping them out.For instance, a 16-year-old girl in Lucknow’s Alambagh lost her parents, younger brother and grandmother in 10 days between April 22 and May 2 to the pandemic, while her elder brother was yet to recover from Covid infection, activist Sangeeta Sharma points out. The girl was left abandoned after the tragedy and was later shifted to her relative’s place, she added.In another case, three infants were found in the past one week after being abandoned by two families in Hardoi and Barabanki. The two infants in Hardoi were handed over to Child Line. They have been kept at Bal Grih on Prag Narain road. The other infant was admitted to the district hospital. The child was found in the bushes on a roadside in Barabanki and was badly injured after apparently being attacked by stray animals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/child-trafficking-suspected-behind-pleas-for-adoption-of-covid-orphans-101620898370713.html
13-05-2021||India||Bhubaneswar airport to receive 4,020 oxygen cylinders from foreign nations in one week||The Bhubaneswar airport is going to receive 4,020 seamless oxygen cylinders from foreign countries through various flights within a week, the Airports Authority of India (AAI) said on Thursday.The airport has handled transportation of 156 oxygen tankers, 536 oxygen concentrators and 140 oxygen cylinders between April 23 and May 11, the AAI said in a statement.These items were transported by the Indian Air Force (IAF), it said."Transportation of 3,500 pieces of 10-litre seamless cylinders and 1,520 pieces of 46.7 litre seamless cylinders are in pipeline and the consignment is expected within a week from foreign countries," the AAI stated.The AAI owns and manages more than 100 airports, including the Bhubaneswar airport, across the country.India has been badly hit by the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic and hospitals in several states are reeling under a shortage of oxygen, health workers, vaccines, and drugs.With 3,62,727 new coronavirus cases in a day, the country's Covid-19 tally rose to 2,37,03,665, while the death toll reached 2,58,317 after 4,120 more fatalities were reported, according to the Union Health Ministry’s data updated on Thursday.The active cases have increased to 37,10,525 comprising 15.65% of the total infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhubaneswar-airport-to-receive-4-020-oxygen-cylinders-from-foreign-nations-in-one-week-101620898052679.html
13-05-2021||India||ICMR Covid-19 task force to meet on Friday for review on ‘inappropriate use’ of plasma therapy||The Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) National task force on Covid-19 is scheduled to meet on Friday to decide on the inappropriate use of convalescent plasma therapy in the treatment of ailing Covid-19 patients, news agency ANI reported quoting ICMR sources.This meeting comes against the backdrop of clinicians and scientists in the country writing to the government's principal scientific advisor K Vijay Raghavan urging caution against the "irrational and non-scientific use" of convalescent plasma in treating Covid-19 patients in India."We are writing to you as concerned clinicians, public health professionals and scientists from India about the irrational and non-scientific use of convalescent plasma for Covid-19 in the country," a letter written by vaccinologist Gagandeep Kang and surgeon Pramesh C S among others said.Concerns were raised after the Union health ministry issued a revised 'Clinical Guidance for Management of Adult Covid-19 Patients' on April 22, allowing the ‘off-label’ use of convalescent plasma to treat patients of Covid-19 afflicted with moderate symptoms, within 7 days of the onset of the disease.Citing an ICMR-PLACID trial, the world’s first randomised control trial on the use of convalescent plasma conducted in 39 public and private hospitals across the nation, the letter also alleged that the current guidelines on plasma therapy are not based on existing evidence."The current research evidence unanimously indicates that there is no benefit offered by convalescent plasma for treatment of Covid-19. However, it continues to be prescribed rampantly in hospitals across India,” the letter said.ICMR had constituted a national task force headed by the director of All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS) Dr Randeep Guleria. The task force is responsible for creating treatment protocols, identifying research priorities, and reviewing existing evidence on global strategies to tackle Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-covid-19-task-force-to-meet-on-friday-for-review-on-inappropriate-use-of-plasma-therapy-101620897145731.html
13-05-2021||India||10 states account for over 72 per cent of new Covid-19 cases||Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh are among 10 states that account for 72.42 per cent of the 3,62,727 new cases in the country in a span of 24 hours, the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday.Kerala, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal and Rajasthan are the other states in the list of 10.Maharashtra reported the highest daily new cases at 46,781. It is followed by Kerala with 43,529 while Karnataka reported 39,998 new cases.India's total active caseload has increased to 37,10,525 and now comprises 15.65 per cent of the country's total infections.A net increase of 6,426 cases has been recorded in the active caseload in a day.Karnataka, Maharashtra, Kerala, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Gujarat, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Haryana cumulatively account for 79.67 per cent of India's total active cases.The National Mortality Rate currently stands at 1.09 per cent, the ministry said, adding that 4,120 deaths were reported in a span of 24 hours.Ten states also account for 74.30 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (816). Karnataka follows with 516 daily deaths.India's cumulative recoveries stand at 1,97,34,823 with 3,52,181 recoveries being registered in a span of 24 hours.Ten states account for 72.90 per cent of the new recoveries.The ministry also said that the cumulative number of COVID-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has exceeded 17.72 crore.A total of 17,72,14,256 vaccine doses have been administered through 25,70,537 sessions, according to the provisional report till 7 am.These include 96,00,420 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have taken the first dose and 65,70,062 HCWs who have taken the second dose, 1,42,34,793 FLWs who have received the first dose and 80,30,007 FLWs have taken the second dose and 34,80,618 beneficiaries in 18-45 age group have taken received the first dose.Besides, 5,62,43,308 and 81,58,535  beneficiaries aged 45 to 60 have been administered the first and second dose respectively, while 5,40,99,241 and 1,67,97,272 beneficiaries more than 60 years old have taken the first and second dose respectively.Maharashtra, Rajasthan,Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Kerala and Andhra Pradesh account for 66.73 per cent of the cumulative doses given so far in the country, the ministry said.It stated 4,31,285 beneficiaries in the age group of 18-44 years received their first dose of COVID vaccine in the last 24 hours and cumulatively 34,80,618 across 30 states and UTs since the start of phase-3 of vaccination drive. Nearly 19 lakh vaccination doses were administered in a span of 24 hours.As on Day-117 of the vaccination drive (May 12), 18,94,991 vaccine doses were given. Across 17,684 sessions, 9,98,409 beneficiaries were vaccinated for the first dose and 8,96,582 beneficiaries received their second dose of vaccine.The ministry further said that the Centre is clearing and apportioning global aid to strengthen tertiary medical care across States and UTs for COVID management. Cumulatively, 9,284 oxygen concentrators; 7,033 oxygen cylinders; 19 oxygen generation plants; 5,933 ventilators/Bi PAP and over 3.44L Remdesivir vials have been delivered or dispatched through road and air, so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-states-account-for-over-72-per-cent-of-new-covid-19-cases-101620895587131.html
13-05-2021||India||Odisha records 10,649 new Covid cases; active cases cross 100,000-mark||The sharp rise in daily Covid-19 cases and deaths in Odisha continued on Thursday even as the number of active cases crossed the one-lakh mark for the first time in the coastal state since the beginning of the pandemic last year, a health department official said.The Covid-19 caseload in the state mounted to 576, 297 as 10,649 more people tested positive for the disease and 19 fresh fatalities pushed the death toll to 2,251, he said.Odisha now has 100,313 active cases, the official said, adding that 473,680 patients have so far recovered from the infection.Khurda district, which comprises the state capital Bhubaneswar, accounted for 14,886 actives cases, followed by Sundargarh (11,466) and Cuttack (8,274).Of the fresh cases, 5,965 were reported from quarantine centres and 4,684 detected during contact tracing.According to the official, Khurda also recorded the highest number of new cases at 1,557, followed by Cuttack (930), Sundargarh (774), Angul (557) and Balasore (503).Taking to Twitter, the Health and Family Welfare Department said, "Regret to inform the demise of nineteen Covid positive patients while under treatment in hospitals."Three fresh deaths were reported from Angul district and two each from Sundargarh and Puri. One patient each from Balasore, Bargah, Khurda, Bolangir, Boudh, Ganjam, Jagatsinghpur, Kandhamal, Malkangiri, Nuapadda, Rayagada and Sambalpur succumbed to the infection, he said.Fifty-three other Covid-19 patients have so far died due to comorbidities, the official said.The state has so far conducted over 1.07 crore sample tests for Covid-19, including 51,451 on Wednesday, and the positivity rate stands at 5.38 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-records-10-649-new-covid-cases-active-cases-cross-100000mark-101620896031382.html
13-05-2021||India||Four killed, 10 injured after boiler explodes at Tamil Nadu chemical plant||Four workers including a woman were killed and 10 injured on Thursday due to the release of Ammonia after a boiler exploded in a chemical plant here, the government said.Chief Minister MK Stalin ordered a solatium of ₹three lakh to the kin of each of the deceased. He has also directed assistance of ₹one lakh to each of the injured."Ammonia gas got released following boiler explosion," a government release said adding it led to the death of four people and 10 were injured.At the time of the mishap, police said workers were engaged in their usual work this morning at the plant that produces chemical active ingredients and intermediates for crop protection.The explosion led to the diffusion of gas in the plant premises leading to asphyxiation of three men and a woman and the mishap caused injuries to 10 others, they said."They did not sustain burn injuries. Death was due to asphyxiation (due to gas release)," Cuddalore District Police Superintendent, Sree Abhinav told reporters.A case is registered and a probe is on.Labour Minister C V Ganesan said an enquiry would be ordered into the mishap.The injured were rushed to the Cuddalore Government Hospital and were being treated. The Minister visited the health facility and interacted with them and he said an enquiry would be ordered into the accident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-killed-10-injured-after-boiler-explodes-at-tamil-nadu-chemical-plant-101620895336660.html
13-05-2021||India||UPSC postpones June 27 civil services preliminary exam; to be held on Oct 10||The Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) on Thursday postponed the civil services preliminary examination, scheduled to be held in June, to October 10 in view of the alarming Covid situation.The commission conducts civil services examination annually in three stages -- preliminary, main and interview -- to select officers of Indian Administrative Service (IAS), Indian Foreign Service (IFS) and Indian Police Service (IPS) among others."Due to the prevailing conditions caused by the novel coronavirus (Covid-19), the Union Public Service Commission has deferred the civil services (preliminary) examination, 2021, which was scheduled to be held on 27th June, 2021. Now, this examination will be held on 10th October, 2021," a statement issued by the commission said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/upsc-postpones-june-27-civil-services-preliminary-exam-to-be-held-on-oct-10-101620895077134.html
13-05-2021||India||When to take Covid-19 vaccine 2nd dose? What to do if once infected? What experts recommend||The gap between the first dose and the second dose of a Covid-19 vaccine has become crucial in India as many beneficiaries are missing the date of the second dose because of the shortage of doses. On Thursday, the government expert panel recommended that the gap between the two doses of Covishield can be further extended to 12 to 16 weeks. These recommendations will be sent to the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration before the changes come to effect. Here is all you need to know about the proposed changes:1. When should you take the 2nd dose?In general, a gap of a minimum of 28 days is suggested between two doses of Covid-19 vaccines. But for Covishield, the vaccine developed by Oxford University and Astrazeneca and produced in India by Pune's Serum Institute, the gap has been revised based on "emerging scientific evidence". When India started the vaccination drive in January, the recommended gap was four to six weeks. In March, the gap period was revised and extended to four to eight weeks. Now the expert group has again recommended widening the gap to 12 to 16 weeks. Once the recommendation is accepted, the Centre will inform the states and the UTs accordingly. Till then, the existing gap will continue to be followed.2. Why does the gap matter?Studies have revealed that Covishield works better when the two doses are spaced apart. The Lancet, in February, said, Covishield's effectiveness increases by over 26 per cent if the doses are spaced 12 or more weeks apart. Reports said the gap has been again revised based on practical evidence reported in the UK.Defer vaccination for 6 months after recovery from Covid-19, says govt panel3. Why is the gap between the two doses of Covaxin not revised?According to experts, Covaxin has been developed in a different way. It is an inactivated vaccine, which contains a "dead virus, incapable of infecting people but still able to instruct the immune system to mount a defensive action against an infection". There is no data on whether the effectiveness increases if the gap is widened as during the trial, everyone was given the second dose after 28 days. Hence, its two doses are given 28 days apart and no change has been suggested to this gap.4. When to take the 1st dose if you have already been infected once?According to the existing protocol, one can take the vaccine four to eight weeks after recovering from Covid-19. Under its new recommendations, the expert group has suggested that one can defer vaccination for six months after recovery. But it is applicable to only those having laboratory test proven SARS-CoV-2 illness. It is not clear what Covid suspect patients should do as doctors are starting treatment if the symptoms are present, without waiting for test results.5. What to do if one gets infected after the first dose of the vaccine?Such people should wait for 4-8 weeks after recovery from the illness for their second dose, the new recommendations of the expert panel said.6. What if you miss the date of your second dose of vaccination because the vaccination centre has run out of stock?Several doctors are of the opinion that a little delay in the second dose won't make much difference but it should not be skipped as both doses ensure full protection from the virus.7. Can patients who have been treated with plasma take the vaccine? When should they take the 1st dose?According to the government expert panel, those who have been treated with monoclonal antibodies or convalescent plasma may defer their first dose for three months after getting discharged from the hospital.(With PTI Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-to-take-covid-19-vaccine-2nd-dose-when-to-take-1st-dose-if-once-infected-here-s-all-you-need-to-know-101620893941629.html
13-05-2021||India||Bodies found buried in sand near Ganga in Uttar Pradesh's Unnao||Days after bodies of suspected Covid-19 patients washed up on the shores of the river Ganga in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, more have been found buried in the sand in Unnao.A team of the local police is in the process of carrying out an inquiry and searches are being conducted for more bodies.According to District Magistrate Ravinder Kumar, the bodies were found buried in an area far from the river."Our team has found buried bodies in an area far from the river. Search being conducted for more bodies in other areas. I have asked a team to carry out an inquiry. Action will be taken accordingly," the DM said.Over the last two days, horrific scenes of dead bodies floating in the Ganga river in Uttar Pradesh's Ghazipur and Bihar's Buxar caused panic among locals who feared that the bodies were of deceased Covid patients.According to Bihar Minister Sanjay Kumar Jha, 71 bodies were taken out from the river in Buxar district and their last rites performed and a net has been placed in the Ganga in Ranighat, bordering UP and Bihar, to stop any similar incident from happening again.Local residents have complained of stench coming from the bloated, decomposed corpses and accused the authorities of ineptitude.These incidents have sparked fears about the scale of the Covid crisis in the country. Authorities believe the relatives of those who succumbed to the virus, may not have been able to find space for the last rites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bodies-found-buried-in-sand-near-ganga-in-uttar-pradesh-s-unnao-101620893824088.html
13-05-2021||India||Vedanta’s Sterlite plant dispatches first oxygen tanker||Vedanta-owned Sterlite copper smelter plant in Thoothukudi on Thursday dispatched the first tanker of 4.8 tonnes of medical grade oxygen to Tirunelveli medical college. Thoothukudi district collector K Senthil Raj said the first tanker with 4.8 tonnes of medical-grade oxygen was dispatched at 7am. “98.6% purity has been checked at the QC (quality control) lab within Sterlite and sent to Tirunelveli medical college,” he said. Police personnel were deployed to escort the vehicle.The Sterlite facility, which was shut down in 2018 for violating environmental norms, was re-opened following a Supreme Court order only to produce oxygen which is in demand across the country for treating critical Covid-19 patients. The order will be in effect until July 30. Also Read | Stalin appoints new officers to key administrative positionsThe oxygen production will be scaled up and logistics are being worked out for its transport to other parts of the country. The plant started manufacturing oxygen on May 12, said a statement from Vedanta. They will dispatch two such oxygen tankers every day as the production is gradually increased. “The oxygen supplied is of 98.6% purity and has received the necessary medical grade certifications. We are now working with experts to resolve the logistics involved in transporting the oxygen produced in our facility to required parts of India, and are coordinating with the authorised nodal agencies in this regard,” the statement added.The state government had shut the company in May 2018 after largescale protests that it was causing pollution and public health problems. On the 100th day of the protests, 13 people were killed in police firing. The case is being probed by the CBI and the retired justice Aruna Jagadeesan committee. A case for Vedanta’s plea to re-open the unit is pending in the apex court. Local residents have been protesting the apex court order allowing medical oxygen production at the unit, afraid that the company will gain backdoor entry and re-open the facility. A seven-member committee headed by the collector has been formed on the court’s direction to oversee the functioning of the plant and redress concerns of residents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vedantas-sterlite-plant-dispatches-first-oxygen-tanker-101620893270265.html
13-05-2021||India||'More to life than image building': Anupam Kher says Centre 'slipped' in Covid-19 response||As the deadlier, more infectious second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) continues wreaking havoc in India, the central government has been facing strict censure from several quarters over its alleged mismanagement of the pandemic. This time, Bollywood actor Anupam Kher, noted film personality and an otherwise generous proponent of the Narendra Modi-led NDA government, has appeared to open up on where he felt the Centre had "slipped" in Covid-19 response.Anupam Kher, in an interview with news publication NDTV, said that it is important to hold the government responsible for what is happening in the country in the wake of the second Covid-19 wave. "Somewhere they have slipped. It is time for them to understand that there is much more to life than just image building maybe," Kher was quoted as saying in the interview by news agency PTI.The news agency reported that Anupam Kher is often viewed as being close to the Narendra Modi-led government, and that his criticism of the government's "image building" in the face of a pandemic is a striking shift from his usual tone.Anupam Kher, a former chairman of the Film and Television Institute of India (FTII) also added, however, that using the government's lapses for political advantages was wrong."I think the criticism is valid in lots of cases... Only an inhuman person will not get affected by the bodies floating (in the rivers)," Kher said in a reference to the scores of bodies found floating in the Ganga and other rivers, leading to suspicion that they might be those of Covid-19 patients."But for another political party to use it for their gain, I think that is also not right. I think we should, as people, get angry. It is important to hold the government responsible for what's happening," he added.As the second wave of the coronavirus disease progresses, the central government has repeatedly been facing severe critiques over its Covid-19 policies, from procurement of vaccines to the alleged dearth in supply of medical oxygen, hospital beds, ventilators, and other medical supplies. Anupam Kher termed the state of affairs in the country a "war-like" situation and said that people have the right to complain and get angry but that it should not hold back on being compassionate towards fellow citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-to-life-than-image-building-anupam-kher-says-centre-slipped-in-covid-19-response-101620889484127.html
13-05-2021||India||Maha extends lockdown till June 1; negative RT-PCR mandatory for entering state||The Maharashtra government on Thursday extended the ongoing lockdown for two weeks, citing that it was “imperative to continue emergency measures to contain the spread of virus”. As per an order issued by chief secretary Sitaram Kunte, the lockdown has been extended till 7am of June 1. The order has also mandated negative RT-PCR report for those entering Maharashtra by any mode of transport. The test should be done up to 48 hours before entry in the state. The state government has also made all restrictions applicable to people coming in from eight states, which were termed places of sensitive origin. These restrictions include mandatory 15-day home quarantine even if they are carrying a negative report. People will be stamped on their hand for home quarantine. The states in the “sensitive origin” category are Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Kerala, Goa, Gujarat, Delhi and NCR region, Rajasthan and Uttarakhand.Also Read | Maharashtra to compile database of mucormycosis to assess its spreadThe order stated, “The State of Maharashtra is continued to be threatened with the spread of Covid-19 virus, and therefore it is imperative to continue emergency measures to prevent and contain the spread of virus, therefore,the Government...finds it is necessary to continue the enforcement of the current restrictions, along with certain additional restrictions, thoughout the State beyond 7 AM on 15th May, 2021 till 7 AM on lst June, 2021 to break the chain of transmission effectively.”The order added that local disaster management authority should keep “special vigil” over rural markets and mandis to ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour. It added that local disaster management authority can decide to add further restrictions with 48-hour notice.On Wednesday, the state recorded 46,781 new cases, and 816 deaths. The total number of Covid-19 cases in the state has now reached 5,226,710.There are currently 546,129 active cases in the state of which Pune has the most, 103,067 cases, followed by Nagpur with 49,345. The death toll has now reached 78,007 with Mumbai leading with 13,972 fatalities, followed by Pune with 10,176.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-extends-lockdown-till-june-1-negative-rt-pcr-mandatory-for-entering-state-101620890989731.html
13-05-2021||India||Low key Eid celebrations in Kashmir amid Covid-19 restrictions||Eid-ul-Fitr is being celebrated in a subdued manner in the Kashmir valley without holding big congregations due to the restrictions imposed to contain Covid-19 pandemic. Jammu and Kashmir has currently 50,000 active cases of the disease and Srinagar district has the highest number of these. The valley continues to remain under a lockdown with curfew-like restrictions imposed in the 10 districts of the division with an aim to prevent further spread of coronavirus.Eid prayers were held in mosques but the majority of residents stayed at home following the Covid-19 containment guidelines. Muslims offer special prayers as a mark of thanksgiving to the almighty at the end of the month-long Ramzan fasting.No big Eid gathering was reported from any part of Kashmir. City’s grand mosque - Jamia Masjid and Dargah Hazratbal, where thousands used to offer prayers on Eid, were locked as the mosque management committee had asked people to offer prayers at local mosques instead to avoid crowding at one place. This is the fourth consecutive Eid-ul-Fitr in Kashmir which is being celebrated in a sombre atmosphere.Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor (LG) Manoj Sinha extended warm greetings to the people on the occasion.“May this auspicious festival deepen the bond of unity; bring peace, prosperity, and happiness. I urge everyone to follow the Covid protocols, offer Eid prayers at home and stay safe,” the LG said in his message.On late Wednesday night, grand mufti Nasir ul Islam announced the sighting of crescent moon and declared Eid on Thursday. Due to the existing curfew, many people were unable to make Eid purchases. Though on Tuesday, the administration had relaxed the curfew for a few hours which led to a rush in the markets and traffic jams, forcing authorities to withdraw the relaxation not only in Srinagar but also in other districts.Last year, Eid-ul-Azha prayers were low key in view of the pandemic, while Eid-ul-Fitr prayers could not be offered in May due to a Covid-induced lockdown. Before that, Eid-ul-Azha prayers in 2019 could not be offered in Kashmir as authorities had imposed a strict curfew in the wake of the abrogation of Article 370 of the Constitution and bifurcation of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir into Union territories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/low-key-eid-celebrations-in-kashmir-amid-covid-19-restrictions-101620890869859.html
13-05-2021||India||News updates from HT | 50 employees suffering from Covid-19: Bharat Biotech's message and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.50 employees suffering from Covid: Bharat Biotech's message amid vaccine woesBharat Biotech joint managing director Suchitrs Ella on Wednesday said the vaccine maker is working round the clock to ensure the supply of the vaccines at a time when 50 of its employees are fighting the infection. Read moreAs states float global tenders, uncertainty persists over vaccine suppliesOn Wednesday, Tamil Nadu became 11th state in India to opt for floating of global tenders to get Covid-19 vaccines, even as states which have decided to opt for global tenders lack clarity on when they would receive these additional doses of vaccines and have cut back on plans to vaccinate those in the 18-45 age bracket in the wake of vaccine shortage. Read moreKejriwal asks 'where is India' as states float global tenders for Covid vaccinesDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said several states floating separate tenders to procure Covid-19 vaccines from abroad is detrimental for India's image in the world. Read moreGovt says reports of faulty ventilators in Punjab's Faridkot hospital unfounded, issue with hospital infrastructureIn what appeared to be a rebuttal to these claims, the Union government on Thursday said the reports about ventilators being of poor quality seem to be unfounded and do not have full information on the matter. Read more'They weren't going to the Gabba': Australia captain Tim Paine says India good at 'niggling' and 'creating sideshows'Australia captain Tim Paine has taken a shot at India, saying the Indian cricket team are good at distracting the opposition with things that 'do not matter'. Read moreMahindra Thar launch in Australia halted after Jeep moves court over designMahindra and Mahindra has put off its plans to launch the Thar SUV down under after US-based carmaker Fiat Chrysler, which owns the Jeep brand, decided to move court in Australia. Read moreZareen Khan weighed over 100kg in college: 'I only faced body-shaming when I entered the film industry'Actor Zareen Khan has revealed that she faced fat-shaming in the film industry after she started acting. She also said that she was never bullied for her weight prior to that, even when she weighed more than 100kg when in college. Read moreWatch: India receives Covid medical supplies from Germany, Finland and Greece||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-50-employees-suffering-from-covid-19-bharat-biotech-s-message-amid-vaccine-woes-and-all-the-latest-news-101620889555521.html
13-05-2021||India||As states float global tenders, uncertainty persists over vaccine supplies||On Wednesday, Tamil Nadu became 11th state in India to opt for floating of global tenders to get Covid-19 vaccines, even as states which have decided to opt for global tenders lack clarity on when they would receive these additional doses of vaccines and have cut back on plans to vaccinate those in the 18-45 age bracket in the wake of vaccine shortage.Conversations with officials across the states indicate that most states are not very confident of getting the vaccines from international players soon as only those manufacturers who have been approved by Drug Controller of India can supply vaccines.States are also facing an additional challenge — most international vaccine manufacturers already have made supply commitments to domestic governments or other countries, which may have made advance bookings.Officials also said the only possible way to deal with vaccine shortage is to remove the patents and allow government-run public sector undertakings (PSUs) to manufacture the vaccines in large numbers to meet the domestic demand for vaccination to all above 18 years of age. They, however, said even if the patents are removed now, PSUs would take at least a few months to produce first batch of vaccines.“We have no option but to allow public sector companies to manufacture vaccines,” said Andhra Pradesh chief minister M Jagan Reddy in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday, asking the PM to direct Bharat Biotech to transfer the vaccine technology to whichever company is capable of manufacturing vaccines.Covaxin, India’s first indigenously developed Covid-19 vaccine, is a collaborative effort between Bharat Biotech and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). It was developed using the SARS-CoV-2 strain, isolated in the National Institute of Virology in Pune, which functions under ICMR. ICMR and Bharat Biotech jointly carried out the clinical and pre-clinical trials of the vaccine in India.Also Read | 50 employees suffering from Covid: Bharat Biotech’s message amid vaccine woesOn Wednesday, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee asked PM Modi to allow “liberal, pro-active and discerning” import of vaccine saying 100 million in the state need to be vaccinated and supply of doses was “extremely inadequate.”“Kindly consider if we could encourage the world players to open up franchise operations in our country. Even the national players could be inspired to go for the franchisee mode for bulk production of vaccines. We, in West Bengal, are ready to provide land and support for any manufacturing/franchisee operation for authentic vaccine manufacturing,” Banerjee wrote.Giving reasons for her letter, a senior West Bengal government official, who did not wish to be named, said that it was made clear at the meeting with the CM that getting vaccines from international manufacturers to vaccinate all will not be easy.Another state government official said Serum Institute has informed the state that it would not be able to provide vaccines to private players before July and supply for 18-44 age group will also be limited. “That is the reason for us to stop walk-ins for 18-44 age group,” the second official said.Rupak Barua, group CEO, AMRI Hospitals and president of the Association of Hospitals of Eastern India, said that April 30 was the last day when private hospitals received supply of vaccines through the state health department.“Those who received their first dose at private hospitals will be able to get their second dose from government health care facilities,” he said. During the last census in 2011, Bengal’s population stood at 91.3 million and it is projected to have increased to 101.9 million in 2021.The Tamil Nadu cabinet on Wednesday decided to float global tenders to vaccinate people in 18 to 44 age group even as the state has received 7.7 million vaccine doses for those above 45 years of age. It has utilised 6.5 million doses. “We are planning a road map but a lot will depend on vaccines we can import,” said Vinay Kumar, joint director for immunisation, directorate of public health.The state has more than 3,000 vaccination sites and is experiencing a shortage. “With such a shortage at hand, how can we distribute and vaccinate people on a sustained basis?” a senior health official said, not wishing to be identified. He added that the current strategy was to vaccine vulnerable groups with the vaccines the state was receiving.Officials in Uttar Pradesh said they did not expect to get the first delivery of vaccines from international manufacturers before July. The state has decided to import 40 million vaccine doses.Also Read | Kejriwal asks ‘where is India’ as states float global tenders for Covid vaccines“The state is going to have a pre-bid qualification meeting with any prospective suppliers. After that, bids are scheduled for May 21. The companies (those who are interested) would mention the delivery schedule then,” said state health minister Jai Pratap Singh. The vaccination for 18-44 age group is underway only in 18 of the state’s 75 districts as the state has received only 8% of the vaccines it has booked with Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech, officials said.Punjab, which needs to vaccinated around 20 million people in the 18-plus age group, has placed order for three million doses with Serum Institute and has received only 100,000 doses from the Pune-based company. The next consignment of 230,000 doses is expected to arrive from SII between May 15-May 25, when Punjab plans to start vaccinating the 18-plus.The state set up around 3,000 vaccination centres when the vaccination opened up for 45-plus category from April 1 and 80,000 to 90,000 jabs a day were administered. As the Centre’s supply was cut short, state average day coverage has come down to 40,000-50,000 jabs.Punjab’s health minister Balbir Sidhu has blamed the inadequate supply from the Centre as the reason behind slow vaccination in the state. “At the start of the drive, we faced a lot of hesitancy for the vaccine. However, now when we have set up our centres across the state and motivated the people by running massive awareness drive, low stocks has discouraged us,” said Sidhu.Officials in several states such as Himachal Pradesh, Punjab and Uttarakhand said that in absence of adequate vaccines for 18-44 age group, the governments have decided to continue vaccination for 45 plus age groups only. Most of these state governments are waiting for additional vaccines to resume vaccination in full swing.On Wednesday, Uttarakhand chief secretary Om Prakash said the government has decided to import over 2 million Covid vaccines in the next two months. “Vaccines will take time to come,” he said, adding the Centre was allocating vaccines to state based on its population.A Rajasthan government official said that the international manufacturers have not even replied to queries regarding how much vaccines they can supply. “We presume many have prior commitments and may not be in a position to supply vaccines to Indian states immediately. We have decided to float global tenders to get vaccines in the next three to four months,” the official requesting anonymity said.Experts said the states need to change its strategy and look for vulnerable community vaccination. “We are working on procurement, which is good, but we need to change our strategy from hospital facility to community based involving civil society organisations, religious leaders who will in turn mobilise communities,” says Prabhdeep Kaur, deputy director, National Institute of Epidemiology. “We need to target elderly and those vulnerable and people in the rural areas, who may not come forward to hospitals,” she added.“Vaccination for Covid needs to go the routine immunisation way now. Covid vaccine should be made available in every locality just as other vaccines are available. In a nutshell, vaccination coverage has to be expanded manifold now, and if there is shortage of vaccine, it should be procured so that private clinics can also participate in Covid vaccination to expand coverage,” said PK Gupta, former president of Indian Medical Association, Lucknow chapter.(With state bureaus)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-states-float-global-tenders-uncertainty-persists-over-vaccine-supplies-101620889729751.html
13-05-2021||India||Govt says reports of faulty ventilators in Punjab's Faridkot hospital unfounded, issue with hospital infrastructure||After reports of ventilators lying unused at Faridkot's Guru Gobind Singh Medical College (GGSMC) and Hospital surfaced, the Punjab government claimed that most of the life-saving machines supplied by the Centre under the PM Cares Fund are faulty and not in working condition. In what appeared to be a rebuttal to these claims, the Union government on Thursday said the reports about ventilators being of poor quality seem to be unfounded and do not have full information on the matter."There have been some media reports suggesting that Government of India supplied ventilators (supported by PM CARES) to GGS Medical College and Hospital, Faridkot, Punjab are lying unused as a result of technical glitches which have not been resolved due to poor after-sales support by the manufacturers. These reports seem to be unfounded, not having the full information on the matter," the government said.Also read: Nearly 40% of PM Cares ventilators faulty or pending installation in PunjabThe government said 88 of the ventilators were supplied by Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL) and it has informed that the bulk of ventilators supplied to the hospital are not faulty, as are being reported. It said that their engineers have observed that there are problems with the infrastructure in GGSMCH like the non-availability of required pressure in the central oxygen gas pipelines. The hospital authorities are not following the prescribed norms of changing consumables like flow sensors, bacteria filters and HME filters or they are using the machines without these important consumable items, the government said in a statement. Correct gas pressure and the proper use of consumables are necessary for the efficient functioning of CV200 ventilators, the statement added.The Union government said that the BEL engineers have visited the hospital multiple times in the past to address the issues and promptly carried out minor repairs. Various demonstrations on the functioning of the ventilators were also conducted by the engineers for the staff of the hospital.BEL engineers visited the hospital on Wednesday as well and "made five ventilators functional only by replacing a few consumables and demonstrated their optimum performance to the GGSMCH authorities, thereby, further making it evident that when operated properly, the ventilators will provide reliable performance," the government added.Also read: Foreign aid for Covid-19 swiftly cleared for states, says CentreThe government also said that BEL will continue to provide all the technical support required by the state in meeting the requirement of ventilators during the coronavirus pandemic.The ventilators in Faridkot's medical college and hospital came under the spotlight after the Aam Aadmi Party MLA Kultar Singh Sandhwan tweeted a picture of the machines lying unused in the hospital on Tuesday. Post which, Baba Farid University of Health Sciences Vice-Chancellor Raj Bahadur said 82 ventilators were received by the hospital of which 62 were not in working condition since the beginning. Guru Gobind Singh Medical College (GGSMC) and Hospital comes under the Baba Farid University of Health Sciences.Meanwhile, the state government on Wednesday also claimed that 130 of the 809 ventilators received from the Centre are not functional, as per a PTI report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-says-reports-of-faulty-ventilators-in-punjab-s-faridkot-hospital-unfounded-issue-with-hospital-infrastructure-101620881437267.html
13-05-2021||India||PM missing along with vaccines, oxygen, medicines, says Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi launched an attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday, alleging that he is missing along with vaccines, oxygen and medicines during the Covid-19 pandemic and what remains is the central vista project and the PM's photos."The prime minister is also missing, along with vaccines, oxygen and medicines. All that remain are the central vista project, GST on medicines and the prime minister's photos here and there," he said in a tweet in Hindi.Gandhi has been attacking the prime minister over the government's handling of the pandemic and has been critical of the Centre for the lack of oxygen, medicines and vaccines in the country amid a surge in the number of cases during the second wave of Covid-19.Congress's chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala also hit out at the government over dead bodies floating in the Ganga."What time has come in this New India that even dead bodies floating in rivers are not visible to the government. Shame...," he said in a tweet in Hindi, while citing a news report about the bodies being buried in sand in Uttar Pradesh's Unnao.With a single-day rise of 3,62,727 cases, India's Covid-19 tally climbed to 2,37,03,665 on Thursday, while the death toll due to the viral disease rose to 2,58,317 with 4,120 more people succumbing to it, according to the health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-missing-along-with-vaccines-oxygen-medicines-says-rahul-gandhi-101620886194617.html
13-05-2021||India||Banks to remain closed on May 13, 14 in these parts of India. Check here||Banks will remain shut in most parts of the country for the next two days on May 13 and 14. These two days are declared as holidays under the Negotiable Instruments Act by the Reserve Bank of India.All banks including the private sector, regional banks, foreign banks, cooperative banks remain closed on certain days notified by the federal bank under the Negotiable Instruments Act, holiday, real time gross settlement holiday and banks’ closing of accounts, as per the guidelines.Also read: BSE, NSE to remain closed today on account of Eid-ul-FitrBank holidays vary from state to state and are not observed nationwide. Only gazetted holidays are observed by banks across the nation.On the occasion of Ramzan-Id (Id-Ul-Fitr) (Shawal-1) on May 13, the banks will remain closed in Belapur, Jammu, Kochi, Mumbai, Nagpur, Srinagar, Thiruvananthapuram.Banks will be closed on May 14 on the occasion of Bhagvan Shree Parshuram Jayanti, Ramjan-Eid (Eid-UI-Fitra), Basava Jayanti, Akshaya Tritiya.The lenders will be closed in Agartala, Ahmedabad, Aizawl, Bengaluru, Bhopal, Bhubaneswar, Chandigarh, Chennai, Dehradun, Gangtok, Guwahati, Hyderabad, Imphal, Jaipur, Jammu, Kanpur, Kolkata, Lucknow, New Delhi, Panaji, Patna, Raipur, Ranchi, Shillong, Shimla on May 14.Also read: Bitcoin falls after Musk halts Tesla purchases with currencyThe private and public sector banks in the country are closed every second and fourth Saturday of the month. As per a notification of the Reserve Bank of India, banks are also closed on all Sundays.Other days in May when banks will remain closed include:May 16, when it is a Sunday.May 22, which is the fourth Saturday of the monthMay 23, as it is a SundayOn the occasion of Buddha Purnima on May 26. This holiday will be observed in many states.May 30, Sunday||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/banks-to-remain-closed-on-may-13-14-in-these-parts-of-india-check-here-101620883969920.html
13-05-2021||India||Link PAN card and Aadhaar via income tax portal or SMS: A step-by-step guide||Linking your Aadhaar card with the PAN card is necessary at this point, and if you still have not done it, you should consider doing so. According to the latest updates, the last date to link Aadhaar with PAN has been extended to June 30, and it is not yet clear if this deadline will be extended any further. If one still has not linked their Aadhaar with PAN by this deadline, penal action might follow.Also Read: Centre extends Aadhaar-PAN linking deadline to June 30, cites Covid-19 pandemicThere are five simple steps with which one can easily link their Aadhaar card with the permanent account number (PAN). Fret not, it's not a complex procedure. Here's the complete guide on linking PAN with Aadhaar:How to link the Aadhaar card with PAN?There are currently two ways to link Aadhaar with PAN: via the official portal of the income tax department and alternatively, using the SMS service to link the two identifiers. We will cover both processes in this step-by-step guide:1. Linking PAN and Aadhaar using the income tax portal:To link the Aadhaar card with the PAN number using the official portal of the income tax department, follow these five simple steps:Step 1: Visit the official e-filing portal of the income tax department: http://incometaxindiaefiling.gov.in/Step 2: On the homepage, you will find a series of 'Quick Links' to the left. Find the ‘Link Aadhaar’ section and click on it. It should be the second option from the top.Step 3: On the next page, you will be given a form to fill. Carefully put in the PAN number, Aadhaar number, name as per the Aadhaar card. Check the 'I have only year of birth in Aadhaar Card', if suitable. Don't forget to check in the 'I agree to validate my Aadhaar details with UIDAI' box before proceeding.Step 4: Enter the captcha code as provided in the image. Visually challenged persons can also request a one-time password (OTP) if the image captcha seems too complicated.Step 5: Click on the 'Link Aadhaar' option. The income tax department will validate your details, thereafter your PAN-Aadhaar linking will be completed.2. Linking PAN and Aadhaar using the SMS service:To link the Aadhaar card with the PAN number using the SMS service, follow these five simple steps:Step 1: Open the desired messaging platform on your mobile phone. You will need to send in an SMS to the income tax department to remotely link your PAN with Aadhaar.Step 2: Type in the following on the SMS platform:UIDPAN <12-digit Aadhaar number> <10-digit PAN number>Step 3: Note that to successfully link your Aadhaar with PAN, the aforementioned format should be followed carefully, including the spaces as provided above. You must have your Aadhaar and PAN numbers ready to input them in the process.Step 4: Send the SMS to either 567678 or 56161. Either of the numbers shall do fine. Please note that the SMS must be sent only once from your registered mobile number.Step 5: The income tax department will validate your details, thereafter your PAN-Aadhaar linking will be completed.A few details to note while linking PAN with Aadhaar:1. The name, date of birth, and gender as per the PAN card will be validated against your the same in your Aadhaar details during the verification process.2. Ensure that the Aadhaar number and the spelling of your name are exactly as those printed on your Aadhaar card. The same details will already be mentioned on the PAN card as well.3. Proceed with linking the PAN card with Aadhaar only if the details match. If there is a mismatch in either of the details, the same needs to be corrected in the documents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/link-pan-card-and-aadhaar-via-income-tax-portal-or-sms-a-step-by-step-guide-101620885546016.html
13-05-2021||India||50 employees suffering from Covid: Bharat Biotech's message amid vaccine woes||Bharat Biotech joint managing director Suchitrs Ella on Wednesday said the vaccine maker is working round the clock to ensure the supply of the vaccines at a time when 50 of its employees are fighting the infection. But some states are complaining, which is 'quite disheartening', Suchitra wrote on Twitter.Amid the ongoing second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, states are demanding more vaccines as every state is aiming at inoculating the maximum number of people before the pandemic hurls its third wave if any. From May 1, people falling in the age group of 18 to 44 years have been considered eligible for receiving vaccines. This added pressure to the ongoing vaccination drive of people above the age of 44 years. As the Centre has asked the states to prioritise the 45+ age group as they remain more vulnerable to the threat of the infection and many of them have already received the first dose of the vaccine, states are now halting the vaccination of the 18+ age group.Bharat Biotech, Serum Institute submit Covid vaccine production plans for next 4 months to CentreCovaxin dispatched 10/5/21.18 states have been covered thou in smaller shipments. Quite disheartening to the teams to hear Some states complaining about our intentions. 50 of our employees are off work due to covid, yet we continue to work under pandemic lockdowns 24x7 for U 🇮🇳 pic.twitter.com/FmQl4vtqXCDelhi, Maharashtra and Karnataka have already stalled the vaccination of the 18+ age group so that the second doses for 45+ people are not missed.Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday said Bharat Biotech has refused to provide additional vaccine doses to the Capital as it does not have stock at present. "The Covaxin manufacturer has in a letter said that it cannot provide the Delhi government vaccines due to unavailability, under the instruction of government officials concerned. It means that the central government is controlling the supply of the vaccine," Sisodia said.Bharat Biotech is supplying vaccines directly to Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Jammu & Kashmir, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, Tripura, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal since May 1. The shipments are small but there is no interruption in the supply, the firm has confirmed. The vaccine maker, which got the nod to conduct phase 2 and phase 3 trial of Covaxin on children below the age group of 18 years, is stepping up its vaccine production. In July, it aims to produce 3.32 crore doses and in August, the company aims to produce 7.82 crore doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/50-employees-suffering-from-covid-bharat-biotech-s-message-amid-vaccine-woes-101620887001411.html
13-05-2021||India||Kejriwal asks 'where is India' as states float global tenders for Covid vaccines||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said several states floating separate tenders to procure Covid-19 vaccines from abroad is detrimental for India's image in the world. Pitching for centralised procurement of vaccines from abroad, the chief minister said, "Indian states left to compete/fight with each other in the international market. UP fighting Maha, Maha fighting Orissa, Orissa fighting Delhi. Where is “India”? Portrays such a bad image of India."Also when we approach vaccine manufacturers and their countries as “India” rather than individual states, our bargaining power is much more, Indian govt has much more diplomatic space to negotiate with their countries. https://t.co/ZcMmbWTnshRajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Haryana and Delhi are the 10 states that have decided to go global to procure vaccines as the supply of vaccines in the country is not adequate compared with the population. States, irrespective of whether ruled by the BJP or not, are taking this route as vaccinating the maximum number of people is of paramount importance as of now. As the Centre is prioritising the administration of the second dose of vaccination, Delhi, Maharashtra and Karnataka have stalled the vaccination of people in the age group of 18 to 44 years for the time being."Also when we approach vaccine manufacturers and their countries as India rather than individual states, our bargaining power is much more, Indian govt has much more diplomatic space to negotiate with their countries," Kejriwal tweeted. Vaccine becomes a state versus state battle as richer states will be better positioned in procuring the highest number of vaccine doses.Giving tender for procuring vaccines is also happening at municipal level as the country's richest civic body, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation, on Wednesday floated a global expression of interest to procure one crore doses. Vaccine manufacturers, Indian partners, authorised distributors can participate in the bidding, but they should not belong to countries sharing border with India, the BMC said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kejriwal-asks-where-is-india-as-states-float-global-tenders-for-covid-vaccines-101620885162511.html
13-05-2021||India||Defer vaccination for 6 months after recovery from Covid-19, says govt panel||A government panel has recommended those testing positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) to defer vaccination for six months after recovery. The National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI), an advisory group on the Covid-19 vaccines, also recommended that the gap between the two doses of Covishield, which was earlier six to eight weeks, be increased to 12 to 16 weeks. This announcement comes amid acute shortage of vaccines across the country.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageNTAGI's recommendations will now be sent to the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for COVID-19 (NEGVAC) for approval.Earlier in March, the Centre had increased the gap between two doses of the Serum Institue of India (SII) vaccine from 28 days to six to eight weeks. No change has been suggested for interval between the two doses of Bharat Biotech's Covaxin.Numerous states with high infection rates, including Maharashtra, have halted vaccination for their population in the age group of 18-44 and diverted all vaccines to cover people above the age to 45. “We’re suspending the vaccination drive for the age group of 18-44 for the time being owing to the shortage of the vaccines,” Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said on Wednesday.Also Read: Bharat Biotech to conduct Covaxin trial on age group between 2 and 18In another announcement, the panel said pregnant women may take any one of the two Covid-19 vaccines and lactating women are also eligible for jabs at any time after delivery.According to a study recently published in the journal Obstetrics & Gynecology, vaccines result in no injury to the placenta in pregnant women. Most patients participating in these studies received either Moderna or the Pfizer vaccines, both of which are not in use in India yet. However, the study will help ease the prevalent vaccine hesitancy, especially among pregnant women, researchers said, according to news agency PTI."From what we can tell, the Covid vaccine does not damage the placenta," said Jeffery Goldstein, assistant professor at Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine in the US.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defer-vaccination-for-6-months-after-recovery-from-covid-19-says-govt-panel-101620884434595.html
13-05-2021||India||Download Aadhaar card online in 10 easy steps. Here's a complete guide||The Aadhaar card can be downloaded by any valid citizen of India easily from the official website of the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI). To download an Aadhaar card online, a person will any one of the following: the registered Aadhaar Number, the Enrolment ID (EID), or the Virtual ID (VID). Downloading the e-Aadhaar online, i.e. an electronic copy of the Aadhaar card can be done in ten simple steps with the help of either of these credentials.What is Aadhaar?The Aadhaar card provides the 12-digit unique identity number to an Indian citizen, which can then be used to avail public benefits provided by the Government of India.For the purpose of overseeing this Aadhaar process, the central government in 2009 set up the UIDAI, a statutory authority under the Union ministry of electronics and information technology.Is e-Aadhaar different from a physical copy of the Aadhaar card?Downloading the Aadhaar card online will provide an individual with the 'e-Aadhaar', a password-protected PDF copy of the Aadhaar, digitally signed by the competent authority of UIDAI. According to the government, this e-Aadhaar is just as valid as the physical copy of Aadhaar for all purposes.Also Read: Centre extends Aadhaar-PAN linking deadline to June 30, cites Covid-19 pandemicA 'Masked Aadhaar' can also be downloaded online from the government portal. The masked Aadhaar gives an individual the option to mask or hide their Aadhaar number in the downloaded e-Aadhaar copy for privacy purposes.How to download Aadhaar card online using Aadhaar number?Download the UIDAI Aadhaar card online using your Aadhaar number with these 10 simple steps:1. Visit the official UIDAI website for Aadhaar: https://uidai.gov.in2. Once you arrive at the homepage, find the 'Get Aadhaar' option. It should be right there at the top. Click on it.3. On the next page, click on the 'Download Aadhaar' option. It should be the fourth option from the top. Alternatively, you can click here to directly arrive at the desired page.4. Next, you will be given a choice to enter either the Aadhaar number, the Enrolment ID (EID), or the Virtual ID (VID). Since we are presently showcasing the Aadhaar Number option, we will proceed with that.5. The Aadhaar number is a 12-digit unique identifier (UID) that is divided in the following format: 1234/1234/1234, where the digits vary from user to user. You will find the Aadhaar number on the physical copy of your Aadhaar card. Enter the digits.6. Check the 'I want a masked Aadhaar' option only if you want an e-Aadhaar copy where the Aadhaar number remains masked. Else, keep it unchecked.7. Verify the image captcha in the blank space carefully, and click on the 'Send OTP' option. The portal will send a one-time password (OTP) to your registered mobile number.8. Once you receive the OTP on your registered mobile number, enter the password carefully after clicking on the 'Enter a TOTP' option on the page.9. Complete the survey and click on "Verify and Download" to download your electronic copy of the Aadhaar card online.10. Save the PDF copy carefully on your hard drive and produce it whenever required to avail public benefits.How to download Aadhaar card online using Enrolment ID (EID)?Download the UIDAI Aadhaar card online using your Enrolment number (EID) with these simple steps:1. Repeat steps 1 to 3 as narrated above.2. When you are given a choice, proceed with the 'Enrolment ID (EID)' option.3. Enter the 14-digit enrolment number and the 14-digit date-time stamp printed on the enrolment slip.4. Enter your full name and the pin code of your registered address.5. Follow steps 6 to 10 as given above to download your electronic copy of the Aadhaar card online.How to download Aadhaar card online using Virtual ID (VID)?Although a relatively new option, you can easily download the UIDAI Aadhaar card online using your Virtual ID (VID) with these simple steps:1. Repeat steps 1 to 3 from the first guide as usual.2. When you are given a choice, proceed with the 'Virtual ID (VID)' option.3. Enter the 16-digit virtual identification number.4. Enter your full name and the pin code of your registered address.5. Follow steps 6 to 10 from the first guide to download your electronic copy of the Aadhaar card online.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/download-aadhaar-card-online-in-10-easy-steps-here-s-a-complete-guide-101620879401856.html
13-05-2021||India||Chhattisgarh launches new portal to vaccinate those without mobile, internet||Chhattisgarh has launched CG Teeka web portal to enable the disadvantaged section of its population to register for Covid-19 vaccination programme through help desks, to be set up at hundreds of locations across the state.The state government said this initiative will help in “systematic” vaccination of residents in the 18-44 years age group by ensuring the state’s poor residents, lacking smart phone or internet facilities, are not left out from the Covid vaccination drive. The government is setting up help desks at the level of panchayats, urban bodies, and municipal corporations among other centres to help them register.“This initiative will save the people from waiting in long queues. All they have to do is to upload their personal details on http://cgteeka.cgstate.gov.in/user-registration. As soon as they complete the registration process online, they will receive the information about the time and place of vaccination via SMS,” said a senior state government official.The CoWIN web portal being used nationally to register beneficiaries of Covid vaccines, links the recipients to their mobile numbers, which needs to be entered into the system. Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel said CG Teeka web portal does away with the requirement of a mobile number, keeping in mind the largely poor and rural population of the state.“Around 48 percent of the people under the BPL (below poverty line), Antyodaya and destitute category do not have a mobile phone. Because of the system of compulsory online registration, this class may get deprived of Covid vaccination,” Baghel said, explaining the purpose of the initiative. The state government was recently directed by the high court to take special measures to ensure that the vaccination drive also reaches the underprivileged section of the population.“Convenience of every section of the society has been kept in mind while developing this web portal. People will get accurate information about the place and time of vaccination through this,” Baghel added.Meanwhile the principal secretary of the health department said the state was left with only 1 lakh doses of Covid vaccines out of the 5 lakh doses allotted to Chhattisgarh for vaccinating the 18-44 years age group.“As soon as the new consignment of vaccine doses arrives, people will be informed immediately about the time and place of vaccination through SMS,” said Alok Shukla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-launches-new-portal-to-vaccinate-those-without-mobile-internet-101620882589179.html
13-05-2021||India||Bharat Biotech to conduct Covaxin trial on age group between 2 and 18, DCGI gives nod||The Drug Controller General of India on Thursday gave permission to Bharat Biotech to conduct clinical trials of its Covid-19 vaccines Covaxin on children belonging to the age group of 2 to 18 years. Bharat Biotech will conduct the trials on 525 healthy volunteers, the Hyderabad-based firm said.The decision comes after the subject expert committee recommended permission in favour of Bharat Biotech. The permission has been granted after "careful examination", the government said.During the trial, the vaccine will be administered through muscles in two doses in a gap of 28 days, the government said. The trial will take place at AIIMS Delhi, AIIMS Patna and Meditrina Institute of Medical Sciences, Nagpur."As a rapid regulatory response, the proposal was deliberated in Subject Expert Committee (SEC) (COVID-19) on 11.05.2021. The Committee after detailed deliberation recommended for grant of permission to conduct proposed Phase II/III clinical trial to certain conditions," it said.Also Read: Covaxin receives nod for trials on childrenBharat Biotech, which developed Covaxin in association with the Indian Council of Medical Research, submitted the proposal of conducting trials on children early this year. The proposal was deliberated in the meeting of the subject expert committee in February as Bharat Biotech was asked to submit a revised clinical trial protocol.A few days ago, a wrong claim was doing the rounds that Covaxin has been approved for children above 12 years. The Centre refuted the claim and said no such approval was given.As India is going through the second wave of the pandemic amid which the ongoing vaccination drive has been opened from people between the age group of 18 and 44 years, the need to extend vaccination to those below 18 years has been felt.Pfizer-BioNTech's Covid-19 vaccine has been given emergency use authorisation for children aged between 12 and 15 in the US. Canada too has approved Pfizer for 12-year-olds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dcgi-approves-phase-2-3-clinical-trial-of-covaxin-on-218yearolds-101620882472678.html
13-05-2021||India||Oxygen concentrator case: Delhi court rejects bail plea of Navneet Kalra||A Delhi court on Thursday dismissed the anticipatory bail plea of businessman Navneet Kalra in connection with a case relating to the hoarding of oxygen concentrators in a restaurant in south Delhi. The court had yesterday reserved its order on the plea.The court was hearing Kalra's anticipatory bail plea in connection with the police seizing oxygen concentrators from his restaurants, including at Khan Chacha restaurant.The court had on Tuesday refused to give any interim relief from arrest to Kalra in the alleged oxygen concentrator hoarding and black marketing case.During a recent raid, 524 oxygen concentrators were recovered from three restaurants owned by Kalra. These concentrators are the crucial medical equipment used for Covid-19 management at a time when the nation is reeling under the coronavirus pandemic.Kalra has been on the run since the recovery of the oxygen concentrators. The police said that he could not be tracked despite raids being conducted in Delhi and in adjoining states such as Uttarakhand.According to the investigators, they have evidence that shows the oxygen concentrators were bought for ₹14,000-15,000 and sold at ₹70,000-75,000.Meanwhile, the Delhi high court has asked the accused in the alleged black marketing and hoarding cases of oxygen, drugs etc filed after May 2 to appear before the court virtually on the next date of hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oxygen-concentrator-case-delhi-court-rejects-bail-plea-of-navneet-kalra-101620880596310.html
13-05-2021||India||Govt ramping up availability of anti-fungal medicine for mucormycosis||The government is taking steps to ramp up the availability of anti-fungal medication amid a sharp rise in cases of mucormycosis, popularly known as black fungus, in Covid-19 patients.“A sudden increase in demand has been observed in some states for Amphotericin B which is being actively prescribed by the physicians to patients suffering from mucormycosis, a post-Covid complication. The Government of India is therefore engaging with the manufacturers to ramp up production of the drug. The supply position is expected to improve with extra imports of this drug and increase in its production domestically,” according to an official release from the ministry of chemicals and fertilizers.On May 11, after reviewing the stock position with the manufacturers and importers, and the demand pattern of Amphotericin B, the department of pharmaceuticals allocated the drug among the states, based on expected supply that will be available from May 10 to May 31, 2021. Also Read | Maharashtra to compile database of mucormycosis to assess its spreadAfter Covid-19 infection, the black fungus happens in those with uncontrolled diabetes, those who are immune-compromised, and those who are given excessive steroids or immune-modulating drugs such as tocilizumab. If left untreated, it might kill as many as 80% of the people who get it. If not detected early, it affects the orbit of the eye and the mouth, resulting in people losing their vision or jaw during debridement, the process of removing dead tissue from an infection or wound. The Centre has also asked states to put in place a mechanism for equitable distribution of supplies among government and private hospitals, and health care agencies. It has also asked them to publicise the ‘point of contact’ for private and government hospitals to obtain the drug from the allocated stock. The arrangements for supply will be monitored by the National Pharmaceuticals Pricing Authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-ramping-up-availability-of-anti-fungal-medicine-for-mucormycosis-101620880430370.html
13-05-2021||India||India records 3.62 lakh fresh Covid-19 infections, 4,120 deaths in 24 hours||A day after registering 4,205 Covid-19 deaths, the highest since the outbreak of the pandemic in the country in 2020, India in the last 24 hours reported 4,120 deaths, taking the total toll to 2,58,317, while 3,62,727 fresh infections took the tally of active cases to 37,10525. With 3,52,181 recoveries recorded in the last 24 hours, the total Covid-19 tally of the country stands at 23,703,665, the health ministry bulletin showed.Thursday's 24-hour tally is an increase from Wednesday's as 3,48,421 new cases were reported on Wednesday. The rise of new infections has been reported despite a slight fall in the number of tests. A total of 18,64,594 samples were tested in the last 24 hours. On May 11, about 19,83,804 samples were tested.Don’t be unrealistic on Covid-19 jabs, Centre tells statesAfter two days of fall, India's active case on Thursday rose again as the number of daily infections once again surpassed the number of daily recoveries. On Wednesday, India's total active caseload dipped to 37,04,099, which on Thursday settled at 37,10,525, registering an increase of 6,426.The country is fighting its worst battle against the pandemic with the highest rise in the number of cases, deaths — aggravated by a shortage of medical resources. However, the Centre's data projects green shoots of hope as daily recoveries exceeded daily cases in the last few days, a signal of the curve is being flattened.Though Maharashtra is reporting the highest number of daily infections, Karnataka at present has the highest number of active Covid-19 cases. In the last 24 hours, Maharashtra reported 46,781 new Covid-19 cases and 58,805 recoveries, which brought the active Covid-19 tally to 5,46,129.Karnataka, on the other hand, has 5,92,182 active cases. in the last 24 hours, the state recorded 39,998 fresh infections and 34,752 recoveries.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday chaired a meeting to review the availability of oxygen and medicines in the country. The supply of the oxygen at present is three times the supply during the first wave peak, the PM was told. The Centre on Wednesday also sanctions ₹322.5 crore from the PM-CARES fund to procure 1,50,000 units of Oxycare System.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-3-62-lakh-fresh-covid-19-infections-4-120-deaths-in-24-hours-101620874967539.html
13-05-2021||India||Lack of strong regional leaders, election discourse: What BJP is discussing now||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s regional leadership; the strength of its cadre and the election discourse have come in for scrutiny within the party, post the recent round of assembly elections. Senior party leader both at the centre and the state level said the party’s performance has underscored the need to alter the electioneering model that is heavily dependent on the central leadership. While the party managed to retain power in Assam and is part of a winning coalition in Puducherry; it emerged as the principal opposition in West Bengal and won four seats in Tamil Nadu but failed to win any seats in Kerala. “There is a need to have strong faces on the ground to take on opponents. This has been a key takeaway from the West Bengal election. Though in the past the party has fought most of the elections without a chief ministerial candidate, there is a perception that it does not work anymore. While the BJP and the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi are popular, having strong local leadership is essential,” said a senior party leader in Delhi. In-charge of the WB election, Kailash Vijayvargia told HT in an interview last week that the absence of a face to take on Mamata Banerjee could have been a reason for the party’s loss. “…The other reason (for the loss) can be that Mamata Banerjee’s leadership was towering; and we could not project a local leader (as a challenger to her),” he said. Also Read | For the PM, it is time to course-correctA second leader in Delhi said in the absence of a strong cadre in Bengal, the ground situation was “misrepresented” to the party high command. “A local leader who is invested in the state will always have a better estimate about the support at the booth level. This time it seems that was misrepresented,” the second leader said, indicating that the party misread the support on the ground. Since it won the 2019 general election with an unprecedented 303 MPs in the Lok Sabha , the party has lost elections in Delhi and Jharkhand. In Maharashtra, even though it is emerged as the single-largest party, it could not form the government after falling out with its oldest ally, the Shiv Sena, over a power-sharing agreement. The party managed to retain power in Haryana only after getting support from the Jannayak Janta Party. “There was a time when the BJP had a bouquet of regional stalwarts; there were Madan Lal Khuran and Sahib Singh Verma in Delhi, leaders such as Kushabhau Thakre, Kalyan Singh, Bhairav Singh Shekhwat, all of whom had considerable hold over their regions. Now, while PM Modi is the biggest vote catcher and the most popular leader, he needs strong regional leaders to retain those votes,” said a third leader. The party’s reliance on turncoats has also been red-flagged. While some senior party leaders defend laying the red carpet for defectors from other parties as a process that is required to supplement the organic growth; there are others who feel defending a former opponent, especially those who have allegations against them weakens the party’s claims of offering an alternative. Commenting on how the lack of strong regional leaders impacts the BJP’s ambition of a pan India presence, Sandeep Shastri, vice chancellor of the Jagran Lakecity University said, “Let’s remember post 2014, the BJP won in states that it wasn’t in power in. It does well as a contender not as much as an incumbent.” Also Read | Stop posturing; start vaccinatingHe went on to add, “Increasingly, state specificities are dictating the elections; the national leadership may help create a buzz, but unless there is credible regional leadership, the party will not benefit from the campaigns (by national leaders). The national leaders are the icing on the cake, but the base has to be the regional and local units.” Election Issues Another area that has come up for discussion is the party’s election discourse. Although, the party in its election manifesto released in all states focused on development, employment and economic welfare, there is a section of leaders which has pointed out that the party erred in navigating the discourse to contentious topics. They cite the example of allowing issues such as love jihad to dominate the discourse in West Bengal and the entry of women to Sabarimala in Kerala as a case in point. In Kerala, where the dip in the vote share has set off concern, the party has set up a committee to examine the reasons for the poor showing. The BJP with zero seats saw its voteshare climb down to 11.3% from the previous election’s 15%. “The party’s vote share is at its lowest [and that] calls for serious contemplation. Even during the Jana Sangh days, the party performed better. The inability to win even a single seat is another concern that the state leaders need to address, this when the state unit president himself contested from two constituencies,” said a senior party leader from the state. The leader said the party failed to read the sentiment on the ground at a time when the state was fighting the pandemic. “Harping on Sabarimala when people were more concerned about healthcare and how to sustain their lives was counter intuitive. The state president went campaigning in a helicopter, this raised eyebrows in a state where extravagance in politics is frowned upon,” said the leader. Professor of political science at the Jawaharlal Nehru University, Ajay Gudavarthy said the BJP lost in WB by not sticking to what it plans to offer people who were alienated by the TMC. He said the party needs to focus on local issues instead of trying to replicate the discourse that works in other places. “Instead of promising accountability and development, their narrative about Love Jihad that has traction maybe in the northern states, became the overwhelming part of the discourse,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lack-of-strong-regional-leaders-election-discourse-what-bjp-is-discussing-now-101620877308909.html
13-05-2021||India||Did Congress tweets create vaccine shortage? Shashi Tharoor's salvo at Hardeep Singh Puri||Replying to Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri's jibe on social media in which he accused Congress MP Shashi Tharoor of fanning vaccine hesitancy among people, Tharoor on Thursday asked the Union minister whether his tweets have created the vaccine shortage in the country. Delinking his initial "doubts" over vaccines from the vaccine crisis in the country, Tharoor asked whether Congress tweets have also been responsible for the Centre not ordering adequate vaccines."In short, when will the BJP Government take responsibility for its manifest failures of policy & management rather than pointing fingers at the Opposition in a vain attempt to divert attention from its own poor performance?" Tharoor tweeted.'Masters of doublespeak', minister slams Cong over Covid-19 vaccine, Tharoor repliesAfter consistently airing doubts on vaccine efficacy, he has made a turnaround on 28 April 2021, but not without pointing out that he wasn’t wrong about being wrong! Imagine the situation if GoI had heeded his ‘advice’ & waited till two weeks back to start vaccine production. pic.twitter.com/u8Ngaw8BrtIn short, when will the BJP Government take responsibility for its manifest failures of policy & management rather than pointing fingers at the Opposition in a vain attempt to divert attention from its own poor performance?The attack comes amid the ongoing tirade between the Centre and the opposition leaders in which the Congress for its 'failure' in managing the crisis, while BJP ministers are accusing the Congress of indulging in vaccine politics.Shashi Tharoor, particularly, has been a target of minister Hardeep Singh Puri's attack as Puri wrote on Twitter, "Some of their leaders like Shashi Tharoor, to name one, are betraying an almost childish stubbornness in admitting their fault about India’s vaccine policy.""After consistently airing doubts on vaccine efficacy, he has made a turnaround on 28 April 2021, but not without pointing out that he wasn’t wrong about being wrong! Imagine the situation if GoI had heeded his ‘advice’ & waited till two weeks back to start vaccine production," Puri tweeted sharing screenshots of Tharoor's earlier tweets.After Bharat Biotech's Covaxin was cleared for restricted emergency use, several Congress leaders including Shashi Tharoor, Jairam Ramesh doubted the efficacy of the vaccine. After the phase 3 trial results of Covaxin were out, Tharoor congratulated the makers and said vaccine supplies should be scaled up to meet the need of the country.Amid the peak of the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic, accentuated by the shortage of medical resources and vaccines, as the Centre is facing severe criticism, BJP ministers, leaders, spokespersons are countering all allegations, one at a time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/did-congress-tweets-create-vaccine-shortage-shashi-tharoor-s-salvo-at-hardeep-singh-puri-101620876142588.html
13-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Delhi wakes up to light drizzle, cloudy sky and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion on Thursday (May 13). Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi wakes up to light drizzle, cloudy sky; mercury touches 26 degree CelsiusThe national capital on Thursday experienced light drizzle and cloudy sky as the mercury touched 26 degrees Celsius. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) had said that several parts of India are likely to face heavy to extreme-heavy rainfall, thunderstorm, and hailstorm in the next couple of days. Read MoreMaharashtra records less than 50k new Covid cases for 4th day in a rowMaharashtra is witnessing a decline in the number of new Covid-19 cases per day, and it recorded less than 50,000 new cases for the fourth consecutive day. On Wednesday, the state recorded 46,781 new cases, along with 816 deaths. The total number of Covid-19 cases in the state has now reached 5,226,710. Read MoreWATCH: Drones used in Chennai to deliver essentials to Covid patientsChennai-based startup is using drones to deliver essential items. The drones are being used to send items to isolated areas in the city. These drones have been delivering food and medicines to covid patients. Watch hereBihar govt to subsidise purchase of ambulances in rural areas under MMGPYBihar state transport department has announced subsidy on purchase of ambulances under Mukhya Mantri Gram Parivahan Yojana (MMGPY) by amending the existing vehicle options listed under the scheme. Officials said this was done to meet the increasing demand for ambulance services in rural areas. Read MoreTesla suspends Bitcoin use. Here's how mining cryptocurrency affects the climateTesla CEO Elon Musk, in what can only be called a sudden "U-turn", announced late on Wednesday that he was reversing course on the decision to use Bitcoin as an acceptable form of payment for the purchase of vehicles. Mining Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies could leave adverse impacts on the environment, some fear. Here's the gist of the argument. Read MoreIndia plans to roll out low-cost EV charging points within two monthsIndia is planning to set up AC charging points for electric vehicles in the next two months which is aimed to bring down the cost of setting up EV charging infrastructure. According to a statement issued by the government on Wednesday, the target price for these AC charging points will start as low as ₹3,500 per unit. Read MoreRahul sir reminded me of little things, my way of playing similar to his: Abhimanyu Easwaran cherishes The Dravid EffectWith the selectors having once again shown faith in Abhimanyu, 25, will get a chance to extend his learnings as he gets set to join the Indian squad once again, for what promises to be a stiff tour of England. Read MoreWhen Shah Rukh Khan revealed why Aryan isn't allowed to be shirtless at home: 'Don’t do something a girl can’t do'Actor Shah Rukh Khan had once opened up on how a man shouldn't be without a shirt in front of his female family members and friends. The actor had also highlighted the importance of equality, adding that his sons will have no extra privileges over girls. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-delhi-wakes-up-to-light-drizzle-cloudy-sky-and-all-the-latest-news-101620875017530.html
13-05-2021||India||Gurmeet Ram Rahim taken to Rohtak PGIMS following 'blood pressure fluctuation'||Jailed Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh took ill Wednesday and was moved to PGIMS Rohtak on the advice of prison doctors, officials said.The 53-year-old chief of the Sirsa-headquartered sect would be kept under the observation of a team of doctors in the government hospital, the officials in the prisons department said.Gurmeet Ram Rahim, who has been lodged in Rohtak's Sunaria jail since 2017 following his conviction for raping his two women disciples, was examined by the doctors at the high-security prison after he complained of blood pressure-related issues, the officials said.After being examined by the jail doctors, he was taken to PGIMS at Rohtak for better observation and management, they said."He had some fluctuation in his blood pressure. On the advice of (prison) doctors, he was taken to PGIMS Rohtak," Haryana's Director General of Prisons Shatrujeet Singh Kapoor told PTI over the phone.Security has been tightened at the hospital, a police official from Rohtak told PTI, adding the sect chief had been kept in a separate ward.The dera chief was in August 2017 sentenced by a special CBI court in Panchkula to 20 years in jail in the rape case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gurmeet-ram-rahim-taken-to-rohtak-pgims-following-blood-pressure-fluctuation-101620874865573.html
13-05-2021||India||Maharashtra records less than 50K new Covid cases for 4th day in a row||Maharashtra is witnessing a decline in the number of new Covid-19 cases per day, and it recorded less than 50,000 new cases for the fourth consecutive day.On Wednesday, the state recorded 46,781 new cases, along with 816 deaths. The total number of Covid-19 cases in the state has now reached 5,226,710.There are currently 546,129 active cases across the state of which Pune has the most, 103,067 cases, followed by Nagpur with 49,345. The death toll has now reached 78,007 with Mumbai leading with 13,972 fatalities, followed by Pune with 10,176.Also Read | How DRDO has pitched in to tackle second wave of Covid-19There were a total of 252,167 tests conducted on Wednesday, while 58,805 people have recovered. The state has been reporting under-50,000 new cases since Sunday when it logged 48,401 fresh cases. On Monday and Tuesday, the state recorded 37,236 and 40,956 new cases, respectively.State health minister Rajesh Tope said that situation in the state is stabilising. “The positivity rate of the virus is coming down. In addition, the growth rate is on the decline at 0.8%, as compared to the national average of 1.4%,” said Tope.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-records-less-than-50k-new-covid-cases-for-4th-day-in-a-row-101620874488634.html
13-05-2021||India||Rain, thunderstorms likely for next 2-3 days over NW India: IMD||Thunderstorms and rain is likely to affect northwest India for the next 2-3 days, according to India Meteorological Department.A Western Disturbance as a trough (area of low pressure) is running and a cyclonic circulation is lying over Punjab and neighbourhood and an east-west trough is running from this cyclonic circulation to sub Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim at lower levels. In addition, there is likely confluence of winds from Arabian Sea and easterly winds at lower levels over northwest India during the next 2-3 days. Under the influence of these systems, fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated thunderstorm, lightning or gusty winds and hailstorm is very likely over western Himalayan region and scattered to fairly widespread rainfall with isolated thunderstorm or lightning or gusty winds over plains of northwest India during the next two days. Isolated heavy rainfall is also likely over Uttarakhand on May 12 and over Punjab and Haryana and Chandigarh on May 13.Also Read | Low depression over Arabian Sea likely to intensify into cyclonic storm by May 16: IMDUnder the influence of above mentioned east-west trough at lower levels and north-south trough over northeast India at middle tropospheric levels, fairly widespread to widespread rainfall or thunderstorm activity is very likely to continue over northeastern states and West Bengal and Sikkim and isolated to scattered rain/thundershower over rest parts of east India during the next 2-3 days and decrease in intensity & distribution thereafter. A low pressure area is very likely to form over southeast Arabian Sea around May 14 morning. It is very likely to concentrate into a depression over Lakshadweep area and adjoining southeast and eastcentral Arabian Sea by May 14.It is very likely to move north-northwestwards and intensify further into a cyclonic storm over eastcentral Arabian Sea around May 16 and continue to move north-northwestwards for some more time with further intensification. Under its influence, heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely at a few places during May 14 to 16 including Lakshadweep, Kerala, and coastal Karnataka. Fishermen are advised not to venture out to the southeast Arabian Sea and adjoining Maldives, Comorin and Lakshadweep area, Kerala coast from morning of May 13 and east central Arabian sea and along and off Karnataka-Goa and Maharashtra and Goa coasts from the night of May 14. Those, who are at sea are advised to return to the coast by the night of May 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-thunderstorms-likely-for-next-2-3-days-over-nw-india-imd-101620873889514.html
13-05-2021||India||Covid-19 hospitals, oxygen generation, 2-DG drug: How DRDO has pitched in to tackle second wave||The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO)'s primary task is to develop state of the art weapons, strategic missiles and ballistic missiles submarines, but the raging pandemic in India has forced the organisation to change its focus from missile test firing to deter adversaries to saving lives of Covid-hit Indians.The organisation has made makeshift hospitals with negative pressure tents to help those need specialised medical care due to Covid-19. The specifications of the hospital infrastructure on the ICU beds, oxygen beds and normal beds was worked out in consultation with the state health authorities.The equipment for Covid-19 care is provided as per specified standards, the DRDO said. The maintenance and upkeep of the equipment is round-the-clock at a time when the spread of Covid-19 has led to lockdown-like conditions in several states, it added.Nine hospitals for Covid-19 have been set up by the DRDO in cities like Delhi, Ahmedabad, Lucknow, Varanasi, Gandhi Nagar, Haldwani, Rishikesh, Jammu and Srinagar. The biggest among them is the Dhanvantri Covid Care Hospital in Gandhi Nagar which has 700 oxygen beds and 200 ICU beds. In Delhi, Sardar Patel Covid Care Centre has 500 ICU beds.Also Read: From Himvir to Corona warrriors, ITBP shows the wayThe DRDO has also ordered the installation of oxygen generation plants at various hospitals across the country. The organisation said that these oxygen plants can generate up to 1,000 litres of oxygen per minute which can cater up to 190 patients. These plants can also charge up to 195 cylinders per day.The research organisation said that first two oxygen plants arrived in Delhi and were operationalised at AIIMS and Ram Manohar Lohia (RML) hospitals in the city on May 6. The next three plants arriving in Delhi will be installed at Lady Hardinge Medical College, Safdarjung hospital and AIIMS in Jhajjar.The DRDO has also taken an initiative to rope in more industry partners for ramping up the production of lower capacity medical oxygen plants for smaller hospitals.To give further boost to oxygen production, DRDO also developed its own oxygen supply system based on SpO2 (oxygen saturation) level. The system - called Oxycare - consists of two variants - manual and automatic. It was developed by the DRDO's Bengaluru-based Defence Bio-Engineering and Electro Medical Laboratory (DEBEL) for soldiers posted at extreme high-altitude areas.The government on Wednesday approved the procurement of 1,50,000 units of the 'Oxycare' system. The DRDO has already transferred the technology to multiple industries in India for large-scale production of the system.Apart from this, the DRDO's laboratory working on safety research has given more than 100, large cylinders of 1,200 litres to hospitals made by the government agency. One of the DRDO's labs has developed an anti-Covid-19 therapeutic application of the drug 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2-DG). Clinical trial results have shown that this molecule helps in faster recovery of hospitalised patients and reduces supplemental oxygen dependence.On May 1, the Drugs Controller General of India’s (DCGI) granted permission for emergency use of the drug as adjunct therapy in moderate to severe Covid-19 patients after successful phase 3 trials. The drug comes in powder form in sachet, which is taken orally by dissolving it in water.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-hospitals-oxygen-generation-2-dg-drug-how-drdo-has-pitched-in-to-tackle-second-wave-101620872205874.html
13-05-2021||India||American India Foundation raises $25 million as Covid-19 aid, highest so far||An Indian-American non-profit body has raised $25 million for Covid-19 assistance to India as the country battles a severe outbreak of the viral disease, its functionaries said."So far, we have ordered and have commitments for 5,500 oxygen concentrators, 2,300 hospital beds, 25 oxygen plants, and 30,000 non-electric ventilators," Nishant Pandey, CEO of the American India Foundation (AIF), told PTI on Wednesday.AIF, which was founded in the aftermath of the Gujarat earthquake at the initiative of the then US president Bill Clinton and the then Prime Minister late Atal Bihari Vajpayee, has raised $25 million so far, making it the highest amount raised by an Indian-American non-profit body.Sewa International USA has raised over $17 million so far."The response has been immense and humbling from AIF’s perspective. We have always worked closely with the Indian-American diaspora but the giving we have seen is beyond that and includes those in the community that was not previously connected to AIF," Pandey said."From $5-500,000, Americans have stepped up for the people in India, further cementing the relationship between these two nations. Corporate America as well has gone far beyond what we have seen in the past," he added.Pandey expressed his gratitude to Americans and the Biden administration for committing heavily to the crisis."Your investment in AIF’s work and the many others working to aid India has made a difference that we are just beginning to see. I would say, keep the faith and keep believing in India. Our countries share a very special relationship and while India needs the US and its people now, the US and its people need India as well," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/american-india-foundation-raises-25-million-as-covid-19-aid-highest-so-far-101620870252240.html
13-05-2021||India||Bharat Biotech, Serum Institute submit Covid vaccine production plans for next 4 months to Centre||The Covid-19 vaccine production of the country will be accelerated in the next coming months as both Pune's Serum Institute of India and Hyderabad's Bharat Biotech are ramping up their monthly production capacity and have submitted their plans for the coming four months to the Centre. In a meeting on Wednesday with seven states/UTs which are lagging behind in terms of vaccinating people against Covid-19, Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan said India's vaccine production is likely to reach eight crore doses in May and 9 crore doses in June.After Maharashtra, Karnataka suspends Covid vaccines for 18-44 from Fridayमैंने राज्यों के स्वास्थ्य मंत्रियों को बताया कि देश में वैक्सीन का उत्पादन मई के महीने में करीब 8 करोड़ होने की संभावना है और जून में यह लगभग 9 करोड़ होगा। इसके उत्पादन को और गति देने के लिए केंद्र सरकार कंपनियों को हर संभव सहयोग दे रही है। @PMOIndia pic.twitter.com/tQNzzqwZ7ZThe pace of vaccination has got stymied in some states like Maharashtra, Karnataka and Delhi as they do not have adequate vaccines to inoculate both the population below 45 and above 45, simultaneously. Since the administration of the second doses is of priority, the states are mulling halting the vaccination of the people between the age group of 18 to 44 years.Serum, Bharat Biotech submit production plan to CentreNudged by the Centre and the Drugs Controller General of India, both the vaccine makers have submitted their production plan for June, July, August and September, news agency PTI reported. According to the plan, Bharat Biotech is all set to raise the production of Covaxin to 3.32 crore doses in July and 7.82 crore in August. Serum Institute aims at increasing the production up to 10 crore doses in August.3 public sector companies to produce CovaxinApart from Hyderabad's Bharat Biotech facility, three public sector companies, including Mumbai's Haffkine Biopharmaceutical Corporation Ltd, Hyderabad's Indian Immunologicals Limited and Bulandshah's Bharat Immunologicals and Biologicals Limited, have been given the nod to produce Covaxin.States are floating global tenders to procure vaccines from abroadRajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Delhi have decided to float global tenders to procure vaccines from abroad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccine-production-to-reach-8-crore-doses-by-may-says-harsh-vardhan-101620870311166.html
13-05-2021||India||Bengal Guv Dhankhar to visit areas affected by post-poll violence||West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar will on Thursday visit the areas affected by post-poll violence. He will go to Cooch Behar district, where four villagers were killed in firing by Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel at Sitalkuchi during polling on April 10.“West Bengal Governor will reach Cooch Behar by BSF Helicopter at 11 am on May 13 to visit post-poll violence affected areas @MamataOfficial. Governor will visit places at Mathabhanga, Sitalkuchi, Sitai and Dinhata. Governor will meet people & media at CB Circuit House," Dhankhar tweeted.The governor also said that on Friday he will go to Assam where Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ministers have claimed that people from north Bengal have taken shelter to escape the violence that erupted after the Bengal assembly election results were announced on May 2.“Governor WB Jagdeep Dhankhar will be visiting Ranpagli & Srirampur camps in Assam where due to post poll retributive violence @MamataOfficial some people of WB had taken refuge for safety. Governor Dhankhar will be reaching Ranpagli Assam at 9.45 am by BSF Helicopter,” Dhankhar tweeted.Meanwhile, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has accused Dhankhar of violating norms and planning to visit Cooch Behar. She wrote a letter to the governor, citing rules and provisions.“I find from social media that you are unilaterally proceeding to the district of Cooch Behar on 13-5-2021 and, sadly, I find that to be violative of the long-standing norms as evolved over several decades. I, therefore, would expect that you will kindly follow the well-established norms of protocol, as stated above and desist from abrupt decisions with regard to field visits,” the letter read.Responding to Banerjee's letter, Dhankhar tweeted, "In response @MamataOfficial urged her to revisit her stance & commit to constitution that by oath she is obligated to uphold & follow. This is time to address issues being faced by people in deep distress. Assured her of my fullest cooperation within constitutional parameters."The Trinamool Congress (TMC) got 213 seats against 77 by the BJP. However, in Cooch Behar and other districts of north Bengal region, the BJP bagged 30 of the 54 seat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-guv-dhankhar-to-visit-areas-affected-by-post-poll-violence-101620865908136.html
13-05-2021||India||Parliament panel asks govt to ramp up production of doses in March||A parliamentary standing committee, headed by Congress MP Jairam Ramesh, recommended in March that the central government “ramp up production of the two approved vaccines” — Covaxin and Covishield — and ensure their availability to a wider population.The 31-member panel on science and technology, environment, forests and climate change, which comprises 14 members from the Bharatiya Janata Party, tabled the report in Parliament on March 8.Noting the efforts of the Department of Biotechnology towards ensuring the timely development the vaccine, the panel recommended it to strengthen “on its part, the efforts for ramping up the production capacity of the two approved vaccines as well as provide all research, laboratory infrastructure and capacity building support to the other vaccine candidates in the pipeline, in order to ensure the availability of a safe, affordable, and efficacious vaccine to the wider population as soon as possible”.Asked about the recommendations , Ramesh said: “India needs around 1.9 billion doses to fully vaccinate all adults. It was clear to the Standing Committee from the data presented by the government that the current production capacity is inadequate to meet that demand. That’s why we recommended that the production capacity must be ramped up as soon as possible. Alas, this wasn’t done, and now we are facing a massive vaccine shortage,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-panel-asks-govt-to-ramp-up-production-of-doses-in-march-101620865454076.html
13-05-2021||India||Fresh guidelines for Assam to curb Covid-19 spread: Check details here||In an attempt to curb the Covid-19 outbreak in the state, Assam will have more restrictions and strict containment measures from Thursday. The decision was taken by newly-formed Himanta Biswa Sarma government.In a tweet, Sarma said, “To contain #Covid cases, more restrictions & containment measures would be put in place from May 13, 2021. Detailed SOP will be issued on Wednesday. In case restrictions have to continue for more than a fortnight, Govt will consider financial relief package for weaker sections.”Assam on Tuesday recorded 6,258 fresh Covid-19 positive cases and 85 deaths. The state has nearly 40,000 active coronavirus cases.Here are the fresh guidelines for Assam:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fresh-guidelines-for-assam-to-curb-covid-19-spread-check-details-here-101620863872121.html
13-05-2021||India||Footprint of B.1.617 now spreads to 44 countries||Three lineages of a variant of the SARS-Cov-2 virus first seen in India now account for 66% of all samples tested in the most recent 45 days, according to data from India submitted to a global repository (GISAID) even as other data submitted to the same repository indicates that the variant has now spread to several parts of the world with a rapid increase in prevalence in several regions.The data adds to evidence that the variant could be more infectious, pointing to the public health challenge across the world, but in India, especially, where many scientists and epidemiologists believe that variants such as this one, named B.1.617, may be behind the surging second wave of the coronavirus disease pandemic that has seen the country add almost 10 million cases of Covid-19 in the past month, with the last five being added in two weeks.The World Health Organization (WHO) said in its weekly Covid-19 epidemiology update that the B.1.617 variant with its three sub-lineages has been found in 44 countries.While studies on the extent of protection offering by existing vaccines against the variant continue, preliminary research in India suggests that vaccinations using the two vaccines widely used in the country do continue to protect even those infected by the variant against severe illness and death.The variant’s rapid rise has now triggered alarm in several countries, including the UK which has found it to be responsible for the second highest number of infections and where experts have urged the government to rethink the May 17 lifting of curbs.B.1.617 -- first detected in India last October and described by Indian officials in late March by the misnomer “double mutant” -- was classified as a variant of concern (VOC) globally by WHO on Monday, and a particular sub-lineage – the B.1.617.2 – was similarly flagged by authorities in the UK last week.Also Read | Don’t be unrealistic on Covid-19 jabs, Centre tells states“In consultation with the WHO Sars-CoV-2 Virus Evolution Working Group, WHO has determined that viruses within the lineage B.1.617 have been characterised as a VOC,” the world body explained in its Covid-19 Weekly Epidemiological Update released on Wednesday. WHO said its decision was based on two reasons: “B.1.617 sub-lineages appear to have higher rates of transmission, including observed rapid increases in prevalence in multiple countries (moderate evidence available for B.1.617.1 and B.1.617.2)” and “preliminary evidence suggests potential reduced effectiveness of Bamlanivimab, a monoclonal antibody used for Covid-19 treatment, and potentially slightly reduced susceptibility to neutralisation antibodies (limited evidence available for B.1.617.1).”Wider Indian spreadAccording to an analysis of genomic data from India to the GISAID global repository, the B.1.617.1 and B.1.617.2 account for two-thirds of the samples uploaded in the last 45 days – with the latter’s rise particularly stark.The outbreak.info analysis estimates B.1.617.2 may have grown in prevalence from 9% of cases at the end of March to over 80% at the end of April, although the assessment is dependent on the samples submitted to GISAID and is unlikely to be a random selection.Also Read | States can procure only 20 million Covid-19 jabs for 18+ in MayGujarat, Delhi, Bihar and Chhattisgarh are the top states where the proportion of B.1.617.2 samples is high, although the number of samples sequenced varies significantly between states. Uttar Pradesh, the largest state by population, has sequenced only 83 samples since the start of the pandemic, while Maharashtra has done over 3,300.Experts have flagged the low genome sequencing in India, a problem also recognised in the WHO report: “Approximately 0.1% of positive samples in India have been sequenced and uploaded to GISAID to identify Sars-CoV-2 variants,” the report released on Wednesday said.Global concernGlobally, there are now four VOCs – B.1.617, B.1.1.7 (first seen in the UK), B.1.351 (first recorded in South Africa) and P.1 (first seen in Brazil). Of these, the variant from UK demonstrated a transmission advantage unlike any Sars-Cov-2 version before, triggering new waves of infection where it was first seen and in several other European nations.Experts say that the India-linked variant now appears to be outcompeting it in epidemiological terms, which could indicate it to have an evolutionary advantage.“Tracking frequencies over time in sequence data shared to @gisaid shows a continued increase in B.1.617, while recent weeks have shown a decline in B.1.1.7,” said Trevor Bedford, a scientist at the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, in a series of tweets analysing the genomic clues.“The observed rapid growth of this (sub)-lineage in India and elsewhere would suggest that this virus is potentially highly transmissible. If faster growth than B.1.1.7 in India and in the UK is conclusive, it would suggest that this lineage will spread widely,” he added.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageChristina Pagel, director of the clinical operational research unit at University College London, said the rise in B.1.617.2 cases was concerning enough to delay the next stage of the UK’s reopening roadmap.“Under ‘current restrictions’, within a context of [very] infectious B117 (”Kent” variant) and ‘high population immunity’ B.1.617.2 seems to be spreading quickly. Numbers still low(ish) but for how much longer? What will happen after 17th May when so much more opens?” she said in a tweet on May 10, urging the government to step-up surveillance.Mutation under lensA variant of a Sars-Cov-2 typically has multiple changes in its genome – or mutations – which change how the virus can behave. The B.1.617 lineage is split into three -- B.1.617.1, B.1.617.2 and B.1.617.3 -- that largely have the same set of mutations, except for some small variations.Among these, two are common: L452R and P681R (these letters mean the amino acid at site 452 changed from leucine to arginine and at site 681 from proline to arginine). Except for B.1.617.2, the other two variants also have the E484Q mutation.“...Mutations in these variants may result in increased ACE2 binding and rate of S1-S2 cleavage resulting in better transmissibility, and possibly capacity to escape binding and neutralization by some monoclonal antibodies. In a preliminary study on hamsters, infection with B.1.617.1 resulted in increased body weight loss, higher viral load in lungs and pronounced lung lesions as compared to B.1 variants (D614G),” WHO said.Several studies released by scientists in recent days have shown that some of B.1.617 family of the virus are more transmissible, lead to more severe disease, and be somewhat resistant to some lab-grown antibodies, but it isn’t clear yet if they can make vaccines or immunity from a past infection redundant to any significant degree.In one of the studies, published late on Sunday, on Biorxiv, the researchers zeroed in on the P681R, which has also been seen in the variant first spotted in UK. “We find that P681R is associated with enhanced capacity to induce cell-cell fusion and syncitia formation, and that P681R alone confers this ability on the B.1.617.1 spike with RBD mutations L452R and E484Q ,” said the team of researchers led by scientists from Cambridge.Syncitia is a phenomenon where multiple cells fuse to create what are known as giant cells. The scientists explained that the P681R mutation occurs at a location of the virus that takes the shape of a spike to first latch onto human cells, before it splits – or cleaves – in order to enter the cell. This site is known as the polybasic cleavage site (PCBS). “Virus infectivity and fusogenicity mediated by the PBCS is a key determinant of pathogenicity and transmissibility and there are indications that giant cells/syncitia formation are associated with fatal disease,” the authors said.Among the assessments they carried out was the case analysis of 33 staff members of a Delhi health facility who were infected by the coronavirus after having been vaccinated, most of whom had contracted the new variant, although none developed severe symptoms.“The loss of neutralisation of B.1.617 (by vaccinated serum) has likely contributed to an epidemic wave in India where background infection to the Wuhan-1 D614G in 2020 was between 20-50%,” said the authors in the study, which is yet to be peer reviewed.“What we found was a reduction in the ability of the antibodies to neutralise this variant, but they weren’t ineffective. There are infections reported in vaccinated individuals but all vaccines protect against severe disease,” said Dr Anurag Agarwal, one of the authors of the paper and director of Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology. “Breakthroughs are being seen with both (all) vaccines though. Not rare anymore, clearly. In vast majority, but not all, disease is mild,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/footprint-of-b-1-617-now-spreads-to-44-countries-101620860017652.html
13-05-2021||India||Don’t be unrealistic on Covid-19 jabs, Centre tells states||States should not have any unrealistic and impractical expectations when it comes to coronavirus vaccines, especially with the limited supplies currently, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said on Wednesday as he reviewed the immunisation progress with health ministers of eight states.The Union government has made it mandatory for vaccine makers in India – at present, the two shots being used widely are both made in India – to keep 50% of their doses for the central supply, while the remaining will be evenly split between private procurers and state governments.The health minister said this was done to ensure the equitable distribution of vaccines across the country and to make sure that people who needed second doses were not left stranded. The government’s policy has been criticised by several sates who have said that they are not receiving enough doses to vaccinate people in the 18-44 age group, inoculation for which began on May 1.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageHe said that the country’s total vaccine production capacity in the month of May was going to touch about 80 million doses, which was expected to go up to about 90 million doses by June. Vardhan said the central government was making all efforts to further ramp up vaccine production in the country in the coming weeks.“There is a limit to the number of Covid-19 vaccine doses available at a particular time, and in a particular month. Keeping that limit in mind, scientifically, and systematically, the vaccine doses are divided, and related information is duly shared with the states. So, all states know how many vaccine doses are available to them at a particular time, and how much is there in the pipeline. Therefore, I specially request you all to understand the gravity and seriousness of the issue, and don’t have any unrealistic or impractical expectations,” the health minister said.“We should also ensure that there is rational and judicious use of vaccines without any wastage,” he added.“Also, the vaccines that are being manufactured outside India, especially those that received USFDA and other major regulatory approvals, and WHO approval, these vaccines have also been given easier provision for getting emergency use authorisation. To win the Covid-19 battle in the country, a big weapon was added into the test, track, and treat list, and that is Covid-19 vaccination, which Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched on January 16...,” he said during the review.Also Read | States can procure only 20 million Covid-19 jabs for 18+ in MayWhile the health minister acknowledged that India was the fastest country globally to reach the landmark of 170 million doses in 114 days, he also pointed out that out of these, the second dose has been administered to only to close to 40 million. The first dose has so far been administered to about 131 million beneficiaries.“Hence it is very important that we first focus more on second dose vaccinations. States should not lose sight of those who are to get the second dose of COVID vaccine: 70% at minimum ought to be allocated to meet the requirement of second dose, while 30% ought to be reserved for the first dose.” Dr Harsh Vardhan also urged states to ensure that the healthcare workers and frontline workers are fully vaccinated, as they form the vulnerable categories,” he said.The states that participated in the review were Uttarakhand, Haryana, Punjab, Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha and Telangana, along with the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir.The health minister also highlighted the trajectory of Covid-19 in these states, and how the rising cases were putting stress on the medical infrastructure.“Although in the last 24 hours, 3.48 lakh new cases were registered, a net decline of 11,122 cases is recorded in the active caseload. This is the second consecutive day of decline in the active cases,” he said, and emphasised upon the continued need to follow Covid-19-appropriate behavior.He also said there should also be stringent focus on containment measures for addressing the present surge, especially creating micro-containment zones to track and isolate cases.According to the director, National Centre for Disease Control, Dr SK Singh, the apparent disease shift towards younger population was driven by the fact that higher age groups have been vaccinated in considerable proportion by now.“There should be ramp up of testing and vaccination in peri-urban areas as the spread is now going to peri-urban and rural places. Irrespective of the Covid-19 variants, measures for preparedness and protection remain the same,” Dr Singh said.Experts also said it could be a reason, even though the pattern needs to be further analysed in detail. “Younger people are now apparently getting infected more because a greater proportion of young people are susceptible (not infected so far), and not vaccinated,” said Dr Giridhara R Babu, head, epidemiology, Indian Institute of Public Health.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-be-unrealistic-on-covid-19-jabs-centre-tells-states-101620859453531.html
13-05-2021||India||UK variant of Covid-19 detected in samples sent from Rajasthan for genome sequencing||Rajasthan health minister Raghu Sharma on Wednesday said the UK strain of Covid-19 has been found in a few samples sent from Rajasthan for genome sequencing. The report was received two days ago.“We had sent samples for genome sequencing. In the samples, the UK strain was found,” he said. On the directions given by chief minister Ashok Gehlot, officials have started the process of setting up genome sequencing facilities at the SMS Medical College in Jaipur. The facility will be developed soon, he said. Sharma said genome sequencing facility is there at 10 places in the country, which are under the Central government and all states submit the samples there. “Once we know about the strain and other details, the line of treatment may be updated accordingly,” he added. On the shortage of vaccines, he said there is approximately 2.9 crore population in the 45 plus category, including 10% wastage of vaccine, the state needs about 4.5 crore doses. Till date, the Centre has provided 1.5 crore doses and 3 crore more are required. “We need 7 crore doses to vaccinate the 18 plus population. We have ordered 3.75 crore vaccines from the Serum Institute of India but the supply has not been made on time then how can the vaccination be done. Covaxin is expensive then also the state has ordered 2.5 lakh vaccines to continue the inoculation drive,” he said. He informed that in the wake of the third wave, which might affect children, the CM has directed to ensure centralized oxygen system through the pipeline in all hospitals meant for children across the state. All hospitals will be made fully equipped. Sharma said in Rajasthan, the number of active Covid-19 cases has reached 2.05 lakh while a total of 5994 Covid-19 patients have died so far. The daily active cases are varying between 15,000-18,000, and the death figures are also fluctuating between 150-165, which is a serious concern. “The infection rate is above 8%, we are among the top five states where active cases have crossed 2 lakh. The government is conducting a door-to-door survey and distributing medicines - till date 6 lakh ILI cases have been identified,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-variant-of-covid-19-detected-in-samples-sent-from-rajasthan-for-genome-sequencing-101620847786356.html
13-05-2021||India||‘Indian variant’ term not linked with B.1.617: Govt||The Centre said on Wednesday the World Health Organization (WHO) has not associated the term “Indian variant” with B.1.617, which has now been classified as a “variant of concern” by the global body.The World Health Organziation on Monday said the coronavirus variant first identified in India last year was being classified as a variant of global concern, with some preliminary studies showing that it spreads more easily. The B.1.617 variant is the fourth variant to be designated as being of global concern and requiring heightened tracking and analysis. The others are those first detected in the US, South Africa and Brazil.“Several media reports have covered the news of World Health Organisation (WHO) classifying B.1.617 as variant of global concern. Some of these reports have termed the B.1.617 variant of the coronavirus as an ‘Indian Variant’. These media reports are without any basis, and unfounded,” a statement by the Press Information Bureau said.“This is to clarify that WHO has not associated the term ‘Indian Variant’ with the B.1.617 variant of the coronavirus in its 32-page document. In fact, the word ‘Indian’ has not been used in its report on the matter,” the government’s statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-variant-term-not-linked-with-b-1-617-govt-101620847545696.html
13-05-2021||India||Bodies found in Buxar not from state, says Bihar; toll reaches 76||Bihar said on Friday that bodies seen floating in the Ganga in Buxar district were not from the state as five more corpses were fished out of the river in the same spot, taking the toll to 76.Bihar water resources minister Sanjay Kumar Jha said the state had no tradition of consigning bodies in rivers and said a probe revealed the corpses were four to five days old. “The way dozens of corpses were found near Bihar’s borders is inhuman and an insult of Ganga…the bodies have come from far away,” he said, asking the central government to investigate the incident.His comments came a day after the Union government said it had taken serious note of the issue and the National Mission for Clean Ganga wrote to all states, asking them to prohibit dumping of bodies in the river.In Buxar, Chausa block development officer Ashok Kumar said big fishing nets were used at Mahadeva ghat Chausa village, where bodies were first spotted three days ago. He said the bodies seemed to have come from direction of UP. The Buxar administration has put big fishing nets near Chausa to prevent the bodies being washed further downstream.“A team of doctors have also been called for autopsy of the bodies. Only after postmortem, the last rites of dead bodies are being done,” said Buxar sadar sub-divisional officer KK Upadhyay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bodies-found-in-buxar-not-from-state-says-bihar-toll-reaches-76-101620847185588.html
13-05-2021||India||HC: Shift vaccine centres from hospitals to avoid crowding||Chennai: The Madras High Court on Wednesday asked the state government to remove the Covid-19 vaccination centres from hospitals and shift them to other locations to prevent crowding and spread of the infection.A bench comprising of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy made these observations while hearing in the suo motu case for the court to monitor preparedness of Covid-19 second wave in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. “In order to reduce the fear, stress and crowding among the people, we are asking to shift the vaccination centres from the hospital and set up at other places of public convenience,” said the bench adding that special steps to vaccinate people with disabilities should be considered. The government submitted a status report that Tamil Nadu is experiencing a shortage in vaccines. The state has received a total of 76.99 lakh vaccine doses to be used for those above 45 years of age out of which 65.88 lakh doses has been utilised. For the age group of 18-44, the Centre allocated 13.85 lakh doses for which the state is permitted to place orders and an advance of payment has been made. 5.16 lakh doses have come in but the remaining 8.68 lakh doses are yet to be received. The state has more than 3,000 vaccination sites. The court had asked if Tamil Nadu, like other states, plans to issue a global tender. Later in the day, the government announced that it will procure vaccines from international markets due to insufficiency. The state’s newly appointed Advocate General (AG) R Shunmughasundaram also submitted that 250,000 vials of Remdesivir have been received. The minimum requirement is 20,000 vials per day, however, the allocation is only 7,000 vials per day. He added that measures are also being adopted to increase the oxygen supply and other drugs like Remdesivir.During the hearing, the Additional Solicitor General R Sankaranarayanan submitted that the Central government has increased the allocation of oxygen to the state from 419 tonnes a day to 519 tonnes a day.However, the bench pointed out the state’s concern that 800 MT of oxygen would be required on a daily basis soon given the rising number of active cases. In the earlier two hearings the court had asked the state to consider a plan B like requesting DRDO to set up an oxygen facility like in New Delhi to which the ASG on Wednesday informed that it was done by request sent to the PM Cares. The bench asked the AG to make a similar approach.The case was adjourned to Thursday for the central and state to file their submissions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-shift-vaccine-centres-from-hospitals-to-avoid-crowding-101620847006866.html
13-05-2021||India||Stalin appoints new officers to key administrative positions||Chennai: M K Stalin has appointed officers with a good track record to key administrative positions after he took oath as Tamil Nadu chief minister last week. Anti-corruption activists and political analysts are of the opinion that, both new DMK loyalists and experienced officers from the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) regime have been retained to ensure a good set of hands are at the helm during a pandemic.A look at five personnel in key postings- 1. P Kandasamy, Director, Directorate of Vigilance and anti-Corruption (DVAC)Kandasamy prefers to remain low-key perhaps why didn’t draw a lot of attention until social media recalled that he was in the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) team that arrested present Union home minister Amit Shah, during his tenure as a minister in Gujarat in 2010, for his alleged involvement in the Sohrabuddin encounter case. At that time Kandasamy was deputed to the CBI for five years as the CBI deputy inspector general of police, Chennai and CBI joint director, Mumbai.Shah was later discharged. Kandasamy who is of the rank of a DGP and his appointment to head the DVAC comes at a time when the DMK has promised to try all charges of corruption under the outgoing AIADMK government headed by Edappadi K Palaniswami. The DMK, in its election manifesto, had promised to constitute a specialcourt to try cases against AIADMK ministers accused of graft. A 1989 batch officer, Kandasamy holds a Master’s degree in public policy from University of California, Berkeley, and is presently pursuing a part time PhD in the department of management studies at IIT-Madras. He has served in various districts, including Madurai, as police commissioner.Before his transfer to this post, he was special director general of police, administration. He won the President of India Police Medal for meritorious service in 2006 and the Tamil Nadu chief minister’s medal for excellence in public service in 2019 under the AIADMK regime. 2. R Shunmugasundaram, Advocate General, Tamil NaduA leading criminal lawyer, Shunmugasundaram was a DMK Rajya Sabha member from 2002-2008. He is said to be the chief architect in the high-profile disproportionate assets (DA) case in which the Supreme Court found late former chief minister J Jayalalithaa, her close aide V K Sasikala and two others guilty. “It is a challenging battle when you prosecute a chief minister who came back to power and stalled the case,” says Shunmugasundaram. “In the history of the country, this is the only state and party that has pursued a case where a former dispensation was prosecuted. Normally such steps aren’t taken because it may come back to you. I had the privilege of being a lawyer in this case.” Shanmugasundaram was attacked at his Chennai residence on May 30, 1995, while preparing to file a case of corruption against Jayalalithaa. “But that never stopped me.” A designated senior advocate, Shunmugasundaram served as the state public prosecutor from 1996 to 2001 in the Madras high court. During this he was appointed as amicus curiae in the London hotel case (one of the DA cases filed) against Jayalalithaa in which Sasikala’s nephew T T V Dinakaran was another accused. The case was, however, withdrawn later. He was appointed as a counsel for Tamil Nadu before the Justice M C Jain Commission of Inquiry to assist the probe into the assassination of former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi. His first appearance as Tamil Nadu’s Advocate General was on Monday before the first bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy, who are hearing suo motu case on the Covid-19 management in the state. His association with the DMK goes back to 1992 when he appeared for G Vaiko’s (who was with DMK at that time) brother and Subbulakshmi Jagadeesan (who was defeated this election) in the sensational Padmanabha murder case. He also appeared for Karunanidhi’s family members- Kanimozhi and later Dayalu Ammal in the 2G case. In 2001, Murasoli Maran wanted him to assist with the party’s legal matters in the Rajya Sabha, he said. Shanmugasundaram was head of the DMK’s legal wing until he was posted as AG.3. Gagandeep Singh Bedi, Commissioner, Greater Chennai CorporationBedi was agriculture secretary in the previous AIADMK government and is being retained by the DMK as he is known to be a clean hand and also a disaster management expert. “Bedi’s report on illegal sand mining in Tamil Nadu is instrumental till date with Jayalalithaa banning beach sand mining and subsequent court orders on the issue,” Jayaram Venkatesan, founder of anti-corruption movement, Arappor Iyakkam, said. A 1993 batch officer, Bedi had initially served as commissionerof Madurai corporation (1999 to 2001) and district collector of Kanyakumari and Cuddalore in (2001 to 2007).He played a key role in rescue and rehabilitation work after the 2004 tsunami caused havoc in coastal Cuddalore. Former American president Bill Clinton even spent a day with him to understand the relief work. Bedi also handled major floods in 2005 and 2015 and cyclonesin the sensitive districts of Cuddalore, Nagapattinam and Kanyakumari. As civic chief of Chennai, which has the highest caseload of Covid-19 in the state, Bedi, after taking over, said, “My immediate focus is to break the chain, reduce positivity rate and increase oxygen beds.” Bedi has planned to introduce a 100-bed facility with oxygen concentrators in each of the three regions in Chennai and has also brought about changes such as providing a medicine kit to anyone who takes an RT-PCR test to ensure they do not have to wait to be treated until the test results arrive.4. Shilpa Prabhakar, head, CM in your Constituency‘CM in your constituency’ is a new department created by Stalin to resolve public grievances within 100 days of forming the government - a promise he made during his poll campaign ‘Stalin in your constituency’. Prabhakar has been handed over the keys of the box in which the petitions, that were collected during the poll campaign, were kept locked and sealed till the beginning of the new government. Prabhakar was deputy commissioner for education in the Greater Chennai Corporation where she roped in NGOs to offer corporation students more learning and extracurricular activities. In 2019, she admitted her child in a government-run anganwadi in Tirunelveli where she was posted as a district collector. She also drew public attention when she climbed atop 40 and 80-feet water tanks to check its cleanliness.5. V Irai Anbu, chief secretary, Tamil NaduA seasoned IAS officer and writer, who a day ago, instructed government officials not to buy books written by him and present them to him at events. Anbu also warned his officials to deduct money from their salary if they used public funds for this purpose, and deposit them into a government account. The chief secretary also wrote to the School Education Department, asking officials not to buy his books till he holds the post.Political observers believe that his integrity caused him to be sidelined with unimportant portfolios earlier. “ “All officers appointed are efficient and one of the reasons for Irai Anbu’s appointment could be to have a more cordial relationship with the Prime Minister’s Office,” said political commentator Maalan Narayanan.Anbu received the Si Pa Aditanar Literary Award for the year 2017 from Prime Minister Narendra Modi. His brother, V Thiruppugazh, has a closer connection with Modi. Thiruppugazh, a 1995 batch officer of the Gujarat cadre, had served as Modi’s secretary in 2005-06 when the latter served as Gujarat chief minister. Thiruppugazh served in the Modi administration at the Centre too and was appointed as Advisor in the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) in 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stalin-appoints-new-officers-to-key-administrative-positions-101620847006232.html
13-05-2021||India||Spate of cloudburst like events cause damage on Char Dham project route||This year’s Char Dham yatra, a pilgrimmage to the four holy shrines in the state of Uttarakhand, may have been scaled down to a symbolic event on account of the pandemic, but recent meteorological events highlight the dangers facing the ongoing project to widen the road connecting the four shrines, the Char Dham highway.An analysis by India Meteorological Department concludes that a cloudburst like event occurred in the upper reaches of Devprayag in Tehri Garhwal district on Tuesday evening leading to a sudden rise in water flow in a seasonal rivulet, Gadera. Heavy flow of water in the rivulet damaged buildings, other infrastructure and took debris up to Alaknanda.Environmentalists opposed to the Char Dham project, which envisages the widening of the Char Dham highway -- the Supreme Court will hear a case related to this on May 13 -- fear that if a cloudburst were to occur in the midst of the roadwork, it could prove disastrous for the workers, and damage the hills even more.A bench comprising Justice Vineet Saran and Justice Dinesh Maheshwari posted the matter for hearing while observing that issue of widening of roads leading to the China border is of national importance.“Our data indicates about 25 mm rain in an hour was recorded at Devprayag. If you go by the exact definition of cloudburst, it’s at least 10 cm rain received in an hour. But we have evidence that even 3 to 5 cm rain in an hour can trigger severe mudslides and landslides because soil is very loose in this region. We suspect that is what has happened in Devprayag,” said M Mohapatra, director general, IMD.According to IMD, if 10 cm rainfall is received at a station in one hour, the rain event is termed as cloud burst. It is very difficult to predict the cloud bursts due to its very small scale in space and time.Such meteorological events have become common in Uttarakhand.Another internal IMD report based on local media reports said a cloud burst type event was reported at Tehri, Uttarkashi, Rudraprayag and Chamoli districts in early hours of May 3. This damaged several roads and bridges. Some shops at Binsar in Chamoli district were buried under debris. On the afternoon of May 5, “cloudburst like impact” and hailstorm were reported from Chaukhutia, Almora. Central Water Commission (CWC) data showed water level at Naula in Ramganga river rose by 78 cm due to heavy rain.“The rain recorded on Tuesday is not very heavy. They are mostly in the range of 25 to 35 mm. During the pre-monsoon season the soil is very loose and there are high chances of landslides even when there is not much rain. We are trying to understand why such heavy damage took place. There are two radars also in Uttarakhand and we are getting data from there too,” said M Rajeevan, secretary, ministry of earth sciences.“There have been several incidents of cloud bursts and heavy rain in April and May which have caused extensive damage on the Char Dham yatra route. Any hill cutting for road construction is not only not advisable but also not possible in the midst of such natural hazards,” said Mallika Bhanot of Ganga Ahvaan, a Uttarakhand based NGO.“This is the sixth heavy rainfall incident in the pre-monsoon season that has caused damage to roads and property in Uttarakhand. If Char Dham road widening work continues through pre-monsoon and monsoon season it will aggravate risks of landslides and other disasters,” said D P Dobhal, a former glaciologist at Dehradun-based Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology.IMD’s analysis also cites research by IMD scientists based on long-term data of rainfall, landslide and flash floods that rainfall of 3-5 cm per hour in the steep slope mountainous regions of Himalayas can cause flash floods, landslides, debri flows, flash floods with huge damages to properties and human losses irrespective of rainfall amount.More rain is expected over the Western Himalayan region. A western disturbance as a trough (low pressure area) is impacting the region. A cyclonic circulation is lying over Punjab and neighbourhood and an east-west trough is running from this cyclonic circulation to Sub Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim at lower levels.In September , the Supreme Court directed the width of the Char Dham road be 5.5 metre based on a minority report of a 26-member High Powered Committee (HPC). This width was fixed as per a 2018 notification issued by the Ministry of Road, Transport and Highways (MoRTH). Later, the ministry amended its notification and filed an application in the top court against its September 8, 2020 order. The Ministry of Defence too filed a separate application in December last year supporting MoRTH. It requested the court to allow the road width to be increased to 7 metres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imdwarns-of-dangers-to-char-dham-project-101620846946173.html
13-05-2021||India||10-day lockdown begins in Telangana, police seal inter-state borders||Hyderabad: The 10-day lockdown imposed by the Telangana government to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the state began on Wednesday with the police authorities strictly enforcing the restrictions after a four-hour relaxation. The Telangana police sealed all the inter-state borders by erecting check posts. Except ambulance services carrying critically-ill patients from neighbouring states to Hyderabad were allowed, as per the directions of the state high court. Director-General of Police M Mahendar Reddy said all the others from the neighbouring states would be allowed only after showing the e-passes given by their governments for emergency travel. Those from Telangana, travelling to other states should also obtain an e-pass issued by the police department, he said. Similarly, those who have to travel to other districts within the state and also for those travelling from one place to another in the limits of Hyderabad, Cyberabad and Rachakonda police commissionerates during the lockdown hours should also apply for e-pass online. “Passengers travelling by flights and trains are also allowed to travel, provided they carry the valid tickets,” he said. With the state government suspending operation of inter-state bus and other transport services, including those by private operators, all the state-run Road Transport Corporation buses were cancelled. Many people who were not aware of the orders, rushed to the bus and railway stations to leave for their native places but had to return disappointed. The DGP said all arrangements had been made across the state to implement the 20-hour lockdown. Instructions had been issued to all commissioners and superintendents of police to ensure strict enforcement of lockdown. “Stringent punishment will be given to those who violate the lockdown rules,” he said. In Hyderabad and all the major towns in Telangana, the police strictly forced all the shops and business establishments to down their shutters before the restrictions came into force. At the historic Charminar, which witnessed mad crowds for shopping for Eid-ul-Fitr (Ramzan) till Tuesday night, roads wore a deserted look within minutes of the lockdown coming into force from 10 am. Since it was the first day of the lockdown, the police allowed the people to rush back to their homes after buying essentials for 15-20 minutes after the lockdown came into force. The police personnel conducted a flag march to enforce the restrictions. Hyderabad Police Commissioner Anjani Kumar, who supervised the lockdown at Charminar, told reporters that 180 check posts were set up in the city to check the movement of vehicles. Cyberabad Police Commissioner V C Sajjanar and Rachakonda Police Commissioner Mahesh Bahgwath also personally monitored the situation in their respective police commissionerates. Earlier in the day, there were traffic jams in several areas, as people came on the roads in large numbers to purchase essential commodities. There were long queues at supermarkets, vegetable markets, medical shops and even at the wine shops as early as 6.30 am. While restaurants remained closed, some roadside eateries and mobile canteens make a brisk business.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10day-lockdown-begins-in-telangana-police-seal-inter-state-borders-101620846885587.html
13-05-2021||India||Amid surge, a village in Kerala fiercely guards against the pandemic||Thiruvananthapuram: At a time when the pandemic is fast spreading within the rural areas of the country; there is a small tribal hamlet in Idukki that is fiercely resisting the virus. Not a single Covid-19 case has been reported from Edamalakudi in Idukki district in last one and a half years. According to villagers, enough hard work, surveillance and collective activities are behind this feat. The Covid guidelines, such as physical distancing, hand hygine, proper masking and travel restrictions are in place just as any other part of the country, except that people of this tribal village with a population of 2,250 enforce them strictly and fines are heavy for those who flout the rules. Situated around 40 kms away from Munnar, villagers keep a 24x7 vigil and visitors if any, even if they are government servants, have to carry an RT-PCR test report taken 48 hours ago. The majority of the populace in this village are from the Muduva tribe. Inspired by Edamalakudi’s feat; many tribal hamlets are planning to replicate its self-lockdown mode to contain the surge. This is happening at a time when in more than 80 local bodies in the state, the test positivity rate (TPR) is above 50% in three panchayats in Thirssur and Ernakulam it is above 75 %. “It is a model worth emulating for others. In the hamlet ‘Nattukoottam’ (a collective of elders and others) is powerful. Every week two persons from the village go out to fetch essentials and they will have to be quarantined for two weeks,” said Devikulam sub-collector S Premkrishanan. Perched on a hilly terrain there is no direct road connectivity to the village and it is more or less self-sufficient and majority of the people work in forest and tribal departments in nearby areas. “Many such tribal hamlets are imposing self-lockdown to get away from the surge. Situated in remote areas, people here realise the gravity if the virus spread to their areas. It is good they are coming out with their own mechanism to contain it,” said M J Babu, a senior journalist hailing from Munnar. True, many villages in Idukki and Wayanad districts have barred outsiders and imposed self-lockdown days before the government enforced it on May 8. Meanwhile, there is no let up in pandemic woes as the state on Wednesday reported 43,529 cases with a test positivity rate of 29.75 %, highest since the outbreak began. It also reported 95 deaths taking total fatalities to 6,053, while the active caseload is 4,32,789. What is really disturbing is that many youngsters are also falling prey to the virus these days. Among the 95 casualties, 20 are below 45 years emphasising the urgent need to vaccinate the 18-44 age group. “We have started vaccinating the 18-44 age group also. Due to shortage, priority will be given to people who interact with public more like delivery boys, drivers, daily-wage earners and others. We have given order for 10 million doses but got only 5,00,000,” said chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-surge-a-village-in-kerala-fiercely-guards-against-the-pandemic-101620846825542.html
13-05-2021||India||Grief shrouds family of woman killed in Israel||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday said the body of Soumya Santosh (32) who was killed in a rocket attack in Israel on Tuesday will be brought to the country soon. He said the state government was in touch with the external affairs ministry and Israeli embassy in Delhi.32-year-old Soumya was killed in a rocket attack by Palestinian militants from Gaza, according to officials. Soumya, who belonged to Kerala’s Idukki district, worked as a caregiver attending to an old woman at a house in the southern Israeli coastal city of Ashkelon. Ashkelon, which borders the Gaza Strip, has come under a massive fire from the Palestinian militants.“We are in touch with the Indian Embassy in Israel to ensure that the mortal remains of Soumya Santhosh who was killed in Israel is brought back to Kerala and handed over to her family as soon as possible. Heartfelt condolences to the family and friends of Soumya,” Vijayan tweeted.Minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan also said her body will be brought to the country at the earliest. “Spoke with the family of Ms Soumya Santhosh to convey my deep condolences at her tragic demise during the rocket attacks from Gaza today. Assured all possible assistance.” “We have condemned these attacks and the violence in Jerusalem, and urged restraint by both sides,” Muraleedharan said in a tweet.Soumya’s husband K Santosh, a native of Keerithode in Idukki district, said a rocket sent by Hamas fell on the apartment in Ashkelon in Israel as she was making a video call to him. “She was complaining about the worsening situation and I heard a huge explosion and lightning later. When I called her after ten minutes there was no answer,” he explained. He said he immediately alerted some of her friends in Israel who later confirmed her death. The elderly woman for whom she worked also killed in the attack.Israeli ambassador to India Ron Malka has also called up the family in the morning to convey his government’s condolences. Later he tweeted the photograph of Soumya with her husband and their 9-year-old son.“My heart goes to her nine-year-old son Adon, who lost his mother at such a young age and will have to grow up without her. The evil attack reminds me of little Moshe who lost his parents during the 2008 Mumbai attacks,” he tweeted. He was referring to the case of Moshe Holtezberg, the two- and-a-half year old boy, whose parents were killed during Mumbai terror attacks. The boy’s caretaker had saved him miraculously and she later migrated to Israel with Moshe.Soumya’s relatives said she was working in Israel for last seven years as ‘care giver’ and she was planning to return next year. Soumya last visited her native place in 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/grief-shrouds-family-of-woman-killed-in-israel-101620846766606.html
13-05-2021||India||BBMP’s free food scheme for poor draws flak for collecting Aadhaar details, phone numbers||Bengaluru: The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike’s (BBMP) distribution of free food for the poor during lockdown through Indira canteens has come under criticism from locals and activists alike after employees of the canteens were seen collecting Aadhaar card details and mobile numbers of those getting the food. In some canteens in Bengaluru, employees said they were even asked to take photographs of those receiving the food, which otherwise costs ₹10 per plate. The Indira Canteen is a subsidised food programme run by the Karnataka government, in line with the Amma Unavagam of Tamil Nadu. On Tuesday, Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa said that free meals would be provided for the poor in Bengaluru during the lockdown period to ease their hardships. “To ease hardships that come with the strict restrictions, three free meals will be made available to the poor, migrants and workers in need, at Indira Canteens in Bengaluru and across the state till May 24,” Yediyurappa said in a post on Twitter. At some centres in the city, local residents and activists pulled up authorities after some people were not able to get the food as they did not have identity card or mobile number. At some centres, strangers provided their mobile numbers to staff on behalf of people standing in queue for the food. Some of these issues from Indira canteens across Bengaluru have surfaced even as the Karnataka government told the high court that providing identity card was not mandatory for the distribution of food. The minutes of a meeting held on providing free food through Indira canteens, which was submitted in the high court, read: “The CSPs (catering service partners) will maintain a register to record beneficiary name, no of food packets given, contact no, identification document given by any government organisation like Aadhaar, voter id, driver’s licence, labour department identification card etc. Identity card is not compulsory for giving food, but in the interest of accountability, the CSPs are well-advised to collect as many ID card details as possible.” However, a managing director of three such catering service partners said they have received no instructions from the BBMP. “We were asked to collect ID card details and phone numbers of all those who were getting the food from us. We were asked to submit a report to the BBMP with these details after the distribution,” he said on the condition of anonymity. When asked if such a system would lead to denial of food to the poor, he said these were the orders given to them. At the Indira Canteen in KP Agrahara, employees said though several people approached them without identity card or mobile numbers, they did not send them back. “We gave them food. I don’t think it would have been right to send someone who came for food empty handed,” said one of two workers at the centre. These two employees were also responsible for packing 500 food packets at the centre and distributing them. Apart from identity cards, some of the centres were also seen taking photographs of those who were getting food packets. Rajesh, a local activist in KP Agrahara, said an old woman who came to the centre for breakfast was uncomfortable with her photo being taken. “She said that she was ready to pay money if need be, but she didn’t want her photo taken. She was really uncomfortable. She said she came for the food because she had lost her job at an agarbatti factory. If not, she would have paid for her own food. She felt humiliated with the photo being taken,” said Rajesh. He added, “Whatever the reasons, is this how a government should treat the people who are in need? For a ₹5 meal, they are asking for Aadhaar card, mobile number and photographs from people who can’t afford three meals a day.” Thulasi Maddineni, special commissioner (Finance), who is in-charge of the drive, told Hindustan Times that a meeting was held with all contractors on Wednesday evening and instructions were given to ensure no one is denied food at Indira canteens. “We are very clear that no needy person should go without food. That is the clear instruction we have given. At the same time, we are dealing with contractors, so we needed some documents to check how many packets have been distributed,” said Maddineni. Meanwhile,hours after the decision caused an outrage on social media, BBMP commissioner Gaurav Gupta on Wednesday evening announced that no identity proof or mobile number of the beneficiary was required for the distribution of food at Indira Canteens. “No identification proof or mobile number of the beneficiary is required for distribution of food packets to poor people, migrants and workers at Indira Canteen. Officials have been instructed the same during my visit to Indira Kitchen this morning. BBMP is committed to help everyone in need,” he tweeted.The special commissioner said that after the BBMP commissioner’s visit to Indira canteens, rules have relaxed. “We had introduced a system of taking photographs, but since there were objections to it, we have discontinued it. We will continue to collect details such as mobile numbers so that we can always call them to verify the contractor’s claims on food distribution,” she said. The officer, however, reiterated that the BBMP was not denying food to anyone because they don’t have a mobile number or identification card. “We clear on that. It is not compulsory for the citizen to provide documentation or mobile numbers. But if they give the numbers, we will have a record to ensure accountability in the process, in case any problem arises in the future. Once again, there is clear instruction given to the contractors that no one should be sent back because they don’t have documents,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bbmps-free-food-scheme-for-poor-draws-flak-for-collecting-aadhaar-details-phone-numbers-101620846705505.html
13-05-2021||India||K’taka suspends vaccination for 18+ from Friday||Bengaluru: The Karnataka government on Wednesday suspended vaccination for people in the 18-44 years age group from Friday, after a shortage of vaccines forced it to prioritise second shots.The state has decided to use “vaccines procured directly by the state for vaccination of persons between 18 to 44 years will be utilized for vaccination of beneficiaries who are due for second dose” and to also, as decided on May 7, “utilize the complete supply of vaccines provided by the government of India for vaccination of persons above 45+ years, for vaccinating beneficiaries who were due for second dose,” the Karnataka health department said in a statement.Most private hospitals in Bengaluru have run out of stocks, except Manipal and Apollo, after the state government stopped vaccine supplies from May 1 and instead asked them to procure doses on their own.On Wednesday, Karnataka recorded 39,998 news cases of Covid-19, with 517 deaths, taking the total number of active cases in the state to 592,182. Bengaluru recorded 16,286 cases.Gaurav Gupta, the chief commissioner of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) on Wednesday said that there were just 40,000 doses of vaccine left in Bengaluru.The crowds in vaccination centres have swelled with more and more people returning home without getting inoculated due to the shortage.The suspension in government centres will include those who have already booked appointments, the health department clarified.Karnataka, with a total population of around 60.5 million, of which around 30.26 million are between the age of 18-44, has so far administered 10.8 million doses of vaccines to at least 8.5 million people (2.2 million have received both doses and 8.5 million, one). The state has so far placed orders for 10 million Covishield vaccines from Serum Institute of India. In addition to this, it has also announced plans to float a global tender within the next week for another 20 million doses which include 10 million doses of Covaxin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ktaka-suspends-vaccination-for-18-from-friday-101620846645509.html
13-05-2021||India||HC asks K’taka govt to submit action plan to counter Covid third wave||Bengaluru: The Karnataka high court on Wednesday directed the state government to prepare an action plan for countering the potential third wave of Covid-19. A division bench of Chief Justice Abhay Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar gave directions during a hearing on the state’s Covid-19 preparedness. “It is high time that the state government starts preparation for dealing with the third wave. By projecting estimates of the requirement of beds, drugs, oxygen, medical personnel etc. We direct the state to prepare an action plan and vision statement dealing with the state of preparedness for dealing with the third possible wave of Covid-19,” the bench said. The court gave the state government two weeks’ time to come out with the action plan. Prior to this, the court had asked the government about bed and medicine requirements in the state. In its reply, the state government said that a total of 45,754 oxygen beds, 5,305 ICU beds are available along with 4,109 ventilator beds. The court then pointed out that as per the Central government’s requirements, the state should have 66,333 oxygen beds, 13,969 ICU beds and 8,332 ventilator beds. “Thus, it can be said that there is a huge shortage of beds at the state level… the situation in Bengaluru regarding availability of beds continues to be critical especially when over 15,000 cases are reported every day in the city,” observed the court. The bench then went on to ask the government to appoint a senior IPS officer to monitor the investigation into bribe for bed scam alleged by BJP MP Tejasvi Surya. “Looking into the sensitive nature of allegations, it is necessary that investigation is regularly monitored by an experienced senior IPS officer.” The court asked the state government to consider deploying officers specializing in cybercrime who can be part of the investigation team as well. The bench also asked the BBMP commissioner to take over the facility of beds and staff offered by the Air Force within 24 hours and make sure the facility is made operational immediately. It also asked the state government to offer an explanation in writing as to why beds that were offered by Railways were not taken over. The bench also pointed out that the state must audit the use of said Remdesivir drug as well as oxygen in the state. If some hospitals are unnecessarily using it, state will have to step in, the bench added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-asks-k-taka-govt-to-submit-action-plan-to-counter-covid-third-wave-101620846585515.html
13-05-2021||India||Modi reviews vaccine, O2 supply in key meet||New Delhi Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday held a high-level meeting to review the availability and supply of oxygen and medicines, while noting that production of all drugs, including remdesivir, has been ramped up significantly in the last few weeks as the country battles the countrywide surge in Covid-19 cases, the PM’s office said in a statement.“Reviewed different aspects relating to the COVID-19 situation. This includes different sources of oxygen availability and the supply of medicines across the nation,” the PM said in a tweet late on Wednesday.According to the statement released by the PMO, “The PM was also apprised that the production of all drugs including remdesivir have been ramped up significantly in the last few weeks. PM said that India has a very vibrant Pharma sector and Government’s continued close coordination with them will ensure proper availability of all medicines.’’During the meeting, the PM also approved the procurement of the 150,000 units of Oxycare System developed by Defence Research & Development Organisation (DRDO) at a cost of ₹322.5 crore from the PM Cares Fund. The system is aimed at optimising consumption of oxygen based on the SpO2 reading of the patient and thus, effectively increasing the utility of the oxygen cylinders.PMO said as many as 100,000 manual and 50,000 automatic oxygen systems will be procured along with non-rebreather (NRB) masks. Non-rebreather masks are the face masks connected to a reservoir bag which allow a patient to inhale only pure oxygen. A patient using an NRB is unable to inhale anything he or she exhales. A non-rebreather mask typically delivers 70 to 100% oxygen and increases the consumption from a single cylinder by 30 to 40%.DRDO welcomed the approval and highlighted how it will lessen the workload of hospital staff by a large extent as it will eliminate the need of routine measurements and manual adjustments of oxygen flow. “The threshold SpO2 value for initiating flow from the system can be adjusted once and a display will then continuously keep monitoring the SpO2 levels of the patient,” the DRDO said.Availability of oxygen and medicines across the country and a management of the surge in cases of Mucormycosis, or black fungus, a rare infection that impacts the brain or sinuses, were also discussed during the meeting.The central government is actively monitoring the supply of drugs being used in the management of Covid-19 as well mucormycosis, a rare fungal infection being reported at some places, the statement released by the PMO noted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-reviews-vaccine-o2-supply-in-key-meet-101620846526738.html
13-05-2021||India||Decline in testing adds to state’s Covid-19 woes||Bengaluru Covid-19 testing in Karnataka has seen a steady decline since the beginning of May that is likely to prolong the duration of the second wave of infections that continue to wreak havoc in the southern state.As per data the daily bulletin of the state health department , Karnataka conducted 164,703 RT-PCR tests on May 1, which has come down to 104,659, registering a de-growth of 36% in just under two weeks. During the same period, the number of active cases in Karnataka jumped from 405,068 to 587,452, data shows.The decline in testing comes at a time when authorities, including experts, have recommended a higher number of Covid-19 tests to be conducted for early detection of cases to ensure treatment can be provided at the right time and avoid hospitalisation, and worse, death.“We are advised to do targeted testing of those who have symptoms, primary and secondary contacts of the patients,” Dr Omprakash Patil, director at Karanataka’s health and family welfare services told Hindustan Times.With a daily caseload of around 40,000 for over two weeks, the state has become one of the most impacted regions in the country.According to data, testing in Bengaluru has also seen a steady decline, adding to the mounting troubles of the BS Yediyurappa-led administration that has imposed a lockdown to contain the surge and increase preparedness months after the government-appointed technical advisory committee (TAC) warned about the risks of the imminent second wave.“There is no shortage of testing kits, RTPCR labs are also adequate. We have given importance to test primary contacts, immediate family and vulnerable sections like in slums and doing targeted testing,” Gaurav Gupta, the chief commissioner of the BBMP said on Wednesday.According to data from the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), there were 62,004 tests conducted (both RT-PCR and RAT) in the city on May 1 which has since come down to 48,469.Data from the BBMP’s analysis show that the number of tests dropped from 694,664 between April 16-22 to 251,487 between May 7 to 11.The decline in testing goes against the five “T” strategy of the government which has so far gained and lost precious ground in the battle against the novel coronavirus.With contact tracing also taking a backseat in recent months, the surge continues in Karnataka and its capital city, Bengaluru, which has the highest number of active cases in the country.The surge has led to a collapse of the already inadequate and overstretched healthcare infrastructure, leading to shortage of beds, oxygen, life-saving medicines and even space in crematoriums in Bengaluru.The vaccination drive, one of the strongest measures Karnataka has to contain and defeat the surge, has also fallen short in recent times as lack of supplies has led to lower coverage.Karnataka on Wednesday reported 39,998 cases and 517 deaths with Bengaluru alone recording 16,286 cases and 275 fatalities, according to the health bulletin. According to the data, the positivity rate in the state is hovering around 30% for the last one week, while the rate in Bengaluru is at 38.89%.As far as the vaccination drive is concerned, Karnataka has so far administered 10,787,970 vaccines. But only 2,238,748 or less than 3.5% of the state’s 60.5 million people have so far received both the doses.Several hospitals and centres have now put up “no vaccination” boards just when the state opened up inoculations for persons between 18-44 years of age.“We don’t have a shortage as such. As and when the vaccine arrives, we will vaccinate all. We want to give it to everybody,” K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s minister for health, family welfare and medical education said on Wednesday.Karnataka has so far placed orders for 10 million doses of Covishield vaccines. In addition to this, the state government has also said that they would float global tenders to procure an additional 20 million doses of vaccine. However, delays in deliveries have stalled Karnataka’s vaccination drive.The surge, which appears to have slowed down marginally in Bengaluru, has now moved to rural areas and other districts of the state where there has been a spike in infections and fatalities, according to data.All the infrastructure in Bengaluru has crumbled under the pressure of the surge that has raised apprehensions if it would be worse in rural areas where healthcare is barely a fraction of what it is in the capital city.“With all its healthcare infrastructure and facilities we faced shortages in ICU and ventilator beds. In the same way, when it increases in rural districts, we have to treat and take care of the people with the facilities there,” Sudhakar said. He added that the government is already making preparations including naming medical personnel, increasing oxygenated bed strength, setting up step down hospitals and Covid care centres in rural areas to treat the infected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/decline-in-testing-adds-to-state-s-covid-19-woes-101620846525558.html
13-05-2021||India||Bengal govt, SC rights panel at odds over its visit to state||The West Bengal government has asked the National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) to cancel its visit to the state to inquire into the cases of atrocities against Dalits in the aftermath of post-poll violence, citing the pandemic restrictions and protocol. The commission has, however, decided to go ahead with the visit.While the West Bengal government on Monday told the Kolkata high court that not a single incident of post-poll violence has been reported in the state after May 8, the NCSC claims it has been receiving letters and complaints of atrocities against Dalits in the state, ever since the assembly elections were announced on May 2.The Commission is a constitutional body established to provide safeguards against the exploitation of Scheduled Castes. It joins a growing number of Central government bodies that have been quick to send fact finding teams to the state or shoot off letters to the local government following post poll violence that has rocked the state. The violence came after the TMC retained power, with an absolute majority in an election that the Bharatiya Janata Party expected to win.According to a member of the commission who asked not to be named, the NCSC conveyed to the West Bengal government its plan to visit the state on May 13 and 14 and also sought a meeting with the chief secretary and the director general of police.In a letter to the NCSC, dated May 11, the chief secretary of the state asked it to forward the complaints it has received in connection with the violence to the DG police. “The letter from the WB government has informed the NCSC that a 5-Member bench of the High Court Kolkata has heard the matter on May 10. The solicitor general has made a submission before the bench, that a number of complaints have been received by, inter alia, the national commission for schedule castes. And that the High Court has observed that in case any such complaints have been received by the commission with reference to violence during the polls or post poll, the same may be forwarded to the director general of police, West Bengal so as to enable him to transfer the same to the concerned police station for appropriate action,” added the person .When the Commission wrote back saying that it was part of its mandate to conduct spot visits, the state shot off a second letter, also dated May 11, pointing out the NSCN should reconsider the decision of proceeding to visit during the current pandemic situation.The person cited above said “even the hotel that was booked for the team has called to say that it cannot accommodate the visitors; the Commission will take it up with the state government.”The person did not respond on the exact number of cases of atrocities and violence against SCs in the post poll violence .After the Bharatiya Janata Party alleged that its workers are being attacked in the state allegedly by the TMC cadre, there have been a series of inquiries initiated. West Bengal Governor, Jagdeep Dhankar will visit families of those affected by post-poll violence in the state. In a tweet, he said that he will be visiting “post poll unprecedented violence affected areas”.The Home ministry has also already sanctioned security to all 77 BJP MLAs following an assessment of threat to them. While 16 of these MLAs had various levels of central security even before the Assembly polls, 61 were accorded X-category security of CISF on Monday.With the BJP claiming that some of its women cadre being attacked, a team of National Commission for Women headed by chairperson, Rekha Sharma visited the state last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-govt-sc-rights-panel-at-odds-over-its-visit-to-state-101620846466086.html
13-05-2021||India||Tripura to provide free Covid-19 vaccines to beneficiaries above 18 years of age||The Tripura government will provide free Covid-19 vaccines to beneficiaries in the 18-45 age group and has also decided to allocate ₹134 crores from the state budget to procure vaccines. “The decision of providing vaccines to the 18-45 age group free of cost was taken during a meeting held in April,” said OSD to chief minister Sanjay Mishra. However, the schedule of providing the vaccines is yet to be fixed as the vaccine suppliers have not given any stipulated date.Though the third phase of vaccination was due to start from May 1, it was delayed as states with larger number of Covid-19 cases would be provided the vaccines first. Chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb earlier said that the health workers and elders would be given priority for Covid-19 vaccination. “Everybody will be vaccinated phase wise,” Deb said. Earlier, more than 20 states including Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Haryana, West Bengal and Assam declared that they would make the vaccination drive free of cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-to-provide-free-covid-19-vaccines-to-beneficiaries-above-18-years-of-age-101620846226525.html
13-05-2021||India||Kerala reports record 43k cases, 95 deaths||Kerala on Wednesday reported a record 43,529 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) with a test positivity rate of 29.75 %, the highest since the outbreak began, and 95 deaths taking total fatalities in the state to 6,053 and the number of active cases to 4,32,789.Its case fatality rate is 0.4 % against the national average of 1.5% but experts said it may be difficult for the state to continue to keep deaths low with the high caseload threatening to overrun its efficient health system.Data released by the state health ministry shows that 20 of the 95 who died Wednesday were aged below 45 years, a fact that experts said pointed to the need to vaccinate everyone. The youngest among dead was a 22-year-old from Thrissur.“Since majority of the aged group has been covered in vaccination drive it is natural virus will target youngsters. We have to inoculate them fast. At the current rate , it will take many months to cover the population of the state. We have to procure them fast,” said Dr N M Arun.Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said vaccination of those in the 18-45 age group was delayed on account of a paucity of doses. “We are trying our best to vaccinate this group also. Due to the shortage, priority will be given to people who interact with public like delivery boys, drivers, daily-wage earners and others. We have given order for one crore (10 million) doses but got only 500000,” he said.He added that the state has enough medical oxygen and ICU beds .Much like other states, Kerala too does not seem to be reporting all its Covid dead. “Last week , we cremated 125 bodies but only 40 figured in the official list,” said the caretaker of a leading crematorium who asked not to be named. With deaths increasing, Thiruvananthapuram district collector Navjot Khosa has ordered all crematoriums to stay open 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-reports-record-43k-cases-95-deaths-101620846225420.html
13-05-2021||India||‘Duty cast on the State’: HC pulls up Goa on O2 shortage||The right to life is a fundamental right guaranteed by Article 21 of the Constitution, which places a duty on the State to ensure that life is not extinguished on account of its inability to supply oxygen, which cannot be avoided by pleading helplessness, the Bombay high court in Goa on Wednesday warned the Goa government.Twenty-six people died between 2am and 6am at the state government’s premier health care facility, Goa Medical College (GMC), due to poor oxygen supply. The state’s health minister, Vishwajit Rane, on Tuesday called for an inquiry into the deaths, linked them directly to oxygen shortage, and alleged that several patients were of dying on other days for the same reason.Hearing a bunch of public interest litigation petitions filed by citizens, the high court said on Wednesday: “There is a duty cast on the State to ensure that this life is not extinguished on account of inability on the part of the State to supply oxygen to these unfortunate victims of the pandemic. This duty can neither be avoided by pleading helplessness nor by putting forth logistical difficulties in sourcing and supplying oxygen.”The bench of justices MS Sonak and Nitin Jambre added: “At least tonight, and even hereafter, with the joint efforts of the Dean (of Goa Medical College) and the state administration of which he is a part, there are no casualties at the Goa Medical College for want of oxygen.”The GMC dean, who was summoned for the hearing, told the court that the hospital was facing a shortage of 6.5 metric tonne (MT) of oxygen per day, and that supply was not being augmented.“We have faced many interruptions in the supply of central oxygen on a daily basis, leading to near critical fall in the oxygen saturations of patients en masse in the intensive care units. The supply of cylinder oxygen, that is used for mild/moderate patients has also been deficient, and erratic, leading to the needy patients not getting it continuously,” Dr Shivanand Bandekar, the dean, told the court.“For want of sufficient oxygen supply, [we] are unable to use the HFNO (high flow nasal oxygen) machines even though several such machines are available and will provide substantial relief to the victims,” he added.GMC, which that is handling more patients than its bed capacity, delivers oxygen in two ways -- the 700 beds in the hospital are supplied through a central pipeline, and the 250 additional beds that have been set up during the pandemic are given the medical essential through loose cylinders that need to be replaced and refilled. However, hospital officials admitted that they are struggling to refill cylinders on time due to lack of manpower.“At times, there has been a problem with the supply of trolleys and loose cylinders, as a result of which there have been instances of a drop in supply of oxygen to the patients, which has resulted in casualties,” Dr Bandekar told the court.Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said that only the doctors would know how many of the patients died because of low supply of oxygen and how many died because their conditions were extremely critical.The high court ordered the Goa government to drop everything and ensure uninterrupted oxygen supply to hospitals.On Tuesday, Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant said that there was no shortage of oxygen, but that it was a logistic problem that stemmed from mismanagement of supplies by the hospital.“There needs to be a person in charge (for f oxygen cylinders) in each ward. This cannot be left to nurses. Oxygen is there, but it doesn’t reach the wards/patients. We will streamline the process of ensuring that the supply is adequate. We will allocate the work properly,” Sawant said on Tuesday.“As of now, the state administration will have to focus maximum on improving the position of oxygen supply in the state, and in particular at GMC. As of now, no one can afford to remain in a state of denial about this crucial issue which is taking away the precious lives of our people,” the high court said.Health secretary Ravi Dhawan assured that in response to the High Court’s directions all efforts were being made find out the solution to this issue of supply of oxygen.“First the government said that they have oxygen but no cylinders for refill. When we arranged some 100 cylinders, they claimed it was a logistics issue and so the tempos were arranged... But the bottom line is Goa needs 40 metric tons of oxygen instead of 26 it is currently allocated by the Centre. People will keep dying every night till this happens,” Shruti Chaturvedi a volunteer helping with Covid relief in Goa and who is also one of the petitioners before the High Court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/duty-cast-on-the-state-hc-pulls-up-goa-on-o2-shortage-101620846166040.html
13-05-2021||India||In letter to PM, Oppn leaders seek free mass inoculation, O2 relief||Top leaders from 12 Opposition parties -- including Sonia Gandhi of the Congress, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee of the Trinamool Congress, and Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin of the DMK -- have sent a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi putting across eight demands, including the central procurement of all vaccines and a universal free inoculation drive.The leaders also asked that the Central Vista revamp project be stopped, and its funds be diverted to procure oxygen and other essential materials.In the letter, the leaders argued that they have “repeatedly in the past” drawn the PM’s attention to the measures, which are “absolutely imperative” for the Central government to undertake and implement.“Unfortunately, your government has either ignored or refused all these suggestions. This only compounded the situation to reach such an apocalyptic human tragedy,” the letter said.The letter was also signed by former Prime Minister HD Deve Gowda of the Janata Dal (Secular), Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray, Jharkhand CM Hemant Soren, Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar, Akhilesh Yadav of the Samajwadi Party, Tejashwi Yadav of the Rashtriya Janata Dal, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, and D Raja of the CPI.The letter asked the PM to “procure vaccines centrally from all available sources - global and domestic” and “immediately begin a free, universal mass vaccination campaign across the country”. It urged the PM to “invoke compulsory licensing to expand domestic vaccine production. Spend budgetary allocation of Rs. 35,000 crores for the vaccines.”According to submissions by the Union government to the top court, India has a capacity of 85 million doses from two manufacturers for the month of May. This number is inadequate for the peak vaccination rate of four million a day recorded in the country in the first half of April. Since the drive began on January 16, India has on average administered about 1.5 million doses a day.At least 10 states have said they will float tenders to procure doses from vaccine makers based outside of the country, although most vaccine makers have already committed much of their 2021 supplies to other nations already.The letter said that the unemployed should be given at least ₹6,000 per month each, and there must be free distribution of foodgrains to the needy as over 10 million tonne of foodgrain is currently lying in central godowns.It also invoked the three controversial farm laws, which were passed last year and have sparked protests by farmer groups since then, and asked that these be repealed to “protect lakhs of our annadatas (providers) becoming victims of the pandemic so that they can continue to produce food to feed the Indian people”.To be sure, most of these demands have been repeatedly raised by the Opposition parties in the last few months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-letter-to-pm-oppn-leaders-seek-free-mass-inoculation-o2-relief-101620846165423.html
13-05-2021||India||SC hearing in Covid case on hold as Justice Chandrachud tests positive||Justice Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, who heads the Supreme Court bench scanning the Centre’s policy and preparedness in management of the second Covid-19 wave, has tested positive for coronavirus, said the court administration on Wednesday.The bench, which also includes justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat, was supposed to take up the suo motu (on its own motion) matter on Thursday. However, the case will now get deferred to some other date because justice Chandrachud is indisposed.A circular issued by the top court administration on Wednesday evening confirmed that the suo motu bench will not sit on Thursday and a fresh date for listing of the cases shall be notified later.Under the circumstances, Chief Justice of India NV Ramana, who is the master of roster, has the option of either constituting another three-judge bench with some other senior judge to hear the suo motu matter next week, or let the two other judges of the existing bench resume the hearing.The last hearing in this case on Monday encountered technically glitches, compelling the bench to defer it on Thursday. The judges also observed that adjournment will enable them go through the central government’s detailed affidavit on vaccination policies and some other pertinent issues.In its affidavit, the Centre justified the vaccination policy that allowed differential pricing of vaccines between them and the states, while also urging the bench to refrain from interfering with the policy matters.Meanwhile, on Friday, a bench of justices Ashok Bhushan and MR Shah will take up another suo motu case registered last year to consider plight of the migrant workers during the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-hearing-in-covid-case-on-hold-as-justice-chandrachud-tests-positive-101620845985601.html
13-05-2021||India||States plan global tenders but uncertain about doses||States have freedom to float global tenders for acquiring Covid-19 vaccines from any drug manufacturer, but they cannot inoculate their citizens with such vaccines that have not been approved by the Union government, which could emerge as a major technical issue, four people with knowledge of the matter said on Wednesday.As states are spending their own money, they do not require the Centre’s permission for inviting a global tender, but jabs cannot be administered without the approval of the central government, one drug manufacturer and three officials – representing the Centre and two states – said, asking not to be named.While the Union government has indicated that the vaccines of such manufacturers who have global approvals will not face any regulatory roadblock in India, there are some conditions that need to be fulfilled. This has emerged as a major technical issue during preliminary buyer-seller discussions, the people quoted above said.On Wednesday, Tamil Nadu became 11th state in India to say it will opt for global tenders to get vaccines, even as officials in states said it wasn’t clear by when they could receive doses.Officials indicated that most states were not confident of getting the vaccines soon because most international vaccine manufacturers have already made supply commitments to governments in other countries.One of the officials working in an eastern state said: “We have decided to float a global tender, but there are limited suppliers and they too are apprehensive of regulatory issue. India is not their first option, hence any large-scale procurement is full of challenges. Ideally, there should be a centralised procurement...”On Wednesday, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to allow “liberal, pro-active and discerning” import of vaccines, saying 100 million in the state need to be vaccinated and the supply of doses was “extremely inadequate”.An official representing an National Democratic Alliance -ruled state said: “Centre is anyway interfering with procurement process of vaccines from domestic suppliers. It directs [the domestic manufacturers] quantities of vaccines to be distributed to states. It would have been better if a centralised agency would have procured vaccines for entire country ...”After the Centre on April 19 decided to launch the “liberalised and accelerated” third phase of the national immunisation programme to cover the 18-44 age group from May 1, several states such as Uttar Pradesh, Odisha, Delhi, Karnataka, Telangana, Bihar and Maharashtra have initiated the procurement process of vaccines.The April 19 decision allowed vaccine manufacturers in India to supply 50% of monthly output to states and private hospitals after keeping 50% of doses for the Centre.“Bihar government is in the process of procuring vaccines, but the task is not that easy. There are few vaccine manufacturers globally and for most, India is not priority. As of now, approved vaccines (in India) are only three – Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik V – and they are not in a position to meet demand. Contracting any other vaccine manufacturer is risky as usage of such vaccines would be subject to the Centre’s approval,” another official said.HT reported on April 30 that the Bihar cabinet decided to allocate of ₹4,000 crore for the procurement of vaccines to be given free of cost to all aged between 18 and 45 years in 2021-22.Uttar Pradesh has floated a global tender for 40 million jabs on May 5, and the procurement process is on a fast track, additional chief secretary Navneet Sehgal said.“Besides the three vaccine manufacturers [Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik V], other global companies could be interested. The government would like to conclude the deal at the earliest,” he said.“It is difficult to say at this point in time as to how much time it would take for any first consignment to arrive. The state is going to have a pre-bid qualification meeting with any prospective suppliers tonight [Wednesday]. After that, the bids are scheduled for May 21. The companies [interested to bid] would mention the delivery schedule then,” UP health minister Jai Pratap Singh said.Earlier this week, the Odisha cabinet approved the global tender route to procure vaccines. “A technical committee is being set up to work out the details,” a state government official said.Punjab health minister Balbir Sidhu blamed the inadequate supply from the Centre as the reason behind slow vaccination in the state. “In the start of the drive, we faced a lot of hesitancy for the vaccine. However, now when set-up our centres across the state and motivated the people by running massive awareness drive, low stocks has discouraged us,” said Sidhu.Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said on Wednesday: “It is very important that we first focus more on second dose vaccinations. States should not lose sight of those who are to get the second dose of Covid vaccine. 70% at minimum ought to be allocated to meet the requirement of the second dose, while 30% ought to be reserved for the first dose.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-plan-global-tenders-but-uncertain-about-doses-101620845925459.html
13-05-2021||India||Kerala logs another high with 43,529 new Covid-19 cases, TPR nearly 30%||Amid the massive surge of Covid-19 cases, one of the achievements of Kerala in its fight against the pandemic, its low mortality rate, is under threat with the death rate going up steadily. On Wednesday, the state reported 43,529 new cases with a test positivity rate of 29.75%, the highest since the outbreak began. It also reported 95 deaths taking the total number of fatalities to 6,053 while the active caseload also rose to 4,32,789. Its mortality rate is 0.4 per cent against the national average of 1.5 per cent but experts said it is difficult for the state to maintain its low mortality rate now. What is disturbing is that many youngsters are falling prey to the virus, statistics released by the state health ministry shows. Among 95 casualties, 20 are below 45 years emphasising the urgent need to vaccinate the 18-45 age group, they said. The youngest among the dead was a 22-year-old youth from Thrissur. Doctors at major hospitals admitted that in the second wave many youngsters, that too without co-morbidities, are falling prey to the virus. They have urged the government to speed up vaccination and include more youngsters in the list. “Since a majority of the age group has not been covered in the vaccination drive it is natural that the virus will target youngsters. We have to inoculate them fast. At this rate, it will take many months to cover the population of the state. We have to procure vaccines fast,” said medical expert Dr N M Arun. He said it is time for the state government to buy more vaccines in the international market rather than waiting for the Union government. “The proportion of the mutated virus has increased all over the country during the second wave. Also superspreader events like major political rallies took place in the state during the polls. This might have exposed younger people,” said Dr Anup R Warrier, infectious diseases expert. But CM Pinarayi Vijayan said vaccination of the 18-45 age group was delayed due to paucity of doses. “We are trying our best to vaccinate this group also. Due to shortage, priority will be given to people who interact with public like delivery boys, drivers, daily-wage earners and others. We have given an order for one crore doses but got only 5 lakh,” he said. He said the oxygen situation and availability of ICU beds are under control. He added that five days were not enough (lockdown began on May 8) to understand the benefits of lockdown. Out of 14 districts in about 12 the TPR is above 25 per cent. When asked about the ICMR direction to shut down all districts with more than 10% TPR he said it was for the Centre to decide. As per the health ministry records the state has reported 6033 Covid-19 deaths so far but experts are of the opinion that the actual rate is much higher. Relatives of many deceased said the names of their kin were not there in the Covid-19 death count. “Last week one of the crematoriums in Palakkad cremated 125 bodies but only 40 figured in the official list,” lamented a caretaker of a leading crematorium. As the death rate goes up Thiruvananthapuram district collector Navjot Khosa has ordered all crematoriums to function for 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-logs-another-high-with-43-529-new-covid-19-cases-tpr-nearly-30-101620845566367.html
13-05-2021||India||Most of country should remain under lockdown for 6-8 weeks: ICMR chief||The head of the main Indian health agency responding to the coronavirus has said districts reporting a high number of infections should remain locked down for another six to eight weeks to control the spread of the rampaging disease.Dr. Balram Bhargava, head of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said in an interview that lockdown restrictions should remain in place in all districts where the rate of infection is above 10% of those tested.Currently, three-fourths of country's 718 districts have what is known as a test-positivity rate above 10%, including major cities like New Delhi, Mumbai and the tech hub of Bengaluru.Bhargava's comments are the first time a senior government official has outlined how long lockdowns, which already encompass large parts of country, need to continue to rein in the crisis in India.Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government has shied away from imposing a nationwide lockdown because of the economic impact and has left it to state governments.Several states have introduced varying levels of curbs on economic activity and public movement to stop the spread of the virus, which are mostly being reviewed and extended on a weekly or fortnightly basis."The high positivity districts should remain (shut). If they come to 5% from 10% (positivity rate) we can open them, but that has to happen. That won't happen in six-eight weeks, clearly," Bhargava said in an interview at the New Delhi headquarters of the ICMR, the country's top medical research body.Referring to the capital, one of the hardest hit cities where the positivity rate reached around 35% but has now fallen to about 17%, Bhargava said: "If Delhi is opened tomorrow, it will be a disaster."The country is in deep crisis in the current wave of Covid-19 infections with around 350,000 cases and 4,000 deaths being reported daily. Hospitals and morgues are overflowing, medical staff is exhausted and oxygen and drugs are running short.Many experts say the actual case tallies and deaths could be five to 10 times higher.Modi and other top political leaders have faced a public backlash for addressing mass election rallies where no major Covid-19 safety protocols were followed. The federal government also didn't intervene to stop a religious festival in a northern state in March that was attended by millions of devotees.'SLIGHT DELAY'Bhargava did not criticise the Modi government but conceded there had been a delay in responding to the crisis."I think the only discontent we have was there was a slight delay accepting the 10% (recommendation), but that did happen," he said.He said an April 15 meeting of the National Task Force on Covid-19 had made the recommendation to the government to lock down areas with a 10% positivity rate or higher.Yet, in a televised speech on April 20, Modi dissuaded states and said a lockdown should be used as "last resort" and the focus should remain on "micro containment zones".On April 26 - more than 10 days after the task force meeting - home (interior) ministry wrote to states, asking them to implement strict measures for "large containment areas" in hard-hit districts, but only for 14 days.Home and health ministries, as well as Modi's office, did not respond to requests for comment.Reuters reported earlier this month the head of the National Centre for Disease Control had privately told an online gathering that strict lockdown measures were required in early April.Two senior ICMR officials told Reuters the organization was frustrated about political leaders addressing large rallies and allowing religious gatherings, saying the actions publicly flouted required safety measures. Modi himself addressed several of the political meetings, maskless."Our messaging has been completely incorrect, not in sync with the situation," said one of the officials, referring to the government. "We have miserably failed."Bhargava denied there was any discontent within the ICMR and added the agency was on the same page with policymakers. Without commenting directly on political leaders, he said mass gatherings during Covid-19 should not be acceptable in India or anywhere else."It's common sense," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/most-of-country-should-remain-under-lockdown-for-6-8-weeks-icmr-chief-101620843920982.html
13-05-2021||India||Covaxin receives nod for trials on children||India’s drug regulator has given Bharat Biotech the permission to conduct clinical trials of its Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin, on children between the age of 2 and 18, paving way for the first coronavirus inoculation to be tested in minors in the country.According to officials who asked not to be named, the drugs regulator acted on the recommendations by the subject expert committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation’s (CDSCO) which was in favour of the trials, though with certain conditions.The move comes as experts in India have underlined the need to vaccinate people below the age of 18 since there cannot be a proper opening up until the entire population is protected.Bharat Biotech and Serum Institute of India, which produces Covishield, are the makers of the two Covid-19 vaccines approved in India in January.US regulators this week gave emergency use authorisation to Pfizer-BioNTech’s Covid-19 vaccine for children aged between 12 and 15. The vaccine was already being administrated to those above 16. Canada became the first country in the world to approve Pfizer’s Covid-19 vaccine for ages as young as 12 on May 5.“The panel [SEC] approval is for the phase II/III trials under certain conditions,” an official privy to the matter said, requesting anonymity.The second interim phase-3 analysis of Covaxin has shown 78% efficacy, although the data is yet to be peer-reviewed and published.As part of the SEC recommendation, the company was asked to submit the interim safety data of phase II clinical trials along with the data safety and management board recommendations to the CDSCO before it intended to proceed to seek permission for phase III of the trials.The trials will evaluate Covaxin for safety, reactogenicity, or a subset of adverse events, and immunogenicity, which relates to how well a vaccine works. All these parameters are necessary for a vaccine to get approval for use.The trials are expected to involve 525 participants at hospitals including Patna and Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS).Covaxin, the first Covid-19 vaccine developed in India, was made following a partnership between Bharat Biotech and the Indian Council of Medical Research. It is a whole virion inactivated vaccine, which uses a weakened or deactivated virus (Sars-Cov-2) responsible for the disease to trigger immunity against it.In February, Bharat Biotech approached the regulator with a proposal to conduct phase 3 Covaxin trials on people in the 5-18 age group. But the company was asked to return with the efficacy data of its vaccine in adults first before testing on people in this younger group. Bharat Biotech was also asked to submit a revised clinical trials protocol for children at an SEC meeting held on February 24.“After detailed deliberation, the committee recommended that the firm should submit efficacy and safety data of the ongoing Phase III clinical trial in adults along with the age subgroup analysis. The design of trial should be revised to Phase II/III. Sample size and other consequential changes should be made to the protocol, accordingly. Accordingly firm shall submit revised clinical trial protocol for review of the committee,” the minutes of the February 24 meeting read.In the subject expert committee meeting held on April 23, Bharat Biotech presented the second interim safety and efficacy data of the phase III clinical trials of Covaxin among adults in the country.On Tuesday, May 11, SEC again heard the company’s proposal of conducting trials among children, and granted the requisite approval for conducting trials.Bharat Biotech did not comment on the development at the time of going to press.Experts said it’s high time to get data on how the vaccines behave in children. “We need quick data and some analysis of risk-benefit for children,” said Dr Randeep Guleria, director, AIIMS, Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-biotech-gets-approval-to-conduct-covaxin-clinical-trials-on-kids-101620803970878.html
13-05-2021||NA||LIVE: Bengal sees record jump in daily Covid cases at 20,377; 135 more deaths||India on Wednesday recorded 348,421 fresh Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, according to Union health ministry dashboard. As many as 4,205 new deaths were also registered. The country has so far reported a total of 23.34 million cases and 254,197 deaths respectively.India is currently dealing with a devastating second Covid-19 wave that has swept through the nation, crushing the country's health infrastructure and overburdening frontline medical workers.The global Covid-19 disease caseload has climbed to 160,302,248 of which 3,330,287 people have died and 138,040,807 have recovered, according to worldometers.info. The United States continues to remain the worst-hit country from the pandemic with 33,548,056 cases and 596,925 deaths respectively.Meanwhile, a top White House state Department official has said that the US is working closely with India on its continued and emerging needs during the unprecedented second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.Follow all the updates here:Bengal sees record jump in daily Covid cases at 20,377; 135 more deathsBengal on Wednesday recorded the highest single day spike in Covid-19 cases at 20,377, taking the tally to 1,053,117, according to the state health department's bulletin. This is the second consecutive day that the new cases remained above the 20,000-mark. The death toll rose to 12,728 as 135 more people succumbed to the disease.Jharkhand extends lockdown like restrictions till May 27 to curb Covid spreadLockdown like restrictions in Jharkhand have been extended till May 27 to curb the spread of the Covid-19 disease, the state government announced on Wednesday adding there will be stricter restrictions including a seven day compulsory quarantine for those visiting Jharkhand. Read moreHaryana reports nearly 12,500 new Covid cases, 165 more deaths12,490 new #COVID19 cases, 14,264 recoveries and 165 deaths reported in Haryana todayCase tally: 6,52,742Active cases: 1,07,058 pic.twitter.com/PgwlLRSxHcHaryana's caseload of the Covid-19 disease climbed to 652,742 after 12,490 new cases and 165 more deaths were reported on Wednesday, according to the state health department's bulletin.UK registers 2,284 new Covid-19 cases, 11 more deathsThe United Kingdom on Wednesday recorded 2,284 new cases of the Covid-19 disease and 11 more deaths, according to news agency Reuters. The caseload is now over 4.44 million.Uttarakhand to import 2 million doses of Sputnik Covid vaccineUttarakhand will now import 2 million doses of Russia's Sputnik vaccine over the next two months, officials told news agency PTI adding a five member committee has been formed for this purpose and the required funds have been arranged.Maharashtra records 46,781 new Covid-19 cases; Mumbai’s daily tally goes over 2,000 againMaharashtra's daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) continued to rise on Wednesday with 46,781 new cases and 816 more deaths recorded in the last 24 hours, taking the caseload and death toll to 5,226,710 and 78,007 respectively, according to the state health department's bulletin. Read moreMaharashtra cabinet wants lockdown to be extended by 2 weeks, CM to take decision soon: TopeAmid speculations that the ongoing lockdown-like restrictions in Maharashtra will be extended further, state health minister Rajesh Tope said on Wednesday that the state cabinet wants these restrictions to be extended for another two weeks. However, Tope said a final decision in this regard will be taken by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray soon.Maharashtra suspends Covid vaccination for 18-44 age group, says health minister TopeMaharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope announced on Wednesday that the state government has suspended vaccination against the Covid-19 disease for beneficiaries between 18-44 years due to a shortage of vaccine doses.Andhra Pradesh registers 21,452 new Covid-19 cases, 89 deaths21,452 new #COVID19 cases, 89 deaths and 19,095 recoveries reported in Andhra Pradesh todayTotal cases: 13,44,386Active cases: 1,97,370 pic.twitter.com/8odxdk08bvGoa reports 2,865 new Covid-19 cases, 70 deathsGoa reports 2865 new #COVID19 cases, 70 deaths and 2840 recoveries in the last 24 hoursTotal cases: 1,27,639Active cases: 32,791 pic.twitter.com/QfAqnjp77OKerala logs 43,529 new Covid-19 cases, 95 deathsKerala reported 43,529 new Covid-19 cases and 95 deaths in the last 24 hours. With the new fatalities, the death toll in the state reached 6,053, ANI quoted chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan as saying.Moderna to supply 25 million Covid-19 vaccine doses to AustraliaModerna Inc on Wednesday announced a supply past with Australia for 25 million Covid-19 vaccine doses. Of the 25 million, 10 million doses against the original strain of coronavirus will be delivered this year, reported Reuters.Delhi reports 13,287 new Covid-19 cases, takes active caseload to 82,725Delhi on Wednesday reported 13,287 new Covid-19 cases, 14,071 recoveries and 30 fatalities in the last 24 hours. The active cases in the national capital now stand at 82,725, according to the health bulletin.Norway to not use AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine: ReportNorway will not resume the use of the Covid-19 vaccine made by AstraZeneca as part of its vaccination drive due to a risk of rare but harmful side-effects, Reuters reported citing newspaper VG's report on Wednesday.Covid-19 UK strain found in Rajasthan: State health ministerThe UK variant of Covid-19 has been found in the samples sent from Rajasthan for genome sequencing, state health minister Raghu Sharma said on Wednesday, reported PTI.Taiwan reports 16 Covid-19 cases, Taiwan president asks public to not panicAfter 16 cases of Covid-19 were reported in Taiwan on Wednesday, president Tsai Yin-wen sought to reassure the public that the government is capable of controlling the further outbreak and that they should not panic. The exact origins of the cases have not yet been discovered, reported AP.Journalists must be treated as frontline staff for Covid-19 vaccination: Devendra FadnavisMaharashtra Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis on Wednesday demanded that journalists, photographers and camerapersons be included in the frontline workers category to get them inoculated against coronavirus.PM CARES Fund approves procurement of 1,50,000 units of Oxycare SystemPM CARES Fund has approved procurement of 1,50,000 units of Oxycare System developed by DRDO at a cost of ₹322.5 Cr. It's a SpO2 based Oxygen Supply System, that regulates oxygen being administered to patients based on sensed SpO2 levels: DRDOTaiwan's leader seeks to reassure over new virus casesTaiwan's president on Wednesday sought to reassure the public that the government is capable of withstanding a further outbreak of Covid-19 after six local cases were detected.Russia reports 8,217 new Covid-19 cases, 355 deathsRussia reported 8,217 new Covid19 cases on Wednesday, including 2,718 in Moscow, taking the national infection tally to 4,905,059.500-bed ICU Centre for Covid-19 patients in Delhi to become operational from today500-bed ICU Centre for Covid-19 patients at Delhi's Ramlila Ground to become operational from today.Odisha: 10,982 new Covid-19 cases, vaccination soon for vulnerable people without ID proofOdisha on Wednesday reported 10,982 new Covid-19 cases and 17 more deaths, a Health Department official said.Govt engaging with manufacturers to ramp up production of Amphotericin B : Ministry of Chemicals and FertilizersGoI is engaging with manufacturers to ramp up production of Amphotericin B - to fight Mucormycosis. States requested to put in place a mechanism for equitable distribution of supplies amongst govt and private hospitals and health care agencies: Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers.Pondy adds 2,007 new cases to Covid-19 tallyPuducherry posted 2,007 fresh cases of coronavirus on Wednesday, pushing the total positives to 77,031. Twenty-seven more people succumbed to the disease during last twenty-four hours raising the toll to 1025.Over 3 million beneficiaries in age group 18-44 years vaccinated against Covid-19: Health ministryIndia’s cumulative vaccination coverage exceeds 17.5 croreMore than 30 lakh beneficiaries of age group 18-44 Vaccinated so farDetails: https://t.co/KhtGSyl94B pic.twitter.com/7mGbFfsSUcIndonesia study finds China's Sinovac Covid-19 vaccine highly effective in health workersAn analysis of Indonesian healthcare workers inoculated with a Covid-19 vaccine developed by China's Sinovac Biotech showed it was 98% effective at preventing death and 96% effective at preventing hospitalisation, a health ministry official said.Arunachal Pradesh reports 205 new Covid-19 cases, 4 deathsA total of 205 new Covid-19 cases and four deaths were reported on Tuesday, informed the state health ministry on Wednesday.China gives Bangladesh 500K vaccine dosesChina delivered 500,000 doses of Sinopharm vaccine as a gift to Bangladesh on Wednesday to help it cope with a shortage.Allu Arjun tests negative for Covid-19Telugu star Allu Arjun on Wednesday said he has tested negative for novel coronavirus.Request Centre to stop export of vaccine and share vaccine formula with other manufacturers: SisodiaRequest Centre to understand severity of situation, stop export of vaccine and share vaccine formula with other manufacturers: Manish Sisodia.We had demanded 1.34 cr doses, 67 lakhs each of Covaxin and Covishield: Manish SisodiaWe had demanded 1.34 cr doses, 67 lakhs each of Covaxin and Covishield. Covaxin (Bharat Biotech) wrote to us yesterday that they can't provide. They wrote 'we're making dispatches as per directives of concerned govt officials'. Obvious that these are central govt officials. The letter by Covaxin manufacturers clarifies that central govt decides which state will get how many doses: Delhi Dy CM Manish Sisodia.Exporting 6.6 crore doses was biggest mistake, says Manish SisodiaOnce again I would say exporting 6.6 crore doses was biggest mistake. We are forced to shutdown 100 covaxin-vaccination sites in 17 schools due to no supply: Manish Sisodia.Puducherry reports 2,007 new Covid-19 positive casesPuducherry reports 2,007 new Covid-19 positive cases, 1,247 recoveries and 27 deaths in the last 24 hours. Active cases at 15,562 and total cases at 77,031.Complete lockdown to be imposed in Chhattisgarh's Gaurela-Pendra-Marwahi districtComplete lockdown to be imposed in Chhattisgarh's Gaurela-Pendra-Marwahi district from midnight today till midnight of May 15, in view of rise in Covid-19 cases.Japan's coronavirus vaccine booking system crashesTechnical problems derailed Japan's coronavirus vaccination booking system on Wednesday, compounding frustration over the government's handling of new outbreaks of infections and an inoculation drive that critics say has been woefully slow.Hospitals in Nepal run short of oxygen, turn away Covid-19 patientsSeveral hospitals in and around Nepal's capital city of Kathmandu have started turning down patients following the government's decision to cap the supply of life-saving medical oxygen, thereby affecting operation of hospitals treating the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the country.Second Covid wave seems to have flattened but won’t end before July: virologist Shahid JameelIndia’s second Covid-19 wave seems to have flattened but the climb down will be a more prolonged, long drawn-out process than the first and will possibly run till July, says eminent virologist Shahid Jameel.Padres' Fernando Tatis Jr., Wil Myers test positive for Covid-19The San Diego Padres placed shortstop Fernando Tatis Jr. and right fielder Wil Myers on the injured list Tuesday after they tested positive for Covid-19.South Korea's Covid-19 vaccine shortages overshadow Moon-Biden summitSouth Korea's struggle to boost coronavirus vaccine supplies is threatening to overshadow President Moon Jae-in's first summit with US President Joe Biden, with pressure mounting on Moon to secure more and faster deliveries of U.S.-made shots.Harsh Vardhan to hold meeting with Health Ministers of some states that are lagging behind in Covid-19 vaccinationUnion Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan will have a meeting today, with the Health Ministers of some states that are lagging behind in Covid-19 vaccination. He will hold the meeting with the Health Ministers of Jammu and Kashmir, Uttarakhand, Haryana, Punjab, Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha and Telangana.Dr Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd has entered into a licensing agreement with Eli Lilly and Company for manufacture, commercialization of Baricitinib in IndiaDr Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd has entered into a royalty-free, non-exclusive voluntary licensing agreement with Eli Lilly and Company for the manufacture and commercialization of the drug, baricitinib, in India.It received restricted emergency use approval from Central Drugs Std Control Org, Health Ministry, for use in combination with Remdesivir to treat suspected/laboratory-confirmed Covid in hospitalized adults requiring supplemental oxygen, invasive mechanical ventilation: Dr Reddy's.Scientists race to study variants in India as coronavirus cases explodeA potentially worrisome variant of the coronavirus detected in India may spread more easily. But the country is behind in doing the kind of testing needed to track it and understand it better.Mizoram reports highest single-day spike of 240 Covid-19 casesMizoram on Wednesday reported the highest single-day spike of 240 Covid-19 cases, pushing the tally to 8,035, an official said.With 4,205 new Covid-19 deaths and 348,421 fresh cases, India's tally crosses 23.34 million, toll at 254,197India records fresh 348,421 Covid-19 cases, 42,05 deaths in last 24 hours.Maharashtra: 2 die of mucormycosis in Thane, 6 hospitalisedTwo Covid-19 patients have died due to mucormycosis, a serious but rare fungal infection, in Maharashtra's Thane district, a health official said on Wednesday.19,83,804 samples were tested yesterday: ICMR30,75,83,991 samples tested up to May 11 for Covid-19. Of these, 19,83,804 samples were tested yesterday: Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).Taiwan may raise Covid-19 alert, shut non-essential shopsTaiwan may raise its Covid-19 alert level in "coming days", Health Minister Chen Shih-chung said on Wednesday, according to the official Central News Agency, which would lead to closure of shops dealing in non-essential items as infections rise.56 prisoners in Haryana's Karnal Jail test positive for Covid-19As many as 56 prisoners in Haryana's Karnal Jail had tested positive for Covid-19 in the last few days.Bharat Biotech's Covaxin given nod for phase 2 and 3 human trials on 2-18 year oldsSubject Expert Committee (SEC) gives nod to Bharat Biotech's Covaxin for phase 2 and 3 human clinical trials on 2 to 18-year-olds: Sources, reports news agency ANI.'Perform yagna, Covid third wave won't touch India': MP Minister Usha ThakurMadhya Pradesh Culture Minister Usha Thakur, who has been giving controversial comments especially related to the Covid-19 pandemic, on Tuesday came up with another suggestion by asking people to perform 'yagna chikitsa' (ceremonial fire ritual) for four days to ward off the third wave of Covid-19.50-bed Covid-19 care centre to set up at Ludhiana's Sant Ishar Singh Memorial HospitalTo augment the health infrastructure especially in the rural hinterland which has been witnessing a spurt in Covid-19 infections, the district administration on Tuesday stated that a 50-bedded Covid Care Centre will start its operations at Sant Ishar Singh Memorial Hospital, Ludhiana from May 14 onwards.About 8 Maoist cadres die of Covid-19, another 15-20 are seriously illAbout seven to eight Maoist cadres have died of Covid-19 and about 15 to 20 others are seriously ill, a letter seized from a Communist Party of India (Maoist) leader said.Second Covid wave could crimp India's long-term growth: Moody'sIndia's severe second wave of coronavirus infections will slow near-term economic recovery and could weigh on longer-term growth dynamics, rating agency Moody's Investors Service said in a note on Tuesday.Flight from South Korea carrying medical aid lands in DelhiCooperation with Republic of Korea continues. Consignment of medical equipment including 200 oxygen concentrators arrives. Appreciate this support from our partner: MEA Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi.Biden urged to take decisive global leadership on Covid-19In an open letter, a group of eminent global business and policy leaders has urged US President Joe Biden to demonstrate a decisive American leadership in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic.Hospitals in tourist-haven Costa Rica in 'serious' phase as Covid-19 cases surgeHospitals in the Central American nation of Costa Rica are running out of space for Covid-19 patients amid a new wave of infections, the president of the national doctors' union said on Tuesday.Brazil states suspend AstraZeneca vaccine for pregnant womenSao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro and other Brazilian states on Tuesday suspended immunization of pregnant women with the AstraZeneca coronavirus vaccine on the advice of the national health regulator after a reported death.Ambulance driver in Andhra suspended for leaving Covid patient's body on roadA driver of a government ambulance was suspended for leaving a Covid patient's body in the outskirts of a village in the Krishna district on Tuesday.Brazil buys 100 million more doses of Pfizer's Covid-19 vaccineBrazil's Health Ministry on Tuesday announced it had signed a deal for Pfizer to deliver an additional 100 million doses of its Covid-19 vaccine, doubling the number of shots from the company.Uttarakhand forms committee to float global tenders for Covid vaccines procurementAmid the shortage of Covid vaccines supply, the Uttarakhand Government has constituted a 5-member committee which will work towards procuring vaccines through global tenders.Uttarakhand Chief Secretary on Tuesday constituted a 5-member committee for vaccine procurement.Uttarakhand becomes 9th state to receive Oxygen Express from RailwaysUttarakhand has become the ninth state to receive Oxygen Express from the Indian Railways amid the Covid-19 pandemic.Indian Covid-19 variant found in 44 countries, all regions: WHOThe World Health Organization said Wednesday that a variant of Covid-19 behind the acceleration of India's explosive outbreak has been found in dozens of countries all over the world.Locals defy Covid-19 norms at Hyderabad's Charminar areaSeveral people flouted Covid-19 norms while shopping for Eid at the markets of Hyderabad on Tuesday.US working closely with India on Covid-19 crisis: White House officialThe US is working closely with India on its continued and emerging needs during the unprecedented second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, a top State Department official has said.Samsung BioLogics to produce Pfizer's Covid-19 vaccine: ReportSamsung BioLogics Co Ltd is in talks with Pfizer Inc to begin production of the US drugmaker's Covid-19 vaccine in South Korea as early as in August, a South Korean newspaper reported on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-india-world-latest-news-covid-19-death-toll-may-12-2021-101620776463630.html
