14-05-2021||India||Telugu writer-director Nandyala Ravi passes away due to Covid-19 complications||Telugu film industry expressed shock and grief at the untimely demise of writer-director Nandyala Ravi, who breathed his last on Friday morning, days after being hospitalised in Hyderabad due to complications related to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Ravi, who is survived by his wife, daughter and son, was facing financial crisis during his hospitalisation, and was helped by comic actor Saptagiri, who donated ₹one lakh for Ravi’s treatment.The late writer-director hailed from Saripalli, near Ganapavaram in Andhra Pradesh’s West Godavari district. After initially working as a writer for films like "Nenu Sitamahalakshmi,” Pandem,” “Asadhyudu,” Ravi later ventured into direction with the film, “Lakshmi Rave Ma Intiki”.Recently, he also worked as a scriptwriter for the film, “Power Play”.Many Telugu celebrities, including prominent names like Valluripalli Ramesh Babu, KK Radha Mohan, Venugopal Bekkem, Vijay Kumar Konda and Sapthagiri, condoled Ravi's demise.The Telugu film industry has witnessed the passing away of a number of actors and technicians during the pandemic, including director Akkineni Vinay Kumar, music director KS Chandrasekhar and actor-cum-journalist TNR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telugu-writer-director-nandyala-ravi-passes-away-due-to-covid-19-complications-101621014626257.html
14-05-2021||India||Over 10,000 oxyegn concentrators, 19 plants sent to states: Centre||To combat the second wave of Covid-19, the Indian government has so far dispatched 10,796 oxygen concentrators, 12,269 oxygen cylinders, 19 oxygen generation plants, 6,497 ventilators/Bi-PAP, and about 4.2 lakhs Remdesivir vials to various states and union territories (UTs) which were received as foreign aid.An official press release stated that these items were delivered between April 27 and May 13 this year.It said that major consignments were received on May 12 and 13 from countries like Indonesia, Luxembourg, Oman, South Korea, UK, USISPF, Finland, and Greece which included 1,506 oxygen concentrators, 434 oxygen cylinder, and 58 ventilators/ BiPAP/ CPAP."The Government of India, at the forefront of the 'Whole of government' approach to combat the ongoing Covid-19 has been receiving international donations and aid of Covid-19 relief medical supplies and equipment since April 27 from different countries/organisations to augment its efforts in fighting the unprecedented surge of cases. Through a streamlined and systematic mechanism, various ministries/departments of Government of India have seamlessly collaborated for expeditiously delivering the incoming global aid to states and UTs," the release said.It said that effective immediate allocation, and streamlined delivery to the recipient states/UTs and institutions is an ongoing exercise."The Union Health Ministry is comprehensively monitoring this on a regular basis," the release said.It said a dedicated coordination cell has been created in the Union Health Ministry to coordinate the receipt and allocation of foreign Covid relief material as grants, aid and donations.This cell started functioning from April 26. A Standard Operating Procedure has been framed and implemented by the Health Ministry since May 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-10-000-oxyegn-concentrators-19-plants-sent-to-states-centre-101621014571098.html
14-05-2021||India||Forensic tests to reveal exact cause of deaths of 18 elephants in Assam, experts point to lightning||The Assam government on Friday decided to conduct forensic tests of the 18 elephants that reportedly died due to lightning two days ago in Barhampur area of Nagaon district. The bodies of the elephants, all adults and sub-adults, were buried on Friday after a team of veterinarians conducted the post-mortem. Some remains have been sent to the state forensic laboratory in Guwahati for further tests. The incident took place at Bamuni Pahar under Kothiatoli forest range of Nagaon district. Bodies of the pachyderms were found on Thursday-- four were found at the bottom of a hillock and 14 others on top of it. Though initial inquiry had revealed lightning to be the likely cause of the deaths, wildlife experts had suspected that mass poisoning could also be a reason as Assam had earlier witnessed deaths of elephants due to poisonings. “From what we saw, it appears the deaths were caused due to lightning as there were no visible signs of struggle before the elephants died. But the exact cause will be known only after reports of post mortem and forensic examinations,” said forest and environment minister Parimal Suklabaidya. The Assam government has constituted a team to be headed by a senior forest officer and seven veterinarians to probe the incident. They will submit their preliminary report within three days and a detailed one in 15 days. On Friday, almost the entire day was spent on conducting post-mortems, bringing the bodies of the pachyderms down from the hillock and burying them in open grounds. “The post-mortem reports will be available in a day or two, but we may have to wait a little longer for outcome of the forensic tests. A visit to the area had revealed that some trees near the bodies of the elephants were burnt, which suggested that lightning may have struck the area,” P Sivakumar, director, Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve (KNPTR) said. Elephant experts and CEO of Aaranyak, a wildlife NGO, Bibhab Talukdar, said that though it initially appeared unlikely that lightning could have resulted in the deaths, but evidence now suggests that it was the most probable cause. “Our studies have revealed that in Assam, the most intense lightning strikes happen prior to dawn and in the period between April-May, our region is the third most prone to lightning after parts of Central Amercia and Australia. An international weather website had also shown lightning strikes happening in the area where the elephants died on Wednesday,” said Rahul Mahanta, professor of Physics at Cotton University. “There have been previous instances in the past where large numbers of animals have died due to lightning. In 2016, over 300 reindeer died in Norway in a lightning strike. Photos and videos of the incident at Nagaon suggest that the elephants died in an instant after their nervous system got severely affected by the lightning strike,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/forensic-tests-to-reveal-exact-cause-of-deaths-of-18-elephants-in-assam-experts-point-to-lightning-101621013700349.html
14-05-2021||India||Ahmedabad hospital creates separate ward for Mucormycosis as cases continue to be reported across India||As many as 296 patients ailing from Mucormycosis or ‘Black Fungus’ have been admitted to Ahmedabad civil hospital in Gujarat, and a separate ward for them has been opened within the hospital premises, Dr JV Modi, medical superintendent at the hospital told news agency ANI. Adding that provision for more beds will be made as and when the need arises.“296 patients with Mucormycosis admitted here, a separate ward has been opened. If needed, we'll increase beds,” said Dr Modi“Government provides us medicines -- amphotericin & oral antifungal drugs -- for its treatment, daily as per need,” he added.Mucormycosis, which is caused by a black fungus called mucor, has been on the rise all over the country. Symptoms for which include blurred vision, shortness of breath, discolouration over the nose, chest pains, coughing etc. Covid-19 afflicted patients who are diabetic have a higher chance of catching this infection.Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has issued a guideline to doctors on the steps to follow in preventing the fungal infection from afflicting immunocompromised individuals. Pune district, which recorded around 270 cases of Mucormycosis so far, has framed a set of Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for treating patients.Niti Ayog member Dr VK Paul told reporters on May 7 that there is no major outbreak of Mucormycosis in the country, and that the government is monitoring the situation.“There are reports of this fungal infection among Covid-19 patients. But I want to reassure you that there is no major outbreak and we are monitoring the cases at our level," Paul had said.State governments have however begun to voice their concern over this fungal infection affecting recovered Covid patients. Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot urged the Central government to take the disease seriously and conduct research on it. Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope asked the Centre to bring down prices of the drugs used to treat the infection so as to prevent black marketing. Maharashtra has reported 1,500 cases of the infection so far, said Tope.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahmedabad-hospital-creates-separate-ward-for-mucormycosis-as-cases-continue-to-be-reported-across-india-101621012409076.html
14-05-2021||India||Sikkim to impose week-long lockdown from May 17||The Himalayan state of Sikkim will clamp a week-long lockdown from Monday amid a spike in Coronavirus infections across the country. A notice issued by Sikkim’s home department on Friday said that a complete lockdown will commence from 5 am on May 17 and end at 5 am on May 24. Only emergency services will remain operational. In 2020, Sikkim witnessed fewer cases than other states but the spike has been sharp this year with 31 deaths reported between Monday and Friday. Sikkim, which reported around 50 new Covid-19 cases in a day three weeks ago, reported 231 new cases and 9 deaths on Thursday. On Friday, the state reported 3,002 active Covid-19 cases and 6 deaths.But the state, according to the Union health ministry data released on Friday morning, had a high positivity rate. Sikkim’s North district has reported a positivity rate of 46.6% and increasing, East district has 24%, South district has 20.5% and the West district has 18.3%. Just four days ago, according to the Union health ministry, the positivity rate of the four districts ranged from 26.7% to 14.8%..Sikkim’s lockdown rules prohibit meetings and movement of people and goods. Only people and vehicles involved in the movement of essential food items, LPG, medicines etc. have been exempted.All state government offices, shops, ration shops, private commercial establishments, educational institutions, gymnasiums, markets and factories will remain closed for a week. Medicine shops, medicine production units, oxygen suppliers and allied sectors have been kept out of the purview of the lockdown. Central government offices will operate according to guidelines issued by the Centre. Movement of passengers through Pakyong Airport will be allowed if they produce negative RT-PCR reports, the notice said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sikkim-to-impose-week-long-lockdown-from-may-17-101621012020341.html
14-05-2021||India||7,900 MT oxygen delivered via Oxygen Express trains: Railways||The Union ministry of Railways said on Friday its special 'Oxygen Express' trains, which are being operated to supply liquid medical oxygen (LMO) to various states amid complaints of shortage, have delivered nearly 7,900 metric tonnes (MT) of the compound in nearly 500 tankers to 12 states thus far.Noting that Indian Railways’ Oxygen Express trains commenced operations with the delivery of 126 MT of LMO to Maharashtra on April 24, the ministry, in a press release, said these trains have supplied 800 MT of LMO across the nation in the last few days.“Crisscrossing the country, the Railways is picking up oxygen from places like Hapa and Mundra in the west and Rourkela, Durgapur, Tatanagar, Angul in the east, and then delivering it to the states of Uttarakhand, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Haryana, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Haryana, Telangana, Punjab, Kerala, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh in complex operational route planning scenarios,” the release said.It also listed steps taken to ensure the delivery of LMO in the “fastest time possible.” For this, the release said, the average speed of these trains is kept above the 55-km per hour norm in most cases for long distances. “Running on high priority Green Corridor, with the highest sense of urgency, operational teams of various zones are working round the clock to ensure that Oxygen Express reaches in the fastest possible time frame,” it further said.﻿Further steps include technical stoppages of just a minute for the changing of crew and keeping tracks open to ensure “Oxygen Express keeps zipping through, '' the ministry noted further.It also said that 80 MT of LMO was delivered to Tamil Nadu earlier in the day in what was the state’s first delivery of the compound, while the second Oxygen Express, too, is on its way. First Oxygen Expresses for Andhra Pradesh and Kerala, too, are on their way with 40 MT and 118 MT of LMO, respectively, the release said.Noting that 130 Oxygen Express trains have completed their journeys thus far, it said more than 2,934 MT of LMO has been delivered to Delhi while Uttar Pradesh has received 2,210 MT thus far. Among other states, Haryana has received 1,228 MT, Maharashtra 462 MT, Madhya Pradesh 408 MT, Telangana 308 MT, Karnataka 120 MT, Uttarakhand and Tamil Nadu 80MT each, while Rajasthan has received 72 MT of oxygen thus far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7900-mt-oxygen-delivered-via-oxygen-express-trains-railways-101621008456129.html
14-05-2021||India||Govt says media reports on 'Make in India' ventilators in Aurangabad not working 'baseless, incorrect'||The Union Health Ministry on Friday dismissed as "baseless and incorrect, and not supported by full information on the matter" some media reports suggesting that 'Make in India' ventilators in Maharashtra's Aurangabad district were not functioning optimally.  Ventilators were available in very limited numbers in government hospitals across the country at the beginning of the pandemic last year. Moreover, very limited manufacturing of ventilators was taking place in the country and most of the suppliers abroad were not in a position to make supplies of ventilators in large quantities to India.That is when the local manufacturers were encouraged to produce "Make in India" ventilators to address the huge projected demand of the country and orders placed on them. The ventilator models went through rigorous screening, technical demonstration and clinical validation process in a very limited time available, through domain knowledge experts, and after their approval, these were put into supplies.There are a few states which received the ventilators but are yet to get these installed in their hospitals. The Union health secretary wrote to seven such states on April 11 which still have more than 50 ventilators lying uninstalled with them for the last 4-5 months, the ministry said. They have been requested to get the installation expedited so that the ventilators can be put to optimal use.Ventilators manufactured by Jyoti CNC were supplied to Aurangabad Medical College. Jyoti CNC is one of the manufacturers of "Make in India" Ventilators. They have supplied ventilators centrally for Covid-19 management, as per the directions of Empowered Group-3, a statement said. These ventilators were then made available to states as per their requests. This supplier is not funded under PM CARES fund.In Aurangabad Medical College, 150 ventilators were supplied by Jyoti CNC. The first tranche of 100 ventilators reached Aurangabad on April 19, 2021 and their installation was carried out as per the allocations received from the state authorities. Forty-five out of 100 in the first lot were installed in the medical college. Installation and successful commissioning certificate in respect of all these ventilators was issued by the hospital authorities after their successful commissioning and demonstration, the ministry said.Out of these 45 installed ventilators, three were reinstalled in a private hospital (Cigma Hospital) by the state authorities. These were installed again by engineers of Jyoti CNC at the said private hospitals. The installation and commissioning certificate was issued by the hospital authorities also after their successful commissioning and demonstration, the statement said.Twenty ventilators out of the above 45 were reallocated to another private hospital (MGM Hospital) by the states authorities. No formal information was provided about this to Jyoti CNC, the statement said.Therefore, Jyoti CNC engineers had no part in the reinstallation of these ventilators. Therefore, the installation of these ventilators at the new location was done by the state authorities at their own responsibility.The ministry said 55 ventilators of the first tranche were diverted to other locations (four locations namely Civil Hospitals at Beed, Usmanabad, Parbhani and Hingoli). Installation and commissioning certificates for 50 ventilators were issued by the hospital authorities after their successful commissioning and demonstration. Five ventilators are lying uninstalled at the Beed Civil Hospital waiting for directions from the hospital authorities, the statement said.The second tranche of 50 ventilators was sent to the Aurangabad Medical College and Hospital on April 23, 2021. Only two ventilators were installed in a private hospital by the authorities (Cigma Hospital). Installation and commissioning certificates for these two ventilators have also been issued by the hospital authorities after their successful commissioning and demonstration. Directions are awaited by Jyoti CNC & HLL for further installations of 48 ventilators lying packed in Government Medical College, Aurangabad, the statement said.On April 23, (i.e. four days after successful installation of ventilators the hospital authorities at GMC Aurangabad, a complaint was received telephonically informing that eight ventilators were not functioning, the statement said.The engineers went to the site and found that flow sensor (proximal) had not been installed in three ventilators by the hospital. All eight were recalibrated by the service engineers of the vendor. One ventilator had an oxygen cell which was not functioning, the statement said.A fresh oxygen cell was reinstalled and this ventilator also made functional and commissioned subsequently, it said.Jyoti CNC received a call on May 10, 2021 informing that two ventilators have been used in ICU. Out of these, one on NIV (Non-Invasive (BiPAP) mode), is not being able to ensure saturation of the patient. The authorities said that this may be checked outside the ICU, the statement said.The same was examined by the team of service engineers and was found to be in functional condition and the team returned after satisfying the Hospital authorities. This was put back in operation on a patient on night of May 12 on NIV mode, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-says-media-reports-on-make-in-india-ventilators-in-aurangabad-not-working-baseless-incorrect-101621008716881.html
14-05-2021||India||Assam starts special Covid-19 vaccination drive for transgenders. It’s the first in India||Thirty members of the transgender community got their first Covid-19 vaccination dose in Guwahati on Friday as part of a special drive — the first such in the entire country. A vaccination centre was set up at a shelter home for transgenders in the city with the support of the state’s health department. The drive will continue and cover other districts of the state in the next few weeks. “The main source of income of most transgender people is begging. Since they come into contact with other people, they are very vulnerable to getting infected,” said Swati Bidhan Baruah, founder of the All Assam Transgender Association and associate vice-chairperson of Assam government’s transgender welfare board. “As a marginalized group, they were getting left out of the vaccination process and when we requested the health department, we got a very positive response. They helped with the logistics and we were able to start the vaccination drive without any glitch,” said Baruah. Since, it was Eid-ul-Fitr on Friday the number of participants was limited. Over 200 people are expected to get vaccinated in the second round of the drive, to be conducted next week. “I have been interacting with transgender activists from other parts of the country and they were saying that no such vaccination programme has been launched for the community in other states. We are happy that we have been able to do it in Assam for the first time,” said Baruah. According to the 2011 census, Assam has a transgender population of 11,374. In June last year, the state government set up a welfare board for the transgender community. A separate gender category was introduced for transgender people in the state civil services examination in October last year. “We decided to start the special drive for the community to ensure they don’t get left out of the vaccination process. We will continue to provide them with the required doses so that the drive can continue and cover every transgender person in the state,” said Munindra Nath Ngatey, director, health services (family welfare).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-starts-special-covid-19-vaccination-drive-for-transgenders-it-s-the-first-in-india-101621008241525.html
14-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Google favours preserving work permit for spouses of workers on H-1B visa and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Google leads 30 companies to preserve work permit for H-1B spousesAlphabet Inc’s Google on Friday said that it is leading nearly 30 companies and trade organisations to oppose a lawsuit that seeks to stop thousands of spouses of foreign workers on H-1B visa from working in the United States. Read MoreYSR Congress MP who asked court to cancel bail to Jagan arrested for seditionYSR Congress lawmaker Kanumuri Raghurama Krishnam Raju was arrested in Hyderabad by Andhra Pradesh’s Crime Investigation Department (CID) on Friday on charges of sedition. Read More‘Enact special law to uphold dignity of dead’: NHRC to Centre, states on Covid-19 victimsWith disturbing reports of mishandling of Covid-19 bodies emerging from across the country, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Friday recommended that the government should enact a special legislation to uphold the dignity and protect the right of the dead. Read More'You all say Virat Kohli is the best purely to get few more clicks, likes and numbers': Michael VaughanIndia is going to tour England for a five-match Test series that starts in August this year. Read MoreLenovo has launched a portable USB-C battery that can charge a laptopLenovo has announced a new brand called Lenovo Go that’s all about accessories. As the company explained, they are looking to bridge the gap between working from the office and working from home with these new accessories. Read MoreThe Woman in the Window movie review: Trashy Amy Adams film is almost as bad as Parineeti's Girl on the TrainJust how bad could The Woman in the Window have been for two studios and a stacked cast to distance themselves from it, only for it to be released with almost no fanfare on Netflix? The answer: really bad. Read MoreAmid Covid, fuel price stings: Watch people react to another petrol, diesel hikeEven as the nation struggles against the second, and most severe, wave of Covid-19 infections, fuel prices continue to pinch the 'aam aadmi'. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-google-favours-preserving-work-permit-for-spouses-of-workers-on-h-1b-visa-and-all-the-latest-news-101621003616901.html
14-05-2021||India||Kerala extends lockdown till May 23 amid continuing spike in Covid-19 infections||The Kerala government on Friday decided to extend the ongoing lockdown for one more week in view of the rising cases of Covid-19, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said. Addressing the media through a virtual meet he said the state was passing through a critical phase and the government had been compelled to extend the lockdown. The eight-day lockdown was due to end on May 16 but now it will be in force till May 23. The CM said triple lockdown (strict restrictions like curfew) will be in force in four worst-hit districts of Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam, Thrissur and Malappuram. Earlier the core committee on the pandemic and the Indian Medical Association had sought extension of the lockdown in view of the high test positivity rate in the state. On Friday, Kerala reported 34,696 new Covid-19 cases with a TPR of 26.41 per cent after 1,13,375 people were tested. It also reported 93 deaths taking the death toll to 6243. The active caseload also climbed to 4,42,194 in the state. Thiruvananthapuram district topped the list with 4,567 cases followed by Malappuram with 3,997 cases and Ernakulam with 3,855 new infections. Among those infected, 112 are health workers. Though most of the frontline warriors including health workers have been vaccinated, the second bout of infection has raised worries among medical experts. In some areas the second bout of infection is more than 10 per cent, they said. “Experts say the remaining two weeks are critical for the state. So we need extra caution. We have to rise up to the occasion and we will overcome this also,” said the CM adding that in the four worst-affected districts curbs will be strengthened further to reduce the high TPR. The government has also capped the price of essential products and warned strict action against offenders and hoarders. N-95 masks will be priced at ₹22, triple layer surgical mask ₹4, a PPE kit for ₹273, face shield for ₹21 and fingertip pulse oximeter for ₹1500. Earlier the government had capped charges of private hospitals after many cases of fleecing patients were reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-extends-lockdown-till-may-23-amid-continuing-spike-in-covid-19-infections-101621005720017.html
14-05-2021||India||Rajya Sabha committees can’t meet online, Oppn told. Rules stand in the way||The House committees of Parliament will not be able to meet online amid the raging second wave of Covid19 pandemic as the relevant rules have not been amended, a Rajya Sabha communique to Leader of the Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge said on Friday.Nearly all meetings of the standing committees have come to a standstill in the past few weeks as lawmakers are unable to come to Delhi due to the ongoing Covid pandemic. Last week, Kharge appealed to Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu to allow online meetings as many key subjects and issues are pending for discussion.On Friday, the secretariat wrote back saying that the amendments of rules to allow virtual meetings can be taken up only during the next parliament session. “The issue of confidentiality can be resolved during the session as any amendment to the Rules can be approved by the respective Houses only after the matter is considered by the Rules Committees.”The reply, however, also acknowledged that authorities did consider suggestions to amend the rules during the first Covid wave but the move lost momentum.The letter, signed by a joint secretary-rank official in the secretariat, said: “In a similar situation during the first wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, Hon’ble Chairman and Hon’ble Speaker (Om Birla) had decided in a meeting that the mater regarding holding of virtual meetings of the parliamentary committees vis-à-vis existing provisions and confidentiality of the proceedings of the committees may be referred to the committee on Rules in both the Houses.” “As physical meetings of the committees were being held regularly, following the guidelines strictly, the matter rested there and the situation had not arisen for considering the matter by the Rules Committees,” the letter added.The communication also suggested that the chances of the House panels meeting online now amid this pandemic are slim. “The meetings of the committees can be considered shortly once the situation improves for better”.Opposition leaders rejected this position of the secretariat and made a fresh demand for online meetings.“A wasteful new Parliament building is being constructed in the midst of a national catastrophe, and it is considered an “essential service”. But a simple rule cannot be changed to allow virtual meetings of Standing Committees. Come on Speaker Sir, Chairman Garu!,” tweeted Congress chief whip in Rajya Sabha Jairam Ramesh.Several key meetings including those of the Union cabinet and the PM’s meetings on Covid have been held digitally for the past many months. Recently, the entire council of ministers also held an online meeting.Authorities, however, pointed out these meetings can be easily held in different platforms, but Parliament has to amend its rule books to allow any deviation from the usual format of MPs gathering at one of the committee rooms to discuss issues, call witnesses or adopt a report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajya-sabha-committees-can-t-meet-online-oppn-told-rules-stand-in-the-way-101621005665276.html
14-05-2021||India||YSR Congress MP, who asked court to cancel bail to Jagan, arrested for sedition||YSR Congress lawmaker Kanumuri Raghurama Krishnam Raju was arrested in Hyderabad by Andhra Pradesh’s Crime Investigation Department (CID) on Friday on charges of sedition, disturbing communal harmony and attacking dignitaries of the Jagan Mohan Reddy government, the police said in a statement.A police statement issued after his arrest said a preliminary inquiry against the MP “found that through his speeches on regular basis Mr Raju was indulging in systematic, schematic effort to cause tensions among the communities and by attacking various government dignitaries in a way which will cause loss of faith in the government which they represent”.The arrest comes weeks after Kanumuri Raghurama Krishnam Raju, an outspoken critic of his party chief and Andhra Pradesh chief minister YSR Jagan Mohan Reddy over the last year, asked a special CBI special court on April 27 to cancel the bail granted to Jagan Mohan Reddy. He alleged that the chief minister, released on bail in an alleged disproportionate assets case pending since 2012, had been violating the bail conditions. This request is pending before the judge who asked the CBI and Jagan Mohan Reddy to respond to the charge.Raghurama Krishnam Raju, who represents Narasapuram parliamentary constituency in West Godavari district, was in Hyderabad to celebrate his 59th birthday on Friday when a CID police led by R Vijaya Paul, additional superintendent of police, Guntur, arrested him.The Andhra Pradesh CID statement said a case had been registered against the MP under Section 124-A (sedition) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), for alleged comments against the Jagan Mohan Reddy government, damaging its reputation and inciting hatred among the people. The police have also invoked Section 153 (b) (making comments causing communal disharmony or affecting national integration) and Section 505 (making statements with public mischief) against the MP.Raghurama Krishnam Raju’s son K Bharat told reporters that the CID team forcibly took away his father without disclosing any reasons.“They didn’t even tell us where my father is being taken. How can the cops arrest an MP at a time when the coronavirus pandemic is so severe?” he asked.Bharat said he would file a petition in court against his father’s “illegal arrest”.This isn’t the first time that Raju, a well-known industrialist in the West Godavari district, has gone against Jagan Reddy. Raju quit the party in 2014 after he didn’t get a ticket to contest the Lok Sabha general elections and crossed over to the BJP. He exited the BJP in 2018 and switched to the Telugu Desam Party before returning to the YSR Congress in March 2019 in time for the Lok Sabha elections.Raghurama Krishnam Raju was elected to the Lok Sabha but had a falling out with Jagan Mohan Reddy again last year. He was issued a show-cause notice by the party in June 2020. Jagan Mohan Reddy hasn’t suspended him so far but in October last year, it did ask Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla to disqualify him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ysr-congress-mp-raghurama-krishnam-raju-who-asked-court-to-cancel-bail-to-jagan-arrested-for-sedition-101621003319746.html
14-05-2021||India||‘Enact special law to uphold dignity of dead’: NHRC to Centre, states on Covid-19 victims||With disturbing reports of mishandling of Covid-19 bodies emerging from across the country, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Friday recommended that the government should enact a special legislation to uphold the dignity and protect the right of the dead.It has also recommended that there should not be mass burials/cremations or piling up of bodies during the transportation as it is in violation of the right to dignity of the dead.The apex human rights body sent a detailed advisory to the ministry of home affairs, ministry of health and family welfare and states/union territories in this regard. HT has reviewed the advisory.Asserting that Article 21 of the Constitution extends not only to living persons but also to the dead, the Commission said, “it is the duty of the State to protect the rights of the deceased and prevent crime over the dead body”.Although there is no specific law in India for protecting the rights of the dead, NHRC has pointed out that there are several international covenants, Supreme Court and high court judgements as well as guidelines issued by various governments from time to time emphasizing on maintaining Covid-19 protocol and giving decent burial/cremation according to respective religious customs and practices.The advisory asked authorities to urgently set-up temporary crematoriums in view of the large number of Covid-19 deaths and long queues seen at crematoriums.It said that use of electric crematoriums may be encouraged in order to avoid the health hazards emerging from the emission of smoke from burning pyres in large number; piling up of bodies during transportation or at any other place must not be allowed to happen and mass burial/cremation should not be allowed to take place as it is in violation of the right to dignity of the dead.“In order to ensure that dignity is upheld during handling of bodies, the cremation/burial ground staff must be sensitized about proper handling of the body. Further, they need to be provided necessary safety equipment and facilities so that they may perform their duty efficiently without any fear or risk,” the advisory said.It said the religious rituals that do not require touching of the body may be allowed such as reading from religious scripts, sprinkling holy water, etc, and in cases where the family members are not in a position to perform last rites as they themselves may be infected or are not willing for fear of getting infected, the state/local administration may perform the last rites of the body, taking into account the religious/cultural factors.As of May 13, there were over 2.62 lakh deaths in the country due to the pandemic.Not specific to Covid-19 victims, the human rights agency asked the Centre and states to maintain a district-wise digital dataset of (all) death cases for which it suggested that a dynamic web portal must be created.It also said that digital confirmation of all – Covid-19 or non-Covid19 deaths must be simultaneously updated in all documents such as bank account, Aadhar Card, insurance etc., wherever applicable, to prohibit the scope of any impersonation or illegal monetary transaction.The NHRC further recommended that accurate identification of the body must be done by using different criteria for identification and the state authorities must ensure proper handling of the information about the dead and missing persons in disasters.It said overcharging by ambulances must be regulated and staff handling such bodies must be fairly paid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/enact-special-law-to-uphold-dignity-of-dead-nhrc-to-centre-states-on-covid-19-victims-101620999659559.html
14-05-2021||India||Goa's crematoriums witness rush as Covid-19 cases rise||Even as hospitals in Goa see a surge in Covid-19 cases, the scenes at crematoriums in the coastal state are equally grim, as bodies continue to line up for last rites.One of the oldest crematoriums in Goa located in Margao city had to construct four additional platforms and dedicate three of its existing ones to cater to people who died of Covid-19.The century-old crematorium, managed by Mathagramasth Hindu Sabha, opened its doors to deceased Covid-19 patients after it was found that they were not being entertained by other facilities."We opened our doors to cremate people who died due to Covid-19, as we realised that they were not being taken in by others. This was in June last year when the first death was reported," the president of the facility, Bhai Naik told PTI.The institution is open to cremating deceased Covid-19 patients from all religions, he said.Last rites of deceased patients are performed between 5 pm to 6 pm every day, Naik said."You will see people queuing up with bodies for final rites. The scene is grim," he said.Considering the rush, the civic-run crematorium at St Inez in Panaji has roped in additional resources.An official in charge of this facility said the burden has increased manifold, but there is no other option."We can't send the bodies back. We conduct the final rites after observing all the necessary standard operating procedures," he said.The Corporation of City of Panaji (CCP) on Friday announced that it will waive of additional charges on providing hearse van services to relatives of patients who died of Covid-19 at the Goa Medical College and Hospital.CCP Mayor Rohit Monserratte said ₹100 would be charged for providing No Objection Certificates and ₹500 for ferrying bodies by hearse vans.The facility will be available only for residents of Panaji, he added.As on Thursday, the Covid-19 caseload in Goa was at 1,30,130 and the toll reached 1,937.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goas-crematoriums-witness-rush-as-covid-19-cases-rise-101620997761981.html
14-05-2021||India||Ghazipur administration steps in to offer financial assistance to kin of deceased for cremation||Bihar police on Friday urged the people of Ghazipur not to immerse the mortal remains of the deceased in river Ganga and instead perform their last rites in a dignified manner, and added that those who cannot afford to bear the expenses of cremation must seek the help of the district administration. Police also asked the local residents to remain vigilant and report incidents of outsiders doing so, reported news agency ANI."Please do not perform water burial of bodies into Ganga river, but cremate them. If any person is unable to bear expenses of cremation, please inform us. We will make arrangements." cops announced to locals on a loudspeaker.Ghazipur administration capped the price of firewood at ₹650 per quintal and fixed the amount crematorium workers can charge the kin of the deceased at Rs. 500, adding that those who are unable to bear the expenses will be given a financial assistance of ₹5,000. Control rooms will be set up at crematoriums for police personnel and government clerks will be monitoring the situation.“Ghazipur administration has capped the price of firewood at ₹650/quintal and crematorium workers will not take more than ₹500 for cremating a body. We're setting up a control room at each crematorium where police personnel and lekhpal would be stationed,” said Ghazipur district magistrate MP Singh.“If any person is unable to bear expenses of cremation (of the body of their relative/family member) and goes to any crematorium, we will provide them with ₹5000 immediately and bear all expenses of cremation,” he added.As India faces a deluge of Covid-19 fatalities it led to an artificial increase in the price of firewood across the country. In Uttar Pradesh, firewood for the cremation cost twice the market rate, Reuters reported on Friday.Scores of dead bodies were fished out from the Ganga in Uttar Pradesh’s Ghazipur and Balia districts, and in Bihar’s Buxar. It is not known for sure if the deaths are due to Covid-19 since the bodies are too decomposed for RT-PCR tests. Locals of Buksar village, told Hindustan Times that those who cannot afford to cremate their dead bury them in the shallow banks of Ganga, and these burials have spiked since the panchayat elections in UP ended.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ghazipur-administration-steps-in-to-offer-financial-assistance-to-kin-of-deceased-for-cremation-101620996288819.html
14-05-2021||India||Centres under Digital India registered barely 170,000 for vaccination in May||A little over 170,000 citizens booked Covid-19 vaccine appointments from May 1-10 through Common Service Centres (CSCs), set up under the Digital India scheme to provide last mile access of internet services to people in rural and remote areas without smartphones. According to the official data accessed by HT, 90% of these are at the panchayat level. The numbers are low considering the CSCs provide access to digital services to 400,000-500,000 people on a daily basis, an official familiar with the matter said. Moreover, just a little over 500 million people in the country have access to smartphones. “The numbers are low because appointments slots are not available and, in many cases, centres are shut due to a lockdown in the state,” the official mentioned above said. “Barely 60,000 centres are functional at the moment.”According to the data, the highest number of appointments were made in Maharashtra, 23,699, followed by 18,244 in Bihar, 16,781 in Uttar Pradesh, 15,837 in Odisha, 14,666 in West Bengal and 10,722 in Rajasthan.There are 400,000 operational CSCs across the country, of which 250,000 are present at the panchayat level. In March alone in Uttar Pradesh, CSCs across the state collected over ₹1,000 crore in form of electricity payments alone. Last year, during the lockdown, over ₹10,000 crore was withdrawn from the CSCs across the country.Also Read | Jharkhand CM launches free vaccination drive for people aged 18-44 yrsNational Health Authority chief RS Sharma said that CoWIN, the government’s portal for vaccination registration, has been integrated with the CSCs to allow them to register people. “Most of these centres are located in rural areas and are helping provide services in terms of registration and appointment for vaccination,” he said.However, the trends on CoWIN also show a sharp decline in the number of registrations. From 13,283,056 on April 28, registrations dropped to 3,125,700 on May 12. The government has faced criticism from several sections for being unable to provide equitable access to vaccination, with 12 Opposition parties writing to the Prime Minister on April 12 to ensure vaccination for everyone. According to development economist and IIT professor Reetika Khera, most of the vaccine slots are being taken up by urban people. “Even in urban areas, slots are hard to get,” Khera said. “De facto, online registration has become a way to ‘manage’ vaccine shortage, by funneling them to the vocal urban tech-savvy population. Even if we quadruple the number of bookings per the CSC data, since one phone number can be used to register four people, barely 800,000 will have got a slot.” She added that Chhattisgarh was one of the few states trying to bypass the digital divide and enable access to vaccination for all. “According to national sample survey data 2017, internet facilities can be accessed by only 17% rural areas and 42% in urban areas. This creates a divide that by default puts a large part of the population at a disadvantage,” Khera said.Human rights activist Usha Ramanathan said that CoWIN and Aarogya Setu are privileging vaccination. “If the purpose of the whole exercise is that everyone gets access to vaccination, then this shouldn’t be the system. It seems it wasn’t about vaccination at all but asking people to come report to them.” She said that the disconnect between reporting to the system and not getting access to the service is something we have seen over the last few years. “For people who don’t have phones, it’s not just CSCs, four people can register from one phone number. This idea of nominating a person and conduct through a mobile phone has become the norm. It’s become a very strange space where one must have a smartphone, one must know how to use it and then you may be able to find time for a vaccination slot. This, in a country where a majority doesn’t understand how to use mobile phones, does not work.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centres-under-digital-india-registered-barely-170-000-for-vaccination-in-may-101620996539555.html
14-05-2021||India||Kerala CM Vijayan announces extension of statewide Covid-19 lockdown by a week till May 23||The Kerala government on Friday extended the ongoing Covid-19 lockdown in the state by a week to May 23, due to the increasing number of infections of the coronavirus disease. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan announced the decision mentioning that strict restrictions are necessary to curb the transmission of the disease in the state.“Lockdown is extended till 23 May. Triple lockdown in Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Malappuram. Free food kits in June too. ₹823.23Cr will be distributed as Welfare Pensions in May. Financial assistance of ₹1,000 for all members of Welfare Boards,” CM Vijayan tweeted on Monday.Lockdown is extended till 23 May.Triple lockdown in Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Malappuram.Free food kits in June too. ₹823.23Cr will be distributed as Welfare Pensions in May.Financial assistance of ₹1,000 for all members of Welfare Boards.In a subsequent tweet, the CM also announced that the Kerala Essential Articles Control Act, 1986, is being invoked "to control the prices of articles required for treating Covid-19," listing the commodity and their prices.Kerala Essential Articles Control Act, 1986 is being invoked to control prices of articles required for treating #COVID19.PPE Kits ₹273N95 Mask ₹22Triple Layer Mask ₹3.90Face Shield ₹21Disposable Apron ₹12Surgical Gown ₹65Inspection Gloves ₹5.75Talking to reporters, Vijayan also said that a triple-lockdown has been implemented in the worst affected districts in the state, namely, Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam, Thrissur and Malappuram.Earlier on May 6, the state government announced an eight-day lockdown beginning from May 8 effective till May 16. This has now been extended till May 23 due to the rising number of cases.Meanwhile, services which were exempted under the current lockdown will continue to remain exempted during the extended period too.The chief minister’s announcement came on a day when Kerala reported 34,694 new cases of Covid-19 and 93 related fatalities on the day, taking the state’s cases tally to 2,085,583 and death toll to 6,243, a bulletin from the state health department showed. There are 442,194 active cases of the disease as on date, the bulletin also showed. Meanwhile, 31,319 patients recovered on the day which pushed the overall recoveries to 1,636,790.Also read | India's Covid-19 tally crosses 24 million-mark with 343,144 fresh casesThiruvananthapuram (4,567 new cases), Ernakulam (3,855 new cases), Malappuram (3,997 new cases) and Thrissur (3,162 new cases), where the triple lockdown has been implemented, remained the top contributors to the state’s daily tally on Monday. In terms of active cases, Ernakulam with 69,180 active cases, Thrissur with 56,194 active cases and Malappuram with 50,778 active cases remained the worst affected.During the announcement, Vijayan also said that the second dose of the Covishield Covid-19 vaccine will be given to beneficiaries only after completing 84 days (12 weeks) from the first dose, in line with the central government’s latest directive, news agency ANI reported. He also mentioned that no changes have been made to the interval between the first and second doses of Covaxin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-cm-vijayan-announces-extension-of-statewide-covid-19-lockdown-by-a-week-till-may-23-101620996300651.html
14-05-2021||India||Kerala HC directs Centre to set timeline for supply of vaccines to state||The Kerala High Court on Friday directed the Centre to inform when Covid-19 vaccines needed for the state could be supplied and also set a time-frame for it. Hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) questioning the manufacturing policy, transfer of technology, patent and supply of Covid-19 vaccines, the court expressed concern over the long wait to get jabs. “Give a time-frame within which vaccines can be supplied to the state. If you delay the whole thing, new mutations will come up and people will die. Give a timeline, so we will get a picture,” a bench of Justices Raja Vijayaraghavan and M R Anitha observed. The petitioner (Dr K P Aravindan) contended that there are at least 19 other vaccine manufacturers in the country and if the Centre agrees to transfer technology they can start manufacturing and many lives could be saved. He also questioned the different pricing of vaccines and said authorities should publish information regarding the intellectual property rights of vaccines for the knowledge of the people. He also argued that there is a violation of Article 14 of the Constitution (right to equality) which resulted in creating two classes in the vaccination policy, one price for the Union government and another for the state. He also said that the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the Centre own intellectual property rights of Covaxin. This can be transferred to other manufacturers to increase the production. He said it is possible to incorporate the required bio-safety levels into manufacturing units in a short span of time. At this point, the court observed that the Covid-19 situation in the state was really serious and at the present pace of vaccination it would take a minimum of two years for the whole state to be vaccinated. The lawyer appearing for the Union government said many intricacies were involved in such issues and sought time to file a detailed reply. The court agreed and the PIL will be heard again next Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-hc-directs-centre-to-set-timeline-for-supply-of-vaccines-to-state-101620996359297.html
14-05-2021||India||Pandemic has led to rise in poverty, inequality; don’t be complacent: JNU prof||As India battles the second wave of Covid-19 infections, questions about the pandemic’s economic impact have gained salience. Last year, in order to curb the spread of the pandemic, a 68-day long strict lockdown was imposed on March 25, 2020 — this led to the most severe GDP contraction in post independence-India. This year, while there is no national lockdown, a large number of states have imposed mobility restrictions and economic activity has taken a hit.To understand the possible impact of the pandemic’s second wave on the Indian economy, HT spoke to Himanshu, an associate professor of economics at Jawaharlal Nehru University. Excerpts:The second wave of Covid-19 is far more severe than the first one. There is a view among many economists and institutions that its economic impact will not be as bad as the first one. What do you think? It depends on where you are looking at the economy from. We had a very severe impact last year itself. So obviously compared to last year, the growth rate will not be so bad. But if you compare to 2019-20, we are in a situation where our economy will not recover, in terms of per capita income even to 2019-20 levels. The optimism that you see is based on the fact that we had a contraction of around 8.5%-9% last year, so a similar level of contraction is not possible. But it is a false optimism.Our aggregate GDP numbers are not reflecting the level of stress we are dealing with in the economy, whether in terms of health expenditure, normal expenditure of households or distress in rural areas. But there are pressure points, pain points which are very much visible.Also Read | Jharkhand CM launches free vaccination drive for people aged 18-44 yrsAny complacency on that front can be far more disastrous than the complacency which led us to believe that we have conquered the pandemic. Policymakers should be far more cautious than they are appearing that this time.If GDP numbers do not capture the real pain in the economy, what are the numbers we should we looking at? Let us take the GDP numbers first. If we have an 8.5%-9% contraction in 2020-21, which is what is expected, you need at least a 9.5% growth this year to bring per capita income levels to 2019-20 levels, because our population would have increased. We are certainly going below 9.5%.Everybody has started a downward revision of GDP projections and I think this process (of downward revision) will continue. Even these are overestimates, because we still do not have full data for 2020-21. For example, for non-banking financial companies, we still have data until September-October 2020. Once these numbers come in, we will see some kind of sharp downward revision in 2020-21 GDP estimates. This is a trend (downward revisions in GDP numbers) which has been seen in the last four-five years.What we are missing out is that wage recovery has still not happened. If you compare real wages in both agriculture and non-agriculture, real wages in March 2021 (latest available data) are still lower than March 2019 levels. That is the reality we are talking about. Even private surveys such as the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) show that employment has not recovered to pre-pandemic levels.In 2017-18, we had the last consumption expenditure survey (CES). But it was junked by the government. That (CES) data itself showed that poverty levels had gone up. After that, we have only gone backwards. Level of misery has increased. I think there are pressure points which are very much visible.As far as inflation numbers are concerned, and I have been pointing this out for some time, we are still not out of the woods. We need to be looking at it much more carefully. So, I think we are in a much more precarious situation than we were in April 2020. In April 2020, whatever you say, the economy was slowing down, but we still had positive growth. Today, the economy is not in a position to take two back-to-back years of stress.Last year, the rural economy provided an important cushion to aggregate demand. The pandemic has proliferated in rural areas in a big way. The terms of trade have moved against farmers due to increase in prices of diesel, fertilisers etc. Can we take rural demand for granted going forward? This is precisely the point I was talking about. The last time we were in a similar situation vis-a-vis the rural economy was in 2011-12. Even though food prices were increasing at a sharp pace, because input prices started rising at a faster pace, by 2013-14, agricultural incomes had collapsed. This is something the NITI Aayog has also pointed out.We are now seeing a situation now where demand has already contracted due to the pandemic’s distress. The ability of the government to pump-prime the rural economy through massive stimulus is also curtailed. And now, we have rising input prices. Last year, even though the benefit of fall in petroleum prices was not passed on to consumers, fertiliser and diesel prices did not go up. Since January 2021, there has been a massive increase in petroleum prices. Complex fertiliser prices have already gone up. Experience tells us that urea prices will also follow the same trend. Already fertiliser consumption has declined as per the daily tracker that we have from the Fertiliser Association of India data.Also Read | Uttar Pradesh reports 15,747 new Covid-19 cases, tally goes past 1.59 millionWe also need to remember the pandemic has led to a sharp increase in out-of-pocket health expenditure for a lot of households. Most of the rural households will start with a net debt, and the bulk of it will be from non-institutional sources at very high interest rates.I think rural areas are no longer being seen as something which will lead a recovery in the economy. The question is whether the urban sector can now pull-up the rest of the economy? My own understanding is that is not the case.The April Consumer Price Index (CPI) numbers show a 3% contraction in cereal prices. The government is claiming that it has done record procurement. What explains this trend?Remember that because of the lockdown we did not have proper inflation data in April 2020. What we had were imputed numbers. So that is one factor. But we also have to look at what is happening to international food prices. The Food and Agricultural Organisation’s (FAO) food price index shows a similar trend for cereal prices. But at some point, cereal prices will start firming up. As of now, disinflation in cereal prices is a result of demand deflation, but international factors are also playing a role. But we should not get complacent about it. Food inflation can go up.We do not have a Consumption Expenditure Survey after 2011-12. This means our GDP and CPI series etc. have not been updated. How bad is it from a policymaking perspective, in your view, to be dealing with the biggest ever economic disruption with a set of obsolete statistical database? The fact that most of the data is faulty led to a sense of complacency as far as the government’s response to the pandemic is concerned. The fact that data is not available makes it difficult to even formulate policy. We are not going to come out of this situation. The problem of lack of data is not going to be taken care of in the next year or so. The situation is so bleak because the government has stopped releasing data. A good example is the Situation Assessment Survey of farmers which was completed in 2019 but has still not been released. We are creating a feel-good situation, but the reality cannot be hidden. Just as dead bodies cannot be hidden even if you try and hide the number of infections and cases.Last year’s recovery was seen as profit-led rather than wage-led, where companies squeezed labour costs to maintain profits even though revenues fell. Is this sustainable anymore? No. You must also take into account that the profit-led recovery was also aided by the corporate tax cut in September 2019. So, profits had a god run for last two years. Whatever cost reduction could have been achieved with cutting employee costs has already been reached. With rising commodity prices (which will affect costs) this channel of profit-led growth is not feasible. It is just a matter of time before the chain breaks.There is a legitimate concern about rise in poverty due to the pandemic. What about its impact on the non-poor? They have a disproportionate importance in driving India’s consumption story. Overall, the pandemic has led to an increase in poverty. We might not have the official numbers about increase in poverty, but at least, nobody disagrees on that fact that poverty has increased. Similarly, the impact on inequality is also very clear. That in a way is coming from the nature of recovery. What is not documented is that a large number of middle class, regular employees have moved to the ranks of self-employed workers. Their incomes have declined. There is a shrinking which is happening in the middle (class).Also Read | From UP, a tale of the failure of the Indian stateIncome inequality is going to increase across all dimensions. This is not going to be a one-off impact. It will feed into inter-generational inequality. Access to education itself is determined by what kind of resources you have. A lot of students are falling behind on this count. The effects of this will show five or ten years down the line.What will suffer because of rise in inequality is not essential spending, but discretionary spending. Discretionary spending is what drives economic growth in the long run. It will create a vicious spiral of further generation of inequality.There is a view that the economy bottomed out in 2020-21. We have heard this logic earlier too. Are you saying that the pandemic’s impact could be structural rather than cyclical shock on India’s growth prospects? It is precisely the point that I am talking about. We had these structural factors building up, because the nature of demand itself was skewed in favour of a certain section of the population and their ability to drive the economy was limited.Those structural factors have been widened by the pandemic. We are in a situation where if we do not correct these structural bottlenecks, then we can forget about getting into a sustainable growth rate of 7% GDP growth. Unless of course, there is a big export boost. We should be worried about the policy response to these structural challenges, and if we do not do this, then any recovery might not be sustainable.Also Read | In its hour of need, Quad members stand with IndiaI do not think our policymakers are even thinking about these issues at the moment. We are just hoping against hope that anything that comes down has to go up. We are in a situation where the ship itself is sinking unless the loopholes are plugged in.Going forward, what do you think needs to be done? I can list three things.One, there here has to be a change in the policy paradigm. It is no longer a cyclical shock. It is something which has basically raised questions on the way the economy is structured. Those questions can no longer be avoided. For the last 30 years, most governments have basically tried to push the more difficult questions to subsequent governments and take easy decisions themselves and claim credit for reforms. We have to rethink where the economy is going. That will require an understanding of from where the revenue is to be generated, where demand will come from, what is the role of fiscal policy or inflation management etc. I am talking about broader questions. Many of us do not have the answers, but we have to start talking about these questions.Two, states have to be given their due share, and not just their due share in Goods and Services Tax but also the flexibility of taking their decisions to revive the economy. I think unlike the current centralised approach, a federal approach is needed.Third, the government should pump a lot of money in the economy, whether it is in rural or urban areas. Right now, the economy is in an ICU.Should we forget about the fiscal deficit at the moment? Forget about the fiscal deficit. I really think that monetary policy and fiscal policy do not have a contradiction as long as the objectives are not very clear. The problem with this government is its objectives are not very clear. And if that happens, then fiscal policy will keep on blaming monetary policy and monetary policy will keep on blaming fiscal policy.The objective should be ramp up income, create demand in the domestic economy and provide protection to large majority of the population. These sections will drive our growth in the next decade or the decade after that. We cannot simply hold the assumption that private corporate sector profits are going to drive the economy. That understanding has to change.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pandemic-has-led-to-rise-in-poverty-inequality-don-t-be-complacent-jnuprof-101620996059540.html
14-05-2021||India||Tauktae likely to be a very severe cyclonic storm: IMD||Tauktae, once formed, is likely to intensify into a ‘very severe cyclonic storm’ with wind speed of 150 to 160 kmph gusting to 175 kmph on May 17, according to the latest forecast by the India Meteorological Department (IMD).The depression over Lakshadweep area has moved north-north-eastwards with a speed of about 19 kmph and is now centred over Lakshadweep about 30 km south southwest of Amini Divi, 320 km west-southwest of Kannur (Kerala), 1120 km south southeast of Veraval (Gujarat) at about 11.30 am on May 14.It is very likely to intensify into a cyclonic storm during the next 24 hours and is also expected to intensify further during the subsequent 24 hours. Tauktae is likely to move north north-eastwards initially for some more time and then move north-north westwards and reach the Gujarat coast by May 18 morning.ALSO READ | ‘Tauktae’ likely to be an intense cyclone as oceanic conditions favourable, warn scientistsThere is no consensus among models yet on whether the very severe cyclonic storm will cross the Gujarat coast. “As on today we cannot say very clearly if it will cross the Gujarat coast. But the probability of crossing the coast cannot be ruled out. It may skirt the coast early on May 18. Because it’s a large system, it will bring a lot of heavy and extremely heavy rainfall in its path. It is also an intense system,” said Sunitha Devi, in charge, cyclones at IMD.Most cyclones develop in the Arabian Sea during May end and early June. “Vayu was a very severe cyclonic storm which formed over Arabian Sea in early June in 2019. The 1998 Gujarat cyclone also formed in early June. So, while cyclone formation in May in the Arabian Sea is rare, it often happens when monsoon sets in,” added Sunitha.According to “Assessment of Climate Change over the Indian Region,” a report released by the Union ministry of earth sciences last year, observations indicate that frequency of extremely severe cyclonic storms (ESCS) over the Arabian Sea has increased during the post-monsoon seasons of 1998–2018. Most models are projecting a higher sea surface warming in the Arabian Sea than the Bay of Bengal.ALSO READ | Cyclone Tauktae: NDRF teams deployed in five states“The frequency and intensity of cyclones in the Arabian Sea have increased in recent years. This is because of the rapid warming that has made the relatively cooler Arabian Sea (compared to the Bay of Bengal) a warm pool region that can actively support cyclone formation. Climate projections indicate that Arabian Sea will continue warming under increased carbon emissions, resulting in more intense cyclones in the future,” explained Roxy Mathew Koll, a climate scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology.“Ocean warming has made some new challenges also. Cyclones are now intensifying rapidly since warm ocean waters act as fuel for them. Extremely severe cyclones like Fani and Amphan intensified from a weak to severe status in less than 24 hours due to warm ocean conditions. That gives us less time to be prepared. State-of-the-art cyclone models are unable to pick this rapid intensification because they do not incorporate the ocean dynamics accurately,” he added.Light to moderate rain with extremely heavy rain (over 20 cm) is likely over Lakshadweep on May 13 and 14; over Kerala on May 13; over ghat areas of Tamil Nadu and Karnataka on May 15. It is likely to rain on May 13, 14, 15, 16 and 17 in all these places, the IMD said.In Konkan and Goa, light to moderate rainfall at many places with heavy rainfall at isolated places is very likely on May 15 and heavy to very heavy rainfall at a few places on May 16 and 17. In Gujarat, rainfall activity is very likely to begin from May 17 with a significant increase during the subsequent 2 days and heavy to very heavy rainfall at a few places over Saurashtra and Kutch on May 18 and 19.The major impact from the cyclone is expected over southeast, east-central and northeast Arabian Sea, Lakshadweep – Maldives area and Lakshadweep Islands and along and off Kerala, Karnataka, Goa, Maharashtra, Gujarat coasts. In these areas, very rough to high seas, squally weather and gales around the system centre will affect shipping vessels and fishing operations; inundation of low lying areas of the islands of Lakshadweep during May 14 to 16; very heavy to extremely heavy rainfall causing flash floods and landslides over the coastal districts of Kerala, Karnataka and Goa during May 14 to 16 and Saurashtra, Kutch during May 18; Thunder squalls and lightning could cause adverse impact on human settlements and livestock as well as damage to loose and unsecured structures along the coast line.Fishermen have been advised not to venture into the Arabian Sea during May 14 to 18. Ships too have been advised to avoid the area; ports along the west coast of India may take necessary precautions; naval base operations may maintain necessary precautions; tourism activities may be restricted over the area specified for squally weather and rough sea warning.Conditions are extremely favourable for the rapid intensification of Tauktae. “Ocean heat potential is above normal; sea surface temperatures are 1-2 degree C above normal and the Madden Julian Oscillation (MJO) is also favouring rapid intensification. We should be prepared,” Sunitha Devi had said on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tauktae-likely-to-be-a-very-severe-cyclonic-storm-imd-101620994259463.html
14-05-2021||India||Body of Kerala native Soumya Santhosh to be repatriated from Israel to India today||Union minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan said on Friday that mortal remains of Soumya Santhosh, an Indian national from Kerala, who lost her life in the ongoing conflict between Israel and the Palestine-based Hamas, are being repatriated to India today.Also Read | Body of Kerala nurse killed in rocket attack on Israel, to be brought home soon: CM Vijayan"The mortal remains of Ms Soumya Santhosh, who was killed in rocket attacks from Gaza, are being repatriated today from Israel to Kerala through Delhi. They will reach her native place tomorrow," Muraleedharan tweeted, adding that he will personally receive Santhosh's remains in Delhi.The mortal remains of Ms Soumya Santhosh, who was killed in rocket attacks from Gaza, are being repatriated today from Israel to Kerala through Delhi. They will reach her native place tomorrow. I will personally be receiving the remains in Delhi. May her soul rest in peace.Earlier this week, Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that the state government was in touch with the external affairs ministry and the embassy of Israel in Delhi to bring back the body of the 32-year-old Santhosh, who was working as a caregiver in Israel for the last seven years. A native of Idukki, she lost her life on Tuesday when the building she was residing in, in the Israeli city of Ashkelon, was hit by a rocket fired by Hamas. She was on a video call with her husband when her building was hit by the rocket.Also Read | 'Nothing can compensate for the loss': Israel official offers help to family of Kerala woman killed in rocket attackIsrael's deputy chief of mission to India, Rony Yedidia Clein, on Thursday told news agency ANI that Israeli authorities will take care of Santhosh's family, which includes her nine-year-old son. Ron Malka, the country's ambassador to India, too, reached out to her family, extending his condolences to her near and dear ones. Malka also drew a parallel between Santhosh's son and Moshe, an Israeli teenager who lost his parents as a toddler in Mumbai during the November 26, 2008 terror attacks in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/body-of-kerala-native-soumya-santhosh-to-be-repatriated-from-israel-to-india-today-101620990535198.html
14-05-2021||India||India has administered nearly 180mn Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered nearly 180 million coronavirus vaccine doses by Thursday, May 13. The government also said those who have taken the first dose of Covishield should wait for 12-16 weeks before taking the second shot, even as it assured that the country would get over 2 billion vaccine shots by December.Meanwhile, by Thursday 8pm, 179,177,029 vaccine doses had been given in India. This includes 9,616,697 healthcare workers who have had their first dose and 6,602,553 who have got their second dose as well. As many as 14,314,563 frontline workers have had their first dose while 8,112,476 have got their second dose too.Also Read | Delhi Police team questions Youth Congress chief over Covid-19 assistanceIn the 45-59-year age group, 56,582,401 people have got their first dose and another 8,514,552 have had their second dose as well. In the 60+ category, 54,232,598 people have been administered their first dose while 17,286,501 have had their second dose as well.In the newly added category of 18-44 year age group, 437,192 beneficiaries received their first dose of Covid vaccine on Thursday and cumulatively, 3,914,688 of this age group have been vaccinated across 32 states and Union Territories.As many as 1,975,176 vaccine doses were given by the evening. Of this, 1,010,856 beneficiaries were vaccinated with the first dose and 964,320 beneficiaries received their second dose as well.On Friday, Dr Reddy’s, the Hyderabad-based pharmaceutical company, announced the soft launch of Sputnik V vaccine, adding that it would cost ₹995.40 per shot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-nearly-180mn-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101620991799116.html
14-05-2021||India||Delhi Police team questions Youth Congress chief over Covid-19 assistance||A team of Delhi Police (crime branch) visited the Indian Youth Congress (IYC) office on Friday. IYC chief Srinivas BV told reporters that the police team wanted to know how the Youth Congress is helping people battle the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), adding that their questions were answered by the IYC."They (the Delhi Police team) wanted to know the details of how we are helping people. We answered all their questions," Srinivas told ANI.Congress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala criticised the Delhi Police asking if helping those in need “is a crime”.“Sending Delhi Police to stop Youth Congress and its chief Sirinvas from helping Covid-19 patients is the dreaded face of the Modi government,” Surjewala tweeted.“We will not be scared off, nor will our spirit be broken by such disgusting revenge action. The service will be determined and determined,” he added.The Delhi police has said that this is a part of the enquiry they are conducting under a high court order. Before talking to Srinivas, police had also taken the statements of Aam Aadmi Party MLA Dilip Pandey, Bharatiya Janata Party’s Delhi leader and spokesperson Harish Khurana and former Congress MLA Mukesh Sharma, as a part of the court-ordered enquiry, though no FIR has been lodged against anyone till date.The Delhi high court had on May 4 had ordered police to examine the instances of politicians in the national capital region allegedly procuring and distributing Remdesivir injections, used in treatment of Covid-19 patients, and take steps for lodging of FIR in case of any offence. An individual named Deepak Singh had filed a writ plea seeking probe against politicians for allegedly hoarding and black marketing of essential medicines used in treating Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-police-team-questions-youth-congress-chief-over-covid-19-assistance-101620991092312.html
14-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: 13 dead as oxygen levels drop in Goa medical college and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Oxygen levels drop again at Goa medical college; 13 patients deadOxygen levels at the Goa Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) fluctuated yet again on the intervening night of Thursday and Friday, reportedly causing another 13 deaths. Read more'Met him for 1st time in 2015, always try to talk to him': Bumrah names bowler who played 'major role' in learning curveJasprit Bumrah has gained his place as one of the best fast-bowlers in cricket (if not the best) with impeccable performances in the last 5 years. Read moreAnkita Lokhande teases her wedding plans with Vicky Jain: 'I am super excited about my marriage'Actor Ankita Lokhande has revealed that she is contemplating tying the knot with boyfriend Vicky Jain. The actor has been dating the businessman for three years, and they celebrated their anniversary last month. Read moreBattlegrounds Mobile India pre-registrations to go live on May 18Krafton today announced a new update on the launch of Battlegrounds Mobile India. Pre-registrations for Battlegrounds Mobile India will go live on May 18 in India. It will be available only for Android users who can pre-register the game via the Google Play Store. Read moreSania Mirza twins with son Izhaan in royal green outfit, wishes fans Eid MubarakThe sports star who also makes headlines for her stunning style sense, opted to twin with her adorable little munchkin on the occasion of Eid in a royal green attire and we think that it was the best decision. Read more‘India running Ram Bharosey’: Sanjay Raut’s jibe at PM Modi over Covid crisisShiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut took a jibe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his ministers over the current Covid crisis in the country. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-13-dead-as-oxygen-levels-drop-in-goa-medical-college-and-all-the-latest-news-101620990694690.html
14-05-2021||India||2 killed in grenade blast at Digboi; 2nd incident in a week||Two persons were killed and two others sustained injuries in a grenade blast at a market in Digboi of Tinsukia district of Assam on Friday. According to district officials, the incident took place around 1pm when two men on a motorcycle allegedly lobbed a grenade into a hardware shop at Tingrai Bazaar area.“The incident has claimed the lives of Sanjit Singh and Surajit Talukdar while two others Monjit Das and Ghanashyam Agarwala are injured. Our investigations are on,” said Nimbalkar Vaibhav, the district superintendent of police.Also Read | Bengal Guv Dhankhar to visit Assam to meet post-poll violence hit peopleWhile Singh was a customer at the shop, Surajit Talukdar was an employee at the store. The two injured have been shifted to hospital where they are undergoing treatment. “I have instructed the deputy inspector general (DIG) of police of the range to conduct an investigation and bring those responsible for this incident to book,” Chief Minister Himata Biswa Sarma said in Guwahati. He later tweeted that the union home minister Amit Shah had phoned him and inquired about the incident.Friday’s incident comes three days after a 12-year-old boy was killed when a grenade, which he found lying on the roadside, went off in Kotha Adarsha Gaon in Tinsukia district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/grenade-blast-in-assam-s-tinsukia-leaves-one-dead-2-injured-101620990779136.html
14-05-2021||India||India’s Covid-19 crisis pushes up the cost of living and dying||Ashok Khondare, a 39-year-old vegetable seller in the western Indian city of Pune, had already borrowed money to pay for his sister's treatment when she died in a private hospital two weeks after contacting Covid-19.While trying to overcome the tragedy, he also had to deal with money problems that increased with his sister's death.The only available hearse driver charged 5,000 Indian rupees ($68) for a 6-km (four-mile) journey to the nearest crematorium – five times the going rate. When Khondare reached there, there was a long queue of dead bodies and waits of more than a day. He agreed to pay another 7,000 rupees to jump the queue."I had been experiencing a terrible situation for a fortnight," he said. "I couldn't sleep or eat properly. I wanted to end this as early as possible and didn't mind paying an irrational amount."India’s second wave of the coronavirus has not only created shortages of oxygen, medicines and hospital beds, but also of wood for funeral pyres, hearses and crematorium slots, forcing people like Khondare to pay exorbitant amounts to perform the last rites of loved ones.India is reporting by far the highest number of new daily cases globally, and over 4,000 deaths per day – figures that are almost certainly under-reported, according to experts.India’s Hindu majority cremates its dead, and the huge numbers of deaths are creating backlogs at cremation grounds and shortages of manpower and raw materials."There is huge demand for firewood used for funeral pyres at crematoria, but supplies are not sufficient," said Rohit Pardeshi, a firewood merchant in Satara, a city in the western Indian state of Maharashtra.Due to a local lockdown designed to curb the pandemic, there is a shortage of people to cut trees and those workers who are available are asking for higher wages."This has created a shortage of firewood and lifted prices," Pardeshi said.Retail prices for firewood are up by at least 30 percent, and have more than doubled in some areas, said a second firewood seller in the same city.In the north Indian state of Uttar Pradesh, 24-year-old Mukul Chaudhary faced similar problems after his mother died in the state capital Lucknow.The ambulance driver who dropped his mother off at the hospital for 5,000 rupees charged even more to take her body to the crematorium."We had to beg him not to overcharge us further," Chaudhary said.Firewood for the cremation cost double the normal rate, while the priest who performed the last rites charged the family 5,000 rupees – two to five times the usual amount.Rohit Jangam, a Hindu priest in Satara, said many priests there were refusing to enter crematoriums out of fear, and those who were willing were charging higher prices."It is too risky to perform the last rites of those died because of coronavirus," he said. "If someone asks, I do, but I charge more since I am taking the risk."He declined to disclose how much more he was charging.Oxygen RacketFor Covid patients who manage to survive, black marketing of medical supplies is rampant, with desperate relatives paying huge sums in what is still a low-income country.In the capital New Delhi, oxygen cylinders have changed hands for as much as 70,000 rupees, according to interviews with relatives – twenty times the usual price and many times the monthly salary of the average Indian.Police there have made more than 100 arrests in cases connected with overcharging, including for drugs, ambulance services and hospital beds.Arveena Sharma, a 28-year-old lawyer from Noida, a satellite city of New Delhi, has helped more than a dozen Covid patients who are friends and relatives get oxygen and medical supplies in the last month. Almost all of them have overpaid significantly."They're like vultures," she said of those selling black market drugs."You are standing in front of me with something which might save me and you’re looking at my pocket." ($1 = 73.3130 Indian rupees)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-covid-19-crisis-pushes-up-the-cost-of-living-and-dying-101620990109652.html
14-05-2021||India||Congress brings up pre-poll promise of free vaccination in Bihar; urges Centre not to ‘burden’ states to procure vaccine||Congress on Friday hit out at the Centre over the pre-poll promise of delivering free vaccines against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) they made in Bihar and asking why the responsibility of procuring vaccines has now been left to the states.“In the Bihar elections, you (the Prime Minister) and the finance minister had declared that free vaccines would be available, was it a jumla?” said Congress leader Shaktisinh Gohil in a tweet.“Why are you putting the burden on the states today? Why are you blaming your sins on the states?” he added.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) while campaigning for the Bihar legislative assembly elections had promised to provide vaccines to citizens free of cost. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had launched the election manifesto, promising free vaccination amongst other things, in Patna in October of last year. A similar promise was reiterated during poll campaigning in Bengal.Bihar has been in the news lately for a tragic incident where 82 bodies were recovered from the Ganga in the state’s Buxar district. The bodies are believed to have floated downstream from Uttar Pradesh. It spread panic amongst locals who feared Covid-19 might have led to the deaths.Buxar district magistrate Aman Samir told Hindustan Times that continuous patrols were being carried out in Chakki, Simri, Brahmpur and Chausa, and the people have been asked not to bathe in the river since it is not known why the deaths occurred.“People are being advised to avoid taking bath in the river. Since all bodies are floating downstream from the direction of Uttar Pradesh, it is not known what disease claimed them,” he said.Congress also reiterated its previous demand of doing away with the required 28% GST levied on medical supplies for corona and on ambulance rides, and urged the Prime Minister to vaccinate 60% of the population, through a “universal vaccination” programme, to stop a “third wave” of Covid-19 from happening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-brings-up-pre-poll-promise-of-free-vaccination-in-bihar-urges-centre-not-to-burden-states-to-procure-vaccines-101620987482109.html
14-05-2021||India||Navy to pick 2,000 tonnes of oxygen from UAE, Kuwait and Qatar to battle Covid||After successfully establishing two logistics lines with key allies in West Asia and South-East Asia, the Indian Navy is expected to pick up 600 metric tonnes (MT) of liquid medical oxygen from Qatar, 400 MTs from United Arab Emirates (UAE) and 1000 MTs from Kuwait in the next 30 days. Landing Ship Tank (LST) INS Shardul is already in Kuwait since May 12 and will depart for India on May 15 with 120 MTs of liquid oxygen.Just as India came to the aid of these countries during the first wave of the pandemic, the West Asian allies with countries like France adding to the heft, have established an “Oxygen Solidarity Bridge” with India since April 29. “The Indian Navy has established two logistics lines, one with the Gulf countries, other with South East Asian countries led by Singapore. The planned pick of medical oxygen from Gulf countries is highly dynamic and numbers can change. But the fact remains is that India’s Gulf Allies are standing with it in times of medical distress,” said an Admiral.In fact, the Indian Navy and Indian Air Force are working in a “jugalbandi” mode with the former ferrying filled 20 MT liquid medical oxygen containers from Gulf region and the latter facilitating the return of empty containers for refilling and consequent refilling again. “All the strategic lift ships that is LST and Landing Transport Docks have been deployed for lifting critical medical supplies. In fact, all the six ships deployed in the Gulf and Arabian Sea for Exercise Varuna with the French Navy were diverted to Bahrain, Qatar and Kuwait. INS Shardul was dispatched from Kochi to the Gulf region. As of now, 260 MTs of LMO and 2000 filled oxygen cylinders have been delivered to Indian shores from warships deployed in the western Indian Ocean region. For example:• INS Talwar picked up 40 MT of LMO from Manana, Bahrain on May 1.• INS Trikhand and INS Tarkash picked up 80 MT of LMO from Doha, Qatar on May 6 and 8 respectively. These supplies were facilitated by Air Liquide, France using their oxygen plant in Qatar.• INS Kochi and INS Tabar picked up 140 MT of LMO and 1400 oxygen cylinders from Kuwait on May 6.• INS Kolkata picked 200 oxygen cylinders from Doha on May 4 and 40 MT of LMO from Doha on May 5.Majority supplies of LMO secured from either West Asia or South East Asia are to decimate the Covid-19 infection in South, East and Western India as the positivity rate is expected to go up in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/navy-to-pick-2-000-tonnes-of-oxygen-from-uae-kuwait-and-qatar-to-battle-covid-101620986421330.html
14-05-2021||India||Gap between Covishield doses increased to 12-16 weeks: What experts say||India on Thursday accepted the recommendation of the government's expert panel and increased the gap between two doses of Covishield to 12 to 16 weeks. This was the second time the gap was revised since January when the country rolled out its vaccination drive. Amid attack from the opposition that this is a move to cover up the present vaccine shortage of the country, White House chief medical adviser Dr Anthony Fauci told news agency ANI that this is a reasonable thing to do."Dramatically ramping up COVID-19 vaccination drive is key to ending the crisis in India and extending the gap between two doses of Covishield is a reasonable approach," White House chief medical adviser Dr Anthony Fauci told ANI in an exclusive interview on Thursday.Watch: 'Extended gap between 2 doses of Covishield reasonable approach': Dr Fauci||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gap-between-covishield-doses-increased-to-12-16-weeks-what-experts-say-101620982789902.html
14-05-2021||India||Telangana refuses entry to Covid patients from Andhra Pradesh at border check points||The Telangana police on Friday denied entry to ambulances and vehicles carrying Covid-19 patients from Andhra Pradesh into the state at the border.The Suryapet Superintendent of Police (SP), R. Bhaskaran, in a statement said that all ambulances coming from Andhra Pradesh to Telangana for Covid treatment, and personal vehicles were being checked. Those coming for treatment would only be allowed into Telangana if they had a hospital appointment as well as an authorization pass from the Director of Health Covid control center.People must have both the documents and then only they should come to Telangana, he added.Many ambulances from Andhra Pradesh were stopped at Garikapadu's checkpoint for hours.A woman said that she was stuck at Gadwal, Andhra Pradesh-Telangana border since 4 am in the morning."They have stopped us since 4 am. As oxygen was about to finish the reporters helped me. I went back to the Kurnool area and filled the oxygen in an ambulance and came back. Even this oxygen will only last for two hours," said the woman.She further said that no one was responding from the Andhra Pradesh or the Telangana government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-refuses-entry-to-covid-patients-from-andhra-pradesh-at-border-check-points-101620981857235.html
14-05-2021||India||Dr Reddy’s announces soft launch of Sputnik; vaccine to cost ₹995.40 per shot||Russian made Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine, Sputnik V, has been soft launched in India, with the first dose administered in Hyderabad on Friday, announced Dr Reddy’s laboratories in a statement.The vaccine is priced at ₹995.40 per shot in the market, with a possibility of prices coming down further once local production starts.Dr Reddy’s labs is the licensed distributors of the vaccine in India.The first consignment carrying 150,000 doses of the vaccine landed in Hyderabad on May 1.“...the first consignment of imported doses of the Sputnik V vaccine that landed in India on 1st May, 2021, received regulatory clearance from the Central Drugs Laboratory, Kasauli, on 13th May, 2021. As part of a limited pilot, the soft launch of the vaccine has commenced and the first dose of the vaccine was administered in Hyderabad today on 14th May, 2021,” said Dr Reddy’s in a statement.Also Watch | ‘India won’t lose hope, will fight & win’: PM Modi on Covid second waveFurther consignments of imported doses are expected over the coming months. Production of the vaccine locally is likely to start around July.“The imported doses of the vaccine are presently priced at an MRP of ₹948 + 5% GST per dose, with the possibility of a lower price point when local supply begins. The company is working closely with its six manufacturing partners in India to fulfil regulatory requirements to ensure smooth and timely supply,” the company statement read.Sputnik V is the third vaccine to be given Emergency Use Authorisation in India after Oxford University -AstraZeneca developed Covishield and Bharat Biotech manufactured Covaxin. India has also allowed citizens over the age of 18 years to receive Covid-19 vaccinations beginning May 1.“With the rising cases in India, vaccination is our most effective tool in our battle against Covid-19. Contributing to the vaccination drive in India is our biggest priority right now to help Indians be healthy and safe,” said GV Prasad, co-chairman and managing director, Dr Reddy’s.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dr-reddy-s-announces-soft-launch-of-sputnik-vaccine-to-cost-rs-995-40-per-shot-101620981778422.html
14-05-2021||India||As your Pradhan Sevak, I feel your pain of losing loved ones, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said that he too feels the same pain and loss that people across the country are feeling after losing loved ones to Covid-19.While speaking on the occasion of the transfer of the eighth installment under the PM Kisan, PM Modi called the coronavirus an 'invisible enemy' and urged people to continue taking precautions such as social distancing and using face masks to protect themselves and their families."After 100 years, such a terrible epidemic is testing the world, step by step. There is an invisible enemy in front of us. We have lost many of our close ones to this enemy," he said."The pain that the countrymen have endured, the pain that many people have gone through, I feel the same pain. Being your 'Pradhan Sevak', I share your sentiment," PM Modi added.He further urged people to get vaccinated as it the best defence again Covid-19 and said that the Central and State governments are doing their best to increase vaccination."The corona vaccine is a great means of defence. The Central and state Governments together are making continuous efforts to enable more and more countrymen to get vaccinated at a rapid pace. So far, around 18 crore vaccine doses have been given across the country," he said."Free vaccination is being done in government hospitals across the country. So whenever your turn comes, make sure to get inoculated. This will give us protection and reduce the risk of serious illness," he said.India on Friday reported 3,43,144 new Covid-19 cases, 3,44,776 recoveries and 4,000 deaths, taking the total cases in the country to 2,40,46,809, the Union Health Ministry reported.As many as 2,00,79,599 recoveries and 2,62,317 deaths have been recorded in the country since the beginning of the pandemic.There are currently 37,04,893 active cases and a total of 17,92,98,584 doses of Covid-19 vaccines have been administered so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-your-pradhan-sevak-i-feel-your-pain-of-losing-loved-ones-says-pm-modi-101620979683393.html
14-05-2021||India||Karnataka Congress drafts ₹100 crore plan to procure Covid vaccines||The Congress in Karnataka on Friday said it has prepared a ₹100 crore plan to procure vaccines directly from manufacturers.DK Shivakumar, the president of the state unit of the party, said that ₹10 crore will come from the Congress and the remaining ₹90 crore can come from funds of their MLA/MLC funds.“I appeal to the Yediyurappa government to please allow us to use the MLA/MLC funds to procure vaccines directly in a transparent manner because the Modi and Yediyurappa governments are failing to do so for months now,” Shivakumar said in a statement.Also Read | Covaxin dispatched to Gujarat, Assam, TN, Karnataka and Odisha: Bharat Biotech“Since the Central, and state governments have collectively failed to vaccinate the masses, we want to do it ourselves. We just need two small permissions, one from the Centre and the other from the state government. My appeal to the BJP to not let politics come in the way and in the spirit of Atmanirbhar Bharat, allow the Congress to directly procure and administer vaccines,” he said.However, there remains little clarity on how the party proposes to procure the vaccines as the entire country is currently facing shortages.There wasn’t an immediate response from the government.Karnataka has suspended vaccination for those in the 18-44 age group amid shortage of vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-congress-drafts-rs-100-crore-plan-to-procure-covid-vaccines-101620979138544.html
14-05-2021||India||Covid-19: Imported Sputnik V vaccine to cost ₹995.40 per shot, doses made in India may be cheaper||Imported coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine produced by Russia, Sputnik V, will cost ₹995.40 per dose in India while the price of vaccines produced in the country may be lower, according to a release issued by pharmaceutical company Dr. Reddy's Laboratories. This price includes the GST, which is five per cent per dose, said the Indian manufacturer of the Russian Covid-19 vaccine.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageMeanwhile, as part of a limited pilot launch of Sputnik V in the country, the first dose of the vaccine was administered in Hyderabad, according to PTI."The first consignment of imported doses of the Sputnik V vaccine landed in India on May 1, and received regulatory clearance from the Central Drugs Laboratory, Kasauli, on May 13, 2021," the pharma company said.The vaccine was given emergency use authorisation (EUA) by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) in April.On Thursday, the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) announced that the vaccine will be available in markets across the country from early next week.Also Read: India, Russia together against Covid-19, says Russian envoy as Sputnik V arrivesDr VK Paul, member, NITI Aayog made the announcement during a press meet. The local production of Sputnik V will begin in July, he said.Sputnik V vaccine, first approved in Russia on August 11, 2020, is widely considered the first vaccine against the viral disease. It has an efficacy of 91.6%, according to the Lancet Medical Journal. It will be the third vaccine to be in use in India.The other two vaccines being administered to people in India are Covishield and Covaxin. Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) is manufacturing the Oxford University-AstraZeneca shot as Covishield and Bharat Biotech International Limited, located in Hyderabad, has made Covaxin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-imported-sputnik-v-vaccine-to-cost-rs-995-40-per-shot-doses-made-in-india-may-be-cheaper-101620975854634.html
14-05-2021||India||Covaxin dispatched to Gujarat, Assam, TN, Karnataka and Odisha: Bharat Biotech||Bharat Biotech on Friday said it has dispatched Covid vaccine Covaxin to various states like Gujarat, Assam, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Odisha.The Hyderabad-based vaccine major, which has come under fire from the Delhi government over supply-related issues, said it has also dispatched Covaxin lots to Kerala and Uttarakhand."Covaxin goes to Gandhinagar, Guwahati, Chennai, Hyderabad, Bengaluru & Bhuvneshwar. thank all our employees @ BHarat bio who worked thru the holy month of Ramzan..." Bharat Biotech Co-Founder and Joint Managing Director Suchitra Ella said in a tweet.Earlier in a late night tweet on Thursday, she tweeted informing supply of the much in demand vaccine to Kerala and Uttarakhand."Covaxin sent to Kerala & Uttarakhand. Thanq for the concern, many offered to help. Our work is highly stringent, realtime & technical,no work from home! All Our employees will be taken care of, won't deter us from our mission! Let's be thankful,helpful & hopeful always," she tweeted.Ella however did not provide details on the quantum of supplies.On May 12, Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said that Bharat Biotech has informed the state government that it cannot provide 'additional' Covaxin doses to the national capital.Responding to the criticism, Ella in a tweet said that It was quite disheartening to listen to some states complaining about the company's intentions regarding supply of Covaxin.She said that the company had already dispatched Covaxin lots to 18 states on May 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covaxin-dispatched-to-gujarat-assam-tn-karnataka-and-odisha-bharat-biotech-101620973686904.html
14-05-2021||India||After image-building jibe, Anupam Kher says 'those who work make mistakes'||Actor Anupam Kher created a stir by his apparent jibe at the BJP government as in a television interview he said that the government must understand that there is more to life than image building. While the snub from an actor who profusely endorsed BJP and PM Modi was a shocker, on Friday, the actor posted a cryptic tweet without clarifying the context. In his message, he said mistakes are made by those who work, while those who do not work spend their lives finding faults with others. His tweet comes across as praise for the BJP — an apparent attempt to offset his earlier comment.गलती उन्हीं से होती है जो काम करते हैं, निकम्मों की ज़िंदगी तो दूसरों की बुराई खोजने में ही ख़त्म हो जाती है..:)'More to life than image building': Anupam Kher says Centre 'slipped' in Covid-19 responseIn the interview, the former chief of the Film and Television Institute of India said that the government had slipped somewhere in its management of the pandemic situation, news agency PTI reported. He also emphasised that for opposition parties too, it was not right to capitalise on the pandemic situation."I think the criticism is valid in lots of cases... Only an inhuman person will not get affected by the bodies floating (in the rivers)," Anupam Kher said referring to the reports of bodies floating in the Ganga."But for another political party to use it for their gain, I think that is also not right. I think we should, as people, get angry. It is important to hold the government responsible for what's happening. Somewhere they have slipped. It is time for them to understand that there is much more to life than just image building maybe," he added."There are problems, pain, anger, frustration, that's obvious... Lot of people say 'You are always so optimistic', but I say there's no other way out for me. Our lives haven't been smooth sailing. It is just that this situation has happened on a world level," the actor said, as quotedby PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-image-building-jibe-anupam-kher-says-those-who-work-make-mistakes-101620975129660.html
14-05-2021||India||Bihar sees drop in new Covid cases; Patna remains hot spot||Bihar showed a steady decline in Covid cases with 7,752 new cases, but the number of deaths went up to 90 during the last 24 hours on Thursday even as the state extended the lockdown to May 25. Bihar reported the highest Covid-19 deaths in a day this month on May 4 when 105 patients succumbed to the SARS-CoV-2 virus. Patna, with 1,485 new infections and 16 deaths reported on Thursday, remained a hot spot after daily fresh cases dropped to 977 on Wednesday. Also Read | Bihar extends lockdown till May 25, test positivity rate dips to 8.9%Nalanda with 551 cases, Vaishali 437, Purnia 409, West Champaran 320 and Saharsa 277 were among the other leading contributors. Bihar’s recovery inched up to 84.15% after 11,008 patients were discharged from different facilities, taking the total recoveries so far to 530,314. The test positivity ratio, which is the number of people testing positive for the virus out of those tested, had slid to 8.8% on May 12. It was 15.6% when Bihar announced lockdown on May 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-sees-drop-in-new-covid-cases-patna-remains-hot-spot-101620973918006.html
14-05-2021||India||With 12,390 new infections, Odisha sees sudden increase in Covid-19 cases||Odisha recorded a sudden surge in Covid-19 cases on Friday as the state reported 12,390 new cases in the last 24 hours, according to the state health bulletin.As many as 10,649 new Covid-19 cases were reported in Odisha on Thursday.The state also recorded 22 Covid-related deaths while 8,665 people recovered from the disease in the last 24 hours.Out of fresh Covid cases reported, 6,938 people got injected in quarantine, while 5,452 caught the infection from local contacts.The total cases now stand at 5,88,687 including 4,82,345 recoveries and 2,273 deaths. At present, there are 10,4016 active cases in the state.As per the government data, the state has tested 1,07,69,312 samples so far.One of the worst-hit districts of the state is Bargarh, which has reported 507 new cases in the last 24 hours, which is the highest among other 31 districts of the states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-12-390-new-infections-odisha-sees-sudden-increase-in-covid-19-cases-101620972387313.html
14-05-2021||India||Sterlite Copper oxygen plant develops 'technical snag'; production halted||Vedanta Ltd owned Sterlite Copper Plant which recently, commenced production of medical oxygen at its facility in Tamil Nadu has faced a 'technical snag' in a cold box leading to a suspension of production, the company said on Friday.The facility began production of medical oxygen and the first set of medical oxygen tankers was dispatched to the beneficiaries on Thursday from the Tuticorin plant, located about 600 kms from here.In a statement on Friday, the company said, "a technical snag has developed in the cold box at our oxygen plant in Tuticorin, leading to a temporary pause in production."The company said it anticipated a 'minor technical fluctuation' since the plant remained unattended for three years.A technical expert group has been onsite from day one to monitor the situation and to provide real-time solutions to resume production at the earliest."We plan to return to stabilised production soon," the company said.On Thursday, the company said with the production of medical oxygen, it would initially dispatch two oxygen tankers on a daily basis and later it would be 'scaled up' by ramping up production.The oxygen supplied is of 98.6 per cent purity and has received the necessary certifications for its use.The Sterlite copper smelter plant was given approval by the then AIADMK government on April 26 at an all-party meeting to produce medical oxygen at its facility for a period of four months at the facility in Tuticorin.The unit was sealed by the state government in May 2018, days after 13 agitators who were part of a protest against the company over environmental concerns were killed in police firing during a violent anti-Sterlite stir in the southern district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sterlite-copper-oxygen-plant-develops-technical-snag-production-halted-101620971295073.html
14-05-2021||India||PM Modi releases eighth instalment of financial benefit under PM Kisan scheme||Prime Minister Narendra Modi released the eighth instalment of the financial benefit under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM Kisan) scheme via video conferencing on Friday.As part of this instalment, more than Rs19,000 crore was transferred in the bank accounts of over 9.5 crore beneficiary farmer families. This is the highest amount paid by the government under the scheme in a single instalment."As part of this scheme, the government is working towards encouraging farmers to take up alternative forms of farming such as organic farming. These crop require less investment. They are good for health and for the soil too. It also sells for a higher amount," he said.Also watch | Covid | ‘Stop central vista, repeal farm laws’: Leaders write to PM Modi﻿"All farmers, especially from Punjab, are satisfied with the scheme. I have seen many videos of farmers expressing their satisfaction on social media," PM Modi said.Also Read | PM-Kisan scheme completes 2 years: All you need to knowThe PM also interacted with the beneficiaries of the scheme after releasing the amount. Talking to a farmer from Andhra Pradesh, who turned a piece of barren land into suitable land for organic farming, the PM said, "You have set an example for others. Your self confidence speaks for your ability and experience." The farmer from the southern state told PM Modi that she grows three crops on her land throughout the year.Talking to a farmer from Meghalaya who has set up a business model for organic farming, PM Modi said as many as 10,000 Farmer Producer Organisation (FPO) were being set up in the country and small farmers were also getting associated with them. "Your confidence in what you do makes your model a sought-after one," the PM told the farmer.Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar was also present at the event. "West bengal has joined the scheme with more than 7 lakh farmers of the state getting the benefit today," he said.The scheme, launched in 2019, was a National Democratic Alliance (NDA) flagship project that aimed at providing financial support to the farmers of the country. Under the scheme, ₹6000 is transferred to the beneficiaries' bank accounts per year. This amount is paid in quarterly installments of ₹2000 each. The scheme covers all but affluent farmers. Until now, ₹1.15 lakh crore has been transferred to farmer families under the scheme, a government release issued on Thursday claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-releases-eighth-instalment-of-financial-benefit-under-pm-kisan-scheme-101620952285054.html
14-05-2021||India||Oxygen levels drop again at Goa medical college; 13 patients dead||Oxygen levels at the Goa Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) fluctuated yet again on the intervening night of Thursday and Friday, reportedly causing another 13 deaths. Resident doctors began reporting fluctuations around 9.30pm that went on till 2.30am in the wards assigned to Covid patients.GMCH, which has now seen 75 deaths owing to dropping levels over the past few days, has reported fluctuations for six nights in a row now.Patients’ relatives began sending out help messages on social media, prompting officials from the health department, including health secretary Ravi Dhawan, to rush to the hospital to ensure the supply is restored, which happened around 2.30am.“Health department officials have reached the site (and have) said they were trying the dura cylinders (new bigger cylinders that are being installed at GMC), which is why the drop happened,” Shruti Chaturvedi, who has filed a petition in the high court over Covid management in the state, said.Goa Forward Pary chief Vijai Sardesai claimed that 13 people succumbed during the ‘dark’ hours due to the low levels of oxygen on Thursday and 75 over four nights, a figure that was not independently confirmed by the health authorities. PTI cited a senior health official as confirming that 13 more patients, admitted in various Covid-19 wards in the GMCH, had died in the early hours.Also Read | How to vaccinate 10 million people a day“In all, 75 people have died during the dark hour, that is between 1am and 6am, in the last four consecutive nights. On the 10th (May) night, it was 26 people, on the 11th night, it was 21 people, on the 12th night it was 15 people and now, last night, it was 13 people. So, 75 people have died on four consecutive nights, because of oxygen shortage, basically mismanagement of oxygen supply at GMCH,” he said.The Goa government has claimed before the Bombay high court at Goa that is currently hearing a bunch of petitions concerning Covid management in the state, that the issues plaguing the GMCH are logistical rather than supply.“There were logistical issues involved in manoeuvring the tractor which carries the trolleys of oxygen, and in connecting the cylinders to the manifold. During this process there was some interruption, which resulted in fall of pressure in the supply lines of oxygen to the patients. It is basically on account of these factors some casualties may have taken place,” the state government told the court on Thursday.They assured the court that the issues would be sorted out.The Goa government has also set up an independent committee headed by IIT-Goa director Dr BK Mishra to inquire into the supply issues at the state’s premier research institute. The committee also consists of Dr VN Jindal, a former dean of the GMCH, and secretary, urban development, Tariq Thomas.The high court had earlier made it clear that the Goa government should not seek to hide behind logistic excuses for proper supply not being maintained. (With PTI input)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oxygen-levels-drop-yet-again-at-goa-medical-college-issue-sorted-by-230am-101620970077689.html
14-05-2021||India||Gir farmers, Kashmir driver, Agra woman: Centre lauds Covid warriors||The raging second wave of the coronavirus pandemic saw common men turning into saviours gathering whatever resources they can for those who are in need. The Centre, through its mygovindia handle on social media, lauded such a few instances as its "daily dose of positive news" about Covid warriors.Kashmir's Manzoor Ahmed is a truck driver. As an asthmatic himself, Manzoor is on 24X7 oxygen support and knows the importance of oxygen. As Covid-19 patients are struggling in want of oxygen, Manzoor has decided to use his truck for delivering oxygen cylinders to Covid patients.Here's your daily dose of #PositiveNews about #COVIDWarriors who are putting up a strong fight against #COVID19! Take a look! #IndiaFightsCorona #TogetherWeCan pic.twitter.com/1iUeZFXnEaFarmers of Gujarat's Gir have decided to give free coconuts to the Covid patients admitted at Junagadh Civil Hospital as coconut water is recommended for the nutrition of patients suffering from the infection.Another inspiring story that the government shared is of Agra's Nina Muniyal, who has started a free delivery of home-cooked food to covid-19 patients. On a day, she provides home-cooked nutritious meals to over 100 patients.Mygov is a government platform for citizen engagement. On social media, it shares the latest updates of Covid-19, government initiatives and inspiring stories of Covid warriors. A few days ago, it shared the story of Dattatraya Sawant, a part-time teacher of Mumbai who transformed his auto into a makeshift ambulance. NCC cadet Divyanshi was praised for arranging free oxygen refills in Delhi. Three students of Don Bosco College Fatorda was lauded for designing a sanitising robot that can save workers from chemical exposure. The platform is also sharing the works done by every government department towards fighting the ongoing pandemic. CEO of Mygov Abhishek Singh recently conducted a workshop of central government officials to "create a positive image of the givernment".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gir-farmers-kashmir-driver-agra-woman-centre-lauds-covid-warriors-101620968834004.html
14-05-2021||India||Renowned obstetrician, gynaecologist SK Bhandari, who delivered Priyanka Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi, dies of Covid-19||One of the longest serving doctors at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital here and renowned obstetrician and gynaecologist Dr S K Bhandari died on Thursday due to Covid-19 related complications, officials said.Dr Bhandari, who delivered Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, his sister Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and her two children, was 86.She was admitted to the hospital two weeks back for some heart-related issues but tested positive for Covid-19, said Dr D S Rana, chairman of Sir Ganga Ram Hospital.He said that the virus worsened her health issues and she passed away at 2 pm on Thursday.Dr Bhandari had received both the doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, he added.Her husband, a retired IAS officer, aged 97, is also in the ICU after he tested positive for Covid-19 and he has not been informed about his wife''s death, he said.In a series of tweets, Priyanka Gandhi condoled the demise of the senior doctor."Dr. S.K. Bhandari, Emeritus Consultant, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, who delivered my brother, me, my son and my daughter passed away today. Even in her late seventies, she would drive early morning to the hospital herself. A leader to the end, she upheld every noble trait of humanity. A woman I will always respect and admire, a friend I will always miss," she posted on Twitter.Rana said Bhandari had served the hospital for 58 years. She had joined the hospital after returning to Delhi from London where she did her post-graduation.She was the one who established the gynaecology and obstetrics department of the hospital and even though she was not an IVF specialist, she encouraged doctors in setting up the facility at the hospital, Rana said.She was coming to the hospital during the first wave of the pandemic but stopped coming after she developed heart-related issues. She was offering consultation from her home."When I came to Delhi 30-40 years ago, there were only two renowned gyanaecologists in Delhi -- Dr S K Bhandari and Dr Sheila Mehra of Moolchand Medcity. She was like a mother figure to me and the loss is quite huge," he said.Dr Bhandari has a daughter, who is also a doctor, and was taking care of her ailing parents.Dr Abha Majumdar, director and head of IVF at the Ganga Ram Hospital, said there was an unsaid bond between them."We hardly had to say anything to each other. I always knew she was there to support me and she knew that I was heading towards my goal. She was like a mother figure and she was the one who helped me realise my calling," she told PTI.Dr Majumdar had joined the hospital in February, 1987 and was taking care of the free infertility OPD on Thursdays. After almost a year, Dr Bhandari, who was the head of the Obstetriics and Gynaecology Department, asked her about her area of interest and she said it was infertility treatment. She encouraged us to explore the field, she recalled."She had the vision. When she learnt I was interested in infertility treatment, she said that you will have to put your whole and soul into it and you won''t be taking up general gynae cases. I was advised by so many other obstetrics and gynaecologists that how will you mange your bread and butter doing IVF? I give my full credit to Dr Bhandari because she pushed me," she said.She was so proud and there was a oration on her mother''s birth anniversary in Ranchi. She asked me to give a lecture there and it was proud moment "for me"."I went to the Covid ward to see her. Though she never taught me, but she was always proud. She never said it in so many words but she always made me that she chose the right person for the job. She was a mother figure for a lot of people," she added."She was sure that I won't let her down," she recalled.Her husband Dr JS Bhandari had also received the two doses of vaccine. Her daughter had also contracted the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/renowned-obstetrician-gynaecologist-sk-bhandari-who-delivered-priyanka-gandhi-rahul-gandhi-dies-of-covid19-101620967826797.html
14-05-2021||India||Covid-19: India receives shipment of ventilators, Remdesivir from European Union||Amid the COVID-19 crisis in India, an aircraft carrying a shipment of ventilators, Remdesivir and medical equipment from EU member states, arrived in New Delhi on Friday.External Affairs Ministry (EAM) spokesperson Arindam Bagchi acknowledged the continued solidarity shown by European countries including Germany, Netherlands, and Portugal."EU solidarity and cooperation continues. Aircraft arrives carrying 223 ventilators, 25000 vials of Remdesivir and other medical equipment from Germany, 30000 vials of Remdesivir from Netherlands and 5500 vials of Remdesivir from Portugal. Value support of our European Union partners," EAM spokesperson tweeted.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageEarlier today, India welcomed the arrival of 5.6 million masks/respirators that arrived from Kazakhstan to combat the deadly virus that has put a strain on the health infrastructure of the country."Further deepening our Strategic Partnership. Welcome shipment of over 5.6 million masks/respirators that arrived from Kazakhstan," Bagchi tweeted.India has received support from several countries, including the US, Russia and the UK as it battles a deadly second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic.As of Thursday, India recorded 3,62,727 new COVID-19 cases, 3,52,181 discharges and 4,120 deaths. The total positive cases in the country so far stand at 2,37,03,665. This includes 1,97,34,823 recoveries and 2,58,317 reported deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-india-receives-shipment-of-ventilators-remdesivir-from-european-union-101620967481381.html
14-05-2021||India||SC commission begins two-day Bengal visit to probe violence||The National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) has directed the West Bengal police to take “stern action” on the perpetrators of violence against members of the community after assembly elections results were announced on May 2.The commission, headed by Vijay Sampla, is in West Bengal for a two-day visit to carry out spot visits in the East Burdhwan and 24 Paraganas districts where it received complaints of atrocities against Dalits.Though the West Bengal government had earlier asked the NCSC to cancel the visit in view of the pandemic restrictions, the panel chose to go ahead with its inquiry into the cases of violence.“We spoke to affected families in Nabagram village in East Bardhaman district. Many people were initially scared of recording their complaints. In many areas, people have fled their homes in fear,” Sampla said.The commission went to the house of a complainant, Ashish Khetrapal, in Nabagram and found it locked. They were later informed that Khetrapal was injured and was being treated in a nursing home. His statement was recorded wherein he gave details of the attack that left two members of his family dead.Also Read | National Commission seeks report on quota in promotion to judicial officers in PunjabThe commission later met some of the affected people at the rest house in Kolkata. “There, more than 25 complainants were heard in the presence of the district commissioner and SSP who were directed to take stern actions as per the SC and ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act,” Sampla said.Complainants told the commission that in Milikpara village of East Bardhaman, 12 shops belonging to Schedule Castes were singled out, and vandalised. They also alleged that they did not receive help from the police.Sampla has directed the district commissioner to compensate and rehabilitate the victims as per the SC/ST act.On May 14, the commission will be visiting Sarisa village under South 24 Parganas, where it will listen to the first-hand account of victims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-commission-begins-two-day-bengal-visit-to-probe-violence-101620966779743.html
14-05-2021||India||Govt’s telemedicine service crosses 5 million consultations||Union health ministry’s eSanjeevani telemedicine service crossed 5 million tele-consultations on Thursday, in about a little over a year since the service began.The ministry had begun online out patient department (OPD) consultations in April last year during the nationwide lockdown announced by the Centre in March to manage coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak in the country.“The flagship National Telemedicine Service of MoHFW has served more than 50 lakh (0.5 million) patients. Patient to doctor remote consultation services were rolled out by the Union Ministry in April 2020 while the OPDs in the country were closed during first lockdown. The eSanjeevani initiative is operational in 31 states/Union Territories in the country and daily, around 40,000 patients across the country are using this contactless and risk-free modality of healthcare services delivery,” said the health ministry in a statement.The service operates at two levels: the doctor-to-doctor telemedicine platform, and the doctor-to-patient platform.The doctor-to-doctor telemedicine platform is being implemented at all the health and wellness centres (HWC) in the country in hub and spoke model under the Centre’s Ayushman Bharat scheme. So far, eSanjeevaniAB-HWC has been implemented at least 18,000 health and wellness centres and 1,500 hubs, and by December 2022, it would be operational at 155,000 health and wellness centres.Also Read | Civil Hospital in Lucknow gets post-Covid ward, telemedicine facilityTelemedicine entails delivery of health services from a distance using internet and it not only extends the reach of health services but also improves quality of health services besides saving time and money.eSanjeevaniAB-HWC was rolled out in November 2019, and 22 states have started using this digital modality for close to around 2 million patients that have been extended health services by doctors and specialists. In all, at least 21,000 users, including specialists, doctors and community health officers, have been trained and onboarded on eSanjeevaniAB-HWC.The other module of national telemedicine service is eSanjeevaniOPD. It has been rolled out in 28 states and Union Territories. At least 350 OPDs have been set up on eSanjeevaniOPD, over 300 of these are specialty OPDs. Close to 3,000,000 patients have been served through eSanjeevaniOPD, a free of cost service.“Few states are working towards rolling out special home isolation OPDs wherein the patients will be screened for Covid-19 and for remote screening purposes. States are planning to engage final year MBBS students. Owing to the increasing load of cases, in a few states, eSanjeevaniOPD is being used round-the-clock. Tamil Nadu is the first state to record over 1 million consultations on eSanjeevani. The Ministry of Defence too has roped in veterans of armed forces medical services to provide their services to the public in selected states,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govts-telemedicine-service-crosses-5-million-consultations-101620965457038.html
14-05-2021||India||Centre pins hopes on 5 Covid vaccines apart from Covishield, Covaxin, Sputnik||India is hoping to produce at least two billion vaccine doses against Covid-19 by the end of this year, Niti Aayog (health) member VK Paul has said. While Bharat Biotech and Serum Institute of India will ramp up their production, the government is hoping to start the production of several other vaccines which are in the pipeline. The tentative list presented by the government comprises eight vaccines, including Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik V. The Russian vaccine will be available in the market from early next week, Dr Paul said. But apart from these three vaccines, with which people are familiar now, the government is hoping to get five more vaccines. Among them, four will be made in India, Dr Paul said.Over 2 billion vaccines to be available by Dec: CentreHere is all you need to know about these 5 emerging vaccines:Bio E Subunit vaccine: It is a subunit vaccine which is in the third phase of trial. In the phase 1/2 trial, the vaccine was found to be safe and well-tolerated. The vaccine is very promising, Dr Paul said. The Centre is hoping to get 30 crore doses of this vaccine between August and December, provided it gets authorisation. "You may say this is optimistic. Yes, of course. Is there a chance that this might not happen? Yes, there is. But work is going on," Dr Paul said.Also watch | ‘2 billion doses’: Centre briefs on Covid vaccines, Sputnik V availability﻿Zydus Cadila DNA vaccine: It is in the last leg of phase 3 trial and will soon apply for the licence, Dr Paul said. It is a three-dose vaccine and will be administered using a needle-free technology.Novavax/Covavax: Pune's Serum Institute of India will manufacture this vaccine, developed by the US's Novavax.Bharat Biotech's nasal vaccine: This is a single shot, a needle-free vaccine that Bharat Biotech is developing. The vaccine is in the 1/2 trial phase. "They have started working. Data came from the company," Dr Paul said assuring that these are not random projections.Gennova mRNA vaccine: Pune's Gennova Biopharmaceuticals is developing this messenger RNA vaccine. Pfizer and Moderna are also mRNA vaccines.Out of these five vaccines, four are Indian while Covavax is being developed abroad, though it will be produced by India's Serum Institue.Apart from these, vaccines made in foreign countries can also become available in India as the government has always been in touch with Pfizer, Moderna etc. The tranche of Sputnik vaccine that arrived from India will be available in the market from ext week, while the production of Sputnik in India by Dr Reddy's Laboratories will begin in July.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-pins-hopes-on-5-covid-vaccines-apart-from-covishield-covaxin-sputnik-101620963914257.html
14-05-2021||India||India's Covid-19 tally crosses 24 million-mark with 343,144 fresh cases, daily death toll stands at 4,000||India on Friday registered 343,144 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the country's total coronavirus infection tally past the 24-million mark. 4,000 new fatalities were recorded, taking the death toll to 262,317. The country's total case count has now reached 24,046,809, according to the Union health ministry's dashboard.The active coronavirus cases currently stand at 3,704,893. This accounts for 15.65% of the total confirmed Covid-19 cases in the country. As many as 344,776 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours and so far, and 20,079,599 people in total have recovered from the viral disease, the health ministry’s dashboard displayed. With this, the country’s recovery rate stands at 83.2%, the government said.The country has tested a total of 31,13,24,100 samples as of May 13. Out of this, 18,75,515 samples were tested for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Twitter.The Union health ministry has said that Karnataka, Maharashtra, Kerala and Tamil Nadu are among the states that account for 82.5% of the total active cases in the country.Meanwhile, government advisor VK Paul has said that over 200 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines will likely be available in India between August to December this year."Two billion doses (216 crore) will be made in the country in five months for India and for people of India. The vaccine will be available for all as we move forward. By the first quarter of the next year, the number is likely to be 300 crore," Paul added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-covid-19-tally-crosses-24-million-mark-with-343-144-fresh-cases-daily-death-toll-stands-at-4000-101620959959348.html
14-05-2021||India||PM Modi extends greetings on occasion of Akshaya Tritiya||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday greeted the nation on the occasion of Akshaya Tritiya."Happy Akshaya Tritiya to all. This festival associated with the accomplishment of auspicious works should give us the power to realize our resolve to conquer the corona epidemic," PM Modi tweeted.Akshaya Tritiya is celebrated every year in the month of April/May and is considered auspicious from beginning to end. Named after the third lunar of the spring month of Vaisakha in the Hindu calendar, this festival is celebrated by the Hindus and Jains as an annual spring festival in India and Nepal.The word 'Akshaya' means 'one that never diminishes' or 'the unending one'. On this day, people make donations, do good deeds and buy precious metals and jewels.Also known as Akha Teej or Akti, this year the muhurat of the puja the Puja begins at 05:38 am and ends at 12:18pm while the Tritiya Tithi begins at 5:38am on May 14 and ends at 7:59am on May 15. People usually start the day by praying for their forefathers and parents who are no more.This occasion is considered to be auspicious for new ventures, marriages and to buy gold since it is believed to bring good luck.Acoording to the Hindu mythology, Akshaya Tritiya marks the starting of Treta Yuga. It is referred to as Parasurama Jayanti since it also celebrates the birthday of Parasurama, the 6th incarnation of Lord Vishnu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-extends-greetings-on-occassion-of-akshaya-tritiya-101620961202526.html
14-05-2021||India||Singapore extends life-line to India in oxygen crisis||India’s mission oxygen with comprehensive partner Singapore began with a three sentence text message between external affairs minister S Jaishankar and foreign minister Vivian Balakrishnan on April 22 with the second wave of pandemic leaving afflicted Indians breathless.The SMS was followed by a telephone call between the two ministers as Jaishankar asked for medical oxygen and his Singaporean counterpart agreed with Prime Ministers of both countries kept in the loop. The Indian foreign minister asked his senior colleague defence minister Rajnath Singh to call in the Indian Air Force’s heavy transporters to pick the first four cryogenic tanks from Singapore which were needed to pick up liquid medical oxygen from east India to Covid-19 hit north and western parts of the country.Also watch | IAF aircraft with oxygen containers from Singapore lands in WB's Panagarh airbase﻿Defence minister Rajnath Singh called up Indian Air Force (IAF) chief Rakesh Kumar Singh Bhadauria, who was on a five-day official trip to France at that time, the same day in Paris. Leaving aside everything, Air Chief Bhadauria worked through the night to plan external and internal movement of transport planes. The entire transport fleet of IAF was placed on standby 24X7 with multiple sets of pilots as 'Mission Oxygen' began in earnest with a C-17 picking up four cryogenic containers from Changi in Singapore and reaching the transport hub of Panagarh in West Bengal.The cryogenic tanks picked up oxygen from several steel plants on the road and hitched on Railway flat wagons to reach their destinations. While industrial units largely in eastern India produce oxygen in large quantities, there was a global shortage of specialised cryogenic tanks needed to transport liquid oxygen. It was here that India’s trusted and tried ally Singapore came to aid at a critical time by acting as a logistics hub for crucial medical items that India wanted to source from abroad. Indian High Commissioner to Singapore P Kumaran played his part by taking an early initiative to identify good sources from key medical items in the city nation.On April 29, defence minister Rajnath Singh spoke to Singapore counterpart Ng Eng Hen about reinforcing capacities to fight the second wave of virus that had hit India. Two days later, Jaishankar again spoke to his Singaporean counterpart with the latter extremely forthcoming to help out India. Balakrishnan recalled how India had stood by Singapore in the first wave in 2021 and promised all support by sensitizing all other ministries in the city nation about national health emergency in India. In 2021, India had supplied critical items like hydroxy-chloroquinine, surgical masks, hand sanitizers and polypropylene material to Singapore.After a series of flights by IAF’s C-17, IL-76, C-130 aircraft, India procured 46 cryogenic or ISO containers from Singapore which were landed at Panagarh, Chennai and Hindon, Ghaziabad to enhance the liquid oxygen supplies to various destinations in India. In addition to the ISO tanks, India has procured thousands of oxygen cylinders, oxygen concentrators, BiPAP machines / ventilators and other items from Singapore. These have been ferried on IAF aircraft and Indian Navy ships.In a special gesture, Singapore sent two of its own Air Force aircraft on April 28 carrying oxygen cylinders and other material. Separately, Singapore’s Temasek Foundation, in partnership with a number of Singaporean companies, donated over 8000 oxygen concentrators, 51000 oxymeters, over 900 BiPAP machines and 27 ventilators.Joining hands with IAF, the Indian Navy played a key role in in evacuating medical supplies from Singapore by sending in amphibious warfare ship INS Airawat to Singapore. The Ship was in Singapore from May 2 to May 4 and loaded nearly 5000 oxygen cylinders of various capacities, eight ISO/cryogenic tanks, oxygen concentrators and even rapid antigen kits for supplies to South India as the virus was beginning to hit south of Vindhyachal.On May 15, landing warship INS Jalashwa is reaching Singapore bay for loading 15 filled cryogenic containers and nearly 5,000 oxygen cylinders for India to meet the expected rise in demand in east and southern India.The most encouraging part is that High Commissioner Kumaran has also been able to activate the large Indian community in Singapore, particularly the IIT, IIM alumni and TiE Singapore, as well as organizations like the Singapore Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Little India Shop Owners Association to help raise funds and assist in procuring medical support and facilitating logistics.For a country with a population of a Delhi suburb, Singapore, driven by active bilateral engagement, has turned out to be a critical lifeline to India in times of medical crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/singapore-extends-life-line-to-india-in-oxygen-crisis-101620960897988.html
14-05-2021||India||Eid-ul-Fitr: PM Modi greets nation, says praying for everyone's good health||Prime Minister Narendra Modi greeted the nation on the occasion of Eid-ul-Fitr and said he wished for citizens to overcome the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic soon and work towards their humanitarian goals. Eid-ul-Fitr is celebrated by Muslims across the world on the last day of the holy month of Ramzan."Best wishes on the auspicious occasion of Eid-ul-Fitr. Praying for everyone’s good health and well-being. Powered by our collective efforts, may we overcome the global pandemic and work towards furthering human welfare. Eid Mubarak!" PM Modi tweeted.Best wishes on the auspicious occasion of Eid-ul-Fitr. Praying for everyone’s good health and well-being. Powered by our collective efforts, may we overcome the global pandemic and work towards furthering human welfare. Eid Mubarak!Ramzan, the month-long fasting period, starts and ends with the sighting of the moon. It is celebrated every ninth month of the Islamic calendar. The festival was celebrated this year amid the coronavirus pandemic, with Muslims across the world observing Roza, or fasting from the time the sun rises to when it sets.President Ram Nath Kovind also wished everyone on the festival and said that everyone this year should resolve to overcome the Covid-19 crisis by following preventive guidelines and dedicate themselves to the service of humanity."Eid Mubarak to all fellow citizens! This festival is an occasion to strengthen the spirit of fraternity & rededicate ourselves to the service of humanity. Let us resolve to deal with Covid-19 by following the guidelines and to work for the well-being of the society & the country," he tweet||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eidulfitr-pm-modi-greets-nation-says-praying-for-everyone-s-good-health-101620960855057.html
14-05-2021||India||'Farmers' protest turned a few villages into Covid-19 hotspots ': Haryana CM||Chief minister of Haryana Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday said a few villages in the state have turned into hotspots of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) because of the farmers' protests, news agency ANI reported. "A month ago, I appealed to farmer leaders to suspend their protest amid the Covid-19 spread. I told them they could resume after the situation is under control. Now it has emerged that these dharnas have made a few villages hotspots of Covid-19 as villagers travelled back and forth from the protest sites," he said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageUrging farmers to suspend their agitation once more, he said, "In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, I once again appeal to the farmer leaders to suspend their protests. The only goal, of all of us, should be to save the lives of people in the time of this crisis. There is nothing more than human life."Haryana on Thursday recorded 12,286 fresh cases of the disease, while 16,041 recoveries were reported in the state in 24 hours. As many as 163 people died of the disease in a day, taking the total death toll in the state to 6,238 on Thursday. In view of the rising cases, the state was put under lockdown till May 17.The CM said rural areas of the state saw several Covid-19 hotspots come up recently and that the health department officials were prepping to carry out a door-to-door check-up campaign in order to curb the spread of the virus."The government will provide an insurance of ₹2 lakh if a poor person over the age of 50 dies due to the virus. The premium of Beema Yojana will be deposited by the state government in their accounts and from the same account, the amount of premium will be deducted", Khattar said, according to ANI.Farmers have been protesting since November last year against the three farm laws passed by the Centre. The controversial laws are -- Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-turned-a-few-villages-into-covid-19-hotspots-haryana-cm-101620954231438.html
14-05-2021||India||'Narrow politics': Harsh Vardhan on states raising Covid vaccine demand||With states complaining that they are not receiving an adequate number of vaccines, Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Thursday said this approach harms the holistic approach of the government and arouses narrow political passion among the masses. The remark came as the minister reviewed the Covid-19 situation with six states, including Maharashtra, Kerala, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan and Delhi. All these states have been badly hit by the second wave of the pandemic.During the meeting, a common demand from all the states was to increase the quota of vaccines for the states. As vaccination for people in the age group of 18 to 44 years began from May 1, states have been reporting vaccine shortage as the present supply is not adequate for both the age group of above 45 years and below 45 years. Since the centre has asked states and UTs to focus on the population of 45+ as they are more vulnerable and many of them have already received one dose, states including Delhi, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Rajasthan have halted the vaccination of people below 45 years for the time being.WHO-approved Covid-19 vaccines can come to India, more than 2 billion doses to become available soon: GovtThe minister said that the production capacity of vaccines is being ramped up and the states have the non-government channel to procure vaccines for their population. While by non-government channel, he referred to the Centre's new strategy of allowing states to get vaccines directly for vaccine makers, health ministers present at the meeting requested the minister for a common policy for procurement of vaccines from foreign manufacturers.Contrary to the health minister's statement, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said each state approaching foreign vaccine makers dents India's image in the world as states have been pitted against each other in this vaccine race where richer states and civic bodies will be ahead of others in getting foreign vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/harsh-vardhan-says-states-demanding-more-covid-vaccines-will-arouse-narrow-political-passion-101620957039813.html
14-05-2021||India||Times Group chairperson Indu Jain dies of Covid-related complications at 84||Times Group chairperson Indu Jain died on Thursday due to Covid-related complications, company sources said. She was 84.Hailing her as a visionary, Times Now TV channel, part of the Times Group, described Jain as a lifelong spiritual seeker, pioneering philanthropist, distinguished patron of the arts, and passionate proponent of women's rights.She breathed her last in Delhi, the sources said.As tributes poured in for her from statesmen, captains of industry and spiritual masters, friends and admirers spoke fondly of her unquenched youthful spirit, zest for life, and determination to make the world a better place.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAfter becoming chairman of the Times Group in 1999 she evolved a distinctive leadership style, characterised by compassion and inclusiveness, that helped propel the group to new heights.She set up The Times Foundation in 2000, with sustainable development and transformational change as its key goals. One of India's most respected non-profits, it provides community services and runs the Times Relief Fund to offer assistance during cyclones, earthquakes, floods, epidemics and other crises.She was the founder president of FICCI Ladies Organisation (FLO), established in 1983 to promote entrepreneurship and professional excellence among women in India. From 1999, she also served as chairperson of Bharatiya Jnanpith Trust, founded in 1944 by Sahu Shanti Prasad Jain, her father-in-law, to promote literature in Indian languages.The Jnanpith Award, conferred by the Trust annually, is acknowledged to be the most prestigious honour for authors writing in Indian languages.She was also the guiding force behind the Oneness Forum, launched in 2003 to promote unity in the world. The MahaviraMahatma award was instituted under the aegis of the Forum to promote Mahatma Gandhi's principle of ahimsa (non- violence)."Saddened by the demise of Times Group Chairperson Smt. Indu Jain Ji. She will be remembered for her community service initiatives, passion towards Indias progress and deep-rooted interest in our culture. I recall my interactions with her. Condolences to her family. Om Shanti," tweeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi.A lifelong philanthropist, one of her last wishes was to donate her organs. Sadly, the complications caused by coronavirus meant that the wish could not be fulfilled, the sources said.She received many honours, including the Padma Bhushan in 2016. She was conferred a Lifetime Achievement Award by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India in 2019, an award for Lifetime Contribution to Media by the All India Management Association in 2018, as well as a Lifetime Achievement Award by the Indian Congress of Women.In 2000, she also addressed the United Nations at the Millennium World Peace Summit.As chairperson of Bennett, Coleman & Co. Ltd, which owns the Times of India newspaper, she is credited with infusing new energy into the growth of India's largest media house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/times-group-chairperson-indu-jain-dies-of-covid-related-complications-at-84-101620954368206.html
14-05-2021||India||Bengal Guv Dhankhar to visit Assam to meet post-poll violence hit people||West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar will on Friday visit Ranpagli and Srirampur camps in Assam sheltering people from Bengal, who crossed over to the state to escape post-poll violence."WB Governor Shri Jagdeep Dhankhar will be visiting Ranpagli camp in Assam sheltering post-poll violence affected WB people. He will interact with those who have taken refuge in camp. Governor will reach Ranpagli, Assam on May 14 at 8.15 am by BSF Helicopter from Coochbehar. Governor Dhankhar would also interact with media at Ranpagli camp at 9am on May 14," Dhankhar's office tweeted.Earlier on Thursday evening, Dhankar visited Bengal's Coochbehar and interacted with the victims of post-poll violence. He was shown black flags by a group of people who also raised slogans in Sitalkuchi in Cooch Behar district."At Coochbehar. Visited several affected areas. Distressed at grim scenario. After listening to tales of sorrow no tears left in my eyes. Never imagined severity of post poll retributive violence @MamataOfficial was much beyond. One is made to pay with life and rights for voting!," Dhankhar had tweeted."People are in mortal fear of police @WBPolice and ruling dispensation workers. A dozen ruling party workers could stop my convoy, with no fear of law and police. Such state of affairs @MamataOfficial! I had to intervene finding they were determined to involve with my security," he added."All day witnessed such tales of sorrow, grief and horror as victim after victim narrated horrendous post poll retributive violence incidents @MamataOfficial. Helpless victims in crossfire of police @WBPolice and ruling party workers. Will endeavor to deliberate with CM," Dhankhar tweeted.Earlier this month, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had alleged that nine of its party workers have been killed in the post-poll violence.The Trinamool Congress (TMC) got 213 seats against 77 by the BJP. The BJP bagged 30 of the 54 seat in Cooch Behar and other districts of north bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-guv-dhankhar-to-visit-assam-to-meet-post-poll-violence-hit-people-101620951779280.html
14-05-2021||India||Nagaland goes under total lockdown from Friday: Check fresh guidelines here||Amid a rise in coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Nagaland will go under total lockdown from Friday till May 21. The decision was taken by state government spokesperson on Covid-19 and minister Neiba Kronu.He said that the High Powered Committee (HPC) on coronavirus had decided to impose a state-wide total lockdown for one week starting from 6pm on May 14 till May 21.Nagaland on Thursday saw its highest single-day spike of 366 cases which took the infection count past the 17,000-mark, a health official said. With 12 more fatalities, the death toll in the state now stands at 177. A total of 12,968 patients have recovered and presently, there are 3,551 active cases in the state.State Immunisation Officer Dr Ritu Thurr said that Nagaland has so far administered a total of 2,35,281 doses of Covid-19 vaccines to 1,82,916 persons.Here are the fresh guidelines for the week-long lockdown:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagaland-goes-under-total-lockdown-from-friday-check-fresh-guidelines-here-101620950469385.html
14-05-2021||NA||Highlights: Assam flags off India's first vaccination drive for transgenders||India on Friday recorded 343,144 fresh Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, according to Union health ministry dashboard. As many as 4,000 new deaths were also registered. The country has so far reported a total of 24.04 million cases and 262,317 deaths. India is currently reeling under a second Covid-19 wave.The global Covid-19 disease caseload has climbed to 161,801,680 of which 3,357,598 people have died and 139,607,886 have recovered, according to worldometers.info. The United States continues to remain the worst-hit country from the pandemic with 33,623,676 cases and 598,518 deaths respectively.Cases of the new B.1.617.2 strain of Covid-19 have risen to 1,313 from 520 over the past week, Public Health England said Thursday, assessing the strain to be “at least as transmissible” as the so-called Kent variant that took hold in December, precipitating the UK’s third lockdown in January.Meanwhile, in a major step toward returning to pre-pandemic life, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in US has eased mask-wearing guidance for fully vaccinated people, allowing them to stop wearing masks outdoors in crowds and in most indoor settings.Follow all the updates here:University of New South Wales illuminates library to support Indian students in their fight against Covid-19Australia: University of New South Wales, Sydney illuminates its main library tower in support of "Indian students and friends"#COVID19 pic.twitter.com/4pg0V91jOTJapan extends Covid-19 state of emergency from 6 to 9 areas as Tokyo Olympic approachesJapan on Friday extended the Covid-19 state of emergency in the country from 6 to 9 areas, reported the Associated Press. Japanese prime minister Yoshihide Suga pledged his commitment to holding the Olympics safely even though public clamour against it has been intensifying in the country.Maharashtra records 39,923 new Covid-19 cases, 695 deathsMaharashtra on Friday reported 39,923 cases of Covid-19, taking the state-wide tally to 53,09,215. 695 deaths were also reported in the last 24 hours, the death toll now stands at 79,552.Telangana records 4,305 new Covid-19 cases, 29 deathsTelangana reports 4305 new #COVID19 cases, 6361 recoveries and 29 deaths in the last 24 hours.Total cases 5,20,709Total recoveries 4,62,981Death toll 2896Active cases 54,832 pic.twitter.com/Im5xJv7jIvTotal lockdown imposed in parts of Mizoram extended till May 24The ongoing total lockdown imposed in Aizwal and other administrative areas of Mizoram has been extended till May 24, reported ANI.Delhi reports 8,506 new Covid-19 cases, 289 deaths in last 24 hoursDelhi reports 8506 new #COVID19 cases, 14,140 recoveries and 289 deaths in the last 24 hours.Total cases 13,80,981Total recoveries 12,88,280Death toll 20,907Active cases 71,794 pic.twitter.com/bKSt7okSCpWith 8,506 new Covid-19 cases and 289 related deaths, Delhi's cases tally reached 1,380,981 and death toll climbed to 20,907, reports ANI.AAP leader Atishi says 1.23 lakh beneficiaries received jabs on May 13 in Delhi1.23 lakh beneficiaries vaccinated in Delhi on May 13: AAP leader AtishiAam Aadmi Party leader Atishi said that 1.23 lakh beneficiaries received Covid-19 vaccine jabs on May 13 in Delhi. She also said that 43.67 lakh vaccine doses have been administered so far in the national capital and over a million beneficiaries have received both doses, reports PTI.Andhra Pradesh records 22,018 new Covid-19 cases, 96 deaths in last 24 hoursAndhra Pradesh reports 22,018 new COVID-19 cases, 19,177 recoveries, and 96 deaths in last 24 hours Active cases: 2,03,787 Total recoveries: 11,75,843Death toll: 9,173 pic.twitter.com/29jztZoEJNAndhra Pradesh recorded 22,018 new Covid-19 cases and 96 deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the state's tally 1,388,803 and death toll to 9,173, reports ANI.Karnataka govt asks citizens who took Covishield first dose to take second dose only after 12 weeksCitizens are requested not to come to Vaccination centers if they have not completed 12 weeks after the first dose of Covishield vaccine. This revised time interval between 2 doses is applicable only to COVISHIELD and not to COVAXIN vaccine.The Karnataka health department asked the citizens who took the first dose of Covishield Covid-19 vaccine to appear for the second dose only after 12 weeks following the Centre's latest directive.TN's first oxygen express train from West Bengal delivers 80 MT of medical oxygenFirst oxygen express train for Tamil Nadu arrived in Chennai with about 80 metric tonnes of medical #oxygen from Durgapur, West Bengal: officialsTamil Nadu received its first oxygen express train from Durgapur in West Bengal with 80 metric tonnes of medical oxygen, reports PTI.UP sees 15,747 new Covid-19 cases, 312 deaths15,747 new coronavirus cases, 312 deaths in #UttarPradesh: health officialUttar Pradesh recorded 15,747 new Covid-19 cases and 312 deaths, reports PTI, citing a state health official.Telangana HC stays state govt order to only allow Covid-19 patients with prior hospital tie-upThe Telangana high court has stayed a state government order allowing only those Covid-19 patients from neighbouring states having a prior tie-up with a hospital.Over 179 million doses delivered in India's Covid-19 vaccination drive, says government#IndiaFightsCorona: 📍#COVID19Vaccination Status (As on 14th May, 2021, 07:00 AM)✅India's Cumulative Vaccination Coverage exceeds 17.92 Crores (17,92,98,584)✅1st Dose: 13.87 Crores (13,87,19,426)✅2nd Dose: 4.05 Crores (4,05,79,158)#LargestVaccinationDrive #StaySafe pic.twitter.com/3pWEoFwJWuMore than 179 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccine have been administered under the country's vaccination drive, according to the latest data from the government.Karnataka to float global tender soon to procure Covid-19 vaccines, says CM YediyurappaWe will get vaccines as early as possible. We are floating global tenders to procure #COVID19 vaccines soon: Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa pic.twitter.com/uQaLviJMEEKarnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa said that the state government will soon float global tenders to procure Covid-19 vaccines, reports ANI.Telangana police stop ambulances with Covid-19 patients from AP without confirmation from hospitalsTelangana Police stops ambulances coming from Andhra Pradesh if the COVID patient they're carrying, doesn't have permission & bed confirmation from any hospital in Telangana. Visuals from Garikapadu checkpost at border of Krishna dist, Andhra Pradesh & Suryapet dist, Telangana. pic.twitter.com/j4q63aLJlvThe Telangana police stopped ambulances carrying Covid-19 patients from Andhra Pradesh who did not have confirmation from hospitals in Telangana, reports ANI.40 new cases take Covid-19 tally of Andamans to 6,510The Covid-19 caseload in Andaman and Nicobar Islands rose to 6,510 as 40 more people tested positive for the disease in the Union Territory, a health department official said on Friday.We are setting up new oxygen beds and buying oxygen cylinders: Arvind KejriwalWe are setting up new oxygen beds and buying oxygen cylinders so that when cases rise we are not found lacking: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal.Delhi registered less than 10k Covid-19 cases in last 24 hours: Arvind KejriwalDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said the national capital has registered less than 10,000 Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours. "I want to share a good news with you all. In the last 24 hours, Delhi has registered less than 10k Covid-19 cases," he added.China administered total of 366.91 million Covid-19 vaccines doses as of May 13China carried out about 12.6 million vaccinations against Covid-19 on May 13, bringing the total number of doses administered to 366.91 million, according to data released by the National Health Commission on Friday.Sputnik V vaccine (imported) to cost ₹995.40Imported Sputnik V to cost ₹995.40 per shot, doses made in India may be cheaperAbout 18 crore vaccine doses given so far in country: PM ModiPM says about 18 crore vaccine doses given so far in country; both centre, states making efforts to vaccinate all citizens.Dr Reddy's administers first dose of Sputnik V vaccine in HyderabadDr Reddy's administers first dose of Sputnik V vaccine in Hyderabad: Company statement.Centre should cap prices of all vaccines: Satyendar JainCentral govt is a partner in Covaxin's manufacturing so they can share the formula with others. Centre should cap prices of all vaccines and it should not be more than ₹150/dose... We will start vaccination for 45 yrs and above age group in govt schools soon: Delhi Health MinisterCovaxin stock has almost ended: Satyendar JainCovaxin stock has almost ended. We only have 2-3 days of stock for Covishield vaccines for 18- 44 years of age group. We can't mix already assigned centers for Covaxin and Covishield vaccines: Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain.German curbs set to ease after Covid cases fall below key levelGermany’s pandemic restrictions could ease further in the coming days after the national contagion rate fell below a key level for the first time in nearly two months.Origins of Covid-19 need to be investigated further, leading scientists sayThe origin of the novel coronavirus is still unclear and there is not yet enough evidence to say conclusively if it occurred naturally or was caused by a laboratory leak, a group of senior scientists said in a letter.‘Covid Zero’ havens find reopening harder than taming virusA smattering of places, mainly across the Asia Pacific region, have seen breathtaking victories in the battle against Covid-19 by effectively wiping it out within their borders. Now they face a fresh test: rejoining the rest of the world, which is still awash in the pathogen.Mizoram reports 201 fresh Covid-19 cases, tally rises to 8,377Mizoram reported 201 fresh Covid-19 cases, including security personnel and an infant, pushing the tally to 8,377, an official said on Friday.Singapore tightens Covid-19 curbs on social gatherings, diningSingapore announced on Friday the strictest curbs on social gatherings and public activities since easing a Covid-19 lockdown last year, amid a rise in locally acquired infections and with new coronavirus clusters forming in recent weeks.Covid-19: Australia to resume repatriation flights from IndiaAustralian Prime Minister Scott Morrison on Friday said the temporary pause on flights from India to Australia will end at May 14 midnight and facilitated commercial flights by the Australian Government will resume as promised, with a strict pre-flight testing regime.Hong Kong-Singapore travel bubble in doubt as Covid cases riseA quarantine-free travel agreement between Hong Kong and Singapore due to start on May 26 may not go ahead due to a rise in coronavirus cases in Singapore.Thane district reports 1,782 new Covid-19 cases, 70 deathsWith the addition of 1,782 new coronavirus cases, the infection count in Thane district of Maharashtra rose to 4,96,104, an official said on Friday.India logs 343,144 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hoursIndia on Friday registered 343,144 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the country's total coronavirus infection tally past the 24-million mark. 4,000 new fatalities were recorded, taking the death toll to 262,317. The country's total case count has now reached 24,046,809, according to the Union health ministry's dashboard.As many as 18,75,515 samples were tested yesterday: ICMRAs many as 31,13,24,100 samples have been tested in the country up till May 13 including 18,75,515 samples tested yesterday: Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).Germany's confirmed coronavirus cases rise by 11,336The number of confirmed coronavirus cases in Germany increased by 11,336 to 3,577,040, data from the Robert Koch Institute (RKI) for infectious diseases showed on Friday. The reported death toll rose by 190 to 85,848, the tally showed.Odisha reports 12,390 new Covid-19 casesOdisha reports 12,390 new Covid-19 cases, 8,665 recoveries and 22 deaths in the last 24 hoursTotal cases: 5,88,687Total recovered cases: 4,82,345Death toll: 2,273Active cases: 1,04,016Chinese firm's Covid-19 drug claims draw scientists' skepticismChinese biotech firm Kintor Pharmaceutical Limited [9939.HK] saw its stock price jump by more than 20% the day after it announced on April 25 that it had "completed the first patient enrollment and dosing" in a late-stage U.S. clinical trial of its experimental Covid-19 treatment.UK anxious about Indian coronavirus variant, Johnson saysBritain's government is anxious about the spread of the Covid-19 variant first detected in India and rules nothing out to tackle a sharp rise in cases of it, Prime Minister Boris Johnson said on Thursday.India should collaborate with other countries to ramp up Covid vaccine capability, says FauciDr Anthony Fauci, the Biden administration's top medical adviser on Thursday (local time) said that it is imperative for India to collaborate with other countries, and companies to ramp up its vaccine production capability to vaccinate country's huge population against Covid-19.Chinese firm's Covid-19 drug claims draw scientists' skepticismChinese biotech firm Kintor Pharmaceutical Limited [9939.HK] saw its stock price jump by more than 20% the day after it announced on April 25 that it had "completed the first patient enrollment and dosing" in a late-stage U.S. clinical trial of its experimental Covid-19 treatment.Taiwan premier says no need to raise Covid-19 alert level for nowTaiwan Premier Su Tseng-chang said on Friday that there is no need to raise the island's Covid-19 alert level for the time being and that compared with last year it has more experience and resources to fight the pandemic.Uttarakhand: All shops of Public Distribution System to open for 3 hours from today till May 18The Uttarakhand government on Thursday announced that all shops of the Public Distribution System will open for 3 hours ( i.e. from 7 am to 10 am) from May 14 till May 18.It's a great day: Biden praises US CDC's new guidelines on no mask usage for vaccinated peopleUS president Joe Biden on Wednesday (local time) praised the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's latest guidelines on removing the requirement of masks for fully vaccinated people, but cautioned those not vaccinated to protect themselves unless they have reached the finish line.Brazil to pause production of AstraZeneca vaccine due to lack of ingredientsBrazil's Fiocruz biomedical institute said on Thursday it would interrupt production of the AstraZeneca vaccine for certain days next week due to a lack of ingredients, until new supplies arrive on May 22.Indian-Americans have been pillar of support in fight against Covid-19: Ambassador SandhuIndian-Americans have been a pillar of support for India in its fight against Covid-19, Ambassador Taranjit Singh Sandhu said.Qatar sends consignment of medical supplies to IndiaQatar on Thursday sent a consignment of medical supplies including 200 oxygen concentrators, 40 ventilators and 4,300 Remdesivir vials to India as the latter reels from a devastating Covid-19 crisis.Special flight from South Korea carrying medical aid arrives at Delhi airportA special flight from South Korea carrying medical aid arrived at the Delhi airport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-india-world-latest-news-covid-19-death-toll-may-14-2021-101620949242917.html
14-05-2021||India||IMD warns of cyclone, Kerala districts on alert||A low pressure area has formed over southeast Arabian Sea and adjoining Lakshadweep area on Thursday and is likely to intensify into cyclonic storm ‘Tauktae’, which may bring heavy rainfall in Kerala, ghat areas of Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, Lakshadweep and coastal Gujarat, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Thursday. Authorities in Kerala have sounded red alert in three districts on May 14 and five districts on May 15.“We cannot rule out intensification similar to Super Cyclone Amphan. At present it is difficult to say which category of intensification the cyclone will reach. But conditions are extremely favourable for its rapid intensification. Ocean heat potential is above normal; sea surface temperatures are 1-2 degree C above normal and Madden Julian Oscillation (MJO) is also favouring rapid intensification. We should be prepared,” said Sunitha Devi, in-charge of cyclones at India Meteorological Department.Authorities have sounded red alert in three districts of Kerala on May 14 and five districts on May 15, indicating the possibility of extremely heavy rains under the influence of a low pressure area over the Arabian Sea.In a tweet, Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan asked authorities and people to follow the guidelines issued by the state disaster management authority.“Red Alert! 14 May - Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, 15 May - Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad, Kannur, Kasargod. Follow guidelines issued by @KeralaSDMA”, Vijayan tweeted,.By Saturday, the well-marked low-pressure area is likely to concentrate into a depression over the same region and intensify into a cyclone during the subsequent 24 hours, the IMD said. It is very likely to intensify further and move north north-westwards towards Gujarat and adjoining Pakistan coasts and reach near Gujarat coast around May 18 evening.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-warns-of-cyclone-kerala-districts-on-alert-101620949464987.html
14-05-2021||India||UCMS teachers want martyr status and aid for staff who died of Covid-19||The teachers’ association of the University College of Medical Sciences (UCMS) has written to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, requesting him to provide solatium and “martyr status” to health care workers who lost their lives to Covid-19.According to the teachers’ association, in the past week, three health care workers, including a 26-year-old junior resident doctor Anas Mujahid, have succumbed to the virus at the UCMS’s Guru Teg Bahadur (GTB) Hospital.“University College of Medical Sciences and GTB Hospital lost three health-care professionals to Covid in a week during this Corona crisis: Gayatri Sharma (ANM, community medicine), G Ajay Kumar (EMO, GTBH), and 26-year-old Dr Anas Mujahid (junior resident). It is our state’s highest responsibility to honour, respect, and recognize their extraordinary effort and sacrifice,” the teachers said in the letter sent on Wednesday.The teachers’ body has written a similar letter to the UCMS administration.Despite several attempts, UCMS principal Anil K Jain did not respond to calls and texts seeking comments.The teachers’ body also appealed to the Delhi government and UCMS administration to provide an inclusive solatium and martyr status to these health-care workers.“Even though no amount can fill the void in the families affected by this loss, it would be our gesture that we stand with them and it will also motivate our health-care workers,” the letter said.Mujahid, 26, died on Sunday, within hours of testing positive for Covid-19. The young doctor’s colleagues have also been demanding financial compensation for his family.Mujahid was deployed in GTB hospital’s department of gynaecology.A Delhi government spokesperson declined to comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ucms-teachers-want-martyr-status-and-aid-for-staff-who-died-of-covid19-101620948857774.html
14-05-2021||India||Delhi HC slams ‘irritating’ vaccine dialer tune||The Delhi high court on Thursday criticised a caller tune public service message put in place by the Centre asking people to get vaccinated, with the court labelling it “irritating” and questioning its purpose when states were reportedly short of jabs.“You have been playing that one irritating message on the phone whenever one makes a call, for we do not know how long, that you (people) should get vaccinated, when you (Centre) don’t have enough vaccines.“You are not vaccinating people, but you still say that vaccination lagavaiye [get vaccinated]. Kaun lagayega vaccination [Who will get vaccinated], when there is no vaccine? What is the point of the message,” observed a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli.“You should give it [the vaccine] to everyone. Even if you are going to take money, give it. That is what even children are saying,” the bench said and added that the government needs to be “innovative” in such things.The court said that the government should prepare more such messages instead of preparing just one and running it always.The bench said the government, whether at the state or the Centre, have to react to the situation on the ground.It also suggested using TV anchors or producers to create programmes, on making people aware about use of oxygen concentrators and cylinders or on vaccination. It also said celebrities may be asked to chip in, and that moves like these “need to be made soon”.The court said a lot of “publicity and propaganda” was put in place last year, on the importance of hand-washing and mask-wearing. It said there should be similar initiatives on the use of oxygen, concentrators, medication, and others.“We are losing time. There should be a sense of urgency,” the bench said, and directed the Centre and Delhi government to file their reports by May 18 on steps they are going to take to disseminate information on Covid-19 management through the print and TV media, as well as dialer tunes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-slams-irritating-vaccine-dialer-tune-101620948523722.html
14-05-2021||India||High court rejects plea alleging food minister hussain was hoarding oxygen stock||The Delhi high court on Thursday disposed of a plea which claimed that state food and civil supplies minister Imran Hussain was hoarding oxygen, after the Delhi government submitted before the court that he was not provided the life saving gas by the state or from the quota allocated for Covid-19 patients.Amicus curiae and senior advocate Rajshekhar Rao told the court that the explanation tendered by Hussain that he got cylinders refilled from a dealer in Faridabad “appears to be credible”.In view of the submissions, a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli disposed of the plea. The petitioner, Vedansh Sharma, had alleged that Hussain was hoarding oxygen cylinders at a time when the city was in the midst of a crisis due to the short supply of oxygen.“We are not inclined to proceed any further in the matter,” the bench said.Hussain, MLA from Ballimaran, tweeted, “I was serving the people of my constituency by distributing free oxygen. Some people did not like it and levelled baseless allegations against me. Today, the honourable court has acquitted me. I will continue to serve people like this.”The submissions were made in response to the high court’s query to the Delhi government on May 10 as to whether the MLA was supplied oxygen by the state or through the designated refillers from the allocated quota.Senior advocate Rahul Mehra, appearing for the Delhi government, said due to the instant plea the reputation of Hussain, who is Delhi’s food and civil supplies minister, was adversely affected and all the good work he did was brought to nought.Mehra said it also deters the individual from doing any such work for the benefit of the people in the future and therefore, people filing such pleas without allegedly doing proper research has to be discouraged.He also questioned why such pleas were being filed only against one political party.The court, however, did not agree with Mehra’s contention as it said it was not going to stop people from coming to court.The court said it did not ask the MLA to stop distribution of oxygen, if he was not taking it from the quota allotted to Delhi.“He stopped it on his own,” the bench said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/high-court-rejects-plea-alleging-food-minister-hussain-was-hoarding-oxygen-stock-101620948357178.html
14-05-2021||India||Centre, NCR states must ensure food, transport for migrants: SC||Urging administrations to acknowledge the “harsh realities” facing migrant workers affected by the second wave of Covid-19, the Supreme Court on Thursday directed the Centre and the governments of Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh to provide dry ration and meals to labourers in the National Capital Region (NCR), apart from ensuring proper transportation back home.A bench of justices Ashok Bhushan and MR Shah issued the interim directives while seeking detailed replies from the state governments on steps being taken to ameliorate the misery of the stranded migrant workers.Starting immediately, the bench ordered that dry ration should be given to migrant workers in the NCR under Atmanirbhar Bharat scheme, or any other scheme be provided by the Centre or states utilising the public distribution system.“While providing dry ration, the authorities of the states shall not insist on an identity card for those migrant labourers who do not possess it for the time being. On self-declaration made by the stranded migrant labourers, dry ration be given to them,” it said.In order to make certain that the migrant workers and their families get at least two meals a day, the court directed the governments of Delhi, UP and Haryana to open community kitchens and advertise this.The bench asked the states to ensure that adequate transport is provided to stranded migrant labourers who wanted to return to their home. “The district administration, in coordination with police, may identify such stranded migrant labourers and facilitate their transport either by road transport or train. The Union of India may also issue necessary instructions to the Ministry of Railways...” it further directed.The migrant worker crisis came under sharp focus shortly after the nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 25 last year. Hundreds of thousands of workers spilled out on highways and began walking back home. In Parliament last year, the government said estimates put this number at around 11 million while activists say the number is much higher.The court order came on a plea moved jointly by activists Harsh Mander, Anjali Bhardwaj and Jagdeep Chhokar, who sought the court’s intervention to ensure that migrant workers were not deprived of food security and were also able to travel back to their homes at nominal cost.Solicitor general (SG) Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, expressed his reservations to the idea of facilitating their travel, apprehending that this could incentivise their migration even though most of the industrial activities were open across the states. “Unlike the previous lockdown when everything was closed, efforts of all state governments this time is to ensure it is not a lockdown... By and large industrial activities where migrants are working have not stopped completely. All state governments are also responsible governments and are elected ones,” said Mehta.The bench, however, said that migrant workers may have their own apprehensions. “The mindset of the people is different. How will they survive if they don’t have money or food? Some sustenance must be provided by the states? Ration and community kitchen should be there. You have to consider the harsh realities,” it told the SG.Mehta, on his part, said that the court should wait for replies from the states to scrutinise the steps taken by them before passing any order. But the bench said that it would issue immediate directions for migrant workers in Delhi-NCR, while other states such as Maharashtra, Gujarat and Bihar can file their replies within 10 days.Advocate Prashant Bhushan, appearing for the activists, said he was amazed at the Centre’s law officer’s resistance to the interim directions in the interest of the migrant workers. “Last time they said there is nobody on the road. This time they are opposing orders to ensure they get food and transportation,” contended Bhushan. His reference is to court proceedings last year during which Mehta claimed that no migrants were on the roads, walking back home or trying to find any other mode of transport during the 68-day hard lockdown.The bench, while fixing May 24 as the next date to hear the suo motu case on the problems of migrant workers, also asked Delhi, Haryana, UP, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Bihar and Odisha to file their affidavits on the issues of food security and health insurance for migrant workers as well as their employment opportunities in the native states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-ncr-states-must-ensure-food-transport-for-migrants-sc-101620945849883.html
14-05-2021||India||Centre asks SC to review order on state’s role in defining OBCs||The Union government on Thursday moved the Supreme Court for a reconsideration of its May 5 judgment, which ruled that after a constitutional amendment in 2018, state governments have no power to draw up their own lists of backward classes.By a 3-2 majority, the verdict -- which also unanimously struck down a state law granting reservation to the Maratha community in government jobs and education in Maharashtra -- had held that state governments must rely on the Centre to include or exclude any community for granting reservation to socially and educationally backward classes (SEBCs).In its review petition, the Centre has contended that the judgment required a relook because there were errors apparent on the face of the record.Since a review petition is usually decided by the judges in their chambers under the Supreme Court rules, the central government has asked for an open court hearing so as to be able to make oral submissions on the grounds of review.A statement by the Union ministry of social justice and empowerment said: “The Constitution Bench of the Hon’ble Supreme Court has pronounced judgement dated May 5, 2021, involving interpretation of the provisions of the Constitution 102nd Amendment Act, 2018. As provided in the Supreme Court Rules, 2013, a review petition has been filed by the Union of India on May 13, 2021.”In its May 5 judgment, the five-judge bench had interpreted the 102nd constitutional amendment, whereby provisions were inserted to give constitutional status to the National Commission for Backward Classes (Article 338B) and for empowering the President to notify the list of socially and educationally backward classes of state or Union territory (Article 342A).While justices Ashok Bhushan and SA Nazeer maintained that the amendment act was confined to the list to be issued for central government jobs, justices L Nageswara Rao, Hemant Gupta and S Ravindra Bhat held that the scheme of the amendments has taken away the power of the state to identify backward classes.The majority dismissed the Centre’s understanding of the amendments even as attorney general (A-G) KK Venugopal told the court that the 102nd amendment did not deprive state legislatures to enact law determining the SEBCs and conferring benefits on them.According to the top law officer, Articles 15(4) and 16(4) of the Constitution were untouched by the insertion of Article 342 and that the states will continue to exercise their power to identify SEBCs and give reservation even after the amendments.Several states, including Maharashtra, Punjab, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, also asserted their right under Articles 15(4) and 16(4) to make special provisions for SEBCs and give them benefits of quota.Both the Centre and states urged the court to lend credence to the parliamentary select committee report of 2017 and a statement of Union minister Thawarchand Gehlot on the floor of Parliament in August 2017 that the amendments did not affect the rights of the state governments to notify backward classes for reservation.But the majority judgment rejected this plea. “I am convinced that there is no reason to depart from the text which is in clear terms and rely upon the legislative history to construe Article 342 A contrary to the language...”Stating that the states could only make suggestions with the President having the exclusive authority to notify the list of SEBCs, justice Bhat added that once the list was notified, states could exercise their power under Article 15(4) and 16(4) to decide on extent of reservations, the kind of benefits, the quantum of scholarships, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-asks-sc-to-review-order-on-state-s-role-in-defining-obcs-101620939385872.html
14-05-2021||India||Take second Covishield jab after 12-16 weeks: Govt||Indians who take the first dose of Covishield should wait between 12-16 weeks before taking the second shot, the Union government said on Thursday, approving a new set of recommendations from a technical expert group that will help give the first doses to more people and is consistent with studies that suggest a longer interval may offer better efficacy.The doubling of the gap between doses from 6-8 weeks to 12-16 applies only to the Covishield dose, with the suggested interval for Covaxin remaining at 4-6 weeks. At least 90% of the doses administered in India are of Covishield, the made-in-India version of the Oxford University-AstraZeneca vaccine, according to the Co-WIN dashboard data as on Thursday.“Based on the available real life evidence, particularly from the UK, the Covid-19 Working Group agreed for increasing the dosing interval to 12-16 weeks between two doses of Covishield vaccine. No change in interval of Covaxin vaccine doses was recommended,” said a statement by the government.The statement added that the suggestion was accepted by the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC), headed by Niti Aayog member VK Paul, in its meeting on May 12, and finally by the Union health ministry.“The earlier recommendation for a gap of 4-6 weeks was based on data available at the time. As more data became available, it was seen that increasing the duration helps,” Paul said at the government’s weekly press briefing on the Covid-10 situation on Thursday.“Now, this decision is based on periodic reviews and on what we have seen as the real-life experience in UK where millions have taken the dose. The data was closely analysed and WHO experts were consulted, so we can be confident about the science around this decision,” he added.On March 23, the government expanded the second dose interval to 6-8 weeks from the 4-6 week initially announced for Covishield.According to officials aware of the matter, who asked not to be named, the government’s expert committees are also deliberating upon questions on if pregnant women or lactating mothers can be given coronavirus vaccines, and whether people who recovered from an infection should wait at least six months before they get a dose.At present, pregnant or nursing mothers are not included in the list of people eligible for vaccines in India.Several countries have also deliberated on these questions and some have clear policies. The UK’s Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation (JCVI) has recommended that the second dose of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine be given up to 12 weeks after the first. The European Medicines Agency too recommends a 12 week gap at most, although Spain expanded it to 16 weeks in late April.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageMost western expert groups, however, do not suggest a particular embargo for when Covid-recovered people should take a vaccine, as long as they no longer have symptoms of the disease or if they were given some particular treatment during their disease.“If you were treated for Covid-19 with monoclonal antibodies or convalescent plasma, you should wait 90 days before getting a Covid-19 vaccine. Talk to your doctor if you are unsure what treatments you received or if you have more questions about getting a Covid-19 vaccine,” says the US Centers for Disease Control (CDC) in its explainer on Covid-19 vaccination.Paul denied when asked by reporters if the decision was made to primarily help ease the supply crunch since many states are recording a rush for vaccines, especially since adults below the age of 45 became eligible from May 1.According to Paul, India has a projected production capacity for the approved vaccines at 73 million for the month, which on average is adequate for just around 2.5 million vaccinations a day -- lower than the peak rate of 4.2 million recorded by the country in early April. Several states have stopped vaccinations and shut down centres due to a lack of doses.“Please have faith in our scientific processes. The National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) is a body of individuals of high integrity. And this body does not only look at Covid-19 vaccinations, it also reviews the entire immunisation process in the country. It has been active from much earlier, and functions purely on the basis of scientific evidence before it,” he added.Dr Balram Bhargava, director general, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), and secretary, department of health research, also said that among key questions that the experts were dealing with in this pandemic was when to give the second vaccine dose.“There has been a lot of scientific deliberation on the matter, and much of it is still underway. The Covid-19 working group has already met some four times to discuss this and other issues. The meetings also had developers of Covishield from Oxford and they presented latest data,” he said.The recommendations for a longer dosing gap comes from a Phase 3 trial data set released in February after studies of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine conducted in Brazil, South Africa and UK found efficacy increased to 82.4% when the second shot was given at 12 weeks or more. Between 6-8 weeks of having been given the second dose, the efficacy was found to be 59.9%.“It is a good move to extend the gap as there is quality data from UK to suggest that the neutralising ability of the antibodies increased significantly when gap was increased. The second dose works like a booster shot. Giving a time gap, however, is not suitable for a vaccine that is an inactivated whole virion vaccine,” said Dr NK Mehra, immunology and immunogenetics expert, who was formerly a senior faculty and dean at New Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences.Dr Gagandeep Kang, one of country’s top vaccinologists, said “Canada’s committee also decided on 4 months as trials showed continued good/improved response after 12 weeks.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/take-second-covishield-jab-after-12-16-weeks-govt-101620938342084.html
14-05-2021||India||15 more die at Goa hospital after drop in oxygen levels||Fifteen patients at state-run Goa Medical College and Hospital died allegedly of oxygen shortage early on Thursday despite high court directives to shore up supplies, barely two days after 26 people succumbed to low oxygen flow at the state’s premier hospital.Oxygen levels dropped between 2am and 6am on Thursday morning and 15 people lost their lives, hospital authorities told the Bombay high court at Goa, a day after the judges asked the government to do whatever it takes to ensure no deaths occur due to oxygen shortages for “at least one night”.“Around 15 people lost their lives last night between 2am and 6am at GMC the hours during which the oxygen levels have been dropping for every night for the last five days or so,” the hospital told the court via Advocate General Devidas Pangam.On Tuesday, 26 patients being treated for Covid 19 died between 2am and 6am with Goa health minister Vishwajit Rane saying the hospital got only a third of the 1,200 oxygen cylinders required and pushing for a probe by the high court.Oxygen shortages were reported in multiple wards of the GMC that are set aside for treating Covid patients on Wednesday night with the situation being a repeat of the previous four days when oxygen also ran out.“Despite raising SOSes, police and health dept officials reaching GMC in the wee hours of the night after the alarm of oxygen fluctuations in the central pipeline was raised, 15 people died last night. Again,” tweeted Shruti Chaturvedi, one of the petitioners.Medical college dean Dr Shivanand Bandekar said not all the deaths could be attributed to dropping oxygen pressure. The dean had earlier admitted to shortages and said that shortages could also claim patient’s lives in the long term.“Reduced oxygen saturation lasting for a significant duration causes tissue hypoxia and irreversible tissue damage. This is worse in the presence of comorbidities and old age. The death following such hypoxemia and organ hypoxia may be immediate, or most of the time after some period of time,” he said.Critical patients will be shifted out of wards witnessing low oxygen pressure and moved to a newly commissioned block where the supply is steady, he added.The health department told the court that oxygen levels dropped because of “logistical issues involved in maneuvering the tractor that carries the trolleys of oxygen and in connecting the cylinders to the manifold”.“During this process there was some interruption, which resulted in fall of pressure in the supply lines of oxygen to the patients. Basically on account of these factors some casualties may have taken place,” the advocate general told the court.The oxygen shortage at the premier hospital signals a fresh crisis for the coastal state where every second person tested for Covid is found positive this week. The state posted 2,491 fresh cases and 63 deaths on Thursday.GMC, which that is handling more patients than its bed capacity, delivers oxygen in two ways -- 700 regular beds are supplied through a central pipeline, and 250 additional beds set up during the pandemic are tended to by loose cylinders that need to be replaced and refilled. Bandekar told the court on Wednesday the hospital was facing a shortage of 6.5 metric tonne (MT) of oxygen per day, and that supply was not being augmented.On Wednesday, the high court warned the hospital authorities and state government, saying the right to life was a fundamental right guaranteed by Article 21 of the Constitution, which placed a duty on the State to ensure that life was not extinguished on account of its inability to supply oxygen. . “This duty can neither be avoided by pleading helplessness nor by putting forth logistical difficulties in sourcing and supplying oxygen,” the court said.For five straight days, oxygen pressure has dropped at the hospital during the same early morning hour, which the court now begun to refer to as ‘dark hours.’On Thursday, relatives of patients raised an alarm as soon as oxygen levels started falling, and the police and health department staff were called in to try and rectify the issue. But it was several hours before the supply was stablised, leaving those admitted facing potential organ damage that could have lasting effects even if they recover.Relatives complained that the pressure was running low for several days and patients were left to fend for themselves. “My sister Laura Fernandes is admitted in GMC hospital, Goa with severe pneumonia. She has been admitted on May 7, She is fighting for her life, while her two young kids are waiting for their mother to come home. The first few nights at the hospital were frightening as the oxygen ran low at night and patients were dying during this time,” Christine Fernandes said.“We got a cylinder from then on May 11, but no doctors were willing to help fix it. My brother in law went home on May 12, got his tools and fixed the cylinder by himself,” she added.A police complaint was filed against Rane, accusing him of culpable homicide not amounting to murder for failing to ensure adequate supply of oxygen to the state’s premier institute. “Goa’s oxygen shortage is man-made and the brain child of Vishwajit Rane and the supplier,” the complaint filed by Bento Lorena, also a member of the Bharatiya Janata Party, said. Rane also belongs to BJP, which rules the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/15-more-die-at-goa-hospital-after-drop-in-oxygen-levels-101620934072024.html
14-05-2021||India||CSI annual retreat: Two more Kerala priests die of Covid||Thiruvananthapuram: Two more Christian priests, who had tested positive for Covid-19 after attending the Church of South India (CSI) annual retreat in Munnar (Idukki district) from April 13-17, died on Wednesday while condition of five others were critical, church insiders told HT on Thursday. Father C Binokumar (39) and Father Y Devaprasad (59) died in CSI Medical College Hospital in Karakonam and five others are on ventilator support, a church insider said. With the two deaths, the toll from those attending the annual retreat jumped to four. Police registered a case against 400-odd priests, including CSI South Kerala Diocese Bishop Father Dharmaraj Rasalam, on May 5 for allegedly flouting Covid-19 protocols to organise a religious retreat in hill station Munnar.The case was registered after the Devikulam Sub-Collector submitted a report that permission was not sought for the large gathering and norms were flouted, which triggered a super-spread. The incident surfaced after two priests died of Covid-19 in May first week and more than 100 participants reportedly tested positive. Some of the reformist groups in the church alleged that a section of priests was forced to attend the retreat after church authorities threatened them. There were many attempts to hush up the case and most of the infected were shifted to a medical college run by the church along the Kerala-Tamil Nadu border discreetly, they alleged. The case was registered under Section 269 of the Indian Penal Code and sections of the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Control Act after a senior revenue official inquired the incident and found that more than 450 people, majority of them priests, attended the meet while flouting pandemic norms. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan had termed the incident “unfortunate.” The incident came to light at a time when the state is battling the surging second wave of the pandemic. Kerala reported 39,955 cases on Thursday, taking the active caseload to 438, 913. A total of 97 people succumbed to the infection on Thursday, taking the toll in the state to 6,150, according to health department data. Church insiders said all restrictions were flouted and when some young priests questioned the timing of the retreat, they were threatened with disciplinary action by authorities. However, the church maintained that all precautions were taken and only 28 priests and not 100 had tested positive. The CSI retreat is the latest religious event to hit the headlines for recklessness during the pandemic. Last year, at the beginning of the first wave, a congregation of the Tablighi Jamaat in New Delhi caused a spike in cases. Similarly, last month’s congregation at the Kumbh Mela also contributed to spike in cases in many north Indian states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/csi-annual-retreat-two-more-kerala-priests-die-of-covid-101620934012477.html
14-05-2021||India||TN all-party meeting resolve to intensify on-going lockdown||Chennai: An all-party meeting led by chief minister M K Stalin on Thursday evening passed a unanimous resolution to intensify the on-going lockdown in Tamil Nadu on a day that the state reported 30,608 new cases taking the active caseload to 1,83,722. Number of deaths are also rising with 297 patients succumbing to the virus on Thursday. The state went into a full lockdown from May 10 which will go on until May 24 to bring down rising cases in the second wave of Covid-19. Essential like groceries are allowed until 12 noon and restaurants can function only for take aways and delivery executives are permitted. All other activities had been halted and marriages and funerals were allowed with specific number of people. The specifics of how it will be further intensified is yet to be released by the government. “Officials will meet tonight to decide on the the aspects to intensify the lockdown and make an announcement,” health minister M Subramanian told reporters after the meeting. A total of five resolutions were adopted at the meeting. An advisory committee which would comprise of representatives of all legislature parties in the state to make recommendations on control measures, all parties would extend their cooperation for relief work, all political parties have agreed to stop organising public meetings and political events and to set an example by adhering to the Covid-19 norms.In the meeting which went on for almost three hours at the state secretariat, Stalin said that relaxations in the lockdown were announced only to ensure that livelihoods aren’t affected but people were using this as loopholes to violate lockdown norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-all-party-meeting-resolve-to-intensify-on-going-lockdown-101620933891985.html
14-05-2021||India||Infant among four killed in Andhra Pradesh road accident||Hyderabad: Four people, including a four-month-old infant, died on the spot while five others sustained injuries, after a container truck rammed into the car in which they were travelling in Andhra Pradesh’s East Godavari district in the early hours of Thursday, police said. According to Peddapuram sub-inspector of police A Balaji, the incident happened in front of Ruchi Soya Factory on the outskirts of Peddapuram town on Kakinada-Samalkot state highway. He said the family of nine were going in a sports utility vehicle from Peddavalasa village of Tallarevu block to Rajahmundry to attend a house warming ceremony. “As the car was crossing the industrial area on the outskirts of Peddapuram town, a speeding container truck coming from the opposite direction rammed into the SUV. Four persons including a five-month-old baby, a woman and two men died on the spot,” Balaji said. The deceased have been identified as, Vanamadi Eshwar Rao (36), Vanamadi Annapurna (33), Aradadi Swamy (55) and a four-month-old baby (name not known). Five others, including the person driving the car, were injured in the mishap.Though a partial lockdown is in place in Andhra Pradesh till May 18, however, there is no restrictions on travel between 6am till 12 noon. According to the SI, the accident took place at around 4.30 am, but the family had not taken any curfew pass. “They might have thought they could reach the destination before they were noticed by the police,” he said. The locals, who immediately informed the police, rescued the injured who were trapped inside the vehicle. “Three of them were taken to Peddapuram area hospital and two others were taken to Kakinada government hospital,” the SI said. The Peddapuram police, who arrested the truck driver, registered a case under sections 337 and 304 (A) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Further investigation is on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/infant-among-four-killed-in-andhra-pradesh-road-accident-101620933831982.html
14-05-2021||India||MLC elections in Andhra pradesh and Telangana postponed due to pandemic||Hyderabad The Election Commission of India on Thursday announced indefinite postponement of biennial elections to the state legislative councils of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, scheduled to be held this month, due to the ongoing second wave of Covid-19 pandemic. According to an official release from the ECI, the term of three members of Andhra Pradesh state legislative council and that of six members of Telangana state legislative council would expire on May 31 and June 3 respectively. The elections to these MLC seats will be held under the MLA’s quota. As such, they will be elected by the members of respective state legislative assemblies. As per the provisions of Section 16 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, the elections to these MLC seats have to be held before the expiry of the term of sitting members. The EC said it had reviewed the matter and decided that due to outbreak of the second wave of Covid-19, it would not be appropriate to hold biennial election to the Legislative Councils of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana respectively till the pandemic situation significantly improves. “The Commission will take a decision in the matter at appropriate time after taking inputs from the states concerned and assessing the pandemic situation from mandated authorities like National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) and State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA),” the EC official note said. In Andhra Pradesh, three MLCs who would be completing their term on May 31 are legislative council chairman Mohd Ahmed Sharif (Telugu Desam Party), Devasani Chinan Govind Reddy (YSR Congress) and Somu Veerraju (Bharatiya Janata Party). In Telangana, the outgoing members of the legislative council are legislative council chairman Gutha Sukhender Reddy, deputy chairman Neti Vidyasagar, Kadiyam Srihari, Akula Lalitha and Bodakunti Venkateshwarlu (all Telangana Rashtra Samithi). Since both the YSR Congress and the Telangana Rashtra Samithi have more than the required number of MLAs in the Andhra and Telangana assemblies respectively, the new members can get elected without any contest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mlc-elections-in-andhra-pradesh-and-telangana-postponed-due-to-pandemic-101620933771951.html
14-05-2021||India||Centre’s vaccine allocation to TN should not be diverted: HC||Chennai The Madras high court on Thursday said that the Centre’s allocation to Tamil Nadu on vaccines should not be diverted because of the state’s decision a day back to call for a global tender. During the hearing on the suo motu case registered to monitor preparedness of Covid-19 second wave in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, a division bench comprising Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy observed that a global tender may be a long drawn process. “As and when the global tender matures and supplies are received, the state’s allocation by the Centre may be appropriately reworked,” the court said. The court reiterated its suggestions from a day back that vaccine centres be relocated from hospitals to minimise the spread of the virus. The court recorded that the Centre has increased oxygen supply to the state to 510 MT per day but the supply of 40 MT from Palakkad in Kerala to southern and western districts in Tamil Nadu may have been halted from Thursday. Additional Solicitor General (ASG) R Sankaranarayanan informed the court that additional oxygen supply would come from Orissa by Thursday night to make up for the loss. “Overall there doesn’t appear to be a great dearth of oxygen in the state at the moment,” the court said. “By and large things appear to be under control and nothing untoward has thankfully been reported on account of lack of oxygen or the like.”But during the hearing, an advocate Naveen Kumar Murthi alleged that at least nine patients have died waiting in ambulances at Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) in Chennai. Advocate General R Shunmughasundaram appearing for the state explained that the government hospital doesn’t deny admissions and everyone is being monitored and that the state would address the situation. Measures are being adopted to increase the beds across the state, he added. The bench suggested that stretchers can be placed in corridors as a temporary measure if beds are unavailable. It pointed out that if ambulances are used to treat patients, other patients may not be able to avail ambulance facilities. “This is a war-like situation,” the court said.On the issue of vaccines to be made available for people with disabilities, the court hoped to get a better picture of the prospects of getting more vaccines before it can issue directions for prioritisation. The court also asked for immediate steps to be taken to accelerate vaccination by increasing awareness, particularly in non urban areas to prevent a large number of cases in the future. As there is a scramble for the drug Remdesivir in Chennai where people are waiting in serpentine queues and some are waiting overnight, the AG submitted that counters from Kilpauk Medical College will be shifted to the city’s Nehru indoor stadium. At least 20,000 vials will be sold in a day, the AG added. The next hearing has been adjourned to Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centres-vaccine-allocation-to-tn-should-not-be-diverted-hc-101620933711980.html
14-05-2021||India||Vijayan writes to PM seeking O2 urgently||Thiruvananthapuram: With the Covid-19 situation deteriorating in the state, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday wrote another letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking additional 300 metric tonne of medical oxygen on an urgent basis. This is the third letter Vijayan has written to the PM in 10 days. “We have a capacity to generate 212 MT daily but experts said oxygen demand will rise to 426 MT in view of rising cases. Besides this, a low pressure is also forming fast in Arabian Sea and it is likely to take cyclonic proportions. So we have to get prepared,” he said. Red alert was sounded in five districts in view of a cyclonic threat.The state on Thursday reported another high recording 39,955 cases with a test positivity rate (TPR) of 28.61%. Two districts Ernakulam (32%) and Malappuram (38%) have reported TPR above 30% while in some of the local bodies in these districts, TPR is above 50%, health ministry data shows.As active caseload mounted, the government has given directions to all district administrations to build makeshift hospital to meet the influx of patients. They have been asked to take the help of state and central public sector units in their districts. Many schools, colleges, hostels and stadiums have been turned into temporary hospital to meet the surge.In one of the worst –affected districts in Ernakulam, the country’s largest temporary Covid-19 hospital is coming up in Ambalavayal in Kochi having 1,500 beds and direct oxygen supply from nearby Bharat Petroleum Corporation of Limited (BPCL) plant. Ernakulam district collector S Suhas said the first phase of the hospital with 500 beds has been opened to patients and it will be fully functional by next week.“We deliberately chose the place for the makeshift hospital because of the proximity with the BPCL plant. We will have direct oxygen supply from the plant and it will save enough time in transportation and logistics,” said the collector. In several parts of the country delay in supply of oxygen cylinders and technical glitches resulted in many deaths. “We are fighting hard to contain the surge. But this new hospital, largest with 1,500 oxygen beds, will be a game changer. We can contain fatality rate considerably in the district,” he said. The BPCL has the capacity to deliver 2 MT medical oxygen daily and it can be raised after gauging the need. The district administration has also appointed 400 nurses and other medical workers for the new hospital.“The high TPR is a concern but we are doing our best to bring down numbers. Cases are increasing due to presence of strong mutants and we are trying to improve the recovery rate to control the influx,” a senior health official said, adding that only serious patients who need oxygen will be admitted in the new hospital in Ambalavayal. A commercial hub Kochi has a sizeable population of workers from other states, especially from the north east.A close look at the health ministry data shows in last two weeks there has been a steady rise in cases and fatality rate. On Thursday, 1,39, 656 people were tested out of which 39,955 tested Covid positive. The state also reported 97 deaths taking total fatality to 6,150. The active caseload also jumped to 4,38,913. Among 14 districts, TPR in 10 districts is above 20%. The state is currently undergoing a lockdown till May 16 and it is likely to be extended.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vijayan-writes-to-pm-seeking-o2-urgently-101620933651909.html
14-05-2021||India||Dr Shetty to head K’taka task force to tackle Covid-19||Bengaluru: The Karnataka government on Thursday announced the name of cardiac surgeon Dr Devi Shetty as the head of the task force set up to help prepare the state for the potential third wave of Covid-19. The announcement was made by chief minister BS Yediyurappa, who added that Gagan Deep Kang, Professor of Microbiology in Christian Medical College will be appointed as an adviser on the state’s vaccination strategy. Talking about the vaccine strategy the CM’s office on Thursday said that Karnataka is preparing to procure 50 million doses for the age group of 18-44 years. “The state has placed a purchase order for 30 million doses of vaccines, 20 million doses of Covishield and 10 million doses of Covaxin. We are floating global tenders for an additional 20 million,” read a statement from the CM’s office. It further added that 1.48 million beneficiaries have completed 6 weeks after taking the Covishield vaccine and are eligible for the second dose and 5,10,000 beneficiaries have completed 4 weeks after taking the first dose of Covaxin and are eligible for 2nd dose. Thus, a total of 1.97 million persons are eligible for 2nd dose as of today. “It is necessary to complete the second dose as early as possible to give full protection to the people who have taken 1st dose. Hence, we have decided to utilize the entire stock available with us for the 2nd dose of the eligible beneficiaries,” read the statement. In this context, the government also added that the CoWin application also was found to have certain limitations on where one chooses to be vaccinated leading to chaos across centres. “To better manage the vaccination process, we are coming up with a technology solution soon; post which we will re-launch the vaccination programme for the 18-44 age group,” said the CM’s office. The statement added that the government is tackling the increased Oxygen requirement through a 3-pronged strategy of increasing Supply of Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO), massive scaling of localized generation capacity through oxygen generators, large scale procurement of concentrators and cylinders. “Government of India has increased the allocation of oxygen from 965 MT to 1,015 MT. We are lifting the entire allocation given to us from within the state and making efforts to bring as much as possible from the other States. In addition, we have received 40 MT of oxygen from Bahrain and another 100 MT from Kuwait. We have brought 120 MT of oxygen from Jamshedpur by train,” the statement added. Meanwhile, the SSLC examinations slated to start from June 21 stands postponed announced primary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar. The increasing Covid cases in the state coupled with the concerns of parent-students and many school associations has resulted in this decision. A suitable call will be taken after the second wave of Covid -19 dies down, the minister said in a statement. He also emphasised that the revised dates will be announced much ahead of schedule. The minister appealed that the students must not get disheartened and continue with their studious preparations.State’s death toll due to Covid-19 touched 20,712 with 344 new fatalities on Thursday, while 35,297 fresh cases took the infection count to 20,88,488, the health department said. The state has 5,93,078 active cases. Bengaluru Urban district reported 15,191 new cases and 161 fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dr-shetty-to-head-k-taka-task-force-to-tackle-covid19-101620933472471.html
14-05-2021||India||Karnataka HC pulls up govt over shortage of Covid jabs||Bengaluru: The Karnataka high court on Thursday raised concerns over the shortage of Covid-19 vaccines in the state and delay in administering the second dose of vaccine. The bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar said that the state has only 1.1 million vaccines, while there was a need to provide the second dose to 3.1 million people. “How are you going to bridge the gap?” the bench asked Additional Solicitor General of India (ASG) Aishwarya Bhati. It went on to question the government on the consequences of missing the second dose. If someone takes a second dose of Covaxin after 4 weeks and Covishield, after 8 weeks, what will happen? Is it not the right of a person under Article 21 to get the second dose in a timely manner? the bench asked. In response, ASG said the stipulated period is the ideal period. Over the ideal period, the vaccine can be taken “A core group is studying and in two days they will give us a report,” Bhati said. In response, the bench said: “These are all excuses giving to us. You tell us how you will bridge the gap. Is it not necessary that maximum people should get immunity?” The ASG told the bench that states have been advised to prioritise vaccination for those above 45 years of age receiving the second dose and that 70% of vaccines allotted by the Union government must be dedicated for this purpose. “You must come clean before the members of the public... Come with the truth... Some people are going to vaccination centres and coming back. You need to set a priority on who will get vaccines now,” the bench said. “Your ministers and others should tell the truth to people... Tell the truth to the public, don’t make any inconsistent statements to the public. Put up the data of available vaccines on some website,” it further added. The Karnataka government on Wednesday had temporarily suspended the vaccination drive for the 18-44 age group. In another order, the bench asked all testing laboratories in the state to issue Covid test results within 24 hours of collecting swab samples. The direction was issued after a court staff member died on Wednesday. The staffer was unaware he had Covid; the results of his tests conducted on May 10 didn’t arrive until his death. “We direct the state to initiate action against those concerned and submit a report,” said the Bench.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-hc-pulls-up-govt-over-shortage-of-covid-jabs-101620933412024.html
14-05-2021||India||B’luru crematoriums feel the heat as Covid deaths rise||Bengaluru: As Bengaluru continues to report more than 250 deaths every day for the past week, crematoriums in the city are feeling the heat. At one such crematorium in Chamarapet, putting “houseful” board outside its gates last week was a sign of the troubles ahead. Bengaluru has seven designated electric crematoriums for Covid-19 fatalities, six electric crematoriums for both Covid and non-Covid deaths, and three open-air crematoriums. However, as of Thursday, three electric crematoriums were non-functional after their furnaces broke down. The gravity of the situation could be gauged from the fact that the Bengaluru city administration has now converted an unused quarry in Geddanahalli into an open crematorium. A senior Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) official, who did not wish to be named, said the sustained high number of cases is putting severe pressure on the crematoriums. “Now, we are reporting around 250 Covid deaths per day (over the last week) and one day we reported even more than 300 deaths. Before this, when the city was reporting around 100 deaths per day, the pressure on the furnaces was high. Now they have started to break down due to high number of deaths. If there is no drastic reduction in numbers, it would lead to more breakdowns,” said the official. He added that Sumanahalli electric crematorium, which is one of the largest facilities in the city for the last rites of Covid-19 victims, was shut for maintenance after the nonstop burning of bodies resulted in equipment damage. After repairs, the crematorium was reopened on Tuesday. By then, three more crematoriums -- JJR Nagar, Banashankari and Wilson Garden – went for repair. As per BBMP estimates, they would be reopened only by May 20. “The average number of cremations that can be done at the crematoriums was around 10. In the last week of April, we were cremating 20-25 bodies per day. Now, it has gone up to 30 or more per day. When any machine is pushed beyond its limits, it will break down,” said Vinod P, a supervisor at Summanhalli crematorium. Meanwhile, the Karnataka government is looking at creating more open cremation grounds to address the issue. So far, four open crematoriums have been opened in TR Mills, Tavarekere, Guddanahalli and Anekal. A long-unused burial ground in Tavarekere has also been designated for Covid-19 burials, while a granite quarry in Geddanahalli was recently converted into a cremation ground. The new cremation facility at Geddanahalli, about 25 km from the city centre, has been receiving between 30 and 40 bodies from Bengaluru every day, officials said. According to officials, work at Tavarekere and Geddanahalli crematoriums was briefly halted on Monday and Wednesday due to rains. Following the disruption, hearse vans were diverted to other crematoriums. A temporary roof has now been erected at Tavarekere. Meanwhile, the BBMP is finding it difficult to open new places for cremations because of the lack of human resources. An official in the BBMP told Hindustan Times that those employed at the newly created open cremation grounds have no prior experience in the job. They perform the duties with the help of some volunteers, he added. Rajesh, a crematorium worker, said they are already getting 30-35 bodies per day at TR Mills. “Our work starts around 7 am and it goes on till late night, there is no one to take over from us. We can’t even take a break,” he said. Karnataka’s revenue minister R Ashoka said on Wednesday that a dedicated helpline would be set up to address issues related to the last rites of Covid-19 victims. There have been several complaints about delays at crematoriums and hassles faced by distraught families and volunteers assisting them. Bengaluru has been recording high number of casualties due to Covid-19 in the past few weeks. On Saturday, Bengaluru reported 285 Covi-19 fatalities, which increased to 374, the highest daily toll in 15 months of the pandemic, on Monday. On Wednesday, 275 deaths were reported in Bengaluru.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bluru-crematoriums-feel-the-heat-as-covid-deaths-rise-101620933292620.html
14-05-2021||India||BJP issues ‘fact sheet’ to refute Oppn charges||New Delhi : The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Thursday issued a “fact sheet” to counter the Oppositions’s allegations about the government’s handling of the Covid-19 crisis, including a sluggish vaccination policy and other systemic health care deficiencies. The fact sheet, shared on social media platforms, was a step-by-step attempt to refute some of the charges.On the allegation that the Modi government did not see the second wave of cases coming, for example, the document said that the PM, in a meeting with chief ministers on March 17, alerted states about a second wave coming, and asked them to take quick steps before it gets too late. It similarly attempt to counter narratives on differential pricing of vaccines for states and the Centre, deaths being under-reported, inaccurate government data, money being spent on the Central Vista project amid the pandemic, and that it would take 2-3 years to vaccinate the entire population at the current rate.“The Central Vista is a project that costs ₹20,000 crore over several years. In contrast, the vaccination budget in just 2021–22 is Rs35,000 crore and the health budget of the country in just the same period is over ₹2 lakh crore,” the fact sheet said.It also pointed to comparisons between how well New Zealand handled the crisis, by pointing out that it has less people than Bengaluru, and that India’s population is more than that of Europe and North Korea combined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-issues-fact-sheet-to-refute-oppn-charges-101620932391885.html
14-05-2021||India||Even virus has right to live: Ex-CM Rawat||Amid rise in the number of Covid-19 cases and deaths in the state and country, Uttarakhand’s former chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat has drawn flak from Opposition and experts for his remark, “Covid-19 virus has a right to live.”“If we talk philosophically, then Covid-19 virus is also a living organism which wants to live and has a right to live just like humans. However, we consider ourselves more intelligent than any other living organism. We are now after it and want to escape, the virus is changing its form constantly,” he said while giving interview to a local news channel here.“Hence, we now have to keep distance from it. It is also moving and we are also moving, but we have to move fast than it so that it gets left behind,” he further said.The video clip of the interview was widely shared on social media after which Opposition parties Congress and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) attacked him for an “irresponsible and foolish” statement when “lakhs have died due to the virus.”Congress state vice-president Suryakant Dhasmana said, “What Rawat, who was state’s CM, said, is nothing but foolish and nonsense. He has no vision because of which he was replaced abruptly by his party. “The virus is a living organism, so was Ravana, Kansa and Mahishasura. But they all were killed by different gods because they were destroying the world just like this virus who has killed lakhs of humans on this planet and needs to be killed. Rawat is just uttering sheer nonsense.”Trivendra Singh Rawat was replaced by the party leadership in March this year. The Lok Sabha MP from Garhwal and former state BJP chief, Tirath SIngh Rawat succeeded Trivendra Singh Rawat, as the new state CM. AAP state spokesperson Amarjeet Singh Rana while condemning Rawat said, “It is ridiculous that he was once the CM of this state. This shows his and BJP leaders’ wisdom. They are making Uttarakhand a laughing stock.”The BJP meanwhile, accused Congress and AAP of indulging in blame game than working for humanity in the pandemic.Party media in-charge Manveer Singh Chauhan said, “Congress is just playing a dirty blame-game and sees everything in negative even in this pandemic. While the AAP is doing this just for cheap publicity as it has no political presence in the state. Both of them should rather indulge in serving the humanity.”On Rawat calling the virus a living organism, Uttarakhand state secretary of Indian Medical Association (IMA) Dr Ajay Khanna said, “Covid-19 virus is a living organism. But it’s killing people.”Another IMA office bearer, on condition of anonymity however, condemned Rawat on saying that Covid has a right to live.“It is really unfortunate for this country that when dead bodies are increasing every day in this country, a leader like Rawat who has been the CM of Uttarakhand is saying that Covid-19 virus is a living organism and has a right to live. It is just shameful and insult to all those who lost their lives to this lethal virus,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/even-virus-has-right-to-live-ex-cm-rawat-101620932331889.html
14-05-2021||India||Action being taken on GOM communication report, says Govt||The government is working on recommendations made by the working Group of Ministers on communication (GOM) formed last year to improve the centre’s media outreach strategy, the ministry of Information and Broadcasting said in response to a Right to Information (RTI) application filed by Hindustan Times.“Action taken on the GOM report is still continuing,” the RTI response said, adding that “it maybe premature to disclose the details as it would serve no public interest.”Hindustan Times, which reviewed the GOM report, on December 8 reported that the Union government was working on a strategy to overhaul its media and public outreach, with a group of ministers (GoM) comprising nine Union ministers recommending a focus on 10 key areas as well as detailing ways in which criticism could be addressed and positive messaging can be spread wider.“The final deliberations of the GOM will have to be cleared by the Cabinet,” a senior government official said on condition of anonymity.The recommendations also focused on social media discourse, saying there is a need to constantly track 50 “negative influencers”, and to engage with 50 “positive influencers” to put the “government’s view point in the right perspective.”The RTI filed by HT seeking details on the action taken by the GOM was disposed by the First Appellate Authority citing section 8 1 (I) of the RTI Act, 2005. The section refers to cabinet papers including records of deliberations of the Council of Ministers, Secretaries and other officers: “ Provided that the decisions of Council of Ministers, the reasons thereof, and the material on the basis of which the decisions were taken shall be made public after the decision has been taken, and the matter is complete, or over: Provided further that those matters which come under the exemptions specified in this section shall not be disclosed,” it states.The GoM comprises Cabinet ministers Ravi Shankar Prasad, Smriti Irani, Prakash Javadekar, S Jaishankar, Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, and ministers of state Kiren Rijiju, Hardeep Singh Puri, Anurag Thakur and Babul Supriyo.The group made its first presentation to the Prime Minister, who guided the GoM with his insights and gave vital inputs, the December report noted.“After detailed deliberations, it was decided to identify 10 big narratives of the Government. These narratives are reflective of the good work / initiatives taken by the Government for the welfare of the people. It was agreed to identify the strategies that can be adopted to take these messages to the people and to suggest the specific action points by which it can be done,” the GOM report said.The 10 areas identified were: India at 75; plans to make the country a $5 trillion economy; initiatives under Aatmanirbhar Bharat; the overall Sabka Saath, Sabha Vikar, Sabha Vishwas philosophy of the government; Digital India; the Swach Bharat, Swasth Bharat campaign; welfare schemes for women; Skill India; the focus on sustainable development; and the projection of the country’s soft power.The report attracted criticism from the opposition. CPM chief Sitaram Yechury earlier this year said: “So much focus on managing headlines, spin and PR, all this in the middle of a global pandemic, record and growing unemployment and economic collapse.”The report also included recomendations made by the members of the GOM . Anurag Thakur suggested that “right-wing parties of other countries need to be roped in so that some common ground could be found”.Aviation minister Hardeep Puri said “we are in confrontation situation with political interest and commercially-backed interests” and emphasised the “strong need to deal with the international media and shape the global narrative”.Union minister for minority affairs Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi Proposed to identify a “strategy to neutralise people who are writing against the government without facts and set false narratives/ spread fake news.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-working-on-gom-plan-to-improve-media-outreach-to-tackle-criticism-101620932213147.html
14-05-2021||India||Bihar extends lockdown till May 25, test positivity rate dips to 8.9%||The Bihar government on Thursday extended the lockdown for another 10 days, from May 16 till May 25, after reviewing the positive impact that the lockdown had on the state between May 5 and May 15. An announcement to this effect was made by chief minister Nitish Kumar through social media platform Twitter. “Reviewed the ongoing lockdown in Bihar with ministerial colleagues and officials. We can see that the lockdown is having a positive impact. Therefore, we have decided to extend the lockdown in the state for 10 days, from May 16-25, 2021,” a rough translation of Kumar’s tweet, posted in Hindi, read. On May 4, the Crisis Management Group of the Bihar government had decided to impose a lockdown in the state, from May 5-15, amid a rise in daily Covid-19 cases. “The lockdown is showing desired results. After taking the opinion of the district magistrates, it was decided by the Crisis Management Group to extend the lockdown for 10 more days till May 25,” said chief secretary Tripurari Sharan. According to a Bihar health department bulletin on May 13, the state recorded 7,752 positive cases on Wednesday, the reports of which came on Thursday. “During this period, the state government has modified its earlier order by advancing the timings for opening different shops. Now the shops selling milk, vegetables, non-vegetarian items and other essential commodities will open from 6 am till 10 am in urban areas and from 8 am till 12 noon in rural areas,” said additional chief secretary (home) Chaitanya Prasad. Earlier, these shops were opening from 7 am till 11 am. The government has also revised the number of guests for marriages from 50 to 20 only. “All other restrictions enforced earlier will remain in place,” said Prasad. The 11-day lockdown has brought some relief for the Bihar government which was facing all-round flak following shortage of beds in hospitals, irregular oxygen supply, shortage of medicines, exorbitant prices being charged by ambulances, etc. “The positivity rate which stood at 15.7% on May 2 has come down to 8.9% on May 12,” said additional chief secretary (health) Pratyaya Amrit. Similarly, there has been a steady fall in the number of positive cases – from 14,436 on May 4 to 7,752 on May 12 while the recovery rate has also improved from 78.38% on May 5 to 83.43% on May 12. According to the health department sources, in the last one week, the number of new infections has grown by an average of 2.1% every day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-extends-lockdown-till-may-25-test-positivity-rate-dips-to-89-101620932212641.html
14-05-2021||India||EC forms core panel to identify ‘shortcomings’ after state polls||The Election Commission of India on Thursday set up a core committee headed by secretary general Umesh Sinha to identify the “learnings and shortcomings” from the poll experience of Bihar, Assam, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry, where polls were held amid the Covid-19 pandemic, in a bid to push for electoral reforms.“DECs of the ECI and CEOs of recent poll gone States, and few select Special Observers and Observers will be members of the Committee. While finalising its recommendations, the Committee will also take inputs from State Nodal Officers of different divisions like Police, Expenditure, Health authorities as well as from some DEOs, SPs & ROs identified by CEOs, Polling officials, BLOs about the issues and challenges faced at the grass root levels,” the commission said in a press release.HT learns that one reform that the commission contemplated was with reference to tackling “sensationalisation” of health issues that can become a sympathy factor in the polls, but it remained in the draft stage.The core committee set up by on Thursday will look into the “shortcomings /gaps in ECI regulatory regime”, if any, at the level of the chief electoral officer or district officials. It will explore the possibility of strengthening the legal framework to ensure compliance of guidelines. The committee will submit its report within a month.The committee will also identify “shortcomings in existing framework in providing protection to electoral machinery from possibility of reprisal after elections”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ec-forms-core-panel-to-identify-shortcomings-after-state-polls-101620932151878.html
14-05-2021||India||NRC coordinator moves SC for list re-verification||Assam National Register of Citizens (NRC) coordinator Hitesh Dev Sarma has approached the Supreme Court seeking a “comprehensive and time-bound” re-verification of the draft citizenship list released two years ago, citing major irregularities in the controversial process that excluded 1.9 million people.In his application, Sarma claimed several thousand ineligible people were included in the draft NRC while other genuine applicants were left out. The plea came days after Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said his government will push for partial re-verification of the citizens list.“Several serious, fundamental and substantial errors have crept into the whole process of updating the NRC in Assam. This has vitiated the entire exercise and the present draft and the supplementary list for inclusion & exclusion of NRC that has been published is not free from errors,” stated Sarma’s plea.The Supreme Court is yet to fix a date of hearing for this plea.The NRC was first conducted in 1951 and the process of updating it began after decades of agitation in 2015, monitored by the apex court. Citizens were required to show that they or their ancestors were present in Assam before March 24, 1971, the day war broke out in neighbouring Bangladesh and sent droves of refugees into Assam. The cut-off date was related to the Assam Accord of 1985 that marked the end of a six-year-long violent movement against illegal immigrants. The draft NRC published in July 2018 excluded roughly four million people and the final list in August 2019 left out around 1.9 million people.Almost immediately, controversy broke out as rights activists alleged many poor and marginalised people were discriminated against due to lack of citizenship papers, spelling mistakes or difficulty in understanding the complex process. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party also rejected the list, saying it excluded genuine citizens.In his plea, Sarma said office and field verification of applications could not detect manipulated or manufactured secondary documents, and were also unable to detect if the names were entered fraudulently in the electoral roll. He said the preparation of a correct and error-free NRC was integral to national security and the process was being closely monitored by the top court itself, therefore it was necessary to apprise the court of anomalies that occurred during the NRC updation process and seek remedial action.The application sought re-verification under the supervision of a monitoring committee, preferably represented by district judge, district magistrate and superintendent of police.Sarma said out of the 393,975 people who didn’t contest their exclusion in the July 2018 draft NRC, about 50,695 were later found to be eligible for inclusion. “This figure may increase if detail re-verification is done. For a flawless and complete NRC, names of these persons have to be included in the final NRC, failing which the final NRC will lose its acceptability,” the plea added.Previous applications in the top court for re-verification of NRC haven’t been successful.In July 2019, the top court rejected the Centre and the Assam government’s prayer for a sample re-verification. The Centre had asked the apex court to allow verification of 20% random samples of citizens. But the court referred to the then state coordinator’s report to say that a re-verification of 27% had already been done.On Monday, the CM said that the state government would seek 20% re-verification of the list in districts bordering Bangladesh and 10% re-verification in other districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nrc-coordinator-moves-sc-for-list-reverification-101620931971861.html
14-05-2021||India||Kalra denied pre-arrest bail in O2 devices case, moves HC||A Delhi court on Thursday refused to grant protection from arrest to businessman Navneet Kalra, who has been charged with hoarding oxygen concentrators and selling them at inflated prices, saying his custodial interrogation was required to unearth the entire alleged conspiracy, and that, if released, he may jump bail or tamper with evidence.Later in the day, Kalra approached the Delhi high court challenging the trial court decision. A single judge bench of justice Subramonium Prasad heard senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi appearing for Kalra and posted the matter for further hearing on Friday.The order came a day after four other co-accused obtained regular bail from the court of the chief metropolitan magistrate who said that the offence being established by the police was unclear.While Kalra has allegedly been on the run since the recovery of 524 oxygen concentrators from three of his restaurants – Khan Chacha, Town Hall and Nege & Ju – and from the office of Matrix Cellular last week, the police arrested five people, including the manager of Nege & Ju restaurant, Hitesh, and four senior officials of Matrix Cellular – Gourav Khanna, the chief executive officer (CEO), Gaurav, who is the business head, Sathish Sethi, the manager, and Vikrant, a sales executive in the company. Khanna was the last person to be arrested from Gurugram on Friday.A city court granted bail to Khanna, Gaurav and Vikrant and Sethi on Wednesday.Kalra, who operates optical stores and restaurants, approached the trial court claiming that he was doing business with a company Matrix Cellular (International) Services Limited in supplying oxygen concentrators to the needy affected by Covid-19 pandemic. He questioned the charge of cheating (IPC Section 420) invoked against him when there was no complaint made against him by any purchaser.Kalra also challenged charges under the Essential Commodities Act and the Epidemic Act for selling oxygen concentrators above its maximum retail price (MRP), saying till the time the police registered the case on May 5 against him and four others, there was no cap or ceiling price fixed for the concentrators by the Union or state governments. It was only on May 7, 2021 that the Drugs and Control Department of the Delhi government issued an order restricting sale of medical devices over and above the MRP, Kalra said in his anticipatory bail plea.Additional sessions judge Sandeep Garg rejected Kalra’s plea and said, “The accused persons have hatched a deep-rooted conspiracy to gain wrongfully, using the painfully pathetic situation caused due to the pandemic and compelled the needy persons to part with their hard-earned money much in excess of the acceptable international market rates of oxygen concentrators.”The judge noted that the concentrators were kept at three restaurants where Kalra held substantial stake, and each device was allegedly being sold at a price of about ₹70,000.The remarks made by the ASJ Garg rejecting Kalra’s pre-arrest bail stand in contrast to the bail order passed on Wednesday by chief metropolitan magistrate Arun Kumar Garg while releasing on bail the other four co-accused.The CMM noted in his order that “not even a prima facie case under IPC Section 420” was made out against the accused. The prosecution alleged Kalra to be the prime accused along with Matrix Cellular for cheating public at large by claiming that the products were of German technology and they provided 90% oxygen flow for use by two persons. However, the devices were Chinese products that could deliver an efficiency of 32%, the prosecution said.While the CMM held this to be a case of “breach of contract” and not cheating, ASJ Garg found substance in the same and said, “The allegations levelled against the applicant/accused are serious i.e. he made fraudulent representation to the effect that he was selling premium portable oxygen concentrators, manufactured with German collaboration, which were sufficient to meet requirement of two persons.”Even with regard to the charges under the Essential Commodities Act, Kalra was accused of selling the oxygen concentrators at “exorbitant” prices without informing the authorities about the MRPs pasted over the boxes containing the oxygen concentrators.On the other hand, the CMM order of Wednesday punched holes into the police probe. Referring to the provisions contained in the FIR - Section 3 and 7 of the Essential Commodities (EC) Act, the CMM said that the said provisions were “invoked in the FIR without the investigating officer (IO) being sure about existence of any such notification (capping price of oxygen concentrators).”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kalra-denied-pre-arrest-bail-moves-high-court-101620931912460.html
14-05-2021||India||Delhi short of Covid-19 jab stocks for ages 45+, says state govt||Coronavirus vaccine doses for those older than the age of 44, supplied by the Union government, are running low and could run out over the next 2-3 days, Delhi government officials said on Thursday, a day after they raised concerns of limited supply for the under-45 age group.Delhi has 290,690 doses of vaccines left for the 45 and above age group —146,690 of Covaxin, which will likely last three days, and 144,000 of Covishield, which will likely last two days.“Until recently, we had a shortage of vaccines for those aged between 18-44. But now, we are also facing a shortage for the 45+ category. I request the central government to urgently provide us with adequate doses, because now there’s scarcity of stocks for both age groups,” said Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) legislator Atishi during the government’s live-streamed vaccine bulletin on Thursday evening.She said replenishing vaccine stocks for the 45+ category is crucial because many of them have their second dose scheduled in the next few days. “In Delhi, we have a number of people in the priority age group (45 and above) who have already taken their first dose. It is important that the Centre immediately sends us doses because if these beneficiaries are not given their second dose in time, then the first dose given to them will be wasted,” said Atishi.Neither Serum Institute of India (SII), which manufactures Covishield, nor Bharat Biotech, which makes Covaxin, responded to requests for comment.The Centre on Thursday recommended doubling the gap between Covishield doses from 6-8 weeks to 12-16. The suggested interval for Covaxin remains 4-6 weeks.The Union government, in an affidavit to the Supreme Court on Sunday, said it will deliver 496,930 doses to Delhi in the first fortnight of May as part of its campaign for the 45-and-above age group.For the younger age group, only Covishield doses are available in the Capital, government data showed, and these stocks are likely to last for eight days. For the second straight day, Delhi on Thursday continued its immunisation programme with no stocks of Covaxin.Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said there has been no communication from the two manufacturers on when more stocks will arrive.“Around 100 vaccination sites that were giving Covaxin jabs to the 18-44 population are now temporarily shut. Yesterday [on Wednesday], we announced that Bharat Biotech has expressed its inability to give us additional doses of Covaxin. After that, we are still to find out when fresh doses will come. We will inform people as soon as we get the doses, whether from the Centre or the manufacturers,” said Jain.Union health ministry spokespersons did not respond to requests for comment.According to data, Delhi has so far received around 817,690 vaccine doses – 150,000 Covaxin and 667,690 Covishield – for the 18-44 age group. Of these, as on Thursday evening, 390,410 doses were in stock —380,020 of Covishield and 10,390 of Covaxin.VACCINATION CENTRES FOR 45+ ALSO TO BE SHIFTED TO SCHOOLSWith nearly 100 vaccination centres being removed from the Co-WIN portal due to shortage of Covaxin, the pressure appears to have spilled over to the other centres. Taking cognisance of complaints of crowding, Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday reviewed the administration’s vaccination management system and directed walk-in vaccinations be restarted for those aged 45 and above.“I have directed officials to ensure walk-in vaccinations for those aged above 45, as there’s a large section that finds online registrations difficult. Also, many were finding it difficult to book slots, so this step will help,” he said.Walk-in vaccination for the 45+ age group in Delhi was halted for 3-4 weeks, a senior government official said.Sisodia also said that vaccination centres for this bracket will also be shifted to Delhi government schools. On Wednesday, the state health department issued an order asking all district magistrates (DMs) to shift the vaccination drive for 45+category to schools and create an additional 186 vaccination centres, with about 10 vaccination sites at each.According to Thursday’s bulletin, Delhi vaccinated 74,654 people in the past 24 hours. Atishi said the number was lower than other days because on Wednesday government dispensaries and hospitals do not give Covid-19 vaccines as they immunise children with other routine vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-short-of-jab-stocks-for-ages-45-says-state-govt-101620931911844.html
14-05-2021||India||All-party meet in Tamil Nadu decides to intensify lockdown to curb Covid-19 spread||An all-party meeting led by chief minister M K Stalin on Thursday evening passed an unanimous resolution to intensify the on-going lockdown in Tamil Nadu on a day that the state reported 30,608 new cases taking the active caseload to 1,83,722. The number of deaths has also been rising with 297 patients succumbing to the virus on Thursday. Tamil Nadu went under full lockdown from May 10 which will go on until May 24 to bring down the rising cases in the second wave of Covid-19. Essentials like groceries are allowed until 12 noon and restaurants can function only for takeaways and delivery executives are permitted. All other activities have been stopped and marriages and funerals are allowed with only a specific number of people. The specifics of how it will be further intensified are yet to be released by the government. “Officials will meet tonight to decide on the aspects to intensify the lockdown and make an announcement,” health minister M Subramanian told reporters after the meeting. A total of five resolutions were adopted at the meeting. An advisory committee which would comprise of representatives of all legislature parties in the state to make recommendations on control measures, all parties would extend their cooperation for relief work; all political parties have agreed to stop organising public meetings and political events and to set an example by adhering to Covid-19 norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allparty-meet-in-tamil-nadu-decides-to-intensify-lockdown-to-curb-covid-19-spread-101620931492352.html
14-05-2021||India||6 firms attend UP meet on import of vaccines||Six vaccine manufacturers attended a pre-bid meeting convened by Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday to discuss procurement of 40 million Covid-19 jabs, a top state official said on Thursday, adding that the process of floating a global tender was likely to begin in 15 days.Navneet Sehgal, additional chief secretary (information) in the UP government, said the meeting was attended by Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, Zydus Cadila, Pfizer, Serum Institute of India (SII), Bharat Biotech, and an unnamed Korean company.Dr Reddy's is marketing the Sputnik V vaccine in India , Zydus Cadila is developing a Covid-19 vaccine, Pfizer has a popular nRNA vaccine currently used across the world, SII manufacturers Covishield -- the name under which which the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine is marketed in India -- that is the mainstay of the country’s inoculation programme, and Bharat Biotech makes Covaxin, the other vaccine used in India’s drive.India has so far administered 179 million doses of Covishield and Covaxin. It has granted approval to Sputnik V and has indicated that it will fast-track approval for the Pfizer shot. Imported doses of Sputnik will start being available in India next week, and local production is expected to start in July. Zydus Cadila’s vaccine candidate is under development.“We expect to float the global tender in about 15 days. We are also making contact with Moderna and Johnson & Johnson,” Sehgal said, alluding to the two other companies whose vaccines have been approved in different countries.HT reported on Wednesday that Tamil Nadu was the 11th state to opt for global tenders to get vaccines, even as officials in states said it wasn’t clear by when they would receive doses. While states have freedom to float global tenders for acquiring Covid-19 vaccines from any drug manufacturer, they cannot inoculate their citizens with vaccines that have not been approved by the Union government. Several states have asked the Union government to set up a central procurement of vaccine to have the weight of sovereign behind them in negotiating better terms with global vaccine produces.To be sure, the Centre has said that vaccines approved elsewhere will be approved in India under certain conditions.After the Centre on April 19 decided to launch the “liberalised and accelerated” third phase of the national immunisation programme to cover the 18-44 age group from May 1, several states such as Uttar Pradesh, Odisha, Delhi, Karnataka, Telangana, Bihar and Maharashtra initiated the procurement process of vaccines. The April 19 decision allowed vaccine manufacturers in India to supply 50% of monthly output to states (allocated on the basis of the size of the eligible population in the state) and private hospitals after keeping 50% of doses for the Centre.In its tender norms, the UP government is likely to specify that the temperature for the storage of the vaccine should be 2-8 degrees Celsius, said additional chief secretary (health and family welfare) Amit Mohan Prasad.“The bidders have been told that the state government requires six million to eight million doses of vaccine to be supplied every month. The supply has to be initiated within seven days of the release of the purchase order and completed within 30 days. The bidder should have their own coldchain transporting system or should have proper contract with a transporting agent having the facilities to transport the vaccines under cold chain norms from the manufacturing unit to the government warehouses in Varanasi, Meerut, Lucknow, Agra, Gorakhpur, Kanpur, Jhansi, Bareilly and Faizabad (Ayodhya),” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-firms-attend-up-meet-on-import-of-vaccines-101620931251794.html
14-05-2021||India||Now, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh halt inoculation for 18+ citing vaccine shortage||Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh on Thursday announced that they were suspending vaccinatons of people in the 18-44 age group, due to non-availability of Covid-19 vaccines, following the example of Karnataka and Maharashtra.With Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech, the two Indian companies providing vaccines to the government, not able to meet the growing demand for vaccines, as many as 12 states have decided to float global tenders to buy vaccines.“We are suspending vaccination till we get vaccines from Serum Institute,” said a Rajasthan government official, adding that the state expects to resume vaccination from Saturday if the vaccines arrive.The state has around 200,000 vaccines meant for those over 45 years of age. The official added that these would likely be used up on Thursday and that the state would wait for more vaccines from the Centre. Rajasthan has so far vaccinated 14.6 million people (3.3 million have received both shots and 11.6 million one shot). This includes 5,63,122 people in the 18-44 years age group who have received one dose of the vaccine.The state has ordered 30.75 million vaccines from the Serum Institute of India, of which 650,000 have been delivered. The state has also ordered around 300,000 vaccines of Covaxin from Bharat Botech. Rajasthan has decided to float a global tender to procure 10 million vaccines.The Union government provides states with free vaccines for those over the age of 45 and frontline workers. States have to make their own arrangements for vaccines for the 18-45 years age group, though the Centre works with vaccine manufacturers to decide how many vaccines each state is eligible for.A Chhattisgarh government official said vaccination in the 18-44 age group for Above Poverty Line (APL) people was stopped in Raipur due to unavailability of vaccines. “Vaccination is going on for other categories such as poor and frontline workers across the state,” said state immunisation officer, Dr Amar Singh Thakur. Health minister TS Singhdeo expressed confidence of getting vaccines soon to continue vaccination drive. West Bengal which started vaccination for the 18 - 44 segment on Tuesday in select districts may have to suspend the inoculation if vaccines don’t arrive in the next two days, officials said.Some states such as Goa, Himachal and Bihar are yet to start vaccination drive for 18-44 age group. Himachal Pradesh plans to start vaccinating people in this segment from May 17 with chief minister Jai Ram Thakur saying that the state has received first consignment of 1.07 lakh doses from the Serum Institute of India (SII) on Wednesday. Tripura on Thursday started vaccinations for people in the 18-44 age group.Both Telangana and Andhra Pradesh have not started vaccnating people in this segment -- something that was supposed to begin from May 1. While Andhra Pradesh has stopped administering first doses to people over the age of 45 -- it wants to prioritise second doses -- Telangana has been giving both first and second doses to those above the age of 45 years. Both the governments have clarified that they will start vaccinations for the 18-44 years age group only after the completion of second dose of vaccination for those over the age of 45 years.Madhya Pradesh immunization officer Santosh Shukla said, “Madhya Pradesh has about 3 lakh vaccines for the 18-44 years age group and within three days, we will receive 9 lakhs more. We started the vaccination of 18 + four days late because we wanted to have enough stock .”The Uttar Pradesh government, which has opened vaccinations for the 18-44 age group in 18 of the state’s 75 districts, said it would start vaccinations in more districts once tit receives five lakh vaccine doses by Friday. “We have enough vaccine doses to run the drive,” said state Health and Family Welfare minister, Jai Pratap Singh.Punjab, which is left with only 60,000 jabs for the 18-44 age group, is not contemplating a suspension of the drive, said Health Minister Balbir Sidhu. The state has ordered 3 million doses of Covieshield from Serum Institute of India (SII) and is expecting 2.5 lakh doses between May 15 and 25. Odisha and Assam do not plan to suspend vaccination for the 18-44 age group, as both states have enough stocks.The Maharashtra government on Wednesday decided to temporarily suspend the vaccination drive for the 18-44 years category and divert the vaccines that it purchased for that age group to provide second doses for those above 45, state health minister Rajesh Tope said.(With inputs from state bureaus)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/now-raj-and-chhattisgarh-halt-inoculation-for-18-citing-vaccine-shortage-101620931191761.html
14-05-2021||India||Over 2 billion vaccines to be available by Dec: Centre||India will likely have access to at least two billion doses of coronavirus vaccines, a top government official said on Thursday, listing out several vaccines in development and projected enhancements in manufacturing capacity by the end of 2021.The data presented by Niti Aayog member VK Paul, however, included eight vaccines of which only three have been approved in the country, and cited production enhancements that are beyond current estimates. Experts also said that for these doses to be available, the government will need to place purchase orders.“The emerging scene in terms of vaccine supplies shows that we are largely dependent on two vaccines, even though Sputnik V vaccine has also been added to the basket. According to the production plan that we asked some of the companies to draw for us for a period between August and December this year, we get a provisional figure of 216 crore doses,” said Paul, while speaking at the government’s weekly briefing on Covid-19.Paul presented a table showing production for August-December period, with the companies ostensibly giving out their figures as: Covishield (Serum Institute) – 750 million; Covaxin (Bharat Biotech) – 550 million; Biological E’s subunit vaccine – 300 million; Zydus Cadila’s DNA vaccine – 50 million; Serum Institute’s Covavax – 200 million; Bharat Biotech’s nasal vaccine – 100 millionl Gennova’s mRNA vaccine – 60 million and Sputnik V’s 15 million.Among these, only Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik V have been approved and Covavax’s international brand – developed by Novavax – has reached the efficacy analysis stage in phase III trials.The projected production appeared to be significantly higher than what some of the companies have announced till now – for instance, the figures released by Paul suggests an average production of 150 million doses a month of Covishield, while the company has said it will take up production capacity to 100 million a month by July.SII and Bharat Biotech did not respond to requests for a comment by HT.Experts said it was too early to say these many doses will be available unless procurement orders were made.“While we should have a reasonable expectation that the ongoing trials would be successful, we should not pre-judge them till they are completed and data are available for scrutiny both by the regulatory agency and the wider scientific community. Hope does not automatically translate to proof at this stage,” said Dr K Srinath Reddy, president, Public Health Foundation of India.Dr Giridhara R Babu, head, epidemiology, Indian Institute of Public Health also said, “This is fantastic news if the orders are already placed for two billion doses. It is safe to count only those vaccines which are approved for use by regulatory authorities after phase 3 is successfully completed.”According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), Zydus Cadila’s, ZyCov-D, is currently undergoing phase III human trials, Biological E’s vaccine is undergoing phase I/II human clinical trials, Bharat Biotech’s nasal vaccine is undergoing phase I human trials, SII’s Covovax is at phase II/III human trials stages, and Gennova’s mRNA based vaccine is also undergoing phase I/II human trials.Paul urged people to remain optimistic. “You may say optimistic; yes, it is optimistic. Is there a risk? There may be; it’s quite possible because the trials are still underway but we have to remain prepared. These are all promising vaccines. It is all responsible data coming straight from the companies,” said Paul.According to government data, so far, 356 million vaccine doses have been received by the Centre —66 million (56 million of Covishield and 10 million of Covaxin) under the PM Cares fund, 10 million under Gavi-Covax facility, 120 million purchased for phase II of the vaccination drive and 160 million under phase III. phase .In addition to these, private hospitals and state governments have purchased 160 million more, taking the total volume of doses sourced or in the pipeline till July to 516 million.Serum Institute’s CEO Adar Poonawalla said in recent media interviews that he was looking at ramping up capacity up to 100 million by July.The Department of Biotechnology in April announced that, with its help, Bharat Biotech was working towards ramping up production capacity by May-June, 2021 to over 100% of their current capacity of 10 million doses a month, with a target of reaching 100 million by September 2021.About 150,000 doses of Sputnik V have already been imported and more doses are expected in coming weeks.“India has a great opportunity to turn around the vaccine story if these companies are invited to manufacture by collaborating with Indian companies under make in India. We have a tremendous potential to meet the needs of the whole world, especially in providing affordable vaccine to poor countries,” said Dr Babu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-2bn-vaccines-to-be-available-by-dec-centre-101620931132370.html
14-05-2021||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||A report released on Wednesday on what went wrong with the world’s (and the World Health Organization’s) response to the coronavirus disease doesn’t have any surprising revelations. The report, prepared by the Independent Panel for Pandemic Preparedness and Response (IPPPR) that was set up after various WHO members demanded it, lists some suggestions on preparing for the next pandemic, including the creation of a Global Health Threats Council (its members will be heads of state, and also from civil society and the private sector), and an International Pandemic Financing Facility which will be funded by rich countries to the tune of $5-10 billion a year, and which will help countries prepare for or manage pandemics, that, while not entirely new (again), do seem like good moves. The best time to prepare for the next pandemic is soon after seeing the current one off.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageThe report terms February 2020 the lost month – if WHO had acted then, or if countries had, the trajectory of the pandemic is likely to have been very different from one that has, over the 17 months since January 1, 2020, caused 161 million infections and 3.34 million deaths around the world. The actual numbers of the infected and the dead are likely to be much higher. On January 14, 2020, WHO claimed, on the basis of investigations carried out by Chinese health authorities, that there was “no clear human-to-human transmission”. A week later, it changed its position, and said there was possibility of “sustained” human-to-human transmission. It delayed declaring a public health emergency till January 31, and terming the outbreak a pandemic till March 11. It wasn’t until June that the multilateral health agency would issue a proper advisory on masks (which it did not recommend till then). And while it did accept the possibility that the virus could be airborne last year, it wasn’t until earlier this year that it changed its guidelines to include this. Most worryingly, though this period, WHO has made no headway in figuring out the origin of the virus which first appeared in Wuhan, China.The debate over whether the virus was made in a lab, or evolved in nature, is ongoing, and more research is needed before a definite answer can be provided. In early May, science writer Nicholas Wade summarised the research so far, laying out the cases for and against either scenario. Wade’s article, published in Medium, leans towards the lab argument, but it isn’t a conspiracy theory. Instead, he presents a cogent scientific argument built around three strands. One, provenance, or how, if the virus was naturally found in the famous horseshoe bats of Yunnan, it travelled all the way to Wuhan, at least 1,500km away; evolution, or how the Sars-CoV-2 virus, which causes the coronavirus disease, came fully evolved to optimally target humans, unlike the Sars-CoV virus, responsible for South Asia Respiratory Syndrome, that evolved over time to become efficient at targetting humans; and finally, the unique furin cleavage site that the virus possesses, not found in other betacoronaviruses, and activated by an enzyme, furin, commonly found in human cells.The furin cleavage site has figured in this column previously because it is truly unique. The spike protein of Sars-CoV2 has three parts – S1, S2, and a cleavage site at the boundary. Furin cleaves the two, and the S1 site then attaches to the ACE receptor (also found commonly on the surface of human cells), a binding that facilitates the entry of the viral protein into the human cell. You can read Wade’s piece (I’d recommend it) at nicholaswade.medium.comPS: There are reports that the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) could meet on Friday to discuss the use of convalescent plasma therapy, something it (rightly) recommended against last year. Yet, its use has continued, and it has been heartbreaking to see people scramble for something that isn’t going to help them. A high level of antibody (AB) titer is required for the therapy to be effective in the case of Covid-19, and this isn’t found in the case of most plasma. While at it, ICMR should also issue strict guidelines on the right context for the use of remdesivir, and steroids.PPS: The National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC), on Thursday, accepted a recommendation that the gap between two doses of Covishield be increased to 12-16 weeks, from the current 6-8 weeks. This is a long-overdue move because there’s enough research to show that a gap of 12 weeks or more between doses has the most optimal impact on the vaccine’s efficacy, increasing it to 82.4% (protection against serious illness). The change will allow India to vaccinate more people. The first target is 375 million people who have received at least one dose of the vaccine. The sooner India reaches that number, the lower the chances of a strong third wave of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-what-you-need-to-know-today-101620930582759.html
14-05-2021||India||Work allocation under NREGS rises amid Covid-19 surge||The Centre allocated more work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) in April and May than in the corresponding period last year, signalling a greater job demand amid the surge in Covid-19 cases that has prompted lockdowns across the country, and pushed at least some migrant workers in the cities to return home, although the exodus is still a fraction of what was seen duuring the 68-day hard lockdown last year.The rural development ministry, which administers the world’s biggest job guarantee scheme, budgeted for 335.7 million person-days of work in April under MGNREGS. As India’s Covid cases rose, the budget for May jumped to 799.4 million person-days of work, a rise of around 140%.MGNREGS, which guarantees at least 100 days of manual work annually for at least one member of every rural household, generated 325.2 million person-days of work in April. As many as 335.9 million person-days of work have already been generated in the current month, showing a steep rise in job demand.Demand for work under the scheme surged following the lockdown that was imposed to check the pandemic last year. The curbs in 2020 triggered an exodus of workers from the cities to their homes in the hinterland. It is believed that the job guarantee scheme and the performance of the agricultural sector (which bucked the trend) helped insulate the rural economy to some extent from the fallout of the pandemic.In the middle of the lockdown last year in April, 175.7 million person-days of work was budgeted under the scheme. The budget saw a steep increase to 676.3 million person-days the following month. For the first time in MGNREGS’s history, more work was done in every month of FY20-21, barring April, than the budgeted quantum as workers left jobless by the lockdown returned to their homes last year. The year saw the highest ever spending under the scheme-- ₹1.11 lakh crores.Most Indian states and Union territories have imposed lockdowns, prompting workers to return home, where they are likely to fall back upon MGNREGS.This year’s Union budget, presented at a time when the country was seeing fewer than 10,000 cases of Covid-19 a day allocated ₹73,000 crore to MGNREGS. More demand for work under the scheme, widely seen as the last resort of employment in a calamity, will likely entail more allocations through additional funds or diversion of money from other schemes of the rural development ministry, a government official said.The spread of the disease in rural areas -- not seen for several months during the first wave of the pandemic last year -- has added to the concerns of MGNREGS managers. A second official of the ministry said that apart from beneficiaries, many grassroots-level officials, who play a critical role in maintaining records and ensuring smooth payments, may be affected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-cases-rise-govt-allocates-for-more-work-under-mgnregs-101620879049138.html
14-05-2021||NA||Highlights: Tamil Nadu records 30,621 new Covid-19 cases, 297 more deaths||India on Thursday recorded 362,727 fresh Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, according to Union health ministry dashboard. As many as 4,129 new deaths were also registered. The country has so far reported a total of 23.70 million cases and 258,317 deaths. India is presently dealing with a second Covid-19 wave that has swept through the nation.The global Covid-19 disease caseload has climbed to 161,063,316 of which 3,344,433 people have died and 138,855,889 have recovered, according to worldometers.info. The United States continues to remain the worst-hit country from the pandemic with 33,585,061 cases and 597,760 deaths respectively.Meanwhile, the European Union's executive has called on countries of the bloc to temporarily halt non-essential travel from India, to limit the spread of a Covid-19 variant. "It is important to limit to the strict minimum the categories of travellers that can travel from India for essential reasons and to subject those who may still travel from India to strict testing and quarantine arrangements," the European Union added.Follow all the updates here:Tamil Nadu records 30,621 new Covid-19 cases, 297 more deathsTamil Nadu reports 30,621 new #COVID19 cases, 19,287 recoveries and 297 deaths in the last 24 hours.Total cases 14,99,485Total recoveries 12,98,945Death toll 16,768Active cases 1,83,772 pic.twitter.com/4r2K8JE7guTamil Nadu's caseload of the Covid-19 disease climbed to 1,499,485 after 30,621 new cases, 19,287 recoveries and 297 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours, according to the state health department's bulletin‘We were prepared for 3rd phase of Covid-19 vaccination, but..’: Chhattisgarh CMChhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel said on Thursday that the state was prepared for the third phase of the vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) from May 1 after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement, but the vaccine doses are still unavailable. Read moreWest Bengal sees record single day jump in Covid cases at 20,839West Bengal on Thursday recorded the highest single-day spike of 20,839 new Covid-19 cases, taking the caseload to 1,073,956, according to the health department's bulletin. As many as 129 people succumbed to the disease, taking the state's toll to 12,857.IAF airlifts 2 cryogenic oxygen tankers from SingaporeToday, an IAF IL-76 airlifted 2 cryogenic oxygen containers from Singapore and landed at Panagarh (West Bengal) in the evening. pic.twitter.com/qFLelhmZ43The Indian Air Force airlifted 2 oxygen cryogenic tankers from Singapore on Thursday and landed at the Panagarh base in the evening, reported ANI.Meghalaya extends lockdown in East Khasi hill district till May 24Meghalaya CM Conrad Sangma announced an extension of the ongoing lockdown in East Khasi Hills district till May 24, reported PTIMaharashtra records 42,582 new Covid-19 cases, 850 deathsMaharashtra recorded 42,582 new cases of Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the state-wide tally to 52,69,292. 850 deaths were also recorded in the last 24 hours, the death toll now stands at 78,857.Karnataka reports 35,297 new Covid-19 cases, 344 fatalitiesKarnataka on Thursday reported 35,297 cases of Covid-19, taking the state-wide tally of cases to 5,93,078. 344 deaths pushed the death toll to 20,712, ANI reported.Uttarakhand records 7,127 new cases of Covid-19, 122 deathsUttarakhand reports 7127 new #COVID19 cases, 5748 recoveries and 122 deaths in the last 24 hours.Total cases 2,71,810Total recoveries 1,84,207Death toll 4245Active cases 78,304 pic.twitter.com/sK46grebpBKerala reports 39,955 new Covid-19 cases, 97 deathsKerala reports 39,955 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, taking the toll of active cases in the state to 4,38,913. 97 deaths were also reported in the last 24 hours, reported ANI.Bharat Biotech welcomes move to share technology with other manufacturers, says Dr VK PaulDr VK Paul, Member of NITI Ayog (Health) said Bharat Biotech has welcomed the decision to share the technology behind producing Covaxin with other vaccine manufacturers.Sputnik to be available in market by early next week, says health ministrySputnik vaccine will be available in market by early next week said the health ministry on Thursday. Production for the same is scheduled to start in July, the ministry added.Election Commission defers Legislative Council polls in Andhra Pradesh, Telangana due to Covid-19Election Commission on Thursday decided to defer the biennial election to Legislative Councils of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana due to the on-going second wave of Covid-19, reported ANI.Delhi reports 10,489 new Covid-19 cases, 308 deathsDelhi reported 10,489 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, pushing the tally of cases in the nation capital to 13,72,475. 308 deaths were also reported in the last 24 hours, the death toll now stands at 20,618.Rajinikanth gets inoculated with second dose of Covid-19 vaccineTamil Nadu: Actor Rajinikanth took his second dose of #COVID19 vaccination today in Chennai. pic.twitter.com/w0Rfs8swxNActor Rajnikanth got inoculated with the second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine at Chennai on Thursday, reported ANI.Covid-19 lockdown in Bihar extended for 10 days till May 25The on-going lockdown in the state of Bihar has been extended till May 25, tweeted chief minister Nitish Kumar on Thursday. Kumar said the decision was taken because of the effectiveness of the on-going lockdown in bringing down the Covid-19 tally of the state. About 75,000 vaccines of Covaxin available in Karnataka at present: Sadananda GowdaThere are about 75,000 vaccines of Covaxin available in Karnataka at present. Of course, in certain centers, there is a little bit of scarcity. Practically, allotments will be made by central govt on basis of production of 2 manufacturing units: DV Sadananda Gowda, Union Minister.Ten states account for over 72% of new Covid-19 casesDelhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh are among 10 states that account for 72.42 per cent of the 3,62,727 new cases in the country in a span of 24 hours, the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday.MK Stalin writes to PM Modi urging to bring all Covid cure under zero GSTTamil Nadu CM MK Stalin writes to PM Narendra Modi urging to bring all Covid cure under zero GST.UPSC postpones civil services (preliminary) examination to October 10, 2021 in view of Covid-19Due to the prevailing conditions caused by the Novel coronavirus (Covid-19), the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) has deferred the Civil Services (Preliminary) Examination, 2021, which was scheduled to be held on June 27, 2021. Now, this Examination will be held on October 10, 2021.Russia reports 8,380 new coronavirus cases, 392 deathsRussia reported 8,380 new coronavirus cases in the space of 24 hours on Thursday, taking the national tally to 4,913,439.Odisha dispatches 633 tankers of medical oxygen to 12 states in last 21 daysA total of 633 tankers carrying 11656.454 metric tonnes (MT) medical oxygen have been dispatched under the supervision of Odisha Police so far from Rourkela, Jajpur, Dhenkanal, and Angul districts of Odisha to 12 deficit states in the country.25 cases of mucormycosis reported in civil hospitals in SuratMucormycosis, a fungal infection, is post Covid complication. 25 cases reported in civil hospitals and 20 in other hospitals here. All had contracted Covid-19 before. 50% patients are from outside Surat: Ashish Naik, Surat Municipal Corporation Deputy Health Commissioner.Japan vaccine chief blames drug approval system for slow inoculation driveJapan's Covid-19 vaccine chief has blamed a rigid drug approval system for a slow inoculation campaign that is relying on only one approved shot, as a fourth wave of infections raises worries amid preparations for the Summer Olympics.Meeting of the ICMR Covid-19 National Task Force will be held tomorrowA meeting of the ICMR Covid-19 National Task Force will be held tomorrow. A decision on the inappropriate use of convalescent plasma in the treatment of Covid-19 patients also on the agenda: ICMR sources, reports news agency ANI.Vaccination for people 18- 44 years of age halted at some Bengaluru centersVaccination for people 18- 44 years of age halted at some Bengaluru centers due to the shortage of vaccines."A better planning should have been done to cover this kind of population," says a local.Delhi records 10,400 fresh Covid-19 cases: Manish SisodiaDelhi records 10,400 fresh Covid-19 cases, positivity rate 14%: Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia.Sharp reduction in number of Covid-19 cases: Manish SisodiaSharp reduction in number of cases, more beds available in hospitals now, oxygen situation has improved: Delhi Dy CM Manish Sisodia.Delhi's oxygen need is 582 MT per day: Manish SisodiaToday, after assessment of the Covid-19 situation, Delhi's oxygen need is 582 MT per day. As a responsible government, we will give the surplus oxygen to the states who need it: Delhi Deputy CM Manish Sisodia.Arunachal Pradesh reports highest single-day spike of 279 Covid-19 casesArunachal Pradesh reported the highest single-day spike of 279 Covid-19 cases, pushing the tally to 20,854, a senior health official said here on Thursday.2nd batch of Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccines to arrive in India tomorrowThe second batch of Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccines to arrive in India tomorrow.Taiwan reports 13 new domestic Covid-19 casesTaiwan reported 13 new domestic Covid-19 infections on Thursday, amid a rise in cases that has unnerved the government and stock market.Maharashtra government extends lockdown till 7am of June 1Maharashtra government extended lockdown till 7 am of June 1. Earlier, the lockdown under Break The Chain initiative was till May 15.The state has added restrictions. Any person coming into Maharashtra by any mode will have to carry a negative RT-PCR report.States fighting with one another for vaccines portrays bad image of country: Arvind KejriwalDelhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said the fact that the states are left to competing and fighting with one another in the international market for Covid vaccines portrays a "bad" image of India.Govt panel recommends those testing positive for Covid-19 should defer vaccination for six months after recoveryGovernment panel has recommended those testing positive for Covid-19 should defer vaccination for six months after recovery: Sources, reports news agency PTI.Haryana to float global tenders to procure Covid-19 vaccinesGlobal tenders would be floated by the Haryana government for procurement of Covid-19 vaccines to ensure that all those above 18 in the state are inoculated, Health Minister Anil Vij said on Thursday.Drugs Controller General of India approves Phase 2/3 clinical trial of Covaxin in the age group of 2 to 18 yearsDrugs Controller General of India (DCGI) approves Phase II/III clinical trial of COVAXIN in the age group of 2 to 18 years. Bharat Biotech to conduct trials in 525 healthy volunteers.Odisha reports 10,649 new Covid-19 cases, 19 deaths in last 24 hoursAs many as 10,649 new Covid-19 cases were reported in Odisha in the last 24 hours, according to the health bulletin issued by the state health department on Thursday.144 new Covid-19 cases push Mizoram s tally to 8,176Mizoram on Thursday reported 144 new Covid-19 cases, pushing the state's tally to 8,176, an official statement said.UP extends partial 'corona curfew' till May 17Uttar Pradesh government has extended the partial 'corona curfew' till May 17.The state reported 18,125 new cases including 916 cases in Lucknow, yesterday.India's Covid-19 tally crosses 23.7 million with 362,727 fresh cases and 4,129 deathsIndia on Thursday recorded 362,727 fresh Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, according to Union health ministry dashboard. As many as 4,129 new deaths were also registered. The country has so far reported a total of 23.70 million cases and 258,317 deaths.Covid-19: Haryana roadways convert five mini-buses into ambulances in KarnalAs many as five Haryana roadways mini-buses at Karnal depot have been converted into Covid-19 ambulances on Wednesday and other districts are following the same with an aim to covert a total of 110 minibusses in the state.Covid-19 induced lockdown imposed in Jammu and Kashmir extended till May 17Covid-19 induced lockdown imposed in Jammu and Kashmir has been extended till May 17.4,509 new cases were reported in Jammu and Kashmir yesterday18,64,594 samples tested yesterday: ICMRTotal number of samples tested up to May 12 is 30,94,48,585 including 18,64,594 samples tested yesterday: ICMR.Officials add Vegas to areas with Covid-19 variant first identified in IndiaThe Las Vegas area has been added to places in Nevada where authorities have detected cases of a potentially worrisome strain of the coronavirus first detected in India.Doctors in Bihar's Muzaffarpur report black fungus in post-Covid caseA 52-year-old woman from Muzaffarpur has been diagnosed with fungus post-Covid-19 in Bihar on Wednesday.Religious, political events among factors behind Covid spike in India: WHOThe World Health Organisation has said a recent risk assessment of the situation in India found that “resurgence and acceleration” of Covid-19 transmission in the country had several potential contributing factors, including "several religious and political mass gathering events which increased social mixing".WHO urged to reform after panel finds failures worsened pandemicThe World Health Organization should be overhauled and given more authority to investigate global disease threats, according to a review of the international Covid-19 response that found a myriad of failures, gaps, and delays allowed the coronavirus to mushroom into a pandemic.Rajasthan to float global tender to buy 1 crore Covid vaccine dosesThe Rajasthan state cabinet on Wednesday gave the nod to float a global tender to purchase 1 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines.Indian-American Congressman meets Kamala Harris over Covid-19 crisis in IndiaCongressman Ami Bera, the longest-serving Indian-American in the Congress, met Vice President Kamala Harris at the White House here to discuss the Covid-19 crisis in India.Serum Institute CEO promised to deliver 1.5 cr Covishield doses to Maharashtra after May 20, says Rajesh TopeSerum Institute of India CEO Adar Poonawalla has promised Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to deliver 1.5 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccine Covishield to Maharashtra after May 20, said the state health minister on Wednesday.Covid-19: 1st Oxygen Express for Tamil Nadu departs from West BengalThe first Oxygen Express for Tamil Nadu from Indian Railways carrying 80 metric tonnes (MT) of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) on Wednesday left from Durgapur railway station in West Bengal.American India Foundation raises USD25 million for Covid-19 assistance to IndiaAn Indian-American non-profit body has raised USD25 million for Covid-19 assistance to India as the country battles a severe outbreak of the viral disease, its functionaries said.Himachal to provide free Covid treatment in pvt hospitals under Himcare, Ayushman Bharat schemesHimachal Pradesh Government will provide free treatment to Covid patients under Himcare and Ayushman Bharat schemes in registered private hospitals, said officials on Wednesday.Taiwanese cities tighten restrictions after Covid-19 cases riseTaiwanese cities are tightening restrictions on access to public venues like gyms and libraries after a rare rise in domestic Covid-19 infections that has spooked the stock market and unnerved the island.China reports 9 new Covid-19 cases vs 16 a day earlierChina reported nine new Covid-19 cases on the mainland on May 12, down from 16 cases a day earlier, the country's national health authority said on Thursday.Consignment of Covid-19 aid from Germany , Greece and Finaland reaches IndiaA flight from Germany carrying medical aid provided by Germany, Greece and Finland landed at the Delhi airport.Yankees up to seven Covid-19 positives among coaches, staffersNew York Yankees pitching coach Matt Blake is one of the latest affected as the team's number of Covid-19 positive tests increased to seven coaches and support staff members, according to manager Aaron Boone on Wednesday.Australia signs deal for 25 million Moderna Covid-19 dosesAustralia has reached a supply agreement for 25 million doses of Moderna Covid-19 vaccines, the US-based biotechnology company and the prime minister said Thursday.US-approved vaccines effective against B1617 variant of Covid-19: OfficialCovid-19 vaccines approved by the United States like Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson and Johnson have effectiveness against the B1617 variant of the virus that is predominant in India, which is experiencing one of the worst outbreaks of the pandemic, a top American health official said.Karnataka to temporarily suspend Covid vaccination for 18-44 yrs age group from todayKarnataka Government will temporarily suspend the Covid vaccination for the age group of 18 to 44 years from May 14, said officials.EU countries urged to halt non-essential travel from IndiaThe European Union’s executive called on countries of the bloc to temporarily halt non-essential travel from India, to limit the spread of a Covid-19 variant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-india-world-latest-news-covid-19-death-toll-may-13-2021-101620863182433.html
