15-05-2021||India||Bengal Guv Dhankhar gets emotional, wipes tears, after meeting victims of post-poll violence||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar became emotional and could be seen wiping his tears after meeting some of the alleged victims of post-poll violence at Nandigram in East Midnapore. The Governor’s visit to one of the most high-profile assembly constituencies where a pitched poll-battle was fought between chief minister Mamata Banerjee and her protégé-turned-adversary Suvendu Adhikari triggered a political slugfest between the TMC and the BJP. “Unimaginable post poll violence @MamataOfficial Terrified people with difficulty and fear @WBPolice and reprisals at hands of ruling party workers narrate indescribable woes of horror. Appeal CM to take urgent steps to restore their confidence in the worst post-poll violence,” he tweeted. Dhankhar alleged that the violence was being sponsored, organised and condoned by the state. The Governor visited some of the villages, sometimes on battery-driven rickshaw and sometimes on a motorcycle. He interacted with villagers. Some women could be seen wailing in front of him. Dhankhar could also be seen wiping his eyes more than once. “The state is passing through a very severe crisis of Covid-19 and unprecedented post-poll violence that is retributive and targeted. I have never heard of such violence. I would appeal to the chief minister. It is high time that she takes note of it. We are sitting on a volcano,” he said while adding that lakhs of people had to abandon their homes in West Bengal and take shelter outside the state. On Friday, Dhankhar had visited Assam’s Dhubri district and interacted with people who fled from their homes in Bengal following post-poll violence allegedly perpetrated by Trinamool Congress (TMC) workers. “The governor interacted with the affected people for nearly an hour and inquired about their condition. At present we have 176 people at Ranpagli (relief camp) and nearly 30 more at another camp in the district. While some have returned to Bengal, these people are afraid to go back as their houses had been allegedly burnt. We are providing them food and other basic necessities. They can stay in Assam as long as they desire. If they wish to go back we will facilitate their return,” Anand Mishra, superintendent of police of Dhubri had said on Friday. The ruling TMC however said that the Governor’s visit was motivated as he only visited the house of BJP workers. “He (Dhankhar) had demeaned the Governor’s chair by giving a call for change ahead of the assembly elections. The BJP lost because the people discarded them. Now he is moving around like an unsatisfied spirit and trying to disturb the peace,” said Kunal Ghosh, TMC spokesperson. The TMC supremo’s chief election agent at Nandigram Sk Sufiyan alleged that the helipad where the Governor’s chopper landed was built by the BJP during elections. The Governor went to Nandigram in a BSF chopper. While the BSF refused to comment, senior police officials said that the helipad was already there and was built during the elections. “At least 24 BJP workers and supporters have been killed so far in poll related violence. The BJP’s state headquarters have received more than 17,000 complaints from its workers and supporters of TMC’s torture and atrocities. BJP workers are not being able to return home as they are scared. Fresh violence was triggered in the villages where the team of ministry of home affairs visited to take stock of violence. The state should take care of homeless people,” said Samik Bhattacharya, BJP spokesperson in West Bengal.He also said that the Governor cried because he could not take the pain. “Anyone who sees such pain would cry,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-guv-dhankhar-gets-emotional-wipes-tears-after-meeting-victims-of-post-poll-violence-101621103345019.html
15-05-2021||India||5 dead, 11 rescued after slabs of building collapse in Maharashtra||Five persons including three women were killed after slabs of an illegal residential building in Ulhasnagar township in Thane district of Maharashtra collapsed on Saturday, officials said.Eleven others were rescued.The body of Sandhya Dodwal, 45, was recovered from the debris late at night, said Santosh Kadam, chief of the regional disaster management cell, Thane Municipal Corporation.The incident took place at ground-plus-four-storey "Manorama" building located in camp no 1 around 1.40 pm.A slab on the fourth floor came crashing down on other slabs which all landed on the ground floor, trapping people in the process, Kadam said.A team of NDRF personnel joined in the rescue operations.Local firemen rushed to the scene and rescued 11 residents who were taken to a local hospital.The deceased were identified as Monty Milind Parshe (12), Aishwaraya Harish Dodwal (23), Harish Dodwal (40), Savitri Parshe (60) and Sandhya Dodwal (45).Ulhasnagar Corporation PRO Yuvraj Badhane said the building was an illegal structure constructed in 1994. It had nine tenements and seven shops on the ground floor.Speaking to reporters at the scene, Kalyan MP Srikant Shinde said kin of the deceased will be paid a compensation of ₹5 lakh each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-dead-11-rescued-after-slabs-of-building-collapse-in-maharashtra-101621102337292.html
15-05-2021||India||Sex workers, jail-inmates among likely ‘super-spreaders’ to be vaccinated by Bengal govt||The West Bengal government has identified 10 target groups, including sex workers, jail inmates, hawkers and transport workers who could be Covid-19 ‘super-spreaders’ and will be vaccinated to check the spread of the virus in the state. The groups include Covid-19 volunteers, jail inmates, retail sellers in markets, hawkers, sex workers and transgenders, lawyers and court staff, journalists, transport workers, dealers of essential goods, and government employees including teachers who were not vaccinated during the assembly elections. “As vaccines are in short supply, the state executive committee of the disaster management authority in a meeting held on Saturday has decided to divide vaccination into two streams,” said a senior official of the state health department. One would be the general group (people at large) whose vaccination would be taken care of by the health department, while the other would be the target groups --- super-spreaders, exposed to public mingling and those facing the public. “Vaccination for the target groups, which comprise endangered as well as potential spreaders, would be handled by various departments of the state government. The departments will create a database of the target groups and also arrange sites for vaccination,” said a senior official. Till date the state has given around 1.26 crore doses of which 37.17 lakh are second doses of the vaccine. West Bengal has already vaccinated 7,583 transport workers, journalists and hawkers till date since vaccination for the age group of 18-44 years began in the state earlier this week. The daily count of Covid-19 cases has shot up exponentially in West Bengal since March this year. Experts have blamed it on the rampant violations of Covid-19 protocols at the countless election rallies held in the run-up to the assembly elections that ended on April 29. On May 15, the state registered 19,511 new cases up from 812 fresh cases reported on March 27, when the eight phase assembly polls kicked off. The state now has 131,948 active cases. At least 144 people died in the last 24 hours, according to official data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sex-workers-jail-inmates-among-likely-super-spreaders-to-be-vaccinated-by-bengal-govt-101621102385294.html
15-05-2021||India||150 ventilators under PM-Cares fund arrive at Delhi centre, all functioning||Around 150 GPS-enabled ventilators provided under the PM Cares Trust Fund have started functioning at Delhi's Sardar Patel Covid Centre. The Covid care centre, run by the Delhi government and the Indo-Tibetan Border Police, started its operation on April 26, as the Capital witnessed the peak of the second wave of the pandemic.The request for 150 ventilators on a loan basis for a period of six months for the critical patients at the Covid care centre was raised by ITBP DG, SS Deswal.Since the outbreak of the pandemic in April 2020, the Centre has been procuring medical devices including ventilators, which have been distributed among states and Union territories.Also Read: Govt says media reports on 'Make in India' ventilators in Aurangabad not working 'baseless, incorrect'Amid reports of ventilators procured by the Centre not working properly, the Centre has recently clarified that when the pandemic began last year, ventilators were available in a very limited number in government hospitals."Very limited manufacturing of ventilators was taking place in the country and most of the suppliers abroad were not in a position to make supplies of ventilators in large quantities to India. That is when the local manufacturers were encouraged to produce “Make in India" Ventilators to address the huge projected demand of the country and orders placed on them. Many of them were first time manufacturers of the ventilators," the Centre said in a statement.The Centre also clarified that detailed instructions and guidelines have been issued to all ventilator users regarding proper usage and maintenance of the ventilators.On May 9, the Union health ministry wrote to states and Union territories informing them about the helpline numbers of the manufacturers. State-wise WhatsApp groups have also been created with nodal officers of the states concerned, the representative of the hospitals and technical teams of the manufacturers so that they can coordinate if any technical issue is faced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/150-ventilators-under-pm-cares-fund-arrive-at-delhi-centre-all-functioning-101621098989768.html
15-05-2021||India||Aadhaar not mandatory for Covid-19 treatment and vaccine: Centre||No one shall be denied a vaccine, medicines, hospitalisation or treatment for want of an Aadhaar number, the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI), the statutory authority that issues 12-digit unique identification numbers called ‘Aadhaar’ to Indian residents, said on Saturday.“Aadhaar should not be misused as an excuse for denial of any essential service. There is a well-established exception handling mechanism (EHM) for Aadhaar and it should be followed to ensure delivery of benefits and services in the absence of Aadhaar. If a resident does not possess Aadhaar for some or the other reason, she/he must not be denied essential services as per the Aadhaar Act,” the authority said in a statement. UIDAI issued the statement after a section of media reported that vaccination and few other essential services such as hospitalisation were being denied to people for want of Aadhaar. An identification (ID) document is, however, required for getting the Covid-19 vaccine. According to the ‘Aarogya Setu’ app, people can register themselves for vaccination by using one of the seven IDs – Aadhaar number, driving licence, permanent account number (PAN), passport, pension passbook, NPR smart card and voter’s ID. In the pandemic situation, no one shall be denied any service or benefit for want of an Aadhaar number, the statement said. “If one does not have Aadhaar or if Aadhaar online verification is not successful due to some reason, the concerned agency or department has to provide the service as per Section 7 of Aadhaar Act, 2016 and the Cabinet Secretariat OM dated 19th Dec 2017,” it said.While Section 7 ensures that there is no exclusion and no denials of essential services, the Cabinet Secretariat in 2017 clarified that the use of alternate means of identification is allowed for extending benefits and essential services to such Indian residents who do not possess Aadhaar or whose Aadhaar authentication is not successful. UIDAI said Aadhaar is meant to bring transparency and accountability in public service deliveries through effective use of technology, but there are exceptions. It said in case of any such denial, the matter should be brought to the knowledge of the higher authorities of concerned department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aadhaar-not-mandatory-for-covid-19-treatment-and-vaccine-centre-101621099624651.html
15-05-2021||India||Covid patients on home care should ditch Remdesivir. AIIMS doctors explain||Covid-19 patients on home care should not take Remdesivir medication and they should get admitted at a hospital if the oxygen level drops below 94, AIIMS doctors advised on Saturday.The doctors were addressing a webinar on 'Medication and Care in Home Isolation' for Covid-19 patients."Remdesivir should never be taken at home. Positive attitude and regular exercise are a must for patients in home isolation, said Dr Neeraj Nishchal of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS).Dr Manish, also from AIIMS, said if the oxygen level goes below 94, patients should be admitted, adding that while checking oxygen level, age of the patient and other chronic diseases should be kept in mind.Dr Neeraj, however, said that 80 per cent of infected patients experience very mild symptoms and suggested a repeat RT-PCR rest if the first test report comes negative."If the RT-PCR test comes out to be negative, but symptoms are present, it is recommended to go for another test. Whether hospitalization is required is to be decided based on the intensity of the disease,” he said.The doctors also advised that medications must be taken in the proper quantity and at the right time."Knowing about the medicine is not enough. Patients should also know how and when they are to be taken, only then would it prove to be beneficial,” said Dr Neeraj.The decision of home isolation for patients above 60 years and with comorbidities like hypertension, diabetes, heart disease, chronic ailments related to kidneys and lungs, should be taken only after consulting doctors, they said.The commonly observed symptoms among Covid-19 patients are fever, dry cough, tiredness and loss of taste or smell. Irritation in throat, headache, body ache, diarrhoea, rash on skin and redness in eyes are also observed in rare cases.“If you observe any of these symptoms, you should immediately isolate yourself from others,” Dr Neeraj said.Suggesting measures Covid-19 patients need to take to manage the infection, the doctors said sanitisation, cleanliness, use of medical grade masks and taking medicines on time are essential.“We should plan for daily essentials and prepare a list of contact numbers for health-related information, health workers, hotlines, etc. Along with this, contact numbers of friends, other family members and neighbours should also be kept handy for emergency situations. Proper care and planning should be done also for the children in the family,” Dr Neeraj said.Doctors said that mild and asymptomatic patients should be kept in home isolation. Such patients should take utmost care to keep safe distance from other family members, especially children.It was advised that positive patients should always wear three-layered masks which should be discarded after proper sanitization every eight hours.“Patient and caregiver both should wear N-95 masks while interacting with each other,” the doctor said.The AIIMS doctors also advised that pulse oximeters should be used to monitor oxygen levels in the body, very carefully.“Artificial nails or nail polish should be removed before use and the patient's hand should be warmed if it is cold. Take rest for at least five minutes before testing. If the observation is constant for five seconds, the figure indicates oxygen level in your body,” doctors said.Informing about the use of Ivermectin and Paracetamol, Dr Manish said that their use depends on the immunity level and other patient-specific conditions so one should take medicines only as prescribed by the doctors.While informing about the medicines taken to fight COVID-19, he said, many patients insist on the use of Azithromycin, but the guidelines clearly discourage the use of these tablets.“Same instructions are given about Revidox. It is not recommended to use Revidox in home isolation,” said the doctor.During the discussion, both experts clearly said that no medication should be taken during home isolation without consulting doctors. PTI AG SMN SMN||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-patients-on-home-care-should-ditch-remdesivir-aiims-doctors-explain-101621089426673.html
15-05-2021||India||IAF set to complete 1,000 sorties in Covid-19 relief||The Indian Air Force, which is at the forefront of the country’s fight against the pandemic, is set to complete 1,000 sorties in Covid-19 relief, officials familiar with the development said on Saturday. It has so far carried out more than 900 international and global sorties to strengthen the country’s efforts for Covid-19 relief. “The IAF has flown 778 sorties domestic sorties amounting to 1,147 flying hours. Also, it has undertaken 130 sorties internationally amounting to 633 flying hours,” an IAF official said. The IAF has deployed a variety of aircraft for Covid-19 relief including C-17 Globemaster III, IL-76s, C-130J Super Hercules special operations aircraft, An-32 transport planes, Dornier aircraft and helicopters. The armed forces have been at the forefront of the fight against the deadly disease, and have helped meet the exploding demand for oxygen, set up dedicated Covid-19 hospitals and opened doors of military hospitals to civilians. IAF chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria has ordered “24x7 readiness” of the air force’s entire heavy-lift fleet and substantial numbers of the medium-lift fleet to operate in a hub and spoke model for Covid-related duties. The IAF has airlifted critical stores from several countries including Singapore, Thailand, the United Kingdom, Germany, Belgium, Australia, Indonesia and Israel. Domestic shuttles have covered Jamnagar, Bhopal, Chandigarh, Panagarh, Indore, Ranchi, Agra, Jodhpur, Begumpet, Bhubaneswar, Pune, Surat, Raipur, Udaipur, Mumbai, Lucknow, Nagpur, Gwalior, Vijayawada, Baroda, Dimapur and Hindan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-set-to-complete-1-000-sorties-in-covid-19-relief-101621097524545.html
15-05-2021||India||'Everyone will find their match': Harsh Vardhan on Biocon chief's vaccine-marriage humour||Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Saturday said Indians may soon be spoilt for choice when it comes to vaccines against Covid-19 as several vaccine manufacturers are on board to augment the supply and foreign candidates are also entering the scene. The minister's assertion comes as a reply to Biocon Chief Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw's tweet in which she compared India's vaccine situation with that of an arranged marriage, in a light-hearted jibe.The vaccine situation in India is like arranged marriage. First u r not ready, then u dont like any, then u dont get any!! Those who got are unhappy thinking may be the other one would have been better. Those who did not get any are willing to get any one😅Centre pins hopes on 5 Covid vaccines apart from Covishield, Covaxin, SputnikThe Biocon chief has been sceptical about India's vaccination drive. On Saturday, Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw said like in an arranged marriage, in India's vaccine situation too, first "you are not ready, then you don't like any, then you don't get any". Like in an arranged marriage, those who got are unhappy thinking maybe the other one would have been better and those who did not get any are willing to get anyone, she said.Rest assured Ms @kiranshaw Ji, there shall be no shortage for each to find their perfect match!With manufacturers onboard to augment supply, fast-tracked entry of foreign ones & new candidates holding potential entering the fray, one may be left cherry picking !@HardeepSPuri https://t.co/wIIgf4iKRMIn a light-hearted jibe, Shaw took on the current shortage of vaccines in the country, which forced many states to temporarily suspend the vaccination of people in the age group of 18 to 44 years.Union minister Harsh Vardhan was not the only one to reply to the Biocon chief in a similar vein. Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri too said, "Not all marriages begin with love at first sight".Continuing the light-hearted banter, Harsh Vardhan said that there in this vaccine-marriage market, everyone will find their perfect match as several manufacturers are coming on board to augment the supply, while the entry of foreign manufacturers is being fast-tracked and then there are some new potential candidates. One may be left cherry-picking, the minister said.Though the vaccination drive in India began with two vaccines — Covishield and Covaxin — initially the beneficiaries did not have a choice between the two. Frontline workers were administered free doses according to availability in the first two months. As the vaccination drive is proceeding to the next steps, beneficiaries can choose hospitals with either Covaxin and Covishield from Cowin.According to government's estimate, over 200 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines will be available in India before December 2021, which includes 75 crore doses of Covishield, 55 crore of Covaxin, 30 crore Bio E Sub unit vaccine, five crore Zydus Cadila DNA vaccine, 20 crore Serum Institute's Covavax, 10 crore Bharat Biotech's nasal vaccine, six crore Gennova mRNA vaccine and 15.6 crore Sputnik vaccine. Sputnik will be available in the market from next week, the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rest-assured-kiran-shaw-ji-harsh-vardhan-reply-to-biocon-chief-s-vaccine-marriage-jibe-101621093110679.html
15-05-2021||India||GST Council to meet after 7 months, tax waivers on healthcare likely||The Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council will meet for the first time in seven months on May 28, to discuss key issues such as compensation to states and tax waivers on various medicines, medical devices, and health services amid the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic, two officials said.The office of finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Saturday tweeted the date and timing of the meeting after several states, including Punjab and West Bengal raised the issue of inordinate delay in convening its meeting, the officials aware of the development said requesting anonymity.“Smt @nsitharaman will chair the 43rd GST Council meeting via video conferencing at 11 am in New Delhi on 28th May 2021. The meeting will be attended by MOS Shri @ianuragthakur besides Finance Ministers of States & UTs and senior officers from Union Government & States,” a tweet from the FM’s office said.The GST Council is required to meet once in every quarter. Its meetings are convened by the Union finance ministry as the council is chaired by the Union finance minister. Finance ministers of states and Union territories (UTs) are members of the council, the apex federal body on indirect tax matters. The last time the council had met on October 5, 2020 (the 42nd meeting) to resolve the issue of compensating states for their revenue shortfall in 2020-21. That meeting was extended to the next week on October 12 for finalising a centralised borrowing mechanism to meet the revenue shortfall. After that the council did not meet for months.Earlier this week, West Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra wrote to Sitharaman asking her to convene the GST Council meeting immediately as states were expecting an alarming shortfall in GST compensation revenue because of the Covid-19 pandemic. “As per GoI [Government of India] projection, the shortfall was expected to be to the tune of ₹1,56,164 crores in 2021-22 without taking into consideration the impact of Covid Wave-2,” Mitra said in the letter to FM. HT reported it on May 14.Last week, Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal asked the Union finance minister to urgently convene a meeting of the council for a “serious mid-term correction” on tax issues. In his letter Badal said, “...failure to hold any constructive consultation with states for so long in such critical times makes me wonder whether Centre has usurped all the powers of states putting the spirit of cooperative federalism...” HT reported it on May 6.Besides full compensation to states, many members want GST waiver on several critical items necessary for people at the time of the pandemic, including vaccines, key medicines and healthcare services. These matters could be discussed in the council, the officials mentioned above said. Ranjeet Mahtani, partner at consultancy firm Dhruva Advisors said the council needs to resolve other pressing issues such as inverted duty structure on certain products. “This has lingered as an issue for some time now,” he said. According to him, there is a need to rationalise GST rates and reduce number of tax slabs by merging the 12% and 18% slabs into one revenue-neutral rate. He said, compensation is also a key issue for states. At the time of introducing the new indirect tax regime in July 2017, the GST law assured states a 14% increase in their annual revenue for five years (up to 2022), and assured them that their revenue shortfall would be made good through the compensation cess levied on luxury goods and sin products such as liquor, cigarettes, aerated water, automobiles, coal and tobacco.The issue of compensating states for their revenue losses due to a 68-day lockdown and because of the first wave of Covid-19 came up in the previous fiscal year when GST revenues plunged and there was a gap of over ₹1.10 lakh crore in the collection of compensation cess. The matter was resolved after the Centre agreed to raise back-to-back loans on behalf of states and compensated them for their shortfall in revenue. It was decided that the loan would be repaid from the compensation cess revenue collected in future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gst-council-to-meet-after-7-months-tax-waivers-on-healthcare-likely-101621091284363.html
15-05-2021||India||Covid-19 challenge will test our good qualities: Mohan Bhagwat||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat on Saturday said both the government and the people misread the situation after the first wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, which resulted in complacency leading to the present situation. The country now needs to face the problems with a positive frame of mind and help in whatever capacity they can, he said. Urging people not to give up, he said just as Britain did not lose courage during World War II and withstood the adverse conditions to emerge victorious after defeating its enemy, India too should not lose hope, and view the pandemic as a challenge to be overcome. To underscore the need to fight the challenge with a positive frame of mind, he referred to an inscription on former British premier, Winston Churchill’s seat that read: “Please understand there is no depression in this house and we are not interested in the possibilities of defeat. They do not exist.” Delivering a lecture online, Bhagwat said, “Some people have died… they should not have died this way, untimely. But those who have passed away are in a way free and they don’t have to face it anymore… but we have to. We have to keep ourselves and our people safe and therefore we don’t need negativism. We are not going to allow ourselves to feel negative,” he said. The lecture is part of a ‘positivity unlimited’ series that the RSS has initiated with an aim to help people overcome difficulties during the second wave that has ravaged the country. There has been severe criticism of the government in failing to prepare for the second wave and for deficiencies in meeting the demand for health care. Both the RSS and its political arm, the Bharatiya Janata Party are pushing to shift the narrative towards “positivity and proactive approach”. “If we get tired and give up, then we will be like the rat who gives up in front of a snake. We cannot let this happen. There is as much hope as there is unhappiness. In such a situation many wrongdoings happen, but a lot of people are doing good deeds, they are helping people in whatever capacity they can,” he said. Amid criticism that the government dropped the ball on Covid-19 management, Bhagwat said now that scientists have cautioned about a third wave, arrangements should be made so that the country is well-prepared. “At the time of Samudra Manthan many things came up, but efforts were not stopped till the Amrit was found. We have to keep making efforts to win over this challenge,” he said. Urging people not to feel depressed or disillusioned he said, to hear about the situation being bad every day should not demoralise us. He said the focus should be on helping people find beds in hospital, oxygen and other needs. He also spoke about ensuing that students do not miss out on acquiring knowledge. “We have to worry about those who depend on daily wages; we should ensure that they do not go hungry. We should look around us and see what the problems are and help those in need,” he said, adding that the country will also need to start making arrangements to see how we can face the economic problems that will arise. “The challenge will test our good qualities...It is an exam of our patience. Success is not final, failure is not fatal. The courage to continue is the only thing that matters. We have to have the courage to continue,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-challenge-will-test-our-good-qualities-mohan-bhagwat-101621088164198.html
15-05-2021||India||Delhi likely to receive thunderstorm, rain, forecasts IMD||Some parts of Delhi are likely to receive thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain are likely on Saturday, according to the officials from India Meteorological Department. The change in weather will be witnessed in isolated places of northeast Delhi, IMD officials said.In a mild shift from the heat, the minimum temperature in Delhi was recorded at 23 degree celsius while the maximum temperature was recorded at a high og 39.3 degree celsius, IMD said. The sky is likely to remain partly cloudy on Sunday and the minimum and maximum temperature are likely to hover around 24 and 41 degrees Celsius, respectively.The weather department recorded 35 per cent relative humidity at 5.30 pm.Earlier this week on Thursday, Delhi woke up to light rain. As per IMD's forecast, thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain and wind speed occured over isolated places of Delhi and adjoining areas including Noida, Meerut Rohtak, Panipat and few other places.The IMD has also predicted a thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain with a wind speed of 20-40 kmph at many places over Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, in addition to the national capital."Thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain with wind speed 20-40 kmph would occur over many places of entire Delhi, Palwal, Hodal, Manesar, Gurugram, Faridabad, Tizara, (Haryana), Bulandshahar, Gulothi, Siyana, Jattari, Khurza, Atrauli, Aligarh, Sadabad, Khair, Noida, Gr. Noida, Ghaziabad, Pilkhua, Hapur, (Uttar Pradesh) and adjoining areas during next 2 hours," IMD tweeted.Earlier in the morning, IMD also predicted light to moderate intensity rains over Haryana, Rajasthan and its adjoining areas in the next two hours."Light to moderate intensity rain with wind speed 20-40 kmph would occur over Viratnagar, Kotputly, Alwar, Jhunjunu, Pilani, Rajghar, Laxmangarh, Bayana (Rajasthan), Narnaul, Tizara, Mahendergarh (Haryana) and adjoining areas during next 2 hours", tweeted IMD.India Meteorological Department (IMD) has been issuing operational forecasts for the date of monsoon onset over Kerala from 2005 onwards. An indigenously developed state-of-the-art statistical model with a model error of - 4 days is used for this purpose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-likely-to-receive-thunderstorm-rain-forecasts-imd-101621083862659.html
15-05-2021||India||Aadhaar not mandatory for any Covid-related service, clarifies UIDAI||Aadhaar card is not mandatory for any Covid-related service, the Unique Identification Authority of India clarified on Saturday amid misleading reports that claimes that the Aadhaar card is mandatory for vaccines and hospitalisation.“If one does not have Aadhaar or if Aadhaar online verification is not successful due to some reason, the concerned agency or department has to provide the service as per Section 7 of Aadhaar Act, 2016 and the Cabinet Secretariat OM dated 19th Dec 2017,” the UIDAI said issuing a statement.Aadhaar card is one of the photo-identity cards required for vaccine registration. But there are several other documents that can be used if one does not have an Aadhaar card. PAN card, driving licence, government's health insurance card, pension document are also considered valid for vaccine registration.Download Aadhaar card online in 10 easy steps. Here's a complete guideThe health ministry has also come up with an SOP on the vaccination of those who may not have any prescribed identity cards including the Aadhaar card.Issuing a statement, the UIDAI said Aadhar should not be misused as an excuse for the denial of any essential service. "There is a well-established exception handling mechanism (EHM) for Aadhaar and it should be followed to ensure delivery of benefits and services in the absence of Aadhaar. If a resident does not possess Aadhaar for some of the other reason, s/he must not be denied essential services as per Aadhaar Act," the statement said.The order is just a reiteration of UIDAI's existing regulations. In a circular dated October 24, 2017, the authorities said that benefits or services should not be denied for want of Aadhaar. In Section 7 of the Aadhaar Act, it is mentioned that until a person is assigned an Aadhaar number, he/she cannot be denied ration or pension or such other entitlements for want of Aadhaar and the concerned department should verify the identity of the person using alternate means of identification as per the relevant notification.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aadhaar-not-mandatory-for-any-covid-related-service-clarifies-uidai-101621085522470.html
15-05-2021||India||Government and public - both dropped guard after first Covid-19 wave: RSS||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat on Saturday said that both the government as well as the public dropped their guards after the first wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), leading to the current situation in India. The RSS Sarsanghchalak, however, urged citizens to stay united and work as a team, instead of pointing fingers at each other.RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat, while addressing a lecture series called 'Positivity Unlimited', said, "We are facing this situation because, whether it was the government, administration or public, everyone dropped their guard after the first wave despite indications from doctors.”Mohan Bhagwat highlighted the fact that a potential third wave of Covid-19 is on its way and said that people should not be scared. “We have to stay positive and take precautions to keep ourselves Covid negative in the present situation,” news agency PTI quoted him as saying.The RSS chief compared the present situation in India to that of England during World War II. Even when all hope was seemingly lost, Bhagwat said, a quote on the desk of the then British prime minister Winston Churchill read, "There is no pessimism in this office. We are not interested in the possibilities of defeat. They don't exist".Similarly, Mohan Bhagwat said, in this current situation of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic in the country, “We can’t give up on courage. We need to also have a steely resolve.”(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/government-and-public-both-dropped-guard-after-first-covid-19-wave-rss-101621084745187.html
15-05-2021||India||18 elephants in Assam may have been killed by a lightning strike: Experts||After a thorough examination of the carcasses of 18 elephants found dead in a forest in Assam's Nagaon district, and circumstantial evidence, a team of experts suggested that the jumbos could have been killed by a lightning strike, an official release said on Saturday.However, the samples collected by the team are being examined for micro-biological and toxicological aspects in the laboratory."This freak natural incident is also being corroborated by meteorological reports", the release said. A final report would be released only after all the examinations have been completed, it said.The incident happened on Wednesday night at a hill in the Kundoli proposed reserve forest in the Kathiatoli range.It was found that carcasses were lying in two groups. Fourteen adult elephants were found atop the hill, and another four bodies were found scattered on the foothills on Thursday. Detailed examination of the carcasses was carried out while viscera and other samples were collected for forensic investigations. Veterinary experts from the College of Veterinary Science here, Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Department, District Veterinary Officer, doctors from the Assam State Zoo, and other wildlife organisations were engaged in conducting post-mortem examinations and collection of samples.Chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma had expressed concern over the incident and asked Environment and Forest Minister Parimal Suklabaidya to visit the spot to inquire into the matter. Suklabaidya on Friday ordered an inquiry into the matter and a committee, headed by Deputy Conservator of Forest KK Deori, was instituted.The committee was directed to submit a preliminary report within three days and a detailed investigation report within 15 days. The minister, accompanied by senior officials of the department, a team of veterinarians, and wildlife experts, had visited the spot on Friday to take stock of the situation. After assessing the situation with top forest officials, Suklabaidya had also said that preliminary investigation revealed that the pachyderms have died probably due to lightning as there were no visible signs of struggle.The Forest Range Officer of Kathiatoli Range of Nagaon Forest division had received information on Thursday from the Assistant Manager of Topajuri Tea Estate about four elephant carcasses. A team of forest officials along with local villagers began a search of the Konduli Reserve forest and during the operation, four carcasses were found on the Bamuni foothill, while 14 elephants were found dead, around one kilometer away, the release added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/18-elephants-in-assam-may-have-been-killed-by-a-lightning-strike-experts-101621083371979.html
15-05-2021||India||Will explore if Covaxin can be made by private institutions too: Centre||As Bharat Biotech's Covaxin will now be manufactured by two public sector undertakings, the Centre on Saturday said that private firms can also come forward to give a leg up in India's vaccine production. Talks are on with others, Niti Aayog (health) member Dr VK Paul said adding that such decision of technology and knowledge transfer entails a long process.Bharat Biotech's Covaxin will now be produced by Hyderabad's Indian Immunologicals Limited, Uttar Pradesh's Bharat Immunologicals and Biologicals Corporation and Mumbai's Haffkine Institute for Training, Research and Testing. Once they start production, 13 crore doses of Covaxin will be produced in a month, according to the government's estimate. Out of these 13 crore doses, Bharat Biotech will produce 10 crore, while the three firms will produce one crore doses each.Misuse of steroids major cause behind mucormycosis infection: AIIMS chief"These tie-ups are not done over a week. That's not how complex technologies are transferred. There was an assessment of whether the vaccine can be made there. Following that there was training, fund allocation and then there was an agreement to formalise the entire arrangement," Dr Paul said.Covaxin can't be made anywhere, Dr Paul said explaining that the vaccine-making process deals with live virus. "This can be done only in very sophisticated, biological safety level 3 labs so that the virus can not affect the scientists. A garment factory can not start producing the vaccine from tomorrow," Dr Paul said.Any narrative that discourages the country's scientific institutions should not be indulged, Dr Paul said asserting that the Central government shares a partnership with all institutions engaged in vaccine making. "The two vaccine makers consider us as partners. They have honoured their contracts and made vaccines for the country."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-explore-if-covaxin-can-be-made-by-private-institutions-too-centre-101621083634192.html
15-05-2021||India||Increase Covid-19 testing, report infection figures accurately, says PM Modi||New Delhi: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday called for an increase in Covid-19 testing and asked states to report their infection figures accurately and transparently as he chaired a meeting on the pandemic situation in the country. He directed officials to come up with a distribution plan for ensuring oxygen and power supply to rural areas as the cases have surged in villages as well.“The Prime Minister instructed that testing needs to be scaled up further, with use of both RT-PCR [reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction] and Rapid Tests, especially in areas with high test positivity rates,” a statement issued after the meeting said.Officials briefed PM Modi at the meeting and told him the testing has gone up rapidly in the country, from around five million per week in early March to over 10 million now. They also informed him about the gradual decrease in test positivity and increase in recovery rate. The cases that had gone over 40,00,00 daily are now coming down, Modi was told.PM Modi also called for augmenting healthcare resources in rural areas to focus on door-to-door testing and surveillance. “He also spoke about empowering ASHA [Accredited Social Health Activist] & Anganwadi workers with all necessary tools. PM [Prime Minister] asked for guidelines to be made available in easy language along with illustrations for home isolation and treatment in rural areas,” the statement said.On Friday, PM Modi warned about the spread of Covid-19 in rural areas and urged the village panchayats to ensure proper awareness and sanitation.“India’s fight against Covid has been guided throughout by scientists and subject experts and will continue being guided by them,” he said. He called localised containment strategies the need of the hour, especially in states with high positivity rates.The statement said PM Modi took serious note of the news reports about unutilised ventilators in storage units and directed an immediate audit of their installation and operations. Modi instructed officials to conduct training for the proper use of medical devices such as ventilators and oxygen concentrators.Officials gave him a detailed presentation on the state and district level situation of oxygen availability, testing, healthcare infrastructure, and vaccination roadmap.In a tweet, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi separately kept up his attack on the government over its Covid-19 strategy and said its “disastrous vaccine strategy” will ensure a devastating third wave. “It can’t be repeated enough- India needs a proper vaccine strategy!”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/increase-covid-19-testing-report-infection-figures-accurately-says-pmmodi-101621080964055.html
15-05-2021||India||Misuse of steroids major cause behind mucormycosis infection: AIIMS chief||AIIMS director Dr. Randeep Guleria on Saturday warned that cases of mucormycosis infection, commonly known as the 'Black Fungus', are on the rise in the wake of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) among particularly susceptible patients. Misuse of steroids is a major cause behind this infection, he said, adding that patients who are diabetic or Covid-19 positive and are taking steroids have an increased chance of contracting the fungal infection.Also Read: Cases of post-Covid mucormycosis are increasing, says AIIMS chiefTo prevent the mucormycosis infection, misuse of steroids must be stopped, said the director of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in New Delhi. Dr. Guleria added that such secondary infections, which include fungal and bacterial, are causing more mortality in recent days, even as Covid-19 cases keep on increasing. It is thus all the more important to properly follow protocols of infection control practices at hospitals, he said.Where are mucormycosis spores found?Mucormycosis spores are found in soil, air, and even in food, said the AIIMS chief.In a new advisory over black fungus infection, the central government asked people to be extra careful regarding infection protocols since the mucormycosis fungus enters the body through a cut, scrape, burn, or other types of skin trauma when the skin comes in contact with fungal spores in the environment.As such, a few of the conditions in which a Covid-19 patient might find themselves to be at an increased risk of the mucormycosis infection are:1. If they are visiting dusty construction sites without masks.2. If they are not wearing shoes, long trousers, long sleeve shirts, and gloves while handling soil (gardening), moss, or manure.3. If they have experienced prolonged hospital or ICU stay.4. If they are co-morbid, have undergone organ transplant, or are suffering from cancer.5. If they are not maintaining personal hygiene properly in general.Covid-19 patients need to be wary of steroid 'misuse'Dr. Randeep Guleria, AIIMS chief, said that the mucormycosis fungal spores are of low virulence and usually do not cause infection. There were very few cases before Covid-19, but a large number of cases are only being reported in recent times due to the coronavirus disease infection, which affects immunity. Since steroids like dexamethasone also repress the immune system, it is necessary to be extra careful regarding its use, now more so than ever.Also Read: What is Mucormycosis and how deadly is it? Know everything about Black Fungus"Overuse, misuse, and rampant use of steroids in Covid-19 patients cause black fungus, also known as mucormycosis," said Dr. Suresh Kumar, medical director of LNJP hospital in New Delhi.He said that steroid use must be reduced. "If given to patients with oxygen levels over 90, black fungus is a possible side-effect. Early diagnosis is critical. A CT scan of the face would detect this infection, after which antifungal drug amphotericin will be used for treatment," he said."Quite often a patient dies due to black fungus (mucormycosis) instead of Covid-19," Dr. Suresh Kumar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/misuse-of-steroids-major-cause-behind-mucormycosis-infection-aiims-chief-101621078067509.html
15-05-2021||India||Media report on Gujarat undercounting Covid deaths is ‘inaccurate’, says government||A day after media reports on Gujarat undercounting Covid deaths emerged, the state's additional chief secretary, Pankaj Kumar, told reporters on Saturday that the move of using death certificates to ascertain the number of fatalities suffers from inaccuracies and should be discarded.“There has been a trend where death certificates' figures are being used to ascertain figures of death. Recently such a report published by one of the newspapers where they've utilised analysis to establish suppression of death figures on part of the government,” Kumar said, as quoted by ANI.A Gujarati newspaper published a report on Friday using death certificates issued by state authorities between March 1 and May 10 to claim that the state has witnessed an excess of 61,000 deaths compared to the same time last year. The report was compiled on the basis of data collected from municipal authorities of 33 districts and 8 major cities. This report follows the precedent set by many other Gujarati newspapers which have claimed Covid-19 fatalities were being consistently underreported in the state.The additional chief secretary also said that the media report has ignored that a year-to-year comparison needs to factor in that the death rate goes up every year due to the annual growth of the population. Hence, the entire report should be done away with.“It is also pertinent to note that while doing a comparison on a year to year basis, annual growth of population and the corresponding increase in the number of deaths, usually 5-10%, needs to be factored into which have completely been done away with,” said Kumar.“Therefore, the whole analysis and inferences drawn in the said report suffers from multiple inaccuracies and needs to be discarded,” he added.Highlighting the media reports, the Congress called for an inquiry into the matter, asking the state government to “own up” and take action against officials involved in fudging of Covid data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/media-report-on-gujarat-undercounting-covid-deaths-is-inaccurate-says-government-101621079706813.html
15-05-2021||India||Covid-19: Maharashtra leads list of states where active caseload declined the most in last 15 days||Maharashtra leads the list of states where the number of active cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has declined the maximum in a 15-day period starting from May 1. Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Gujarat and Telangana are the other states or Union territories which also saw a decline in their respective active caseload.In a tweet on Saturday, the Union ministry of health and family welfare listed five states where the active caseload declined the most since May 1 and another five states where it increased the most in the same period.#IndiaFightsCoronaThe change in active cases for states in the last 24 hoursThe change in number of active cases for states in the last 15 days.#Unite2FightCorona #StaySafe 5/7 pic.twitter.com/ArOlo2wgVDData shared by the ministry showed that Maharashtra, which had 664,683 active cases on May 1, witnessed a decline of 143,000 and currently accounts for 521,683 cases. Uttar Pradesh followed closely, as the active cases in the state fell by 116,968 and stood at 193,815 on Saturday from the 310,783 reported on May 1.Meanwhile, the national capital Delhi reported 99,361 active cases on May 1 which has now reduced to 71,794 cases. The Union health ministry noted that this fall of 27,567 cases is the third highest in the mentioned time period.Gujarat and Telangana, two states which have been reporting a high number of new infections in the second wave, also witnessed a decline in their respective active caseload in the past 15 days. Gujarat’s active caseload was 142,046 on May 1 and fell by 24,673 and currently stands at 117,373. Telangana reported 78,888 active cases and currently has 54,832, a decline of 24.056 cases.Also read | 'Vaccinated or not': Government's scientific advisor has 3 tips against Covid-19Four southern states -- Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh -- along with Odisha saw their active caseload increasing in the last 15 days. Among these states, Karnataka witnessed the maximum spike. The state had 382,710 active cases on May 1 which has now grown to 598,625, an increase of 215,915 cases. Currently it has the maximum number of active cases among all states in India and adds 28 per cent to the national tally.Kerala saw its active caseload grow by 138,476 and currently has 442,550 cases from the 304,074 reported on May 1. Andhra Pradesh witnessed the third highest increase (80,807 cases added) in the 15 days. The state had 122,980 active cases on May 1 and currently has 203,787 cases.Neighbouring Tamil Nadu’s active caseload also swelled significantly by 80,211 cases and currently stands at 195,339 from the 115,128 reported at the beginning of this month. Odisha’s active cases surged by 38,003 cases from the 56,737 the state reported on May 1 to 94,740 on Saturday.Earlier on the day, the Union health ministry also said that India’s active caseload fell by 31,091 cases in the last 24 hours. It currently stands at 3,673,802 and accounts for 15.07 per cent of the country’s overall cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-maharashtra-leads-list-of-states-where-active-caseload-declined-the-most-in-last-15-days-101621078473201.html
15-05-2021||India||Empowering women, empowering lives||Women’s economic empowerment refers to the ability for women to enjoy their rights to control and benefit from resources, assets, income and their own time, as well as the ability to manage risk and improve their economic status and wellbeing. Keeping this in mind, Luke Talwar, director, Turiya Investments is spearheading a project for the upliftment of rural women in the quaint town of Madhya Pradesh.Talwar says, “We have joined hands with a women’s self help group called Van Durga, which supports women farmers who grow and sell a variety of local fruits for end-products.”The group, which has just received considerable funding from Osmium Global, a fund, plans to produce innovative jamun wine. He says, “ We at Turiya investments commit to growing and nurturing socially mature business ideas. This project will not only give impetus to marginalized farmers who lack resources to integrate their produce into the mainstream market, but also come up with a range of innovative end-products.”The project and its stakeholders will help women to procure de-seeding machines, pulping machines and the cold storage unit while teaching and motivating them to produce farm products for the end-use market. “We are trying to ensure that these 10 women are able to manage their time and resources optimally. The raw materials are all ethically sourced bringing value to the end consumer, and manufacturer,” he adds.The 27-year-old promises to scale-up businesses that are ethical, and give social forestry a new lease of life.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/empowering-women-empowering-lives-101621077424965.html
15-05-2021||India||'I plead with you as a scientist': VK Paul on Covishield dose gap controversy||Niti Aayog (health) member VK Paul on Saturday said the decision to extend the gap between the two doses of Covishield to 12 to 16 weeks was an independent decision taken by the scientific body, without any pressure. "I am pleading to all of you with folded hands to put these controversies to rest," Dr Paul said. Countering allegations that the gap between the two doses has been extended to 12 to 16 weeks owing to the scarcity of vaccines in India, Dr Paul said the narrative is saddening."Saying that the decision was taken under some kind of pressure trivialises the matter. Our scientific institutions comprise independent scientists. National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) is a standing committee that guided the country in the past — on rotavirus and several other immunisation programmes. Scientists of this panel deliberate and then come to a consensus," Dr Paul said explaining the rationale behind extending the gap between the two doses to 12 to 16 weeks.Watch: NITI Aayog explains Covishield dose gap increase to 10-12 weekWhen to take Covid-19 vaccine 2nd dose? What to do if once infected? What experts recommendThe government has recently accepted the recommendation of the expert panel and widened the gap between the two doses of Covishield vaccines to 12 to 16 weeks. In January, the recommended gap was four to six weeks, which in April was extended to six to eight weeks. The decision courted criticism as opposition leaders accused the government of creating confusion and covering up the acute shortage of vaccines."Had it really been because of a shortage of vaccines, we could have done it before when the UK did it as extending the gap suits the so-called shortage but at that time we respected scientific findings," Dr Paul said adding that when the UK pushed the second dose of the Covishield vaccine to three months, India's scientific body did not recommend it as there were risks of breakthrough infections."Just a single dose and delayed second dose could make the chance of infection higher. When studies were conducted, the standard protocol was to administer the two doses in a gap of four to six weeks. Somewhere there was a breach in the protocol and there was a delay in administering the second dose. This breach should not have happened, but it happened. After analysis, it was found that delaying the second dose did not make any difference. But that was not considered robust evidence to extend the gap between the doses.," Dr Paul said.So what changed now that the expert panel favoured extending the gap between the doses? Explaining the change of stance, Dr Paul said, "Now that the UK is administering the doses in a gap of three months, lakhs of people have been administered two doses in a gap of three months. This basically means a single dose for three months. So now, we have real-life evidence that transmission of the infection gets stalled when the gap is widened. This is around 60-85 per cent effective in disease protection. Now we got the confidence to implement the gap."He also said such extensive data do not become available in research as the scope remains narrow, but now India's expert group has real-life data.Urging people to not find any other reason behind the scientific decision, he said, "I plead with you as a scientists and as a professional. We must respect our institutions. Not everything is maths in public health. Science is evolving. Scientific knowledge about SARS-CoV-2 is only 1.5 years old. As and when new data emerges, we will see what next we get to learn."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/saddening-vk-paul-on-claims-that-covishield-dose-gap-widened-owing-to-crunch-101621073799487.html
15-05-2021||India||Mucormycosis not new, but present surge is because of Covid, explains AIIMS chief Dr Guleria||AIIMS chief Dr Randeep Guleria on Saturday said the black fungus infection, called mucormycosis, is not any new infection but the number of cases has suddenly increased because of Covid-19 and its treatment. The spores of this fungus are present in the air, in soil and sometimes in food, but its virulence is low. "So wearing the mask is very important, especially if you visit a construction site," Dr Guleria said adding that at AIIMS Delhi there are 23 cases of the infection. Out of these, 20 patients are still infected with Covid-19, he said.Some states are reporting over 400 to 500 cases, Dr Guleria said. Urging hospitals to focus more on infection control, the AIIMS chief said that secondary fungal infection is causing more morbidity and mortality.What is Mucormycosis and how deadly is it? Know everything about Black Fungus"Mucormycosis was present before Covid also. During the 2003 SARS outbreak too, this infection was reported," Dr Guleria said adding that Covid infection, diabetes and the misuse of steroid during the treatment of Covid-19 are responsible for the increase in the infection.During the pre-covid times, this infection was reported only among diabetics with uncontrolled blood pressure level or those who have undergone transplants of chemotherapy, because of immunosuppressive drugs. But because of Covid-19, the infection has become common now, Dr Guleria said.The infection can be of two types — one that affects the face, nose and part of the brain causing loss of eyesight and the other that can infect the lungs. Listing out the symptoms of both the manifestations, Dr Guleria said early prevention is of paramount importance.If steroid misuse can be controlled and the patient does not have high blood sugar, then chances of post-covid fungal infection will be rare. Blood sugar level can reach 300-400 because of steroids, the AIIMS chief said adding a mild to moderate dose of steroid is good enough and has to be administered only for five to 10 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cases-of-post-covid-mucormycosis-are-increasing-says-aiims-chief-101621072495151.html
15-05-2021||India||Chhattisgarh extends Covid lockdown till May 31; districts can ease restrictions||RAIPUR: The Chhattisgarh government has asked district administrations to extend the lockdown till May 31 to contain the surge of Covid-19 cases, officials said on Saturday. The government has, however, allowed the district authorities to grant more relaxations in economic and other activities in this extended lockdown period.The lockdown, in force in all 28 districts, was to end on Saturday midnight. A government statement said the lockdown will continue but the districts are being allowed to grant relaxations, depending on Covid status and risk being faced in each district. “The restrictions and relaxations shall be applied till May 31,” the statement said.The state government had first imposed the restrictions in early April and has extended the lockdown since then.According to Union health ministry data, Chhattisgarh has 1,15,964 active cases, a decline of over 3,000 cases from yesterday. The move to allow districts to ease relaxations in view of local conditions is being linked to the variation in the Covid positivity rates, ranging from 30.9% in Raigarh district to 10.1% in Kondagaon district.“All kinds of standalone shops including those related to grocery, daily needs, vegetables and fruits and shops selling meat, poultry, eggs, fish, milk and milk products can function till 5pm. Although home delivery service for these products will be encouraged at the same time,” the government statement said.Banks and post offices can function with 50 percent of its staff and put in place appropriate social/physical distancing measures. Registry offices will also remain open with basic staff, for all registries, the statement added.According to the new guidelines, all government and private construction activities will be allowed but they will have to comply with all standard operating procedures and labour safety measures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-extends-covid-lockdown-till-may-31-districts-can-ease-restrictions-101621072263519.html
15-05-2021||India||Increase Covid-19 testing in areas with high test positivity rates: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday chaired a high-level meeting on the situation over the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccination in India. Senior officials of the central government who attended the meeting also provided the Prime Minister with a detailed briefing over the current status of other Covid-19 related efforts, from testing to the positivity and recovery rates. Prime Minister Modi instructed that the rate of Covid-19 testing be scaled up in areas that have reported high test positivity rates (TPR), according to an official press note.Prime Minister Modi took to his official handle on Twitter to post, "Discussed a number of issues during today’s review meeting on COVID-19, including scaling up testing in areas with high TPR, preparing localized containment strategies, augmenting health capacities in rural areas and ramping up the speed of vaccination."Discussed a number of issues during today’s review meeting on COVID-19, including scaling up testing in areas with high TPR, preparing localised containment strategies, augmenting health capacities in rural areas and ramping up the speed of vaccination. https://t.co/ysQmtDiZAQPrime Minister Narendra Modi stressed the fact that localised Covid-19 testing is the need of the hour, especially for states where the TPR in districts is high. In these regions, both RT-PCR and rapid tests need to be scaled up further, the Prime Minister said, adding that states should be encouraged to report their numbers transparently without any pressure of high numbers showing adversely on their efforts.Officials also briefed Prime Minister Modi about the vaccination process and the state-wise coverage of 45+ population. The roadmap for future vaccine availability was also discussed. He directed officials to work closely with states to ramp up the speed of vaccination.The Prime Minister also spoke about empowering ASHA and Anganwadi workers with all necessary tools and asked for guidelines to be made available in easy language along with illustrations for home isolation and treatment in rural areas. According to an official note, Prime Minister Modi also asked for augmentation of healthcare resources in rural areas to focus on door-to-door testing and surveillance.For rural areas, the Prime Minister noted that a proper distribution plan for ensuring oxygen supply needs to be chalked out, including the thorough provision of oxygen concentrators. He added that health workers should be adequately trained to operate such equipment, and power supply should be ensured for the smooth operation of such medical devices.Meanwhile, PM Modi took "serious note" of some reports about ventilators lying unutilised in storage in some states and directed that an immediate audit of installation and operation of ventilators provided by the central government be carried out. The Prime Minister added that refresher training for properly operating ventilators should be provided to healthcare workers if necessary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/increase-coronavirus-covid-19-testing-in-areas-with-high-test-positivity-rates-tpr-prime-minister-pm-narendra-modi-101621070296374.html
15-05-2021||India||As Tauktae approaches west coast, know more about the storm and how to track it||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Saturday announced that a deep depression over the Arabian sea intensified into a cyclonic storm Tauktae and was centred over Lakshadweep island.As several states in the western coast of India brace for the cyclone to make a landfall, here is all that you need to know about 2021’s first storm:• The IMD had forecast on Friday that the cyclonic storm ‘Tauktae’ (pronounced as Tau’Te) is likely to intensify further into a ‘very severe cyclonic storm’ by Monday, with windspeed ranging between 150kmph and 160kmph.• The cyclone is likely to impact areas including the coast of Kerala, Karnataka, Lakshadweep, Goa and Maharashtra. The IMD has issued an ‘orange category’ warning for Goa on May 15 and 16.ALSO READ: India closely monitoring Cyclone Tauktae, no decision yet on shutting airports• The cyclone is likely to move north north-eastwards initially for some more time and then move north north-westwards and reach the Gujarat coast where it is likely to make a landfall on Tuesday morning.• Tauktae is expected to pass through Porbandar and Naliya in coastal Gujarat on Tuesday afternoon.• The authorities have sounded a red alert in five districts of Kerala -- Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Alappuzha, Pathanamitta and Ernakulam -- and have deployed National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) in areas likely to affected by the cyclone.• Mumbai and Thane too, where the effect of the storm is expected to be felt over the weekend, have been put under the yellow category storm warning by the IMD.• However, the influence of the storm in Maharashtra is likely to subside after Monday as it would travel north-westwards towards Gujarat around May 18, the IMD said.ALSO READ: Vistara, IndiGo say some flights likely to be impacted due to Cyclone Tauktae• The Indian Navy has kept its ships, aircraft, helicopters, diving and disaster relief teams on standby to help state administrations as the cyclone approaches.• Heavy rainfall with strong winds lashed parts of Kerala and coastal Maharashtra on Saturday as the storm intensified. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had on Friday heled a meeting where he asked district administrations, divisional commissioners and district collectors of Palghar, Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg to stay vigilant.• Fishermen have been advised against venturing into sea and coast guards are on constant patrol.For latest updates on the cyclone, you can visit the website of the Regional Specialised Meteorological Centre for Cyclones over North Indian Ocean.You can also visit Earth Null school's website, which provides a visualisation of global weather conditions and forecast to track Tauktae in real time as it approaches the western coast.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-tauktae-approaches-west-coast-know-more-about-the-storm-and-how-to-track-it-101621070329360.html
15-05-2021||India||'Vaccinated or not': Government's scientific advisor has 3 tips against Covid-19||The principal scientific adviser to the government, K VijayRaghavan, on Saturday asked said there are three things that people must adhere to, irrespective of whether they are vaccinated or not. While masks and maintaining physical distancing have been reiterated several times by the government and experts, Dr VijayRaghavan added ventilation to the list."These interventions are also immediately critical for lowering pressures on the healthcare system, during this surge. Adherence essential at the personal and community levels. By all," he said.Covid-19 in children: How to identify symptoms early on and tackle themVery important, whether vaccinated or not: Masks, physical distancing, ventilation. These interventions are also immediately critical for lowering pressures on the healthcare system, during this surge. Adherence essential at the personal and community levels. By all.In its guideline for home treatment of Covid-19, the Centre emphasised isolating in a well-ventilated room. Even if people are getting vaccinated, comprising both the doses of either Covishield or Covaxin, one must stay in a well-ventilated room, the adviser said, while the need for wearing a mask and maintaining social distancing does not get diminished with vaccination. Even the health ministry has suggested wearing masks inside the home as well.Dr VijayRaghavan recently said that a third wave of the pandemic is inevitable. But it can be resisted if adequate preventive measures are taken. Explaining, he said the virus spreads when there is the availability of vulnerable population — people who are not vaccinated, people who do not have antibodies and people who are not adhering to Covid appropriate behaviour. While the mutation of the virus strain may or may not have any impact on the level of transmission of the infection, not taking precaution will expose people to the infection, he said.India on Friday crossed the significant landmark of vaccinating 18 crore doses since the beginning of the vaccination drive from January 16. The major feat comes at a time when the country is battling the peak of the second wave of the pandemic amid a dearth of medical resources.Cases of reinfections after full course of vaccination are few, but the Centre has been reiterating that masking is mandatory even after complete vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccinated-or-not-government-s-scientific-advisor-has-3-tips-against-covid-101621069749774.html
15-05-2021||India||Mamata Banerjee’s younger brother dies after battling Covid-19 for a month||Ashim Banerjee, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s younger brother, died on Saturday morning after being detected with Covid-19, last month, the hospital said in a statement.Ashim Banerjee, 62, was undergoing treatment at the hospital for the past one month, Dr Alok Roy, chairman of the city’s Medica Superspecialty Hospital, Kolkata, said, according to ANI.A senior doctor at the hospital said Ashim Banerjee died around 9:20 am. “He was detected with Covid-19 last month and was undergoing treatment for almost a month now. He had certain comorbidities such as hypertension,” the doctor said. Ashim Banerjee stayed in the same house where Mamata Banerjee, 66, lives. His last rites will be performed at Nimtala cremation ground today following Covid protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-banerjee-s-younger-brother-dies-after-battling-covid-19-for-a-month-101621069323450.html
15-05-2021||India||Black Fungus declared notified disease in Haryana||State health minister Anil Vij on Saturday said black fungus has now been declared a notified disease in Haryana.He further said Post Graduate Institute Rohtak Senior Doctors will conduct a video conference with all doctors of the state regarding dealing with coronavirus and its treatment."Black Fungus declared Notified Disease in Haryana. Now Doctors will report to CMOs of the District of any Black Fungus case detected. Post Graduate Institute Rohtak Senior Doctors will conduct a video conference with all Doctors of the State dealing Corona about its treatment," Anil Vij said in a tweet.It has been reported that this disease (Black Fungus) is caused by the steroid administered in the treatment of Covid-19 infection.Earlier, in the day the Odisha government constituted a seven-member state-level committee to monitor such cases in the state.According to the state health bulletin, the state reported 10,608 new Covid-19 cases and 164 deaths in the past 24 hours on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/black-fungus-declared-notified-disease-in-haryana-101621068887074.html
15-05-2021||India||Covid-19 in children: How to identify symptoms early on and tackle them||For parents worried about not detecting the symptoms of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in their children at early stages, the Union health ministry has released a set of guidelines. As Covid-19 symptoms in children are often mild, they initially go undetected, which results in more severe cough, fever, or breathlessness, in some cases.According to the health ministry, there are a few characteristics of the virus in children that their guardians should be on the lookout for.Symptoms to trackThough a majority of the children who contract the virus may be asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic, fever, cough, breathlessness, fatigue, myalgia, rhinorrhoea, sore throat, diarrhoea, loss of smell, loss of taste are common symptoms. A few children may also have gastrointestinal issues, the ministry said.A new syndrome called multi-system inflammatory syndrome has been observed in children. This syndrome is characterised by fever, abdominal pain, vomiting, diarrhoea, rash, and cardiovascular and neurological problems.In case the child is asymptomaticIf a child tests positive for the virus but is asymptomatic, there is a need to constantly track their health for development of symptoms. Early detection of symptoms will lead to early treatment, say health experts. Meanwhile, if children have mild symptoms such as sore throat, cough and rhinorrhoea but no breathing difficulty, they can be taken care of at home, the ministry said.Children with underlying comorbid conditions including congenital heart disease, chronic lung disease, chronic organ dysfunction or obesity may also be treated at home.Treatment of mild cases of Covid-19 in childrenTo treat fever in children, a paracetamol (10-15mg) may be used every 4 to 6 hours. For cough, gargles with warm, saline water will help, the health ministry said. Intake of fluids and a nutritious diet is mandatory.The ministry also clarified on the role of antiviral medication in treatment of Covid-19 in children. "There is no role of hydroxychloroquine, Favipiravir, Ivermectin, Iopinavir/Ritonavir, Remdesivir, Umifenovir, immunomodulators including Tocilizumab, Interferon B1a, convalescent plasma infusion or Dexamethosone," the guidelines read.It was important to maintain a monitoring chart for respiratory rates and oxygen levels. These should be checked 2-3 times a day. Chest indrawing, discolouration of body, urine output, fluid intake and activity level should also be monitored, especially in young children. Parents should contact doctors in case they notice anything out of the ordinary.Treatment of moderate cases of Covid-19 in childrenIf the respiratory rate is below 60 per minute in children less than two months old, below 50 per minute for children less than one year old, below 40 per minute for children up to five years and below 30 per minute for those over five, they may be suffering from a moderate case of Covid-19. The oxygen saturation level in all these age groups should be above 90%.No regular lab tests will be required unless the children have comorbid conditions and those conditions demand regular tests. But there is a need for children with moderate Covid-19 to be admitted to dedicated Covid health centres and monitored for clinical progress. In these cases, there was a need to encourage oral feeds (breast feeds in infants) and maintenance of fluid and electrolyte balance. Intravenous fluid therapy should be initiated if oral intake is poor, the ministry said.Treatment of severe cases of Covid-19 in childrenChildren with severe Covid-19 SpO2 (oxygen saturation) level of less than 90% and grunting, severe retraction of chest, lethargy, somnolence, seizure are some of the symptoms of severe Covid-19. Such children should be admitted to a dedicated Covid-19 healthcare facility and some of them may require HDU/ICU care. They should also be checked for thrombosis, hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH) and organ failure.Complete blood counts, liver and renal function tests and chest X-rays are mandatory for such cases. Corticosteroids (0.15 mg per dose) twice a day or antiviral drugs (such as Remdesivir granted for emergency use authorisation) should be used in a restricted manner after three days of onset of symptoms and after making sure that the child's liver and renal functions are normal.The second wave of Covid-19 in the country has devastated the healthcare system. So far, over 24,372,907 people have been infected and 266,207 have lost their lives due to the virus. The country's vaccination programme is also facing shortage issues as its only two vaccine manufacturers struggle to keep up with the demand. Amid shortage of vaccines being reported from across the nation for adults, India’s drug regulator on May 13 gave Bharat Biotech the permission to conduct clinical trials of Covaxin on children between the age of 2 and 18. This will be the first coronavirus inoculation to be tested in minors in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-in-children-how-to-identify-symptoms-early-on-and-tackle-them-101621067312983.html
15-05-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir govt announces ₹3 crore relief package for tourism sector||Srinagar: Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Friday announced a ₹3 crore relief package for people associated with the tourism sector that has taken a severe hit due to the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic.Under this package, ₹2,000 financial assistance will be provided to 4,444 registered Shikara owners, 1,370 tourist guides, 6,663 ponywalas and 2,150 others including those who rent palanquins for yatris. The money will be paid for two months.“The relief will be transferred to only those who are registered with the tourism department,” said an official.Those in the tourism sector say this was a very limited package.The package does not have anything for travel agents, owners of Kashmir’s famed houseboats, hotels and transport operators. This package should at least extend amnesty for power and water bills for the tourism infrastructure, said Dr Umar Nazir Tibet Baqal, member of the TAAK Travel agents’ association of Kashmir.Jammu and Kashmir’s tourism sector has been in a bad shape for most of the last two years, beginning with the August decision to revoke the special status of Jammu and Kashmir and with the government asking tourists to leave the region. Tour operators had hoped that the tourist inflow would improve last year but the Covid pandemic kept most people away.The sector appeared to have been successful to get on its feet early this year and it did improve. The government also opened Tulip Garden on the banks of Dal Lake from March 25 despite an increase in Kashmir’s Covid-19 figures.But the Covid-19’s second wave, which wreaked havoc across the country, led to cancellation of the bookings. “This year we were expecting a bumper tourism season which would break all past records. From December onwards, I think more than 1.5 lakh tourists have visited the valley already. Unfortunately, the second wave hit the region and the season is gone,” said an officer bearer of a tour and trade association in Kashmir on condition of anonymity.As the disease started spreading in Jammu and Kashmir as well, the administration last month started imposing curfew in districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-and-kashmir-govt-announces-rs-3-crore-relief-package-for-tourism-sector-101621067703522.html
15-05-2021||India||Congress plans to step up relief activities to mark Rajiv Gandhi’s death anniversary||The Congress has asked members of legislative assemblies and councils across the country to provide “at least two ambulances” as it plans to step up the Covid-19 relief activities ahead of late former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi’s 30th death anniversary on May 21. In a letter to the state chiefs and central functionaries, Congress’s general secretary (organisation) KC Venugopal has also suggested a five-point programme to augment the party’s relief works that have earned accolades, especially for the Youth Congress team led by Srinivas BV. “Focus on relief activities by providing food and arranging medicine kits to people. Kits of basic medicines should be prepared and distributed to the deprived persons. The kit may contain necessary medicines and medicines on-demand,” Venugopal said. He asked the state leaders to “observe a mass mask distribution programme at state, district and block levels” and distribute food to attendants at hospitals, ambulance drivers, and other needy people. The Congress also wants its state units to “help people in getting registered for the vaccination programme through the platforms concerned”.The Congress Working Committee, the party’s highest decision-making body, this week raised concerns that many people, particularly the underprivileged and a large section of the rural population, might be left out of the inoculation campaign as registration through the Co-Win app is compulsory for it. Venugopal has asked the Congress state units to convene meetings at the earliest and allocate relief related responsibilities to ministers, lawmakers, elected representations at the grassroots level and even to those who fought but have lost elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-plans-to-step-up-relief-activities-to-mark-rajiv-gandhi-s-death-anniversary-101621066203442.html
15-05-2021||India||Covid-19: How to do deep breathing exercises, how do they help, Centre answers||The Centre on Saturday underlined the importance of staying healthy amid the raging second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and suggested a deep breathing exercise which it said can help people in recovery after illness. Sharing a chart on Twitter, the government said this exercise can be done after taking steam inhalation and also without it.Breathing exercises including those performed in yoga such as Anulom Vilom Pranayam have proven to boost the general immunity of the human body. India is currently seeing a high number of cases and deaths due to Covid-19 which has also led to scarcity of oxygen supplies. Several infected patients have died due to massive drops in their oxygen levels. Therefore, it becomes extremely crucial for the people, irrespective of whether they are infected with Covid-19, to maintain their oxygen at adequate levels.Here are six steps by which you can perform this breathing exercise:> Sit up in a chair.> Keep your body relaxed.> Breathe in slowly through your nose> Hold in your breath.> Release your breath slowly, keeping your mouth open.> Do it 10 times in one go.The government also said the above exercise should be done only in a closed room and without wearing masks. People with acute breathing problems, high temperature and chest pain are, however, advised against performing the exercise. If anyone feels dizzy or experiences palpitations while performing the breathing exercise should stop.During this pandemic, it is important to stay healthy. Here’s how you can do deep breathing exercises which may help in recovery after illness. Take a look! #IndiaFightsCorona #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/luhLaw4sIxApart from the above, the Union health ministry recently released guidelines for self-proning which improves breathing comfort and oxygenation. Proning is extremely beneficial in Covid patients with compromised breathing effort, especially if they are in home isolation, the ministry said adding this exercise is only needed when a patient experiences difficulty in breathing and the oxygen saturation goes below 94.India, meanwhile, on Saturday recorded 326,098 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases and 3,890 more deaths, taking the caseload and the death toll to 24,372,907 and 266,207 respectively, according to the Union health ministry’s dashboard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-how-to-do-deep-breathing-exercises-how-do-they-help-centre-answers-101621062652733.html
15-05-2021||India||‘Shield of humanity’: Shiv Sena’s rare praise for Shivraj Singh Chouhan govt||Mumbai: The Shiv Sena on Saturday singled out the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government for praise for announcing a monthly pension for children who have lost their parents, saying this could be a role model for other states.The Sena, in its mouthpiece Saamana, said state and central governments have to take cognizance of children who had become orphans due to Covid-19 and must be given the “shield of humanity”.The Madhya Pradesh government on Thursday announced that children who lost their parents or guardians to Covid-19 will be provided free education and a ₹5,000 monthly pension. The state will also bear the expenses of education of these children.The editorial in Saamana, which spoke about the plight of children who had lost their parents, welcomed the initiative.“Many children are unaware that their parents who are fighting Covid may not return from the hospital. The government will have to take care of these orphaned children by becoming their guardian. Whether it is the Union government or the State, they would have to take note of these children and give them the shield of humanity the way Madhya Pradesh’s Shivraj Chouhan has done,” the editorial said.In Maharashtra where the Shiv Sena leads the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi coalition government, the state government earlier this week decided to form a task force in each district under the collector to identify children who have been orphaned due to Covid-19 to ensure their safety.The editorial added that many have expressed concern over the issue and several discussions have been happening about it. “In Maharashtra too the discussion happened over this issue but Madhya Pradesh did not merely discuss this serious matter and announced that they would give pension to such children,” the editorial said in a critical tone.Madhya Pradesh was one of the first states to put the spotlight on the plight of children orphaned due to Covid-19 and take steps to ensure that unscrupulous people do not exploit the situation. Several other states followed suit.On Thursday, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal also announced that the government will provide free education to children who have lost their parents to Covid-19 and extend financial assistance to all those, especially senior citizens, who have lost the only earning member of their family to the disease.On Thursday, Chhattisgarh had declared that the government will pay for the education of children who have lost their parents to Covid-19. Under the scheme, a monthly stipend of ₹500 will be paid to such children from Classes 1 to 8 and ₹1,000 per month from Classes 9 to 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shield-of-humanity-shiv-sena-s-rare-praise-for-shivraj-singh-chouhan-govt-101621060863181.html
15-05-2021||India||India and US hold talks on increasing Covid vaccine availability, TRIPS waiver||Union industry and commerce minister Piyush Goyal on Friday held a virtual meeting with the United States Trade representative Katherine Tai with regard to increasing the availability of vaccine doses against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) ‘in an inclusive and equitable manner’ to fight against the global pandemic, according to a statement issued by the ministry of commerce and industry.Goyal and Tai also held talks on both India and the United States working together on the Trade-Related aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) waiver with a view to ensure that vaccine doses are affordable to all.“The proposal of India on waiver of certain TRIPS provisions to increase global vaccine production in order to take on the challenge of vaccinating the poorest of the poor and saving lives was also discussed. Goyal thanked Tai for the US announcing its support for India’s proposal,” the statement said.Had a fruitful discussion with US Trade Representative @AmbassadorTai focusing on India & US working together on Trade-Related aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) waiver. This will ensure affordable COVID-19 vaccines for all. pic.twitter.com/Rin6V7YDRjDuring the meeting, Tai spoke about her backing for the waiver of intellectual property protection for vaccines and text-based negotiations at the World Trade Organization (WTO), which are a part of President Joe Administration’s efforts to expand manufacturing and distribution of vaccines doses across the globe, the office of the US Trade Representative said in a statement.Also Read| A new chapter for the TRIPS waiver proposalShe also expressed her sympathy towards the worsening situation in India due to the second wave of the pandemic and reasserted United States’ commitment to help the latter during the crisis.The WTO agreement on TRIPS is a detailed multilateral agreement on intellectual property. In October 2020, India, South Africa and 57 other members of the WTO had proposed a waiver from specific provisions of the TRIPS agreement for the prevention, containment and treatment of the Covid-19 disease, news agency ANI reported.Also Read| Digital divide: More jabs administered in urban districts than in rural areasLast week, the United States government announced its support for a global waiver on patent protections for vaccines in order to boost its supply globally. “This is a global health crisis, and the extraordinary circumstances of the Covid-19 pandemic call for extraordinary measures,” US Trade Representative Tai said in a statement on May 6. The United States government will soon negotiate the terms at the WTO.However, European leaders and several drug manufactures including Germany’s BioNTech have opposed this move. Ugur Sahin, the chief executive officer (CEO) of BioNTech, which is manufacturing vaccines along with US based Pfizer, told news agency AP on May 10 there is no need to waive patents as manufacturers will be able to produce sufficient vaccine doses to supply to all countries in the coming year.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-and-us-hold-talks-on-increasing-covid-vaccine-availability-tripswaiver-101621056905719.html
15-05-2021||India||Mortal remains of Soumya Santhosh, Kerala woman killed in Israel, arrive in India||The mortal remains of 30-year-old Soumya Santhosh, the Kerala woman who lost her life in the rocket attack on the Israeli city of Ashkelon, arrived in New Delhi, earlier on Saturday morning. Minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan along with Israeli deputy envoy Rony Yedidia Clein paid their last respects to the deceased in the national capital.“With a heavy heart, received the mortal remains of Ms. Soumya Santhosh in Delhi and paid my last respects. CDA of Israel Embassy @RonyYedidia also joined. I empathise with the pain and sufferings of the family of Ms. Soumya. More strength to them,” Muraleedharan tweeted on Saturday.With a heavy heart, received the mortal remains of Ms. Soumya Santhosh in Delhi and paid my last respects. CDA of Israel Embassy @RonyYedidia also joined. I empathise with the pain and sufferings of the family of Ms. Soumya. More strength to them. pic.twitter.com/97bvOziCpGEarlier on Friday, the minister of state had said that he will personally receive Ms Santhosh’s mortal remains in Delhi. “The mortal remains of Ms Soumya Santhosh, who was killed in rocket attacks from Gaza, are being repatriated today from Israel to Kerala through Delhi. They will reach her native place tomorrow. I will personally be receiving the remains in Delhi. May her soul rest in peace,” he had tweeted on Friday.The Indian embassy in Israel, later on Friday night, confirmed that the aircraft carrying her mortal remains had taken off for New Delhi from Israel.Soumya Santhosh was working as a caregiver to an elderly woman in the Israeli city of Ashkelon near the Gaza strip, according to a report by the news agency ANI. Soumya’s family said that she was living in Israel for seven years while her husband and their nine-year-old son stayed in Kerala.Watch | Mortal remains of Kerala woman killed in rocket attack in Israel arrive in India﻿Israel’s deputy envoy Rony Yedidia Clein on Thursday had said that the mortal remains of the deceased would reach India by Saturday. “We have been in touch with the family. She was talking to her husband when this happened and I can imagine how horrendous it's for the husband. I can only sympathise with what he must be feeling,” news agency ANI quoted her as saying.Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan also conveyed his condolences to the family of Ms Santhosh. “We are in touch with the Indian Embassy in Israel to ensure that the mortal remains of Soumya Santhosh who was killed in Israel is brought back to Kerala and handed over to her family as soon as possible. Heartfelt condolences to the family and friends of Soumya,” Vijayan had said on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mortal-remains-of-soumya-santhosh-kerala-woman-killed-in-israel-arrive-in-india-101621055688691.html
15-05-2021||India||India adds 326,098 new Covid cases, 3,890 more deaths; tally over 24.37 million||India on Saturday recorded 326,098 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases and 3,890 more deaths, taking the caseload and the death toll to 24,372,907 and 266,207 respectively, according to the Union health ministry’s dashboard. As many as 353,299 people recovered in the last 24 hours and the total recoveries have climbed to 20,432,898 and constitute 83.50% of the caseload. The active cases stand at 3,673,802.Nearly 1.7 million samples (1,693,093 to be exact) were tested for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative testing figures to 313,017,193 , according to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).Saturday’s case count is 17,046 less than that of Friday’s when 343,144 people tested positive for the disease. India is severely hit by the deadlier second wave of the pandemic and is reporting a high increase in cases and deaths on a daily basis. This increase has led to a near collapse of the country’s health infrastructure with states and Union territories (UTs) flagging shortage of oxygen supplies, hospital beds, vaccine doses and essential drugs such as Remdesivir and Tocilizumab.Also Read| 'India's Covid-19 situation hugely concerning': WHO chiefThe World Health Organization (WHO) said on Friday that the Covid-19 disease situation in India remains hugely concerning as several states continue to see high numbers of cases, deaths and hospitalisations. Addressing a press conference, WHO director general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said that the WHO is responding to the Covid crisis in India and has supplied thousands of oxygen concentrators, masks, tents for mobile field hospitals and other medical equipment, news agency PTI reported.The Centre, meanwhile, said on Thursday that Covid-19 can emerge again adding preparations have to be made at a national level in cooperation with states and UTs, infrastructure needs to be ramped up and all Covid-related curbs and appropriate behaviour should be followed.Also Read| Kerala extends lockdown till May 23 amid continuing spike in Covid-19 infectionsAmid the worsening situation in the country, several states including Kerala, Bihar, Maharashtra, Karnataka etc have opted for lockdowns in order to break the chain of transmission. Maharashtra, the worst-hit state from the pandemic, extended its lockdown-like restrictions till 7am on June 1. The state, which is seeing a decline in its daily infections, has so far added 5,309,215 cases and 79,552 deaths.Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan announced on Friday that the ongoing state-wide lockdown will be extended by another week to May 23, owing to the massive rise in cases and deaths. The Bihar government on Thursday extended the lockdown for another 10 days till May 25, after the state started seeing a fall in cases during the previous lockdown which was supposed to end today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-adds-326-098-new-covid-cases-3-890-more-deaths-tally-over-24-3-million-101621048217021.html
15-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: 21 members of Odisha's oldest tribes test Covid-19 positive and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.21 members of some of oldest tribes in Odisha test positiveSome of Odisha’s and India’s oldest tribes, including a few with barely a few thousand surviving members, have reported 21 Covid-19 cases from among their ranks. Read moreIndia set to resurrect '101 squadron' at Hashimara base with 4 more Rafale jetsWith another batch of four Rafale fighters landing at Ambala from Merignac-Bordeaux airbase in France on May 19-20, the Indian Air Force (IAF) is all set to resurrect the 101 “Falcons of Chamb” squadron at Hashimara in West Bengal. Read moreDelhi has no space to bury the young who succumb to Covid-19On Thursday, when 59-year-old Jitender Singh Shunty, a former legislator who has been helping with Covid-19 cremations at the Seemapuri crematorium, held the lifeless body of nine-month-old Krishu, his hands trembled. Read more‘Getting used to climate and pitches’: Hanuma Vihari explains how County stint can help him in WTC final against NZIndian batsman Hanuma Vihari opened up on his County stint with the Warwickshire, stating that it has been a challenging one but was also a good learning experience. Read moreWhen Madhuri Dixit opened up about her independent life in the US after marriage: 'My heart was thumping'Madhuri Dixit, who turns a year older on May 15, set a new bar of success in the 1990s with her movies. Read moreNatasa Stankovic in ₹990 crop top and high-waisted jeans shows the right way to do casual date-night lookNatasa Stankovic has a style sense that is extremely trendy and Gen Z approved. From a crop top and high-waisted pants set to camisole satin dresses, the actor looks good in everything. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-21-members-of-odisha-s-oldest-tribes-test-covid-19-positive-and-all-the-latest-news-101621048517375.html
15-05-2021||India||Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin inspects state's Covid-19 unified command centre in Chennai||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister MK Stalin on Friday inspected State's Covid-19 unified command centre in Chennai to tackle the second wave of the pandemic."I visited the State's COVID-19 unified command centre (War Room) in Tamil Nadu, which monitors and regulates beds, medicine stocks and oxygen.#Covid19 in Tamil Nadu is under control", tweeted Chief Minister.Stalin also took a help seeker call which came on the 104 helpline number and helped the person find a bed at Chennai Rajiv Gandhi General Hospital.On May 12, Tamil Nadu CM, MK Stalin announced ₹25 Lakhs each as compensation for 43 frontline workers and families of government doctors who passed away while carrying their duties during the Covid-19 pandemic. He also announced incentives for frontline staff for April, May and June.Shops selling groceries and meat in Tamil Nadu would be allowed to function only from 6 a.m. to 10 a.m. from Saturday, as part of the Covid-19 lockdown that will be in place till May 24 morning.Tamil Nadu reported 31,892 new Covid cases, 20,037 recoveries and 288 deaths in the last 24 hours, as per the state health bulletin yesterday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-chief-minister-mk-stalin-inspects-state-s-covid-19-unified-command-centre-in-chennai-101621046918670.html
15-05-2021||India||India set to resurrect '101 squadron' at Hashimara base with 4 more Rafale jets||With another batch of four Rafale fighters landing at Ambala from Merignac-Bordeaux airbase in France on May 19-20, the Indian Air Force (IAF) is all set to resurrect the 101 “Falcons of Chamb” squadron at Hashimara in West Bengal even as advance units have already moved into the new base.While the exact date of Rafale landing in India will be determined by availability of mid-air refuellers of the UAE Air Force and weather conditions, it is quite evident that the full deliveries of 36 aircraft will be completed well before April 2022 as announced by Union defence minister Rajnath Singh in Parliament. At the end of May, the IAF will have 24 Rafale fighter jets in India, with another seven kept for training purposes in France and only five more to be handed over before the two squadrons are complete.The last five aircraft may be delivered in the second-half of 2021 as Egypt has placed an order of 30 Rafale fighters.ALSO READ: Rafale weaponry prompts China, Pak to alter defence postureThe home base of second squadron is getting readied at Hashimara with repaved extended runways, ammunition depots, blast pens and personnel accommodation apart from maintenance bays. “The Hashimara air base has been totally revamped and should be operational by end of this month. This will be the peace time location of the aircraft but in war times, the fighters will operate from anywhere in the country as per war plans,” said an Air Marshal.With India likely to buy more front-line fighters to complete the stalled requirement of 126 medium multi-role combat aircraft (MMRCA), the French have not only offered hot engine technology to India but are also willing to jointly develop extended range and capability Hammer air-to-ground missile under the Atmanirbhar Bharat route. French engine manufacturer Safran has already conveyed the offer for jointly developing aircraft engines upto 100 Kilo Newton thrust as well as share the hot engine technology which Indian allies in the west are reluctant to share.ALSO READ: Armed forces use lease route to cut red-tape, stay prepared for adversariesFrance has also offered to share and jointly develop technology for longer range and heavier Highly Agile and Manoeuvrable Munition Extended Range (Hammer) missile which is currently part of the weapons package on the Indian Rafale. With a range of over 70 kilometres, the Hammer weapon can be guided on to the target using GPS, Inertial Navigation and Infra-red seeker with the capability to adjust to target location mid-air using maps for course correction. The latest version of this weapon has a 1,000 kilogram bomb and with laser guidance technology.“The Rafale package is a game-changer in the region as none of India’s adversaries have such capability to wage war beyond visual range,” said an IAF Air Marshal.India ordered 36 warplanes from France (equivalent of two squadrons) in 2016 for ₹59,000 crore under a government-to-government deal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-set-to-resurrect-101-squadron-at-hashimara-base-with-4-more-rafale-jets-101621046121678.html
15-05-2021||India||Covid-19: Odisha govt forms panel to monitor rising cases of Mucormycosis||Concerned over rising cases of Mucormycosis or Black Fungus amongst Covid-19 patients, the Odisha government on Friday constituted a seven-member state-level committee to monitor such cases in the state.The seven-member committee will monitor the incidence of Mucormycosis in patients admitted to different hospitals in the State and formulate a guideline for early detection and management of such cases."In view of the reported rise in the incidence of Mucormycosis (Black Fungus) amongst the Covid-19 patients on Corticosteroids and other immunosuppressive drugs and also amongst patients in the post Covid period in the State, Odisha Government has constituted a State Level Committee", informed an official release.Also Read| In Odisha, 21 tribals from primitive groups test positive for Covid-19The state health and Family Welfare Department has asked all Government Medical colleges in the state to constitute an expert committee each comprising of members from the Department Of Medicine and {or Pulmonary medicine, Dermatology. ENT. Ophthalmology, and neurology (if available)} for coordination of diagnosis and management of such cases.All Government Medical College will create facilities for detection and management of such cases in the Department of ENT and Ophthalmology for RT-PCR negative and or post-Covid patients, The active Covid-19 patients when detected to have Mucormycosis will continue treatment with the support Of ENT and Ophthalmology faculties or consultant.Odisha recorded a sudden surge in Covid-19 cases on Friday as the state reported 12,390 new cases in the last 24 hours, according to the state health bulletin.As many as 10,649 new Covid-19 cases were reported in Odisha on Thursday.The state also recorded 22 Covid-related deaths while 8,665 people recovered from the disease in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-odisha-govt-forms-panel-to-monitor-rising-cases-of-mucormycosis-101621042851417.html
15-05-2021||India||IMD predicts light to moderate rains over Haryana, Rajasthan||The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) on Saturday predicted light to moderate intensity rains over Haryana, Rajasthan and its adjoining areas in the next two hours."Light to moderate intensity rain with wind speed 20-40 kmph would occur over Viratnagar, Kotputly, Alwar, Jhunjunu, Pilani, Rajghar, Laxmangarh, Bayana (Rajasthan), Narnaul, Tizara, Mahendergarh (Haryana) and adjoining areas during next 2 hours", tweeted IMD."Mahendergarh (Haryana) and adjoining areas during next 2 hours", tweeted IMD.Meanwhile, the advance of the southwest monsoon over Indian mainland is marked by monsoon onset over Kerala and is an important indicator characterizing the transition from a hot and dry season to a rainy season, informed a press release by IMD yesterday evening.India Meteorological Department (IMD) has been issuing operational forecasts for the date of monsoon onset over Kerala from 2005 onwards. An indigenously developed state-of-the-art statistical model with a model error of - 4 days is used for this purpose.Also Read| Cyclone Tauktae: NDRF teams deployed in five statesThe 6 Predictors used in the models are; i) Minimum Temperatures over North-west India, ii) Pre-monsoon rainfall peak over south Peninsula, iii) Outgoing Longwave Radiation (OLR) over south China Sea, (iv) Lower tropospheric zonal wind over the southeast Indian Ocean, (v) upper tropospheric zonal wind over the east equatorial Indian Ocean, and (vi) Outgoing Longwave Radiation (OLR) over the southwest Pacific region.In the Indian monsoon region, initial monsoon rains are experienced over south Andaman Sea and the monsoon winds then advance in north-westwards across the Bay of Bengal. As per the new normal dates of monsoon onset/progress, the southwest monsoon advances over the Andaman Sea around 22nd May.At present, a Depression has formed over the Lakshadweep area and neighborhood. It is very likely to intensify into a Cyclonic Storm during next 24 hours. It is very likely to move north-northwestwards and reach the south Gujarat coast in the early hours of 18th May.Also Read| Kerala braces to meet threat of Cyclone TauktaeAs a result, the cross-equatorial south westerlies have temporarily strengthened over the Arabian Sea. The cross-equatorial flow is very likely to strengthen and deepen over the Bay of Bengal from 20th May and a sustained rainfall activity is likely over the South Bay of Bengal and Andaman and Nicobar Islands from 21st May. Hence the monsoon advance over Andaman & Nicobar Islands is very likely around 21st May 2021.However, the past data suggest that there is no association of the date of monsoon advance over the Andaman Sea either with the date of monsoon onset over Kerala or with the seasonal monsoon rainfall over the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-predicts-light-to-moderate-rains-over-haryana-rajasthan-101621042262277.html
15-05-2021||India||New York to send medical supplies to India amid second Covid-19 wave: Mayor||New York Mayor Bill de Blasio on Friday (local time) announced that the city will send essential medical supplies to India as it battles a deadly second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.According to a statement, de Blasio said that New York will tap into its stockpile to send Covid-19 test kits, swabs, ventilators, BiPAP machines, pulse oximeters, and other medical supplies to India."Just over a year ago, New York City was the center of the global pandemic. Now it is our turn to step up and help India in its moment of crisis. We are sending vital medical equipment to India to send a clear message: nobody is in the fight against Covid-19 alone. Together, we can save lives and beat back the pandemic," said the NYC Mayor.Extending his gratitude over de Blasio's decision, Randhir Jaiswal, Consul General of India, said: "We greatly appreciate the generous gift by New York City to the Government of India. The ventilators, BiPAPs and testing kits which have been donated by New York will be immensely useful in fighting the pandemic in India.""The supplies being sent will further add to the robust assistance provided by the US government to India. The empathy shown by this great City is admirable," he added.Meanwhile, a New Yorker, actress and singer Mary Millben told ANI that poor leadership in New York will now cause a longer return to full functionality."My message to India - let hope arise in your hearts. I know these are tough and dark days. But just like Americans, Indians are a resilient people. And that is a true parallel," she said.Known for her rousing arrangements of Indian music, Millben applauded the Biden-Harris administration's efforts to help India amid the Covid-19 crisis.Last month, the United States delivered its first shipment of medical supplies to India including 423 oxygen cylinders with regulators (200 Size D, 223 Size H), 210 pulse oximeters, 184,000 Abbott Rapid Diagnostic Test Kits, and 84000 N-95 face masks.In the second shipment on the same day, the US delivered 17 H-size (large) oxygen cylinders and 7,00,000 Abbott Rapid Diagnostic Test Kits to help the country fight the coronavirus pandemic.Several countries have come forward to help India as the country fights the second wave of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-york-to-send-medical-supplies-to-india-amid-second-covid-19-wave-mayor-101621037300540.html
15-05-2021||India||Elderly woman gang-raped, brutalised in UP||An elderly woman was allegedly gang-raped in Uttar Pradesh’s Kannauj district on Friday morning, police said, adding that she was brutalised by criminals, who broke her jaw and damaged her eyes.Prashant Varma, Superintendent of Police (SP), Kannauj, said the victim, who is around 70 years old, was found in a pool of blood by her grandson. She has been admitted to a hospital in Kanpur, he said.Police have started an investigation, though the family is yet to give any complaint, the SP said, adding that the FIR would be lodged as soon as the complaint was received.According to police, the woman was sleeping outside her house in Manimau while her daughter-in-law and grandson were in the house and her son was in the fields.Police said according to the preliminary investigation, more than five men are suspected to be involved in the crime. They first attacked and snatched the woman’s earrings before taking turns to rape her, police said, adding that fearing consequences, the suspects tried to kill the woman. They assaulted the woman, inflicting injuries in her lower abdomen, police said. Medical examination revealed that her jaw had multiple fractures and one of her eyes was ruptured, police added. The woman has identified the men involved in the crime.Her grandson found her lying in the pool of blood. She was taken to the district hospital in Kannauj with the help of locals. However, doctors at the hospital referred her to a hospital in Kanpur as her condition was critical.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elderly-woman-gang-raped-brutalised-in-up-101621035087413.html
15-05-2021||India||Woman from viral 'Love you Zindagi' video dies of Covid-19||After battling Covid-19 for around 10 days, a woman, who came to be known as the 'Love You Zindagi' girl on Twitter after a video of her swaying to the Bollywood hit while getting oxygen at a hospital went viral, has succumbed to the infection.The doctor treating her on Friday said the woman's family does not want her identity to be revealed.On May 8, Monica Langeh, a doctor at a hospital in Delhi, tweeted a video where the 30-year-old woman, while on non invasive ventilation (NIV), was listening and swaying to the Bollywood song -- Love You Zindagi which featured Shahrukh Khan and Alia Bhatt."It was a stressful situation when she was admitted. There were no beds available at that time. We admitted her in the Covid emergency ward and were managing her."She was given the best treatment possible. Remdesivir and plasma therapy was also given to her. But her condition deteriorated and she did not respond well to the treatment," Langeh said.She was on the ventilator for the last three days and passed away on Thursday night, Langeh said.What struck Langeh about the woman was her fighting spirit and her zest for life."While I was on rounds in the Covid emergency ward, she was playing songs but with a great deal of trepidation. I asked her about her taste in music."Swaying to the music she was listening, she said she liked Punjabi as well as romantic songs. I gave her the hotspot from my phone and she started listening to the 'Love you Zindagi' song and it was then that I made the video," Langeh said.Langeh said she has seen many coronavirus patients, but this woman was different."As soon as patients get to know that they have contracted the virus, they develop anxiety and we have to counsel them a lot. But she was different. She had a strong will power," the doctor recalled.Langeh then helped the woman download a music app from which she would regularly listen to songs. The woman was later moved to the ICU."While she was in the ICU, her family members -- right from the elderly to the young ones -- would send audio messages encouraging her and saying things like -- we are waiting for you and come back soon'. They also told her that they would go out for an outing after she comes back."Her family members were mentally strong and despite knowing that she was in a critical condition and might not make it, they never once made her feel bad," she said.The woman is survived by her husband and five year old child."Her husband was crying yesterday and saying what would he tell his child and how will he face him when the child asks me about his mother? I am shattered. I had developed a bond with her. I have seen patients much more critical than her recovering but it is sad that she couldn't survive," the doctor said.The woman's husband had also contracted the infection but recovered in home isolation.Bollywood actor Sonu Sood, who has been extending help to people during the Covid-19 pandemic, also mourned her demise."So so sad, never ever she would have imagined that she won't be able to see her family again. Life is so unfair. So many lives which deserved to live are lost. No matter how normal our life becomes but we will never be able to come out of this phase," he said in a tweet.Many other celebrities like Suniel Shetty, Gurmeet Choudhary and Anup Soni also reacted to Langeh's post announcing the young woman's passing away.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-from-viral-love-you-zindagi-video-dies-of-covid19-101621035220706.html
15-05-2021||India||Autopsy to confirm lightning as cause of death of 18 elephants||he Assam government on Friday decided to conduct forensic tests on the 18 elephants that allegedly died from lightning strikes two days ago in the Barhampur area of Nagaon district.The bodies of the elephants were buried on Friday after a team of veterinarians conducted post-mortem examinations. Some remains have been sent to the state forensic laboratory in Guwahati for further tests. The incident took place at Bamuni Pahar under Kothiatoli forest range of Nagaon district. The bodies of the pachyderms were found on Thursday.Though the initial inquiry revealed lightning to be the likely cause of the deaths, wildlife experts suspected that mass poisoning could also be a reason as Assam has previously witnessed deaths of elephants due to poisoning -- mostly perpetrated by local cultivators. Rampant and unplanned development in the state’s forest areas have encroached on elephant corridors, increasing man-animal conflict, with herds of elephants sometimes wreaking havoc on agricultural fields and hamlets.“From what we saw, it appears the deaths were caused due to lightning as there were no visible signs of struggle before the elephants died. But the exact cause will be known only after reports of the post-mortem and forensic examinations,” said forest and environment minister Parimal Suklabaidya.The Assam government has constituted a team to be headed by a senior forest officer and seven veterinarians to probe the incident. “The post-mortem reports will be available in a day or two, but we may have to wait a little longer for the outcome of the forensic tests...,” said P Sivakumar, director, Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve.Elephant expert and CEO of Aaranyak, a wildlife NGO, Bibhab Talukdar, said that evidence suggests lightning was the most probable cause of the deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/autopsy-to-confirm-lightning-as-cause-of-death-of-18-elephants-101621027641945.html
15-05-2021||India||Digital divide: More jabs administered in urban districts than in rural areas||The Covid-19 vaccination drive, which was opened to all adults from May 1, has managed to cover significantly more ground in urban districts in India, data analysed from the Co-WIN dashboard shows, strengthening criticism that the digital-only process could be leaving out a large section of the rural population.District wise data provided on the Co-WIN website, analysed by Hindustan Times, shows that doses administered in urban districts were nearly 1.7 times those in rural districts as on May 13.While this divide has persisted in all phases of the vaccination drive – which initially opened for health care workers, followed by frontline workers and people above 60, and then those over the age of 45 – it has particularly widened since May 1, when all adults became eligible for doses. (See chart)India allowed people above 60 to get doses from March 1, and those above 45 from April 1.Also Read | Assam starts special Covid-19 vaccination drive for transgenders. It’s the first in IndiaAs on May 13, the gap between per capital doses in urban compared to rural areas was the widest ever. To be sure, the divide between urban and rural areas has always been higher at the beginning of each phase and reduced over time, which is understandable.In the first thirteen days of the first phase of vaccination – when only health care workers were being vaccinated -- the share of total doses administered in the largely urban districts (where only up to 40% population is rural) was 0.25% compared to 0.18% in rural districts (where more than 60% population is rural). This means that adjusted for their populations, urban areas administered 1.39 times the number of doses of their rural counterparts. The average of this ratio for these first 13 days was also around this number.In the first thirteen days of the 2nd phase that started on March 1, the average of this ratio was 1.51. This average was 1.53 in the first thirteen days after April 1 and is 1.65 between May 1-13.Anecdotal reports about people from cities travelling up to a 100km to rural areas in the state for a vaccine mean that the actual disparity may be higher with many of the doses in centres in rural areas actually being administered to people from neighbouring urban areas.Also Read | The race to get vaccinated – Fastest finger firstThis analysis is based on classification of districts into three broad regions based on share of rural population in them: urban districts or those with up to 40% rural population, mixed districts or those with 40%-60% rural population, and rural districts or those with over 60% rural population. Of the 755 districts on the Co-WIN dashboard, 65 are urban, 93 mixed, and 597 rural.It isn’t just rural districts that have lagged compared to urban districts, but also the mixed ones, although to a lesser degree.According to a government official who did not wish to be identified, the ultimate constraint is the availability of vaccines and not the Co-WIN platform itself. “There are nearly 30 lakh (three million) people registering every day. Since May 1, nearly seven crore (70 million) have registered. If we break down these numbers, with the number of doses being administered per day, then just 3 lakh (300,000) vaccines are being chased by all these registered. This means there are nearly 230 people clamouring for one dose.”The official added that even within the urban population, this was likely to cause a situation where people cannot access the vaccine. “The total monthly production of vaccines in India at present is seven crores (70 million), six for Covishield and one by Covaxin, that means at most 23-lakh (2.3 million) people can be vaccinated in one day.”Defending the government’s decision to make registration mandatory, the official said that without registration, and with walk-ins, the situation could turn worse. “How would the centres manage the crowds if walk-ins were allowed,” the official said.The difference in terms of total doses administered naturally extends to share of people who have received at least one dose. Urban districts, which are home to 13.6% of India’s population, accounted for 19.7% of first doses administered until May 13. Mixed districts, home to 13.6% of population, accounted for just 15.4% of first doses in the same time period (and at least some of these surely went to people from urban areas).Rural districts, home to 73% of India’s population, accounted for only 64.9% of first doses. In this case too, at least some went to people from urban areas.Development economist and IIT professor Reetika Khera said: “The fact that urbanised districts received more than their proportionate share of vaccines does not adequately capture how the rural population may have been squeezed out. Even in the ‘rural districts’, there is no guarantee that doses have been administered to people in rural areas.”She added that a more serious concern is the combination of the lack of doses, vaccination being open to all over 18, and the de-facto removal of walk-in appointments. “This means that the most vulnerable - economically, socially and health-wise - populations will suffer,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/digital-divide-more-jabs-administered-in-urban-districts-than-in-rural-areas-101621027464279.html
15-05-2021||India||61k Covid deaths not counted in Gujarat: Report||The Congress, the main opposition in Gujarat, has demanded an inquiry after a report in a Gujarati newspaper on Friday used data on the number of death certificates issued to claim that the state has seen almost 61,000 excess deaths between March 1 and May 10 compared to the same period last year.Divya Bhaskar reported that local bodies issued 123,871 death certificates between March 1 and May 10, compared to 58,000 in the same period last year. The data was based on disclosures by municipal authorities in 33 districts and eight major cities, the paper reported. The report added that in the same period, death certificates issued by each of the 33 districts for Covid-19 fatalities came to 4,218.The report, which highlights a possible under-reporting of Covid-19 deaths is similar to excess-deaths studies conducted in many parts of the world that showed a rise in accounted deaths during the pandemic.On Friday, Gujarat reported 9,995 new Covid-19 cases and 104 deaths from the infection in the last 24 hours, taking the state’s tally and toll to 735,348 and 8,944 respectively.Also Read | Cases of Covid-linked mucormycosis reported across IndiaThere have been several reports in local Gujarati newspapers about deaths due to Covid being higher than the official figures in several regions. Many of these were based on figures from cremation grounds in the state.State government officials said they were looking into the Divya Bhaskar report, but chief minister Vijay Rupani has previously denied hiding Covid-19 deaths. “The Covid deaths are being recorded as per ICMR guidelines. If a comorbid person dies, there is a committee of experts that decides the primary and secondary causes of death. If it, for instance, finds that the main reason for death was heart attack then such a person may not be counted among the Covid-19 deaths even if he is positive. This system is followed across the country,” he had said.On Friday, Congress’s leader of Opposition Paresh Dhanani demanded an inquiry into the alleged under-reporting of Covid-19 deaths. “The state government should own up responsibility for the high number of deaths and initiate action against officials who have fudged data,” Dhanani said. Congress spokesperson Manish Doshi asked for criminal action against officials responsible.Deputy chief minister Nitin Patel, who also holds the health portfolio and has just recovered from Covid-19, did not respond to several calls and text messages. Principal secretary (health) Jayanti Ravi said she was in a meeting and would speak later. She didn’t take calls later. Office of Gujarat health commissioner, Jaiprakash Shivhare, said he was in meetings. The state BJP office-bearer refused to comment.Dr Chandresh Jardosh, outgoing president of the Indian Medical Association’s Gujarat chapter, however, said that the mismatch is because the state health department deliberately does not include patients with comorbidities in official data. “So, you must have pure Covid-19 without any frills to become an official statistic. I may not die of diabetes despite carrying it with me for 15 years, but my death will be considered a diabetic’s death and Covid becomes incidental,” he said. According to Dilip Mavalankar, director of the Gandhinagar-based Indian Institute of Public Health, “There are guidelines in public health manuals about how to classify a death. If a patient is comorbid but if the situation is aggravated by Covid-19 and dies, it is a Covid death.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/61k-covid-deaths-not-counted-in-gujarat-report-101621027267608.html
15-05-2021||India||Sputnik launched in Hyderabad at ₹995 a dose||On Friday, Dr Reddy’s Laboratories’s chief executive officer Deepak Sapra became the first person in the country to receive the Sputnik V vaccine developed by Russia’s Gamaleya Institute with assistance with the Russian sovereign wealth fund RDIF after it received emergency use authorisation in India on April 13.DRL said in a statement that the jab marked the soft launch of the vaccine in the country. This is the first foreign-made Covid-19 vaccine to be used in India. The vaccine is priced at ₹995.40 per shot in the market, with the possibility of prices coming down further once local production starts.Friday’s dose was one of 150,000 of Sputnik V imported by DRL from Russia on May 1. The Central Drug Laboratory, Kasauli,gave its regulatory clearance for the local launch of the vaccine on May 13. DRL hopes to receive more import consignments in coming months and will work with local manufacturing companies (Gland Pharma, Hetero Biopharma, Panacea Biotec, Stelis Biopharma, Virchow Biotech), which will, starting July, churn out locally made versions of the vaccine. Together, these companies have the capacity to manufacture 850 million doses of Sputnik V in a year although it isn’t clear how many they will manufacture this year.A note put out by the Union government on Thursday said 156 million doses of Sputnik V will be available/produced in India between August and December.The launch of the vaccine will ease some of the pressure on supply of vaccines, which is expected to remain tight for at least the next few months. Some states have had to suspend Phase 3 of the vaccine drive, for people in the 18-44 years age group, on account of unavailability of vaccines.DRL said on Friday that it hopes to receive 36 million doses of Sputnik V in the next few months as part of its contract with RDIF. “Our total commitment contracted from RDIF is 250 million doses of which the initial 15-20% is expected through imports,” DRL’s MV Ramana said in a post-earnings press conference.It wasn’t immediately clear whether the company has struck deals with state governments and private hospitals to sell them imported doses of the vaccine. Once local manufacturing starts, half the output will be sold to the central government and the rest to states and private hospitals.Sputnik V is a two-dose shot (but two unidentical doses unlike other two-dose vaccines) that is 91.6% effective in preventing serious illness. The second dose is a booster shot and the company also has a single dose variant, Sputnik Light with an efficacy of 79.4%. A RL executive told NDTV in an interview that the company is working closely with Gamaleya Institute to launch the vaccine later, conditional to regulatory clearance.In India, the vaccine is being tested by Dr Reddy’s in 1,600 people in a phase 2/3 trial meant as a “bridging study” that all foreign-made pharmaceutical products need to undergo.The second batch of Sputnik V is expected to arrive in India by the end of the week.“The imported doses of the vaccine are presently priced at an MRP of ₹948 + 5% GST per dose, with the possibility of a lower price point when local supply begins. The Company is working closely with its six manufacturing partners in India to fulfill regulatory requirements to ensure smooth and timely supply,” the DRL statement said.Sputnik V is the third vaccine to be given Emergency Use Authorisation in India after Covishield, Serum Institute of India’s local version of the Oxford University -AstraZeneca vaccine and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin.Apart from partnership with Dr Reddy’s Labs, which is also conducting Sputnik V clinical trials locally, RDIF has entered manufacturing partnership with other local companies for its production.Among these companies, Hetero Biopharma received clearance from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) recently to conduct phase 3 clinical trials.India has allowed citizens over the age of 18 years to receive Covid-19 vaccinations beginning May1.“With the rising cases in India, vaccination is our most effective tool in our battle against COVID-19. Contributing to the vaccination drive in India is our biggest priority right now to help Indians be healthy and safe,” said GV Prasad, co-chairman and managing director, Dr Reddy’s.India will be producing at least 50 million doses per month of Sputnik V, over the next couple of months.“India is the leading production hub for Sputnik V. RDIF has reached agreements with the leading pharmaceutical companies in the country (Gland Pharma, Hetero Biopharma, Panacea Biotec, Stelis Biopharma, Virchow Biotech) aimed at production of more than 850 million doses per year,” said RDIF in a statement.To date Sputnik V is registered in 65 countries with total population of over 3.2 billion people.Reuters contributed to this story||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sputnik-launched-in-hyderabad-at-rs-995-a-dose-101621026665762.html
15-05-2021||India||More shallow graves found on Ganga bank||Hundreds of shallow graves were discovered on the banks of the Ganga in two Uttar Pradesh districts, days after at least 800 bodies were found buried in the sand near the holy river in Unnao.The graves triggered panic in the area with many local residents saying they fear the bodies, which are buried around three feet deep into the sand, can be washed into the river if water surges during a high tide.At least 150 corpses have been found floating in the Ganga in Ballia and Ghazipur districts of Uttar Pradesh and Buxar and Patna districts of Bihar, prompting the central government and the National Human Rights Commission to take serious note of the matter.Local residents said they spotted at least 200 graves at Khereshwar ghat in Kanpur district’s Bilhaur, 60 in Chaubeypur and 60 in Shivrajpur. In Kannauj district’s Nanamau hamlet, at least 300 graves were found and Mehndi Ghat saw the discovery of another 200. “There is a tradition of people being buried here but I have never seen so many graves before,” said Ajay Deep Singh Bais, a resident of Kannauj.“I saw people bring the bodies here. There is fear over these burials,” said Gudda Thakur, who lives in Mehndi ghatSubdivisional magistrate (SDM) of Bilhaur, Meenu Rana, went to Khereshwar and recorded the grave site on video on Thursday evening. She refused to comment on the discovery. “The graves came up during the past four weeks and the river beds were never used for burials earlier,” said Piyush Mishra, a former village chief.Kanpur district magistrate Alok Tiwari was not available for comment. Kannauj district magistrate could not be reached for comments.Kannauj and Kanpur districts are about 70km apart. No official commented whether the bodies could belong to Covid-19 patients. According to Hindu customs, young people and those who are not married are buried near the river, though local residents said even elderly people were put to rest in recent weeks.In Unnao, where the district administration ordered a probe into the shallow graves discovered earlier this week, local officials continued to enforce a ban on burying people near the river.On Thurday, the administration had removed and conducted funerals for around 300 bodies, and around 400 more were done on Friday, said sub-divisional magistrate Daya Shankar Pandey.An inquiry was ordered by Pandey into the mass burial and how it went unnoticed, officials said on condition of anonymity.“It has been decided the burial would not be allowed from now on and people would be encouraged to consign the bodies to fire. Anyone not able to afford the cost of wood will be given for free,” said Unnao district magistrate Ravindra Kumar.At each of these places, local residents said personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and body bags were also found, either buried or dumped. In Kannauj’s Mehndi Ghat, people in PPE kits were seen overseeing burials.Unnao administration said it launched an inquiry into discovery of PPE kits and body bags and deployed special teams at ghats and rivers beds.“We would get to the bottom of this and initiate stern action,” Kumar said.Over the past week, at least 150 bodies have been fished out of the Ganga in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, leading to speculation that they could belong to Covid-19 patients whose families were too poor to afford treatment and funerals. The administration has said that testing the corpses was difficult because they were partially decomposed.Of this, 82 bodies were recovered from Buxar district in Bihar, four from Patna, 52 in Ballia district of Uttar Pradesh and 12 from Ghazipur district of UP.Both state governments have tightened vigil along the riverbank even as Bihar has alleged that the bodies floated downstream from Uttar Pradesh, which has denied the charge. Police forces and local administration have urged villagers to not dispose bodies in the river.“Ghazipur administration has capped price of firewood at ₹650/quintal & ‘dom raja’ would not take more than ₹500 for cremating a body. We’re setting up a control room at each crematorium where police personnel & lekhpal would be stationed.” Ghazipur district magistrate MP Singh told ANI on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-shallow-graves-found-on-ganga-bank-101621025406319.html
15-05-2021||India||Logistical issues led to drop in O2 levels in Goa: Govt in HC||Logistical problems, not shortage, were responsible for drop in oxygen pressure at the Goa Medical College and Hospital for six consecutive nights, the state government told the high court on Friday, admitting that the lack of steady supply led to the deaths of several patients and long-term organ damage to others. The Bombay HC at Goa sharply criticised the administration and said the reasons for the deaths — which stood at 75 on Friday — were unacceptable.State health secretary Ravi Dhawan told the court that there were two main logistical issues: attaching fresh cylinders to source of piped oxygen at the hospital, and lack of expert drivers who can manoeuvre a tractor trolley that carries the cylinders.Both these processes could take hours in novice hands and were responsible for the drop in oxygen pressure between 2am and 6am for the past week.The Goa hospital supplies patients through piped oxygen with an outlet and monitor at each bed. The source of the piped oxygen is a manifold or rack of cylinders set atop a trolley that needs to be changed once the cylinders run out. The old trolley is pulled out using a tractor,which is then detached and a fresh one is attached to it, and driven into place.Hospital authorities are now connecting patients to loose cylinders to ensure that the pressure does not drop. “Efforts are already being made to engage services of expert drivers to drive and manoeuvre the tractors for transportation of trolleys from the plant at Corlim to the Goa Medical College,” Dhawan said.Also Read | 15 more patients die at Goa hospital; relatives blame disruption in oxygen supplyThe Goa government has also begun the process of installing a 20,000 litre oxygen tank to ensure that the hospital’s oxygen piping system will no longer rely on cylinder racks. “This tank would be made operational on a war footing,” CM Pramod Sawant said.The high court found the reasons given unacceptable. “Along with power comes responsibility. People cannot die for reasons that we don’t have a driver, technician, we did not get spanner etc,” the court said.“We feel that such logistical problems must be got over at the earliest so that this tragedy of victims gasping for breath in the presence of their near and dear ones and in several cases even dying for want of necessary oxygen supply is arrested at the earliest,” the judges said.Workers at the hospital said conditions had not improved.“For several nights the oxygen levels have been dropping in the GMC. It is those patients who are relying on cylinders who suffer first as there is no one to swap the empty cylinders with full ones. The nurses and doctors are way too burdened to be able to do this,” said Ashley Delaney, a volunteer with the Red Cross and currently assisting at the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/logistical-issues-led-to-drop-in-o2-levels-govt-in-hc-101621024175578.html
15-05-2021||India||In Odisha, 21 tribals from primitive groups test positive for Covid-19||The primitive tribal groups of Odisha in remote habitats who seemed to have escaped the second wave of Covid-19, have now reported 21 infections among them triggering concerns over it spreading to other tribals in the state.Officials said 21 tribals from 8 tribes have tested positive for the virus over the last few days.“The infections have been reported since last month and we are keeping a close watch over their condition. Of the 21, a dozen have so far recovered. All of them were in home isolation and did not require hospitalisation,” said P Arthanari, Project director of Odisha PVTG Empowerment and Livelihood Improvement Programme.The Bondas scattered across 32 remote hilltop villages on in the Eastern Ghats of Malkangiri district are believed to have come to India as part of the first wave of migration out of Africa about 60,000 years ago. They were the first forest settlers in India.Similarly, 4 tribals from the Dongaria Kondh, another particularly vulnerable tribal group, living in Niyamgiri hills of Rayagada district tested positive on Thursday. Officials said the infected tribals from Parsali grampanchayat of Kalyansinghpur block probably came in contact with Covid-19 positive people in some urban market outside their village area.“As they sometimes visit the urban markets we think they may have caught the infection there. We have now started an IEC campaign in the Dongaria Kondh villages to ensure that the disease does not spread. We have been teaching them the importance of wearing masks and maintaining social distance in Kui language,” said Rayagada district collector Saroj Kumar Mishra.The infections among the PVTG have been reported from 8 districts including Sundargarh, which is among the top-5 districts of the state in terms of active Covid-19 cases.Though the Odisha government has not classified the Covid-19 infected people into tribals and non-tribals, senior officials of SC/ST department said many non-PVTG tribals in the state would surely have been infected, but it would not be very high.“We are yet to know how many tribals as a whole have been infected in the second wave. But we guess the numbers would be less than the average in rural areas as tribals maintain social distancing. But we are keeping a close watch,” said Ranana Chopra, secretary of state SC/ST welfare department.Last year, a study by the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Research and Training Institute, a government-run research institute on tribals had found that tribal population in Odisha was largely untouched by the pandemic due to their customary practices of social distancing.Chopra said the state tribal department is now planning to start a 5 year health observatory programme in association with the Indian Council of Medical Research to monitor the tribal health in the state. “The programme would begin this year and keep a close watch on overall health of the tribal population of the state in an integrated manner,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-odisha-21-tribals-from-primitive-groups-test-positive-for-covid19-101621022040845.html
15-05-2021||India||What I saw can’t be described: Dhankhar on meeting people hiding in Assam post polls||West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Friday said the fear he saw in the eyes of people who allegedly fled from north Bengal and took shelter in Assam to escape post-poll violence cannot be described in words. “These people are so terrified that they told me they might be attacked again because I met them. I cannot imagine they are living in such fear. They are facing political vendetta because they opposed the ruling party (in Bengal). I am alerting the government through the media. I will interact with the chief minister,” Dhankhar said in Siliguri after returning from Assam. “There is lawlessness in Bengal,” he added. The governor was supposed to fly to Assam in a Border Security Force (BSF) chopper but the flight had to be cancelled because of bad weather. Dhankhar took a road trip. He was accompanied by the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Cooch Behar Lok Sabha member Nisith Pramanik. Dhankhar visited Assam’s Dhubri district and interacted with Bengal residents who fled from their homes following post-poll violence allegedly perpetrated by Trinamool Congress (TMC) workers. He met inmates of a relief camp in the Ranpagli area and expressed shock and grief at their plight. He assured that efforts would be taken so that they can return to their homes soon. “The governor interacted with the affected people for nearly an hour and inquired about their condition. At present we have 176 people at Ranpagli and nearly 30 more at another camp in the district. While some have returned to Bengal, these people are afraid to go back as their houses had been allegedly burnt. We are providing them food and other basic necessities. They can stay in Assam as long as they desire. If they wish to go back we will facilitate their return,” said Dhubri superintendent of police Anand Mishra. “The state government must uphold the Constitution. These people must be protected and brought back,” Dhankhar said after returning to Siliguri. He also accused a section of the media saying journalists did not report the plight of people. “I will visit all violence-hit districts of Bengal,” he said. Reacting to this, Bengal panchayat minister Subrata Mukherjee said, “He is the only governor who does not adhere to any article of the Constitution. People died on both sides but he is meeting only BJP supporters. He is taking with him BJP MPs and MLAs. Why doesn’t he join the BJP?” Trinamool Congress (TMC) Rajya Sabha member Sukhendu Sekhar Roy demanded Dhankhar’s removal. Bengal BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya defended the governor. “He is being targeted everyday by TMC leaders. This is not a healthy trend for democracy,” said Bhattacharya. On Thursday, Dhankhar faced demonstration by a handful of TMC workers at Dinhata in north Bengal’s Cooch Behar district which he visited to meet alleged victims of post-poll violence despite a strong advisory from chief minister Mamata Banerjee. The two exchanged strongly-worded letters on Wednesday evening. Banerjee accused Dhankhar of violating protocols by planning to visit Cooch Behar without the state’s sanction, while the latter accused the CM of showing no regard for the Constitution. North Bengal happens to be a BJP stronghold although it bagged only 77 assembly seats against the TMC’s 213 in the recent polls. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the saffron camp bagged seven of north Bengal region’s eight seats. In the assembly polls, the BJP won 30 of the region’s 54 seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-i-saw-can-t-be-described-dhankhar-on-meeting-people-hiding-in-assam-post-polls-101621020781160.html
15-05-2021||India||21 members of some of oldest tribes in Odisha test positive||Some of Odisha’s and India’s oldest tribes, including a few with barely a few thousand surviving members, have reported 21 Covid-19 cases from among their ranks, after escaping the first wave of the viral pandemic almost untouched -- raising concern about the spread of disease in vulnerable groups in backward areas.The 21 are scattered across eight tribes, and include two from the Bonda habitations of Malkangiri. All infections hav been diagnosed over the past month.“The infections have been reported since last month and we are keeping a close watch over their conditions. Of the 21, a dozen have recovered. All of them were in home isolation and did not require hospitalisation,” said P Arthanari, Project director of Odisha PVTG Empowerment and Livelihood Improvement Programme.The Bondas, scattered across 32 remote hilltop villages in the Eastern Ghats of Malkangiri district are believed to have come to India as part of the first wave of migration out of Africa about 60,000 years ago. They were the first forest settlers in India.Similarly, four tribals from the Dongaria Kondh, another particularly vulnerable tribal group, living in Niyamgiri hills of Rayagada district tested positive on Thursday. Officials said the infected tribals from Parsali grampanchayat of Kalyansinghpur block probably came in contact with Covid positive people in an urban market outside their village area.“As they sometimes visit urban markets we think they have caught the infection there. We have now started a campaign in the Dongaria Kondh villages to ensure that the disease does not spread. We have been teaching people the importance of wearing masks and maintaining social distance in Kui language,” said Rayagada district collector Saroj Kumar Mishra.The infections have been reported from 8 districts including Sundargarh, which is among the top-5 districts of the state in terms of active Covid cases.“We are yet to know how many tribals as a whole have been infected in the second wave. But we guess the numbers would be less than the average in rural areas as tribals maintain social distancing. But we are keeping a clsoe watch,” said Ranana Chopra, secretary of state SC/ST welfare department.Last year, a study by Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Research and Training Institute, a government-run research institute on tribals found that tribal population in Odisha was largely untouched by the first wave of the pandemic due to their habit of keeping to themselves.Chopra said the state tribal department is now planning to start a five-year health observatory programme in association with Indian Council of Medical Research to monitor the health of tribals in the state. “The programme will begin this year and keep a close watch on overall health of tribal population of the state in an integrated manner.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/21-members-of-some-of-oldest-tribes-in-odisha-test-positive-101621020000058.html
15-05-2021||India||No virtual meetings of House panels possible as of now: RS to Kharge||New Delhi The House committees of Parliament will not be able to meet online amid the raging second wave of the Covid pandemic as the relevant rules have not been amended, a Rajya Sabha communique to leader of the Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge said on Friday. Nearly all meetings of the standing committees have come to a standstill in the past few weeks as lawmakers are unable to come to Delhi amidst the ongoing pandemic. Last week, Kharge appealed to Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu to allow online meetings as many key subjects and issues were pending for discussion. On Friday, the secretariat wrote back saying that the amendments of rules to allow virtual meetings can be taken up only during the next Parliament session. “The issue of confidentiality can be resolved during the session as any amendment to the Rules can be approved by the respective Houses only after the matter is considered by the Rules Committees,” it said. The reply, however, acknowledged that authorities started considering amending rules during the first wave but then the move lost momentum. The letter, signed by a joint secretary, revealed that “in a similar situation during the first wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, Hon’ble Chairman and Hon’ble Speaker (Om Birla) had decided in a meeting that the mater regarding holding of virtual meetings of the parliamentary committees vis-à-vis existing provisions and confidentiality of the proceedings of the committees may be referred to the committee on rules in both the Houses.” “As physical meetings of the Committees were being held regularly, following the guidelines strictly, the matter rested there and the situation had not arisen for considering the matter by the Rules Committees,” the letter added. The communication also suggested that chances of House panels meeting online amid the pandemic were feeble. “The meetings of the committees can be considered shortly once the situation improves for the better,” it said. Opposition leaders rejected this position of the secretariat and made a fresh demand for online meetings. “A wasteful new Parliament building is being constructed in the midst of a national catastrophe, and it is considered an “essential service”. But a simple rule cannot be changed to allow virtual meetings of Standing Committees. Come on Speaker Sir, Chairman Garu!,” tweeted Congress chief whip in the Rajya Sabha Jairam Ramesh. Several key meetings, including the strictly guarded Union cabinet meeting and the PM’s meetings on Covid, are being held digitally for the past several months. Recently, the meeting of the entire council of ministers was conducted online. Authorities, however, pointed out these meetings can be easily held via different platforms, but Parliament has to amend its rule book to allow any deviation from the usual format of MPs gathering at one of the committee rooms to discuss issues, call witnesses or adopt a report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-virtual-meetings-of-house-panels-possible-as-of-now-rs-to-kharge-101621019940601.html
15-05-2021||India||Centre’s vaccine complex in Tamil Nadu seeks bids for production||The central government-owned integrated vaccine complex HLL Biotech Ltd at Chengalpattu, 63km from Chennai, could start producing Covid vaccines in the next six months provided it gets all clearances, a senior company official, who did not wish to be named, said on Friday.The company has started the process to invite tenders for the purpose, he said. Work on the complex started in March 2012 under the UPA-2 government with a capital investment of ₹594 crore. “It’s been wrongly projected that the facility has been lying idle for nine years,” the official said, adding that construction started only in late 2013 and the ground work was completed in 2018.“It could have been completed by 2019 but it has been delayed due to cost escalation. We are in the final stages of completion after which the facility has to go through a WHO GMP (good manufacturing practices) check before it can start manufacturing. We will be ready to start manufacturing vaccines in six months in a phased manner,” he said.The plant, when fully operational, would have capacity to produce one billion vaccines annually, he added.HLL floated an expression of interest in January and was in talks with major and mid-level players, which included pharma companies and biotech groups looking to make an entry into the vaccine market. A tender was floated at the end of March and bids can be submitted till May 31.However, lawyers and political parties said that floating a tender has been used as an excuse and blamed the Union ministry of health and family welfare for the delay.“During a national emergency, where is the question of floating a tender?” said senior advocate and DMK MP, P Wilson. “There are state and central government guidelines (Central Vigilance Commission for Centre and TN Transparency Tender Act 1998) where you can go for a single tender or single source procurement in case of an emergency.”The MP is also appearing in a Madras high court suo moto case regarding Covid-19 preparedness being heard by a division bench comprised of chief justice Sanjib Bannerjee and Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy.“The Additional Solicitor General (ASG R Sankaranarayanan) representing the Centre informed the court on May 10 that the last two times tenders were called, no one had come forward with a bid and that these centres lack the technical know-how to manufacture the two vaccines,” said Wilson. “Since this is a national emergency, you can’t keep on waiting. There is a provision under section 92 of the Patent Act, 1970 which permits the central government to compulsorily license a drug so they don’t need to wait for a player to have a patent right to manufacture the drugs or a vaccine.”On Friday, he wrote to Union health minister Harsh Vardhan to take steps to utilise three vaccine manufacturing centres in Tamil Nadu – King’s Institute at Chennai, Pasteur Institute at Conoor and the Chengalpattu facility – for manufacturing Covid vaccines. One of his suggestions is that Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech be permitted to manufacture Covishield and Covaxin vaccines in these centres.The Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK)’s Villupuram MP D Ravikumar has also written to the Union health minister, saying Bharat Biotech should share its Covaxin technology with Tamil Nadu so that Covid vaccines can be manufactured as these facilities.On April 23, former chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and drew his attention to the Chengalpattu facility which he said is structurally and functionally ready and awaiting commissioning and validation. “I am informed that this would be possible if some pending work can be fast-tracked,” Palaniswami had said in his letter. “I would appeal to you to bring this facility to working condition at the earliest, so as to augment the production of Covid vaccines.”Vardhan visited the facility in January when he was in the state to oversee the dry run for vaccination before it was rolled out. While hearing a PIL that sought the Union health ministry to approve the Chengalpattu facility, the Madurai bench of the Madras high court directed the Centre to reply on the number of government-owned vaccine manufacturing institutes, along with its period of commencement of operation, production capacity and present status, and posted the matter for May 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centres-vaccine-complex-in-tn-seeks-bids-for-production-101621019940096.html
15-05-2021||India||Will supply 19.1 million free vaccines to states, UTs from May 16-31: Centre||The central government will supply at least 19.1 million free Covid-19 vaccine doses to states during the fortnight of May 16 and 31, it announced in a statement on Friday.The allocation is based on consumption pattern and beneficiary load.“The allocation of Govt. of India supplies to the State/UT is decided on the consumption pattern and beneficiary load for second doses during the upcoming fortnight. During the 16th-31st May 2021 fortnight, 191.99 lakh doses of Covishield and Covaxin will be supplied to the States and UTs, free of cost. This will include 162.5 lakh (16.2 million) of Covishield and 29.49 lakh (2.9 million) of Covaxin,” said Union health ministry in a statement.India began implementing the liberalised pricing and accelerated national Covid-19 vaccination strategy from May 1, wherein 50% of the available doses are earmarked for supply to states and Union territories, as free of cost supply from the government of India channel, while the remaining 50% is available for direct procurement from the vaccine manufacturers by states and private hospitals.The delivery schedule for this allocation will be shared in advance, said the Centre while asking states to direct the officials concerned to ensure rational and judicious utilisation of allocated doses and minimise the vaccine wastage.“The basic objective behind informing the States and Union Territories in advance of the quantum of free vaccine doses to be made available from government of India for 15 days is to ensure that they prepare effective plans for judicious and optimum utilisation of these free vaccine doses which are meant for the age group 45 and above, and for health care workers and frontline workers,” the statement further read.In the previous fortnight-- May 1 and 15, a total quantum of at least 17 million (1.7 crore) vaccine doses has been made available by the Centre to all states, free of cost.In addition, a total quantum of at least 43 million (4.39 crore) doses was also available for direct procurement by the states as well as private hospitals this month.“The Centre will continue to support states in vaccinating the vulnerable population group of 45 years and above, health care workers and frontline workers, and for the remaining categories the states and private hospitals are free to directly procure under certain conditions that is to maintain equitable distribution across the country,” said a senior central government official aware of the matter, on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-supply-19-1-million-free-vaccines-to-states-uts-from-may-16-31-centre-101621019880819.html
15-05-2021||India||Bommai turns residence into 50-bed Covid Care Centre||Bengaluru The residence of Basavaraj Bommai, Karnataka’s ministers for home, law and parliamentary affairs, has been converted into a 50-bed Covid care centre (CCC).Bommai is the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator from Shiggaon constituency in Haveri district, about 334 kms from Bengaluru.“The CCC is in the compound of his home in Shiggaon. This is where people can get primary treatment if their saturation comes down since there will be oxygen concentrators kept here. It is also for people who do not have the facility to Covid-19 infected persons who may not have the facility to isolate at their respective homes,” said one member of the minister’s staff, requesting not to be named.Haveri, one of the most backward districts in the state, has seen a surge of Covid-19 infections in the second wave, which has threatened to overwhelm its existing healthcare infrastructure.Haveri reported 292 new infections and nine fatalities in the 24 hours on Friday. The district has 1,817 active cases.The person cited above said that the minister is planning to station private doctors at this CCC. There are no patients in this facility currently. The space, which is the same compound as the minister’s home, is a permanent structure that is often used to conduct political meetings and host other gatherings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bommai-turns-residence-into-50-bed-covid-care-centre-101621019641958.html
15-05-2021||India||Mismatch between oxygen demand and consumption, according to Karnataka govt data||While the state government maintains that its oxygen requirement is more than 1,700 MT, however, data provided by the government shows that the state’s consumption of oxygen for Covid-19 infected persons was around 723.86 kilo litre (KL) on May 9, registering a marginal increase from 700.74 KL recorded on May 6.While the data does indicate a marginal increase, it shows that there is a gross mismatch between the government’s claim on the state’s demand for oxygen and consumption.“(The) Government of India has a norm and as per that norm Karnataka’s requirement is more than 1,700MT. However, a minimum of 1,200MT immediately will help. Especially, if it’s allotted from within Karnataka,” Munish Moudgil, senior IAS officer and nodal officer for oxygen supplies in the state said. The demand for oxygen in Karnataka is in excess of 1,700 MT out of which the Centre has increased its allocation to around 1,015 MT, according to a statement from the chief minister’s office (CMO).While addressing a press meet on Thursday, chief minister Yediyurappa said, “Centre increased our oxygen supply from 965 MT to 1015 MT. We are getting 765 MT within the state. We are trying to get oxygen from other states as well.”“We have got 100 tons from Kuwait, 400 tons from Bahrain and 120 tons from Jamshedpur. We have installed 120 oxygen plants”, the chief minister said.“Under the chairmanship of Dr Devi Shetty, a task force has been formed to tackle the third wave of Covid-19”, the CM said.  According to a a oxygen guidelines document of the state government, released on May 9, the actual supply of oxygen is lower than the allocations. “The oxygen supply quantities have not increased; but the hospitals in the districts & BBMP are increasing their consumption beyond supplies by increasing oxygenated beds. This is the core reason for hospitals running out of oxygen. This is unsustainable. The consumption has to remain within the available supplies,” the guidelines stated.Moudgil said that buffer oxygen stocks (are) being built at each district to handle any unforeseen shortages.While the government continues to demand for a higher allocation of oxygen, the consumption data shows that the state may have more than it requires to deal with the raging Covid-19 pandemic which continues to have a tightening grip on all 30 districts of the southern state and in Bengaluru. “There is a norm in which 20% of the patients will require oxygen, 17% will require ordinary oxygen at the rate of 10 litres per minute, 3% of patients in ICU will require at least 24 litres per minute. So if you calculate it based on the number of active cases it comes to around 1700 MT. That is the normal basis to calculate the demand,” said one senior government official, aware of the developments. The other way to calculate is our minimum requirement demand comes closer to state’s utilisation of around 1250 MT, the official cited above said, requesting not to be named. Officials said that there is an effort to ensure appropriate use of oxygen to avoid wastage. The data comes days after at least 24 lives were snuffed out in Chamarajanagar district, about 175 kms from Bengaluru, after severe shortage of oxygen.The mismatch adds to the growing lack of transparency from the BS Yediyurappa-led government that has been accused of ignoring warnings in November by a state-appointed technical advisory committee (TAC) to increase preparedness for the imminent second wave of infections. The state is also facing severe crunch of oxygenated beds, life-saving medicines and vaccines, which has forced it suspend the inoculation drive for persons in the 18-44 age group as well other groups. “We are consuming around 26 KL per day and we have an allocation of 22KL. We are managing the rest on our own,” said a senior official from the Belagavi district administration, requesting not to be named.The official said that there was no room to create a buffer due to the increasing demand for oxygen amid the raging pandemic. While the positivity and fatality rate remains alarming across Karnataka, it has shown some signs of plateauing in certain regions like Bengaluru. However, there has been a sharp spike in cases in other districts where the healthcare infrastructure is far more inadequate than the capital, leaving it more vulnerable to the rise in cases and challenges accompanying it. The state on Friday recorded 41,779 cases and 373 fatalites while Bengaluru alone registered 14,376 cases and 121 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mismatch-between-oxygen-demand-and-consumption-according-to-karnataka-govt-data-101621019593844.html
15-05-2021||India||Covaxin manufacturing unit likely to be set up in Kolar district: Dy CM||Bengaluru: Karnataka deputy chief minister and head of state Covid task force, Dr C N Ashwatha Narayana, on Friday announced that a manufacturing plant of indigeneous vaccine Covaxin is likely to be set up in Malur industrial area in Kolar district. Speaking to reporters in Bengaluru, Narayana said: “Malur, which is close to the state capital, has a good transport facility, including train services. The government has approved the project and the company is processing the administrative requisites.” Any company engaged in manufacturing another vaccine Covishield will be welcomed and given cooperation, he said in reply to a query. The announcement comes a day after the Karnataka high court expressed concerns over the shortage of vaccines and delay in administering the second dose in the state. The bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar said the state has only 1.1 million vaccines, while there was a need to provide the second dose to at least 3.1 million people.As many as 10.1million people have been vaccinated across the state so far. While 7.36 million have been administered the first dose in the age group above 45 years, 1.73 million have received the second dose in the same category.“As NITI Aayog has informed, there will be a production of 40 crore doses of vaccine in the country in the month of August and this is a positive development. So far, 19 crore doses of vaccines have been administered in the country. The Centre is promoting vaccine companies in all possible ways. The Prime Minister is also negotiating with other countries about relaxation of patent norms with regard to COVID vaccine and if this becomes fruitful, many more vaccine manufacturing plants will come up in the state,” he said. Covaxin is developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research and National Institute of Virology. Covishield, on the other hand, is developed by Oxford-Astrazeneca but manufactured by Serum Institute of India in the country.Besides announcing the manufacturing plant, the deputy chief minister said that in order to combat the second wave and as a preparation to face the possible third wave, every assembly constituency in the state will need to have a 100-bedded hospital with oxygenated and ICU beds and measures have already been initiated to meet this requirement. He also informed that there was a good inflow of Corporate Social Responsibility funds and support for the Chief Minister’s relief fund besides aid from the central government. Senior officer Selva Kumar and CSR, in charge of the state, Uma Mahadevan are monitoring this, Narayana said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covaxin-manufacturing-unit-likely-to-be-set-up-in-kolar-district-dy-cm-101621019593195.html
15-05-2021||India||All 30 districts in state record deaths as Covid rages on||Bengaluru All 30 districts of Karnataka reported at least one Covid-19 fatality in the 24 hours on Thursday, government data shows, indicating the severity of the second wave of infections in the southern state. Out of the 373 fatalities, 121 were in Bengaluru, according to the daily bulletin of the state health department. The mineral-rich district of Ballari, about 320 kms from Bengaluru, reported 26 fatalities while there were 21 in Kalaburagi, 20 in Hassan, 19 in Tumakuru, 15 in Uttara Kannada, 13 each in Ramanagara and Mandya, 12 each in Mysuru and Bengaluru Rural, according to the data. The fatality rate was at 0.89%. The rise in deaths comes at a time when the Covid- 19 infections appear to be moving towards the rural areas of Karnataka, sparking fears of a collapse of the health care system, which is far more inadequate than in Bengaluru. Karnataka registered 41,779 new infections that take its active caseload to 598,605, one of the highest in India. Positivity rate stood at 32.86%, according to the bulletin. Bengaluru recorded 14,316 new infections that take its active caseload to 360,862. The BS Yediyurappa government has been unable to cope with the rising demand for hospital beds, oxygen, life-saving medicines and even space in crematoriums. The state has also suspended its vaccination drive for people in the 18-44 age group due to acute shortage of vaccines. However, the state received Covaxin doses on Friday. “Karnataka received 75,000 doses of Covaxin from Union Govt today. So far state has received 1,10,49,470 doses from GoI incl 99,58,190 doses of Covishield and 10,91,280 doses of Covaxin. I thank PM@narendramodi ji and @drharshvardhan ji for their continued support to Karnataka,” K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s minister for health, family welfare and medical education, said in a post on Twitter. The supply is unlikely to last for long even at the slow pace of vaccinations in Karnataka. There were 56,350 vaccinations done till 3.30 pm on Friday that take the total to 11,051,982, according to the health bulletin. However, 2,396,806 people have received both doses, data shows. The state government said that the second dose for Covishield has been extended to a gap of 12-16 weeks after the first dose. “Government of India has informed that based on the recommendation of National Technical Advisory Group of Immunization (NTAGI) and National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration (NEGVAC), the second dose of Covishield vaccine should be administered to eligible beneficiaries at 12 to 16 weeks interval after receiving the first dose,” the state government said in a statement. “Citizens are requested not to come to vaccination centres if they have not completed 12 weeks after the first dose of Covishield vaccine,” according to the statement. The same is not applicable to Covaxin, the government said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-30-districts-in-state-record-deaths-as-covid-rages-on-101621019520060.html
15-05-2021||India||‘Callousness’: Probe indicts Chamarajanagar hospital, officials for 24 deaths||Bengaluru: The findings of a report on the death of 24 people on May 2 due to lack of oxygen in Chamarajanagar have revealed that apart from the inefficiency from senior hospital staff and district administration, there was an attempt to tamper with documents after the tragedy.The committee of the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority (KSLSA), headed by retired judge of the High Court Justice AN Venugopala Gowda, in its report pointed at the lack of leadership from the dean of Chamarajanagar Institute of Medical Sciences (CIMS), its district surgeon, and a microbiologist, resulted in the failure to efficiently marshal the available resource.The report was submitted before the high court on Wednesday in a sealed document.Apart from the 24 people who died on May 2, another 62 patients died at the hospital between May 4 and May 10 – at least 36 of whom were admitted at the hospital on May 2 night, when the oxygen supply was disrupted for several hours. “The death of these 36 inpatients could be attributed to non-availability of oxygen supply during the night of May 2 and early hours of May 3,” the report said.According to the panel, the deaths could have been averted if authorities had acted on time. “Had the hospital administration been vigilant, it could have had enough oxygen by timely refilling of cylinders. With the bottling plant at a distance of about 70 km, not having sufficient filled oxygen cylinders at Chamarajanagar is an act of callousness and led to the loss of dozens of precious lives,” the report added.The panel found that the truck transporting the oxygen cylinders should have reached Chamarajanagar by 2 am, but instead it stopped at a refilling agency to load another 30 cylinders. It reached the hospital at 6 am on May 3, the report said.Talking about the district administration, the report said the deputy commissioner, Chamarajanagar has not exhibited the dynamism and the leadership qualities expected of a district head in a dire crisis situation. “The Deputy Commissioner of Chamarajanagar, as chairman of the District Disaster Management Committee, miserably failed to guide and supervise the crisis situation arising out of extreme demand for oxygen. On the contrary, he indulged in an unsavoury blame game accusing the District Commissioner of Mysuru of causing hindrance for oxygen supply without any basis,” the report stated.The committee also noted that the district commissioner, Mysuru, did not get in the way of agencies in Mysuru refilling oxygen cylinders of any other districts, including Chamarajanagar.“Cumulatively, the failure of the district administration in general and the hospital authorities in particular, including the Dean of CIMS, is apparent. A detailed probe alone can unearth the acts of omissions and commissions of the concerned individuals for fixing the responsibility,” the report added.The committee in its report pointed out incidents of possible tampering with the records. One of the incidents of tampering was noticed by the committee during the examination of the Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) register. “The examination of LMO register maintained from 29.04.2021 and two oxygen consumption registers maintained by the Bio-Medical Engineer, prima facie reveals that there has been manipulation by tampering of the registers. In the LMO register page No. 3 and 4 are missing,” the report said.Earlier, taking suo motu cognizance of the 24 deaths at two Covid-19 hospitals in a span of 24 hours on May 2 allegedly due to shortage of oxygen, the high court on May 4 had suggested a judicial probe by a retired judge into the matter. The state government had subsequently formed a one-member committee to probe into the matter.The committee report also observed discrepancies in the preparation of the case sheets of the deceased. “The entries in the case sheets, 28 made by one particular doctor and one case sheet by another doctor, appeared to have been made in one go,” the report said. Some factual details were not entered in the case sheets with reference to even the time and date of death, while a number of printed forms were blank, without the particulars of the patient but contained only the signature of the medical officer, the report added.Meanwhile, the Karnataka high court on Thursday sought a response from the state government on paying compensation to the families of those who died in the tragedy. Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar said the state government was liable to compensate the families, and it has to answer two issues raised by the report.First, how will the state government compensate families that have lost their dear ones due to its failure and second aspect of the report is on the government taking a decision on fixing responsibility on individual officers for their lapses, the court asked the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oxygen-shortage-led-to-24-deaths-in-chamarajanagar-report-101621019461104.html
15-05-2021||India||YSRC MP, who criticised CM Jagan Mohan Reddy, held for sedition||YSR Congress lawmaker Kanumuri Raghurama Krishnam Raju was arrested in Hyderabad by Andhra Pradesh’s Crime Investigation Department (CID) on Friday on charges of sedition, disturbing communal harmony and attacking dignitaries of the Jagan Mohan Reddy government, the police said in a statement.A police statement issued after his arrest said a preliminary inquiry against the MP “found that through his speeches on regular basis Mr Raju was indulging in systematic, schematic effort to cause tensions among the communities and by attacking various government dignitaries in a way which will cause loss of faith in the government which they represent”.The arrest comes weeks after Kanumuri Raghurama Krishnam Raju, an outspoken critic of his party chief and Andhra Pradesh chief minister YSR Jagan Mohan Reddy for nearly a year, asked a special CBI special court on April 27 to cancel the bail granted to Jagan Mohan Reddy. He alleged that the chief minister, released on bail in an alleged disproportionate assets case pending since 2012, had been violating the bail conditions. This request is pending before the judge who asked the CBI and Jagan Mohan Reddy to respond to the charge.Raju, who represents Narasapuram parliamentary constituency in West Godavari district, was in Hyderabad to celebrate his 59th birthday on Friday when a CID police led by R Vijaya Paul, additional superintendent of police, Guntur, arrested him.The CID statement said a case had been registered against the MP under Section 124-A (sedition) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), for alleged comments against the Jagan Mohan Reddy government, damaging its reputation and inciting hatred among the people. The police have also invoked Section 153 (b) (making comments causing communal disharmony or affecting national integration) and Section 505 (making statements with public mischief) against the MP.Raju’s son K Bharat told reporters that the CID team forcibly took away his father without disclosing any reasons.“They didn’t even tell us where my father is being taken. How can the cops arrest an MP at a time when the coronavirus pandemic is so severe?” he asked.Bharat said he would file a petition in court against his father’s “illegal arrest”.This isn’t the first time that Raju, a well-known industrialist in the West Godavari district, has gone against Jagan Reddy. Raju quit the party in 2014 after he didn’t get a ticket to contest the Lok Sabha general elections and crossed over to the BJP. He exited the BJP in 2018 and switched to the Telugu Desam Party before returning to the YSR Congress in March 2019 in time for the Lok Sabha elections.Raju was elected to the Lok Sabha but had a falling out with Jagan Mohan Reddy again last year. He was issued a show-cause notice by the party in June 2020. Jagan Mohan Reddy hasn’t suspended him so far but in October last year, it did ask Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla to disqualify him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ysrc-mp-who-criticised-jagan-held-for-sedition-101621018740007.html
15-05-2021||India||Policy update deadline today: Whatsapp says users will not lose features||Mobile messaging service provider WhatsApp said on Friday that its users will not lose functionality on May 15 if they do not agree to their contentious new privacy policy, confirming that it had pushed back its deadline for a roll-out that initially was meant to leave people with no option but to agree with the policy if they wanted to keep using the app.The statement came as reports indicated that the company could gradually put some functionality out of users’ reach, before eventually leaving users with no choice but to delete the app. “WhatsApp continues to provide an important way for friends and family to stay in touch during this difficult time. While the majority of users have already approved our update, no one will lose functionality on May 15 if they haven’t yet and we’ll be sure to provide reminders at a later time,” a company spokesperson said. “We want everyone to know that this update does not impact the privacy of personal messages,” the statement added.On Friday, The Guardian reported that beginning May 15, people will be unable to dismiss the screen asking them to accept the new terms, although they will still be able to receive calls, and reply to messages through notifications. “In time, however, even that will be disabled, leaving users with no choice but to accept the new rules, or delete their accounts entirely,” the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/policy-update-deadline-today-whatsapp-says-users-will-not-lose-features-101621018407809.html
15-05-2021||India||Monsoon may arrive early, to reach Kerala by May 31: IMD||The monsoon is likely to arrive over Kerala on May 31, a day ahead of its normal onset date of June 1, scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said as part of their forecast for the annual summer rain season that is crucial for the country’s farm-dependent economy.The southwest monsoon normally hits Kerala on June 1 and covers the rest of the country by mid-July. The last time monsoon onset was ahead of its arrival date was in 2018, when it hit Kerala on May 29.“This year, the onset of the southwest monsoon over Kerala is likely to be on May 31st with a model error of plus or minus 4 days,” IMD said in a statement on Friday.Earlier this week, private weather forecasting company Skymet Weather also projected an earlier onset date of May 30 with an error margin of +/-2 days.CYCLONE IMPACT?Normally, initial monsoon rains hit south Andaman Sea and monsoon winds then advance north-westwards across the Bay of Bengal. As per IMD, the monsoon typically advances over the Andaman Sea around May 22.This time, a depression over Lakshadweep area that is likely to intensify into a cyclonic storm and move north towards the south Gujarat coast in the next few days has strengthened wind systems over the Arabian Sea. These winds, in turn, may drive initial monsoon advance over Andaman and Nicobar Islands around May 21, a day ahead of normal schedule.Scientists say that although this is a possibility, it does not necessarily affect monsoon onset schedule.“The development of cyclone Tauktae will definitely strengthen cross equatorial flow and help in strengthening monsoon flows. But we cannot link the cyclone with advancement in monsoon onset date directly,” explained OP Sreejith, scientist and head, Climate Monitoring and Prediction Group (CMPG) at IMD Pune.Past data suggests there is no association of the date of monsoon advance over Andaman Sea either with the date of monsoon onset over Kerala or with the seasonal monsoon rainfall over the country, IMD also said in a statement on Friday.However, Skymet Weather said that the onset could be influenced by oceanic conditions in the Arabian Sea and Bay of Bengal, and that the “likely cyclone formation in the Arabian Sea will be consequential for advance of monsoon stream over Indian waters”.“...tropical storm Tauktae will vacate the Indian region by May 22 following which the westerly winds and cross equatorial flow will strengthen over Arabian Sea. This also will be assisted by the MJO (Madden Julian Oscillation) entering Indian Ocean with moderate amplitude. Pre-monsoon showers will be intense and hefty over Kerala,” Skymet Weather said in a statement on Thursday.IMD has been issuing forecasts for the date of monsoon onset over Kerala since 2005 and has developed a statistical model that accounts for an error of ± 4 days for this purpose. The model accounts for six factors to forecast monsoon’s timeline, including minimum temperatures over northwest India, pre-monsoon rainfall peak over south peninsula and tropospheric winds over southeast Indian Ocean among others.IMD said last month that India is likely to see a normal monsoon this year, with rains expected to be around 98% of the long period average (LPA) .The LPA is the average rainfall -- 88 cm -- recorded from 1961 to 2010. IMD considers rainfall between 96% to 104% of LPA to be in the “normal” range for the country.The monsoon season is crucial for summer crops and brings about 70% of India’s annual rainfall. Adequate monsoon rain affects farm produce, and is a lifeline for about 60% of the country’s net cultivated area that relies on annual showers for irrigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-may-arrive-early-to-reach-kerala-by-may-31-imd-101621018560006.html
15-05-2021||India||Odisha transfers aid of ₹920 crore to accounts of farmers hit by Covid-19 induced lockdown||As lakhs of small and marginal farmers in Odisha face uncertain times due to the Covid-19 induced lockdown, the state government on Friday transferred of ₹920 crore to the bank accounts of 42 lakh farmer families in Odisha under the Krushak Assistance for Livelihood and Income Augmentation (KALIA) scheme, its flagship farmer welfare scheme.The assistance of ₹920 crore includes ₹556.64 crore given by the Centre under the PM Kisan scheme for Kharif-2021. Since 2020-21, the KALIA scheme has been merged with the PM-KISAN programme with the Centre giving ₹6000 a year to small and marginal farmers annually while the state provides ₹4,000 a year.Chief minister Naveen Patnaik said though the state is currently facing the second wave of Covid-19 and undergoing lockdown, there are no restrictions for agricultural activities. The farmers can carry out agricultural activities with adherence to Covid-19 guidelines.Under the scheme, financial assistance is provided to small and marginal farmers so that they can purchase inputs like seeds, fertilizers, pesticides and use assistance towards labour and other investments.This apart, financial assistance is provided to each landless agricultural household for agriculture allied activities like small goat rearing unit, mini-layer unit, fishery kits for fisherman, mushroom cultivation and bee-keeping, etc.Vulnerable cultivators and landless agricultural labourers will get financial assistance of ₹10,000 per family per year to enable them to take care of their sustenance.The assistance is also likely to help lakhs of dairy farmers who have been left high and dry by the two-week long lockdown. The Odisha State Cooperative Milk Producers’ Federation Limited, the apex body of milk producers and other cooperative unions, has reduced its milk procurement from 5.45 lakh litres a day to 3.75 lakh litres a day during the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-transfers-aid-of-rs-920-crore-to-accounts-of-farmers-hit-by-covid-19-induced-lockdown-101621018081798.html
15-05-2021||India||‘Lawlessness in Bengal’: Governor visits violence victims in Assam camps||West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Friday said the fear he saw in the eyes of people who allegedly fled from north Bengal and took shelter in Assam to escape post-poll violence could not be described in words.“These people are so terrified that they told me they might be attacked again because I met them. I cannot imagine they are living in such fear. They are facing political vendetta because they opposed the ruling party (in Bengal). I am alerting the government through the media. I will interact with the chief minister,” Dhankhar said in Siliguri after returning from Assam.“There is lawlessness in Bengal,” he said.The governor was scheduled to fly to Assam in a Border Security Force (BSF) helicopter but the flight had to be cancelled because of bad weather. Dhankhar took a road trip. He was accompanied by the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Cooch Behar Lok Sabha member Nisith Pramanik.Dhankhar visited Assam’s Dhubri district and interacted with Bengal residents who fled their homes following post-poll violence allegedly perpetrated by Trinamool Congress (TMC) workers. He met inmates of a relief camp in the Ranpagli area and expressed shock and grief at their plight. He assured that efforts would be made so that they could return to their homes soon.“The governor interacted with the affected people for nearly an hour and inquired about their condition. At present we have 176 persons at Ranpagli and nearly 30 more at another camp in the district. While some have returned to Bengal, these people are afraid to go back as their houses had been allegedly burnt. We are providing them food and other basic necessities. They can stay in Assam as long as they desire. If they wish to go back we will facilitate their return,” said Dhubri superintendent of police Anand Mishra.“The state government must uphold the Constitution. These people must be protected and brought back,” Dhankhar said after returning to Siliguri. He also blamed a section of the media, saying that journalists did not report the plight of people. “I will visit all violence-hit districts of Bengal,” he said.Reacting to this, Bengal panchayat minister Subrata Mukherjee said, “He is the only governor who does not adhere to any article of the Constitution. People died on both sides but he is meeting only BJP supporters. He is taking with him BJP MPs and MLAs. Why doesn’t he just join the BJP?”Trinamool Congress (TMC) Rajya Sabha member Sukhendu Sekhar Roy demanded Dhankhar’s removal.Bengal BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya defended the governor. “He is being targeted everyday by TMC leaders. This is not a healthy trend for a democracy,” said Bhattacharya.On Thursday, Dhankhar faced a demonstration by a handful of TMC workers at Dinhata in north Bengal’s Cooch Behar district which he visited to meet alleged victims of post-poll violence despite a strong advisory from chief minister Mamata Banerjee.The two exchanged strongly worded letters on Wednesday evening. While Banerjee accused Dhankhar of violating protocols by planning to visit Cooch Behar without the state’s sanction, the latter accused Banerjee of showing no regard for the Constitution.North Bengal happens to be a BJP stronghold although it bagged only 77 assembly seats against the TMC’s 213 in the recent polls. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the saffron camp bagged seven of the north Bengal region’s eight seats. In the assembly polls, the BJP won 30 of the region’s 54 seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lawlessness-in-bengal-guv-visits-violence-victims-in-assam-camps-101621017780543.html
15-05-2021||India||Veteran journalist AR Wig dies of Covid at 81||Veteran journalist AR Wig, 81, a former senior editor at Hindustan Times, died on Friday morning due to Covid-19 related complications at the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality hospital.An ace crime reporter early in his career, Wig worked with Hindustan Times for over four decades until his retirement as a coordinating editor in 2007. He joined HT in the early 1960s, and was appointed Metro Editor in 1984.As the head of the newspaper’s metro section, he led the coverage of the Capital’s most important issues, and mentored several young journalists.He also wrote a popular column, Take it from Me.Wig, who lived in south Delhi’s Vasant Enclave, was the president of the Press Club of India between 2004 and 2005.“Mr. Wig was the lighthouse of the Press Club of India. He was an institution unto himself. In his passing, we have lost a guardian,” PCI said in a statement.Wig’s wife Indira, a school teacher, died in 2011. His younger son, Tarun died in September last year.Wig’s elder son, Ashish Wig, who lives in the US, said, “He was a lion who had all traits of a good leader. He remained very active. He taught journalism and mentored so many journalists.”The Indian Women’s Press Corps also issued a statement in honour of the veteran journalist: “IWPC condoles the demise of veteran journalist, AR Wig. A mentor to many prominent journalists, Wig Saheb was also Press Club of India president.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/veteran-journalist-ar-wig-dies-of-covid-at-81-101621017479997.html
15-05-2021||India||Karnataka reports deaths in all 30 districts as Covid-19 surge moves to rural areas||All 30 districts of Karnataka reported at least one Covid-19 fatality in 24 hours on Thursday; data shows, indicating the severity of the second wave of infections in the southern state. Out of the 373 fatalities, 121 were in Bengaluru, according to the daily bulletin of the state health department. The mineral-rich district of Ballari, about 320 km from Bengaluru, reported 26 fatalities while there were 21 in Kalaburagi, 20 in Hassan, 19 in Tumakuru, 15 in Uttara Kannada, 13 each in Ramanagara and Mandya, 12 each in Mysuru and Bengaluru Rural, according to data. The fatality rate was at 0.89%. The rise in deaths come at a time when the Covid- 19 infection appears to be moving towards the rural areas of Karnataka, sparking fears of a collapse of the healthcare system which is far more inadequate than in Bengaluru. Karnataka registered 41,779 new infections that take its active caseload to 5,98,605, one of the highest in India. The positivity rate stood at 32.86%, according to the bulletin. Bengaluru recorded 14,316 new infections that take its active caseload to 360,862. The BS Yediyurappa-led government has been unable to cope with the rising demand for hospital beds, oxygen, life-saving medicines and even space in crematoriums. The state has also suspended its vaccination drive for people between 18-44 years of age due to acute shortage of vaccines. However, the state received a short supply of Covaxin on Friday. “Karnataka received 75,000 doses of Covaxin from Union Govt today. So far state has received 1,10,49,470 doses from GoI incl 99,58,190 doses of Covishield and 10,91,280 doses of Covaxin. I thank PM@narendramodi ji and @drharshvardhan ji for their continued support to Karnataka,” K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s minister for health, family welfare and medical education said in a post on Twitter. The supply is unlikely to last for very long even at the slow pace of vaccinations in Karnataka. There were 56,350 vaccinations done till 3.30 pm on Friday that takes the total to 11051982, according to the health bulletin. However, only 23,96,806 people have received both doses, data shows.The state government said that the second dose for Covishield has been extended to a gap of 12-16 weeks after the first dose.“Government of India has informed that based on the recommendation of the National Technical Advisory Group of Immunization (NTAGI) and National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration (NEGVAC) the second dose of Covishield vaccine should be administered to eligible beneficiaries at 12 to 16 weeks interval after receiving the first dose,” the state government said in a statement. “Citizens are requested not to come to vaccination centres if they have not completed 12 weeks after the first dose of the Covishield vaccine,” the statement read. The same is not applicable to Covaxin, the government said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-reports-deaths-in-all-30-districts-as-covid-19-surge-moves-to-rural-areas-101621017240769.html
15-05-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccine: Over 1 million receive second jab as Delhi stares at shortage||Over a million people in the national capital have been completely vaccinated against Covid-19 as on Friday, even as most inoculation centres remained shut on the day on account of Eid-Ul-Fitr.Government data shows that so far, Delhi has administered 4.37 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccines. Of these, over one million were second doses, which means the recipients have completed their two-jab regimen of the Covid-19 vaccine.Meanwhile, the city continued to run its inoculation programme for the 18-44 age group with only Covishield doses, with stocks of Covaxin running out on Thursday.As on Friday, the Delhi government had 346,000 doses of vaccine left, all of them Covishield jabs.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverage“Covaxin stock for the 18-44 years beneficiary group is over and the Covishield stock for this group should last another eight days. This has led to temporary suspension of around 140 vaccine centres. We have urged the central government to intervene in this regard and ensure that Delhi gets supply of Covaxin at the earliest. A large number of beneficiaries also have their second doses scheduled now. They have to be vaccinated,” said AAP legislator Atishi while reading out the Delhi government’s vaccine bulletin on Friday.The Capital will need a total of 30 million doses to inoculate its 15 million adult population, according to state government estimates.Delhi is also staring at a shortage of vaccines for those aged 45 and above.“We have a stock of 225,110 doses for this age group. The Covaxin stock should last for three days, while Covishield will last two. More doses are expected to arrive soon for this category, especially Covishield,” said Atishi on Friday’s vaccine bulletin.There was no clarity on when the Covishield doses are likely to arrive.Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Friday said India should float tenders for vaccines in the global market as one nation, instead of asking states to go for it in individual capacity, reiterating a request made by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal a day earlier.“India is one nation, and one tender policy should be implemented, rather than a state-wise tender which will only create more confusion and heat between states which are going to procure vaccines. A state-wise tender will also put India in a bad light. Like there is one Indian embassy in each country, there should be one tender for the procurement of vaccines from this international market,” said Jain in a separate press briefing.He further said, “Nonetheless, I believe that India has the most renowned vaccine manufacturers in the world. I am aware of at least 30 prominent companies who have the capacity to prepare them if they are given the required formula from the makers of Covishield and Covaxin. The centre itself is an owner of Covaxin, and may submit the formula to other companies so that they are equipped to make the vaccines by themselves. At the same time, the centre has exported nearly 6.5 Cr vaccines to various countries. Now, they are asking us to purchase them from these international markets, which is quite strange and uncanny.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-a-million-people-in-delhi-fully-vaccinated-against-covid-19-but-stocks-fast-running-out-govt-101621017121301.html
15-05-2021||India||Delhi has no space to bury the young who succumb to Covid-19||On Thursday, when 59-year-old Jitender Singh Shunty, a former legislator who has been helping with Covid-19 cremations at the Seemapuri crematorium, held the lifeless body of nine-month-old Krishu, his hands trembled. Over the past two months, since the second wave of the pandemic hit the national capital, he has helped cremate over 2,000 infected dead, but Krishu’s body, barely weighing eight kilos, was the heaviest he has had to carry.Krishu was the second infant to be buried at the Seemapuri crematorium in the span of two days. On Wednesday, five-month-old Pari, who was also Covid-19 positive, was buried at the same crematorium.“In the past 15 days, we have received the bodies of three infants and one of an unborn child. We generally do not cremate the bodies of children -- we either bury them or let the river carry them away. But amid this severe wave of the pandemic, there is fear that the infection would spread if infant bodies are set afloat in the river,” Shunty said.Based on observations from hospital admissions, medical experts the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic is taking a toll on children, with several hospitals seeing more children -- some as young as a month old -- being admitted with the viral infection. While there were few children being admitted to the hospital in the first wave, the admissions this time around are more, the experts said.In fact, nearly 50% of children surveyed during the fifth round of the serological survey in Delhi, which was conducted in January 2021, were found to have antibodies against Covid-19, suggesting that children are as exposed to the infection as adults.Shashank Shekhar, Krishu’s father, said his only child tested positive for Covid on Monday and was admitted to east Delhi’s Guru Teg Bahadur (GTB) Hospital on Tuesday, after his blood oxygen levels dipped to 31 (the optimum is 90% or above). He died on Thursday. Krishu’s mother had tested positive 18 days ago and the child may have caught the infection from her, he said.A day before that, five-month-old Pari had succumbed to pneumonia and cardiac arrest, triggered by Covid, at the GTB hospital. Shaheed Bhagat Singh Sewa Dal volunteers, who work at the Seemapuri cremation facility, said the bodies of Krishu and Pari are buried side by side in a vacant space near the cremation platforms.Vacant space, to bury the very young, is what the city lacks at present. With the river mostly carrying away the bodies of children, the city has never had to make provisions for infant burials and that, too, multiple burials at a time or in the space of a few days, say managers of cremation facilities.The larger crematoriums such as the Nigambodh Ghat and the Ghazipur facility have no provision to take bodies of infants.“We do not take the bodies of infants and children, even of those infected by Covid. We do not have the provision or the space to accommodate them. Also, there is no separate protocol for the last rites of children affected by coronavirus,” said Suman Gupta, general secretary of the Nigambodh Ghat Sanchalan Samiti, the body that manages the Nigambodh Ghat crematorium.The three municipalities, which are responsible for the cremation facilities in Delhi, are now looking at options to dedicate space for infant burials.“It has come to our notice that there is no space to bury the young, who succumb to Covid-19. We have scheduled a meeting with officials of the north corporation (North Delhi Municipal Corporation) on Monday to discuss land that can be dedicated for such burials,” said Jai Prakash, north Delhi mayor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-has-no-space-to-bury-the-young-who-succumb-to-covid-101621017119939.html
15-05-2021||India||As Covid second wave persists, MGNREGS comes to rural India’s rescue, yet again||The Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) has witnessed the sharpest year-on-year increase in employment generation in its history in April 2021, government data shows, in a sign that the second Covid wave has caused major reverse migration adding to rural economic distress.According to rural development ministry data, around 22 million households have got work under the job guarantee in the month of April 2021, which is almost double the number of homes getting work in April 2020.To be sure, NREGS was suspended in several states in the first fortnight of April 2020 due to a national lockdown. But even if one compares data from mid-April 2020 (when NREGS resumed in full swing across India) to May 12 last year with data for the corresponding period this year, the surge in demand indicates that economic distress in rural areas has returned, with close to 80% of India closed due to lockdowns imposed by state governments as Covid cases surged in second part of April and first week of May.The job guarantee law provides for minimum 100 days of work in a year but not more than 10% of the households enrolled get that amount of work. The average is 40 to 50 days in a year. The Centre is 2020-21 provided ₹115,000 crore for the scheme.The pandemic and jobsSome studies on efficacy of MGNREGS during pandemic in the past one year have shown that the world’s biggest job guarantee scheme has provided an economic cushion of up to ₹22,000 to every poor households able to get up to 100 days of work.Unlike the pre-pandemic period, the rural development ministry’s data showed that employment under NREGS remained high throughout 2020-21 financial year, even though the peak was close to 35 million households getting work in May and June of 2020. On average, the ministry data showed, 22 million households every month got work from July 2020 to March 2021.Also Read | Origins of Covid-19 need to be investigated further, leading scientists sayIn pre-pandemic era, the highest employment generated under the scheme used to be in months of April to June and lowest during the rainy season (July to September). The monthly average for April-June in financial year 2018-19 was 22 million households, and during rainy season, it came down to 14 million households per month. The only exception was during drought when the states increased employment from 100 to 150 days.The ministry’s data also shows that 18.1 million new households got job cards during the pandemic hinting that some of the people, who had returned from cities to villages during the first Covid wave, never returned to urban areas. Most of the new jobs cards were issued in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Odisha, West Bengal and Rajasthan, states having high work related migratory population.“The data clearly shows that many people in rural India continued to suffer from the pandemic trauma even months after the first wave subsided and work re-started in cities. They were not willing to go back and joined NREGS,” said MS Raunaq, who works with the People’s Action for Employment Guarantee (PAEG), a group of activists and academics working to monitor implement of NREGS since 2004, when the law was approved.Nikhil Dey of Mazdoor Kisan Shakti Sangathan said all data and studies have shown that NREGS proved to be the lifeline for the poor and deprived during pandemic. “On an average, a family got ₹22,000 a year which was a big cushion in absence of any other employment avenue,” he said.Over 70 million households got work under the scheme in 2020-21 financial year and 72,000 households got 100 days of work, ministry’s data shows.Across states, a spike in demandUnlike the 2020 lockdown, when even industries were closed, the 2021 version has factories functioning. Despite that, a large number of workers from cities have returned, a reason for the spurt in NREGS employment.“The only plausible reason for spurt in NREGS work demand in April-May period, which is also a harvest season in most parts of India, is return of workers from cities,” said Nikhil Dey.Reetika Khera, a development economist with the Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi, said this period sees reverse migration because many return to harvest their crops and then go back to cities for work by June-end after sowing the next crop. Because of lockdown in Maharashtra and a spurt in Covid cases in Gujarat, a large number of workers from there returned in the last week of March and April first week and that trend is getting reflected to some extent in the data, experts say. Unlike 2020, the states don’t have any data on the migrants who have returned.The rural development ministry’s data shows that there is 10% more demand for work this year as compared to last year, which witnessed highest ever work demand in 15-year of MGNREGA that was implemented in 2005.In Uttar Pradesh, a northern state seeing an increase in work demand, officials said, the spike was on the expected lines. The number of households that demanded work in April 2021 was 1,092,470, of which work was provided to 675,118 households. In May, 275,084 households have demanded work. “If there an unexpected surge, we would allocate more work to NREGS workers,” said a rural development department official.In another high migrant worker flow state, Bihar, there is a 100% increase in NGREGS work demand in April 2021 as compared to April 2020. “In April this year, about 23.7 million mandays were created as compared to 12.2 million mandays in the same period last year,” said CP Khanduja, director-cum-commissioner, NREGS. Bihar’s labour resources minister Jibesh Kumar added that the government was committed to provide jobs to all skilled and unskilled workers in the state. “Steps have been initiated in this regard,” he added.In Madhya Pradesh, which saw a large number of workers returning from Maharashtra, Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh in March-April this year, there is a 15% increase in NREGS work demand. Panchayat and rural development principal secretary, Umakant Umrao, said, “Active NREGS workers in MP are at an all-time high. Most of the active workers belong to districts where a large number of people migrate to other states.” He added that most of them are being engaged in community work.Safety valve, but unfinished projects There is also a flip side to the NREGS story in the pandemic. According to the ministry data, only 19.49% of the works taken up in 2020-21 financial year could be completed, which is the lowest work completion rate in the last decade of the scheme.Also Read | India receives shipment of ventilators, Remdesivir from European UnionThe rate fell from 96.89% in 2018-19 to 65.32% in 2019-20 to less than 20% in last fiscal, which officials said shows poor monitoring at the state level for works undertaken. The work completion rate was 6% in UP, 9% in Assam and 11% in Odisha. Rajasthan had highest rate of 74%.“Many states have promised to improve the work completion rate this year,” a ministry official said, adding that in the pandemic, providing succour to the poor through work was a priority.Dey said some states had to stop works in between as the workers enrolled under NREGS returned to cities when the situation improved in months of October-November. “Also, there was delay at panchayat level in providing work completion certificate,” he added.Is there a fund crunch? An official of West Bengal government, requesting anonymity, said the Centre’s decision to cut the allocation for NREGS by 30% in the budget for 2021 as compared to money provided in 2020-21 fiscal year shows the government’s intention of reducing employment under the scheme. “We are facing problem in paying wages of NREGA workers regularly. Efforts are on to pay wages for April month from our own resources as Centre is yet to release advance funds,” he said.However, the rural development ministry officials said money will not be a constraint as NREGS is a demand driven scheme, to which the Centre is committed to provide funds for the work generated. The ministry has already increased the budget of person days of work from 335.7 million days for April to 799.4 million days for May, an increase of 140%. In May, 2020, the ministry had provided for 676.3 million days.(With inputs from bureau in Patna, Lucknow and Bhopal)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-covid-second-wave-persists-mgnregs-comes-to-rural-india-s-rescue-yet-again-101620976797618.html
