18-05-2021||India||Gavi hopeful Serum Institute will resume supplies for COVAX by 3rd quarter||The backers of the COVAX facility, created to deliver Covid-19 vaccines to low-income countries, said on Tuesday that they are in contact with the Indian government and the Serum Institute of India (SII) on the resumption of vaccine supplies by the third quarter of the year.The WHO-backed COVAX facility’s plans to roll out hundreds of millions of doses of vaccines to scores of countries that have been hit by a slowdown in vaccine deliveries from the SII as the Indian government shifted focus to tackling a massive surge in Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infections.SII CEO Adar Poonawalla said on Tuesday that the firm hopes to “start delivering [vaccines] to COVAX and other countries by end of this year”. He acknowledged that as part of global alliances, the SII had commitments to COVAX so that it could distribute vaccines around the world.Responding to the statement from SII’s CEO, a spokesperson for Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, which is the co-lead for the COVAX facility, said, “We remain in regular and close contact with both the [Indian] government and SII, and remain hopeful that deliveries could resume, in reduced quantity, in the third quarter.”COVAX extends its “full support and friendship to the people of India, and to the government as it battles this latest terrible surge of the virus,” the spokesperson said.The spokesperson added that COVAX is hoping to conclude agreements with new suppliers and cooperate with countries with the largest supplies of vaccines so that doses can be delivered where they are needed the most.“COVAX’s first priority at the moment, alongside raising the necessary financial support from donors to fully fund the Gavi COVAX Advance Market Commitment (AMC) and procure 1.8 billion doses for lower income countries and finalising agreements with new suppliers, is to work with governments with the largest supplies to urgently deliver them, through COVAX, to countries where they can have an immediate impact in addressing this short-term supply disruption,” the spokesperson said.An agreement between Gavi and SII specified that the Indian manufacturer would supply 1.1 billion doses of either the AstraZeneca or the Novavax vaccine, with 200 million doses committed and the rest on option.COVAX had expected more than 100 million doses from SII between February and May, excluding supplies for India, but has received a little more than 18 million doses. COVAX’s total vaccine shortfall is estimated to be 140 million doses by the end of May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gavi-hopeful-serum-institute-will-resume-supplies-for-covax-by-3rd-quarter-101621362014110.html
18-05-2021||India||‘It’s reckless’: Retd scientist moves SC against Pinarayi Vijayan’s oath event||A retired scientist on Tuesday moved the Supreme Court against Pinarayi Vijayan’s swearing-in ceremony later this week, asking the top court to stop the “reckless act” by the Left government in Kerala at a time the lockdown is being strictly enforced across the state and common man is forced to remain at home. “The politicians and those sitting in power have been repeatedly flouting lockdown norms and making farce appeals to people not to participate in their functions and seeking physical distancing, which is a clear instance of ‘the fence grazing the crops’, which warrants a positive interference of this Court,” M Shajahan, a retired scientist and a public policy activist said in a petition filed in the top court.Pinarayi Vijayan is scheduled to be sworn-in as chief minister on Thursday, the first in 40 years to get a second consecutive term. He has planned the ceremony at Thiruvananthapuram’s central stadium on Thursday and relaxed the rule that bars public gatherings of more than 50 people. The state government intends to accommodate nearly 500 guests at the venue.Pinarayi Vijayan has rejected criticism that the event could spread the coronavirus disease, saying 500 was not such a huge number in a stadium which has a capacity of 40,000. Besides, he has argued, all participants will have to carry Covid-negative reports.M Shajahan’s petition drafted by advocate Usha Nandini called it a reckless act.“The reckless act of conducting the public swearing-in ceremony by the Government of Kerala in violation of the very same law and protocols, which it forcibly enforces on the public, is a clear abuse of power and would only result is further spread of the dreaded disease, putting the life of the people of Kerala in jeopardy.”The petitioner demanded the ceremony be called off or allow it at Raj Bhavan with not more than 75 people in attendance.Covid-19 cases in the state are peaking with the state reporting nearly 50,000 cases daily. To arrest the surge in infections, a triple lockdown is in place till May 23 in four districts including Thiruvananthapuram, the venue for the swearing-in ceremony. “The Government of Kerala which on one end is enforcing lockdowns and forcing common public to confine themselves to the four walls of their homes, giving up their livelihood and other pleasures, is on the other hand spending huge amounts from the State Exchequer, for organizing a super spreader public event to show its strength and celebrate its victory in the recently held election,” the petition added.This is the second time in a week the government has relaxed restrictions to accommodate large gatherings. On May 14, 300 persons were allowed to attend the homage ceremony of former Kerala minister KR Gowri Amma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/its-reckless-retd-scientist-moves-sc-against-pinarayi-vijayan-s-oath-event-101621361774570.html
18-05-2021||India||Data reveals Karnataka Police lost almost one cop daily to 2nd wave of Covid-19 pandemic||In 43 days between April 1 to May 13, amid the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic, Karnataka Police lost 41 personnel to the viral infection, documents accessed by Hindustan Times stated. The latest among the deaths in the force is a 28-year-old police sub-inspector who was seven months pregnant. Shamili, a police inspector attached to the Dakshina Kannada police department died on Tuesday while undergoing treatment for Covid-19. According to the Superintendent of Police, Rishikesh Sonwane, she was undergoing treatment at the RM Jalappa Hospital in Kolar. “She was seven months pregnant. Due to pregnancy, she was not vaccinated,” he said. Shamili was the youngest police officer to die from Covid-19 in the second wave. A closer look at the document shows that in the second wave, out of the 41 police officials who died, four were under the age of 35 and 27 of them didn’t have any comorbidities. According to the internal document of the police department, a copy which is available with Hindustan Times, 4,203 policemen contracted the virus in 41 days, which comes to about 4% of the total police force. Out of these 4,203 policemen, 1,508 are currently infected with the virus. In the second wave, a maximum number of Covid-19 cases among police personnel were reported in Bengaluru (1,439), followed by Mysuru (257) and Tumkur (216). Ballari, Kalburgi, Hassan police departments reported 148, 140 and 123 cases respectively. Bengaluru Police reported the highest number of deaths. Out of the 41 deaths among police personnel, 13 were reported in Bengaluru. State police chief, DG and IGP Praveen Sood told HT that because of vaccination, they have been able to control the number of cases and fatalities in the second wave. “In the first last year, we lost 103 police officials and more than 9,600 policemen and women were infected. However, this time, we have made an effort to ensure that the entire department is vaccinated,” said Sood. According to Sood, out of the 87,917 police officials in the state 96% (84,917 police personnel) have received the first dose of the vaccine, while 82% (72,648 police personnel) have received the second dose. Out of the remaining 2,993, 2,557 are medically unfit for vaccination and 436 personnel are yet to get the vaccine. The state police chief admitted that among those who are yet to receive the vaccine, some have reservations. “Some don’t have to get the vaccination because of the forwards they have seen on the social media. We are trying to convince them to get the vaccine at the earliest,” he added. On Tuesday, paying tribute to the 28-year-old sub-inspector, Sood tweeted, “Youngest member of the police family to succumb to Covid. 28-year-old, PSI Shamili of Kolar, attached to DK district lost her battle with COVID. May her soul rest in peace. But it could be any of us. Please cooperate with the police, stay home and stay safe.” At the same time, data released by the Indian Medical Association (IMA) said that the state has lost eight doctors to Covid-19 during the second wave of the pandemic in the state. The IMA said on Tuesday that the country lost 270 doctors in the second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, which has been more deadly and fast-spreading. Police personnel who died due to Covid-19First wave: 9,600 infections, 103 deaths. Second wave: 4,203 infections, 41 deaths. Vaccination The total strength of the police department: 87,917 Police personnel who received the first dose: 84,917 (96%) Police personnel who received the second dose: 72,648 (82%) Police personnel who haven’t got the vaccine: 2,993 Police personnel who are medically unfit for vaccines: 2,557 out of 2,993||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/data-reveals-karnataka-police-lost-almost-one-cop-daily-to-2nd-wave-of-covid-19-pandemic-101621361535195.html
18-05-2021||India||No new Covid strain detected here, Singapore health ministry counters Kejriwal||Singapore on Tuesday dismissed Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s assertion about a new Coronavirus strain being detected in that country, and said the variant prevalent in many Covid-19 cases in recent weeks was the “B.1.617.2 variant, which originated in India”.Kejriwal had requested the Centre to immediately suspend flights from Singapore because of an alleged new strain, which was suspected to affect children, being detected in that country. He contended that the alleged new strain could lead to a third wave of infections in India and said the Centre should focus on identifying vaccines for children.A statement issued by Singapore’s health ministry cited Indian media reports quoting Kejriwal and said: “There is no truth whatsoever in the assertions found within the reports.”The statement added: “There is no ‘Singapore variant’. The strain that is prevalent in many of the Covid-19 cases in recent weeks is the B.1.617.2 variant, which originated in India.There is no truth in the assertion that there is a new COVID strain in Singapore. Phylogenetic testing has shown that the B.1.617.2 variant is the prevalent strain in many of the COVID cases, including in children, in recent weeks in Singapore.https://t.co/uz0mNPNxlE https://t.co/Vyj7gyyzvJ“Phylogenetic testing has shown this B.1.617.2 variant to be associated with several clusters in Singapore.”Union aviation minister Hardeep Puri had responded to Kejriwal’s remarks by saying that there were no regular flights between India and Singapore, except for a few under the Vande Bharat mission to repatriate Indian nationals.Kejriwal had said in a tweet in Hindi: “The new form of Covid-19 that has come to Singapore is being said to be extremely dangerous for children. In India, it may come as a third wave. My appeal to the Central government: 1. Air services with Singapore be cancelled with immediate effect 2. Priority on vaccine options should be worked out for children too.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-new-covid-strain-detected-here-singapore-health-ministry-counters-kejriwal-101621359676398.html
18-05-2021||India||Less than 2% population affected by Covid-19, 98% still vulnerable: Govt||Less than 2 per cent of the total population in India has been affected by Covid-19 so far and 98 per cent of the population is still susceptible or vulnerable to the infection, the government said on Tuesday."Despite the high number of cases reported so far, we have been able to contain the spread to under 2 pc of population," said Health Ministry Joint Secretary Lav Agarwal.The government said that of the total population in India, 1.8 per cent has been affected by Covid-19 so far and 98 per cent of the population is still susceptible or vulnerable to the infection.Despite the high number of cases reported so far, we have been able to contain the spread to under 2% of the population. We can not let our guards down, hence continued focus on containment is critical: Joint Secretary, @MoHFW_INDIA #IndiaFightsCorona #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/cDDazlPjnzThe government said a continued decline has been noted in active cases in the last 15 days. From 17.13 per cent of the total caseload reported on May 3, it has reduced to 13.3 per cent, it added.Eight states have more then 1 lakh active Covid-19 cases and 22 states have more than 15 per cent case positivity, it said.Maharashtra, UP, Delhi, Bihar, MP and Chhattisgath have shown a decline in Covid-19 cases and a decline in positivity, the government said.Maharashtra, UP, Delhi, Bihar, MP and Chhattisgarh have shown a decline in cases and a decline in positivity, it added.There are 199 districts showing a continued decline in Covid-19 cases and positivity since the last two weeks, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/less-than-2-population-affected-by-covid-19-98-still-vulnerable-govt-101621357564622.html
18-05-2021||India||'At least partially and probably quite': Fauci on Covid vaccine efficacy against variant from India||Top US infectious disease expert Dr Anthony Fauci on Tuesday said that the vaccines currently being used by the United States would be “at least partially and probably quite protective” against coronavirus variants first detected in India. Citing recent studies published in medical journals, Dr Fauci, the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, said that the results are very encouraging regarding protection against the known SARS-CoV-2 variants.“The modest neutralization resistance of B.1.617.1 variant to vaccine-elicited antibodies suggests that current vaccines will be protective,” according to the slide shared by the White House Covid-19 response team as Fauci spoke.“The spike proteins of SARS-CoV-2 B.1.617 and B.1.618 variants identified in India provide partial resistance to vaccine-elicited and therapeutic monoclonal antibodies,” the presentation further read.The United States is using vaccines developed by Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna, both based on mRNA technology. Health experts have been closely following the studies regarding the efficacy of Covid-19 vaccines against variants of concern.Also Read | Won't deviate from lockdown plans: UK PM Boris Johnson on B1.617.2 variant of Covid-19Pfizer-BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine showed that it can neutralise SARS-CoV-2 dominant variants which remain susceptible to neutralising antibodies, said Fauci. He added that most individuals vaccinated with Moderna’s Covid-19 vaccine maintained binding and functional antibodies against a wide range of variants.“This is just another example of the scientific data accruing, and as I have shown you here...indicating another very strong reason why we should be vaccinated,” said Dr Fauci.The B.1.617 variant, believed to be driving the deadly second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, is the fourth variant that has been classified as a variant of global concern. India on Monday registered 263,533 cases of Covid-19 and 4,329 related deaths, the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) dashboard showed on Tuesday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccines-to-be-at-least-partially-protective-against-variant-from-india-fauci-101621355941299.html
18-05-2021||India||Haryana Congress seeks CM Khattar's apology over alleged lathhicharge on farmers in Hisar||Haryana's main opposition Congress Tuesday demanded Manohar Lal Khattar's apology over the alleged police lathicharge on farmers in Hisar on Sunday when they protested against the Chief Minister during the inauguration of a hospital.They also alleged that the chief minister inaugurated the dedicated Covid-19 hospital in the presence of a large number of people, in violation of laid down protocols to curb the spread of coronavirus.In a statement, Haryana Congress president Kumari Selja said that Congress demands that the chief minister apologise for the 'lathicharge'.Many other Congress leaders from the state also hit out at the Khattar government over the Hisar incident in which violent clashes took place when the protesting farmers tried to march towards the venue where Khattar had gone to inaugurate the hospital.Many people including over 20 police personnel were injured in the incident.The police had used force when farmers tried to storm their way towards the venue when they were stopped.After the incident on Sunday, Selja had said that "rather than rolling back the farm laws, the BJP-JJP government is raining lathis on farmers".She had also alleged that the chief minister inaugurated the hospital in the presence of a large number of people, putting them at "risk" by not following the Covid protocols.On Tuesday, she said that Congress leaders submitted memorandums through the respective Deputy Commissioners addressed to the Governor.Through the memorandums, it has been brought to the Governor’s notice that there was alleged violation of Covid-related guidelines as well as that of Section 144 CrPC during the Chief Minister's visit to inauguration event in Hisar.The Congress, while referring to the presence of “large” number of people during the inauguration event of the hospital, has sought appropriate action in the matter.She alleged that if those at the helm do not follow Covid guidelines, when lockdown and Section 144 CrPC have been imposed in the state to check the spread of Covid-19, how common people can be expected to follow the rules?Selja said farmers have been protesting near various border points of Delhi against the Centre's new farm laws for the past six months, “but neither the Centre nor the state government is listening to them”.She said when they learnt about Khattar's visit to Hisar on Sunday they gathered there for a peaceful protest, but they got police lathis and tear gas shells in return.Several farmers, including women farmers, sustained injuries “due to the ruthless action taken by the police at the behest of the BJP-JJP government”, she alleged.Senior Haryana Congress leaders on Tuesday also said the chief minister's “silence” even after two days of the Hisar incident “where women were beaten up mercilessly during lathicharge shows how sensitive he is towards the plight of women”.In a joint statement, former Education Minister and sitting MLA Geeta Bhukkal, MLA Shakuntala Khatak, Congress Legislature Party Chief whip Bharat Bhushan Batra and another senior leader Aftab Ahmed claimed the Hisar incident “has exposed the true face of the BJP”.“The Chief Minister was seen shedding crocodile tears in the Vidhan Sabha in the last session when a tractor was being pulled in a symbolic manner by a few women Congress MLAs.“At that time the chief minister's advisors also publicized the episode and launched a media blitz to show how emotional and sensitive the Chief Minister is toward the women. The CM must explain his silence when women were attacked, sustained head injuries, tear gas shells were fired. Where are his tears now,” Bhukkal asked.Khattar and other BJP leaders had in March slammed the Congress after former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda rode a tractor being pulled by some of the opposition party's women legislators to protest the rise in fuel prices.Khattar had expressed his anguish and said in the Assembly, “This treatment to women MLAs was worse than bonded labour.”Shakuntala Khatak said when she was pulling the tractor in a symbolic way, the Chief Minister had said that he was deeply pained.“The State Women's Commission went a step further and had also issued a notice to the Leader of Opposition (Bhupinder Singh Hooda). Now the whole country is watching what happened in Hisar. The Chief Minister is not shedding any tears now, the Women's Commission is not giving any notice to anyone. Why this double character,” she questioned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-congress-seeks-cm-khattar-s-apology-over-alleged-lathhicharge-on-farmers-in-hisar-101621355374409.html
18-05-2021||India||‘Ritul Saikia in our custody’: ULFA-I chief confirms abduction of ONGC engineer||GUWAHATI: The banned United Liberation Front of Asom-Independent (ULFA-I) confirmed on Tuesday that Ritul Saikia, an employee of Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) abducted last month was in their custody. Ritul Saikia, a junior engineer assistant, was one of three ONGC employees to have been abducted from an ONGC rig site in Assam’s Sivasagar district on April 21.The other two, Mohini Mohan Gogoi (junior engineer assistant) and Alakesh Saikia (junior technician), were rescued by security forces three days after an operation in Nagaland, close to the Indo-Myanmar border. There had, however, been no clarity on Ritul Saikia and the insurgent group had claimed after the gunfight with security forces that it had released all three.On Tuesday, ULFA-I commander-in-chief Paresh Baruah came around to acknowledge that this wasn’t the case. He said Saikia is being held by the organization and he is being taken care of. “We will have to talk with ONGC and will surely release him after that. I would like to assure Saikia’s family and well-wishers that no harm will come to him,” Baruah told DY365, an Assamese TV channel.Baruah’s confirmation that Ritul Saikia was in ULFA-I’s custody came hours after Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma visited the ONGC employee’s home at Titabar in Jorhat district and assured them that all efforts were underway to secure his release. “As per our information, Saikia is in ULFA-I custody in Myanmar, close to the Indo-Myanmar border. We are taking all possible steps to bring him back without any harm,” Sarma told journalists after meeting Saikia’s family. Last week, ULFA-I issued a seven-point list of demands to ONGC, Oil India Limited (OIL) and Indian Oil Corporation Limited (IOCL) which included the demand for 95% reservation in jobs for indigenous residents of Assam in the three public sector oil companies.On Saturday, the banned outfit announced a three-month unilateral ceasefire and suspension of all operations citing the Covid19 pandemic. “The ceasefire announcement is a welcome step, but that doesn’t mean government action against the outfit will stop. The ceasefire is a move from their side without framing any ground rules. For a formal ceasefire, the outfit should shun violence and join peace talks,” Sarma said on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ritul-saikia-in-our-custody-ulfa-i-chief-confirms-abduction-of-ongc-engineer-101621356734351.html
18-05-2021||India||Over 80 railway hospitals to get oxygen plants to tide over Covid-19 crisis||All 86 of Indian Railways’ Covid-19 hospitals will soon get their oxygen plants set up, the railway ministry said in a statement on Tuesday.While four oxygen plants are already functional, 52 are sanctioned and 30 are under various stages of processing, the ministry said. “All Railway Covid Hospitals to be equipped with Oxygen Plants,” it added.So far, around 2,000 railway employees have lost their lives to Covid-19 with about 1,000 getting infected daily, according to the ministry. So far, around 4.32 lakh rail employees have been vaccinated.General Managers of zonal railways have been delegated further powers, up to ₹2 crores in each case to sanction oxygen generation plants, it said.The ministry also said the total number of beds for Covid-19 treatment has been increased from 2,539 to 6,972. The ICU beds in Covid-19 hospitals have been increased from 273 to 573 while invasive ventilators have been added and their number has been increased from 62 to 296.“Constant efforts are being made to add critical medical equipment like BIPAP machines, oxygen concentrators, oxygen cylinders, etc, across railway hospitals. Railways have also issued instructions that Covid affected employees may be admitted to empanelled hospitals on a referral basis as per the need,” the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-80-railway-hospitals-to-get-oxygen-plants-to-tide-over-covid-19-crisis-101621355414361.html
18-05-2021||India||Haryana man who performed last rites of over 300 Covid victims succumbs to virus||An official of the Hisar Municipal Corporation, who ensured a dignified funeral for over 300 Covid-19 victims ever since the outbreak of the pandemic, succumbed to the disease barely two days after testing positive, a spokesperson said on Tuesday.Praveen Kumar, 43, died at a private hospital on Monday night, the spokesperson of the municipal corporation said.Kumar was the head of the team formed by the municipal corporation to cremate the bodies of coronavirus patients."He had cremated over 300 Covid bodies so far since last year. He tested positive two days ago. He was admitted to a private hospital, where his oxygen level kept dipping due to which he died,” the spokesperson said.Kumar was also the president of Municipal Corporation Safai Karamchari Union here.His last rites were performed at a cremation ground in Rishi Nagar here on Tuesday as per the Covid guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-man-who-performed-last-rites-of-over-300-covid-victims-succumbs-to-virus-101621354323108.html
18-05-2021||India||Is apprehension of death due to Covid ground for bail? SC to hear next week||The Supreme Court will hear a petition next week on whether apprehension of death due to Covid-19 can be a ground to grant anticipatory bail to any accused. The Uttar Pradesh government has challenged an Allahabad High Court verdict granting anticipatory bail to an alleged conman till January 2022 on the ground that an accused needs to be protected till the threat of novel coronavirus to his life is minimised or eradicated.The UP government’s petition in the top court said the high court ruling granting an arrest shield to the accused in this case creates a dangerous precedent for similarly-placed accused. The government argued that the accused was not Covid-19 positive but has been allowed to roam free on mere apprehension of death if he contracts the infection in jail.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta mentioned the petition before a vacation bench of Justices Vineet Saran and BR Gavai for urgent listing. Mehta raised an apprehension that the order could be used as a precedent for other accused to claim similar relief. The bench agreed to hear the petition next week.The order under challenge was passed on May 10 on an application moved by Prateek Jain, who is accused of cheating and forgery in a case registered at Sihani Gate police station in Ghaziabad. The accused sought protection from arrest claiming that once he surrendered, his life would be in peril in view of the overcrowding of jails and lack of medical facilities in jail to preserve his life.The high court granted his request. A single-judge bench of Justice Siddharth said, “extraordinary times require extraordinary remedy and desperate times require remedial remedy.”The bench observed, “The apprehension of an accused being infected with novel coronavirus before and after his arrest and the possibility of his spreading the same while coming into contact with the police, court and jail personnel or vice-versa can be considered to be a valid ground for grant of anticipatory bail to an accused.” The high court further held that in cases where the charge-sheet has been submitted or warrants issued against an accused, “such an accused is required to be protected till the threat of novel coronavirus to his life is minimized or eradicated and normal functioning of the courts are restored.”The high court allowed the accused to remain on anticipatory bail till January 3, 2022, considering the news of a possible third wave of infections by September this year.The UP government’s petition argues this was wrong because it gives a go-by to established parameters for grant of anticipatory bail such as the nature and gravity of accusation, the criminal antecedent of the applicant, the possibility of fleeing from justice and whether the accusation has been made for injuring and humiliating the applicant by getting him arrested. Instead, the UP government said, the high court judge was of the view that “only when the accused would be alive, he would be subjected to the normal procedure of law of arrest, bail and trial.”The high court, however, set bail conditions that required him not to leave or change his residence till the conclusion of the trial, remain physically present in court on dates fixed for evidence and when the witnesses are present in court, surrender his passport and not hamper the trial or investigation of the case by influencing witnesses or tampering with evidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/is-apprehension-of-death-due-to-covid-ground-for-bail-sc-to-hear-next-week-101621352416662.html
18-05-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Another cyclone may form over Bay of Bengal, warns IMD and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Another cyclone likely to form over Bay of Bengal as low-pressure area’: IMDAfter cyclone Tauktae, another cyclone could be brewing with a low-pressure area likely to form over the east-central Bay of Bengal around May 23 that might intensify further into a depression and a cyclone, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has warned. If a cyclone forms, it will be called ‘Yaas’. Read moreSerum CEO Adar Poonawalla defends vaccine export, says ‘daily cases were at an all-time low’Serum Institute of India (SII) CEO Adar Poonawalla on Tuesday defended the export of Covid-19 vaccines before the second wave of pandemic ravaged the country. Read moreYSR Congress MP who accused cops of torture shifted to military hospital, examinedYSR Congress lawmaker Kanumuri Raghurama Krishnam Raju, arrested last week on charges of sedition, was shifted to the military hospital in Secunderabad around Monday midnight. Read moreEight states have more than 100,000 active Covid-19 cases, testing increased consistently: CentreThe Centre on Tuesday said that at present eight states have more than 100,000 active cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The government also said that the number of tests conducted for Covid-19 in India has witnessed a “consistent increase.” Read moreAB de Villiers will not come out of international retirement, confirms Cricket South AfricaCricket South Africa (CSA) on Tuesday announced that former captain AB de Villiers will not come out of his international retirement ahead of the upcoming T20 World Cup in India. Read moreThe future of work is hybrid, and that’s what we are working towards: Cisco’s Pankaj AgrawalLast year we were taken out of our office spaces and locked up at home while the world struggled through the Covid-19 pandemic. For the tech-savvy and the not-so-tech-savvy, both, the major chunk of our daily work moved online - it became all about adapting or perishing. Read moreArjun says Anshula sacrificed a lot: 'Not easy to live without parents around'Arjun Kapoor has said that his sister Anshula has sacrificed a lot in her life. In a recent interview, Arjun was asked about the one person in his life who has made his dreams their own. Read moreAdline Castelino or Anushka Sharma? Who wore the gold Saisha Shinde gown betterAdline Castelino, the Indian model and Miss Diva Universe 2020, was dubbed the third runner-up in the Miss Universe beauty pageant after competing with participants from 73 countries. Read moreWatch| 'Big, big problem': Top doctor on plasma therapy & mutant viruses | Covid||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-another-cyclone-may-form-over-bay-of-bengal-warns-imd-and-all-the-latest-news-101621349117885.html
18-05-2021||India||Serum CEO Adar Poonawalla defends vaccine export, says ‘daily cases were at an all-time low’||Serum Institute of India (SII) CEO Adar Poonawalla on Tuesday defended the export of Covid-19 vaccines before the second wave of pandemic ravaged the country. Poonawalla said in a statement that the company exported the vaccines when the number of daily caseloads in India were at an all-time low and when health experts believed that the nation was “turning the tide on the pandemic.”The Centre has been facing criticism for its vaccine strategy as Opposition parties have asked why Covid-19 vaccines, critical in the fight against the pandemic, were exported in the early days of the vaccination drive. Posters were pasted across the national capital region questioning Prime Minister Narendra Modi over vaccine shortage in the country.“Modiji hamare bachhon ki vaccine videsh kyun bhej diya (Modi ji, why did you send the vaccines meant for our children to foreign countries?)” the posters read, after which 25 were arrested by Delhi Police in connection with those posters.Poonawalla said that the government extended support to many countries facing an acute crisis and were in desperate need of help. He argued that such “corporation between countries” forms the basis of India getting access to technology and aid for healthcare. “Today, it is this reciprocity, where India has helped other countries with the supply of HCQ and vaccine exports, that has in turn led to support from other countries,” Poonawalla said.The SII CEO further stated that the pandemic is not limited by geographical and political boundaries and “[w]e will not be safe till” the virus is defeated at a global scale. US President Joe Biden also spoke on similar lines Monday while announcing vaccine exports by June end. However, the United States has already administered at least one of Covid-19 vaccines to nearly 60% of the US adult population.Poonawalla asserted that SII has never exported vaccines at the cost of the people in India and remains committed to doing everything they can to support the vaccination drive in the country. But he clarified, citing several factors and challenges involved, that a vaccination drive for such a large population cannot be complete within 2-3 months.“That said, it would take 2-3 years for the entire world population to get fully vaccinated,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/daily-cases-were-at-an-all-time-low-poonawalla-defends-india-s-vaccine-export-101621349371102.html
18-05-2021||India||‘Another cyclone likely to form over Bay of Bengal as low-pressure area’: IMD||After cyclone Tauktae, another cyclone could be brewing with a low-pressure area likely to form over the east-central Bay of Bengal around May 23 that might intensify further into a depression and a cyclone, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has warned. If a cyclone forms, it will be called ‘Yaas’.“We have indicated in our bulletin that there is a likelihood of formation of a low-pressure area over Bay of Bengal next week. In our outlook on cyclogenesis also we have indicated that the low-pressure system can intensify. As soon as it comes in our forecast skill range we will mention it in our forecasts,” said Sunitha Devi, in charge, cyclones at the IMD.The sea surface temperature is above normal by 1-2 degree C both over the Arabian Sea and the Bay of Bengal making conditions favourable for the development of a cyclone. “The sea surface temperatures (SST) are around 31 degrees C over the Bay of Bengal also and all other oceanic and atmospheric conditions are favourable for cyclone development,” added Sunitha.The extended cyclogenesis outlook by the Regional Specialised Meteorological Centre, issued on May 13, had said, “there is also a ‘Low’ probability existing for cyclogenesis over east-central and adjoining northeast Bay of Bengal towards the latter half of week 2.”“A low-pressure area is developing. It may intensify into a depression or a cyclone. As of now, the models are indicating that it is likely to move towards Myanmar and not towards the Indian coast,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice president, climate change and meteorology at Skymet Weather. Extremely severe cyclonic storm, Tauktae, which ravaged the west coast, particularly Mumbai, and made landfall over Gujarat coast has weakened to a cyclonic storm. It lay centred over Saurashtra, 190 kilometres south-southwest of Dessa and 105 kilometres south-southwest of Ahmedabad on Tuesday afternoon. Its intensity at the centre of the cyclone remained 75 to 85 kmph gusting to 95 kmph.After entering land around 8.30 PM on Monday, Tauktae continued to move north northwestwards and crossed the Gujarat coast between Porbandar and Mahuva (Bhavnagar district) east of Diu with a maximum wind speed of 155 to 165 kmph gusting to 185 kmph. The intensity at the centre or eye of the storm was 160 to 170 kmph gusting to 190 kmph.Remnants of the system and its interaction with an approaching western disturbance is likely to cause fairly widespread to widespread rainfall/thunderstorms over the Western Himalayan region and adjoining plains of northwest India during May 19 and 20 along with isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall over Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and West Uttar Pradesh on May 19 and heavy rainfall at isolated places over Punjab on the same day. Isolated extremely heavy rain is also likely over Uttarakhand on May 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-cyclone-likely-to-form-over-bay-of-bengal-as-low-pressure-area-imd-101621348334101.html
18-05-2021||India||YSR Congress MP who accused cops of torture shifted to military hospital, examined||YSR Congress lawmaker Kanumuri Raghurama Krishnam Raju, arrested last week on charges of sedition, was shifted to the military hospital in Secunderabad around Monday midnight. The Supreme Court had ordered that K Raghurama Krishnam Raju be admitted to the military hospital after the rebel YSR Congress member of Parliament alleged that he had been tortured by Andhra Pradesh police and requested that he should be examined at a “neutral” hospital.On Tuesday, Raju underwent a medical examination by a board of three doctors constituted by the commandant of the medical hospital. The examination was conducted under the supervision of Telangana high court registrar D Nagarjuna who was appointed as a judicial officer by the high court chief justice on the top court’s directions.“The medical examination was videographed. His blood samples were taken for conducting various tests. His health condition is stable. After obtaining all medical examination reports, the medical board will submit a report on Raju’s health status to the Supreme Court in a sealed cover,” an official at the military hospital said. The top court will hear the case on Friday.In his plea to seek bail from the Supreme Court, Raju had cited torture by the police and pointed ou that he was suffering from cardiac issues and had undergone a bypass surgery recently.Raju was arrested on charges of sedition, delivering hate speeches and promoting disaffection against the government on May 14, weeks after he escalated his attacks on party boss and chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy. He had approached the high court for bail a day after his arrest but was told to first file the request with a lower court. The Narasapuram lawmaker, also a prominent businessman in the West Godavari district, moved the Supreme Court for bail on Monday.At the military hospital on Tuesday, Raju is learnt to have complained of difficulty in walking due to alleged custodial torture by Andhra police. His statement was recorded by the doctors. “He had swelling on his right leg and he was administered painkillers for treating the inflammation,” the official cited above said.Raju will remain at the hospital till Friday for observation and medical care. His period of stay in the hospital would be treated as judicial custody which would end on May 28.It was during the bail hearing at the Supreme Court that Raghurama Krishnam Raju also alleged that he had been tortured but doctors at the state government hospital had refused to acknowledge his injury. The Guntur general hospital had earlier told the high court that he had no external injuries and that he was stable.Meanwhile, officials at the military hospital refused permission to Raju’s son K Bharat to visit his father since this was not permitted by the Supreme Court. “It is unfortunate that I was not permitted to see my father. Since it was the Supreme Court order, I have to follow it,” Bharat said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ysr-cong-mp-who-accused-cops-of-torture-shifted-to-military-hospital-examined-101621347975068.html
18-05-2021||India||Will my Covid-19 vaccine first dose effect last for 6 months? Experts say yes||Four to six weeks, six to eight or eight to 12? The increasing gap between two Covishield doses in India while the UK reduces its window has laypersons confused, but several experts say there is little reason to worry and second jabs anytime before six months can still be effective boosters.The government last week extended the gap between two doses of the Covishield Covid-19 vaccine to 12-16 weeks, up from the previous maximum of eight weeks, on the recommendation of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI). A day later, UK cut the gap from 12 weeks to eight weeks in view of the spread of the B.1.617 variant that originated in India. Responding to concerns that India increased the gap primarily because vaccines were in short supply and many states had complained of acute shortage in supplies, immunologist Satyajit Rath said vaccine dosing is “quite flexible and forgiving”.Once four weeks have passed, the next dose can be taken whenever practicable, until six months.According to the scientist, vaccine doses will be safe no matter when they are taken but will not provide any great "boosting" if given within less than a month or so of the previous dose. “So vaccine doses can be taken any time after at least four weeks have passed from either the first dose or after an actual episode of Covid-19,” Rath, from New Delhi's National Institute of Immunology (NII), told PTI. “Secondly, vaccine doses will give perfectly good boosting if given any time up to as much as six months or so after a previous dose. So a second dose, or the first dose after a Covid-19 episode, does not have to be taken after four weeks,” he explained. The NTAGI, Rath added, is making these new recommendations based on evidence, and trying to provide support for practical steps.Referring to the UK reducing its Covishield doses gap just as India increased its, immunologist Vineeta Bal said these decisions are taken based on ground realities and “there is no yes or no answer” to whether they will have any consequence on tackling the variant better. In one country, the increased window will enable more people to be vaccinated, in the other, a decreased gap will accelerate the pace of inoculation.“If there are enough doses available, the second shot should be given at the optimal time as it will provide the best possible immunity in the present circumstances,” Bal, guest faculty at Pune’s Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, told PTI.A vaccine triggered immune response, she admitted, will start declining with time. However, at the end of 12-16 weeks it is unlikely to come to complete baseline level. “Hence a booster effect can still be obtained after a gap of 12-16 weeks,” Bal said. “There are also data from various clinical trials for Covishield which are suggestive that a booster after 12-16 weeks will be fine,” she added. According to Rath, there is emerging evidence, mostly from the UK for Covishield, that very good protection is seen with a dose gap of 12 odd weeks. “So I think that the committee is trying to provide evidence-based support for delaying the permissible interval between doses as much as possible to accommodate the realities of vaccine supply shortage,” he added. Bal added it is not a serious cause of concern as long as there is assurance that everyone will get the first and second dose in the near future. According to a peer-reviewed study published in The Lancet in February, the coronavirus vaccine developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University is more effective when its second dose is given around three months after the first, instead of six weeks later. "Vaccine supply is likely to be limited, at least in the short term, and so policy-makers must decide how best to deliver doses to achieve the greatest public health benefit,” Prof Andrew Pollard of the University of Oxford said in the study. “Where there is a limited supply, policies of initially vaccinating more people with a single dose may provide greater immediate population protection than vaccinating half the number of people with 2 doses,” he added. In India, the gap between two Covishield doses was four to six weeks, then increased to six to eight, and is now 12-16."Based on the available real-life evidences, particularly from the UK, the Covid-19 Working Group agreed for increasing the dosing interval to 12-16 weeks between two doses of Covishield vaccine. No change in interval of Covaxin vaccine doses was recommended," the Health Ministry said last week.The NTAGI has also stated that those having laboratory test proven SARS-CoV-2 illness should defer Covid-19 vaccination for six months after recovery. According to the Health Ministry's current protocol, the vaccine is to be taken four to eight weeks after recovery from Covid-19. Rath said the basis for this step seems to be based on the fact that there are good antibody levels in most people who have had Covid-19 and that they last for at least six months.  So they are likely to be well protected for that period, and therefore there is no pressing need to vaccinate them before that,” the scientist said. “This reduces the burden on the stuttering vaccine supply and distribution system. I am not in disagreement with the recommendations based on such a rationale, ” he added. However, the immunologist hoped that the rationale will be clearly explained. If there is no explanation, it will add to confusion. Most viral infections, Bal noted, generate enough immunity to provide protection for a few months post-recovery. Based on that knowledge, this recommendation is not unreasonable. “RT-PCR positive patients post-recovery do not remain as vulnerable as those who are neither vaccinated nor infected,” she explained. “They have enough immunity in them, generally. Just because of this recommendation, the situation is not likely to worsen in India. Other things like unavailability of vaccine for a large section of people is more of a problem,” Bal added. On NTAGI suggesting no changed in the protocol for Covaxin, the other vaccine being administered in India, Rath said this is likely because the recommendations are based on UK-based evidence with Covishield. There is no no such evidence for Covaxin. “I am glad since this suggests that the committee, as I keep saying, is trying very hard to stay carefully on evidence while trying to help with the current unhappy realities,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-my-covid-19-vaccine-first-dose-effect-last-for-6-months-experts-say-yes-101621342004858.html
18-05-2021||India||India's future needs Modi 'system' shaken out of sleep, says Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday said the country would not have been in such a painful situation due to the coronavirus pandemic today had the government ensured easy access to vaccines.He also said that a coronavirus vaccine-treatment protocol should already have been in place for children in the country."The country would not have been in such a painful situation today, if access to vaccines (against coronavirus) was as easy as arresting people under the Modi ‘system’ for raising questions. Stop Corona, not questions raised by the public," he said in a tweet in Hindi.His tweet came in the backdrop of arrest of over a dozen of people after posters were put up in Delhi questioning Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the export of coronavirus vaccines.In another tweet, he added, "In the time to come, children will need protection from Corona. Paediatric services and vaccine-treatment protocol should already be in place," Gandhi wrote on Twitter."India's future needs for the present Modi 'system' to be shaken out of sleep," he said.The former Congress chief and his party have been criticising the government's vaccination policy describing it discriminatory.Gandhi has been demanding a vaccination protocol be put in place for protecting all Indians from Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-future-needs-modi-system-shaken-out-of-sleep-says-rahul-gandhi-101621342029047.html
18-05-2021||India||Covid-19 cases in Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Assam may peak in next 2 weeks, govt-backed SUTRA model suggests||States like Tamil Nadu, Assam and Punjab may see the peak of second wave of coronavirus cases in the next two weeks, the SUTRA model that charts the trajectory of Covid-19 suggests.However, the relief is that Delhi and states like Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh have well passed their peak, the model further suggests.It also says that the country reached its peak by May 4 and then the daily cases have seen downward trend. However, on May 7, the country recorded 4,14,188 cases, the single highest in any day."Big states like Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Assam are yet to see their peak," said Prof. M Vidyasagar of IIT-Hyderabad, one of the three scientists working on the modelling.The models suggest Tamil Nadu may see a peak by May 29-31 while Puducherry may witness a peak on May 19-20.States in east and northeast India are yet to see their peak. Assam may see a peak by May 20-21, the model suggests.On Monday, the state detected 6,394 new cases, which is also the highest on a single day. Chief minister Himanta Biswas Sarma said the state also recorded 92 more Covid-19 deaths on Monday, its highest single-day fatality.Models predicted a dip in infection in Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur and the cases in these states did record a decline but they have started increasing marginally. Meghalaya could see a peak on May 30-31, while Tripura could see a peak on May 26-27, the model suggests.In the north, Himachal Pradesh and Punjab are witnessing a surge in the cases. Himachal Pradesh may see a peak in the cases by May 24 and Punjab by May 22.Odisha was to peak by May 16-17.States like Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand, Rajasthan, Kerala, Sikkim, Uttarakhand, Gujarat, Haryana besides Delhi and Goa have already seen their peak.The health ministry in its press briefing on Tuesday said Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh have shown a decline in Covid-19 cases and a decline in positivity. It added that Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh have shown a decline in cases and a decline in positivity, it added.Mathematical models help predict the intensity of coronavirus cases and policy decisions can be taken on its basis. The SUTRA model came into existence last year after the Department of Science and Technology formed a group of scientists to work on mathematical models to forecast the surge of coronavirus.The modelling faced intense criticism after it could not predict the exact nature of the second wave.A statement issued by the DST and signed by Vidyasagar, IIT Kanpur Professor Manindra Agrawal and deputy chief of Integrated Defence Staff Madhuri Kanitkar, said mathematical models had predicted a second wave of coronavirus and its peak in the third week of April with daily cases of 1 lakh.But the numbers were much higher than the model predicted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-cases-in-tamil-nadu-punjab-assam-may-peak-in-next-2-weeks-govt-backed-sutra-model-suggests-101621344348807.html
18-05-2021||India||Eight states have more than 100,000 active Covid-19 cases, testing increased consistently: Centre||The Centre on Tuesday said that at present eight states have more than 100,000 active cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The government also said that the number of tests conducted for Covid-19 in India has witnessed a “consistent increase.”In a press briefing by the Union ministry of health and family welfare, joint secretary Lav Agarwal said that eight states -- Karnataka, Maharashtra, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal -- have more than 100,000 active Covid-19 cases. Karnataka with 603,660 active cases added the maximum. Data from the ministry also showed that there are 10 states that have between 50,000 and 100,000 active cases and there are 18 states where the active caseload is below 50,000.Also read | Will give ₹50,000 to family who faced Covid-19 death, announces Kejriwal﻿The ministry also said that the number of tests conducted for Covid-19 has seen a “consistent increase” across the country. Between May 11 and 17, health workers have tested 1,845,672 samples for the disease which has increased from 1,816,139 samples tested between May 4 and 10.Mentioning that 1.8% of India’s population has been affected by the disease, the ministry said that “Despite the high number of cases reported so far, we have been able to contain the spread to under 2% of population.”The US leads the list, where 10.1% of the population has tested positive followed by France (9%) and Brazil (7.3%). However, the number of people affected in India is much higher than the other countries (except the US) mentioned by the ministry.Meanwhile, at least six states, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh, have shown a decline in the daily new cases and also the positivity rate, the ministry highlighted. However, in states like Tamil Nadu, Tripura, Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur and Mizoram, the two parameters have seen an increasing trend. In Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Odisha, Assam, Puducherry and Nagaland, the cases seem to have plateaued, the ministry noted.Watch | Biden pledges 80 million Covid vaccines overseas; takes a dig at Russia & China﻿Among the districts, Pune, Nagpur and Nashik in Maharashtra have shown a continued decline in the cases in the past three weeks, according to data from the ministry.As far as the Covid-19 vaccination is concerned, more than 184 million doses of the vaccine have been administered so far. Of these, 139.5 million doses have been given to beneficiaries above 45 years of age, while more than 5.9 million doses have been received by the people in the 18 to 44 years age group. Also, 22.7 million doses have been used to inoculate frontline workers and 16.3 million doses to healthcare workers, data from the ministry showed.India reported 263,533 new Covid-19 cases on the day and 4,329 patients succumbed to the infection, pushing the death toll to 278,719.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eight-states-have-more-than-100-000-active-covid-19-cases-testing-increased-consistently-centre-101621343406654.html
18-05-2021||India||UP CM Yogi Adityanath's approach to battle second wave of Covid-19: Key points||Uttar Pradesh is one of the top eight states with the highest active coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the country. The state's active caseload stands at 149,032, as per the Union health ministry data.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath's approach to controlling Covid-19 in the state:As the threat of the second wave of the pandemic is looming large on the rural areas of the country, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath held review meetings with officials of different divisions regarding the Covid-19 situation in the villages. As many as 47 districts of 11 divisions, which is more than 50% of the state, have been assessed by Yogi through virtual meetings or physical inspection.Also read: 2 booked under NSA in Manipur for FB posts that cow dung won’t cure Covid-19The chief minister ordered stern action against those found guilty of any kind of negligence towards Covid appropriate behaviour. Recently the chief minister held a review meeting of Meerut and Saharanpur divisions of the state following a physical inspection during a two-day visit. The chief minister selects the village to visit for inspection based on the list provided by the district administration.Yogi emphasises tracing, testing and treatment to contain the virus spread. Integrated Covid Control and Command Centre (ICCC) and containment zones aid in the process. The chief minister also pays regular visits to the ICCC to ensure regular supply and availability of medical essentials and inspect the sanitation of the sites.For the second wave, Yogi has formulated Team 9, just like Team 11 was formed when the disease first hit the state. After video conferencing with the concerned officials, the chief minister evaluates the implementation of the guidelines on the ground.Yogi also continued virtual review meetings with officers every day during his home isolation as he was detected positive with the infection. Soon after testing negative, the chief minister reviewed the dedicated Covid hospital set up by the DRDO in Lucknow.Also read: Covid-19 vaccination process being streamlined, says PM ModiYogi also visited the Aligarh Muslim University, as the Covid-19 situation is deteriorating there after several teachers succumbed to the virus. The university also sent the samples for genome sequencing as the presence of a new variant was suspected due to the increased transmissibility. He is known to be the first chief minister to visit the university in the last 37 years.Earlier in the day, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra lashed out at the chief minister accusing the state government of low testing and asked if it was paving the way for the third wave of Covid-19."Neither there is testing, nor treatment, nor medical kits, but the government says that everything is fit," Gandhi said.This comes a day after the Allahabad high court said that the healthcare infrastructure in villages and small cities of Uttar Pradesh is at God's mercy or as it said 'Ram Bharose'.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-cm-yogi-adityanath-s-approach-to-battle-second-wave-of-covid-19-key-points-101621337396180.html
18-05-2021||India||Covaxin trials in children between 2 and 18 years to begin in 10-12 days, says Niti Aayog member||Dr VK Paul, member (health) of Niti Aayog, said on Tuesday that Bharat Biotech is set to begin the phase II and III clinical trials for Covaxin in children in the age group of 2 to 18 years in the next 10-12 days."Covaxin has been approved by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), for Phase II/III clinical trials in the age group of 2 to 18 years. I have been told that trials will begin in the next 10-12 days," Paul said during a press conference.Covaxin received the Drugs Controller General of India's (DCGI) nod to conduct clinical trials in children on May 11. DGCI acted on the recommendations by the subject expert committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation’s (CDSCO), which green lighted the trial under certain conditions.Bharat Biotech approached the central drug regulator with a proposal for conducting clinical trials in children within the age group of 5-18 back in February. The proposal was rejected and the company was asked to produce the data of the vaccine's efficacy in adults first.“After detailed deliberation, the committee recommended that the firm should submit efficacy and safety data of the ongoing Phase III clinical trial in adults along with the age subgroup analysis. The design of the trial should be revised to Phase II/III. Sample size and other consequential changes should be made to the protocol, accordingly. Accordingly, the firm shall submit revised clinical trial protocol for review of the committee,” Bharat Biotech was told in a meeting on February 24.India's move to conduct clinical trials for determining the vaccine's efficacy in children comes on the heels of US and Canada approving the Pfizer-BioNTech jab for ages 12-15. The US rolled out a vaccination drive for children aged 12-15 on May 14, and Canada had approved the Pfizer shots for the same age group on May 5. The European Medicines Agency is also evaluating the use of Pfizer vaccines in children.The clinical trials are expected to be conducted in 525 participants at various hospitals. Dr Randeep Guleria had said earlier that the need of the hour is some quick data and risk-benefit analysis of the vaccine's use in children. Experts have been urging governments all over the world to inoculate children so schools can be safely re-opened. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi took to Twitter on Tuesday urging the central government to put into place necessary protocols for vaccinating children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covaxin-trials-in-children-between-2-and-18-years-to-begin-in-10-12-days-says-niti-aayog-member-101621339718922.html
18-05-2021||India||2 booked under NSA in Manipur for FB posts that cow dung won’t cure Covid-19||The Manipur police have booked a journalist and an activist under the National Security Act (NSA), which provides for detention for up to a year without trial, days after they were arrested for saying cow urine and dung do not cure Covid-19 in their Facebook posts related to ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) state chief S Tikendra Singh’s death of the disease.Victor Chongtham, the lawyer of Kishorechandra Wangkhem, the journalist, and activist Erendro Leichombam, said the NSA was slapped on his clients before they could complete the formalities of their release after an Imphal court on Monday granted them bail. “We had deposited their bond amounts and were awaiting a printed copy of the court’s order granting them bail when the police decided to detain both under NSA,” said Chongtham. He added some BJP leaders have filed cases against his clients, who have earlier faced sedition charges and were arrested on Thursday for writing the posts.Also Read | Assam to ban inter-district movement to contain record rise in Covid casesChongtham said they are sending representations to the Centre as well as the state government seeking their release. “If that fails to elicit the desired outcome, we will approach the Manipur high court.”Chongtham said the police assaulted Wangkhem during his arrest and also hit Leichombam’s mother on her chest while taking him into custody.Elangbam Ranjita, Wankhem’s wife, said when the police arrived at their home on Thursday around 9:00 pm, her husband told them he is ready to answer their queries or accompany them. “But they assaulted him by pulling his shirt and tore it off,” said Ranjita.Imphal West district police superintendent K Meghachandra Singh said the two were arrested on Thursday under the Indian Penal Code (IPC)’s Section 153 A for allegedly promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc and acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony. He added the NSA was slapped on them on Monday and they were produced in a court through video conferencing and remanded in judicial custody for four days. “Both are in Imphal jail.”NSA is slapped to prevent anyone “from acting in a manner prejudicial to the security of the State, maintenance of public order and maintenance of supplies and services essential to the community”. Section 153 A provides for maximum five-year imprisonment. Wangkhem, a popular TV journalist, was first arrested in November 2018 for uploading a video on social media criticising Manipur chief minister N Biren Singh’s government. He was booked for sedition and NSA was also slapped on him before he was released in April 2019. The high court quashed the sedition charges against him. He was again arrested in September 2020 on the same charges and for allegedly promoting enmity between different groups on social media. Wangkhem was released in December 2020 and joined Frontier Manipur and started hosting a talk show.In July last year, Leichombam, who has worked with World Bank and United Nations Development Programme, was booked for sedition for a Facebook post on titular Manipur king Sanajaoba Leishemba greetings to Union home minister Amit Shah after the former’s election to the Rajya Sabha. Leichombam was later released on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-booked-under-nsa-in-manipur-for-fb-posts-that-cow-dung-won-t-cure-covid19-101621339453858.html
18-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: BMC extends global tender deadline for Covid-19 vaccines and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.BMC extends Covid vaccine global tender deadline by a weekThe Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Tuesday extended the deadline for its global tender for vaccine supply to Mumbai by a week, to March 25. Read MoreOdisha’s real Covid-19 challenge lies in rural areas, say expertsOn Saturday, the in-laws of a 25-year-old newly-wed woman went from one hospital in Bhubaneswar to another, frantically searching for a bed with oxygen facility. Read MoreStop Singapore flights, Kejriwal tells Centre amid concerns of new Covid strainDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday requested the Centre to suspend flights to and from Singapore with immediate effect in the wake of a new strain detected in that country which is suspected to affect more children. Read MoreKerala Cabinet: CM’s son-in-law gets berth; all old ministers droppedThe ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) on Tuesday sprang a surprise by dropping all ministers of the outgoing Pinarayi Vijayan government. Read MoreCummins, Starc, Hazlewood, Lyon respond to Sandpapergate rumours: 'Did not know foreign substance was taken onto field'Australian bowlers Pat Cummins, Mitchell Starc, Josh Hazlewood, and Nathan Lyon on Tuesday made their stand clear on the infamous Sandpapergate controversy as they issued a joint statement to the 'Australian Public'. Read MoreJennifer Lopez kept Ben Affleck's $1.2m pink diamond ring from their engagement?The rumour mills are churning with the possibility of Bennifer 2.0 and gossip columnists all over are overwhelmed with all the fodder that Ben Affleck and Jennifer Lopez are throwing around with their appearances together. Read MoreCars can wait, Covid won't: Maruti starts multi-speciality hospital in GujaratIn current times when medical infrastructure and facilities have become India's primary need, Maruti Suzuki has taken a big step in the battle against Covid-19 by partnering with Zydus Hospitals to officially start a multi-speciality hospital in Gujarat's Sitapur. Read MoreStep inside Neetu Kapoor's living room filled with ample seating space and a green viewNeetu Kapoor was seen catching up with her daughter Riddhima Kapoor Sahni over a video call on Monday. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-bmc-extends-global-tender-deadline-for-covid-19-vaccines-and-all-the-latest-news-101621334783901.html
18-05-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccination process being streamlined, says PM Modi during interaction with district officials||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said that the vaccination process for Covid-19 is being streamlined to boost the inoculation drive in order to reduce the severity of the disease. Attempts are being made to provide the states with the vaccination schedule of the next 15 days in advance, he said."Health ministry is streamlining the system and process of vaccination. Attempts are being made to give a schedule of the next 15 days to the states in advance," a statement read.The Prime Minister emphasized on the need to contain the virus spread and reduce the number of infections without hindering any flow of essential supplies. Work related to the installation of oxygen plants in hospitals of every district through the PM Cares Fund is being carried out rapidly, while many of the plants are already functioning in various places, PM Modi said.Also read| Covid-19 vaccine protocol for children should already be in place: Rahul GandhiHe also asked the state and district officials to compile the best practices and innovative steps for controlling the Covid-19 spread so that they can also be implemented in other districts of the country. The officials during the high-level interaction informed the Prime Minister about the efforts being undertaken to augment medical infrastructure and capacity building in the rural areas.The Prime Minister said while several states are reporting a declining trend in the number of cases, other states are projecting a rise in the cases and so stressed on the need to be more vigilant. He asked the officials to make relief material available and easily accessible in remote rural areas that are less accessible. He said the convenience of people increases when the information about the availability of beds and vaccines is easily available.Remarking the efforts taken like local containment zones, aggressive testing, accurate and complete education to people about the virus, he said, "You understand the challenges of your district much better. So, when your district wins, the country wins. When your district beats Corona, the country defeats Corona."The Prime Minister also laid importance on curbing the malpractices of black marketing and hoarding and asked the officials to take strict actions against the culprits.Also read: Delhi’s Covid tally dips further with 4,482 cases; positivity rate down to 6.89%PM Modi appreciated and lauded the efforts of healthcare and frontline workers as well as the officials who have been working relentlessly without any leaves despite contracting the virus.India on Tuesday registered over 260,000 new Covid-19 cases and 4,329 deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the health ministry data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccination-process-being-streamlined-says-pm-modi-during-interaction-with-district-officials-101621335012800.html
18-05-2021||India||Will give ₹50,000 to family who faced Covid-19 death, announces Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday announced an ex-gratia of ₹50,000 to families in the national capital that lost a member to Covid-19 disease, reported ANI.CM Kejriwal also announced a monthly pension of ₹2,500, in addition to the ex-gratia, for families where its sole breadwinner succumbed to the deadly viral disease."If the husband dies, the pension will be given to the wife, if the wife dies it will be given to the husband. If an unmarried person dies, the pension will be given to her or his parents," Kejriwal was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also read: Virus in Singapore can be India's 3rd wave, very dangerous for kids, warns Arvind KejriwalIn a further relief for children who lost their parents in the Covid-19 disease spread, Kejriwal said, "Children whose both parents die either due to Covid-19 or with one parent already dead and the one succumbing to Covid-19 now will be given ₹2,500 monthly pension till they attain the age of 25 years.""The children who have lost their parents to Covid-19 will be provided free education by the Delhi government," Kejriwal further said.Explaining the move to financially aid the bereaved families, Kejriwal said that in the last 4-5 days the Delhi government ministers and officers assessed ways to save money being spent by the authorities and help the citizens in the city-state who are reeling under the crisis.Assisting families with ration cards, Kejriwal announced free ration for the month of May up to 10kg -- by both the Delhi government and Centre."There are 72 lakh ration card holders in Delhi and they are given 5 kg ration by the government every month. This month, the ration will be given free of cost. Besides this, an additional 5 kg free ration is being given by the Centre, so they're being given 10 kg free ration this month," Kejriwal said.The announcement from CM Kejriwal comes on the day the national capital recorded 4,482 cases of coronavirus infections in the last 24 hours, pushing the cumulative case tally to 14,02,873, and 265 related deaths, a health bulletin released by the government on Tuesday showed.The positivity rate has significantly dropped to 6.89% from 8.42% on Monday, when the city had logged 4,524 cases, the lowest since April 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-give-rs-50-000-to-family-who-faced-covid-19-death-announces-kejriwal-101621336169100.html
18-05-2021||India||Odisha announces new Covid-19 lockdown from May 19 to June 1, medical services, essential movement exempted||With the existing curfew ending on May 19, the government of Odisha on Tuesday announced a new lockdown in the entire state starting from Wednesday (May 19) until 5am on June 1 with limited exceptions. Also, a complete weekend shutdown has been implemented between 6pm on Fridays and 5am on Mondays to curb the transmission of the coronavirus.In the government order shared by the news agency ANI, the state government has exempted few services such as the health services, financial sector, public utilities and commercial establishments selling essential goods.The announcement came on a day when the state recorded 10,321 new infections and 22 related deaths on Tuesday, which pushed the cases tally to 633,302 and the death toll to 2,357, news agency PTI reported, citing a state health department official.Under the new restrictions, all health services in the state such as hospitals, nursing homes, clinics and telemedicine facilities would remain functional. In addition, pharmacies and medical shops, including the Jan Aushadhi Kendras, have been allowed to function normally. Inter-state and intrastate Movement of medical personnel, scientists, para medical staff, nurses, midwives and lab technicians have also been exempted.Also read | Odisha’s real Covid-19 challenge lies in rural areas, say expertsBanks, ATMs, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and all financial entities regulated by the RBI and similar institutions have been allowed to operate based on the existing guidelines. The state government also encouraged non-banking financial institutions to operate with “bare minimum staff.”In its order, the state government also said that public utilities such as railway, airport and seaport operations would continue as per the guidelines issued by the Centre. “Operation of utilities, including movement of vehicles and personnel, providing telecommunications, DTH and internet services, including maintenance of telecom towers and recharge facilities for prepaid mobile connection,” would also be exempted, the government order noted, saying “efforts shall be made to provide on-line services rather than physical services.”While the government has exempted shops dealing with food, groceries, fruits, vegetables, dairy and milk booths, meat, fish, animal fodder, seeds, fertilizers and pesticides, it has also encouraged district authorities to facilitate home delivery to minimise the movement of people.Standalone shops dealing with food and the above-mentioned items can operate between 7am and 11am with strict adherence to existing protocols. All weekly and daily markets have been prohibited. Only takeaway services have been allowed in restaurants. However, all e-commerce operations have been exempted from the curfew.Odisha had previously implemented a 14-day lockdown between May 5 and May 19 to control the new infections of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-announces-new-covid-19-lockdown-from-may-19-to-june-1-medical-services-essential-movement-exempted-101621335700627.html
18-05-2021||India||Odisha’s real Covid-19 challenge lies in rural areas, say experts||On Saturday, the in-laws of a 25-year-old newly-wed woman went from one hospital in Bhubaneswar to another, frantically searching for a bed with oxygen facility. Swarnalata Pal, who got married last month, developed fever last week followed by a dip in her oxygen saturation levels leaving her breathless. Her family members first took her to a community health centre near the village, which referred her to Capital Hospital in Bhubaneswar, triggering a chain of refusals by private and government hospitals including AIIMS and SUM to admit her in absence of a Covid-19 positive test report. After eight hours of a fruitless hunt for treatment, she died the same afternoon.While the administration ordered a probe into the circumstances leading to her death, it has served a rude reminder about the state’s healthcare system’s capacity to deal with the challenges posed by the second wave, especially in the rural areas. However, the authorities are keen to suggest that the situation is under control now.“The situation is stable now. The daily count is hovering between 10,000 and 12,000,” said director of public health, Dr Niranjan Mishra.While the state’s Covid test positivity rate may have come down slightly from over 20%, witnessed over the last 10 days, the fact that around 56% of the 2.9 lakh Covid cases registered in the second wave are from rural areas offer little comfort to epidemiologists and health experts.Dr Binod Patro, professor of community medicine at AIIMS Bhubaneswar and a leading epidemiologist, said to fight the pandemic successfully, Odisha needs to move beyond its current focus on building big corporate type hospitals in cities and instead build 30-50 bed hospitals at block level with oxygen facilities and support staff.“There is no point celebrating the fall in TPR as it would fluctuate and any fall in TPR has to be seen over a week. Currently, the testing is inadequate and so Rapid Antigen Tests need to be ramped up in villages as they will give results in 15 minutes. Once tested positive, they should be admitted to the block-level Covid hospitals. Only if the patient’s condition is serious then they should be shifted to Covid hospitals in nearby big cities,” he said.Gouranga Mohapatra, the state convenor of Jana Swasthya Abhiyan, an NGO working in health sector, said compared to last year, the spread of Covid in districts like Khurda, Kalahandi, Nuapada, Sundargarh and western Odisha districts like Bargarh and Sambalpur has been very fast this year.“When the second wave of the pandemic broke out in early April, the government did not get serious. While districts like Nuapara, Kalahandi and Sundargarh reported over 50% TPR, no institutional quarantine facility was available there. In villages, where large families have fewer rooms in houses, official quarantine centres are the best way to isolate infected patients to break the chain of transmission. But micro-containment was not done adequately, and a certain amount of complacency was visible in the health administration. With surveillance lacking, many people in villages may have succumbed to the pandemic,” said Mohapatra.Traditionally, Odisha’s response to health crises has been far from ideal. In 2016, at least 93 children in tribal-dominated Malkangiri district died of encephalitis between September and November. A year later, 53 people died of Swine Flu.Then there is the problem of severe understaffing. Of the 1,326 sanctioned posts of doctors in primary health centres, only 917 have been filled up, while in community health centres, there are only 253 doctors for the 1,529 posts sanctioned. In district headquarter hospitals, there are 1,094 doctors for the 1,427 posts. Similarly, there is severe understaffing of paramedical staff.Dr Sarit Kumar Rout, additional professor of Public Health Foundation of India, said the pandemic may have exposed the underbelly of an already decrepit health infrastructure in rural Odisha. “Considering that we have more than one lakh active Covid cases right now, the current bed availability is just inadequate. As it is, the distribution of medical manpower is skewed in favour of urban areas. How would critical Covid patients get treatment in rural areas, where pulmonary doctors and medicine specialists are almost absent,” asked Rout.Like several government hospitals in blocks, the Balipatna community health centre where the newly-wed woman was first taken to, does not have any Covid treatment facility though it is just 25 kms away from the state capital. The woman’s brother-in-law Niranjan Bhol said several people in the panchayat have Covid symptoms, but not all of them are getting tested. “Occasionally we hear of people dying of fever. Others who manage to travel for 25 km to hospitals in Bhubaneswar get tested there and if lucky get a bed in Covid hospitals there,” he said.Cuttack district, which is among the top-5 districts with high Covid caseload, too has seen cases rising quickly in rural areas, Cuttack chief district medical officer (CDMO) Satyabrata Chhotray said around 4,000 of the district’s 7,800-odd active Covid-19 cases are in villages. “This time cases are quite high in blocks like Narsinghpur, but there are fewer doctors to treat them. While a small portion of the Covid patients need hospitalisation, still there is paucity of ICU beds,” said the CDMO.Almost a month and half into the second wave of the pandemic, with 26 of the state’s 30 districts in red zone-- a district is classified as a red zone in the state if it has more than a thousand active Covid cases-- more than 80% of the 3,049 ICU beds in the state are occupied. Similarly, 608 of the 975 ventilators are occupied. People flocking to cities like Bhubaneswar, Rourkela, Bargarh and Sambalpur have little chance of getting an ICU bed or a bed with oxygen facility. Microbiologists say the current TPR of 18.2% and 10,321 new infections may be the tip of the iceberg. There are likely to be many more unreported cases due to lack of tests.The number of tests was below 50,000 for most of April and crossed that mark only a week ago. Bhadrak district, which reported TPR of 33.4% between May 10 and 16, tested about 12,426 samples while Balasore with TPR of 30% tested 18,664 samples. In several other districts, the testing is abysmally low with RT-PCR tests barely making up 20% of the total tests. Many districts like Nuapara and Nabarangpur don’t have RT-PCR machines and thus have to wait for 5-6 days for test results. By the time the results arrive, the Covid positive person’s condition is likely to have deteriorated significantly.“Rapid Antigen Tests are being conducted in the rural areas, where the positivity rate is 40% to 50%, indicating high rate of infection. The main problem is lack of testing facilities in villages,” said Niroj Mishra, a senior doctor in Bhubaneswar.Leading microbiologist Dr TM Mohapatra, who was earlier associated with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said the state should have been testing at least 1 lakh samples every day. “As the current strain is very infectious compared to last year’s, tests should have been ramped up. If tests are delayed and the number of infections are not kept in check, the virus may mutate more making it difficult to contain in the next wave,” he said.The state government could have utilised the time between January and March this year to get more labs. The decision to set up RT-PCR laboratories for Covid-19 testing in 16 district headquarters, with each lab costing ₹1.20 crore, was taken only last week and they may not be ready in time.Very few experts believe the government’s claim that only 414 Covid patients have died in the second wave since April 1. RTI activist Pradip Pradhan said more than 3,200 Covid casualties were cremated at Bhubaneswar’s Satya Nagar crematorium between April and December 2020, while Odisha’s official Covid death toll was 1,873 last year. “If so many people were cremated last year at Bhubaneswar when the infection rate was not high, imagine what would be happening in the entire state this year,” said Pradhan.Prodded by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to ramp up tests, Odisha on Monday said ASHA and Anganwadi workers will conduct house-to-house surveys from May 24 to detect persons with Covid symptoms and co-morbid conditions.During an all-party meeting on Monday, chief minister Naveen Patnaik said 786 doctors and 5,137 paramedics will be appointed. Gaon Kalyan Samitis will be given ₹10,000 each to carry out Covid containment activities at the village level. It also promised an additional incentive of ₹1,000 per month and one-time assistance of ₹10,000 to ASHAs and Anganwadi workers to buy a bicycle, cupboard, slippers, an umbrella and a torch so that they could monitor home isolation cases.Patnaik also declared that sarpanchs will continue to have the powers of district collectors in enforcing lockdown etc.The decision to engage with the sarpanch may have come late. Amita Pattanayak, sarpanch of Bari gram panchayat in Simulia block of Balasore, does not think much of the decision. “Last time we were entrusted with running temporary quarantine centres in the early days of the pandemic. But several sarpanchs including me did not get reimbursed the money spent for those centres. Why should I start a quarantine centre now when there is no assurance of reimbursement,” she asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odishas-real-covid-19-challenge-lies-in-rural-areas-say-experts-101621335613714.html
18-05-2021||India||Pinarayi Vijayan forms new cabinet, ‘coronavirus slayer’ KK Shailja dropped: 5 points||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) state committee on Tuesday elected its chief Pinarayi Vijayan as parliamentary party leader and the state chief minister, after scripting history by becoming the only political leader to enter a successful second stint in Kerala.Vijayan, aiming to rule the state for the next five years, has revamped his cabinet with 11 new faces and only inducted freshers. The state health minister in the outgoing assembly, KK Shailaja, who played a leading role in the fight against Covid-19 disease outbreak has not found a place in the new cabinet.Here is all you need to know about Pinarayi Vijayan's new cabinet:Vijayan had scripted history in the April 6 Assembly polls by leading the Left front to a consecutive term, breaking the over four-decade-old trend in the state of the people choosing between Communists and Congress-led governments alternately.The Communist Party of India (M)-led LDF retained power in Kerala by winning 99 seats against 41 seats of Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) in the assembly polls. BJP could not win any seat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pinarayi-vijayan-forms-new-cabinet-coronavirus-slayer-kk-shailja-dropped-5-points-101621328384681.html
18-05-2021||India||Kerala high court petitioned to shift venue of Pinarayi Vijayan-led LDF govt’s swearing in; limit number of attendees to||The Kerala high court has been petitioned by Left Democratic Party state president George Sebastian to shift the venue for the swearing-in ceremony of Pinarayi Vijayan-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) government from Central Stadium to Raj Bhavan, official residence of the governor, owing to the prevalent Covid-19 situation in the state.In the letter sent to the Chief Justice of the Kerala high court, Sebastian also asked the court to limit the number of attendees to 50 in order to ensure proper Covid-19 protocols are followed during the ceremony. The Kerala chapter of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) had urged the new cabinet to hold a virtual swearing-in ceremony as the state is currently tackling a resurgent second wave of Covid-19."The new government that knows the mind of the people and that upholds a scientific perspective is coming to power and at a time if the swearing-in is through a virtual platform will give a good message of prevention," IMA said in a statement.Sebastian asked the court to take up the letter, sent via the registrar general, as a petition of its own. As attempts to file a case earlier were unsuccessful due to disputes over e-filing. He also mentioned that similar letters sent to the Vijayan, the governor, and the chief secretary have not solicited a response. Vijayan, citing experts, told reporters on Monday that Kerala is past the peak of the second wave but urged citizens to exercise caution.The returning LDF government, which has invited 500 guests to the ceremony, had decided to hold the swearing-in ceremony at the Central stadium because of its capacity to house 50,000 attendees, which would help in ensuring Covid-appropriate behaviour is maintained. 140 newly elected MLAs, 29 members of Parliament of the state, members of the judiciary and media have reportedly been invited to the ceremony.Kerala reported 21,402 new cases of Covid-19 on Monday, taking the state-wide tally of cases to 21,39,314. Triple lockdown has been enforced in the districts of Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam, Thrissur, and Malappuram to reign in the massive surge of cases there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-high-court-petitioned-to-shift-venue-of-pinarayi-vijayan-led-ldf-govt-s-swearing-in-limit-number-of-attendees-to-50-101621334039635.html
18-05-2021||India||Kerala health minister KK Shailaja not part of Pinarayi Vijayan's new cabinet||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) on Tuesday announced the release of one of the stalwart members of the previous cabinet KK Shailaja of the Pinarayi Vijayan-led government in Kerala, reported news agency ANI. KK Shailaja held the health portfolio in Vijayan's previous government and was known for the contribution and efforts against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.Vijayan's new cabinet is composed of 11 fresh faces. The state committee of the Marxist party chaired by senior leader Elamaram Kareem elected Vijayan to lead the party and decided to entrust Shailaja with the position of party whip, as per a statement, reported PTI. The state committee meeting of the party was held at AKG Centre.Also read| Kerala Cabinet: CM’s son-in-law gets berth; all old ministers droppedShailaja gained popularity soon after the pandemic hit the country due to her rapid response to the danger of the fatal disease. By the time the first Covid-19 case arrived, on January 27, the state was already equipped with the World Health Organization's (WHO) protocol of test, trace, isolate and support. All flights into the state's international airports were halted even before the country went under the world's most strict lockdown.She garnered major international media attention, with The Guardian calling her the 'coronavirus slayer'. The Washington Post, BBC World, and other international non-English speaking media houses are following her since the success she gained in containing the Nipah virus that hit the southern state in 2018.Shailaja's handling of the migrant labourer issues and the start of the community kitchen programmes to ease the difficulty of the locals when the nationwide lockdown was imposed also helped her come into the global spotlight.Also read| Virus in Singapore can be India's 3rd wave, very dangerous for kids: Kejriwal"We have also been accommodating and feeding 150,000 migrant workers from neighbouring states who were trapped here by the lockdown," The Guardian reported Shailja as saying. “We fed them properly – three meals a day for six weeks," she also said.Vijayan led the Left Front to victory in the April 6 state assembly elections. It will be the second straight term for Vijayan to govern the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-health-minister-kk-shailaja-not-part-of-pinarayi-vijayan-s-new-cabinet-101621328199227.html
18-05-2021||India||Delhi’s Covid-19 tally dips further with 4,482 cases; positivity rate drops to 6.89%||The national capital region of Delhi recorded 4,482 cases of coronavirus infections (Covid-19) in the previous 24 hours, pushing the cumulative case tally to 14,02,873, and 265 related deaths, a health bulletin released by the government on Tuesday showed. The positivity rate has significantly dropped to 6.89% from 8.42% on Monday, when the city had logged 4,524 cases, the lowest since April 5.The active case in the national capital now stands at 50,863 while 22,111 people have succumbed to the viral disease since the pandemic struck last year, taking the mortality rate to 1.58%. The health bulletin showed as many as 65,004 samples were tested in the 24-hour span out of the overall 18407486 samples that have been diagnosed so far in the city.Meanwhile, the total recoveries touched 13,29,899, of which 9,403 were discharged in the previous 24 hours, according to the data. As many as 1,13,310 people were vaccinated during this period, taking the cumulative number of those vaccinated so far to 47,15,785.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-s-covid-tally-dips-further-with-4-482-cases-positivity-rate-down-to-6-89-101621332061879.html
18-05-2021||India||Kerala Cabinet: CM’s son-in-law gets berth; all old ministers dropped||The ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) on Tuesday sprang a surprise by dropping all ministers of the outgoing Pinarayi Vijayan government. The most notable among them is health minister KK Shailaja, who was the face of the fight against pandemic in the state. Only Vijayan has retained his spot and his son-in-law, PA Mohamad Riyas, is among his new Cabinet colleagues. Party secretary A Vijayaraghavan’s wife R Bindu also figured in the new ministry. Party sources said while many favoured a second term for Shailaja, others argued that an exception could not be made for her if it was an entirely new team this time around. While political observers said Shailaja’s popularity came in her way, there are reports that many senior Left leaders, including Brinda Karat, have expressed strong reservations over her exclusion. Also Read | Triple lockdown in Kerala: Check out new restrictions“It is a sad development. The most popular face was removed in the name of [inducting] fresh blood... The effective handling of the pandemic situation was one of the reasons for the party’s return to power. If the whole team was changed, then it should have been applicable to the captain also,” said political analyst NM Pearson. Shailaja’s popularity was quite evident in the just-concluded assembly elections as well -- she emerged victorious from Mattanur constituency in Kannur with a majority of over 60,000 votes, the highest margin in the state. The public health crisis brought the best out of the unassuming physics teacher in the last five years-- whether it was the Nipah outbreak of 2018 and Covid-19 two years later, she was at the forefront. Meanwhile, two women have found a place in the new Cabinet: Veena George and R Bindu. Other ministers are MV Govindan, P Rajeev, KN Balagopal, V Sivankutty, VN Vasavan, Saji Cherian, K Radhakrishnan, Mohamad Riyas, and V Abdul Rahaman. Former Lok Sabha MP MB Rajesh was elected the assembly Speaker. Of the 20 ministerial slots, the CPI(M) has 12, CPI four, Kerala Congress( Mani) and Janata Dal (Secular) get one berth each. Four other smaller parties with single MLAs each will get berths on rotational basis -- two will become ministers for 30 months and the other two will be elevated during the next 30. CPI has also announced its four ministers, all new faces, K Rajan, P Prasad, JR Anil, and Chinju Rani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-cabinet-cm-s-son-in-law-gets-berth-all-old-ministers-dropped-101621330873460.html
18-05-2021||India||Coronavirus variant found in Singapore can be India's 3rd wave, extremely dangerous for kids, warns Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday warned the Centre of a new variant of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) found in Singapore and said that it can result in India's third wave.The virus, Kejriwal said, is extremely dangerous for children and asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government to immediately halt air services with Singapore and prioritise vaccination drive for children."The new form of Corona that came to Singapore is being said to be extremely dangerous for children, in India it may come as a third wave. My appeal to the central government are air services with Singapore to be cancelled with immediate effect and prioritise the options for vaccinating children at the earliest," the Delhi chief minister tweeted.सिंगापुर में आया कोरोना का नया रूप बच्चों के लिए बेहद ख़तरनाक बताया जा रहा है, भारत में ये तीसरी लहर के रूप में आ सकता है।केंद्र सरकार से मेरी अपील:1. सिंगापुर के साथ हवाई सेवाएं तत्काल प्रभाव से रद्द हों2. बच्चों के लिए भी वैक्सीन के विकल्पों पर प्राथमिकता के आधार पर काम होThe warning comes as the national capital has started showing signs of gradual recovery. The number of daily cases has come down from the highest seen last month at more than 28,000 to less than 5,000 recorded on Tuesday.By evening, Singapore’s health ministry responded with a sharp rebuttal that stressed that no new coronavirus strain had been detected in the city-state.“There is no truth whatsoever in the assertions found within the reports. There is no “Singapore variant”. The strain that is prevalent in many of the COVID-19 cases in recent weeks is the B.1.617.2 variant, which originated in India. Phylogenetic testing has shown this B.1.617.2 variant to be associated with several clusters in Singapore,” its health ministry said in a statement.Also read: Health ministry releases list of blood clot symptoms to watch out for after taking CovishieldSouth Asian countries like Singapore and Taiwan, lauded as success stories in containing Covid-19, are both rapidly imposing aggressive restrictions at home - and tightening travel between each other.In Singapore, indoor dining at restaurants has been banned and working from home will now be the default, as the city-state re-imposed lockdown-like measures it last ordered a year ago. Seven schools will switch to home-based learning to “ring-fence” those affected by infections, as the city-state makes plans to vaccinate those below 16 years old.Officials have urged Singapore residents to wear masks and avoid activities that require “masks to be down,” such as eating and drinking with others “for the next 3-6 weeks”.Singapore’s latest curbs, announced on May 14, will remain in effect for one month, until June 13, according to the health ministry. The country added 38 new local cases on Sunday, 18 of which are currently unlinked to known clusters.On April 29, Singapore’s daily community cases of Covid-19 climbed to the highest in more than nine months, with a cluster formed in one of the biggest hospitals in the country and another from a worker at Changi Airport. This prompted the officials to put the country on heightened alert.Also read: Suspected symptoms of thromboembolic events after Covid-19 vaccination. All you need to knowThe outbreaks and virus-control measures threaten the reopening progress of regional travel. Singapore had previously allowed travellers from Taiwan to enter without a quarantine. On Saturday, it announced a ban on the entry of short-term visitors with travel history to Taiwan in the past 21 days, while requiring citizens, permanent residents and long-term pass holders to quarantine when they arrive.(With inputs from Bloomberg)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/singapore-virus-can-be-india-s-3rd-wave-extremely-dangerous-for-kids-warns-arvind-kejriwal-101621329215829.html
18-05-2021||India||SC judge BR Gavai recuses himself from hearing Param Bir Singh’s plea||A new bench of the Supreme Court will now hear the petition filed by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh for a CBI inquiry into his complaint against Mumbai Police threatening him to withdraw his graft charge against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh.On Tuesday, when the matter came up before a Vacation Bench of justices Vineet Saran and BR Gavai, the latter said, “I cannot hear the matter.” For Singh, senior advocate Puneet Bali appeared and opened arguments claiming that a witch-hunt is on against him ever since he write a complaint on March 20 to the chief minister exposing the “money collection scheme” run by Deshmukh.The bench, without going into the merits of the case, directed the petition to be listed before another bench in view of the reservation expressed by Justice Gavai. No reason was cited by the judge for not hearing the matter. In his complaint dated March 20 this year, Singh had accused Deshmukh of running a “money collection scheme” through the police department. The complaint was made three days after Singh was transferred to a low-key post in Mumbai Police’s Home Guards. The transfer was in the wake of Singh’s alleged mishandling of a case in which explosives were found in an abandoned vehicle outside Mukesh Ambani’s Antilia residence in Mumbai, and the subsequent arrest of suspended police officer Sachin Vaze in the case. CBI is already investigating Singh’s complaint but is yet to file a final report. Also Read | Plea to cancel CBSE, ICSE class XII exams filed in SCIn his latest plea filed through advocate Natasha Dalmia, Singh has accused Mumbai Police’s inquiry officer of threatening to foist “multiple injuries and investigations” on him if he does not withdraw his complaint against Deshmukh. This allegation formed part of a representation made by Singh with the CBI on April 19 with which he attached the transcript of his conversation with the said officer as evidence. The petitioner has further requested the apex court to direct the Maharashtra government and Mumbai Police to transfer all inquiries already ordered or under contemplation against him to an independent investigation agency outside the state or preferably the CBI. The former top cop has also demanded blanket protection against any inquiry or coercive action by police. Singh had earlier moved the apex court in March this year, asking for an independent probe to expose the alleged malpractices of Deshmukh before he could get any chance to destroy evidence. The court had refused to entertain his plea and asked Singh to approach Bombay high court instead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-judge-br-gavai-recuses-himself-from-hearing-param-bir-singh-s-plea-101621327813788.html
18-05-2021||India||Google rolls out News Showcase in India; to train 50,000 journalists, students||Google has launched its global product called News Showcase in India. It is a programme to pay news publishers for their content online. The tech giant has partnered with a number of publishers in India, including HT Digital Streams, one of the largest print publishers in India. It allows partnering publishers to curate content and provide limited access to paywalled stories for users.“As an established media house, engaging with our audiences through quality content in convenient and innovative ways is a huge area of focus for us. We are pleased to partner with Showcase to build on the same and help us access new users,” said Paras Sharma, head of news partnerships, HT Digital Streams Ltd.As part of the initiative, the content from publishers will begin to appear in dedicated News Showcase panels in Google News and on Discover pages in English and Hindi. Support for more local languages will be added in the future.Google said the investment will help people "find quality journalism, contribute to the sustainability of news organizations, and expand its programs under the Google News initiative". The company highlighted the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic to drive home the point of needing authoritative news and information.The India launch will build on News Showcase deals signed by Google with 700 news publications in more than a dozen countries, including Germany, Brazil, Canada, France, Japan, the UK Australia, Czechia, Italy and Argentina. The company further said that it is in talks with publishers in several other countries as well.News publishers have long fought the world's most popular internet search engine for compensation for using their content, with European media groups leading the charge.Google said in October last year that it planned to pay $1 billion to publishers globally for their news over the next three years via Showcase.The company said that with Showcase, it is expanding the Google News initiative efforts in India. Google plans to train 50,000 journalists and journalism students over the next three years in a bid to strengthen digital skills in newsrooms. It has also introduced several new programs to help small and mid-sized publications achieve financial sustainability.These new and expanded programs build on years of investment in India, said the tech giant starting from 2018 when it launched the Google News India training network.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/google-rolls-out-news-showcase-in-india-to-train-50-000-journalists-students-101621327188632.html
18-05-2021||India||PM interacts with DMs of worst-hit districts on Covid management||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday held an online interaction with chief ministers and district magistrates of the districts that have been worst affected in the second wave of the pandemics, and asked them to convey their best practices to him so that these can be shared widely. He also called the district administration “field commanders” who are in the frontline of the war against the pandemic. “All of you have an important role in this war against Corona. You are the field commander of this war in a way, who give shape to the policy, and fight on the ground and take decisions according to the situation,” he said. The PM referred to local containment zones, aggressive testing and providing correct and complete information to the people as “weapons against this virus.” The interaction was held to receive feedback from states on the measures taken to reduce the spread of the infection, ramp up medical infrastructure and other initiatives taken by the administration. “I want to tell you… if you think that the government policy at the district level needs innovation in the policy to strengthen it, you have the freedom to do so. If you think the innovation that you have made is good for the whole district or the country, it should be sent to the government. If you think there is a need to make any change in the policy, give us that feedback also without any hesitation because the war is such that we all need to think together and innovate together,” the PM said. In the wake of complaints from states over the availability of Covid vaccines, the PM assured that there is a plan to ensure that states get a 15-day advance schedule of available vaccine. “Vaccine wastage must be stopped and optimum utilisation is a must,” he added. The PM also cautioned that there is a need to remain vigilant even in places where the daily numbers are dipping. “We have to stop the scale of infection from rising by taking correct steps such as testing, tracking, isolation and adopting Covid appropriate behaviour,” he said. Also Read | Arrests over PM Modi’s posters ‘illegal’, says plea in Supreme CourtHe also called for attention to rural areas as well as in remote areas. “We have to ensure that there is health infrastructure to meet challenges... this should be done on a priority basis,” he said. The PM said during the first wave last year, many villages had devised their own best practices. “Last time, there was no lockdown of the farming sector. I was astonished to see how villagers were maintaining social distancing even while working in the fields. They grasped the information and modified it according to their needs. This is the strength of villages,” he said. While he asked the states to ensure strict compliance to Covid appropriate behavior, he said attention should be given to “ease of living” to ensure minimal inconvenience to people, and called for action against those involved in black marketing of critical medicines, and equipment such as Remdesivir, oxygen concentrators, and oxygen cylinders. The PM also instructed the administrators to keep up the morale of those on frontlines and of those in home isolation. “As a large section of people are in home isolation, it creates confidence in them to fight the challenge better if somebody from the administration visits them and supplies oxymeters or drugs. This should be done at all district levels,” the PM said. He said all preparations must be made in states where hospitals are scheduled to receive oxygen plants through the PM-CARES fund. Union home minister Amit Shah and health secretary Rajesh Bhushan were also present in the meeting with the CM’s from states such as Delhi, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Uttarakhand. District magistrates of Patna, Bengaluru urban, Indore, Coimbatore, Dehradun, Shimoga, and Kolar were also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-interacts-with-dms-of-worst-hit-districts-on-covid-management-101621326853335.html
18-05-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccine protocol for children should already be in place, tweets Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi took to Twitter on Tuesday to lash out at the central government on the country’s preparedness in tackling Covid-19 in children through vaccination and paediatric services. He said that necessary protocols should already be put into place by the Union government.“In the time to come, children will need protection from Corona. Paediatric services and vaccine-treatment protocol should already be in place,” Gandhi tweeted.“India’s future needs for the present Modi ‘system’ to be shaken out of sleep,” he added.Gandhi’s words come as countries all over the globe are taking steps to approve Covid-19 vaccination in children. The US approved the Pfizer-BioNtech shot in adolescents and rolled out vaccination for those aged 12-15 on May 14. This vaccination drive aims to inoculate 17 million adolescents, and forms an integral part of President Joe Biden’s strategy to usher in herd immunity.Before the US, Canada had on May 5 approved the Pfizer-BioNTech shot in those between the ages of 12-15. The European Medical Agency is also in process of reviewing the use of Pfizer jab in children.India’s drug regulator had also granted permission to the makers of Covaxin, Bharat Biotech, to conduct trials in children between the ages of 2 and 18. The trials are expected to be carried out in 525 participants at hospitals all over the country. Experts have emphasised on the need to vaccinate those below 18 years of age for a proper opening up of schools, colleges and other educational institutions.Congress has been criticising the vaccine roll-out process and the Centre's decision to send vaccines to other countries before inoculating its domestic population. The latest retort by Gandhi has been preceded by similar criticism of the ruling government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccine-protocol-for-children-should-already-be-in-place-tweets-rahul-gandhi-101621325831910.html
18-05-2021||India||Portals of Badrinath shrine open, first prayers on behalf of PM Modi||The portals of Badrinath shrine in Chamoli district of Uttarakhand were opened on Tuesday with the first prayers being held on behalf of Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the welfare and good healh of all. The portals of all the Char Dhams, Badrinath, Kedarnath, Yamunotri, and Gangotri, are now open. The portals of Badrinath shrine were opened at 4.15am amid the rituals performed by the priests led by their head known as Rawal. The shrine has been decked up with 20 quintals of flowers. As Char Dham yatra has been postponed, only priests and some officials were present during the ceremony. Chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat congratulated all devotees on the opening of the portals, appealing to them to offer prayers from their homes. The portals of the Badrinath shrine were closed in November last year for the winter months following traditional rituals and safety protocols for Covid-19. Also Read | U’khand puts Char Dham yatra on hold amid spikeAccording to Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board officials, last year over 145,000 pilgrims visited the Badrinath shrine. Of the 310,000 pilgrims who went for Char Dham Yatra, 134,000 visited Kedarnath, 23,837 visited Gangotri and 7,731 visited Yamunotri. On April 29, the state government postponed the Char Dham pilgrimage to four of the holiest Hindu shrines in the state, which was scheduled to start on May 14. But portals of the shrines will remain open during the pilgrimage. Portals of the Yamunotri shrine were opened on May 14 and that of Gangotri on May 15. Portals of the Kedarnath shrine opened this Monday, May 17. Last year also, Char Dham yatra could not begin on schedule because of the lockdown imposed to check the spread of Covid-19. The shrines were opened for local pilgrims on July 1 last year and for those from other states in the last week of that month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/portals-of-badrinath-shrine-open-first-prayers-on-behalf-of-pm-modi-101621325534862.html
18-05-2021||India||'Efforts are being made to bolster supply of Covid-19 vaccines': PM Modi at virtual meet||Prime Minister Narendra Modi interacted with field officials from different states and districts on Tuesday to dicuss the Covid-19 situation. PM Modi told the attendees that the Union health ministry is undertaking continuous efforts to bolster supply of Covid-19 vaccines on a large scale.“Continuous efforts are being made to increase the supply of Covid vaccines on a large scale. The health ministry is streamlining the system and process of vaccination,” said PM Modi.The Prime Minister also said that to help officials get a better understanding of how many people need to be vaccinated in their district, and aid in preparing for the vaccination drive, attempts are underway to release the vaccination schedule 15 days in advance.“This will help you know that for how many people in the district the vaccine will be made available and how you should make preparations for that,” he said.PM Modi also urged the officials to pay attention to rural and remote regions of the country as the second wave of Covid-19 surges through these areas. He urged officials to undertake rigorous efforts to test, isolate, and treat those affected.“We have to pay a lot of attention to rural, remote regions in the second wave of Covid-19,” he said at the virtual meeting.He also emphasised on the importance of vaccination as the “strong way to fight Covid-19” asking them to weed out all myths about it.On Sunday, the union health ministry released a set of guidelines on tackling a surge of Covid-19 cases in rural areas. The guidelines suggested involvement of ASHA workers, who have been at the frontline of India’s battle against Covid, in conducting surveillance of influenza-like illness/severe acute respiratory infections(ILI/SARI) in villages.The daily tally of Covid-19 cases have been following a downward trend and recording fewer than 3 lakh daily cases since Monday. However, the number of single-day fatalities reached an all-time high on Tuesday, after 4,329 individuals succumbed to the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/efforts-are-being-made-to-bolster-supply-of-covid-19-vaccines-pm-modi-at-virtual-meet-101621325028044.html
18-05-2021||India||BJP leader posts ‘Congress documents’, says ‘elaborate plans’ to defame Modi||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Sambit Patra on Tuesday posted two purported documents of the Congress’s research department on Twitter and called them a toolkit with “elaborate plans” to defame Prime Minister Narendra Modi, politicise religion and help build a “biased narrative” over Covid-19 management and the Central Vista project.“Disgusting to say the least ...[Congress leader] Rahul Gandhi wanting to use this opportunity of Pandemic to destroy the image of PM Modi. Congress workers instructed to call the mutant strain as ‘Modi strain’ No stone left unturned to scar the name of India with the help of Foreign Journalists!!” Patra tweeted.Rajiv Gowda, who heads the Congress’s research department, immediately hit back and accused the BJP of propagating a fake “toolkit” on Covid-19 mismanagement and attributing it to his party. In a tweet, Gowda said, they will file a First Information Report over forgery against BJP chief JP Nadda and Patra. “When our country is devastated by Covid, instead of providing relief, BJP shamelessly concocts forgeries.”BJP is propagating a fake "toolkit" on “COVID-19 mismanagement” & attributing it to AICC Research Department. We are filing an FIR for forgery against @jpnadda & @sambitswarajWhen our country is devastated by COVID, instead of providing relief, BJP shamelessly concocts forgeriesGowda accepted the note on Central Vista was genuine but added that the one related to Covid was fake. “Someone has made a fake copy. I see all background papers before they are sent to the party. No such document has been prepared by us.”Also Read | Arrests over PM Modi’s posters ‘illegal’, says plea in Supreme CourtThe note on Central Vista flagged several issues including the environmental impact of shifting trees, continuation of work amid lockdown, and how the money could have been utilised for vaccination and monetary support for the pandemic-hit poor people.Patra claimed the note on Covid said the approval ratings of Modi have been high and have not dipped despite crisis and mismanagement. “This is an opportunity to destroy his image and erode his popularity.”In a TV interview, Patra read out from what he called the Congress’s toolkit. He claimed it suggested the use of resources created on social media “to question Modi’s incompetence from handles which look like Modi or BJP supporters” and to liaise with foreign journalists and Indian opinion writers in publications abroad and brief them on talking points. He insisted the Congress also wants to use dramatic pictures of funerals and dead bodies. “When WHO [World Health Organisation] has banned the use of the term India strain, the Congress toolkit wanted to coin ‘Modi strain’,” he said.The purported Congress document on Covid says it is BJP’s practice to “communalise increasingly susceptible Hindus for their own political gains” and gives guidelines on how to avoid a narrative of Eid and Kumbh. It purportedly also speaks of mobilising “former civil servants to raise questions about PM CARES Fund” and “If any celebrity donates to it, then “aggressively question them” or “embarrass” them on social media. The purported document suggests building a narrative that “Gujarat continues to get special treatment” from Modi and call the Central Vista project his “personal house” in panel discussions. The document also allegedly suggests that phrases like “Missing [Union home minister] Amit Shah”, “Quarantined [external affairs minister S] Jaishankar”, “Sidelined [defence minister] Rajnath Singh”, “Insensitive [Union finance minister] Nirmala Sitharaman,” could be used.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-leader-posts-congress-documents-says-elaborate-plans-to-defame-modi-101621325053382.html
18-05-2021||India||Chhattisgarh: 18 passengers injured as bus falls into ditch||At least 18 passengers were injured as a bus fell into a ditch in the early morning hours of Tuesday in Chhattisgarh’s Ambikapur, near the state’s Udaipur district. Three passengers, who were critical, were referred to Abikapur’s Government Medical College and Hospital, and are now reported to be out of danger.According to the sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) of Udaipur, the accident took place around 4am on Tuesday. The bus, a Mahindra company vehicle, was on its way to Jharkhand’s Garhwa from the Chhattisgarh’s capital city of Raipur. The vehicle fell into a ditch on the Raipur-Ambikapur highway in Gumga village, reportedly because the driver fell asleep, thus losing his control over it.As soon as the news spread, Udaipur SDM, police and other administrative officials arrived on the spot. According to reports, there were 35 passengers in the bus. The injured were rushed to a hospital in Udaipur of whom the three critical ones were then referred to Ambikapur.Another bus was later arranged to transfer the remaining passengers to their destination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-18-passengers-injured-as-bus-falls-into-ditch-101621322788161.html
18-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Petrol price crosses ₹99 per litre in Mumbai and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Fuel rates surge 10th time in May; petrol crosses ₹99/lt in MumbaiRising streak of fuel rates continued unabated for the tenth time in 15 days, making petrol costlier by ₹2.45 a litre and diesel by ₹2.78 since May 4 as state-run retailers on Tuesday raised petrol rate by 27 paise per litre and diesel by 29 paise a litre. Read moreNo new information: Cameron Bancroft backtracks on his claims on Sandpapergate - ReportAustralia cricketer Cameron Bancroft has reportedly backtracked on his recent claims regarding the 2018 Sandpapergate scandal that had rocked Cricket Australia. Read moreKangana Ranaut tests negative for Covid-19, but won't give tips on how to beat it for fear of 'covid fan clubs'Actor Kangana Ranaut has shared that she has tested negative for Covid-19. The actor mentioned how she has many tips on how to fight the disease but will not be sharing it with her followers. Read moreSpecial editions of Triumph Scrambler 900 and Scrambler 1200 launched in IndiaTriumph Motorcycles India on Tuesday announced the launch of two new special edition motorcycles in the country - the Street Scrambler 900 Sandstorm and the Scrambler 1200 Steve McQueen edition. Read moreThis hilarious representation of a museum during a pandemic may crack you up. WatchHave you ever wondered how the artists would’ve depicted their subjects in the famous paintings during the times of a pandemic? If your answer is no, then let this amusing video do the trick. Read moreWhy Covid 3rd wave will affect children more: Top virologist Dr V Ravi explainsTop virologist Dr V Ravi explains why the Covid-19 third wave will affect children more. Dr Ravi said typically new waves come three to five months after an older one subsides and planning for the potential third wave should begin right away to dampen its impact. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-petrol-price-crosses-rs-99-per-litre-in-mumbai-and-all-the-latest-news-101621321475144.html
18-05-2021||India||Odisha’s Dongaria Kondhs reject Covid tests, cases rise among vulnerable tribals||As Covid-19 spreads to at least 61 vulnerable tribal groups in the hinterlands of Odisha, the Dongaria Kondh tribals are resisting testing for the disease, officials said.After 19 Dongaria Kondh tribals-- one among the state’s 13 particularly vulnerable tribal groups (PVTG) tested Covid positive-- a medical camp was set up at Parsali on the foot of Niyamgiri hills for their mass testing. However, not a single tribal turned up with their leader telling the state government officials that they don’t trust the medical system.“We have talked to the head of the community and another round of discussion will be held. We will come tomorrow again for sample collection,” said Kalucharan Nayak, Kalyansingpur BDO (block development officer).The Dongaria Kondhs live in 36 villages under Kalyansinghpur block of Rayagada district and many of them were infected while selling their produce in daily vegetable markets.A community leader, who heads the Niyamgiri Suraksha Manch, Sakaka Ulaka said there was no point in testing for a disease that does not exist. “Nothing will happen to us as we worship Niyam Raja,” said Ulaka. Niyarmraja is the traditional deity of the Dongaria Kondhs.Officials and researchers said they may reject vaccination too. “They have their own belief system. They would rather believe in Dishari and Bejuni, their priests, than the modern medical system. As a tribal researcher working in a central government project, I have found it difficult to win their trust,” said PC Mohapatra of Koraput-based Council of Analytical Tribal Studies.Among the hundreds of tribal communities in the country, PVTG groups are more isolated, archaic, vulnerable, deprived and backward. They have been classified separately to ensure they get special attention.Since April, at least 61 PVTG members including Bondas, Dongaria Kondhs and Kharias have been infected with Covid-19 in Odisha. While 26 Bondas in Malkangiri district have tested positive, at least 16 Kharia tribals living inside Similipal biosphere of Mayurbhanj district too have tested positive.Dr Uttam Dash, a member of the quick response team said the tribals were being sensitised about the importance of social distancing and masks. “Many of the infected are in home isolation, but stable,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odishas-dongaria-kondhs-reject-covid-tests-cases-rise-among-vulnerable-tribals-101621322233249.html
18-05-2021||India||270 doctors have died in second wave of Covid-19, says IMA||The Indian Medical Association said on Tuesday that the country lost 270 doctors in the second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, which has been more deadly and fast spreading. Former IMA president Dr KK Aggarwal was the latest to succumb to the deadly infection on Monday.According to the state-wide data released by the medical body, Bihar saw the maximum number of 78 deaths of medical practitioners, followed by Uttar Pradesh (37), Delhi (29) and Andhra Pradesh (22).The IMA said that 748 doctors succumbed to the disease in the first wave of the pandemic."The second wave of the pandemic is turning out to be extremely fatal for all and especially for the healthcare workers who are at the forefront," IMA president Dr JA Jayalal was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.The doctors and other healthcare and frontline workers were inoculated in the first phase of the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination programme which started on January 16 this year. The programme was latest expanded to first include those above the age of 60, and later opened for 45-plus category.From May 1, those in the age group of 18-44 became eligible for Covid-19 vaccine shots in the third phase of inoculation drive.On Monday, the Union health ministry said that the cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 18.44 crore. Among the people who were given 18,44,22,218 doses were 96,58,913 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have taken the first dose and 66,52,200 who have taken the second dose; 1,44,97,411 Frontline Workers (FLWs) who have received the first dose and 82,16,750 who have taken the second dose.On day 122 of the vaccination drive (May 17), 14,79,592 vaccine doses were given, the ministry said.The vaccination exercise as a tool to protect the most vulnerable population groups in the country from Covid-19 continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level, the ministry added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/270-doctors-have-dies-in-second-wave-of-covid-19-says-ima-101621321701122.html
18-05-2021||India||270 doctors have died of Covid-19 in second wave of pandemic: IMA||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Tuesday said 270 doctors across the country have succumbed to the coronavirus infection in the second wave of the pandemic so far.The list of the deceased doctors includes former IMA president Dr K K Aggarwal, who succumbed to the deadly virus on Monday.Bihar saw the maximum number of 78 deaths of medical practitioners, followed by Uttar Pradesh (37), Delhi (29) and Andhra Pradesh (22).According to the IMA Covid-19 registry, 748 doctors succumbed to the disease in the first wave of the pandemic."Last year, 748 doctors across India succumbed to Covid-19, while in the current wave, in a short period, we have lost 270 doctors."The second wave of the pandemic is turning out to be extremely fatal for all and especially for the healthcare workers who are at the forefront," IMA president Dr JA Jayalal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/270-doctors-have-died-of-covid-19-in-second-wave-of-pandemic-ima-101621317816356.html
18-05-2021||India||India records highest single-day fatalities since the onset of Covid-19 pandemic||India witnessed a record number of Covid-19 fatalities on Tuesday as 4,329 people succumbed to the infection in the last 24 hours, the highest single-day deaths since the beginning of the pandemic. The nation-wide death toll now stands at 2,78,719.Prior to this the country had recorded 4,205 deaths on May 12. The country also recorded 2,63,533 fresh cases of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours. Tuesday’s death toll marks an increase from the 4,106 fatalities that were recorded on Monday.This grim milestone in the country’s battle against Covid-19 comes a few days after the World Health Organization (WHO) chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus expressed concern over the rising number of new cases, deaths, and hospitalisations in India."India remains hugely concerning, with several states continuing to see a worrying number of cases, hospitalisations and deaths," Ghebreyesus said on May 14 during a daily press briefing.The data released by the Union ministry also showed daily recoveries went up by a huge margin, as 4,22,436 individuals were discharged on Tuesday after they made a full recovery. The daily number of fresh cases stayed below the 3 lakh mark for the first time on Monday, a positive trend that stuck around on Tuesday too. The country had started recording upwards of 3 lakh cases a day from April 22 onwards.Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to hold a virtual meeting today, on the prevailing Covid-19 situation in the country, with administrative officials at 11am from the states of Karnataka, Bihar, Assam, Chandigarh, Tamil Nadu, Uttarakhand, Madhya Pradesh, Goa, Himachal Pradesh, and Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-highest-single-day-fatalities-since-the-onset-of-covid-19-pandemic-101621315277712.html
18-05-2021||India||Narada sting: Two Bengal ministers spent night in jail as HC stayed bail||West Bengal cabinet ministers Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee spent the night in Kolkata’s Presidency Correctional Home after the Calcutta high court stayed their bail on Monday night in connection with the 2016 Narada sting operation. Ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) legislator Madan Mitra and former mayor of Kolkata, Sovan Chatterjee, the two others arrested in the case, had to be hospitalised after they complained of illness.The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Monday arrested the four on charges of bribery and corruption in the Narada case, triggering fierce protests by the TMC and a six-hour agitation by chief minister Mamata Banerjee.A special CBI court granted bail to the four, but the high court stayed the order late on Monday. The case will be next heard on Wednesday.Mitra and Chatterjee had to be hospitalised around 4 am on Tuesday. Chatterjee is diabetic, his friend Baisakhi Banerjee said. Mitra had earlier tested positive for Covid-19.Also Read | Narada case: TMC targets Bengal Guv Dhankhar over prosecution sanction“I am having breathing trouble. We are elected representatives. We are not thieves and dacoits. They [CBI] should not have treated us like this,” Mitra told reporters while being shifted to the hospital.A jail official said that Hakim and Mukherjee could also be sent for a check-up on Tuesday. Mukherjee had gone to the hospital along with Mitra and Chatterjee but later returned to the jail. “I am not keeping well. I may have to go for a check-up on Tuesday,” Mukherjee told reporters at the hospital early on Tuesday.Hakim said as the chairman of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation’s board of administrators, he was supervising the Covid-19 management. “They [CBI] did not allow me to save the people of Kolkata. I was in charge and looking after the management of vaccines, arranging ambulance, and disposing of the dead bodies in the city. I have full faith in the judiciary,” he told journalists before being taken into custody.A jail official said both Hakim and Mukherjee skipped dinner and took a stroll in the morning. They have been lodged in a special cell.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/narada-sting-two-bengal-ministers-spent-night-in-jail-as-hc-stayed-bail-101621312274066.html
18-05-2021||India||Padma Shri awardee Dr KK Aggarwal succumbs to Covid-19||Former national president of the Indian Medical Association and Padma Shri awardee Dr KK Aggarwal died of Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) late on Monday night.Aggarwal, 62, died due to Covid-19 related complications at 11.30pm at New Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS).According to hospital sources, Dr Aggarwal’s condition was critical and he had been on ventilator support for the past few days.Also Read | India’s Covid-19 tally tops 25 million with 263,533 new casesA statement was uploaded on his Twitter profile that confirmed the news. “It causes us immense pain to inform you that our dear Dr KK Aggarwal passed away at 11.30pm on May 17, 2021, in New Delhi, after a lengthy battle with Covid-19...,” it read.“Even during the pandemic, he made constant efforts to educate the masses and was able to reach out to 100 million people through numerous videos and videos and educational programmes and saved countless lives. He wanted his life to be celebrated And not mourned,” the statement read.Dr Aggarwal was awarded Padma Shri in 2010. He was also awarded Dr BC Roy award. He was currently the president of the Heart Care Foundation of India. Dr Aggarwal did his MBBS from Nagpur University in 1979.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/padma-shri-awardee-dr-kk-aggarwal-succumbs-to-covid19-101621311433132.html
18-05-2021||India||US will share 80mn spare Covid vaccines, says President Biden; India may benefit||President Joe Biden on Monday announced that the United States will begin shipping 20 million doses of Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna, and Johnson & Johnson’s Covid-19 vaccines to unspecified needy countries by June end, in addition to the 60 million shots of AstraZeneca’s that have already been pledged for distribution subject to authorisation by the drug regulator.Though there are no indications of the proportion in which these 80 million doses will be distributed and to which countries, it is reliably understood that India will be among the recipients. But, once again, there is no word on what it will get — AstraZeneca, which is already made and distributed in India as Covishield, or the ones by Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna, and Johnson & Johnson.AstraZeneca’s vaccine is not authorised for use in the United States yet — it has not even sought it — but the company is pre-contracted to supply 60 million doses whenever it is given the green light. Four million of them have already been committed to Canada and Mexico, the two closest neighbours.“Today, I’m announcing that we’ll also share US-authorised vaccines doses of Pfizer, Moderna, and Johnson & Johnson, as they become available, with the rest of the world as well,” Biden said.Also Read | White House defends diplomacy over Israel-Gaza crisisThey will begin shipping “by the end of June”, he added, “when we’ll have taken delivery of enough of such vaccines to protect everyone in the United States”.Observers described the Monday announcement as the most explicit commitment by the Biden administration to share vaccines that it can spare. Around 48% of Americans have received at least one of the two-shot Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna vaccines and one of single-dose Johnson & Johnson’s. The country appears confident enough that it has turned the corner to allow those fully vaccinates to go without masks entirely, both indoors and outdoors.As per Biden’s announcement, the United States will be sending over the next six weeks 80 million doses overseas, which is 13 % of vaccines produced by the United States by the end of June. “This will be more vaccines than any country has actually shared to date -- five times more than any other country -- more than Russia and China, which have donated 15 million doses,” the American president said, keeping the two main US adversaries in the crosshairs.President Biden has been under increasing pressure from his own party lawmakers to send vaccines to countries that need them, including India, increasingly in the wake of the aggressive second wave that has caused unanticipated devastation.The Institute of Health Metrics and Evaluation, a highly regarded and independent global research body based in the United States, has projected 1.24 million cumulative deaths in India because of Covid-19, which has emerged as the leading killer in last some weeks.The Biden administration has sent $100 million worth of assistance to India in the wake of the recent surge in Covid-19 cases, including oxygen concentrators and related supplies, therapeutics such as Remdesivir, personal protective equipment, and rapid diagnostic kits.The Biden administration has also released raw materials Indian vaccine maker Serum Institute of India needs to ramp up productions of AstraZeneca/Covishield vaccines and, most significantly from policy perspective, backed India and South Africa’s joint proposal to the WTO to temporarily waive patents to Covid-19 vaccines to ensure their widest and most equitable distribution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-will-share-80mn-spare-covid-vaccines-says-president-biden-india-may-benefit-101621309932775.html
18-05-2021||India||India sees 263,533 new Covid-19 cases, highest single-day death toll of 4,329||India registered 263,533 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, taking the country’s infection tally to 25,228,996, the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) dashboard showed on Tuesday morning. Also, in this period, 4,329 lives were lost to the viral disease, taking the related death toll to 278,719, the dashboard further showed. This is the highest single-day death toll in the country since the beginning of the pandemic.Click here for all latest Covid-19 updatesThough India registered a marginal rise in its new Covid-19 cases, it was for a second consecutive day that there were less than 300,000 cases. On Monday, the ministry’s dashboard showed that 281,386 people tested positive for Covid-19 in the preceding 24 hours, making it the first time in several days that India’s Covid-19 tally increased by less than 300,000 fresh infections from a single-day. However, the related daily death toll, which has oscillated between more than 4,000 fatalities per day to nearly 4,000 fatalities a day, was recorded at 4,106.Also Read | Health ministry releases list of blood clot symptoms to watch out for after taking CovishieldAccording to Tuesday's data, recovered cases have reached 21,596,512 with 422,436 additional discharges, while active cases are at 3,353,765, down by 163,232 from the previous bulletin. Recoveries, active cases and deaths together contribute 85.60%, 13.30% and 1.10% respectively of the national tally.The number of samples tested in the last 24 hours also witnessed a rise, with 1,869,223 samples tested in this period, up from 1,573,515 from the 24-hour period before that, the government-run Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) tweeted on Tuesday. Total 318,292,881 samples have been tested till May 17, the ICMR data showed.COVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/eSTyBIRw8FCOVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/QVbvMa8Me8The relative fall in India’s daily cases of the coronavirus disease comes on the back of drop in cases in several states and Union territories (UTs), where curbs like lockdowns, mini-lockdowns, corona curfew etc. were imposed, or extended, to break the chain of transmission of the infection. Capital Delhi and the financial hub of Maharashtra, where a lockdown and lockdown-like curbs are in place, respectively, witnessed a rise of 4,524 and 26,616 infections on Monday, as per their health departments’ bulletins. This was for the first time since April 5 that Delhi’s daily count was less than 5,000, while Maharashtra has, in the past, logged a daily caseload of more than 60,000, which has undergone a steady fall in the last few days.Also Read | Maha daily Covid cases continue to drop, state records 26,616 fresh infectionsLater in the day on Tuesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a virtual interaction with officials from Karnataka, Bihar, Assam, Chandigarh, Tamil Nadu, Uttarakhand, Goa, Himachal Pradesh and Delhi to discuss the pandemic situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-covid-19-tally-tops-25-million-with-263-533-new-cases-101621305443553.html
18-05-2021||India||Ramesh Pokhriyal to hold meeting with VCs of Central Universities on Tuesday||Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank will meet all Vice Chancellors of Central Universities virtually on May 18 to review the online education amid Covid-19.In this virtual meeting, the minister will also talk about the planning and implementation of the New Education Policy-2020.In the wake of the second wave of Covid-19, the Union Education Ministry has cancelled the Class 10 CBSE board exam and postponed the CBSE board exam of Class 12.The ministry has also postponed all exams of higher education scheduled in May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ramesh-pokhriyal-to-hold-meeting-with-vcs-of-central-universities-on-tuesday-101621308729994.html
18-05-2021||India||Eminent cardiologist Dr KK Aggarwal dies of Covid-19||Padma Shri awardee and eminent cardiologist Dr KK Aggarwal has died of Covid-19, a statement posted on his Twitter handle said.Aggarwal (62), who was the former national president of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), was admitted to the AIIMS here and was on ventilator support since last week.According to the statement, he passed away at 11.30 pm on Monday after a "lengthy battle with Covid-19"."Even during the pandemic, he made constant efforts to educate the masses and was able to reach out to 100 million people through numerous videos and educational programmes and saved countless lives. He wanted his life to be celebrated and not mourned," the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eminent-cardiologist-dr-kk-aggarwal-dies-of-covid19-101621308451193.html
18-05-2021||India||Calcutta HC sends TMC leaders to jail after CBI cites Mamata Banerjee’s dharna||The Calcutta high court on Monday night stayed the bail granted to two TMC ministers, a legislator and former leader of the party in the Narada sting operation case after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) requested transfer of the case citing a security threat to officers of the probe agency.To back its contention, the CBI cited chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s visit to the CBI office at Nizam Palace in south Kolkata and demonstration by TMC workers, some of whom also pelted stones, after urban development minister Firhad Hakim, panchayat minister Subrata Mukherjee, Kamarhati MLA Madan Mitra and former Kolkata mayor Sovan Chatterjee, who left the ruling party, were arrested from their homes on Monday morning. The TMC workers assembled outside Nizam Palace after the accused were brought there.The accused leaders were taken to Presidency correctional home around 1.30 am on Tuesday. The convoy of cars left Nizam Palace amid tight security after their mandatory health examination.Also Watch | Narada Case: Arrested TMC leaders taken to jail after CBI challenged their bailChallenging the bail granted to the accused by the special CBI court in Kolkata during a virtual hearing on Monday afternoon, the CBI told the bench of acting chief justice Rajesh Bindal and justice Arijit Banerjee that the CM sat on a “dharna” outside the CBI office with her supporters and law minister Moloy Ghatak was present at the CBI court, where the accused were to be physically presented, “along with 2,000 to 3,000 supporters.”The agency also alleged that TMC Lok Sabha member Kalyan Bandopadhyay forcibly entered the CBI office and heckled the officers and staff.The order of the high court was available late on Monday night. The CBI was represented by Tushar Mehta, solicitor general of India and Y J Dastoor, additional solicitor general. The state was represented by Kishore Dutta, advocate general and some other senior lawyers. The case was heard virtually. The court described it as an “extraordinary situation.”Adjourning the hearing till Wednesday and ordering judicial custody for the accused, the court said, “In our opinion aforesaid facts are sufficient to take cognizance of the present matter with reference to the request of the learned Solicitor General of India for examination of the issue regarding transfer of the trial. We are not touching the merits of the controversy but the manner in which pressure was sought to be put will not inspire confidence of the people in the rule of law. As during the period when the arguments were heard, the order was passed by the Court below, we deem it appropriate to stay that order and direct that the accused person shall be treated to be in judicial custody till further orders.”The order said Dastoor told the bench that a mail from the CBI “pointed out certain glaring facts regarding the manner in which the chief minister, law minister and other senior ministers of the government in the state of West Bengal, along with their supporters in thousands, were obstructing CBI in discharge of its official duties.”“Immediately after their arrest, as they are political leaders of the party in power in the state, [a] number of followers gheraoed the CBI office in Nizam Palace area and did not allow the CBI officers to move out of their office to enable them to produce the accused in court. The matter did not end here. The chief minister of West Bengal Smt. Mamta Banerjee also arrived at the spot at 10.50 hours and sat on dharna along with the mob. Unconditional release of the accused was sought from the CBI office itself. It was under these circumstances that the matter was mentioned before this Court immediately in the afternoon today seeking a direction to the state to allow the CBI to discharge its function and enable them to produce the accused in court,” said the high court, referring to Dastoor’s prayer.The court also noted that the SG had submitted that the CBI had registered the case on the court’s direction and arrested some members of the state cabinet, but their supporters surrounded the CBI office in protest. “The crowd was 2,000 to 3,000. Stone pelting was resorted to. Some of the supporters even entered the office of CBI and manhandled the staff present there,” the court said, referring to Mehta’s argument.“It is a case in which there is total failure of rule of law. The justice is not only to be done but seen to have been done. It is a case in which pressure was sought to be put on the officer concerned with [the] mob and the chief minister and the law minister and other ministers directly present there along with [the] mob. Referring to the provisions of Section 407 Cr.P.C., he submitted that the provision clearly provides for different situations under which trial of the case can be transferred by this Court. In case there is apprehension that fair and impartial trial is not possible or it is expedient in the ends of justice. This power can be exercised even suo-motu by this Court seeing the entire facts situation,” the court said, referring to Mehta’s argument.Section 407 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (Cr.PC) empowers a high court to transfer the hearing of a case on several grounds including the possibility of law and order problem.The advocate general countered Mehta’s arguments and demand for transfer of the case.“As the issue of law and order in the state had arisen, the learned advocate general was requested to assist the Court. He submitted that Nizam Palace where the CBI office is situated, the major part of it is protected by para military forces. Whenever any senior leader of the party is arrested, supporters always collect there. Senior police officers along with 100 police officials were on duty and no untoward incident was allowed to happen. CBI officers were provided full protection by the local police for discharge of their duty. There is no official complaint filed by the CBI with the police about any incident,” said the court citing the advocate general’s argument.The court went on to note that while the state government argued against transfer of enquiry or trial of the case citing necessary procedure and pre-conditions, the CBI said it could be done by the court if it was “expedient in the ends of justice” while citing Mamata Banerjee’s presence outside the CBI office as “a sufficient ground for transfer of the case”.Taking cognizance of the arguments from both sides the judges observed that the incidents can erode people’s confidence in the justice system.“In these facts and circumstances, if any order is passed by the Court the same will not have faith and confidence of the people in the system of administration of justice. Confidence of the people in the justice system will be eroded in case such types of incidents are allowed to happen in the matters where political leaders are arrested and are to be produced in the Court. Public trust and confidence in the judicial system is more important, it being the last resort. They may have a feeling that it is not rule of law which prevails but it is a mob which has an upper hand and especially in a case where it is led by the Chief Minister of the State in the office of CBI and by the Law Minister of the State in the Court Complex,” the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/calcutta-hc-sends-tmc-leaders-to-jail-after-cbi-cites-mamata-banerjee-s-dharna-101621308252805.html
18-05-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 am: Portals of Badrinath temple reopened on Tuesday and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 AM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Badrinath temple in Uttarakhand opens portals, day after KedarnathThe portals of the holy Badrinath temple in Uttarakhand were reopened in the early morning hours of Tuesday, a day after the Kedarnath shrine in the hill state, too, reopened with strict protocols due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. Read morePM Modi to interact with state, district officials on Covid-19 managementPrime Minister Narendra Modi will on Tuesday interact with field officials from states and districts to know about their experience in handling the Covid-19 situation. Read moreIndia calls for end to violence in Israel, GazaIndia has strongly condemned all acts of violence and provocation in the Gaza conflict and called for immediate de-escalation while urging Israel and Palestinian authorities to immediately resume dialogue to find a lasting solution. Read moreAfter Maruti, Hero MotoCorp too extends production shutdown amid Covid surgeWorld's largest two-wheeler manufacturer Hero MotoCorp has decided to extend shutdown across its facilities which had begun in April. The decision comes as the country is still trying to cope with the surge in Covid-19 cases in the past few weeks. Read more‘He batted as he does for Australia’: Sunil Gavaskar names RCB’s surprise package in IPL 2021Virat Kohli’s Royal Challengers Bangalore looked completely different in the Indian Premier League (IPL) 2021. Unlike the previous editions, they posed serious threats to the opponents this year. They had a terrific start to their campaign as they experienced a defeat after winning five games in a row. Unfortunately, the season was suspended after several players and support staff tested positive to Covid-19. Read moreAmitabh Bachchan's Janak flooded as Cyclone Tauktae hits Mumbai, shelters for staff blown awayAmitabh Bachchan's office, named Janak, was flooded Monday night when Cyclone Tauktae hit Mumbai, the actor revealed in his latest blog entry. He also said that he offered his own collection of team Tshirts of Abhishek Bachchan's Pink Panthers team to the staff members who got drenched while repairing the damages. Read moreMillennial pop icon Ariana Grande marries beau Dalton Gomez in intimate ceremonyAriana Grande is a newlywed. A representative for the singer confirmed that she recently married real estate agent Dalton Gomez. Read moreWatch: Israel forces release more airstrike videos as Gaza tension continuesAmid Israel-Palestine tension, Israel military released more footage of airstrikes in Gaza. Israel claimed to have targeted a key Hamas facility. Hamas is a militant group which wants Islamist Palestinian state. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-am-portals-of-badrinath-temple-reopened-on-tuesday-and-all-the-latest-news-101621304532080.html
18-05-2021||India||Navy seeks amendment to 30-year submarine plan, wants six nuclear boats||The Indian Navy has approached the Narendra Modi government for approval to make changes in the Cabinet Committee of Security (CCS) approved 30-year submarine building plan by replacing six conventional attack vessels with nuclear powered platforms in the context of changing strategic scenario in Indo-Pacific.The 30-year submarine plan was approved by Atal Bihari Vajpayee government in July 1999 for induction of 24 diesel attack submarines. As of now, the Indian Navy has 12 ageing conventional attack submarines plus three new Kalvari class submarines, first of which was commissioned in December 2017 as part of the ₹23,652 crore project approved way back in 2005.It is understood that the navy has sought the Cabinet approval to allow it new submarine force levels of 18 conventional diesel attack submarines including those with air independent propulsion and six nuclear attack submarines or SSNs. This change has been sought keeping in mind the rapid increase of nuclear submarine arsenal by People’s Liberation Army Navy (PLAN) and to protect the Indo-Pacific from future domination by the adversary.As of now, the India has one Akula class submarine INS Chakra on lease from Russian Federation and one ballistic missile firing submarine INS Arighat. The two are under the Strategic Forces Command. All the ballistic missile firing submarines also called SSBNs are outside the purview of Indian Navy and with Strategic Forces Command.According to national security planners, once the Modi government approves the changes to the 30-year-old plan, the Indian Navy will move the Defence Ministry for acceptance of necessity (AON) before inviting request for proposals from the key allies for joint development and building of the six nuclear powered submarines under the Atmanirbhar Bharat route. The project will take a minimum of 10 years to complete as per Indian Navy estimates.While the Indian Navy wanted six more AIP equipped diesel submarines to be added to complete the 30 year submarine force levels, the national security planners convinced the Admirals that nuclear attack submarine is a much more potent platform with the capacity to stay below surface for months and only surface for crew change and logistics. The equatorial waters of Indian Ocean make submarines a very potent weapon due to temperature differences on surface and below water. This causes total internal reflection due to changes in medium and makes submarines in equatorial waters the most difficult to detect. It is due to this phenomenon that the SSNs will act as a deterrent for both sea access and sea denial to the adversary.With the Defence Research and Development Organization (DRDO) being able to indigenously develop the AIP technology, all the INS Kalvari class submarines will be retrofitted with the new technology during upgrades or mid-life refits. The Indian Navy too will be taking an orbital jump by moving from diesel submarines to nuclear powered and conventional cruise missile equipped platforms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/navy-seeks-amendment-to-30-year-submarine-plan-wants-six-nuclear-boats-101621307478586.html
18-05-2021||India||Cyclone Tauktae weakens; heavy rains likely over Saurashtra today||Tauktae has weakened from extremely severe cyclonic storm to a very severe cyclonic storm early this morning, following landfall over Gujarat coast.At 5.30am, it was about 95 km north-northeast of Diu and 10 km south of Amreli. As per India Meteorological Department’s 7am bulletin, the intensity at the centre of the storm is 115 to 125 kmph gusting to 135 kmph. Tauktae is likely to weaken to a severe cyclonic storm during in the next few hours. Heavy to very heavy rain with extremely heavy rainfall is likely over Saurashtra and parts of coastal Gujarat today.Also Read | Cyclone Tauktae weakens, rain forecast in Rajasthan towns: 10 pointsGale winds of 115 to 125 kmph gusting to 135 kmph is likely to prevail along and off Gujarat coast at Amreli, Bhavnagar, Botad etc; 100 to 120 kmph wind speed is likely over Diu, Gir Somnath, Junagarh, Surendra Nagar, Rajkot, Bharuch, Anand etc.After the landfall which has been completed this morning, the system is very likely to re-curve north-northeastwards, across Gujarat and weaken gradually. It is likely to maintain the intensity of cyclonic storm till today evening and thereafter, it will weaken gradually into a depression over south Rajasthan. Under its influence, light to moderate rainfall at most places with heavy to very heavy rainfall at a few places very likely over interior districts of Gujarat and south Rajasthan today. Squally winds are likely to prevail over south Rajasthan in association with the presence of the remnant system as a depression over the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-tauktae-weakens-heavy-rains-likely-over-saurashtra-today-101621307232655.html
18-05-2021||India||Maha daily Covid cases continue to drop, state records 26,616 fresh infections||Maharashtra recorded 26,616 new daily infections on Monday, pushing its Covid tally to 5,405,068. Active cases declined to 445,495 after 48,211 recoveries were reported in the past 24 hours.The state also saw 516 fatalities, taking the toll to 82,486. Kolhapur reported the highest toll on Monday with 101 deaths – (83 in the district and 18 in the city), followed by Solapur with 56 deaths (49 in the district and seven in the city).After three months of surge, daily cases in Maharashtra have gradually started declining. It became possible, however, only after a complete lockdown was imposed across the state on April 22. The state is now hoping for a decline of 50% in daily cases by the end of this month, officials said.Also Read | PM Modi to interact with state, district officials on Covid-19 managementFor the past four consecutive days, Maharashtra has been reporting less than 40,000 cases. On May 14, 15 and 16, it reported 39,923, 34,848, and 34,389 cases, respectively. On April 18, the state saw the highest daily surge of 68,631 cases which is also been seen as the peak of the second wave. Till May 1, the tally of daily cases was more than 60,000 cases.The daily positivity rate of the state is also on decline as it was 15.91%, 14.68%, and 12.99% on May 14, 15 and 16, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-daily-covid-cases-continue-to-drop-state-records-26-616-fresh-infections-101621306692574.html
18-05-2021||India||Health ministry releases list of blood clot symptoms to watch out for after taking Covishield||The Union health ministry said on Monday that the number of blood clot cases in people who received AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine (called Covishield) in India was "minuscule". Covishield - one of three shots granted emergency approval in India - is the most widely used in the country and is manufactured by Pune-based Serum Institute (SII).Watch: NITI Aayog explains Covishield dose gap increase to 10-12 week"AEFI (Adverse Event Following Immunisation) data in India showed that there is a very miniscule but definitive risk of thromboembolic events," the health ministry said in a statement, citing a report by the National AEFI Committee.Also Read: Details of thromboembolic events after Covid-19 vaccinationThromboembolic events refer to the formation of a clot in a blood vessel that might also break loose and be carried by the bloodstream to plug another vessel.The ministry separately released advisories to healthcare workers and vaccine beneficiaries to encourage people to be aware of suspected thromboembolic symptoms. These symptoms, the ministry said, occur within 20 days of taking a shot (particularly Covishield) and asked the beneficiaries to report to the health facility where vaccine was administered.The list of symptoms mentioned in the ministry's advisory are:According to the AEFI Committee, it has completed an in-depth case review of 498 serious and severe events, of which 26 cases have been reported to be potential thromboembolic (formation of a clot in a blood vessel that might also break loose and carried by the bloodstream to plug another vessel) events - following the administration of Covishield vaccine - with a reporting rate of 0.61 cases per million doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-lists-blood-clot-symptoms-to-watch-out-for-after-taking-covishield-101621306176186.html
18-05-2021||India||Assam to ban inter-district movement to contain record rise in Covid cases||Assam government on Monday decided to suspend inter-district movement of persons and vehicles for 15 days beginning May 21 amid a record number of Covid-19 cases and deaths in the state. “It has been observed that with unabated inter-district movement, the Covid-19 containment measures are not yielding the desired level of reduction of cases,” said the fresh order by Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA). Assam on Monday recorded 6,394 new Covid-19 infections and 92 deaths—most in a day since the pandemic started last year. The positivity rate, which was hovering between 8% and 9% in the past few days, however, dipped to 6.99% with 91,481 tests being conducted over the period. The restrictions on inter-state movement will not apply to government officials, emergency and essential services, travel for medical emergencies and Covid-19 vaccination etc. Movement of goods will also remain unaffected. Those requiring travel for medical emergencies, last rites will be allowed with written permission from the authorities of the originating district. The state government has decided to provide food items worth ₹2,000 to poor and economically weak households in containment zones. To ensure early detection of Covid-19 cases, the government has decided to conduct around 100,000 Covid tests daily from Monday. While suggestions have been made that imposition of total lockdown, at least for a week, is needed to control the rising Covid cases, the new government in the state has decided against it, till now. “We haven’t imposed a total lockdown as we are also concerned about the livelihoods of people. We are trying to create a mid-way between economic activity and Covid control. If that process fails and Covid-19 cases continue to rise, we might have to consider a total lockdown,” chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma told HT on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-to-ban-inter-district-movement-to-contain-record-rise-in-covid-cases-101621304772843.html
18-05-2021||India||PM Modi to interact with state, district officials on Covid-19 management||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Tuesday interact with field officials from states and districts to know about their experience in handling the Covid-19 situation.According to a statement issued by the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), officials from Karnataka, Bihar, Assam, Chandigarh, Tamil Nadu, Uttarakhand, Madhya Pradesh, Goa, Himachal Pradesh and Delhi will take part in the meeting."Through their interaction with the Prime Minister, the officials will share some best practices, in addition to suggestions and recommendations for continuing our ongoing battle against Covid-19, especially in semi-urban and rural areas," the statement addedThe PMO said that the battle against Covid-19 across various states and districts is being led at the cutting edge by field-level officials, adding that many of them have shown great initiative and come out with imaginative solutions. "A better appreciation of such initiatives will help towards developing an effective response plan, targeted strategy implementation and support necessary policy interventions," it added.The statement further said that many effective measures have been taken to deal with the pandemic like ensuring that strict containment measures are undertaken to control the spread, preparing healthcare facilities for handling the raging second wave of Covid-19, ensuring availability of healthcare workforce and a seamless supply chain for logistics."Those districts in their relentless efforts to manage the situation also have success stories that could be replicated across the country," the statement||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-interact-with-state-district-officials-on-covid-19-management-101621303283110.html
18-05-2021||India||Not deferring privacy policy, WhatsApp tells Delhi high court||Messaging service provider WhatsApp told the Delhi high court on Monday that it has not decided to defer the roll-out of a contentious privacy policy, and will continue to “persuade” users to accept it before their accounts are eventually deleted if they don’t comply.The company has been under fire for the new privacy policy that critics say will allow it to share more data with its parent Facebook without giving users the opportunity to opt out. It has been challenged in court for abusing its market dominance, and the Union government has said the policy violates rules framed under Information Technology Act.WhatsApp has defended its decision, saying the concerns stemmed from misinformation and the data that would be shared is limited to users interactions with business accounts.The high court on Monday refrained from ordering a stay on the implementation of the policy. A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh was informed by senior advocate Kapil Sibal, for WhatsApp, that contrary to reports, it is not deferring its update on the privacy policy which has come into force from May 15. He said it would not straightaway delete the accounts and would rather persuade people to come on board. But, if the users are not convinced, slowly their accounts would be deleted, he added.The platform also said there was no universal or uniform time limit after which it will start to delete accounts as each user would be dealt with on a case-to-case basis. “We have asked users to agree to policy. If they don’t agree we will delete them... there is no deferment of policy,” Sibal told the court.The policy was first disclosed last year and was meant to be rolled out in January. The plan triggered a strong backlash and an exodus of users to other apps, after which WhatsApp deferred the deadline.Appearing for the Centre, additional solicitor general (ASG) Chetan Sharma said the privacy policy is in violation of Indian IT laws and rules.He said the Union government has written to Facebook chief executive Mark Zuckerberg on the issue and a reply is awaited and therefore, there was a need to maintain status quo with regard to implementation of the policy.WhatsApp, opposing the contention, said it was conforming to Indian IT law and rules and added that its policy has come into effect from May 15, but that it won’t be deleting accounts right away.The ASG urged the court to record the statement of WhatsApp’s counsel that the firm will conform to Indian law and maintain status quo where neither the account nor the data is deleted if they revoke permission/consent for the new policy.To this, Sibal said, “No no…we are not making any such statement. It is as good as taking a stay.”The bench, refrained from passing any order, and posted the matter on June 3 for final arguments on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-deferring-privacy-policy-whatsapp-tells-delhi-high-court-101621302295313.html
18-05-2021||India||Cyclone Tauktae weakens, rain forecast in Rajasthan towns: 10 points||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Tuesday said that Cyclone Tauktae, which has impacted several states on the western coast of India, is now showing a weakening trend."The Cyclone continues to show weakening trend. Eye is disorganising, wall cloud is weakening," the Met department said in a tweet.Cyclone Tauktae has damaged several structures, electricity lines and uprooted many trees in various states while moving towards Gujarat.Here are the latest updates on Cyclone Tauktae:. At least 60 people from Barge P305 have been rescued till 11pm last night by INS Kochi and 18 by an offshore support vessel in challenging sea conditions, due to Cyclone Tauktae, a defence PRO was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. The official also said that INS Kolkata joined in for search and rescue of remaining crew..It was one of the two barges which went adrift off the Mumbai coast as the cyclone intensified on Monday. Search and rescue operation Barge P305 continued through the night by INS Kochi and INS Kolkata, the defenc eofficial said.. The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) team in Maharashtra cleared fallen trees and branches from a road in Dahisar area of Mumbai, last night..Army personnel last night cleared the road between Gujarat's Somnath district and Diu, which was blocked due to fallen trees. Vehicular movement resumed soon after..Rain and gusty winds were seen in Una town of Saurashtra near Diu, at midnight..Following the cyclone, several places near Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan are likely to witness rainfall in the next couple of hours. The IMD said that light to moderate intensity rain would occur over isolated places of Uttar Pradesh's Firozabad, Hathras, Narora, Raya, Iglas, Aligarh, Atrauli, Kashganj, Mathura, Sahaswan, Etah, Nandgaon, Barsana, Jahangirabad, Khurja, Pahasu, Tundla, Agra, Jattari, Sikandra Rao and Jajau..In view of Cyclone Taukate, Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani last night held a meeting with officials of the coastal districts of Valsad and Gir Somnath at the state control room in Gandhinagar.. As many as 11 Indian Navy Diving Teams have been kept on standby and 12 flood rescue teams and medical teams have been designated for immediate response and deployment keeping in view of the cyclone..The Indian Coast Guard Ship Samarth rescued 15 crew from a fishing boat named Milad, off Goa coast on Monday late night as the cyclone with winds gusting up to 185 km per hour began making landfall on Gujarat's Saurashtra coast near Diu..Two more Indian Coast Guard Ships at sea were diverted and directed to rush to Bombay High off Heera oil fields for rescue operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-tauktae-weakens-rain-forecast-in-rajasthan-towns-10-points-101621300519048.html
18-05-2021||India||12 dead as Cyclone Tauktae leaves a trail of destruction||A day after cyclone Tauktae crossed the coastal areas of Karnataka and Goa, many places in the two states witnessed power and internet connectivity issues on Monday, even as some areas remained inaccessible due to trees blocking highways.Officials in the disaster management department of the two states said the assessment of the damage caused by the gusty winds of 120-140kmph could be done only in a few days. Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant tweeted that PM Narendra Modi has assured assistance to the state in its recovery efforts. “Hon’ble Prime Minster @narendramodi ji personally called to enquire about the impact of cyclone Tauktae on the state of Goa. He has assured all possible assistance from the Central Government.”Also Read| Cyclone Tauktae: Rapid intensity takes experts by surpriseIn Karnataka, heavy rainfall and gusty winds continued to lash the coastal districts of Udupi, Dakshina Kannada and Uttara Kannada. Loss of life and property was reported from three districts in the Malnad region -- Kodagu, Chikmagalur and Shivamogga.Officials said at least six people died due to the cyclone and its impact and 333 homes were damaged. Around 57km of roads have been damaged and 547 people have been evacuated so far, according to data from the state disaster management.The cyclone claimed two lives in Goa and injured three others while causing damage to scores of houses, power and mobile connectivity infrastructure, which the CM said, would take at least two days to restore.Also Read| Gujarat braces as Cyclone Tauktae makes night approachIn Kerala, the first state to see the impact of the cyclone, continued to be battered by high tides and winds even two days after Tauktae moved upwards. Officials said four people died in two days and over 5,000 are still lining in relief camps after their dwellings were damaged. The cyclone comes as a double whammy to the states which continue to reel under the grip of the pandemic that has now started showing signs of a surge in rural areas, including those impacted by the cyclone. The cyclone has thrown life out of gear in these districts, impacting Covid norms, said people familiar with the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/12-dead-as-cyclone-tauktae-leaves-a-trail-of-destruction-101621301419137.html
18-05-2021||India||Smiling Buddha: How India successfully conducted first nuclear test in Pokhran||India is observing the 47th anniversary of its first nuclear test in Rajasthan's Pokhran on Tuesday. It made India a nuclear power.The test was codenamed 'Smiling Buddha' and conducted on May 18, 1974. The name was chosen because the test was conducted on Buddha Purnima that year. “The Buddha has finally smiled” was the message conveyed by Raja Ramanna, the director of India’s premier nuclear research institute Bhabha Atomic Research Centre (BARC) to Prime Minister Indira Gandhi.It was the first confirmed nuclear test by a nation that was not a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council (UNSC).Though the yield of the device detonated at Pokhran is debated, it is believed that the actual yield was around 8-12 Kilotons of TNT. The highlight of the test was that India had managed to avoid detection by the United States and other intelligence agencies.The country also faced a series of sanctions from national like the United States which said that such tests can lead to nuclear proliferation.It took a nearly two-year preparation for India to conduct this test. Indira Gandhi had authorised scientists at BARC to detonate an indigenously designed nuclear device in September, 1972.After 1974, India again nuclear tests at same location (called Pokhran-II tests) in 1998 when Atal Bihari Vajpayee was the prime minister. The tests saw a series of five nuclear explosions, in May 1998 at Pokhran. National Technology Day is observed every year on May 11 as a reminder of the anniversary of the Pokhran-II tests.Last year, when India marked the anniversary of the 1974 Pokhran tests, it was facing extremely severe cyclonic storm Amphan, which hit West Bengal and Bangladesh coasts. This year, the country is faced with mitigiating the effects of another cyclone Tauktae, which has wreaked havoc in states along its western coast.Lakhs of people have been evacuated from the coastal areas in states like Maharashtra and Gujarat. The Centre is coordinating with the state governments affected by the cyclone in rescue and relief operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/smiling-buddha-how-india-successfully-conducted-first-nuclear-test-in-pokhran-101621301524390.html
18-05-2021||India||Defence minister reviews prep for Cyclone Tauktae, navy warships kept on standby||With Tauktae intensifying from a very severe to an extremely severe cyclonic storm, defence minister Rajnath Singh on Monday reviewed the military’s preparations to provide humanitarian assistance and disaster relief to states affected by the cyclone even as warships and rescue teams are on standby for relief work, officials familiar with the development said.Three warships (Talwar, Tarkash and Tabar) are on standby with relief material for immediate assistance to affected areas if required, the defence ministry said in a statement, adding that more warships can be diverted for stranded fishing boats.The minister said at the meeting that 11 Indian Navy diving teams have also been kept on standby.“Twelve flood rescue teams and medical teams have been earmarked for immediate response and deployment...”The navy’s maritime reconnaissance aircraft are also broadcasting warnings to fishermen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defence-minister-reviews-prep-for-cyclone-tauktae-navy-warships-kept-on-standby-101621301461973.html
18-05-2021||India||Drink cow urine to prevent Covid: BJP MP Pragya Thakur; experts reject remark||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) parliamentarian Pragya Thakur has said that drinking cow urine can help prevent coronavirus disease (Covid-19), adding that her remark had “scientific backing”.Addressing party workers in Bhopal on Sunday, Thakur said: “I consumed cow urine daily and it is a kind of acid which purifies my body. It also purifies the lungs and saves me from Covid-19 infection. I don’t take any medicine against corona but I am safe.”The 51-year-old MP received criticism after a video of her remark went viral. She, however, defended the statement.“ I have recommended these because they have scientific backing. Research has already established it,” she said.Health experts, however, warned against relying on what they called “unscientific claims” amid the second wave of the pandemic.“At least, now these leaders should stop recommending unscientific treatments,” Dr Ranjan Sharma, president Indian Medical Association said. htc||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drink-cow-urine-to-prevent-covid-bjp-mp-pragya-thakur-experts-reject-remark-101621298599190.html
18-05-2021||India||Arrests over PM Modi's posters ‘illegal’, says plea in Supreme Court||A Delhi-based lawyer has filed a public interest litigation (PIL) in the Supreme Court seeking to quash over two dozen criminal cases lodged against people who pasted posters across the National Capital Region questioning Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the shortage of Covid-19 vaccine doses in the country.Terming the arrests “illegal”, the petitioner, Pradeep Kumar Yadav, has urged the court to direct the commissioner of the Delhi Police and the director general of the UP Police to not register any further first information reports (FIRs) in this matter, and has called for the records relating to the 25 FIRs registered so far. According to the petition, most of the people arrested by the Delhi Police were daily wage workers who were hired to put up posters and banners that said, “Modiji hamare bachhon ki vaccine videsh kyun bhej diya (Modi ji, why did you send the vaccines meant for our children to foreign countries?)”. Police have arrested 24 people in connection with the matter, and most have been released on bail, the petitioner stated quoting news reports.“The petitioner is seeking the intervention of this court into the 24 arrests in Delhi over posters against the Prime Minister on the vaccination policy. At least 25 First Information Reports (FIR) have been registered in connection with posters that surfaced across the capital questioning Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the vaccination policy in a sarcastic tone,” the plea said. It argued that the action by police was contrary to the court’s recent direction restraining police from registering any criminal case against the public for seeking medical help over social media.The petition has not been filed at the instance of any of the accused. The matter is yet to come up for hearing.The FIRs in the case largely relate to IPC Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), Section 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of any disease dangerous to life), Section 34 (common intention), besides provisions of other laws such as Delhi Prevention of Defacement of Property Act, Delhi Disaster Management Act, and Epidemic Act.Following the arrests, the ruling Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) at the Centre has come under sharp attack from the Opposition parties, including Congress leader Rahul Gandhi posting the message on Twitter, along with an “Arrest me too” message.BJP spokesperson Anil Baluni responded by saying that Congress leaders were trying to incite people. “Instead of acting as a responsible Opposition, they are busy doing politics,” Baluni said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arrests-over-pm-modi-s-posters-illegal-says-plea-in-supreme-court-101621293711703.html
18-05-2021||India||Extremely severe Tauktae lashes India's western coast||Hundreds of thousands of people were evacuated on Monday, with electricity supply and transport services badly hit as the most powerful Arabian Sea cyclone in over two decades barrelled up the country’s western coast, making landfall in Gujarat after leaving a trail of destruction in Kerala, Karnataka, Goa and Maharashtra, and killing at least a dozen people.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) labelled the storm as “extremely severe”, upgrading it from “very severe” earlier. The cyclone battered Mumbai with wind speeds of up to 114 kmph, causing the suspension of operations at the financial hub’s airport and flooding in many parts of the city. Electricity poles and trees were uprooted and buildings damaged in many coastal areas across states.The cyclone’s landfall began around 8.30pm, IMD said, with the outer cloud band of Tauktae lying over Saurashtra at around 9pm. The landfall process was to take about four hours, scientists said late on Monday.Also Read| Worst cyclone to come closest to Mumbai in over 40 years“On Monday morning, it intensified to an extremely severe cyclonic storm, but it weakened marginally during landfall,” said Sunitha Devi, in charge, cyclones, IMD.The maximum wind intensity at the eye of the storm at the time of the landfall was 160-170kmph, gusting to 190kmph. The system was crossing the Gujarat coast between Porbandar and Mahuva (Bhavnagar district), east of Diu, with a maximum wind speed of 155-165 kmph, gusting to 185kmph.Cyclones are low-pressure systems that form over warm tropical waters, with gale-force winds near the centre. The winds can extend hundreds of kilometres from the eye of the storm, sucking up water and later producing heavy rainfall. The latest cyclone to hit India has been given the name “Tauktae” (pronounced Tau’te) by Myanmar; it means “gecko” in the Burmese language.Heavy rainfall and high-speed winds lashed Mumbai and its adjoining districts as the cyclone moved up the western coast during the day. According to an official, six people were killed in Maharashtra’s Konkan region in separate incidents related to the severe cyclonic storm and three sailors remained missing after two boats sank in the sea.Rain from the storm earlier killed six people in Kerala, Karnataka and Goa states over the weekend.As Mumbai and other coastal areas continued to be battered with heavy rain, over 12,000 people were relocated to safer places from the coastal areas in Maharashtra.Also Read| Western coast on edge as cyclone intensifiesExperts said IMD couldn’t accurately forecast the intensity of the weather system. Reacting to the criticism, M Rajeevan, secretary, ministry of earth sciences, said: “In recent years, we are seeing very intense cyclones form over Arabian Sea; they also intensify rapidly which is what we call rapid intensification in scientific terms. It happens because ocean heat content is higher and sea surface temperatures are also higher. It’s being seen over the Atlantic and Pacific also.”The latest cyclone also put pressure on the authorities already struggling with a high caseload of Covid-19 infections. At least 17 Covid-19 patients on ventilator support in the Porbandar Civil Hospital’s ICU were shifted to other facilities on Monday as a precautionary measure because of the cyclone.Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani said all measures were being taken to deal with the situation. “These are special circumstances. The administration is busy with the Covid-19 challenges, and is now gearing up to deal with the impact of the cyclone,” said Rupani.A 1998 cyclone killed at least 4,000 people and caused heavy monetary loss in Gujarat. The scale of the damage from the latest cyclone in the state wasn’t immediately clear as the landfall process was still ongoing at the time of going to press.The cyclone earlier forced the evacuation of over 150,000 people in Gujarat alone and left two barges with 410 people on board adrift in the Arabian Sea.The Centre offered all help to Gujarat to deal with the cyclone and asked the army, navy and the air force to remain on standby to assist the administration if the need arises, the Gujarat government said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah were in touch with the state government and extended all possible help, said Rupani.Gujarat and Mumbai both suspended their vaccination drives on Monday due to the storm.Vineet Kumar, researcher on cyclones at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, tweeted: “For the first time after 1976 and only second time since 1900 a cyclone which formed in May is going to hit Gujarat coast with wind speed greater than 35 knots (65 kmph) as per IMD cyclone e-Atlas.” He also tweeted that Tauktae, with a wind speed of 120 knots (222 kmph), was the strongest pre-monsoon Arabian Sea cyclone after 2010 and the third most intense pre-monsoon Arabian Sea cyclone in the satellite era (1982 onwards), as per the Joint Typhoon Warning Center.Also Read| Gujarat braces as Cyclone Tauktae makes night approachOP Sreejith, Scientist E and head, Climate Monitoring and Prediction Group (CMPG), IMD Pune, said: “The 1998 Gujarat cyclone which hit Kandla was of a similar intensity. The main reason for Tauktae’s sudden intensification is high surface temperatures in the Arabian Sea.”The National Disaster Response Force said it evacuated thousands of stranded people in the last three days in Gujarat, Kerala and Daman and Diu in view of the cyclone.“Teams are continuously cutting and clearing heavy trees and electric poles that have been uprooted and crashed on roads. Extensive efforts are being made to bring the situation to normal in the affected states,” NDRF said.It added that the headquarters of the force was closely monitoring the situation through its control room and was in close touch with state authorities to tackle this “big challenge” which came when the Covid-19 pandemic was raging.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/extremely-severe-tauktae-lashes-india-s-western-coast-101621292894158.html
18-05-2021||India||‘Plasma therapy dropped from Covid-19 treatment protocol’: ICMR||India on Monday dropped convalescent plasma therapy from the list of treatments prescribed for the management of adult coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients, a move that triggered growing evidence against the therapy benefiting Covid-19 patients in any way.The revised guidelines jointly issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)-Covid-19 National Task Force, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi, and Union ministry of health and family welfare, do not mention the use of convalescent plasma therapy.Convalescent plasma therapy uses a blood component called plasma rich in virus-fighting antibodies from recovered Covid-19 patients to aid the immune system in fighting off the infection. The data from the PLACID trial by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) that was conducted at 39 centres across India, was released in September last year, found that the therapy did not prevent progression to severe disease or reduce the number of deaths at 28-days of enrolment of the patient.“ICMR has made it public in the past also that the therapy isn’t of much use based on the evidence that we have, and the earlier revised guidelines were also drastically modified for reference of those wanting to administer it, with clear cut dos and don’ts mentioned under which it can be given. But now it has been deleted from the list of therapies altogether,” said one of the members of the National Task Force, who is aware of the matter, requesting anonymity. “The decision was arrived at after members underwent a detailed deliberation on the matter, going through all the evidence at their disposal from India and abroad. It was a well-thought-out decision, especially with reports of indiscriminate use of plasma therapy having come to light at some places,” the member added.The earlier guidelines allowed its off-label use which means there was limited available evidence, and only in specific circumstances.It was allowed to be used among patients having an early moderate disease (preferably within 7 days of symptom onset), with the availability of high titre donor plasma. It was clearly mentioned that the therapy had no use after 7 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plasma-therapy-dropped-from-covid-19-treatment-protocol-icmr-101621280111457.html
18-05-2021||India||Surveys to help curb Covid spread in rural areas: K’taka CM||Bengaluru Chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Monday held a meeting with officials from various districts of the state over the surge of Covid-19 cases in rural areas and instructed them to carry out door-to-door surveys and phone triaging to contain the spread of the virus.“It was instructed to conduct house to house survey and segregating patients through phone triaging on priority,” according to a statement from the chief minister’s office (CMO) late on Monday.“It was instructed that triaging should be conducted in two levels. This should be done within two hours after receiving the test report and also while getting admitted to hospital,” the statement further said.The measures come even as rural regions in the state witness a surge of new infections in the ongoing second wave, which appears to be showing signs of stabilizing in Bengaluru but shifting to other districts.Karnataka recorded 38,603 new infections on Monday that takes its active case load to 603,639, the highest in the country.The state recorded 476 more fatalities including 239 in its capital city.After showing its biggest decline in over a month, Bengaluru recorded 13,338 new infections, indicating that the worst may still not be over for India’s IT capital.Bidar, one of the worst affected regions in the state, has seen a significant decline as the border district reported just 172 cases on Monday, according to the daily bulletin of the state health department.However, all 30 districts of Karnataka reported at least one fatality which shows the severity of the Covid-19 pandemic and its impact in the ongoing second wave of infections in the southern state and other parts of the country.“As there is a surge of cases in the villages, instruction was given to the DCs to give priority to contain (the) pandemic in villages. Action will be taken to provide test reports within 24 hours. Home isolation process to be followed strictly in rural areas,” the statement added.Karnataka is currently under lockdown-like restrictions which is scheduled to end on May 24. However, at least three ministers of the Yediyurappa government on Monday said that the lockdown should be extended.“In my personal opinion, it will be good to extend the lockdown. You have seen that in Bengaluru there were 22,000 cases which has now come to 8,000. So the lockdown has been useful,” R Ashok, the revenue minister of Karnataka said.However, Yediyurappa clarified that a decision will be taken by the cabinet just before the lockdown ends.During his meeting with district officials, Yediyurappa instructed that medicines should be purchased locally if there is a shortage.“Oxygen concentrators are being provided to all districts based on the need by the health department. Oxygen supply should be assessed in advance to ensure timely supply. In case of emergencies, it was instructed to coordinate with neighbouring districts,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/surveys-to-help-curb-covid-spread-in-rural-areas-k-taka-cm-101621279991970.html
18-05-2021||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||The seven-day average of new deaths in the US was 610 on May 16, according to the New York Times database. The seven-day average of new cases was 33,041. That translates into a Case Fatality Rate (recorded deaths/reported cases) of 1.8%.The corresponding numbers on March 16 were 1,306 and 54,949 for a CFR of 2.4%.The ratio fluctuated before that period. For instance, on February 1, these numbers were 3,160 and 146,550 for a CFR of 2.15%; and on January 9, they were 3,189 and 254,002 for a CFR of 1.25%.Barring unfortunate accidents caused by the US CDC’s recent guidelines on masks, most experts believe that this number will fall sharply in the coming weeks (many of the deaths being recorded now, they point out, are of people ailing for some time). Indeed, according to the NYT database, the seven-day average of hospitalisations was around 36,000 last week, a level last seen in September 2020. The US’s overall CFR is around 1.8%, and the ratio is soon expected to go below that.The recent drop can be attributed to vaccines.It isn’t just the US. In the UK, the seven-day average of new cases was 2,274 on May 16 (again, according to the NYT database). The seven-day average of deaths was 11. That translates into a CFR of 0.48%. That needs to be compared with the UK’s overall CFR – 2.9%. On February 1, the corresponding numbers were 18,607 and 406 for a CFR of 2.18%. According to data from the UK government, fewer than 1,000 people were in hospital on account of Covid-19 as of last week; of these, 129 were on ventilators.Again, the drop can be attributed to vaccines.Also Read| US to send FDA-authorised Covid-19 vaccines abroad for first timeIn the UK, 59% of those eligible, have received one dose of the vaccine, and 38% both. In the US, 61.1% of the adult (over 16 years) population has received at least one dose of the vaccine, and 46% both.That lengthy preamble is critical in the context of India’s own good news – a 16% fall in the weekly average of new infections for the seven days ended Sunday, and a dip in active cases (as reported by Jamie Mullick in Monday’s HT). On Sunday, for instance, India recorded 281,911 new cases, the lowest in 27 days, though the number may have been skewed downwards by a three-day weekend (Friday was a public holiday on account of Eid).It isn’t just at the national level. The number of daily new cases in Delhi on Sunday fell to 6,456, for a seven-day average of 10,043, the lowest in 33 days. Both at the national level, and in Delhi, the positivity rate (the proportion of those testing positive) has fallen sharply, with no appreciable fall in testing. Indeed, 14 of the country’s 20 major states have shown a decline in the positivity rate. Anecdotally, too, the number of distress calls on social media has fallen – and in most large cities, hospital beds are now available (although ICU ones are still a problem).If (and it’s a pretty big if at least in the mind of this columnist) the trend lasts, India’s second wave would have seen a very sharp peak. That’s true of Delhi’s fourth wave too, which started ebbing on April 24.Also Read| Pfizer, Moderna vaccines effective against Indian variants: StudyIt’s important to understand sharp peaks. They are usually unsustainable because they are usually the result of harsh non-pharmaceutical interventions such as a lockdown. In some cases, they can also be caused by faulty or disingenuous testing protocol (such as an indiscriminate use of unreliable rapid tests; poor testing spread; or the non-reporting or selective reporting of positive test results). In Delhi’s case, for instance, they are the result of a lockdown that went into place around a month ago, and which the government, on Sunday, extended till May 24.The same vaccine effect seen in the UK and the US is evident in the 60-plus population in Mumbai and Chennai, but this isn’t evident across the country (yet). For it to start having an impact, India will have to vaccinate more people (and do so fast). Until then, India will have to make sure it puts in place an early warning system (built around science, with viral genome sequencing as a key component). And until then, when infections flare up in a certain area, the only option before administrations is a lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-what-you-need-to-know-today-101621278446561.html
18-05-2021||India||TN skips Union education minister’s meeting on NEP, board exams||Chennai: Tamil Nadu school education department officials on Monday skipped a virtual meeting called by Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal with department secretaries of all states to discuss a range of issues, including implementation of New Education Policy (NEP), 2000. According to people aware of the development, this was state’s way of registering its protest against the minister’s decision to interact only with officials and not state ministers. Tamil Nadu school education minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi had a day ago emailed the Centre asking for him to be included in the meeting. “I had discussed this with the chief minister (MK Stalin) and he said that since this is a newly elected government we should have a direct interaction,” Poyyamozhi told reporters in Trichy on Monday. “We didn’t boycott, and this isn’t political. But we want to be able to participate and put forth our views. Since we didn’t receive any response, the state did not attend,” he added. There were three main agendas to be discussed in the meeting - implementation of the NEP, online classes during Covid-19, and possibility of conducting Class 12 board exams during the ongoing crisis. The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) had opposed the NEP and promised a state-level education policy in its election manifesto. Poyyamozhi said in the NEP they were particularly against conducting board exams for classes 3, 5 and 8 and the three-language policy, which he said, needed to be discussed at length. “Many of our suggestions that we put forth in the draft stage of NEP were not taken into consideration,” Poyyamozhi said, adding that he would convey Tamil Nadu’s views to the Centre once they receive a response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-skips-union-education-minister-s-meeting-on-nep-board-exams-101621278671800.html
18-05-2021||India||Tirupati trust, Karnataka religious body lock horns over birthplace of Hanuman||Hyderabad: Which is the birthplace of Lord Hanuman? Last month, Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD), the independent trust that administers Tirumala temple in Andhra Pradesh’s Chittoor district, claimed that the Tirumala hills was where the Hindu god was born. Now, Sri Hanumad Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust of Kishkindha in Karnataka has strongly contested this claim, calling it “daiva droham” (betrayal of god), and asserted that the actual birthplace of Lord Hanuman is located in Pampa-kshetra (Hampi) on the banks of the Tungabhadra River. TTD isn’t willing to withdraw its claim yet and has said that it has all the evidence to prove that Anjanadri, one of the seven hills of Tirumala, is the birthplace of the god, but if the Karnataka trust has any evidence to the contrary, it should share it by May 20. TTD made its claim in a booklet it released on April 13, coinciding with the Ugadi festival (Telugu New Year). It was based on a report submitted by an eight-member expert committee formed in December 2020 and headed by Professor Sannidhanam Sudarshana Sharma, vice-chancellor of Sri Venkateshwara Vedic University. The panel met several times and gathered evidence from scriptures before submitting its report to TTD’s executive officer, K S Jawahar Reddy. In the first week of May, the Karnataka trust sent a six-page, strongly worded letter authored by Govindananda Saraswati Swamy, the founding trustee, to TTD. Copies of it were also marked to the governors and chief ministers of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, and Tamil Nadu. Swamy dismissed the TTD report as misleading and claimed that his trust had all the evidence to prove that Lord Hanuman was born at Kishkindha hills at Pampa-kshetra in Koppal district. He quoted from the Valmiki Ramayana and other scriptures to buttress his claim. “We are ready for any debate on the subject. We give seven days’ time to TTD to reply to this letter. Otherwise, we will declare TTD and its expert team offenders. We won’t file any police complaint against TTD as our aim is to make them realise the factual position,” Swamy wrote. TTD picked up the gauntlet and announced that it was ready for a debate. On May 7, V Muralidhar Sharma, project officer of National Sanskrit University under TTD, answered the Karnataka trust’s letter and refuted the charges levelled against TTD. He said the committee had done extensive research for four months and gathered mythological, literary, archaeological, and geographical evidence to conclude that Tirumala, also mentioned as Anjanadri in ancient scriptures, was the birthplace of Lord Hanuman. “We have submitted all the evidence that we gathered to the Karnataka trust and asked it to submit objections, if any, to TTD before May 20. We are awaiting their reply,” Sharma said. Senior Bharatiya Janata Party leader and former TTD trust board member G Bhanuprakash Reddy said the controversy over Lord Hanuman’s birthplace was totally unwarranted. “TTD has come out with certain proof. If the Karnataka trust has any other evidence to counter TTD’s claims, it should disclose it instead of making wild allegations,” Reddy said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tirupati-trust-karnataka-religious-body-lock-horns-over-birthplace-of-hanuman-101621278611521.html
18-05-2021||India||Covid protocol being followed at TN manufacturing units: HC told||Chennai: Automobile major Renault-Nissan and Wipro Infrastructure in their affidavits submitted to the Madras high court on Monday said that Covid-19 protocol is being maintained at their manufacturing units to ensure the safety of all workers. The companies submitted the affidavits in response to petitions filed by workers of Renault vehicle manufacturing facility at Oragadam and Wipro at Irungattukottai. The petitioners had approached the court against the state government granting exemption to automobile and certain industries from the ongoing lockdown. The petitioners complained that contract labourers and trainees are being exploited and that transport facilities are not made available to them despite their daily attendance. A bench comprising Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy in its orders said that it appears that it’s a policy decision of the state to allow certain industries to function and due consideration would have been given to choose those industries. “...unless it is shown that such a decision is absurd to the meanest mind, the court in exercise of the authority under Article 226 of the Constitution may not seek to interfere in such a case,” the bench said. While noting that the state should take immediate steps in case safety norms aren’t followed in the exempted industries, the court adjourned the hearing to May 24 for the state to file its affidavit. Covid preparedness Taking up the hearing on a suo motu case registered to monitor preparedness for the Covid-19 second wave in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, the bench said in its orders that it is unlikely that a full-fledged vaccination drive can be undertaken before adequate supplies are received for Tamil Nadu. The court also noted that the Central government has filed papers disclosing a letter of May 16 issued by the department of pharmaceuticals and the ministry of health and family welfare enclosing an allocation and supply plan up to May 23. The state-wise allocation of the Remdesivir drug till May 23 indicated 3,50,000 vials for Tamil Nadu and 22,000 for Puducherry. “There appear to be certain anomalies in the distribution, particularly on the basis of the positive cases in several states, and learned Additional Solicitor-General (R Sankaranarayanan) has been requested to look into the basis for the allocation,” the orders read. From the papers, the court observed that the country is dependent on the import of Tocilizumab drug but the Drugs Controller General indicates availability of alternative domestically produced drugs, such as Itilizumab, Dexamethasone and Methylprednisolone, which are either equivalent to or better than Tocilizumab. Based on arguments from other lawyers and a citizen appearing in the suo motu case, the court directed the state to look into oxygen allocated to private hospitals and address oxygen needs of those who do not have Covid-19, such as elderly and patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Senior advocate and DMK Rajya Sabha MP, P Wilson, submitted during the hearing to consider releasing all prisoners in Tamil Nadu jails on temporary bail. To this, the bench stated that high-powered committees at the instance of the Tamil Nadu State Legal Services Authority and the Puducherry Legal Services Authority should be revived to ensure that there is no overcrowding in the correctional homes. The court said that particularly undertrials “may be released temporarily on the same lines as indicated in the relevant orders passed by the Supreme Court on March 23, 2020 and May 7, 2021 in Suo Motu Writ Petition (C) No.1 of 2020.” The case has been adjourned to May 20. Judicial work in subordinate courts suspended Due to the virus spread, the chief justice passed another separate order saying that all judicial work in subordinate courts of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry will be suspended except for remand purposes and unavoidable matters. Litigants and staff have been instructed not to enter court unless necessary and with permission of judge in-charge. The court also directed the state government to suspend all eviction and demolition drives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-protocol-being-followed-at-tn-manufacturing-units-hc-told-101621278610914.html
18-05-2021||India||Don’t inhale steam without medical advice: TN health minister||Chennai: Tamil Nadu health minister M Subramanian on Monday warned against steam inhalation as a precautionary measure against Covid-19 without medical advice.Subramanian was at the inauguration of a Covid care centre in Chennai when he made the remarks, keeping in mind that the virus affects the lungs. In a statement released later, he said: “There are high chances of the virus spreading to the next person when people inhale. This isn’t considered to be a medically approved treatment method. People are resorting to self-medication practices like inhaling steam based on messages that are spreading in social media.”His comments were specifically aimed at “hot pressurised air “ produced by machines. They are in sync with what medical science says -- steam , inhaled the right way, can ease congestion but it cannot prevent Covid-19.Subramanian’s remarks come a day after the government railway police at Chennai’s MGR Central railway station set up facilities and encouraged passengers to use portable steam inhalers as part of its drive against Covid-19. He appealed to organisations to refrain from setting up such facilities in public places and said there were other ways to help them during the pandemic.The health minister added that the state’s Covid care centres which offer Siddha treatment (a traditional system of medicine like ayurveda) to asymptomatic as well as patients with mild symptoms do so under medical supervision and on the advice of a government medical committee.Doctors also believe that people must consult physicians before opting for steam inhalation. “Steam inhalation is indicated when there is nasal congestion, so the steam released liquifies things like the mucus and the airway becomes clear,” Dr Suresh Rao, co-director, Institute of Heart and Lung Transplantation and Mechanical Circulatory services, MGM Healthcare, said.“If your face is too close to the steam, it can cause burns and scarring also. Steam inhalation doesn’t make a difference in Covid-19 and whether it will change the occurrence of coronavirus isn’t proved. If you are carrying the virus, it can do more harm to the lungs when you take a deep breath. Putting steam inhalation (facilities) in public places is akin to creating a centre for spreading Covid-19,” he added.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Coimbatore South MLA Vanathi Srinivasan, too, inaugurated a steam inhalation station and a mobile steam inhalation vehicle in the district on Sunday.“Frontline workers of the Coimbatore Corporation were the first beneficiaries today,” she tweeted along with a video of the staff inhaling steam.The government railway police said that they have stopped the steam inhalation sessions. “We were told by the state government to stop it. I don’t know any specific reasons why but we have stopped it yesterday (Sunday) itself,” said an inspector of the government railway police who didn’t wish to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-inhale-steam-without-medical-advice-tn-health-minister-101621278550887.html
18-05-2021||India||Chorus grows against physical swearing-in of Kerala cabinet||Communist Party of India (CPI) leader Binoy Viswom on Monday joined the chorus of voices urging the Pinarayi Vijayan government to hold its upcoming swearing-in ceremony virtually amid a relentless surge in Covid-19 cases across the state.The state government, however, decided to go ahead with the ceremony physically on May 20.In a Facebook post, Viswom, a Rajya Sabha MP wrote: “We have to set an example. We have to make it simple in view of the prevailing situation. This will only add to the goodwill of the new government.” While the state is under a strict lockdown till May 23, hectic arrangements are underway for the oath-taking ceremony this week. A makeshift gallery will be set up at Central Stadium. As per the latest plan, at least 500 invitees are expected to attend the function. However, workers at the stadium claimed that they have been asked to make arrangements for 750 guests.“We have strictly limited the number of invitees to 500. Five hundred is not a huge number in a stadium which has a capacity of 40,000. And all participants will have to carry Covid-free certificates obtained in the preceding 48 hours,” Vijayan said later on Monday. The chief minister added that the “historic victory” called for a celebration but that it would be a limited one due to the prevailing Covid situation.On Saturday, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) urged the government to shift the ceremony to a virtual platform. “The government’s oath-taking ceremony should be done virtually to give a message to the people,” IMA said, adding that the lackadaisical approach during the assembly elections resulted in a big surge in virus cases. ‘Shadow Cabinet’, a voluntary organisation fighting for propriety in public life, also urged the government to limit its invitees to 14 ministers and conduct a simple ceremony. “The state’s public debt and guarantees have overgrown its capacity. It will be ideal for the government to limit ministers and limit extravaganza,” John Joseph, an office-bearer of Shadow Cabinet, said. The chief minister, however, allayed apprehensions, saying: “You don’t have to worry on that count. There won’t be any rush.” The Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) are yet to comment on the developments. Meanwhile, the Left Democratic Front (LDF) finalised its power-sharing pact for the Cabinet and announced that the CPI(M) will have 12 ministerial berths, CPI four and Kerala Congress ( Mani) and Janata Dal (Secular) one berth each. Four other smaller parties with single MLAs will get berths on rotational basis: the first two will become ministers for 30 months and the remaining two will be elevated in the next 30 months. “As the LDF got an overwhelming majority from all sections, we decided to give representation to all sections. The talks were fruitful,” LDF convener A Vijayaraghavan said.From the CPI(M), besides health minister K K Shailaja who is likely to retain her portfolio, all other ministers will be new-comers. “The party really wants to give a fresh look to the new ministry which came to power after breaking the four-decade-old norm of alternating government after five years. We will rise up to their expectations,” a senior party leader said on condition of anonymity.During the assembly elections to the 140-member House, the LDF secured 99 seats and the United Democratic Front 41 seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chorus-grows-against-physical-swearing-in-of-kerala-cabinet-101621278490918.html
18-05-2021||India||Gujarat braces as Cyclone Tauktae makes night approach||Tauktae made landfall around 8.30 pm on Monday as an ‘extremely severe cyclonic storm’, said India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials. Thereafter it moved north north-westwards and crossed the Gujarat coast between Porbandar and Mahuva (in Bhavnagar district), east of Diu, with a maximum wind speed of up to 185 km/hr.The speed at the centre, or ‘eye’ of the storm, was up to 190 km/hr. “We could say that its intensity is bordering on ‘extremely severe cyclonic storm’, and it matches the forecasts we had made,” said Sunitha Devi who studies cyclones at IMD. She said that the Met department had predicted that Tauktae will be a ‘very severe cyclone’ ever since a low-pressure area had formed over the Arabian Sea. “This morning it intensified into an extremely severe cyclonic storm, but it weakened marginally during landfall,” she added.Gale winds with speeds up to 90 km/hr blew along the south Gujarat, Daman and Diu coasts when the cyclone hit land. Diu reported wind speed of 110 km/hr. But speeds are likely to go up to 185 km/hr off the Gujarat coast and places like Amreli, Bhavnagar, Junagadh and Gir Somnath districts. In Bharuch, Anand, south Ahmedabad, and Botad, wind speed will be up to 165 km/hr, IMD said in its bulletin.Tidal waves of up to 4 metres height will hit Anand, Amreli, Gir Somnath, Diu and Bhavnagar, while waves as high as 3 metres will inundate areas in Bharuch and southern parts of Ahmedabad.Weather watchers noted that this kind of a powerful cyclone hasn’t hit the Gujarat coast in a long time. “Going by IMD’s cyclone e-Atlas, for the first time after 1976, and only the second time since 1900, a cyclone that formed in May is going to hit the Gujarat coast with wind speeds greater than 35 knots (65 km/hr),” said Vineet Kumar, a cyclone researcher at Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology.He also tweeted that Tauktae, with a wind speed of 120 knots (222 km/hr), is the strongest pre-monsoon Arabian Sea cyclone after 2010 and the third most intense pre-monsoon Arabian Sea cyclone in the satellite era (1982 onwards) going by the Joint Typhoon Warning Center located at Pearl Harbor in Hawaii.O P Sreejith, scientist and head of Climate Monitoring and Prediction Group of IMD Pune, noted that the 1998 Gujarat cyclone that had hit Kandla was of a similar intensity. “The main reason for Tauktae’s sudden intensification is high surface temperatures in the Arabian Sea,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-braces-as-cyclone-makes-night-approach-101621277953466.html
18-05-2021||India||12 dead as storm leaves a trail of destruction||Bengaluru/Panaji/Thiruvananthapuram A day after cyclone Tauktae crossed the coastal areas of Karnataka and Goa, many places in the two states witnessed power and internet connectivity issues on Monday even as some areas remained inaccessible due to trees blocking highways.Officials in the disaster management department of the two state governments said that the assessment of the damage caused by the gusty winds of 120-140kmph could be done in a few days after the relief and rescue work is completed.Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant tweeted that Prime Minister Narendra Modi called and assured him of the central government’s assistance to the state in its recovery efforts. “Hon’ble Prime Minster @narendramodi ji personally called to enquire about the impact of cyclone Tauktae on the state of Goa. He has assured all possible assistance from the Central Government,” Sawant tweeted. In Karnataka, heavy rains and and gusty winds continued to lash the coastal districts of Udupi, Dakshina Kannada and Uttara Kannada. Loss of life and property was reported from three districts in the Malnad region -- Kodagu, Chikmagalur and Shivamogga -- which received relentless rain in the past two days.Officials said at least six people died due to the cyclone and its impact and 333 homes were damaged. The number of talukas or administrative units impacted has risen to 121 of the total 178 in the state.Around 57km of roads have been damaged and 547 persons have been evacuated so far, according to data from the state disaster management authorities. Around 104 boats have also been damaged along with 57 fishing nets, authorities said, adding road connectivity in several areas has been badly impacted. The officials also said that efforts were being made to restore power connections in areas where power lines were down. On Monday, all nine crew members of Tug Coromandel, a boat that was stranded at sea for over 24 hours, were rescued on Monday by naval forces flying an advanced light helicopter, according to Karnataka disaster management authorities. Five of the stranded crew members were rescued by boat, the officials said.The Goa chief minister held a meeting with top officials in the state to coordinate efforts to ensure the restoration of power and water supply as well as clearing roads blocked by debris or fallen trees. “[I have] issued directions to all the state government departments to work on war footing to restore essential services and also assess the damage in detail,” Sawant said. Sawant also spoke to Union home minister Amit Shah who he said “inquired about the widespread damage caused by the cyclone in the state and assured full support of all central agencies to the state for returning to normalcy.”The cyclone claimed two lives in Goa and injured three others while causing damage to scores of houses, power and mobile connectivity infrastructure, which the chief minister said, would take at least two days to restore. “People in Goa have been facing mobile network issues due to the disruption caused by Tauktae cyclone. Intra-Circle Roaming (ICR) facility has now been activated across Goa. You can switch over to any network which is available in your area through the manual settings of your device,” Sawant said. Kerala, which was the first Indian state to see the impact of the cyclone, high tides and winds continued to batter several coastal areas, two days after Tauktae moved upwards. According to officials, four persons died in two days and more than 5,000 people are still lining in relief camps after their dwellings were damaged.Some of the areas in north Kerala like Vadakara received more than 200mm rainfall in 24 hours but later it subsided a bit. The India Meteorological Department has sounded a yellow alert in all districts other than Thiruvananthapuram, Palakkad and Wayanad on Monday. Reeling under the impact of Covid-19, fishermen were asked not to venture into the sea for two more days.In Thiruvananthapuram 23 houses were completely destroyed and 50 suffered partial damage. In Kochi’s Chellanam, where gushing seawater came at least 100 metres inside, more than 100 houses were damaged. “Due to preparations, the human toll was limited this time but it left a trail of destruction throughout the state. Officials are surveying the affected areas to calculate damage,” said a senior revenue official. Besides houses, roads, power lines and other infrastructure were also damaged during the cyclonic storm.The cyclone comes as a double whammy to the western coastal states which continue to reel under the grip of the pandemic that has now started showing signs of a surge in rural areas, including those impacted by the cyclone. The cyclone has thrown life out of gear in these districts, which has impacted Covid-appropriate behaviour, according to multiple persons aware of the developments.Thousands of persons from coastal districts, who were shifted to safer locations in the wake of the cyclone, were sent back to their homes as cyclonic winds receded. However, heavy rains in some parts of Karnataka and Goa caused flooding, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/12-dead-as-storm-leaves-a-trail-of-destruction-101621277951445.html
18-05-2021||India||CoWIN portal in Hindi, 14 regional languages soon||The CoWIN platform, which is the backbone of the Covid-19 vaccine delivery system in the country, will be made available in Hindi and 14 regional languages by next week, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said on Monday.The official made the announcement at a high-level meeting chaired by Union health minister Harsh Vardhan with a group of ministers on the Covid situation.“This was in the pipeline for some time keeping in mind the convenience of people who are not comfortable with the English language. The portal will be tweaked accordingly,” a government official familiar with the developments said, requesting anonymity.Vardhan, meanwhile, told the meeting that the Centre has decided to add 17 more laboratories to the Indian Sars-Cov-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG) to scale up genome sequencing of samples of Covid-19 patients, taking the network of advanced laboratories to 27 across the country.Also Read| Covishield second dose appointment booked already won't be cancelled: Govt“Seventeen new labs are going to be added to the INSACOG network to increase the number of samples screened and allow for more spatial analysis. The network is presently served by 10 labs located at different corners of the country,” he said.According to the INSACOG data shared by the government till May 5, 18,453 samples were genome sequenced of which 3,532 were found to be variants of concern. The United Kingdom-identified variant, B.1.1.7 lineage, was found predominant in samples collected in Punjab and Chandigarh between February and March this year.India’s Covid-19 testing capacity has also been scaled up to 2.5 million per day amid a surge in cases.Dr Balaram Bhargava, secretary, department of health research, and director of general Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), spoke on the innovative changes in testing policy that would widen its scope of application and help in mass screening for Covid-19, particularly in peri-urban and rural settings where health infrastructure is relatively weak.“The deployment of mobile reverse transcription- polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) testing vans and amplification of rapid antigen tests was the way forward. While the present capacity is around 25 lakhs (RT-PCR -13 lakh and RAT- 12 lakh), this is projected to exponentially increase to 45 lakhs (RT PCR-18 lakh and RAT- 27 lakh) under the new testing regimen,” he said at the meeting.To check the demand and supply of essential medicines, a dedicated cell has been created by the department of pharmaceuticals.Also Read| Bharat Biotech, Serum Institute submit Covid vaccine production plans to Centre“A dedicated cell has been created to coordinate production and allocation of drugs in demand to treat Covid-19. Manufacturers have been advised to increase the production of drugs. The three-pronged strategy undertaken includes identification of new suppliers and addressing operative issues faced by suppliers exploring all the possible ways to meet the demand; national distribution of drugs to states to avoid hoarding in drug-producing states, constant monitoring of the supply chain and quick resolution of issues between states and suppliers; and enforcement against hoarding and black-marketing was also initiated through the drugs controller general of India and state drugs controllers,” S Aparna, secretary, department of pharmaceutical, said.The focus was particularly on the procurement and allocation of the antiviral drug, remdesivir, immunosuppressant, tocilizumab, and antifungal amphotericin-B.“Remdesivir production has more than tripled in the country with government intervention from around 39 lakh to 118 lakh vials per month. The demand for Amphotericin-B which is used for treatment of Mucormycosis has also increased. Five suppliers have been identified and efforts are being made for optimal allocation of the drug. States were given 1 lakh vials from 1st to 14th May, 2021, while avenues for import are being actively explored,” a statement by the health ministry read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cowinportal-in-hindi-14-regional-languages-soon-101621277652074.html
18-05-2021||India||Medical facilities in UP’s small towns, villages are ‘Ram bharose’: Allahabad HC||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court on Monday reprimanded the Uttar Pradesh government over the “casual approach of doctors and paramedical staff” in Meerut where a patient went missing and later his body was disposed of as unidentified, and said that the smaller cities and villages in the state can only be “Ram bharose (at God’s mercy)”.Taking serious note of the incident where a patient went missing from the Meerut district hospital and then disposed of his body as unidentified, the court said, “If this is the state of affairs of treatment at medical college in the city like Meerut then the entire medical system of the state pertaining to the smaller cities and villages can only be taken to be like a famous Hindi saying ‘Ram bharose’.” The court said it is a case of ‘high degree carelessness’.“A patient is admitted to the hospital in an absolute care of doctors and paramedical staff and if the doctors and paramedical staff adopt such casual approach and show carelessness in the performance of their duty, then it is a case of serious misconduct because it is something like playing with the lives of innocent people,” the court observed.The bench comprising justice Siddhartha Varma and justice Ajit Kumar passed the order in a suo motu PIL on ‘conditions of quarantine centres and for providing better treatment to corona positives’ in the state of Uttar Pradesh.The court directed additional chief secretary (Medical and Health), Uttar Pradesh to file an affidavit fixing responsibility in the matter. The bench took the example of district Bijnor as a test case to assess the overall health care system in smaller cities and rural areas of the state and after going through Covid testing data related to Bijnor, the bench expressed its dissatisfaction to the number of tests conducted in Bijnor between March 31, 2021 and May 12 , 2021.The bench said that in the population of 32 lakhs if the testing is done of only 1200 persons per day then the situation is not happy. The manner in which the pandemic has hit the rural areas of the State, the district administration is required to have a robust way of conducting tests.The bench directed the state government to immediately improve and increase the testing methods of the rural population and the population of small cities and towns and also provide sufficient health care infrastructure in such cities of state.The bench then said that we are under ‘serious threat of its third wave, hence, we need to vaccinate each and every individual in the country and we need to have an excellent medical infrastructure.The court has fixed May 22 as the next date of hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/facilities-in-up-s-small-towns-villages-are-ram-bharose-hc-101621276510802.html
18-05-2021||India||Narada probe: TMC targets Dhankhar over prosecution sanction||Kolkata The role of governor Jagdeep Dhankhar came into question as West Bengal’s ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) faced a new crisis on Monday following the arrest of two of its heavyweight ministers and a prominent legislator, with the former coming in for criticism from political circles and social media users. On May 9, Raj Bhawan said in a statement that the governor had accorded prosecution sanction to the CBI (Central Bureau of Investigation) against three TMC MLAs, Madan Mitra, Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim, and former party leader Sovan Chatterjee. This authorised the agency to file the charge sheet against the four. On May 10, Mukherjee and Hakim were sworn in as ministers at Raj Bhawan. Mitra took oath at the assembly on May 6. The statement issued by Raj Bhawan said: “Governor of West Bengal accorded sanction for prosecution in respect of Firhad Hakim, Subrata Mukherjee, Madan Mitra and Sovan Chatterjee, for the reason that all of them at the relevant time of commission of crime were holding the position of ministers in the government of West Bengal.” Dhankhar took oath as Bengal governor on July 30, 2019.In 2014, Delhi-based journalist Mathew Samuel conducted a sting operation on about a dozen TMC leaders and an Indian Police Service (IPS) officer. The videos were made public before the Bengal assembly polls in 2016 and the CBI was asked to conduct a probe by the Calcutta high court and the Supreme Court in March 2017. A controversy has broken out over the governor using the interregnum between two governments to accord his consent; in the normal course of events this consent would have been needed from the speaker of the assembly. “The CBI has to seek sanction from the assembly speaker to file a charge sheet against a member of the House. It was not done. According to the Constitution, the speaker is always in office, even during the period when an old government is being replaced by a new one. The speaker’s office falls vacant only when a new speaker is elected. A bell is rung in the House to announce that the speaker is vacating his chair. This is clearly stated in Article 179 of the Constitution,” Bengal assembly speaker Biman Banerjee, who is also a senior lawyer, told HT on Monday evening. “I do not know under which provision and with what intention the governor gave such a clearance to the CBI. I was completely bypassed. Moreover, this case is still pending at the Calcutta high court. The court asked the CBI during the last hearing if it sought sanction from the speaker for prosecuting sitting MLAs. The advocate general informed the court in writing that the CBI did not seek any sanction for filing the charge sheet. The agency bypassed the high court as well. The court did not ask the CBI to seek sanction from the governor,” said Banerjee. CPI(M) Rajya Sabha member and noted lawyer Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharya said the TMC should not question Dhankhar for giving sanction for prosecuting the TMC ministers and MLAs as the probe was ordered by the court. “Why is the TMC blaming the governor? This is a legal issue and the probe was ordered by the Calcutta high court and the Supreme Court. If the state government has a contention it is free to move the court. However, the governor is not playing his role as drafted in the Constitution. His recent activities and statements show that he is acting in a partisan manner,” said Bhattacharya who earlier served as advocate general of Tripura for five years. While angry TMC workers staged an agitation and burnt effigies of the governor and Prime Minister Narendra Modi across Bengal, Dhankhar tweeted that the law and order situation in Bengal was deteriorating. TMC workers also staged a demonstration outside Raj Bhawan. “Message @MamataOfficial “Total lawlessness & anarchy. Police and administration in silence mode. Hope you realize repercussions of such lawlessness and failure of constitutional mechanism. Time to reflect and contain this explosive situation that is worsening minute by minute,” he wrote. “Invited attention @MamataOfficial “On channels and in public domain I notice arson and pelting of stones at CBI office. Pathetic that Kolkata Police @KolkataPolice and West Bengal Police @WBPolice are just onlookers. Appeal to you to act and restore law and order,” said another tweet. TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh said, “He came to Bengal as an agent of the BJP. It has been proved once again.” Bengal BJP general secretary Sayantan Basu, however, said that the governor acted in accordance with law. “He is aware of the Constitutional provisions,” he said. Dhankar’s office said he was not available for comments as he was busy in meetings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/narada-probe-tmc-targets-dhankhar-over-prosecution-sanction-101621276330857.html
18-05-2021||India||Govt rolls out DRDO-formed Covid drug, experts call for more research||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Monday launched an anti-Covid drug developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) in collaboration with Hyderabad-based Dr Reddy’s laboratories (DRL), calling it “a new ray of hope in these challenging times”, although experts called for more scientific data.The oral drug 2-DG (2-deoxy-D-glucose) was approved by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) on May 8 as an adjunct therapy – one that supplements regular treatment – for Covid-19. DRDO and its partner DRL carried out a phase II trial with 40 volunteers last year and a phase III trial with 220 in 2021, according to the filings on the Clinical Trials Registry - India.Assessments from neither have been shared yet and it was not clear from which trials the DRDO officials were determining their efficacy assessments.“The peer-reviewed research is expected to be published soon,” a senior DRDO official said, asking not to be named.The registries also did not report in what proportion volunteers were randomised to be given 2-DG or the standard Covid care.Defence minister Singh, who handed over the first batch of the drug to Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said the drug would reduce oxygen dependency and help patients recover sooner, citing the unreleased trial findings.One box each of the drug sachets was also handed over to All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) director Dr Randeep Guleria and Lieutenant General Sunil Kant of Armed Forces Medical Services (AFMS). The drug will be made available for emergency use at different hospitals across the country, the defence ministry said in a statement.“The development and production of the drug is a shining example of public-private sector partnership to help the nation in these challenging times,” the defence minister said. He added that the drug was a perfect example of India’s scientific prowess and a milestone in the efforts towards self-reliance.“In efficacy trends, the patients treated with 2-DG showed faster symptomatic cure than Standard of Care (SoC) on various endpoints. A significantly favourable trend (2.5 days difference) was seen in terms of the median time to achieving normalisation of specific vital signs parameters when compared to SoC,” the defence ministry said in statement on May 8.“It was an adaptive phase II/III trial that was conducted to determine safety and efficacy of this drug in Covid-19 patients. The drug was originally meant for treating cancer patients and then tried in Covid-19 patients with a modified dosage. The trial results were promising as it showed reduction in viral load as it impedes viral replication; length of hospitalisation also reduced; and it also reduces steroid and oxygen requirement,” said Dr Akshay Budhraja, from the respiratory medicine department at Delhi’s Aakash Healthcare Super Speciality Hospital, which was one of the trial locations. Dr Budhraja was one of the trial investigators.Experts said such announcements must be accompanied with evidence. “I am not commenting on the efficacy of the drug, all I ask for is the evidence. You cannot create false hopes as you would stop patients from taking real medicines. It is not a good scientific practice to do trials and sit on the data. Trial data should ideally be published in peer-reviewed top journals so that those people who are not a part of the clinical trial can study it, question it and cross-check the legitimacy of the trial,” said CM Gulhati, editor, Monthly Index of Medical Specialities (MIMS), pharmaceutical reference guide.“I think we are really getting overactive in terms of approvals and that is not good for medical science as people who conduct clinical trials have vested interest in showing positive trial results,” he said. “And everything is online these days; how much time will it take to put stuff online for people to scrutinise a claim?” he added.The drug 2-deoxy-D-glucose has been used for decades as a possible cancer therapy as research has shown that it hampers cell growth by blocking cellular glucose supply, leading to its use as a tumor therapeutics. The hypothesis in its use in treating Covid-19 is that it could impair replication of Sars-Cov-2 by a similar mechanism of action.The drug has still not been approved by regulators for regular cancer therapy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-rolls-out-drdo-formed-covid-drug-experts-call-for-more-research-101621273630709.html
18-05-2021||India||PM Modi lauds doctors for Covid fight, suggests regular oxygen audits||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday urged doctors to include an oxygen audit in their daily routines, form groups with MBBS students to provide telemedicine services in rural areas, and called for extra efforts to spread awareness about mucormycosis, or the black fungus disease, according to a government statement.In a virtual meeting attended by doctors from J&K, Jaipur and Imphal, the PM lauded the medical experts for “continuously fighting this long battle against the virus” and said that it must be “mentally challenging for the medical fraternity, but the power of faith of citizens stands with them in this fight”.Modi also said that 90% of India’s frontline Covid-19 workers have been inoculated in a vaccination strategy that has paid “rich dividends”.The doctors, during the interaction, pointed out that in the prolonged fight against Covid, every effort was being made to also take proper care of non-Covid patients, the government statement said.With some parts of India reeling facing a shortage of medical oxygen and ICU beds, the PM told doctors to include an oxygen audit in their daily routines, and discussed how the treatment of Covid-19 patients in home isolation should be done through a standard operating procedure, or SOP.With tele-consultancy gaining importance during the pandemic, Modi said that such services need to be expanded in rural areas as well. “He lauded the doctors who are forming teams and providing telemedicine service in villages. He appealed to doctors across the states to form similar teams, train final year MBBS students and MBBS interns, and work towards ensuring that all tehsils and districts of the country have telemedicine service,” said the official media release.This was the third interaction between the PM and the doctors during the pandemic.The doctors thanked the PM for prioritising the health care workers for vaccination and underlined that in the fight against Covid, and shared their experiences of increasing awareness among the public, including about sensitising patients, against the improper use of medicines, the release said.On Tuesday, Modi will be interacting with field officials from states and districts to talk about their experience in handling the pandemic. Officials said the meeting was aimed at sharing best practises, and suggesting ways and means to fight Covid-19 particularly in semi-urban and rural areas.Officials from Karnataka, Bihar, Assam, Chandigarh, Tamil Nadu, Uttarakhand, MP, Goa, Himachal Pradesh, and Delhi will take participate in the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-lauds-doctors-for-covid-fight-suggests-regular-oxygen-audits-101621273450706.html
18-05-2021||India||Clotting, bleeding cases after jab minuscule: Govt||India has reported clotting and bleeding events in just 0.61 for every million doses of the Covishield vaccine administered to people, the Union health ministry said on Monday, citing a report submitted by the national adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) committee that highlights the safety of the most widely used vaccine in the country. The assessment was based on the analysis of 498 serious AEFIs reported as on April 3 -- by then, 75 million doses had been administered in all. Concerns over the risk of blood clots relate to one of the two vaccines used in India -- Covishield, which is the Indian version of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine -- after several western countries began noticing cases . The data from India now shows it was seen only in 26 of the 498 AEFIs. “The AEFI committee has completed an in-depth case review of 498 serious and severe events, of which 26 cases have been reported to be potential thromboembolic (formation of a clot in a blood vessel that might also break loose and carried by the blood stream to plug another vessel) events – following the administration of Covishield vaccine – with a reporting rate of 0.61 cases/ million doses,” read the health ministry’s formal statement. Officials recorded close to 700 AEFIs in all from among the 75 million doses till April 3, but had detailed data for only 498. “Therefore, the denominator also had to be adjusted, and the number of Covishield and Covaxin doses was proportionally reduced,” said Dr NK Arora, who chairs the National AEFI committee.  Going by this calculation, the AEFI assessment was likely to have been based on a little over 42 million doses administered till that time. “AEFI data in India showed that there is a very minuscule but definitive risk of thromboembolic events. The reporting rate of these events in India is around 0.61/million doses, which is much lower than the 4 cases per million reported by UK’s regulator Medical and Health Regulatory Authority. Germany has reported 10 events per million doses,” the statement added.Serum Institute of India (SII) locally manufacturers Oxford-AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccine under the brand name Covishield, which is one of the two vaccines currently being used under national Covid-19 immunisation programme. The other is Covaxin, made by Bharat Biotech.Alerts were raised in some countries on post-vaccination ‘embolic and thrombotic events’ on March 11, particularly with the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine. In the aftermath, India decided to conduct an in-depth analysis of the adverse events (AE). “Bleeding and clotting cases following Covid-19 vaccination in India are minuscule and in line with the expected number of diagnoses of these conditions in the country, a report submitted by the National AEFI (Adverse Event Following Immunization) Committee to the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare said,” read the statement.The clotting reports initially were seen to have triggered some vaccine hesitancy, although India now has a demand that is in excess of supply. There were no such potential clotting or bleeding event reported among those who were administered Covaxin doses. The national AEFI committee noted that as on April 3, 2021, at least 75 million (75,435,381) vaccine doses had been administered (Covishield – 68,650,819; Covaxin – 6,784,562). Of these, 65,944,106 were first doses and 9,491,275 were given as the second dose.Since the Covid-19 vaccination drive was initiated on January 16, 2021, at least 23,000 adverse events were reported through the Co-WIN platform from 684 of the 753 districts of the country. Of these, only 700 cases— at the rate of 9.3 cases per million doses administered— were reported to be serious and severe in nature, according to the report.The report also says that the thromboembolic events keep occurring in general population as background and scientific literature suggests that this risk is almost 70% less in persons of South and South East Asian descent in comparison to those from European descent. Data on the incidence in the clots in the general population was not provided by the ministry. The ministry of health is separately issuing advisories to healthcare workers and vaccine beneficiaries to encourage people to be aware of suspected thromboembolic symptoms occurring within 20 days after receiving any Covid-19 vaccine (particularly Covishield), and report to the health facility where vaccine was administered.Among symptoms that need to be watched out for are breathlessness; chest pain, pain in limbs or pain on pressing limbs or swelling in limbs (arm or calf); multiple, pinhead size red spots or bruising of skin in an area beyond the injection site; persistent abdominal pain with or without vomiting; seizures in the absence of previous history of seizures with or without vomiting; severe and persistent headache with or without vomiting (in the absence of previous history of migraine or chronic headache); weakness or paralysis of limbs or any particular side or part of the body (including face); persistent vomiting without any obvious reason; blurred vision or pain in eyes or having double vision; and change in mental status or having confusion or depressed level of consciousness.The list also includes any other symptom or health condition which is of concern to the recipient or the family.At least 164.6 million doses of Covishield was administered as on May 17, 2021, the Co-WIN dashboard showed on Monday.“Health ministry is continuously monitoring the safety of all Covid-19 vaccines and is promoting reporting of suspected adverse events. Covishield, the Covid-19 vaccine, continues to have a definite positive benefit risk profile with tremendous potential to prevent infections and reduce deaths due to Covid-19 across the world and in India,” the ministry statement read.“Vaccination is the most potent weapon to fight the pandemic. The vaccines are safe, and should be taken by everyone unless contraindicated,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head, pulmonology department, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/061-per-million-covishield-doses-reported-clotting-bleeding-health-ministry-101621247050215.html
18-05-2021||NA||Cyclone Tauktae Highlights: Gujarat's coastal areas witness power outages||Over 200,000 people were on Monday evacuated from their homes in Gujarat to safe places as the extremely severe cyclonic storm Tauktae began landfall in the state. The landfall process took place between 9pm to 12am, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).Officials told news agency PTI that no casualties have been reported in Gujarat so far. IMD, meanwhile, said Cyclone Tauktae has now weakened into very severe cyclonic storm.As a precautionary measure, authorities closed ports and a main airport ahead of the cyclone's landfall on Monday which has killed at least 12 people so far.Among the affected states, coastal states of Kerala, Karnataka, Goa and Maharashtra have witnessed destruction and deaths due to severe storm which has uprooted trees and disrupted power supply.Read all the latest updates on Cyclone Tauktae here"This will be the most severe cyclone to hit Gujarat in at least 20 years. This can be compared with the 1998 cyclone that hit Kandla and inflicted heavy damage," state revenue secretary Pankaj Kumar told news agency Reuters.The 1998 cyclone that ravaged Gujarat killed at least 4,000 people and caused hundreds of millions of dollars in damage, media reported at the time.Cyclone Tauktae has increased pressure on local administrations already battered by a high caseload of Covid-19 infections and overwhelmed health infrastructure.Also read | Cyclone Tauktae: Mumbai airport shut for 3 hours today, Bandra-Worli link closedGujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani said all measures were being taken to deal with the situation.Follow all the updates here:Cyclone crosses Saurashtra coastVery Severe Cyclonic Storm “Tauktae” crossed Saurashtra coast.THE VERY SEVERE CYCLONIC STORM ‘TAUKTAE’ LAY CENTRED AT 0030 HRS IST OVER SAURASHTRA, ABOUT30 KM NORTHEAST OF DIU. pic.twitter.com/k6xpIqk1r7Gujarat's coastal areas witness power outagesSeveral towns and villages experienced power outages in areas near Gujarat's coast after cyclone Tauktae began landfall on Monday night. Centre of cyclone lies overland about 20km east-northeast of DiuCyclone Tauktae updateAt 2230 IST - centre of the cyclone now lies overland about 20kms East-northeast of Diu.The landfall process will continue for next 2hrs. pic.twitter.com/Wtys5trofN60 rescued from ONGC's barge P305 till now: OfficialsA total of 60 personnel have been rescued from ONGC's barge P305 till now, officials told Hindustan Times on Monday adding 42 of these were rescued by INS Kochi and 18 by offshore support vessel Energy Star. Search and rescue operations will continue throughout the night for the remaining crew. A total of 261 personnel were deployed for offshore drilling in Bombay High in the Arabian Sea.Eight dead in Karnataka; 121 villages affected: State govtEight people have died so far in Karnataka after cyclone Tauktae hit the coastal and surrounding Maland districts of the state, officials told news agency PTI on Monday. As many as 121 villages in seven districts- Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Uttara Kannada, Kodagu, Chikkamagaluru, Hassan and Belagavi- are affected by the cyclonic storm, Karnataka state disaster management authority (SDMA) said in its situation report.NDRF force clears tree fell in Diu due to cyclone TauktaeForecasters warned of possible extensive damage from high winds, heavy rainfall and flooding in low-lying areas.Over 55 flights cancelled at Mumbai airportMore than 55 flights, both incoming and outbound, were cancelled at the city's Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) on Monday after the private airport operator was forced to suspend all air services at 11 am due to cyclone 'Tauktae'. These cancellations apart, some seven incoming flights were also diverted to various airports. The CSMIA for the fourth time in the day extended the closure of operations till 10 pm after first announcing that the airport will remain closed for three hours, starting 11 am.Indian Navy deploys 3 warships to rescue over 400 peopleThe Indian Navy on Monday deployed three of its frontline warships to rescue over 400 people onboard two barges off the Mumbai coast as cyclone Tauktae roared up the western coast.Navy officials said 38 people out of 137 onboard 'GAL Constructor' were rescued under extreme weather conditions and very rough seas.The ships deployed to extend assistance to the two barges are INS Kolkata, INS Kochi and INS Talwar, Navy officials said.Cyclone Tauktae landfall process to take 3 more hours to complete: IMDThe landfall process of the severe cyclonic storm Tauktae is continuing and will take three more hours to complete, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) informed. "Landfall process is continuing, it will take another 03 hours to complete the landfall process," tweeted IMD.Cyclone Tauktae makes landfall: IMDPowerful Cyclone Tauktae made landfall in western India late Monday, as heavy rains and strong winds battered the region and officials evacuated thousands of people including Covid-19 patients from hospitals near the coast."The (Extremely Severe Cyclonic Storm) Tauktae lies close to Gujarat coast. The landfall process started and will continue during next 02 hours," the Indian Meteorological Department tweeted.Indian Army puts 180 teams and 9 engineer task forces on standbyThe Indian Army said on Monday it has put 180 teams and nine engineer task forces on standby to face any contingency as Cyclone Tauktae is likely to hit the Gujarat coast on Monday evening."Sector commanders and Divisional HQ (headquarter) are in touch with District Collectors and the Revenue Commissioner who is the nodal agency for relief activities in Gujarat," the Army said in a statement.Strong winds at 114 kmph strike MumbaiWinds blew at 114 kmph in Mumbai on Monday afternoon as the extremely severe cyclonic storm Tauktae was passing close to the Mumbai coast barrelling towards Gujarat, civic officials said.However, as per the Mumbai IMD, the highest wind speed of 108 km per hour was recorded at the Colaba observatory in the afternoon, said Shubhangi Bhute, senior director, IMD Mumbai.Two barges with 410 personnel adrift in Bombay High, but all onboard safe: AfconsThe severe cyclonic storm Tauktae pounding the West Coast de-anchored two Afcons-owned barges working at the Bombay High with 410 personnel but all the staff are safe and the barges have been steadied back, the constriction major said Monday evening.Earlier in the day, PTI quoting an ONGC official had said the barge belonged to the national energy major but later ONGC clarified that the barges were hired by them and personnel are of the contractor Afcons, which is owned by the Shapporji Pallonji Group of Cyrus Mistry.Railways monitoring vulnerable areas, key bridgesThe Railways Ministry on Monday said that it is taking all the measures to face the cyclonic storm Tauktae and vulnerable areas and important bridges are being constantly monitored by its engineering wing.According to a statement issued by the ministry, all zonal and divisional controls are monitoring the situation and constantly in touch with all the railway stations in Southern Railway, South Western Railway, Konkan Railway, Central Railway and Western Railway.Mumbai airport to remain shut till 8 pm due to cyclone alertThe city's Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport has extended the suspension of all air services to 8 pm from 6 pm announced earlier due to the cyclone 'Tauktae'.This is the third time in the day, the private airport operator has extended the closure of operations after first announcing it for three hours, starting 11 am. "The closure of the flight operations at CSMIA has been extended further till 2000 hours of May 17," the private airport operator said in the updated statement.Six die in Konkan region of MaharashtraSix persons were killed in Maharashtra's Konkan region in separate incidents related to the severe cyclonic storm 'Tauktae' while three sailors remained missing after two boats sank in the sea, a statement and officials said on Monday.Of the six, three persons died in Raigad district, a sailor in Sindhudurg district while two persons were killed in Navi Mumbai and Ulhasnagar after trees fell on them, in Thane district, officials said.Two boats anchored at the Anandwadi harbour in Sindhudurg district capsized, an official statement said, adding seven sailors were on board the two vessels.Rajnath reviews military’s preparations for cyclone relief; warships on standbyWith Tauktae intensifying from a very severe to an extremely severe cyclonic storm, defence minister Rajnath Singh on Monday reviewed the military’s preparations to provide humanitarian assistance and disaster relief to states affected by the cyclone even as warships and rescue teams are on standby for relief work, officials familiar with the development said.Aaditya Thackeray reviews situation in MumbaiMaharashtra minister Aaditya Thackeray on Monday paid a visit to the BMC's disaster management cell here to review the situation arising out of the cyclonic storm Tauktae and said the authorities are doing everything to keep the people of the city safe.Gusty winds and heavy showers lashed Mumbai and its neighbouring areas on Monday due to the impact of the "very severe cyclonic storm" Tauktae which has barreled towards the Gujarat coast.Strong winds and heavy rains uprooted trees and disrupted suburban train services in the metropolis, officials said.Mumbai cops maintain vigil amid rains, windsPolice personnel in Mumbai have been asked to stay on high alert and communication as well as flood-related life-saving equipment have been kept ready in view of rains and gusty winds expected on Monday as cyclone Tauktae moves towards the coast of Gujarat, an official said.He said adequate manpower had been made available in police stations and traffic posts on the roads of the metropolis."All police stations and posts have been asked to check communication equipment like wireless sets and public address systems to ensure they are working optimally. The same instructions have been given for vehicles and life-saving and rescue items like life jackets, first-aid kits, ropes, hammers, emergency lighting, stretchers etc," the official informed.PM speaks to Goa CM on damage caused by cyclone TauktaePrime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant over phone on Monday to enquire about damage caused in the state by cyclone Tauktae, an official said.Two persons had died on Sunday in separate incidents caused due to gusty winds triggered by cyclone Tauktae, which also damaged around 100 houses and blocked some highways due to the falling of trees, the CM had earlier said.The major impact of the cyclonic winds was felt in Bardez taluka in North Goa and Mormugao in South Goa, he had said.Tauktae effect: Orange, yellow rain alerts for MP districtsThe India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Monday issued an orange or "be prepared" alert for heavy rains in 13 districts in Madhya Pradesh even as the state received intermittent showers during the day due to cyclone Tauktae, an official said.The IMD also issued a yellow alert for thunderstorms with lightning and gusty winds at speeds of 40 50 kilometres per hour in isolated places of nine divisions till Tuesday morning.The orange alert is for 13 districts, including Narsinghpur, Alirajpurand and Mandsaur, while the yellow alert has been issued for Bhopal, Indore, Jabalpur, Gwalior and Jabalpur divisions among others.Tauktae landfall on Monday night: 1.5 lakh people movedWith the tropical cyclone Tauktae set to cross the Gujarat coast and make a landfall as an "extremely severe cyclonic storm" by Monday night, the state government has shifted over 1.5 lakh people to safer places and mobilised disaster response teams.The Centre has offered all help to Gujarat to deal with the cyclone and asked the Army, Navy and the Air Force to remain on standby to assist the administration if need arises, the state government said.PM Modi dials Gujarat CM Vijay RupaniPM called up Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani and took stock of the preparations to deal with cyclonic storm Tauktae which has intensified into a very severe cyclonic storm and is expected to reach the Gujarat coast in the night.The prime minister assured the state government of all possible help to deal with the situation."Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday evening called up Chief Minister Vijay Rupani over the phone and sought details of preparation by the state government to deal with cyclone Tauktae," the Chief Minister's Office said in a release.Heavy rains likely in Rajasthan tomorrowClose to a dozen districts in Rajasthan would witness heavy to very heavy rainfall on Tuesday as an impact of Cyclone Taukatae. The respective collectors, SPs and others have been directed to be on vigil and be prepared with a contingency plan.According to the Met department, the state would be witnessing gusty winds and heavy rainfall in Pali, Udaipur, Jalore, Dungarpur and Sirohi on May 18, and in Ajmer, Jodhpur, Kota, Jaipur and Bharatpur on May 19.PM Modi speaks to Uddhav Thackeray on Cyclone TauktaePrime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday on the Cyclone Tauktae related situation in the state, official sources said.The cyclonic storm over the Arabian Sea led to very strong winds blowing at a speed of 114 kmph in Mumbai on Monday afternoon, civic officials said.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said that Cyclone Tauktae has now intensified into an "extremely severe cyclonic storm". It is likely to reach Gujarat coast by Monday evening and cross the state coast between 8 pm and 11 pm, the IMD said.Modi had on Saturday reviewed the preparedness to deal with the cyclone's fallout in a high-level meeting which was attended by several ministries and agencies concerned.121 villages affected in Karnataka, six deadSix people have lost their lives so far in the Cyclone Tauktae-hit coastal and surrounding Malnad districts of Karnataka, officials said on Monday.According to a situation report by Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority officials, till this morning, 121 villages and 22 taluks have been affected by the cyclone so far.A total of 547 people have been evacuated till now, it said, 290 people are currently taking shelter in the 13 relief camps that have been opened.Damages to a total of 333 houses, 644 poles, 147 transformers, 3,004.3 meters of lines, 57 km of road, 57 nets and 104 boats have been reported so far, it said adding that, agriculture crop loss has been estimated in about 30 ha till now and horticulture crop loss is about 2.87 ha.Cyclone Tauktae ‘extremely severe’; expected to hit Gujarat coast tonightNavy, Coast Guard on high alert as Tauktae passes Mumbai coastThe Indian Navy and the Indian Coast Guard (ICG) are on high alert as severe cyclonic storm Tauktae passes the Mumbai coast towards Gujarat on Monday.The navy has kept its Flood Rescue Teams at INS Shikra in Colaba, INS Trata in Worli, Material Organisation in Ghatkopar, INS Tanaji in Mankhurd, and INS Hamla in Malad ready for deployment.2 dead in Maharashtra's Konkan regionTwo persons died in Maharashtra's Konkan region in separate incidents related to the severe cyclonic storm Tauktae, the state government said on Monday.Two boats anchored at the Anandwadi harbour in Sindhudurg district drowned, an official statement said, adding that seven sailors were on board the two vessels.A sailor, identified as Rajaram Kadam, from Devgad taluka in the district died in the incident, while three others were missing.The three other sailors were safe, the statement said.Raigad receives 23.42mm rains, 839 homes damagedRaigad in coastal Maharashtra received 23.42 millimetres if rainfall till 9am on Monday in the wake of cyclone Tauktae, with the region also experiencing gusty winds since midnight that partially damaged 839 houses, a senior official said.A release from the district collector's office said 8,383 people belonging to 2,263 families staying in homes along the seafront had been evacuated as a precautionary measure.Train services affected in MumbaiLocal trains services of the Central Railway were disrupted between suburban Ghatkopar and Vikhroli for about half-an-hour as a tree fell on an overhead wire while a train was heading towards neighbouring Thane, a railway spokesperson said.Services on the harbour line, that provides rail connectivity to Navi Mumbai, were also affected after a vinyl banner fell on an overhead wire between Chunabhatti and Guru Tej Bahadur stations around 11.45 am.The banner was removed after about half-an-hour and train services were resumed, he said.Due to the strong wind, some plastic sheets covering the roof of the common passenger area between the suburban and main lines at the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) were blown away in the morning, he said.Tauktae intensified rapidly this morning, took IMD and scientists by surpriseTauktae intensified from a very severe to an extremely severe cyclonic storm rapidly on Monday morning, taking weather experts and scientists by surprise.“Tauktae intensified very rapidly this morning. We did not state that it would intensify to an extremely severe cyclone in our forecast. But it did because of extremely favourable oceanic and atmospheric conditions,” said M Mohapatra, director general, India Meteorological Department (IMD).Mumbai airport to remain shut till 4 pm due to cyclone alertAll operations at the city's Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) will now remain shut till 4 pm in the wake of cyclone Tauktae, the private airport operator said on Monday. CSMAI had earlier decided to suspend flight services from 11 am to 2 pm. “In the wake of the cyclone, the closure of flight operations at Mumbai Airport has been extended till 1600 hours on May 17,” CSMIA said in its latest statement.Further, three city-bound flights operated by budget carriers IndiGo and SpiceJet were diverted due to the closure of all services at the city airport.Heavy showers, strong winds in Mumbai; IMD upgrades rain forecastGusty winds and heavy showers lashed Mumbai and its neighbouring areas on Monday as the "very severe cyclonic storm" Tauktae headed towards Gujarat, uprooting trees and disrupting local train services in the metropolis, officials said.The IMD has warned of extremely heavy rain and wind speed upto 120 kmph over the next few hours, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said in the afternoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-tauktae-live-updates-gujarat-braces-for-severe-storm-in-20-years-strong-wind-and-heavy-showers-in-mumbai-101621241929391.html
18-05-2021||NA||Highlights: Gujarat govt extends partial Covid lockdown in state for 3 more days||India on Monday recorded 281,386 fresh Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, according to Union health ministry dashboard. As many as 4,106 new deaths were also registered. The country has so far reported a total of 24.96 million cases and 274,390 deaths. India is currently reeling under a second Covid-19 wave.The global Covid-19 disease caseload has climbed to 163,697,584 of which 3,392,646 people have died and 142,146,432 have recovered, according to worldometers.info. The United States continues to remain the worst-hit country from the pandemic with 33,713,078 cases and 600,139 deaths respectively.The first batch of the 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2-DG) drug developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) for treatment of Covid-19 was launched by Union defence Minister Rajnath Singh and health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan earlier in the day.Meanwhile, UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson said the next step out of lockdown must be taken “with a heavy dose of caution” as more coronavirus restrictions are lifted on Monday.Follow all the updates here:Gujarat govt extends partial Covid lockdown in state for 3 more daysGujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani announced on Monday that the partial lockdown in state, which was supposed to end tomorrow, has been extended for three more days, according to news agency ANI.Telangana registers nearly 4,000 new Covid-19 cases, 30 deathsTelangana reports 3961 new #COVID19 cases, 5559 recoveries and 30 deaths in the last 24 hours.Total cases 5,32,784Total recoveries 4,80,458Death toll 2985Active cases 49,341 pic.twitter.com/Nx4HoJesIXRajasthan reports 11,597 fresh Covid-19 infectionsRajasthan reports 11,597 new #COVID19 cases, 29,459 recoveries and 157 deaths in the last 24 hours.Total cases 8,71,266Total recoveries 6,87,969Death toll 6934Active cases 1,76,363 pic.twitter.com/IVPr43va3xGovt revises clinical guidance for Covid-19 management, drops plasma therapyAIIMS/ICMR-COVID-19 National Task Force/Joint Monitoring Group, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, Government of India revised Clinical Guidance for Management of Adult #COVID19 Patients and dropped Convalescent plasma (Off label). pic.twitter.com/Dg1PG5bxGbOver 2,300 people in UK infected with Indian variant of Covid-19UK Health secretary Matt Hancock said that authorities 2,323 cases of Indian strain of Covid-19. Hancock said 86 different local authority areas had now found at least five people infected with the new variant, reported Bloomberg.Maharashtra reports 26,616 fresh Covid-19 infectionsMaharashtra reports 26,616 new Covid-19 cases and 516 deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the state health bulletin. Read moreWest Bengal logs over 19,000 new Covid-19 infections in last 24 hoursWest Bengal reports 19,003 new #COVID19 cases, 19,101 recoveries and 147 deaths today.Total cases 11,52,433Total recoveries 10,07,442Death toll 13,431Active cases 1,31,560 pic.twitter.com/PsDRvEzdRSKarnataka logs 38,603 new Covid-19 cases, 476 deathsKarnataka reports 38,603 new #COVID19 cases, 34,635 recoveries and 476 deaths in the last 24 hours.Total cases 22,42,065Total recoveries 16,16,092Death toll 22,313Active cases 6,03,639 pic.twitter.com/1LvcnuxdFATamil Nadu reports 33,075 fresh Covid-19 cases, 335 deathsTamil Nadu reports 33,075 new #COVID19 cases, 20,486 recoveries and 335 deaths in the last 24 hours.Total cases 16,31,291Total recoveries 13,81,690Death toll 18,005Active cases 2,31,596 pic.twitter.com/S618gg3cbgKerala reports 21,402 new Covid-19 infections, 87 deathsKerala reported 21,402 new Covid-19 cases on Monday. The death toll rose to 6515, with reporting of 87 deaths in the last 24 hours, ANI quoted chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan as saying.36 girls of two orphanages in Tripura test Covid-19 positiveIn two orphanages, 36 girls, aged between 5 and 16 years, tested positive for Covid-19 in Tripura, PTI quoted state education minister Ratan Lal Nath as saying.Nagaland launches free Covid-19 vaccination drive for people in age group of 18-44 yearsNagaland health minister S Pangnyu Phom launched free Covid-19 vaccination programme for people in the age bracket of 18-44 years, reported PTI.Russia reports 9,328 new Covid-19 cases in last 24 hoursRussia registered 9,328 new coronavirus infections over the past 24 hours, taking the nationwide tally to 4,949,573, ANI reported the official monitoring and response center as saying on Monday.400 cases of Indian Covid-19 variant detected in London: Sadiq KhanSadiq Khan, who was re-elected the mayor of London this month said the authorities are working to trace the contacts of 400 people who were detected with the Indian variant of Covid-19. 100 of those cases relate to travel, Khan said, reported Bloomberg.Delhi reports 4,524 new Covid-19 cases, 340 deathsDelhi logged 4,524 new Covid-19 cases and 340 deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the health bulletin. Read moreSouth Africa begins vaccinating elderly citizens against Covid-19South Africa has started its mass vaccination drive against Covid-19 with the goal of inoculating nearly 5 million elderly citizens aged over 60 years by early June, reported AP.Remdesivir production increased from 38 lakh vials to nearly 119 lakh per month: GovtProduction capacity of #Remdesivir has been increased from 38 lakh vials to nearly 119 lakh vials per month Substantial increase in number of manufacturing sites of Remdesivirhttps://t.co/YL2S9dKygg#Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/9YIKMNkOhtPhilippines logs 5,979 new Covid-19 casesPhilippines reported 5,979 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking the tally to 1,149,925, according to the Philippine Department of Health (DOH), reported Reuters.Delhi reports over 91,000 recoveries from Covid-19 last weekAbout 91,500 patients recovered from Covid-19 in Delhi in the last one week in comparison to 60,000 cases reported during the same period, as per the government data, reported PTI.Actor Rajinikanth hands over ₹50 lakh for Covid relief fund to Tamil Nadu CM MK StalinActor Rajinikanth handed over ₹50 lakh for Covid relief fund to Tamil Nadu Chief Minister MK Stalin at the secretariat."I appealed to the people to strictly follow Covid restriction favoured by the government to control the pandemic," said Rajinikanth.India's virus cases decline, but WHO expert says positive tests ominously highIndia reported a further decline in new coronavirus cases on Monday, but daily deaths remained above 4,000 and experts said the count was unreliable due to a lack of testing in rural areas where the virus is spreading fast.India's electricity use falls in May due to Covid-19 lockdownsIndia's electricity use fell 6.2% during the first half of May compared with the second half of April, government data showed, as coronavirus lockdowns imposed by states across the country stifled power demand.Over 2 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses available with states: CentreMore than two crore Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with the states and Union territories, while nearly three lakh doses are in the pipeline and will be received by them within the next three days, the Union health ministry said on Monday.Andhra Pradesh govt extends 18-hour partial lockdown till May endAndhra Pradesh government extends 18-hour partial lockdown till May end.Govt lays out procedure to rehabilitate children who lost parents to CovidThe government has laid out a procedure for rehabilitation of children who lost their parents to Covid-19.Frontline staff at Bangkok hospital brace for new Covid-19 casesAs Thailand struggles to deal with its worst wave of coronavirus infections, staff in the intensive care unit of Bangkok's King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital are fearful of what may be to come.Daily new Covid cases being registered in India are now less than 3 lakhs: GovtDaily new Covid cases being registered in India are now less than 3 lakhs after 26 days. A declining trend in the weekly positivity rate is also observed which stands at 18.17% : Government of India.Sanofi, Glaxo Covid vaccine works well in second chance: StudySanofi and GlaxoSmithKline Plc reported positive results from a redo of a mid-stage study for their Covid-19 vaccine, putting the delayed shot on track for possible clearance by the end of the year.Bengali poet Joy Goswami tests positive for Covid-19, admitted to Kolkata hospitalRenowned Bengali poet Joy Goswami, who tested positive for Covid-19, has been admitted to a hospital here, a health department official said.Taiwan stocks swoon on Covid-19 fears despite reassurance effortsTaiwan stocks closed 3% lower on Monday even as the premier sought to reassure that the island's economic fundamentals were good with demand for export orders strong and production activities normal.Rajnath Singh, Harsh Vardhan release 1st batch of anti-Covid drug 2DGDefence Minister Rajnath Singh and Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan release first batch of Anti-Covid drug 2DG developed by DRDO.J-K govt provides free Covid care kits to patients in home isolationJammu and Kashmir government is reaching out to Covid-19 patients in home isolation at their doorsteps and providing them special Covid care kits free of cost.UK Covid-19 restrictions eased despite variant concernsMost of the UK takes a major step towards normality on Monday as coronavirus restrictions are eased, despite concerns over the spread of a more transmissible variant of the disease.India's Covid-19 tally at 24.96 million with 281,386 fresh casesIndia on Monday recorded 281,386 fresh Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, according to Union health ministry dashboard. As many as 4,106 new deaths were also registered. The country has so far reported a total of 24.96 million cases and 274,390 deaths. India is currently reeling under a second Covid-19 wave.15,73,515 samples were tested yesterday: ICMR31,64,23,658 samples tested for Covid-19 up to 16th May 2021. Of these, 15,73,515 samples were tested yesterday: Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).Tamil Nadu forms legislators' Advisory Committee to combat Covid-19The Tamil Nadu Government on Sunday said that it had formed a thirteen-member Legislators' Advisory Committee which is headed by Chief Minister MK Stalin and comprises legislative assembly members to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic.S Africa plans to vaccinate 5 mn citizens at highest risk of Covid death by JuneSouth Africa has announced an ambitious plan to vaccinate by the end of June its five million citizens at the highest risk of dying from Covid-19 in the second phase of its programme to combat the pandemic.Thailand reports daily record of Covid-19 cases, including jail clustersThailand reported on Monday a daily record of 9,635 new coronavirus cases, including 6,853 infections among prisoners from jail clusters, as the Southeast Asian country struggles with a third wave of infections.Mizoram reports 150 new Covid-19 cases and 1 deathMizoram reports 150 new Covid-19 cases and 1 death on Sunday. Active cases at 2,117 and death toll at 25.Allocation of Remdesivir made upto May 23 to ensure adequate availability: GowdaConsidering the requirement of Remdesivir in every state and ensuring its adequate availability, Union Minister of Chemicals and Fertilisers DV Sadananda Gowda on Sunday announced that the allocation of Remdesivir has been made upto May 23.China reports 25 new mainland Covid-19 cases, most in over 6 weeksMainland China reported 25 new Covid-19 cases on May 16, up from 18 cases a day earlier and marking the highest daily increase in more than six weeks, the country's national health authority said on Monday.UNICEF says rich countries can afford to donate Covax jabsCountries belonging to the G7 and the European Union can afford to donate more than 150 million vaccines to countries in need without compromising their own goals, UNICEF said Monday.South Africa launches plan to vaccinate 5m citizens, at risk of Covid death, by JuneSouth Africa has announced an ambitious plan to vaccinate by the end of June its five million citizens at the highest risk of dying from Covid-19 in the second phase of its programme to combat the pandemic.Boris Johnson urges caution as B.1.617.2 variant from India clouds UK’s unlockingUK Prime Minister Boris Johnson said the next step out of lockdown must be taken “with a heavy dose of caution” as more coronavirus restrictions are lifted on Monday.Rajnath Singh to release first batch of DRDO's 2DG medicine todayThe first batch of the 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2-DG) drug developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) for treatment of Covid-19 will be released by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-india-world-latest-news-covid-19-death-toll-may-17-2021-101621208403891.html
