20-05-2021||India||Tamil Nadu cuts RT-PCR price, declares black fungus as notified disease||(PLAYBACK)ChennaiTamil Nadu on Thursday slashed prices of RT-PCR tests, introduced vaccines for the 18-45 age group and declared mucormycosis as a notified disease. The announcements came from a notice issued by state health secretary J Radhakrishnan.Governor Banwarilal Purohit declared mucormycosis or black fungus as a notified disease under the provisions of the Tamil Nadu Public Health Act, 1939, which means from now on all hospitals treating this fungal infection will have to notify the public health department. Nine people have been identified with mucormycosis in Tamil Nadu. “Of the nine, seven patients are diabetic,” Radhakrishnan said at a press briefing.“Treatment has been started for all of them. There is no death reported till now,” he said.The government reduced the price of RT-PCR tests from ₹1,200 to ₹900 in private labs across the state. For those who are covered under the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme (CMCHIS) the price has been reduced from ₹800 to ₹550. The prices of pooled samples are reduced from ₹600 to ₹400.Additionally, ₹300 can be levied for testing at home. After last year, this is the second time that prices are being capped. Tamil Nadu, as a policy, conducts only RT-PCR tests and not rapid antigen tests.Meanwhile, chief minister MK Stalin launched the vaccination drive for the 18-44 age group in the state from Tiruppur district. The state received 9.6 lakh vaccines from the Centre for this age group and has another 4.2 lakh to be received.Tamil Nadu was among several states who couldn’t roll out vaccines for this age group on May 1 due to shortage. However, private hospitals, which had procured more vaccines, initiated it for the age group. The state plans to procure 1.5 crore doses through the Centre and 3.5 crore doses through a global tender.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-cuts-rt-pcr-price-declares-black-fungus-as-notified-disease-101621533705917.html
20-05-2021||India||MHA asks states to help vulnerable sections, kids orphaned due to Covid-19||The Union home ministry on Thursday asked states and union territories to immediately review the facilities available for vulnerable groups, particularly children orphaned due to the Covid-19 disease, and coordinate with the agencies concerned as well as civil society groups to get them timely help.It asked the states to give priority to vulnerable sections including orphaned children, women, senior citizens and people from scheduled castes and scheduled tribes and sensitise police personnel in this context.In a detailed advisory issued on Thursday, MHA said: “Several states/UTs have initiated action and strengthened their machineries to support the vulnerable groups and various success stories and best practices are now available with states/UTs where emergency services have been provided to the vulnerable groups impacted by Covid-19.” “However, in order to meet the new challenges arising out of recent wave of Covid-19 affliction, it is requested to undertake an immediate review of the existing facilities for vulnerable groups interalia on the lines of the measures given in the various advisories issued by the MHA, especially for children who have been orphaned, senior citizens who may require timely assistance and support (medical as well as safety and security), and members of scheduled castes/ scheduled tribes who may need guidance to access government support facilities,” it added.There is no official data on how many children have been orphaned due to the pandemic but several state governments have announced various measures for the kids. Delhi government has said that children who have lost both their parents to Covid-19 will get an aid of ₹2,500 per month till they turn 25 years old and their education will also be taken care of by the government. Karnataka too has said it will rehabilitate orphaned children up to the age of 18 years. Madhya Pradesh has announced ₹5,000 per month to such children while Andhra Pradesh has announced fixed deposits worth ₹10 lakh for orphaned kids.Thursday’s communication reminded states about several advisories and standard operating procedures issued last year for the protection of vulnerable sections of the society. This includes release of ₹107.49 crore to state governments for setting up/strengthening women help desks in police stations. These help desks envisage to have an enlisted panel of experts like lawyers, psychologists, NGOs who can assist in accessing support, provide shelter, rehabilitation etc. and help in registration and follow-up in the cases giving required assurance and support to the women approaching them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-asks-states-to-help-vulnerable-sections-kids-orphaned-due-to-covid19-101621532805091.html
20-05-2021||India||Covishield versus Covaxin: What government says about comparing two Covid-19 vaccines||As people waiting for their vaccination against Covid-19 may be undecided about which vaccine to take between Serum Institute's Covishield and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, the Centre has clarified that they can not be compared with each other, scientifically. "There is no direct scientific comparison between the two available vaccines. So one can not choose one over the other. Both the vaccines work well in preventing the infection as well as in preventing severe illness. You can choose any of these, subject to the availability at your vaccine centre," the Centre said.There is no direct scientific comparison between the two Vaccines, Both work well in preventing the infection as well as in preventing severe illness.#IndiaFightsCOVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/MZsGyJfAueBoth these vaccines are available at present in the country though they are not available in the same centre. People can choose centres according to their vaccine preference on the Co-win app as centres are displaying the name of the vaccine they have on the site.The government has recently said that 26 potential cases of bleeding and clotting have been reported after the administration of the Covishield vaccine, which is minuscule. Since the beginning of the vaccination drive in January, 23,000 adverse events have been reported involving both Covishield and Covaxin and 700 were reported to be serious, while India's cumulative vaccination coverage exceeds 187 million.As far as the price per dose is concerned, Covishield comes cheaper than Covaxin. The Centre is hopeful to add Russia-made Sputnik-V to the list soon. The government has recently accepted the finding that the protection offered by the first dose of Covishield stays long and that's why the timing of the second dose has been delayed by 12 to 6 weeks. But Covaxin doses are supposed to be taken at the existing gap of 28 days.The composition of both the vaccines is different. Covishield, which is the Oxford-Astrazeneca vaccine, is made from a weakened version of a common cold virus that infects chimpansees. It also contains the genetic material of the SARS-CoV-2 virus spike protein. On the other hand, Covaxin has been developed from live inactive virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covishield-versus-covaxin-what-government-says-about-comparing-two-covid-19-vaccines-101621529875829.html
20-05-2021||India||AMU VC blames 'vaccine hesitancy' for Covid-19 deaths on campus||AMU Vice Chancellor Tariq Mansoor on Thursday said vaccine hesitancy played a big role in the spread of coronavirus in the campus, where at least 40 serving and retired teachers have died in recent weeks due to COVID or COVID-like symptoms.Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) authorities also launched a vaccination audit and urged all employees to provide their vaccination status and that of their family members for "future health planning and streamlining the vaccination drive".Also Read | Covid hits AMU; 50 serving, ex-staff die"Vaccine hesitancy has played a significant role in the incidence of large number of cases of COVID-19 among university employees and their families, and consequent morbidity and mortality," the VC said in an open letter to AMU community.Last week, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had visited the AMU campus and pointed that vaccination could have saved lives.Also Read | Covid-19: Yogi Adityanath visits AMU amid concerns of a ‘new strain’Notably, 19 serving teachers at the university and at least 21 retired teachers lost their lives due to COVID-19 and COVID-like symptoms in recent weeks.The Vice-Chancellor said two vaccination centres are currently operational at the campus and appealed to the AMU community to shed doubts regarding the efficacy of the vaccines in preventing any further loss of life."All studies indicate that vaccines provide protection against serious disease, hospitalizations and deaths," he said.To tackle the current crisis and prepare for a possible third wave of COVID, the Vice-Chancellor has also instituted a high-level 15 member committee to draw a roadmap for shoring up resources and medical facilities at the campus.The committee will be headed by the AMU registrar and will include the principal dean and the superintendent of the medical college hospital.It will also plan additional resources and equipment for the paediatric wards keeping in mind the possible threat to children.Earlier, at the request of the Vice-Chancellor, ICMR had conducted genome sequencing of coronavirus samples around the campus but found that no new strain was responsible for the large number of deaths in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amu-vc-blames-vaccine-hesitancy-for-covid-19-deaths-on-campus-101621528370527.html
20-05-2021||India||Bharat Biotech to ramp up Covaxin production by additional 200 million vaccine doses||Bharat Biotech on Thursday said it plans to produce additional 200 million doses of Covid-19 vaccine 'Covaxin' at its subsidiary's Ankleshwar (Gujarat) based facility, taking the overall production volume of the vaccine to 1 billion (100 crore) dosages per annum. The Hyderabad-based firm said it will utilise the Ankleshwar-based production facility of its wholly-owned subsidiary Chiron Behring Vaccines to add another 200 million doses of Covaxin. "The company plans to produce 200 million doses of Covaxin per annum in the GMP facilities that are already operational for the production of vaccines based on Inactivated Vero Cell Platform Technology, under stringent levels of GMP and biosafety," Bharat Biotech said in a statement. The Ankleshwar-based plant would start rolling out the much in demand vaccine from the fourth quarter of the year, it added. The company said it has already deployed multiple production lines at its Hyderabad and Bengaluru campuses. "This effectively takes the volumes up to 1 billion doses per annum, with its own established campuses specialised for manufacturing inactivated viral vaccines under the highest levels of biosafety," it added. Chiron Behring Vaccines, a 100 per cent subsidiary of Bharat Biotech, is one of the largest manufacturers of rabies vaccines in the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-biotech-to-ramp-up-covaxin-production-by-additional-200-million-covid-vaccine-doses-101621526188845.html
20-05-2021||India||6 things you should not do before or after vaccination, Centre issues guideline||With several changes newly introduced in the country's ongoing vaccination drive against Covid-19, the Centre has issued a guideline specifying some dos and don'ts so that there remains no confusion for people booking vaccine appointments online. Currently, India is in the third phase of the vaccination drive where people in the age group of 18 to 44 years are also eligible to get the vaccine, though the Centre has asked states to prioritise the vaccination of the 45+ people as Covid-19 is more threatening for older people.#IndiaFightsCorona:📍 Mandatory provisions during #COVID19Vaccination➡️ Do's👍➡️ Don'ts👎☑️ Have a look to know about this👇#Unite2FightCorona #StaySafeStayHealthy pic.twitter.com/iVOmflEMgtHere are the 6 things that one should not do:> Walk-in without an appointment. All slots are being booked online through Cowin registration.> One person should not register on multiple platforms.> One person should not use multiple phone numbers and multiple ID proofs from different platforms.> On the day of vaccination, one should not consume alcohol or any other intoxicants.> One should not panic in case of any vaccine side effect.> There is no need for registration on Cowin for the second dose.Also Read: Man gets Covishield jab and Covaxin certificateWho should defer their vaccination?According to the latest guidelines, people who have just recovered from Covid should wait for three months, instead of four weeks as mandated earlier, for their vaccination.The same waiting period of three months has been also advised for those who have been treated with plasma therapy, and those who got infected after receiving the first dose of the vaccine.People who have been hospitalised for any other illness should wait for four to eight weeks for the vaccination.New rules for the second dose of CovishieldThe 2nd dose of Covishield can be taken after 12 to 16 weeks of the 1st dose. The Cowin portal has been configured accordingly, but those who have already booked their appointments can take their second doses on the scheduled date if they want. They can also reschedule the second date to meet the new guideline of 84 days' gap.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-things-you-should-not-do-before-or-after-vaccination-centre-issues-guideline-101621525065895.html
20-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Delhi HC asks Centre for affidavit on anti-black fungus drug and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi HC asks Centre for affidavit on Amphotericin-B, an anti-black fungus drugThe Delhi high court on Thursday asked the Union government to file an affidavit before it within three days, on the steps taken to ramp up the production of Amphotericin-B, an antifungal drug used to treat Mucormycosis, or black fungus. Read more150 new ventilator beds from PM-Cares fund added to ITBP Covid care centreThe Covid care centre run by the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) in south Delhi's Chhatarpur on Thursday added a special ward with 150 ventilator beds meant for patients requiring critical care, officials said. Read moreULFA-I to release abducted ONGC employee after Himanta Biswa Sarma’s appealBanned United Liberation Front of Asom-Independent (ULFA-I) on Thursday said it will release Ritul Saikia, an employee of Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) abducted from Assam last month, within the next four days. Read moreEngland fast bowler Jofra Archer to undergo elbow surgery, highly doubtful for India Test seriesJofra Archer is set to undergo a surgery to his troubled elbow, which casts a serious doubt over his participation in England's five-Test series against India. Read moreSonu Sood says he feels ‘humbled’ after fans pour milk on his life-size posterSonu Sood has reacted to a video in which people are seen pouring milk on a life-size poster of his. As per a Twitter user, the incident took place in Andhra Pradesh. Read moreCher turns 75: Zendaya to Dua Lipa, celebrity red carpet looks inspired by CherThe Goddess of Pop, Cher, turns 75 today, and of the many laurels associated with the Oscar winner, being a fashion icon is right at the top. Read moreHow to tackle Black Fungus? Dr Faheem Younus answersIn this episode of On The Record, infectious diseases expert from the University of Maryland, Dr Faheem Younus explains how one can tackle Black Fungus. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-delhi-hc-asks-centre-for-affidavit-on-anti-black-fungus-drug-and-all-the-latest-news-101621521317142.html
20-05-2021||India||‘India-China ties at crossroads... tensions continue on LAC’: Jaishankar||The India-China relationship is at the crossroads and New Delhi cannot think of cooperating with Beijing in other areas as long as tensions continue on the Line of Actual Control (LAC), external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Thursday.The external affairs ministry too said the process of disengagement of Indian and Chinese troops at friction points in Ladakh sector remains “unfinished” and the full restoration of peace and tranquillity in border areas alone will lead to progress in bilateral ties.Jaishankar’s remarks, made during a virtual interview at the FT-Indian Express webinar, came in the wake of calls by the Chinese leadership for setting aside the border standoff that began a year ago and focusing on cooperation in other areas such as trade and investment.He accused China of moving away from the consensus on stabilising the border, which emerged from former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi’s groundbreaking visit to China in 1988. This consensus led to important border agreements in 1993 and 1996 that created three decades of peace and tranquillity on the LAC, he noted.“I think the relationship is at a crossroads and which direction we go depends on whether the Chinese side would adhere to the consensus, whether it would follow through on the agreements which we both have done for so many decades,” Jaishankar said.“Because what is very clear in the last year is that border tensions cannot continue with cooperation in other areas,” he added.Jaishankar pointed out it took 26 years for the two sides to recover from the fallout of the border war of 1962 and to forge consensus on the handling of the LAC, including two border agreements.“Those agreements essentially stipulated that you wouldn’t bring large armed forces to the border and that peace and tranquillity on the LAC would be observed, there would be no attempt to change the status quo unilaterally. What we saw last year was actually China departing from the 1988 consensus,” he said.“If you disturb the peace and tranquillity, if you have bloodshed, if there is intimidation, if there is continuing friction at the border, then obviously it is going to tell on the relationship,” he added.Twenty Indian soldiers and at least four Chinese troops were killed in a brutal clash in Galwan Valley last June, the first incident involving fatalities along the LAC in 45 years. The two sides pulled back frontline troops from the north and south banks of Pangong Lake in February but the disengagement process stalled soon after despite more rounds of military and diplomatic talks.When external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi was asked about the situation on the LAC at a weekly news briefing, he replied that Jaishankar had told his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi in their most recent conversation on April 30 that “while the process of disengagement had commenced earlier this year, it remained unfinished”.Jaishankar had emphasised this process should be completed at the earliest, Bagchi said. “Full restoration of peace and tranquillity in the border areas would enable progress in this bilateral relationship,” he added.The two sides had agreed to maintain stability on the ground and “avoid any new incidents”, and India expects that neither side would take “any action that is not in keeping with these understandings,” Bagchi said.Jaishankar also told the webinar that India’s interest extends from deep into the Indo-Pacific region to Africa and Europe, and that the country’s growing relationship with the US shouldn’t be viewed through a Cold War prism. The Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad, he said, brings together countries with a growing degree of comfort with each other and a shared interest in global and regional challenges such as connectivity, maritime security, resilient supply chains and vaccines.“Today, the Quad fills a gap which cannot be addressed simply by four bilateral relationships aggregated, and a multilateral or regional structure which isn’t there. Something has to fill that space [and the] Quad helps to fill the gap,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indiachina-ties-at-crossroads-tensions-continue-on-lac-jaishankar-101621524105195.html
20-05-2021||India||Himanta Biswa Sarma floats crowdfunding campaign to help keep ‘free vaccine’ pledge||Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Thursday appealed to the state’s residents to donate money to help the state fund Covid-19 vaccines for people in the 18-44 age group.Sarma estimated the government would have to spend ₹800 crore to vaccinate nearly 12 million residents in this age bracket and hoped the donations would raise about ₹100 crore. “I appeal to the state’s residents to make the ‘gift a vaccine’ campaign a mass movement. Gifting a vaccine is like giving life to someone. While two doses of Covishield cost ₹600, the same for Covaxin costs ₹800. People can give amounts equal to one dose or more depending on their financial capacity,” he said.Sarma’s Bharatiya Janata Party had promised free vaccines to people in the run-up to the state elections.The Centre only provides free Covishield and Covaxin doses to vaccinate those above 45 years. State governments have to bear the cost of vaccinating residents in the 18-44 age category. It is a promise, Sarma said on Thursday, that his government will deliver on irrespective of how the crowdfunding campaign shapes out. A similar appeal for donations for Covid-19 relief last year had yielded ₹119 crores in the Arogya Nidhi bank account set up for this purpose by the state government.“All of that amount would be used to procure vaccines. On top of that, I will hand over ₹50 crore from the CM’s Relief Fund to the health department to buy vaccines,” the chief minister said.The chief minister said the state government has vaccinated over 3.5 million people till now. The state has the capacity to vaccinate nearly 100,000 people daily, but because of the scarcity of vaccines, the government is vaccinating only 50,000 people daily. But vaccines will be more easily available in coming months Sarma asked the public to send their contributions to the Arogya Nidhi bank account set up last year to collect funds for Covid19 relief or even the CM Relief Fund.He said Reliance Industries Limited has contributed ₹15 crore for Assam’s vaccination fund and several other organisations have pledged to donate a day’s salary of their employees or substantial sums for the initiative. “We hope to collect nearly ₹100 cr from the campaign. The government’s commitment to provide free vaccines for all still stands and irrespective of how much funds we are able to generate from the public, our vaccination drive will continue unabated,” said Sarma. On Wednesday, Assam recorded 6,143 new cases and 89 deaths. At present, the state has nearly 48,000 active Covid19 cases. The chief minister said while Assam’s Covid-19 situation hasn’t seen a significant improvement - the state still has 48,000 active Covid-19 cases and recorded 6,143 new cases on Wednesday - he saw the decline in the positive rate from 9% to 6% as a good sign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/himanta-biswa-sarma-floats-crowdfunding-campaign-to-help-keep-free-vaccine-pledge-101621523804638.html
20-05-2021||India||Shortage of black fungus drug Amphotericin B to be resolved soon, says Centre||The shortage of Amphotericin B, the drug required to treat mucormycosis, will be resolved soon as the government has given new drug approval to five more companies to produce this drug, Union minister of state for chemicals and fertilisers Mansukh Mandaviya said on Thursday. "The existing pharma companies have already started ramping up the production. Indian Companies have also placed orders for importing 6 lakh vials of Amphotericin B. We are leaving no stone unturned to smoothen the situation," the minister tweeted as the Centre asked all states and Union territories to make black fungus or mucormycosis a notifiable disease under the Epidemic Act.Mucormycosis: A rare infection being found commonly in Covid patientsAmid the raging second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, the emergence of mucormycosis, a fungal infection which can affect the eyes and the brain, has thrown a bigger challenge to states as there has been a sudden rise in the number of cases.At Delhi's AIIMS, the number of mucormycosis cases has surpassed the three-digit mark, head of the neurology department Prof MV Padma Srivastava said on Wednesday.Make Mucormycosis a notifiable disease under epidemic act, urges CentreAs PM Modi interacted with the health ministers of several states on Thursday, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope told him that at present black fungus the major concern for Maharashtra as the state is gradually recovering from the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic with a steady decline in the positivity. But 90 people have died of mucormycosis in the state, Tope has said. The Delhi government too is setting up dedicated centres for the treatment of black fungus at three government hospitals.Watch: How to tackle Black Fungus? Dr Faheem Younus answersWhy mucormycosis is being considered as a bigger threat than Covid-19 nowWhile for the past year, states prepared their healthcare infrastructure to treat Covid-19, the emergence of mucormycosis caught many states unawares as states have been focussing on ramping up Covid-19 treatment so far. Mucormycosis is also not a new infection as experts have said that this infection was reported after 2003's SARS outbreak too. But this time the outbreak has been rapid and Covid-19 treatment is being partially blamed for the surge. use of steroids in Covid-19 cases, when not necessary, is weakening the immune system of the patients, while an unchecked blood sugar level is worsening the situation, experts have said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shortage-of-black-fungus-drug-amphotericin-b-to-be-resolved-soon-says-minister-101621520914634.html
20-05-2021||India||After black fungus, reports of white fungus infections surface. What we know so far||Mucormycosis or black fungus cases in India are on a massive surge. After coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the biggest healthcare concern is the fungal infection for India presently. The Central government on Thursday urged the states and Union territories (UTs) to make black fungus a notifiable disease under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. A notifiable disease requires the medical practitioners to notify the government about the disease in a prescribed format within three days or 24 hours, in case of urgency.Also read: Delhi HC asks Centre for affidavit on Amphotericin-B, an anti-black fungus drugHowever, a new threat is an emerging white fungus that is concerning medical experts. Though there has been no official confirmation about such cases, various media reports claimed Bihar has reported around four cases of white fungus, which according to the health experts is more dangerous than Mucormycosis. Director general of the Indian Council of Medical Research, Dr Balram Bhargava on Thursday said the colour of the fungus depends on its growth. Fungal infections are common when there is dampness, Dr Bhargava said, without specifically mentioning anything about white fungus.All what has been reported about white fungusWhite fungus is being suggested to be more dangerous than black fungus by health experts as it can affect other parts of the body like skin, stomach, kidney, brain, private parts and mouth besides lungs, according to the reports.Not much evidence has been found of the white fungus spreading to other states, but experts feel that it can be as virulent as the virus, as per the reports. The mortality rate of white fungus is currently unknown.The patients infected with white fungus showed Covid-like symptoms, however, were tested negative. The medical experts believe an HRCT scan may be required to trace the fungal infection, as the reports claimed.Also read: Cases of black fungus on the rise in Andhra PradeshAn HRCT scan is an additional diagnosis done in patients suffering from severe Covid-19.Much like Covid-19 and black fungus, people with low immunity, pre-existing medical issues, people with diabetes and people on or using steroids are at a high risk of contracting the infection, according to the reports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-black-fungus-reports-of-white-fungus-infections-surface-what-we-know-so-far-101621515569667.html
20-05-2021||India||ULFA-I to release abducted ONGC employee after Himanta Biswa Sarma’s appeal||Guwahati: Banned United Liberation Front of Asom-Independent (ULFA-I) on Thursday said it will release Ritul Saikia, an employee of Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) abducted from Assam last month, within the next four days.The outfit’s move came minutes after Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma made an appeal at a Press conference to ULFA-I chief Paresh Baruah. “Saikia’s parents, his wife and infant son are very distressed since his abduction. As an Assamese, it is my humble request to Paresh Baruah to release him at the earliest,” Sarma said.ULFA-I chief responded minutes later.“I heard the CM’s responsible appeal on TV and in response, ULFA-I assured the release of Saikia in a matter of days. It should take 3-4 days for him to be reunited with his family,” Baruah told NEWSLIVE, an Assamese news channel, over phone from an undisclosed location.Saikia, a junior engineer assistant, was abducted along with two colleagues, Mohini Mohan Gogoi (junior engineer assistant) and Alakesh Saikia (junior technician), from ONGC’s workover rig site in Sivasagar district of Assam on April 21.Alakesh Saikia and Mohini Mohan Gogoi were rescued three days later by security forces from Nagaland, close to the Indo-Myanmar border, in a joint operation.On Tuesday, Baruah had confirmed that Saikia was still in the outfit’s custody and was safe.Himanta Biswa Sarma has said Saikia was being kept at a location in Myanmar close to the border with India.Chief minister Sarma said he considers reports of ULFA-I chief’s promise as a positive step. “But I will be able to give a formal response only after I hear what Baruah has said,” he said.Soon after the abduction, ULFA-I had issued a seven-point list of demands to three major oil companies, ONGC, Oil India Limited and Indian Oil Corporation Limited that included a demand for 95% quota in jobs for indigenous residents of Assam.The chief minister appeared to respond to this demand at his Press conference on Thursday, underlining that people often forget how Assam benefited due to the petroleum companies. The state earns ₹18,000 crore from the oil sector annually and anyone who wants the sector to contribute more to Assam should hold discussions with the state government which can raise it with the Centre. “As the CM, it will be my government’s task to ensure that these companies do more for the state in coming years,” he added.“If this sector is targeted, our state’s economic backbone will be broken,” said Sarma.The banned insurgent last week announced a three-month unilateral ceasefire and suspension of all operations citing the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ulfai-to-released-abducted-ongc-employee-after-himanta-biswa-sarma-s-appeal-101621519424716.html
20-05-2021||India||'406 people can be infected in a month by 1 person if...': Centre on Covid-appropriate behaviour||If social distancing is not properly maintained, then one individual carrying the SARS-CoV-2 virus can infect about 406 people in a month, joint secretary of the Union health ministry Lav Agarwal said on Thursday during the press briefing of the health ministry. On the contrary, if social distancing is maintained by 75 per cent, the same person can infect around two to three people in a month, the secretary said citing studies.The numbers, cited by the ministry, is not new as this was the finding of a recent ICMR study. The current RO or R Naught for the infection is between 1.5 and 4. Taking this number as 2.5, it has been calculated that one person can infect 406 people in 30 days. R Naught is a term used to show how contagious the virus is.45 lakh Covid tests per day by June end, 3 more self-test home kits on pipeline: ICMRSocial distancing, however, is not enough if people are not wearing masks properly as a guideline published by the office of the principal scientific adviser said droplets from an infected person can be carried in the air up to 10 metres through aerosols and infect another person at a distance if that both are not wearing masks. Hence, wearing masks properly, not covering only the mouth or keeping it in the chin, is of equal importance, the ministry reminded again.So is keeping a distance of 10 meters advisable now? Replying to this question, the Indian Council of Medical Research director-general Dr Balram Bhargava said more and more things about this virus and its transmission are emerging every day. "First, it was found that the virus transmits through droplets. Now it has been found that there are microdroplets that can remain suspended in the air for at least 2-3 hours. Some studies have pointed out that microdroplets can remain in the air for 3 hours. For droplets, we recommend a distance of six feet. For micro-droplets, we recommend well ventilation so that these can be dispersed," Dr Bhargava said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/406-can-be-infected-in-a-month-if-centre-on-covid-appropriate-behaviour-101621515431132.html
20-05-2021||India||Telangana declares black fungus a notifiable disease after Centre's nudge||The Telangana government on Thursday declared Mucormycosis, commonly known as the balck fungus, a notifiable disease under the Epidemic Diseases Act 1897. The move came soon after the Union health ministry sent a directive to the states and the Union territories earlier in the day on the fungal infection.A notifiable disease is a disease that needs to be notified by medical practitioners to the government in a prescribed format within three days or in case of urgency, within 24 hours.ALSO READ: What is Mucormycosis and how deadly is it? Know everything about Black FungusAccording to the notification, all government-run and private healthcare facilities will be required to follow the guidelines for screening, diagnosis and management of Mucormycosis as issued by the Centre and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The state health department also made the failure to report such cases of Mucormycosis a punishable offence.Meanwhile, state minister and TRS president K T Rama Rao took to Twitter to share a format and said that anyone requiring medicines for black fungus can send an send an official email request to the director of medical education and the superintendent of the ENT hospital at the Gandhi General Hospital, which has been designated as the nodal centre for the treatment of the condition.To all those who’ve been seeking medicines for Black Fungus/Mucormycosis, please send an email to dme@telangana.Gov.in and ent-mcrm@telangana.Gov.in in the format given below 👇You can also send the same via Twitter to @DMETELANGANA with a copy to @KTRoffice so we can follow up pic.twitter.com/e4hYHln7tJOnce the disease has been made notifiable, failure to report it is treated as a criminal offence. Black fungus is a condition seen in some patients who have recovered from coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The disease can lead to blackening or discoloration over the nose, blurred or double vision, chest pain, breathing difficulties and coughing of blood.Making a disease notifiable helps governments monitor the geographical spread of the disease and devise containment strategies. In case of highly infectious disease, a prompt notification often allows for close surveillance of the disease and gives authorities time and data to plan, monitor and prevent further spread of the disease.The black fungus is caused by the steroid administered in the treatment of Covid-19 infection.ALSO READ: Misuse of steroids major cause behind mucormycosis infection: AIIMS chiefIn the past, the Centre had declared several diseases such as AIDS, cholera, dengue, tuberculosis etc., as notifiable diseases. Although the total number of black fungus cases in the state could not be immediately verified by the Hindustan Times, according to local media the cases of the disease are being reported from Adilabad, Khammam and Rajanna Sircilla districts.Meanwhile, Andhra Pradesh has recorded cases of Mucormycosis from Visakhapatnam, Srikakulam, Guntur, West Godavari and Kurnool districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-declares-black-fungus-a-notifiable-disease-after-centre-s-nudge-101621514441511.html
20-05-2021||India||Covid-19: Half of the Indian population do not wear mask, says govt||Amid the ravaging second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the Union health ministry on Thursday revealed that around half of the population does not wear a mask. Only 14 per cent of the people wear the mask correctly, the ministry said citing a study conducted in 25 cities, which was reported by the media earlier.The ministry said that of half the population who wear a mask, 64 per cent of them cover the mouth but not nose, 20 per cent of them wear it on the chin, two per cent have the mask on the neck and only 14 per cent wear it correctly covering the nose, mouth, chin and with a clip on the nose.Also read: Covid self-testing kit to be available in market by end of next week"Half of India isn't wearing a mask! Around 50% Indians do not wear a #Mask today, " the ministry said.According to a study, 50% of people in India do not wear a mask. Of the 50% who wear masks, only 14% people wear the mask correctly- Joint Secretary, @MoHFW_INDIA #IndiaFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/kvIriV3hA2This comes after the government issued an advisory earlier in the day to break the chain of transmission. In a document titled 'Stop the Transmission, Crush the Pandemic,' the government issued guidelines on how to contain the spread of the virus as it said aerosols can be carried in the air up to a distance of 10 meters.The SARS-CoV-2 virus transmits majorly through aerosol and droplets, which makes wearing a mask very important to curtail its spread. "The virus is released in the saliva and nasal discharge of an infected person through exhalation, talking, speaking, singing, laughing, coughing, and sneezing etc," the document read.As per the advisory, the mask should fit snugly on the face leaving no air gaps around the nose and chin, cloth masks should be washed and sun-dried every day.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19The government highly recommended 'double masking' to prevent transmission. For double masking, one should wear a surgical mask and another tight-fitting cloth mask over it. In case the surgical mask is not available then one is recommended to wear two cotton masks together."Ideally the surgical mask should be used only once, but when pairing, you can use it up to 5 times by leaving it in a dry place for 7 days after one use (ideally give it some sun exposure) and then reuse as a double layer," the government advised, adding that the surgical masks should never be washed.India on Thursday reported 276,110 new Covid-19 infections, and a drop in daily deaths as 3,874 people succumbed to the virus in the last 24 hours, according to the official data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-half-the-indian-population-do-not-wear-mask-says-govt-101621512213896.html
20-05-2021||India||Meeting with PM casual, ‘sat like puppets’ and were not allowed to speak: Mamata||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday described Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s meeting with chief ministers and district magistrates of 10 states as “casual and super flop” and said they “sat like puppets” and “none was allowed to say a single word”.“We felt insulted. Only four to five district magistrates, mostly from BJP [Bharatiya Janata Party]-ruled states, were allowed to speak. The meeting ended with Prime Minister’s speech in which he claimed that Covid-19 cases were going down,” said Banerjee. She claimed there was no discussion on the supply of vaccines, medicines, and oxygen or the black fungus, which has emerged as one of the major Covid-19 complications.BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari hit out at Banerjee over her comments and said she has once again shown “her total disinterest” in administration while pointing out the meeting was convened to discuss grassroots level practices to fight the pandemic. “True to her style, she has politicised a meeting Hon’ble PM @narendramodi held with District Officials, where grassroots level practices to fight Covid-19 were being discussed,” tweeted Adhikari, who is also the leader of Opposition in West Bengal assembly. He added five of the seven district officials, who spoke at the meeting belonged to non-BJP ruled states--Chhattisgarh, Kerala, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, and Andhra Pradesh.In his address, Modi said India’s battle against Covid-19 requires continuous change and up-gradation of plans and innovations while cautioning it will not be over if the virus remains even in a small area of the country. He said there is more concern now about young people and children.Also Read | Mamata writes to PM Modi for Covid-19 vaccines for state, central govt employeesModi said the vaccine supplies would be strengthened and emphasised the need to save the villages as he sought more ideas and new practices to tackle the pandemic. He described the virus as “dhurt bahurupiya”, while referring to its mutations. “Every phase of the pandemic has taught us that constant change, up-gradation, and constant innovation is key to fight the pandemic. This virus is famous for changing itself through mutations. It is like a bahurupia and it is clever as well. So, our strategies and plans should also be dynamic,” he said.Modi commended the Union health ministry’s plan of providing vaccine stocks that will last 15 days and called for a need for a vaccination calendar. He added more transparency in the supply of vaccines will make the inoculation campaign easier.In his earlier meeting with district administrators on Tuesday, Modi called them the “field commanders” in the fight against the pandemic and spoke about their determination when they cleared the civil services exams. “You solved problems with your own abilities. Today, you are facing the toughest test and now, you are using your abilities to solve even the smallest problems of your district.”Modi said sensitivity and patience were essential in this battle. He called earning people’s trust the key to success. Modi said the field experience was more valuable than intellectual debate. As infections have been spreading in smaller cities and rural areas, Modi urged the district administrators to reach out to the people and convince them to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour to curb the spread. “Your presence, your speeches can remove fear among people.”Modi urged the magistrates to find unique solutions to their local problems and to do a separate analysis of the spread of the virus in tier two and three cities. He expressed confidence that a solution to check the virus from spreading in the rural areas can be found. “My experience says that if you convey the right things at the right time, people will follow religiously.”Also Read | Sonia Gandhi writes to PM, seeks free education for kids orphaned by CovidAfter the meeting, Banerjee in Kolkata referred to black fungus and said it emerged from Surat in Gujarat and that Rajasthan has already declared it as an epidemic. She added four cases of the disease have been detected in West Bengal and blamed the Centre for failing to supply medicines to treat it. Banerjee said the Centre was not providing vaccines to her state and as a result, vaccination has slowed down in West Bengal.Banerjee separately wrote to Modi demanding more vaccines. “Earlier we had demanded three crore [30 million] vaccines. Now we are demanding 8.6 crore [over 86 million] doses so that we can vaccinate all citizens. If we get the vaccines, we can vaccinate every citizen within three months. But if we adopt his [Modi] formula it may take 10 years to vaccinate all,” she said.Banerjee expressed doubts over the gap prescribed between two doses of Covid-19 vaccines. She questioned whether the gap was being increased to cover up for the scarcity of vaccines. “We are running a state. But Delhi’s shahenshah [emperor] is not even looking at us and just saying sab thik hai [everything is fine]. When representatives of Uttar Pradesh spoke at the meeting, the Prime Minister said ‘bahut badiya chal raha hai [it is going very well]’, without questioning why corpses were being dumped into the river,” she said.Banerjee was referring to corpses fished out the Ganga in Bihar’s Buxar district and Ghazipur in neighbouring Uttar Pradesh. The recovery of the bodies triggered probes in both states and speculation that they belonged to Covid patients. More dead bodies were later found in Uttar Pradesh’s Unnao.Banerjee also lashed out at the BJP-led Central government over the arrest of her two cabinet ministers, including Firhad Hakim who was heading the Covid-19 task force, and one legislator. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) arrested them on charges of bribery on Monday in connection with the 2016 Narada sting operation. They are now in judicial custody.“I am not commenting on the case as it is sub-judice. Kolkata’s [outgoing] mayor [Hakim] used to work in the field round the clock. Now we have to do the job in another way. They [BJP-led Centre] can do vendetta politics [even] during the time of Covid-19,” said Banerjee.Banerjee returned to power in the state this month after one of the most keenly contested elections in which Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah led the BJP from the front. Her Trinamool Congress (TMC) has linked the arrested in the Narda case to BJP’s political vendetta driven by its loss of the assembly polls.The CBI on Wednesday named Banerjee, law minister Moloy Ghatak, and lawmaker Kalyan Banerjee as respondents in its plea to transfer the Narada case out of the state. It claimed violent protests orchestrated by the TMC against the arrests have hampered its probe and intimidated lower courts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meeting-with-pm-casual-sat-like-puppets-and-were-not-allowed-to-speakmamata-101621514384024.html
20-05-2021||India||Local staff member of New Zealand mission dies after contracting Covid-19||A long-serving Indian employee of the New Zealand high commission in New Delhi died this week after contracting Covid-19, weeks after the mission made an urgent appeal on Twitter for oxygen for his treatment. The unnamed Indian national’s death was confirmed by New Zealand foreign minister Nanaia Mahuta, who said she was “deeply saddened” to learn of his passing. “The deceased joined the high commission in 1986 during the time that Sir Edmund Hillary was our high commissioner to India, and New Zealand truly values the support he gave to our country,” she said. “New Zealand truly values the support, the work that he gave to subsequent heads of mission, New Zealand staff and our country,” she told reporters. She added the staff member had died in an Indian hospital on May 16. Mahuta also confirmed to the media that an appeal for oxygen by the high commission on Twitter on May 2 was for the same staff member. “While they used the wrong channels, they did as much as they could to ensure that his care could be provided for...The intent was legitimate, which was to secure oxygen for this person,” she said. Six more local staff members of the New Zealand mission were infected by the Coronavirus, though three of them subsequently tested negative. Also Read | A broken polity, a ghost StateThere was no immediate word from Indian officials on the development.The New Zealand high commission had apologised for breaching diplomatic protocol through its tweet and deleted it after a war of words broke out between the government and the opposition Congress party over the supply of oxygen to foreign missions by the Youth Congress. The youth wing of the Congress has played a key role in responding to urgent requests for medical equipment and supplies. The mission had tagged the Youth Congress and its president BV Srinivas in the deleted tweet, which said: “Could you please help with oxygen cylinder urgently at the New Zealand High Commission? Thank you.” In a subsequent tweet, the mission said: “We are trying all sources to arrange for oxygen cylinders urgently and our appeal has unfortunately been misinterpreted, for which we are sorry.” External affairs minister S Jaishankar had accused the Congress of indulging in “cheap publicity” and the foreign ministry had said that foreign missions should not “hoard essential supplies, including oxygen”. At the time, New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern had said the appeal on Twitter for oxygen was inappropriate and that the mission should have used “normal channels and protocols”. But she also acknowledged that oxygen was needed for a “very unwell” Indian staff member and ruled out disciplinary action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/local-staff-member-of-new-zealand-mission-dies-after-contracting-covid19-101621513783880.html
20-05-2021||India||Andhra finance minister presents annual budget worth ₹2.29 lakh cr||Andhra Pradesh finance minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy on Thursday presented the state’s annual budget for the year 2021-22 with an outlay of ₹2,29,779 crore and a focus on welfare, health, agriculture and education.“Andhra Pradesh currently ranks 3rd at the national level across 17 strategic development goals. It shall be our endeavour to be at the forefront of the achievement of the SDGs at the national level. To invest in the future of our citizens and empower them to realise their true potential shall continue to be the constant endeavour of our government,” the finance minister said.The finance minister estimated a revenue expenditure of ₹1,82,196.54 crore and capital expenditure including loan repayments and other capital disbursements estimated at around ₹47,582.73 crore.The revenue deficit was projected at around ₹5,000.05 crore which would be around 0.47 per cent of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) and the fiscal deficit at around ₹37,029.79 crore, which will be around 3.49% of the GSDP.The presentation of the budget, which is generally done in March, was delayed by two months, as the YS Jagan Mohan Reddy deferred the budget session on account of elections to urban local bodies and by-elections to Tirupati parliamentary constituency.Since the passage of the budget and the appropriation bill would be delayed, the state government had to go in for the ordinance route on March 31 to adopt the vote-on-account budget for ₹70,994.98 crore for the first three months of the financial year 2021-22, beginning on April 1.Stating that building effective social infrastructure is imperative for registering consistent progress in strategic development goals, Reddy said “Nava Ratnalu” (nine jewels) programme taken up by the chief minister was devised to prioritise the welfare of all sections of people, particularly the SCs, STs, BCs, EBCs and minorities.He said an amount of ₹28,237 crore had been allocated for the weaker sections in the current budget, while the economically backward sections were allocated ₹5,478 crore, which is an increase of eight per cent over the previous year. Kapus were allocated ₹3,306 crore, Brahmins ₹359 crore, SC sub-plan ₹17,403 crore, ST sub-plan ₹6,131 crore, minorities ₹3,840 crore, child welfare ₹16,748 crore and women development ₹47,283 crore.The finance minister also made a substantial allocation of ₹13,830 crore for the health sector, including ₹2,258 crore under Dr YSR Aarogyasri scheme to provide cashless treatment to poor and needy patients free of cost in government and private network hospitals and ₹1,538.55 crore under Nadu-Nedu scheme to improve the health infrastructure.The agriculture sector was allocated ₹11,210 crore and education got a maximum of ₹24,624 crore. An amount of ₹5,661 crore was allocated for housing and infrastructure development and ₹1,000 crore for industrial incentives.Reddy also announced the enhancement of funds for the Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) scheme in various sectors. Some of the major allocations made under the DBT schemes are: ₹17,000 crore to YSE Pension Kanuka, ₹3,845 crore to YSR Rythu Bharosa, ₹2,500 crore to Jagananna Vidya Deevena, ₹1,802 crore to YSR Fasal Bima Yojana, ₹1112 crore to zero interest loans for DWCRA groups and ₹500 crore to farmers, among others.While industrial and infrastructure development was allocated ₹3,673 crore, roads and buildings got ₹7,394 crore, energy sector ₹6,637 crore, municipalities and urban development ₹8,727 crore and irrigation ₹13,237 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-finance-minister-presents-annual-budget-worth-rs-2-29-lakh-cr-101621512043641.html
20-05-2021||India||45 lakh Covid tests per day by June end, 3 more self-test home kits on pipeline: ICMR||The Centre is aiming to increase the per-day number of Covid-19 tests to 45 lakh by the end of June, Dr Balram Bhargava, the director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research said on Thursday, adding that the self-test home kits will also contribute to this process as another three kits are likely to get the approval soon.As early testing, followed by immediate isolation in case of a positive test, is the key to control the transmission, the ICMR is targetting to increase the number of daily tests in the country. As of now, the health infrastructure has the capacity of conducting around 12-13 lakh RTPCR tests and 17 lakh rapid antigen tests per day. Though the workforce of testing laboratories has been hit by the infection, labs are working round the clock to meet the increased testing demand, Dr Bhargava said.Watch: Now, rapid Covid-19 testing at home with CoviSelf: All you need to knowSonia Gandhi writes to PM, seeks free education for kids orphaned by CovidExplaining the continuous increase in the number of tests, Dr Bhargava said if the case positivity rates of April and May are compared, then there has been a sharp fall as between May 13 and May 19, the weekly positivity rate of Covid-19 was 15 per cent. But this decline is being reported despite a sharp increase in the number of tests. From about eight lakh tests per day in February, March, India reported more than 20 lakh tests on May 18 and 19, the ICMR chief said adding that by the end of this month, there will be 25 lakh tests every day and 45 lakh tests by the end of June. "Unless the positivity rate comes down to 5 per cent, the testing number will go up," he said.On doctors already prescribing DRDO's 2-DG for Covid-19 treatment, Dr Bhargava said it can be written on prescriptions as this is not a new drug. "It is an old drug meant for cancer treatment. Since this is a repurposed drug, it can be written," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/45-lakh-covid-tests-per-day-by-june-end-3-more-home-kits-on-pipeline-101621509438984.html
20-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM Modi's Covid-19 meeting 'super flop', says Mamata Banerjee and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Modi's Covid-19 meeting 'super flop', feel humiliated: Mamata BanerjeeWest Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday lashed out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi over a meeting to discuss the Covid-19 situation. Terming the meeting a "superflop," Banerjee said that chief ministers were not allowed to speak in the meeting which was also attended by 54 district magistrates of 10 states with high Covid-19 caseload. Read moreSonia Gandhi writes to PM, seeks free education for kids orphaned by CovidCongress interim chief Sonia Gandhi on Thursday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to provide free education to children who have lost either both the parents or the earning parent to Covid-19. Read moreReduced to a rubber stamp, says Srinagar DDC chairman Aftab MalikAftab Malik, the Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party leader and chairman of Srinagar’s district development council (DDC), on Thursday complained that they had been reduced to “rubber stamps” and asked the government to involve the elected representatives in the battle against the coronavirus pandemic. Read more'Infection transmission risk is much lower in outdoor areas': Key points from govt advisory on Covid-19Principal scientific adviser to the government of India on Thursday released a guideline which listed things to follow in order to check the spread of the raging Covid-19 pandemic which has claimed more than 287,000 lives in the country so far. Read moreHe just wanted to be captain, so he could control things: Chappell says Ganguly didn't 'want to work hard' as playerOne of the most documented times in Indian cricket has been the stint of former Australia skipper Greg Chappell as Team India head coach. He came in with much fanfare due to his reputation in cricket but it soon unravelled. Read moreKangana Ranaut leaves for Manali after Covid-19 recovery, asks paparazzi 'kis kis ko hogaya corona?'Actor Kangana Ranaut was seen at the Mumbai airport on Thursday morning. She is headed back to her home in Manali after recovering from Covid-19 earlier this week. Read moreNeha Kakkar in crop top and skirt set dances with Rohanpreet in adorable videoNeha Kakkar has lately been donning a lot of crop tops and skirts and might we add she has been nailing the style. Most of her casual day-out looks consist of either a cord set or a beautiful-hue top with a flattering skirt. Read morePandemic packs a punch, ICRA predicts Indian auto industry to feel the painMost of the hopes of a steady recovery in the Indian automotive sector that was witnessed in the aftermath of a national lockdown last year may have been dented a big blow by the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. Read moreWatch | ‘Strategy to deal with Covid should be dynamic, innovative’: PM Modi||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-modi-s-covid-19-meeting-super-flop-says-mamata-banerjee-and-all-the-latest-news-101621508526850.html
20-05-2021||India||Cases of black fungus on the rise in Andhra Pradesh||Andhra Pradesh is reporting a rising cases of Mucormycosis, or black fungus, at a time when the second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases are already ravaging the state. As many as 200 cases of Mucormycosis have been detected in districts as such Nellore, Krishna, West Godavari, Visakhapatnam, Chitoor and Anantapur. A private hospital in Guntur has recorded 50 cases of black fungus.READ MORE: Make Mucormycosis a notifiable disease under epidemic act, urges CentreThe number of cases has risen to hundreds with the infection showing up among people who have recovered from Covid-19. Black fungus is most commonly seen in people with diabetes. People have been queuing up at hospitals with symptoms such as red eyes and swollen cheeks.However, some doctors predict that this could likely be the side effects of Covid-19 medication. The infection is rare but not new and caused by exposure to mucor moulds found in soil, plants, manure, and decaying fruits and vegetables.ALSO READ: What is Mucormycosis and how deadly is it? Know everything about Black FungusDoctors pointed out that the steroids being prescribed for Covid-19 patients to strengthen their respiratory system are affecting the good bacteria in the body, making them vulnerable to the black fungal infection.Presently, 80% of the Covid-19 patients are being given steroids, which could lead to black fungus infection. This is more common among those with diabetes whose system weakens much more than those without the condition after a Covid-19 attack. Doctors are specifically advising diabetics to be extra cautious and minimise the use of anti-viral drugs.Meanwhile, the Centre is examining ways to procure Amphotericin-B, an anti-fungal medication which can help stop the spread of black fungus in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cases-of-black-fungus-on-the-rise-in-andhra-pradesh-101621508136213.html
20-05-2021||India||Cyclone Tauktae maintained intensity even after landfall, affected hit 9 states||Tauktae is among the few cyclones that didn’t lose steam even after landfall. On May 17 evening, Tauktae made landfall in Gujarat but it maintained its intensity till late May 18 evening, bringing rain over many parts of Gujarat and Rajasthan.Then, as a depression over southeast Rajasthan it interacted with a western disturbance over the western Himalayan region, bringing widespread and long spells of rain over the entire northwest India.Extremely severe cyclonic ttorm, Tauktae, which started its journey as a depression over Lakshadweep area on May 14, degenerated into a low-pressure area only on Thursday over east Rajasthan. During its lifetime, Tauktae impacted Kerala, Karnataka, Goa, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Haryana, Uttarakhand, and Delhi.Delhi received the highest-ever rainfall of 119.3 mm in May for the first time since 1951, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Thursday.“Tauktae has maintained energy...It did not degenerate which is uncommon. Very severe cyclone Vayu, which also developed over Arabian Sea in 2019, had a long life over the ocean. It formed on May 10 and sustained till May 18. What is unique about Tauktae that is it was a cyclonic storm over land for more than a day,” said Sunitha Devi, in charge, cyclones, at IMD.Also Read | ‘No option but to jump into the sea’: Survivors recount harrowing escape“Tauktae sustained as a cyclone for 24 hours over Gujarat for a long time even after landfall and then it started interacting with a western disturbance which was affecting the western Himalayan region. It was already an extremely severe storm. The two systems supported each other. Even now, its remnants haven’t degenerated. Something similar had happened during the Uttarakhand floods of 2013. A low-pressure area had formed over Bay of Bengal which was over west Uttar Pradesh and started interacting with mid latitude westerlies and then floods started,” explained M Mohapatra, director general, IMD.“I don’t know if we should call this long life of Tauktae rare but this can happen whenever a tropical system interacts with westerlies. The good thing is the showers over Delhi were continuous and not a downpour in a couple of hours. So there has been some run-off. In fact, ground water aquifers have recharged as this is a dry season,” Mohapatra added.Experts said the cyclone’s long life over land could be because of the intensity it had already gained over ocean. “This might be due to two reasons. One, the cyclone was of very severe intensity when it had landfall and had already acquired its supply of heat and moisture from the Arabian Sea. Second, north India might have been humid (and warm since it’s summer) considering the fact that there was an unusual amount of rainfall prior to the cyclone itself. These are possibilities and need in-depth research to point out the reasons,” said Matthew Roxy Koll, a climate scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology.“Another reason is that the upper-level winds are eastward. So that helped the cyclone and the rains to move further eastward,” he added.Meanwhile, southwest monsoon is very likely to advance over south Andaman Sea and adjoining southeast Bay of Bengal around May 21, one day in advance in association with the strengthening and deepening of southwesterly winds over the region.A low-pressure area is very likely to form over north Andaman Sea and adjoining eastcentral Bay of Bengal around May 22. It is very likely to intensify into a Cyclonic storm Yaas by May 24. It would move northwestwards and reach near Odisha- West Bengal coasts around May 26 morning.“We cannot rule out Amphan-like intensification. The only good thing is that models as of now are showing that the system is moving very fast over the ocean. Its intensification will be restricted if its time over the sea is less. But if there is slow movement of the cyclone, it can intensify to very severe or higher category,” Sunitha Devi said on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tauktae-maintained-intensity-even-after-landfall-affected-hit-nine-states-101621509103481.html
20-05-2021||India||Reduced to a rubber stamp, says Srinagar DDC chairman Aftab Malik||Aftab Malik, the Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party leader and chairman of Srinagar’s district development council (DDC), on Thursday complained that they had been reduced to “rubber stamps” and asked the government to involve the elected representatives in the battle against the coronavirus pandemic.Malik was elected to the 14-member council in Srinagar, one of the 20 councils set up as the third tier of the panchayati raj system in the union territory. The eight-phase election to the DDCs in November-December 2020 was described as a “new chapter” in Jammu and Kashmir’s history. Aftab Malik said it was not even close.“In the last five months, neither I nor my members have been able to do a single developmental work. I and my members feel that we are just mere rubber stamps,” Aftab Malik said, complaining that he was mostly confined to a room at Srinagar’s circuit house, his new home due to security considerations.“Even the people who came out to vote for me or my DDC members last year feel we can’t do anything for them, which hurts us,” said Malik.Malik said Srinagar was reporting the maximum number of Covid-19 cases and deaths in Jammu and Kashmir, but neither he or his DDC members were involved in the fight against Covid-19. On Wednesday evening, Srinagar had 7,328 active Covid cases and reported a total of 709 deaths.“The officials are doing everything of their own and don’t feel that representatives of the people need to be involved… nobody asks us (for our views) or bothers to involve us,” he said, adding that the DDC had been left to fend for themselves and struggle to make payments even for fuel or the circuit house.Tariq Ahmad, director in the rural development department, said it was wrong to say that the DDCs weren’t involved and panchayati raj institutions are closely involved in the fight against Covid at the panchayat levels.The newly-elected district development councils did get off to a rocky start when the freshly-elected members across party lines boycotted a training programme organised by the government to demand what they called a “dignified monthly honorarium” and a better status in the warrant of precedence.In April, the government did make changes to the warrant of precedence to place the DDC chairman on par with ministers of state. But Malik said it didn’t bring about any real difference on the ground.“Since the Covid outbreak (second wave), I was called for just one meeting but it was a last-minute invitation. So I declined to attend,” he said.The DDC chairman, who has been assigned three security guards, said he hardly went to his designated office since it was about 20 km from Srinagar city; “too far for other members of the council to travel”.Malik said his only consolation is that Deputy Commissioner Srinagar picks his phone.The rural development department, which is responsible for DDCs, “is our parent department but the officials never bother to inform us where the money for developmental projects is.”Rural development department’s Tariq Ahmad said funds for the district development councils come from the capital expenditure budget which is prepared by respective deputy commissioners. “Every council is supposed to get ₹10 crore through CAPEX budget. I am not aware why the Srinagar DDC hasn’t got the money released yet.”“Even the new setups for Covid which will come up in every panchayat will get the money from the panchayat funds only,” he said, a reference to Lt Governor Manoj Sinha’s direction to set up five Covid beds including one with oxygen in every panchayat.“Directed DCs & Health Department to ensure 5-bedded Covid Care Centre in every Panchayat of J&K as many households may not have the option for isolation of Covid positive patients in their own residence. Each Centre to have One Oxygen-Supported Bed for immediate patient care,” Sinha’s office said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reduced-to-a-rubber-stamp-says-srinagar-ddc-chairman-aftab-malik-101621506825159.html
20-05-2021||India||Received 40,300 govt requests for user data from India: Facebook report||Social media giant Facebook said it has received 40,300 requests from the Indian government for user data in the second half of 2020. This was 13.3 per cent higher from the January-June 2020 period when India had made 35,560 total requests, according to the Facebook's latest Transparency Report.The US-based company restricted access to 878 items in India during the second half of 2020 in response to directions from the IT Ministry for violating Section 69A of the Information Technology Act, 2000, including content against security of the state and public order. According to the report, India made 40,300 total requests in the July-December 2020 period, of which 37,865 were legal process requests and 2,435 were emergency disclosure requests. The number of total requests made by India ranked second to the US, which had made 61,262 requests during the July-December 2020 period. Globally, government requests for user data increased by about 10 per cent to 191,013 in the second half of 2020 from 173,592 in the first half of 2020. Information related to 62,754 users/accounts were requested in India, and some data was produced for 52 per cent of the requests. “Facebook responds to government requests for data in accordance with applicable law and our terms of service. Each and every request we receive is carefully reviewed for legal sufficiency and we may reject or require greater specificity on requests that appear overly broad or vague,” the report said. Facebook said that during the July - December 2020 period, it had “restricted access in India to 878 items in response to directions from the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology for violating Section 69A of the Information Technology Act, 2000, including content against security of the state and public order”. Of these, 10 were restricted temporarily, it added. “We also restricted access to 54 items in compliance with court orders. In response to an order from Justice Alexandre de Moraes of Brazil's Supreme Court related to 12 profiles and Pages of supporters of Brazilian President Bolsonaro, we restricted access globally to this content, including in India,” it added. Facebook noted that while it respects the law in countries where it operates, it “strongly” opposes extraterritorial legal demands such as the one resulting in these restrictions. The social media giant also released its Community Standards Enforcement Report for the first quarter of 2021. As per the Community Standards Enforcement Report, content actioned on adult nudity and sexual activity increased to 31.8 million in first quarter of 2021 from 28.1 million pieces of content in the preceding quarter. The report found that prevalence of hate speech content was between 0.05 per cent and 0.06 per cent of views in the first quarter of 2021, which marks a decrease from the fourth quarter of 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/received-40-300-govt-requests-for-user-data-from-india-facebook-report-101621505028130.html
20-05-2021||India||Pinarayi Vijayan takes oath as Kerala chief minister for 2nd time||CPM veteranPinarayi Vijayan took oath as the chief minister of Kerala for the second consecutive term on Thursday. Governor Arif Mohammad Khan administered the oath in the swearing-in ceremony which the Kerala high court allowed on the condition of only 500 invitees.Vijayan's association with the Communist Paty of India Marxist goes back a long way as the 76-year-old started as a youth leader while he was studying at Government Brennen College.In 1964, he joined the Communist Party, eventually became Kannur district secretary of Kerala Students' Federation (KSF), which became the Students Federation of India (SFI). He was arrested in 1975, during the Emergency. In 2002, he was elected to the politburo.Thiruvananthapuram: 20 ministers of the new Kerala cabinet, including NCP's AK Saseendran, Indian National League's (INL) Ahammad Devarkovil, R Bindu and PA Mohammed Riyas, take oath along with CM Pinarayi Vijayan. pic.twitter.com/Zp5FWSRBjFVijayan's rising popularity in the last year of the pandemic came under scrutiny following the party's decision to drop KK Shailaja — the former health minister — from the cabinet, as it was interpreted as a race of popularity between Vijayan and Shailaja. Commenting on this, Vijayan said it was the party's decision to not include anyone for two consecutive terms. On continuing as the CM for the two consecutive terms, he said, "I am continuing as CM as the party asked me to."Except for the CM face, all ministers of the new cabinet will be fresh faces, a blend of youngsters and veterans, CPI(M) leader AN Shamseer has said.In a departure from Kerala's political tradition in which the state switches between LDF and UDF, the CPM-led Left Democratic Front retained power winning 99 seats against UDF's 41.Vijayan has also been subjected to criticism as his son-in-law Mohammad Riyas is getting a berth in the new cabinet. Apart from Riyas, the new cabinet includes MV Govindan, K Radhakrishnan, KN Balagopal, P Rajeev, VN Vasavan, Saji Cherian, V Sivankutty, Dr R Bindu, Veena George, V Abdul Rahman among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pinarayi-vijayan-takes-oath-as-kerala-chief-minister-for-the-2nd-time-101621505329679.html
20-05-2021||India||'Infection transmission risk is much lower in outdoor areas': Key points from govt advisory on Covid-19||Principal scientific adviser to the government of India on Thursday released a guideline which listed things to follow in order to check the spread of the raging Covid-19 pandemic which has claimed more than 287,000 lives in the country so far.In the advisory, the role of face masks, social distancing and sanitisation was highlighted as crucial to beat Covid-19. It also said that the well-ventilated spaces play a crucial role in diluting the Covid-19 viral load of infected air and help in decreasing the risk of transmission from one infected person to the other.India recorded 276,110 new cases of the Covid-19 in a 24-hour span, the Union health ministry data showed on Thursday morning. The total tally of the viral infection now stands at 25,772,440.Here are the key points from the advisory:1) Aerosols, one of the key transmission modes of the Sars-CoV-2, can travel in the air up to 10 meters. The advisory also stated that the droplets fall within 2 meters from an infected person.2) Even one infected person showing no symptoms can release enough droplets to create a “viral load” that can infect several others.3) Infection transmission risk is much lower in outdoor areas as virus particles get quickly dispersed in the air. Meanwhile, in closed un-ventilated spaces, droplets and aerosols become quickly concentrated and greatly increase the risk of transmission to people in the area.4) Symptoms can take up to two weeks to appear in an infected person, during which time they may continue to transmit the virus to others. Some people never show symptoms and still transmit the virus.5) These virus-laden droplets can survive on non-porous surfaces such as glass, plastic and stainless steel for a fairly long time. Hence the advisory asked for frequent cleaning of high contact point6s such as door handles, light switches, tables, chairs and the floor with disinfectants, like bleach and phenyl. It can remove the virus contamination from surfaces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/infection-transmission-risk-is-much-lower-in-outdoor-areas-key-points-from-govt-advisory-on-covid19-101621503159537.html
20-05-2021||India||PM Modi's Covid-19 meeting 'super flop', feel humiliated: Mamata Banerjee||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday lashed out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi over a meeting to discuss the Covid-19 situation. Terming the meeting a "superflop," Banerjee said that chief ministers were not allowed to speak in the meeting which was also attended by 54 district magistrates of 10 states with high Covid-19 caseload.Banerjee also said that the chief ministers "feel humiliated" as they were reduced to puppets.Earlier in the day, PM Modi held an interaction with district officials along with the respective chief ministers to discuss Covid-19 management strategy as the deadly virus seems to be spreading more in the rural areas. During the meeting, PM Modi spoke about developing a strategy based on the local experiences of the districts. He also said the infection was now a cause of concern for young people and children.PM Modi will interact with the district magistrates and field officials of 10 States-Chhattisgarh, Haryana, Kerala, Maharashtra, Odisha, Puducherry, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh.On May 18 as well, PM Modi had interacted with 46 district magistrates from nine states virtually.West Bengal chief minister's participation at the high-level meet comes after several such meetings being missed by her over the past few months.On April 8, Banerjee who is known for her vocal criticism of the Centre, reportedly skipped a meeting called by PM Modi to discuss the Covid-19 situation in the state. On March 17 as well, She skipped the meeting of chief ministers chaired by the Prime Minister over growing cases of Covid-19 and the vaccination drive.According to an ANI report, she has also skipped several meetings convened by Niti Aayog over the past few years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-covid-19-meeting-super-flop-feel-humiliated-mamata-banerjee-101621502874078.html
20-05-2021||India||Covid self-testing kit to be available in market by end of next week, says Pune-based manufacturer||CoviSelf, the first self-testing home kit for Covid testing, will be available in the market by the end of next week, the director of Pune's MyLab Discovery Solutions, Sujjet Jain, told news agency ANI. This is the first home kit to have got the approval of the Indian Council of Medical Research for home testing in the country. The manufacturer aims at reaching 90 per cent of the pin codes in India, while the kit will also be available for online purchase. "It will be available by end of next week in more than 7 lakh pharmacies & our online pharmacy partners across India," Jain said.The kit is priced at ₹250, including taxes and will come with a detailed manual on how to conduct the test at home, without the help of any medical practitioner. Since it is a Rapid Antigen Test, it will only require nasal swab. While the do-it-yourself test will take two minutes, the result will come within 15 minutes. A positive result, however, may come sooner than that. Any result coming after 20 minutes will be considered invalid, the manufacturer's video manual said.The concept of self-testing is not new as several countries have already allowed such kits for home use for early detection. As India has been battling with the second wave of the pandemic since March-April, the testing facilities have also become overburdened resulting in a longer wait for results.While the ICMR has already notified that people with Covid symptoms can be considered as Covid suspects and be subjected to treatment without waiting for the results, this home testing kit will help in quick detections.Apprehending indiscriminate use, the ICMR has made it clear that not everyone should opt for this test. Only those with symptoms and those who have come in contact with positive cases are advised to take this home testing.Mylab's current production capacity is 70 lakh tests per week and, within 14 days, the firm plans to increase the capacity to one crore test kits per week.A regular laboratory RAT test costs around ₹400 (approx) and an RT-PCR test costs around ₹800 (approx).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-self-testing-kit-to-be-available-in-market-by-next-week-says-manufacturer-101621502027860.html
20-05-2021||India||Make Mucormycosis a notifiable disease under epidemic act, urges Centre||The Centre on Thursday asked the states and the Union territories to announce Mucormycosis, commonly known as the ‘black fungus’ disease, as a notifiable disease under the Epidemic Diseases Act 1897.In a letter to the states and the Union territories, Lav Agarwal, the joint secretary of the Union health and family welfare said all government-run and private healthcare facilities and must follow the guidelines issued by the Centre and the ICMR for screening, diagnosis and management of Mucormycosis.“It must be mandatory for all these facilities to report all suspected and confirmed cases to the health department through chief medical officer and subsequently to IDSP surveillance system,” Agarwal wrote.ALSO READ: What is Mucormycosis and how deadly is it? Know everything about Black FungusHospitals across the country have been reporting cases of a rare coronavirus-linked fungal infection that affects the sinuses, the brain, and the lungs and can be life-threatening in diabetic or severely immune-compromised individuals such as cancer patients or people with HIV/AIDS.The top bureaucrat acknowledged the rising number of reported cases of Mucormycosis from various states as the “new challenge” while expressing concern over use of steroid therapy in the treatment of coronavirus disease cases.The black fungus is caused by the steroid administered in the treatment of Covid-19 infection.ALSO READ: Misuse of steroids major cause behind mucormycosis infection: AIIMS chiefLast week, Haryana declared Mucormycosis as a notified disease and the state health department called a meeting on ways to deal with the fungal infection. Several states, including Maharashtra, have also taken cognisance of the disease and have set up task force to evaluate the rising cases of black fungus infection among coronavirus patients. Doctors from both private and government hospitals have witnessed a manifold rise in cases of Mucormycosis after the second wave of the Covid-19 struck the country in February.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/make-mucormycosis-a-notifiable-disease-under-epidemic-act-urges-centre-101621501157362.html
20-05-2021||India||PM Narendra Modi asks for constant upgradation of ideas to defeat Covid-19||India’s battle against the Coved-19 pandemic requires continuous change, upgradation and innovations, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday while cautioning district-level administrators that the fight against the pandemic will be over only when it is wiped out from even the smallest area. He also said the infection was now a cause of concern for young people and children.The PM was confident that vaccine supplies will be strengthened and emphasised “we have to save our villages” as he sought more ideas and new practices to tackle the virus. Modi also described the virus as a “Dhurt Bahurupiya”, referring to its mutations.Addressing a virtual meeting of district magistrates, Modi said, “Every phase of the pandemic has taught us that constant change, upgradation and constant innovation is the key to fighting the pandemic. This virus is famous for changing itself through mutation. It is like a bahurupia and it is clever as well. So, our strategies and plans should also be dynamic.”The PM hailed the health ministry’s plan for providing the vaccine supply schedule 15 days in advance and said a vaccination calendar and more transparency in its supply would make the inoculation campaign easier.On Tuesday, during a similar interaction, the PM described the local administration officials as the “field commanders” in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. In the latest meeting, Modi reminded the district magistrates how they had prepared for the civil service exams. “You showed determination when you appeared for the exam. You solved problems with your own abilities. Today, you are facing the toughest test and now, you are using your abilities to solve even the smallest problems of your district.”Modi reminded that sensitivities and patience are essential in this battle and the “biggest jaributi (medicinal herbal) of success is earning people’s trust. He sought their ideas and quipped that field experience is more valuable than intellectual debate.As Covid cases are rapidly spreading to smaller cities and rural belts, Modi urged the district administrators to reach out to the people and convince them to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour to curb the infection. “Your presence, your speeches can remove fear among people. We have to send message to the villages that we have to save our villages.”The district magistrates were also urged to find unique solutions to their local problems and to do a separate analysis of the spread of virus in Tier two and Tier three cities. Modi was confident that the solution to check the virus from spreading in the rural areas can be found and told the administrators, “My experience says that if you convey the right things at the right time, people will follow religiously.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-asks-for-constant-upgradation-of-ideas-to-defeat-covid19-101621499805037.html
20-05-2021||India||Aerosols from Covid-19 infected person can travel in air upto 10 metres: Govt||The government on Thursday issued a set of guidelines to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as the country reels under the second wave of the pandemic. The "easy to follow guidelines" highlight the role of masks, social distancing, sanitation and ventilation in the country's fight against Covid-19, according to a release issued by the office of the principal scientific adviser to the government.Droplets fall within 2 meters from an infected person: Office of Principal Scientific Adviser to GoI pic.twitter.com/rxTsgl5nbQThrowing light on how well-ventilated spaces can reduce the risk of transmission from one infected person to the other, the guidelines say, "Just as smells can be diluted from the air through opening windows and doors and using exhaust systems, ventilating spaces with improved directional air flow decreases the accumulated viral land in the air, reducing the risk of transmission."Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIt is important to remember that those with no symptoms could also spread the virus, the guidelines said. Saliva and nasal discharge in the form of droplets and aerosols are the primary mode of transmission of the virus from an infected person, it added. To prevent this from happening, everyone should continue to wear double masks as these droplets are transmitted while exhaling, talking, speaking, singing, laughing, coughing, sneezing etc."Droplets fall within 2 meters from an infected person and aerosols can be carried in the air up to 10 meters," the government said.The virus infects human hosts, where it can multiply, and in the absence of the host, it cannot survive, the government said. "Stopping the transmission of the virus from a person to another person will decrease the infection rate of the disease to a level where it can eventually die. This can be achieved only with the support and cooperation of individuals, communities, local bodies and authorities. Use of masks, ventilation, distancing, and sanitation, the battle against the virus can be won," it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aerosols-from-covid-19-infected-person-can-travel-in-air-upto-10-metres-govt-101621495587388.html
20-05-2021||India||Palaniswami urges PM Modi to ask navy to search for 9 missing TN fishermen||Tamil Nadu leader of opposition and former chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday, requesting him to order immediate search operation by the navy and air force to trace nine missing fishermen from the state, news agency ANI reported.The fishermen went missing while fishing off the Kochi coast due to Cyclone Taukte. They belonged to Samnathanpettai in Nagapattinam district. The group ventured into the sea from Kochi on April 29 and while returning in the early hours of May 14, were caught in the storm and went missing.Tamil Nadu fisheries minister Anitha R Radhakrishnan on Tuesday visited the families of the nine fishermen and handed over ₹50,000 to each member of the family as financial assistance.Cyclone Tauktae unleashed waves of up to 7.6 metres as it moved along India's western coast before hitting the states of Maharashtra and Gujarat over the past two days. It left a trail of destruction that killed dozens of people, authorities said.Among those killed are those present on an oilfield accommodation barge. With 261 people on board, the barge sank after the storm smashed into the Bombay High oilfield near Mumbai, where India's biggest offshore oil rigs are located.The navy said 186 people have been rescued from the barge contracted to state-run energy explorer Oil and Natural Gas Corp.Prime Minister Narendra Modi conducted an aerial survey of the damage in Gujarat and announced a financial package of ₹1,000 crore to carry out "immediate relief activities".Cyclone Tauktae has weakened since making landfall in Gujarat on Monday with gusts of up to 210 kph (130 mph) and is expected to lose strength overnight, India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/palaniswami-urges-pm-modi-to-ask-navy-to-search-for-9-missing-tn-fishermen-101621497219576.html
20-05-2021||India||Amid the gloom of Covid-19, Centre’s data paints a glimmer of hope||India recorded 276,110 new cases of coronavirus diseases (Covid-19) and 3,874 related fatalities in the previous 24 hours, data released by the Union ministry of health and family welfare at 8am on Thursday showed.The total Covid-19 cases have now climbed to 25,772,440, even as the active cases have dropped to 31,29,878 comprising 12.14% of the total infections from the viral disease. It was during this 24-hour-long period that 369,077 people recovered from the disease, taking the country’s cumulative recovery count to 2,23,55,440 pegging the recovery rate at 86.74%.ALSO READ: You can self-test Covid at home by taking nasal swab, ICMR issues advisoryThe Union health ministry said 10 states account for 75.11% of new recoveries with Maharashtra leading from the front with 51,457 recorded recoveries in the previous 24 hours, followed by Karnataka with 49,951 recoveries and Kerala with 48,413 cured cases. The rest of the states in the list of 10 are Andhra Pradesh (24,819), Tamil Nadu (23,863), Uttar Pradesh (19,669), West Bengal (19,151), Rajasthan (16,039), Bihar (12,043) and Haryana (11,821).The data released by the health ministry also shows the country’s daily recoveries have trumped the tally of daily cases for the seventh straight day. The single-day cases remained below 300,000 for the fourth consecutive day.Tamil Nadu has recorded the maximum number of cases of Covid-19 infection in the previous 24 hours at 34,875, followed by Karnataka and Maharashtra with 34,281 and 34,031 cases, respectively.ALSO READ: ‘Covid active cases declining but…’: PM Modi sounds a note of cautionThe mortality rate in the country from coronavirus-related disease stood at 1.11%, with 287,122 people having succumbed to the disease since the pandemic struck the country early last year. The previous 24 hours have also seen a positive drop in the number of deaths, after the country recorded the world’s highest single-day deaths on Wednesday.Meanwhile, as many as 20,55,010 samples were conducted on Wednesday – which is the highest-ever conducted in a single day so far – taking the tally of total number of tests done to 322.3 million, according to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).AstraZeneca vaccine followed by Pfizer dose 'highly' safe, effective: StudyIndia has so far vaccinated 187 million people till Wednesday, of which 70,17,189 beneficiaries in 18-44 age group have received their first hot. However, the Centre said those who have had a Covid-19 infection must wait for three months before taking the vaccine jab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-the-gloom-of-covid-19-centre-s-data-paints-a-glimmer-of-hope-101621496491784.html
20-05-2021||India||‘Covid active cases declining but…’: PM Modi sounds a note of caution||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday laid emphasis on the Covid-19 management strategy based on the local experiences as he interacted with district officials of 10 states reporting high caseload via virtual conference. Speaking at the meeting, the Prime Minister said, "If Covid-19 can mutate, so should our fighting strategies. In the midst of new challenges, we need new strategies and solutions. It becomes important to use local experiences and we need to work together as a country."Lauding 54 district magistrates in the 10 states for their covid-19 management work, PM Modi highlighted that the active cases have started coming down in the country. He, however, said that challenges will remain as long as the virus is present even on a minor scale."In these one and a half years, you have experienced that as long as this infection is present even on the minor scale, the challenge remains," said PM Modi.He also addressed the topic of vaccine wastage and said, "Wastage of a single vaccine means not being able to provide the necessary protective cover to one life. Therefore, it is necessary to stop vaccine waste."PM Modi asked district magistrates to prioritise making life easier for their people by providing free ration and other essential supplies. "Along with saving lives, our priority is the ease of living of every person," he said, adding, "There should be facilities for free ration for the poor, other essential supplies, black marketing should be stopped, all these are also necessary to win this fight, and it is also necessary to move forward."After witnessing an unprecedented spike of 400,000 cases a day, India is seeing a steady decline in the daily cases of infection. The average number is now hovering below the 300,000 mark. As of Thursday morning, the active cases in the country stands at 31,29,878, comprising 12.14 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 86.74 per cent, according to the Union health ministry daily bulletin.However, the number of fatalities is still on the worrying lines keeping the health officials on their toes. On Thursday, the toll increased by 3,874 and it currently stands at 287, 122.Thursday's meeting was the second such interaction between the Prime Minister and the district-level officials. The first meeting was on May 18, when PM Modi met 46 district magistrates from nine states virtually.Till now, PM Modi has held a number of meetings with chief ministers from across the country and also, in some cases, from high caseload states on the pandemic situation since its first reported outbreak in 2020. But now, the focus of the government has shifted to rural areas, which are reporting a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases. The government recently released guidelines for controlling the spread of the infection in these areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-active-cases-declining-but-pm-modi-sounds-a-note-of-caution-101621495908475.html
20-05-2021||India||PM Modi condoles demise of former Rajasthan CM Jagannath Pahadia||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot expressed their condolences on the death of former Chief Minister of Rajasthan Jagannath Pahadia on Thursday.Remembering the former chief minister's long political and administrative career, PM Modi said Pahadia made noteworthy contributions to further social empowerment."Saddened by the demise of former Rajasthan CM, Shri Jagannath Pahadia ji. In his long political and administrative career, he made noteworthy contributions to further social empowerment. Condolences to his family and supporters. Om Shanti," PM Modi tweeted.Jagannath Pahadia passed away due to Covid-19.Gehlot announced that Rajasthan will observe one day of state mourning in honour of former chief minister."I'm very shocked by his demise. He served the country as Governor and Union Minister too and he was among one of the veteran leaders in the country," he tweeted."Rajasthan will observe one day of state mourning in honour of former CM Jagannath Pahadia and the national flag will be flown at half-mast. All govt offices to remain close today. His last rites will be performed with full state honour", Gehlot said in another tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-expresses-condolences-condoles-death-of-former-rajasthan-cm-jagannath-pahadia-101621493469578.html
20-05-2021||India||India can help change global supply chains: Foreign minister Jaishankar||Union minister of external affairs S Jaishankar on Thursday spoke on shaping the post-coronavirus era with a specific relevance to the role that Asia would play at the 26th ‘Future of Asia’ Conference organized by Nikkei.He said among other things coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has reshaped the world by changing the perceptions and calculations of nations about each other and the world by bringing out the value of trust and transparency and the importance of reliable supply chains."It has heightened the risk aversion in a world now more insecure and encouraged strategic autonomy to address over-dependence by focusing on the need to create greater global capacities so that pandemic-scale challenges are more effectively met," the minister said."What we will now have to conceptualize is re-engineering the way the world works to prepare for and mitigate such cataclysmic events. Covid-19 has certainly triggered debates on issues like supply chains, global governance, social responsibility and even ethics. But for many of us gathered here today, it equally encourages an objective assessment of the contemporary world so that we are better prepared for tomorrow," he further said.The foreign minister said making that happen requires decisions, initiatives and consultations at many levels. "India, on its part, can help strengthen and de-risk the global economy through more effective partnerships. With Japan and Australia, we are working on a supply chain resilience initiative. Where the Quad arrangement that also involves the US is concerned, its agenda today covers vaccine collaboration, critical and emerging technologies, semi-conductors, supply chains, critical materials and connectivity, amongst others. Recent Indian summits with the European Union and the United Kingdom, that saw advancement on FTAs, are also noteworthy in that regard," he said.The minister outlined that better international cooperation can also be facilitated by improved national capacities."If India is to make a real contribution to Asian and global economic recovery, it can start by helping itself more. Even while the Covid-19 was ongoing last year, bold reforms were undertaken in industry, agriculture, labour and education. Perhaps most relevant to this audience are the production-linked incentive (PLI) schemes to attract manufacturing in 13 sectors: mobiles and electronic components, KSM and APIs for pharmaceuticals, medical devices, electronic and technology products, drugs, telecom and networking products, food products, white goods, high efficiency solar PV models, auto and auto components, ACC battery, textile products and speciality steel."The minister further said that India aims to make manufacturing in India globally competitive by removing sectoral disabilities, creating economies of scale and ensuring efficiencies. "By creating a level-playing field and encouraging a component eco-system, it will integrate India deeper into the global supply chain. Already, the global response to the PLI initiative has been strong. Coupled with an improvement in India’s position in the World Bank’s Ease of Doing Business rankings – 63 (2020) from 142 (2014) – it would enhance our economic relevance," he added.The foreign minister also reiterated India's renewable energy target of 450GW by 2030. "As one of the few G20 economies adhering to its Paris commitments, India's 15% energy efficiency savings, shift to LED lighting with 367 million bulbs, moving 80 million households from biomass to LPG cooking and being among the top three nations to expand forest cover in the last decade are examples of seriousness," Jaishankar outlined at the gathering.In ensuring economic recovery, Indo-Japan relations have a notable role, even beyond Asia, the minister said, adding that New Delhi's partnership is seen as among the most natural in the region."Japan is a valuable partner in the national campaigns and is consistently supportive of our infrastructure development. In fact, Japanese-supported projects are among the most successful infrastructure examples, most recent examples being the Delhi-Mumbai Industrial Corridor and the Dedicated Western Freight Corridor. Its long-standing FDI footprint in India is steadily expanding, covering 1455 companies as of 2021, more than half in manufacturing. New industrial collaborations are in the making even as we speak. Its contribution in skills enhancements is visible in 16 Japan-India Institutes for Manufacturing and 5 Japan Endowed Courses," the minister added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-can-help-change-global-supply-chains-foreign-minister-jaishankar-101621487033404.html
20-05-2021||India||Rising cases, overstretched health infra: TN struggles to battle 2nd Covid wave||On May 19, Tamil Nadu reported 35,875 new Covid-19 cases — the highest in terms of daily count in India. The state’s active cases crossed 200,000 on May 15. While the Covid-19 curve is dropping in several pockets of the country, the outbreak in Tamil Nadu is the fastest rising among India’s 20 most populous regions. But the real cause of concern for the state is the rate at which these infections are rising.The seven-day average of new infections (a number used to denote the case curve of a region) in the state has gone from 24,735 new cases a day a week ago to 31,137 for the week ending Sunday, an increase of 26% in seven days — the highest week-on-week growth of any major state in the country. In contrast, the national case curve has contracted 16% in the same time period.The average positivity rate — the proportion of tests that return positive for Covid-19 — in the state also underlines the worrying situation. On average, 19.7% samples tested in the state have returned positive for Sars-CoV-2 in the past week. This number is nearly four times the threshold of 5% recommended by the World Health Organization (WHO) in order to establish if a region is testing adequately and has the outbreak under control. This number, which is a crucial statistic that shows how prevalent the virus is in society, is still rising. A rising positivity rate in a region, when coupled with increasing new cases, indicates that the virus is spreading fast within the community.The testing gap To arrest the magnitude of the transmission owing to the presence of new variants, the state went into a lockdown starting May 10 which will go on until May 24. However, during this period, new cases and deaths have continued to rise but testing has remained the same. An average of 158,000 tests per day were conducted in the past week.Experts say that Tamil Nadu needs to double its testing. “We aren’t testing adequately but it is a challenge to scale up RT-PCR tests,” says Dr Prabhdeep Kaur, deputy director, National Institute of Epidemiology.Also Read | India logs 276,110 Covid-19 cases in a single-day; fatalities below 4,000As a policy, Tamil Nadu only follows RT-PCR testing — the gold standard to detect the novel coronavirus. “But now is the time to consider adding rapid antigen tests,” says Kaur. “RT-PCR testing labs are stretched out and if turnaround time for results is late, it defeats the purpose.” With 267 labs (198 private and 69 government labs), the state already has one of the highest number of labs approved for Covid-19 labs.“We have the capacity to test 300,000 samples a day,” says health secretary J Radhakrishnan. During the first wave, the state’s thumb rule was to test a minimum of 10 people for every positive case. That’s how experts have arrived at a figure of conducting 300,000 tests daily as the average of new cases reported daily in the past week is 31,137. This is a rapid increase from 17,865 average daily cases between April 26 up to May 2 — the day of election counting in the state. The following week, the average daily cases went up to 24,735.Testing also varies district-wise depending on the number of infections as well as lab facilities. Chennai accounts for 27% of the cases in the state which is the highest among the 37 districts.“But we need to worry more where there are less cases also,” says Kaur. “If you see the pattern of the virus transmission in the second wave such as in Maharashtra and UP, there was rapid transmission in smaller districts also while we saw only a majority of cities being affected in the first wave. The lockdown has bought us time, and we have to assess our capacity in smaller districts. Epidemiologically speaking, the virus spreads faster among those who haven’t been infected and vaccinated already. So sero prevalence surveys have indicated that half of Chennai is already infected so people in other districts and rural areas are more susceptible now.” She added that the government setting up buses with oxygen concentrators and oxygen support is a good move to stabilise them until they receive beds.The pressure on health infra The state’s key concern is to procure more oxygen and increase oxygenated beds. As of 3pm on May 19, in Chennai’s five government hospitals, there were no ICU beds available and only 49 oxygen supported beds that are vacant. The city’s private hospitals too didn’t have a single ICU bed available. Like elsewhere in the country, patients have been waiting for long hours outside hospitals and being treated inside ambulances before an oxygen supported bed becomes vacant.After repeatedly appealing to the Centre, Tamil Nadu has been receiving an allocation of 519 MTs of oxygen from the Centre’s pool daily. Additionally, the state has imported 80 MTs of oxygen from the Netherlands and procured 12 cryogenic containers from China.Also Read | Smaller states, difficut to reach areas showing upward Covid trend: Govt“Our own production is limited so we are trying every small avenue to meet the oxygen demand. We want to have a seamless operation so we are focussing on getting most of our oxygen from the east like Rourkela, Durgapur, Telangana, Jameshedpur etc,” says Thangam Tennarasu, minister for industries. They estimate the oxygen demand to shoot up to 800 MTS per day in the coming days.Due to shortage in vaccines, the Tamil Nadu government officially opens up vaccination for the 18-45 age category on Thursday. So far, the state has vaccinated seven million people. The state has also gone for a global tender for 35 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines.But for now, the rise in cases, the high positivity rate, inadequate testing, an overwhelmed medical infrastructure, and a much slower than desirable rate of vaccination mean that Tamil Nadu could well decide the next phase of India’s Covid trajectory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rising-cases-overstretched-health-infra-tn-struggles-to-battle-2nd-covid-wave-101621492182066.html
20-05-2021||India||11 more bodies recovered, search on for 47 after cyclone sank barge off Mumbai||The navy has since Wednesday night recovered 11 more bodies of crew members of an accommodation barge, which went adrift and sank in Heera oil fields in the Arabian sea hours before the Cyclone Tauktae made landfall on the Gujarat coast on Monday, taking the toll from the tragedy to 37. It continued the search for the remaining 47 crew members of the barge and 11 others, who were on a tugboat, Varaprada, which too reportedly sank during the cyclone.The barge was deployed at a platform in one of the largest ONGC rigs in the Arabian sea. It got de-anchored on Sunday night. Deputy chief of naval staff vice-admiral Murlidhar Sadashiv Pawar said it sank around 7 pm on Monday in a choppy sea, which made the subsequent search and rescue operation one of the most challenging for the navy in four decades.Also Read | Tauktae rare, but Arabian Sea to see more cyclones than Bay of Bengal: MurakamiAfcons Infrastructure, which leads the consortium that had chartered the barge and hired its marine crew, has said there were 261 people on it.The navy received an SOS from the barge on Monday morning following which three warships--INS Kochi, INS Talwar, and INS Kolkata--were dispatched for search and rescue operation along with four helicopters. The aerial surveillance was augmented by two S8I surveillance aircraft.The navy has so far rescued 186 from the barge and two crew members of Varprada. It has recovered 37 bodies, all believed to be the crew of the accommodation barge.The naval said the search and rescue operation continues for the remaining missing crew members of the barge and the tugboat. Ships, surveillance aircraft, and helicopters have been deployed for the search. Coast guard units have also joined the operation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-tauktae-11-more-bodies-recovered-search-on-for-47-missing-barge-crew-101621491221821.html
20-05-2021||India||Hyderabad girl receives Microsoft job offer with salary package of ₹2 crore||A student from Hyderabad bagged a job in the American tech giant Microsoft with an annual package of ₹2 crore. According to her Linkedin profile, Deepthi Narkuti will be working as a Software Development Engineer at Grade-2 in Microsoft's headquarter office in Seattle.Narkuti recently completed her MS at the University of Florida. During the placement, she also received an offer from Goldman Sachs and Amazon. Among the 300 candidates who have also received the job offer from Microsoft, Narukuti received the highest package.Before this, she was working at JP Morgan as a software engineer. She resigned from the American investment bank three years ago and came to the US for further studies.In her about section on Linkedin, Narkuti said that she loves coding and "strongly believes that technology can greatly help in solving day to day problems." "It thereby creates a significant impact in transforming the lives of the people," she also wrote.Narkuti completed her graduation from the Osmania College of Engineering in Hyderabad and her father is a forensic expert in the Hyderabad Police Commissionerate.Her father's colleague and an IPS officer, Anjani Kumar took to Twitter to congratulate Narkuti. "Deepti daughter of our officer Dr Venkanna got a job offer of ₹2 crore in the USA. A matter of pride and encouragement for all of us," he wrote on Twitter.Interestingly, she was also with Microsoft for a period of one year from June 2014 to June 2015. Narkuti was working as a student associate at that time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hyderabad-girl-receives-microsoft-job-offer-with-salary-package-of-rs-2-crore-101621489491286.html
20-05-2021||India||India has administered nearly 187mn Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered nearly 187million coronavirus vaccine doses by Wednesday, May 19. While states have begun global tenders for procurement of vaccines, the Centre said those who have had a Covid infection must wait for three months before taking the vaccine jab. This comes on a day the Delhi government said it had begun preparing for the third wave of Covid-19.Meanwhile, by Wednesday 8pm, 186,989,265 vaccine doses had been given in India. This includes 9,685,597 healthcare workers who have had their first dose and 6,667,071 who have got their second dose as well. As many as 14,634,130 frontline workers have had their first dose while 8,256,235 have got their second dose too.In the 45-59-year age group, 58,340,325 people have got their first dose and another 9,434,731 have had their second dose as well. In the 60+ category, 54,933,136 people have been administered their first dose while 18,025,288 have had their second dose as well.Also Watch | Covid, Children and Black Fungus: Dr Faheem Younus answers your questionsIn the 18-44 year age group, 527,067 beneficiaries received their first dose of Covid vaccine on Wednesday and cumulatively, 7,012,752 of this age group have been vaccinated across 36 states and Union Territories.As many as 1,145,569 vaccine doses were given by the evening. Of this, 991,831 beneficiaries were vaccinated with the first dose and 153,738 beneficiaries received their second dose as well.Meanwhile, the country has approved home-based rapid tests. These rapid antigen tests detect Covid-19 in 15 minutes and will be made available at chemist shops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-nearly-187mn-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101621489242236.html
20-05-2021||India||'Operation Muskan': Police rescue 4,257 street children across Andhra Pradesh||As many as 4,257 children from all over Andhra Pradesh were rescued by the state police on Wednesday as part of 'Operation Muskan', aimed at rescuing children on the streets, orphans, and those sent to work by parents due to financial burdens.Out of the 4,257 children, 10 were identified in Krishna district's Nuzividu circle.District SP Raveendranath Babu, who monitored the program at the district headquarters in Machilipatnam, said that the children have been sent to childcare centres."It is not correct to use children as laborers even if parents have financial burdens. The state government is holding many programs for the welfare of such children. We are giving counseling to the parents. Some children are identified. They will be sent to government-run homes after conducting covid tests. If anybody is identified with Corona, they will be sent to covid care centers," Babu said.Nuzividu circle inspector Venkata Ramana said that counselling is held for the parents of the 10 children who were found on the streets and have been handed back to them.The circle inspector also warned shopkeepers and others that legal action will be taken on them if they employ minor children to do work at their place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/operation-muskan-police-rescue-4-257-street-children-across-andhra-pradesh-101621486947450.html
20-05-2021||India||Budget session of Andhra Pradesh assembly today, TDP to boycott it||A single-day budget session of the Andhra Pradesh Assembly is scheduled to be held on Thursday.The one-day session is being called by Yuvajana Sramika Rythu Congress Party (YSRCP) government as a "statutory obligation", as is mandatory for Assembly to meet every six months.Meanwhile, the Opposition Telugu Desam Party (TDP) on Tuesday said that it would boycott the single-day budget session in protest against the "unilateral", "undemocratic" and "illogical" decisions of the government led by Chief Minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy.TDP said it will hold a 'mock' Assembly session on Thursday evening and Friday morning to discuss state government 'failures'.TDP deputy floor leader Nimmala Ramanaidu in a statement said that his party has boycotted the assembly budget session because alleging there will be "no scope for discussion of public issues in this budget session which is to be held for only one day"."The opposition party may not get a chance to raise its voice. In protest of government attitude, we are conducting mock assembly today and tomorrow," said Ramanaidu."The mock Assembly will hold a short term discussion on Covid in today's evening session. In tomorrow's session, failures of the government and its betrayal of the public on various issues will be discussed," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/budget-session-of-andhra-pradesh-assembly-today-tdp-to-boycott-it-101621484882969.html
20-05-2021||India||Cyclone Tauktae: 49 from barge still missing, Navy continues search on 4th day||With 49 people on board a barge that sank in the Arabian Sea four days ago still missing, Indian Navy ships worked through the night, using searchlights to trace any movement in the pitch dark waters, as hopes of finding more survivors began to recede on Thursday.The Navy on Thursday morning launched a fresh aerial search and rescue mission, deploying helicopters to scour the waters off Mumbai coast, where the accommodation barge P305 went adrift in Cyclone Tauktae fury before it sank Monday.Watch | Cyclone Tauktae: 26 dead, 49 missing from P305 barge; search ops continueAs many as 26 personnel on board the barge are dead and 49 still missing, after Navy personnel, battling extreme weather, so far rescued 186 of the 261 people who were on board the barge P305 and two personnel from tugboat Varaprada.Naval ships INS Kochi on Wednesday morning and INS Kolkata late Wednesday night brought the bodies of the "Brave Nature's Victims" to Mumbai, the spokesperson told PTI.Chances of finding more survivors are looking bleak, an official said.Mumbai police have announced they will conduct a probe as to why the ill-fated barge remained in the turbulent area despite warnings about cyclone Tauktae, an official said. They registered an accidental death report (ADR) on Wednesday in connection with the death of the personnel on the barge."The Navy's Search and Rescue (SAR) operations entered the fourth day today. Naval ships and aircraft are presently undertaking SAR of the missing crew members of Accommodation Barge P-305, which sank on Monday 35 miles off Mumbai," a Navy spokesperson said.Also Read | Tauktae rare, but Arabian Sea to see more cyclones than Bay of Bengal: MurakamiNavy ships INS Kochi, INS Kolkata, INS Beas, INS Betwa, INS Teg, P8I maritime surveillance aircraft, Chetak, ALH and Seaking helicopters are involved in the SAR operations, he said.Another Navy ship INS Talwar was the 'On Scene Coordinator' off Gujarat coast and assisted Support Station 3 (SS-3) and Drill Ship Sagar Bhushan, which were being safely towed back to Mumbai by ONGC support vessels, he said.Navy ships were deployed on Monday after the Navy was informed that barge 'P305' had gone adrift off the Heera oil fields in Bombay high area with 261 personnel on board. The oil fields are around 70 km southwest of Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-tauktae-49-from-barge-still-missing-navy-continues-search-on-4th-day-101621482061080.html
20-05-2021||India||NIA takes over probe in July 2019 encounter with Maoists in Bastar||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has taken over a probe from Chhattisgarh police into an encounter security forces had with a group of Maoists in Bastar in July 2019, in which six Maoists and a civilian were killed, people familiar with the development said. It was not immediately known why NIA has been roped in to investigate a case after almost two years while the recent -- April 3, 2021 -- ambush in Bijapur, in which 22 security personnel were killed by a group of Maoists led by their most dreaded commander, Madvi Hidma, is still being investigated by the local police. Officials familiar with process said the central agency has taken over 5-6 cases similar cases in Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh this year as it prepares to initiate strong action against the Maoists. Also Read | ‘3 killed in exchange of fire between security forces, Maoists in Chhattisgarh’s Sukma’: PoliceThe latest case pertains to an exchange of fire between the security forces and Maoists on July 27, 2019 near Tiriya village in Bastar region. A joint team of local District Reserve Guard (DRG), Special Task Force and Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), had travelled to the area after receiving information that a group of Maoist cadre had gathered near Tiriya with an intention to perpetrate a big incident on July 28 -- Shaheed Diwas. During the gunfight, six Maoists, including three women cadres, and a civilian were killed and security forces recovered several arms and ammunition, including seven rifles. The government has claimed in Parliament that there is 70% decline in Maoists violence in the country – from all-time high of 2,258 incidents in 2009 to 665 in 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-takes-over-probe-in-july-2019-encounter-with-maoists-in-bastar-101621483841130.html
20-05-2021||India||India logs 276,110 Covid-19 cases in a single-day; fatalities below 4,000||India recorded 276,110 new cases of the coronavius disease (Covid-19) in a 24-hour span, the Union health ministry data showed on Thursday morning. The total tally of the viral infection now stands at 25,772,440. Thursday's numbers show India continues to maintain a downward trend in daily Covid-19 cases after the number of cases hovered above 300,000 in the deadly second wave of the infection.In a positive development, the number of single-day fatalities dipped with 3,874 people succumbing to the disease. This comes days after the country has been witnessing a surge in daily fatalities. On Wednesday, 4,529 people died of Covid-19 in a highest single-day spike so far.While the daily number of Covid-19 cases are falling steadily, health officials are still concerned about a spike in related fatalities. In ANI report, a public health expert Dr VK Monga said, the trend may continue to rise for another week at least, before it begins to settle down in proportion to the number of daily cases.Dr Monga attributed prolonged hospitalisation and Covid-19 complications as the reason behind the surge in deaths. "A large number of patients are still admitted in ICU in various hospitals... and because of the complications of Covid-19 and prolonged stay in hospitals, they may lose the battle, thus resulting in increased figures of death," Dr Monga said.Later in the day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to hold a meeting with district magistrates of 10 states with a high Covid-19 caseload to review the situation. During the meeting, the 54 district magistrates are expected to apprise the Prime Minister on the ground management of the infection in their respective states. The chief ministers of these states are also expected to be part of the interaction.This is the second meeting PM Modi will hold with the district officials on the Covid-19 situation. The first meeting took place on May 18, when PM Modi met held a virtual meeting with 46 district magistrates from nine statesEarlier, the Union health ministry listed 10 states that are contributing the most - as much as 74.46 per cent - to India's daily tally. According to the ministry, these states are Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Haryana.On the vaccination front, the cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has reached 18.58 crore. A total of 18,58,09,302 vaccine doses have been administered through 27,10,934 sessions, as per the provisional report by the health minist on Wednesday.Meanwhile, the Centre approved the first home test for Covid-19 on Wednesday, allowing people to buy a kit that costs ₹250 and gives results within 15 minutes. The kit has been manufactured by Pune-based Mylab Discovery Solutions Ltd and it is a rapid antigen test (RAT).According to the guidelines by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the kit should be used only by those who have Covid-19 symptoms or had close contact with an infected person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-logs-276-110-covid-19-cases-in-a-single-day-fatalities-below-4000-101621481251651.html
20-05-2021||India||Smaller states, difficut to reach areas showing upward Covid trend: Govt||Smaller states are showing an upward trend and there is a need to be cautious about it, said Union Health minister Harsh Vardhan while reviewing Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation of the north eastern states and West Bengal on Wednesday.In a statement, the health ministry said the virus was spreading to N-E pockets that are difficult to reach in terms of geography. “There is a new and emerging trend in the country where the smaller states are showing an upward trend,” said Harsh Vardhan. The review said all districts of Mizoram are showing a rise in new cases. Nagaland shows a sharp increase in daily cases—from 15-20 per day to 300 cases per day— and weekly positivity rate is up from 1% to 34%. Positivity rate is the proportion of people testing positive for an infection among all those tested for it.In Assam, Kamrup, which is a metropolitan, is contributing almost 45% of the daily new cases, while in Meghalaya, East Khasi Hills and Righboi are reporting sharp increases in daily cases.Also Read | Kerala govt’s swearing-in today, 500 people expected to attendManipur’s recovery rate of 78% and case fatality rate (CFR) of more than 1% was also highlighted during the meeting as a matter of concern.CFR is the proportion of people dying from a disease among all those diagnosed with it.Sikkim was advised to strengthen community surveillance and ensure strict monitoring of home quarantine to address its high CFR. In Arunachal Pradesh, ICU occupancy is almost 22.5% while the capital complex and Changlang districts are reporting the maximum cases.All districts of West Bengal are showing a steep increase in positivity rate. Kolkata, North 24 Parganas, South 24 Parganas, Howrah and Nadia were flagged as districts of concern. In Tripura, there has been a steep rise in positivity from 1.3% in April to around 8.7% now, the minister noted. West Tripura, Unakoti, South Tripura were flagged as districts of concern. The health minister also said that there is a need to strengthen testing facilities in peri-urban and rural areas. “With changes in guidelines, more and more of rapid antigen tests can be done now, so that the mortality rate can be decreased. There is a need to focus on peri urban and rural areas significantly,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/smaller-states-difficut-to-reach-areas-showing-upward-covid-trend-govt-101621482820972.html
20-05-2021||India||Bengal, Odisha prep for Cyclone Yaas; IMD says Amphan-like intensification can't be ruled out: 10 points||After severe cyclonic storm Tauktae in the west coast, another cyclone named Yaas is likely to hit the east coast on May 26, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Wednesday.A low pressure area is very likely to form over north Andaman Sea and adjoining east-central Bay of Bengal around May 22, it said. It is likely to intensify gradually into a cyclonic storm in the subsequent 72 hours, the IMD added.Under the influence of the system, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Odisha, West Bengal, Assam and Meghalaya are likely to receive light to moderate rainfall at most places with heavy falls at isolated places from evening of May 25, the weather department said.Here's the latest on Cyclone Yaas:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-yaas-imd-warns-of-amphan-like-intensification-101621481917684.html
20-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Incessant rain brings temperature to 70-year low in Delhi||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi: Incessant rain brings day temperature to 70-year lowThe maximum temperature in the Capital fell 16 degrees below normal, weather officials said, after a day-long spell of moderate rainfall, with Delhi recording a maximum temperature of 23.8 degrees Celsius on Wednesday -- the lowest maximum temperature in May for at least 70 years. Read more.G-SAP: Second tranche of bond buying worth ₹35,000 crore todayThe second tranche of open market purchase of government securities worth ₹35,000 crore under the G-sec Acquisition Programme (G-SAP) will take place on Thursday. This follows the Reserve Bank of India's (RBI) announcement to this effect last week. Read more.Google to roll out About this Result in search to tackle fake newsTech giant Google announced a slew of new features at its I/O 2021 event to help users navigate the internet in an easy way. Among them is About this Result in Search feature which can help in tackling fake news. Read more.Covid-19 cases down, Delhi begins preparations for third waveChief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said that the Delhi government has set in motion a plan to prepare for the next wave of Covid-19 infections in the Capital, which could require nearly 40,000 oxygen beds and 10,000 ICU beds, and potentially hit younger people, particularly children, harder. Read more.Anil Kapoor grooves to Ramta Jogi in video shared by Sunita: 'My mad crazy husband, please keep entertaining me'Actor Anil Kapoor on Wednesday celebrated his wedding anniversary and his wife Sunita Kapoor shared a throwback video in which he could be sen grooving to one of his popular songs from the 90s, Ramta Jogi. Anil and Sunita dated for 11 years before they tied the knot in 1984. Read more.'He said, Maza aayega dekh': Raina narrates how he was greeted by Dhoni after being bought by CSK in IPL auctionsThe camaraderie between former Indian all-rounder Suresh Raina and ex-India skipper MS Dhoni is nothing new. Both cricketers share a strong bond between them and the fans have witnessed it time and again. Be it playing for India or representing Chennai Super Kings in the Indian Premier League, the duo has set a great example of companionship. Read more.Singapore to file case against Delhi CM? Kejriwal's Covid comments cause stormSingapore envoy to India commented on Delhi CM's remarks. The envoy hinted at a possibility of filing a case against Kejriwal. Arvind Kejriwal's Covid comments have caused a diplomatic flutter. Watch video here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-incessant-rain-brings-temperature-to-70-year-low-in-delhi-101621481240613.html
20-05-2021||India||Maha’s active Covid cases drop; total tally at 5,467,537||Maharashtra on Wednesday recorded 34,031 new Covid cases, pushing the total count to 5,467,537. The tally of active cases dipped to 401,695 as 51,457 recoveries were also reported in the past 24 hours. State health minister Rajesh Tope has hinted that the lockdown may not be extended as the situation is improving.The state saw 594 casualties in the past 24 hours, taking its toll to 84,371. Kolhapur reported the highest toll with 80 deaths. The district recorded 68 deaths while the city reported 12 fatalities. It was followed by Mumbai and Pune with 57 and 49 casualties respectively.Also Read | Covid-19 cases on decline, lockdown unlikely to be extended in MaharashtraAfter over three months of surge, the daily cases in state have started declining gradually. The situation started changing since the state government imposed a complete lockdown on April 22, which has been extended till June 1 morning . For six straight days, Maharashtra has been reporting less than 40,000 new cases. However, the case fatality rate (CFR) of the state has been on the rise for the first time since July 2020. CFR is the proportion of people dying of a disease among all those infected by it over a period of time.As many as 14,462 fatalities have been reported in this month alone, which is record highest in any of the months since March 2020 when Covid-19 hit Maharashtra, according to the statistics provided by the state health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mahas-active-covid-cases-drop-total-tally-at-5467537-101621481621467.html
20-05-2021||India||PM Modi to hold another meeting with district magistrates on Covid-19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Thursday hold a meeting with district magistrates of 10 states with high Covid-19 caseload to review the situation. During the meeting, the 54 district magistrates are expected to apprise the Prime Minister on the ground management of the infection in their respective states. The chief ministers of these states including West Bengal's Mamata Banerjee, are also expected to be part of the interaction.Chief secretary, health secretary along with DM's of nine districts will also be participating in the meeting virtually.This is the second meeting PM Modi will hold with the district officials on the Covid-19 situation. The first meeting took place on May 18, when PM Modi held a virtual meeting with 46 district magistrates from nine states.Till now, PM Modi has held a number of meetings with chief ministers from across the country and also, in some cases, from high caseload states on the pandemic situation since its first reported outbreak in 2020. But now, the focus of the government has shifted to rural areas, which are reporting a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases. The government recently released guidelines for controlling the spread of the infection in these areas.On Wednesday, India's Covid-19 caseload surged past 25,496,000 after it recorded more than 267,300 cases of infection in a single day. The daily number of infections has dropped from the peak of 400,000 cases.There has been an average decline in daily new cases since May 9.A total of Covid-19 active cases has also decreased to 32,26,719 with a decline of 1,27,046 being recorded in the active case count in a 24-hour span on Wednesday, according to Union health ministry data. The active cases now comprise of 12.66 per cent of the country's total cases.Earlier, the Union health ministry listed 10 states that are contributing the most - as much as 74.46 per cent - to India's daily tally. According to the ministry, these states are Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Haryana.On Wednesday, Tamil Nadu reported the highest number of daily new cases at 33,059, followed by Kerala with 31,337.On the vaccination front, the cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has reached 18.58 crore, the health ministry announced on Wednesday. A total of 18,58,09,302 vaccine doses have been administered through 27,10,934 sessions, as per the provisional report till 7 am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-hold-another-meeting-with-district-magistrates-on-covid19-101621480407600.html
20-05-2021||India||Rain likely to reduce gradually over northwest India today: IMD||Rain over northwest India is likely to reduce in intensity gradually on Thursday as the depression over east Rajasthan has weakened, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).The depression (remnant of the extremely severe cyclonic storm Tauktae) over east Rajasthan and neighbourhood moved northeastwards, weakened into a well marked low pressure area over east Rajasthan and adjoining west Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday. It is very likely to move northeastwards and weaken gradually into a low pressure area during the next 24 hours. The remnant of the system is very likely to move further northeastwards to Uttar Pradesh during the next 36 hours.Also Read | Cyclone Tauktae weakens into depression, says IMDA Western Disturbance is lying as a cyclonic circulation over Jammu and Kashmir. The depression would interact with the Western Disturbance. In addition, high moisture feeding from Arabian Sea is also likely over northwest India. As a result, fairly widespread to widespread rainfall activity is likely over northwest India (except Jammu & Kashmir) with heavy to very heavy rainfall and extremely heavy rain (over 20 cm) at isolated places over Uttarakhand; heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places over northwest Uttar Pradesh; and heavy rainfall at isolated places over Himachal Pradesh Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, rest parts of Uttar Pradesh, northeast Rajasthan and north Madhya Pradesh was recorded on Wednesday. Rainfall activity is very likely to decrease from Thursday with fairly widespread to widespread rainfall over Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand; and isolated to scattered rainfall over rest parts of northwest India. Heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places is also likely over Uttarakhand and heavy rainfall at isolated places over West Uttar Pradesh on Thursday.Due to southerly or southwesterly winds from Bay of Bengal over northeast India and cyclonic circulation over Assam at lower levels, fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy rainfall is very likely over sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim and northeastern states during May 19 to 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-likely-to-reduce-gradually-over-northwest-india-today-101621480420721.html
20-05-2021||India||Pinarayi Vijayan-led Kerala govt's swearing-in today, number of attendees restricted to 500||Pinarayi Vijayan-led Left Democratic Party (LDF) government in Kerala will be sworn in on Thursday following coronavirus disease (Covid-19) appropriate protocols. The ceremony will take place at a stadium in Thiruvananthapuram, which has the capacity to hold around 50,000 people. The government has invited 500 guests to attend the function, news agency PTI reported.On Wednesday, the Kerala High Court ruled that a physical swearing-in ceremony of the government will be permitted as long as the number of people participating are restricted to prevent the spread of Covid-19.Also Read: Kerala HC allows physical swearing in of Pinarayi government, says exercise utmost caution"Though states like West Bengal and Tamil Nadu, with more number of legislators in the Assembly have performed the swearing-in ceremony with lesser number, the government of Kerala, a forerunner in Covid-19 management, should restrict the number to the maximum to avoid the spread of Covid-19," the court said.The chief minister is expected to have a 21-member cabinet, out of which the CPI(M) will have 12 ministerial berths, CPI will have four and Kerala Congress (M), Janata Dal (S) and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) will have one each."The remaining two ministerial posts will be shared between other allies on an alternate basis, the first two and half years with Janadhipatya Kerala Congress and Indian National League after which Kerala Congress (B) and Congress (S) take possession of the chair respectively. CPM will hold the speaker post, CPI will be given deputy speaker post and chief whip post to Kerala Congress (M)," Communist Party of India Marxist (CPIM)'s acting state secretary and Left Democratic Front (LDF) convener A Vijayaraghavan told ANI.In the recently-concluded polls, the CPI(M)-led LDF government retained power in Kerala by winning 99 seats against 41 seats of Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) in the assembly polls. BJP could not win any seat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pinarayi-vijayan-led-kerala-govt-s-swearing-in-today-number-of-attendees-restricted-to-500-101621476599092.html
20-05-2021||India||US civil rights leader urges Biden To give 60 million Covid-19 vaccine doses to India||The whole world today is praying for India and its people, America's top civil rights leader Rev Jesse Jackson said on Wednesday, exuding confidence that the country of Mahatma Gandhi will win the battle against this pandemic.Chicago-based Civil rights leader Rev Jesse Jackson was in the city here to urge the Biden administration to give 60 million doses of the AstraZeneca vaccines to India. At a news conference here, the top American civil rights leader said that he has taken up the issue with both President Joe Biden and Vice President Kamala Karris."The whole world today prays for India," he said, expressing his solidarity with the people of India.The conference was addressed by several Indian American community leaders. In his remarks, Rev Jackson called for raising more funds for people of India and other countries being impacted by Covid-19."We should ask for more vaccination for the world. We need respirators, medicines and vaccines right now," he said.Eminent Indian-American community leader Dr Bharat Barai thanked Rev Jackson for his initiative. "Vaccination is the right thing to do and is the most important thing to do. This will not only save lives, but also prevent the economy from collapsing," he said.Sunil Singh, chairman, National Council of Asian Indian Associations, said India is in dire need of vaccines now. "We need vaccines now or never. India handled the first Covid attack last year very well. It has helped 80 countries across the world," he said."Now India is in need, and the entire world has come forward to help India. We need more vaccines, and we need them now. Please help us now," he said, adding that the community organizations in the Washington DC area have sent 130 oxygen concentrators.Entrepreneur Ravi Pulli, founder of US-India Solidarity Council, urged the Biden administration to provide more help to India as he appreciated the American support so far.In its most recent update, the Union Health Ministry placed the total number of Covid-19 cases in India at 2,54,96,330 and the death toll at 2,83,248. The ministry said there are 32,26,719 active cases, while 2,19,86,363 people have so far recovered from the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-civil-rights-leader-urges-biden-to-give-60-mn-covid-19-vaccine-doses-to-india-101621475432493.html
20-05-2021||India||Congress, BJP exchange barbs over 'toolkit'||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Sambit Patra on Wednesday named Saumya Varma as the author of the toolkit, a social media campaign playbook, that his party said on Tuesday was prepared by the Congress to defame Prime Minister Narendra Modi and to build a biased narrative over the Indian government’s handling of the second wave of Covid-19 , and the Central Vista Project.The Congress accused Patra of naming the author of a real document (from its metadata) to claim that she also authored the fake documents. It reiterated that the document on Central Vista was genuine, but that the BJP had concocted the other one on Covid-19 to defame the Congress. “...We made a research note on Central Vista for the party It’s genuine and fact-based. I tweeted yesterday [Tuesday] that ‘Covid-19 toolkit’ is forged and is a ‘Made in BJP’ product. Patra is showing metadata/author of a real document and attributing it to a fake,” said Rajeev Gowda, the head of Congress’s Research Department.Congress leaders said Varma is part of the Congress’s Research Cell and that she is not a worker or a member of the party but one of the many professionals engaged by it. She draws a monthly salary from the party, they added. “After 2019, the research team was truncated just as many other branches of the Congress. Varma and few others are running the research team,” one Congress leader said on condition of anonymity.The party refused to give her contact details. Gowda said: “You question me... not my staff.”BJP leaders on Tuesday cited and shared a document circulating on social media. The document was on a letterhead of the All India Congress Committee’s Research Department . The Congress has said this letterhead is forged. The document asked its readers to tarnish Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s image and “erode his popularity”. It suggested using phrases such as “Indian strain” and “Modi strain” for the variants of Covid-19 that were first detected in the country. The document also spoke about briefing foreign journalists over India’s mismanagement of the second Covid-19 wave.The Congress maintained the document on Covid is fake and has been concocted and lodged a complaint of forgery and cybercrime with the Delhi Police. It said in its complaint, filed by Gowda that BJP president JP Nadda, spokesperson Sambit Patra, and Union minister Smriti Irani, among others, “shared forged” documents on Twitter. The Delhi police, however, said they haven’t registered any complaint yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-bjp-exchange-barbs-over-toolkit-101621473996145.html
20-05-2021||India||Former NSG chief, who led the 26/11 ops, dies of Covid||HT Correspondent and PTIletters@hindustantimes.comNew Delhi Former National Security Guard (NSG) director general JK Dutt, who headed the force during the 2008 Mumbai terror attacks counter opration, died on Wednesday due to Covid-related complications, officials said. He was 72.Family members told news agency PTI that the retired IPS officer was admitted to the Medanta Hospital in Gurgaon on April 14 after his oxygen saturation started declining.“He passed away today at 3:30pm after suffering a massive cardiac arrest,” one of them said. Dutt is survived by his wife, a son, and a daughter.Jyoti Krishan Dutt, or JK, was a 1971-batch Indian Police Service (IPS) officer of the West Bengal cadre. He served as the DG of the NSG from August 2006 to February 2009, after which he retired from service.The NSG condoled his death through a message on Twitter.“He will always be remembered for his leadership during Op Black Tornado (Mumbai 2008). May Almighty rest his noble soul in eternal peace and give strength to his family to bear the loss,” the NSG said.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-nsg-chief-who-led-the-26-11-ops-dies-of-covid-101621474151963.html
20-05-2021||India||Rajasthan: Locust attack warning issued for Jaisalmer||Following a UN Food and Agricultural Organization (FAO) advisory, Rajasthan’s Jaisalmer district on Wednesday has sounded an alert for a possible locust attack, and directed authorities including the locust control department to plan, coordinate and execute a strategy to repulse it.On May 17, FAO said a few locust bands are likely to form in May in southwest Iran from where they may move east towards Pakistan.“Small adult groups to form in southwest Iran that may be supplemented by groups and small swarms arriving from Arabia, which will move east along the southern coast towards Pakistan,” the advisory said.The desert locust is the most destructive migratory pest in the world.Following the advisory, Jaisalmer district collector Ashish Modi directed all officials engaged in the locust control operation to ensure highest priority to containment operations.“If any official [is] found negligent or violating order, he will be personally [held] responsible,” Modi said while asking them to continue following the Covid-19 guidelines during the exercise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-locust-attack-warning-issued-for-jaisalmer-101621474218467.html
20-05-2021||India||Tamil Nadu govt to vaccinate 18-44 age group from today||The Tamil Nadu government will begin vaccinating the people in the age group of 18-44 for the coronavirus disease from Thursday. The drive will be launched by chief minister MK Stalin. Autorickshaw drivers, industry workers and the disabled will be be give priority, according to state health minister M Subramanian.From the ₹46 crore worth orders placed, Tamil Nadu received nine lakh doses of vaccines from the Centre, the health minister said. With this, the total number of vaccine doses from the Centre went up to 78 lakh, and of them, 69 lakh doses have already been administered.Also Read: Covid-19 cases in Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Assam may peak in next 2 weeks, govt-backed SUTRA model suggestsThe state government had deferred the vaccination drive for those in the age group of 18-44, which was initially supposed to begin on May 1, due to a shortage in vaccine supply. People above 45 years of age continued to be inoculated against the disease.“Instead of waiting till tomorrow (and disappointing people), I wish to clarify (now) that we are unsure when and how much out of 1.5 crore doses of vaccine sought by Tamil Nadu, will arrive,” state health secretary Dr J Radhakrishnan had told news agency PTI.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageTamil Nadu reported 34,875 fresh Covid-19 cases and 365 new deaths due to the virus on Wednesday. The new cases took the total caseload to 16,99,225 and the death toll was pushed to 18,734, according to the state health department.Meanwhile, CM Stalin will be reviewing measures taken by the government to prevent spread of coronavirus in Salem, Tirupur, Coimbatore, Madurai and Tiruchirappalli from May 20 to 21. This would be his first official tour as the chief minister after he took oath on May 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-govt-to-vaccinate-18-44-age-group-from-today-101621474159935.html
20-05-2021||India||Tiger reserve, 5 others make it to heritage site shortlist||Six Indian sites, under the care of Archaeological Survey of India, have been shortlisted by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) to be classified as world heritage sites, the Union culture ministry said on Wednesday.“Delighted and proud that @ASIGoI had submitted a proposal for India’s 9 places for inclusion in tentative list of UNESCO, where six sites have selected in Tentative Lists of @UNESCO World Heritage Site,” the ministry posted on Twitter.The six Indian sites include the Satpura Tiger Reserve, the Iconic Riverfront at Varanasi, Hire Benkal, a megalithic site, Maratha military architecture in Maharashtra, Bhedaghat-Lametaghat in Narmada Valley, Jabalpur, and the temples of Kanchipuram in Tamil Nadu.At present, India has 38 World Heritage properties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tiger-reserve-5-others-make-it-to-heritage-site-shortlist-101621474267733.html
20-05-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccine will be available for all by December, says BJP president Nadda||BJP president J P Nadda said on Wednesday the coronavirus vaccine will be available for all in the country by December.He also accused the Congress of spreading anarchy at the time of the pandemic.Nadda was reviewing the Covid-19 situation in Rajasthan in a virtual interaction with BJP state president Satish Poonia and party MPs from the state, a party statement said.Nadda said the prime minister had warned the chief ministers of the states in March itself and asked them to be prepared for the second wave of coronavirus."India developed two indigenous vaccines for the first time in just nine months, which have been administered to 18 crore Indians so far. By the end of December, the vaccine will be available to all and its calendar has been set," he said.Nadda said the Modi government at the Center has ensured the availability and supply of oxygen and medicines to all the states.He said that real face of the Congress has been exposes after “revelation of its tool kit''.Even at the time of the pandemic, the Congress is trying to spread anarchy in the country and is working to destroy the morale of the people by spreading confusion among them, he alleged.Besides Poonia, Union ministers Arjunram Meghwal, Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, Kailash Chaudhary, MPs P P Chaudhary, Narendra Kumar, Manoj Rajoria, Jaskaur Meena, Swami Sumedhanand and Ranjita Koli joined the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccine-will-be-available-for-all-by-december-says-bjp-president-nadda-101621473602340.html
20-05-2021||India||‘Arabian Sea to get more severe cyclones’: Expert||One of the world’s top experts on cyclones, and the first to connect the climate crisis with an increased frequency of cyclones in the Arabian Sea, Hiroyuki Murakami, a climate scientist at the US National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’ Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory, spoke to Hindustan Times about Cyclone Tauktae and how India should prepare for such disasters in the future. Edited excerpts:Were you tracking the trajectory of Tauktae? What are your thoughts on its features and impact?Cyclone Tauktae propagated north westward along the western coast of India. In general, the right front quadrant of a storm is an area of strongest wind speed of tropical cyclones. The storm track of Cyclone Tauktae was actually very dangerous for people living on the west coast of India due to strong wind, storm surge, and heavy rainfall.Are weather models able to capture rapid intensification of cyclones over Arabian Sea?Some of the recent weather and climate prediction models capture rapid intensification of cyclones. However, it is still challenging to predict the exact timing of rapid intensification due to the complex nature of rapid intensification.What causes cyclones to suddenly gain such energy over a short period of time? How does the climate crisis influence development and intensification of cyclones over Arabian Sea?To reach such high intensity, multiple conditions of both atmosphere and ocean must be favourable. For example, an abnormally warm surface ocean can fuel a storm. Moreover, a sufficiently thick layer of warm water below the surface ocean is required as a necessary condition for intensification. The wind field in the atmosphere is also an important factor for storm intensification.Is the Arabian Sea warming faster than Bay of Bengal and does that mean more severe cyclones over the west coast of India in coming years?Climate models commonly project warmer surface ocean in the Arabian Sea than in the Bay of Bengal due to increased emission of green-house gases. This would in turn lead to increased frequency of severe cyclones in the Arabian Sea more than in the Bay of Bengal in the future.Is it normal for such severe cyclones to develop during the pre-monsoon season in May over Arabian Sea?It is rare, I think. Tauktae took only 2 days from tropical depression (<17 m/s) to very severe cyclonic storm (VSCS, >32 m/s). The recent case for rapid intensification over the Arabian Sea was Cyclone Vayu in 2019 that took only 36 hours to develop into a VSCS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arabian-sea-to-get-more-severe-cyclones-expert-101621471910731.html
20-05-2021||India||IMD warns of cyclone at east coast||Cyclone Yaas is likely to form over the Bay of Bengal around May 25, and move north-westwards, reaching West Bengal and the Odisha coast on May 26 evening, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Wednesday.Experts said that atmospheric and oceanic conditions were favourable for persistent cloud cover over the Andaman Sea and the adjoining areas of east-central and southeast Bay of Bengal, where a low-pressure area is likely to form around May 22. In the next 72 hours, it is likely to intensify gradually into a cyclonic storm. “We cannot rule out an Amphan-like intensification. The only good thing is that models as of now are showing that the system is moving very fast over the sea. Its intensification will be restricted if its time over sea is less,” said Sunitha Devi who tracks cyclones at IMD. But if there is slow movement, it could intensify into a “very severe” or a higher category cyclone, she added.M Rajeevan, secretary, ministry of earth sciences, said the models indicate that the cyclone may cross the West Bengal and Odisha coasts. Devi anticipated a broader area of impact between West Bengal, Bangladesh, and Odisha.“The sea surface temperature has been above normal by 1-2 degrees Celsius in early May both over the Arabian Sea and the Bay of Bengal, making conditions strongly favourable for the development of cyclonic systems,” said Pushpendra Johari, senior vice president, sustainability, RMSI, a global disaster risk management firm.IMD has forecast light to moderate rain in the Bay of Bengal region on May 22 and 23, with heavy to very heavy showers at isolated places over Andaman and Nicobar Islands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-warns-of-cyclone-at-east-coast-101621471068005.html
20-05-2021||India||PM Modi reviews Tauktae damage in Gujarat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday approved assistance of ₹1,000 crore for “immediate relief activities” in Gujarat after conducting an aerial survey of areas hit by Cyclone Tauktae in the state, an official release said.He also announced ex gratia compensation of ₹2 lakh for the next of kin of the deceased and ₹50,000 to the seriously injured in the cyclone across Kerala, Karnataka, Goa, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan and the Union Territories of Daman and Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli, the Press Information Bureau (PIB) release said.“Centre is working closely with the affected state governments in the wake of the situation post the cyclone. Immediate financial assistance for these states would also be given after the respective state governments would share their assessments with the Centre,” the PM said after a meeting in Ahmedabad, the statement said.The announcement was made after Modi held a review meeting with Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani and top officials to assess the damage caused by the cyclone. Gujarat will get additional assistance after an inter-ministerial team visits the affected areas and submits its assessment, the release said.After arrival at the Bhavnagar airport, Modi, accompanied by Rupani, boarded a helicopter and conducted an aerial survey of affected areas in Gujarat and adjoining Diu. The cyclone, which made landfall between Diu and Una town of Gir-Somnath district on Monday after barrelling along India’s west coast, left a trail of devastation.Around 45 people lost their lives to cyclone-related incidents in Gujarat.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-reviews-tauktae-damage-in-gujarat-101621470749973.html
20-05-2021||India||Vaccines to all adults by end of year: Health minister Harsh Vardhan||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan Wednesday said India will have procured 267 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses by the end of this year, and will be in a position to inoculate at least all of its adult population, according to an official statement.The minister said that 51 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses will be made available by July and 216 crore more between August and December. He urged states to ensure that the healthcare and frontline workers are fully vaccinated, as they form the vulnerable categories.Interacting with the health ministers and principal secretaries/ additional chief secretaries of West Bengal and eight northeast states, Vardhan said, "Between August to December 2021, India will have procured 216 crore vaccine doses while, by July this year, 51 crore doses will be procured."He said that by the end of the year, the country will be in a position to vaccinate at least all of its adult population, according to the health ministry statement.West Bengal and the eight states of the North-eastern region are depicting a higher growth rate in the number of daily cases, high mortality and increasing positivity rate, the statement said.Pointing out the new emerging trend in the country, Vardhan highlighted that now smaller states are showing an upward trend in terms of number of infections and there is a need to be cautious about this.Speaking of the government's efforts towards fighting coronavirus, Vardhan said that from having just one Covid testing laboratory at the start of the pandemic, there are over 2000 across the country now."We have increased our capacity to test 25 lakh people daily. Yesterday, India achieved a historical first by testing the highest number of over 20 lakh people in a single day. This is a global record too," he was quoted as saying in the statement.He stressed on the continued need to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour along with renewed and stringent focus on containment measures.Underscoring the critical importance of vaccination drive, the minister highlighted that India has achieved another landmark by crossing 18 crore doses recently.He also pointed out that more than one crore doses are still in stock with the state governments.Highlighting the critical challenges faced by the NE states and West Bengal, Vardhan said in Mizoram, all districts are showing a rise in new cases.Nagaland has shown a sharp increase in daily cases (15-20 per day to 300 per day) and weekly positivity rate (1 per cent to 34 per cent); there is a need to strengthen testing facilities in peri-urban and rural areas, the statement said.In Assam, Kamrup (Metropolitan) is contributing almost 45 per cent of the daily new cases; while in Meghalaya, East Khasi Hills and Righboi are reporting sharp increases in daily cases. Manipur's recovery rate of 78 per cent and case fatality rate (CFR) of more than 1 per cent was highlighted as a matter of concern, it underlined.Sikkim was advised to strengthen community surveillance and ensure strict monitoring of home quarantine to address its high CFR, the statement said.In Arunachal Pradesh, ICU occupancy is almost 22.5 per cent while capital complex and Changlang districts are reporting maximum cases. All districts of West Bengal are showing a steep increase in positivity rate.Kolkata, North 24 Parganas, South 24 Parganas, Howrah and Nadia were flagged as districts of concern.In Tripura, there has been a steep rise in positivity from 1.3 per cent in April to around 8.7 per cent now. West Tripura, Unakoti, South Tripura were flagged as districts of concern, according to the statement.He asked the states to focus on increasing testing in a timely manner along with upgrading the health infrastructure.Minister of State for Health Ashwini Kumar Choubey reiterated that testing should be increased, particularly RT-PCR one. The Centre is also assisting states on medicines for Black Fungus and oxygen, he said. "We have to maintain Covid protocol and we will win this war against Covid."Dr Sujeet K Singh, Director, NCDC, presented an overview of the Covid trajectory in the states and suggested ramping up of RAT testing and vaccination in rural areas.Vikash Sheel, Additional Secretary (Health) presented on the optimal and judicious use of vaccine doses. All the states, barring Tripura, has had a lower coverage of HCW/FLW workers than the National average (90% and 82% respectively), the statement said.In the 45 plus category, Meghalaya (28%), Manipur (26%), West Bengal (25%), Assam (23%), Nagaland (22%) had a lower coverage than the national average (32 per cent), the statement stated.States were advised to ensure complete utilisation of available vaccination slots for 45+ age-group/HCW.State administrators were advised to reduce vaccine wastage. Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya and Nagaland had clocked substantial wastage and were advised to retrain their staff to achieve minimum wastage, the statement said.Vardhan assured the states of all support from the Centre in augmenting their vaccine drive.Biplab Kumar Deb, the Chief Minister and Health Minister of Tripura; Keshab Mahanta, the Health Minister of Assam; AK Hek, the Health Minister, Meghalaya,; Lalpoklakpam Jayantakumar Singh, the Health Minister of Manipur; Dr R Lalthangliana, the Health Minister of Mizoram; AloLibang, the Health Minister of Arunachal Pradesh; PangnyuPhom, the Health Minister (Nagaland) and Dr Mani Kumar Sharma, the Health Minister (Sikkim) were present virtually in this meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccines-to-all-adults-by-end-of-year-health-minister-harsh-vardhan-101621469939009.html
20-05-2021||India||Govt raises fertiliser subsidy by ₹14,775 crore as global rates soar||The Union government on Wednesday raised the subsidy on fertilisers ahead of the kharif or summer sown season by ₹14,775 crore to cushion prices following a sharp increase in international rates that have prompted domestic fertiliser firms to raise prices.Prices of some farm chemicals have risen sharply on account of costlier imports amid estimates that a normal monsoon would increase demand this year.The Union government hiked the subsidy on di-ammonium Phosphate (DAP), a key crop nutrient, by nearly 140%, from ₹500 a bag to ₹1200.“Thus, despite the rise in international market prices of DAP, it has been decided to continue selling it at the older price of Rs.1200 and the central government has decided to bear all the burden of price hike,” an official statement said.On May 17, HT had reported that the Centre was considering an increase in fertiliser subsidy following a May 13 meeting of Union fertilizer minister Sadananda Gowda, home minister Amit Shah, finance minister Nirmala Sithraman and agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar.International prices of raw materials for some key crop nutrients, such as di-ammonium Phosphate (DAP) and 22 grades of phosphatic and pottassic (P&K) category of fertilisers, have seen a jump of up to 70%.Millions of farmers depend on crop nutrients during the June-to September monsoon season to raise a variety of summer crops, including paddy, pulses, gram, onions and coarse cereals etc. The 2021-22 budget estimate for fertiliser subsidy is ₹80,000 crore.The consumption of fertilisers is also expected to be higher this year. “We expect a nearly 10% increase in fertiliser demand,” an official of the agriculture ministry said, requesting not to be named.Fertiliser demand could be around 35 million tonne during the upcoming summer-sown season, up from 32 million tonne last year.A key reason for an anticipated higher demand has been the forecast of a normal 2021 monsoon, the third straight year of optimal rains. The India Meteorological Department on April 16 forecast that rainfall during the June-to-September monsoon season to be 98%. Rainfall between 94-106% is considered “normal”.The government pays its subsidy to fertiliser companies, who sell it at a discount to farmers through a system called nutrient-based subsidy regime. The fertilizer subsidy is paid to manufacturers based on sales data generated through point of sale (PoS) devices by retail sellers.“The increase in international prices and, simultaneously, higher anticipated demand during the kharif season would have put pressure on farmers as well manufacturers. It could have led to a demand-supply mismatch. The subsidy will ensure adequate availability of DAP, whose consumption is generally more during kharif,” said Abhishek Agrawal of Comtrade, a commodities trading firm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-raises-fertilizer-subsidy-by-rs-14-775-crore-as-global-rates-soar-101621455551588.html
20-05-2021||India||Tirupati LS bypoll result sinks BJP hopes to emerge as alternative to YSR Congress||Hyderabad The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s hopes to emerge as a potential alternative to the ruling YSR Congress party (YSRCP) in Andhra Pradesh and replace the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) as the principal opposition were completely dashed off following the recent by-election to Tirupati parliamentary seat. The BJP finished a poor third in the by-election with its candidate K Ratna Prabha, retired IAS officer and former chief secretary of Karnataka, securing only 57,080 votes, which was just 5.17 per cent of the total number of 11.05 lakh votes polled. The seat was won by YSRCP candidate Dr M Gurumurthy, who got 6.26 lakh votes, defeating his nearest rival Panabaka Lakshmi of TDP by over 2.70 lakh votes. The BJP, which could not win a single assembly and Lok Sabha seat in the 2019 general elections in Andhra Pradesh after severing its ties with former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu-led TDP a year before, was hoping to emerge as a big force because of the miserable show put up by the latter, which ended up with just 23 assembly seats and three MP seats. The saffron party saw a chance to replace the TDP as a principal opposition after it felt that Naidu may not be in a position to put up a fight against Jagan Mohan Reddy’s YSRCP by 2024. The party quickly forged an alliance with Jana Sena Party floated by popular actor Pawan Kalyan, who has a considerable hold in the Kapu community which accounts for 15.2 per cent of the total population in the state. The BJP also played its traditional brand of politics by highlighting the attacks on Hindu temples and burning of chariot of the famed Antarvedi temple in East Godavari, besides launching a high-decibel campaign against alleged promotion of Christianity by the Jagan government. “But the Tirupati by-election has proved that its narrative doesn’t get acceptance in Andhra. Despite the campaign by top BJP leaders, including national president J P Nadda, the party was rejected even in Tirupati, the most revered place for the Hindus,” political analyst Suresh Dharur said. According to Dharur, the TDP is still a major force to reckon with in Andhra despite its poor show in the last elections. “It is a 40-year-old party with a vast cadre network and strong leadership in Naidu. It has every chance to bounce back by the next elections. So, when there are two strong regional parties like YSRCP and the TDP, there is hardly any space for a national party like the BJP, as is the case in Tamil Nadu,” he said. Another political analyst from Visakhapatnam, Mallu Rajesh, said the BJP was banking too much on the charisma of Kalyan, instead of building up its own base in the state. “Pawan Kalyan has a lot of craze among the youth but it is not enough for the BJP-Jana Sena combine to emerge as a strong political force. Neither of the two parties have any organisational structure in Andhra, unlike the TDP. So, they will always remain a poor and distant third,” Rajesh said. Soon after the Tirupati by-election, the BJP and Jana Sena leaders slipped into silent mode. While Kalyan, who returned to acting in films after two years, has kept himself busy with scripts for his forthcoming projects, BJP leaders have stopped making any political statements, even on the Covid-19 situation in the state. “There has not been any attempt by our party’s Andhra unit president Somu Veerraju to hold any internal meeting to review the Tirupati by-poll outcome and come out with an action plan. No meeting was held with Jana Sena to discuss the post-poll strategies and strengthen the alliance,” a BJP leader said on condition of anonymity. The leader added that there was nothing much for party leaders to criticise the YSRCP at this stage, as chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy has been maintaining friendly relations with the Narendra Modi government at the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tirupati-ls-bypoll-result-sinks-bjp-hopes-to-emerge-as-alternative-to-ysrcongress-101621453536083.html
20-05-2021||India||K’taka receives 200k Covishield doses||Bengaluru The Karnataka government on Wednesday said that it has received around 200,000 doses of vaccines from Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) as part of its purchase order for 20 million doses.“Karnataka received 2,00,000 doses of Covishied today as part of the order placed by the state govt. So far state has received 10,94,000 doses (9,50,000 Covishield and 1,44,000 Covaxin) as part of direct procurement from manufacturers in addition to 1,11,24,470 doses received from GoI,” K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s minister for health, family welfare and medical education tweeted.The state government has so far placed orders for at least 30 million doses of vaccines from both SII and Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech that produces Covaxin.But late delivery of vaccines owing to demands from across the country, forced Karnataka to suspend its vaccination drive of the first dose for both persons above 45 years of age as well as those who fall in between the 18-44 category.The shortage of vaccines has brought down the daily inoculations to 65,181 on Tuesday (till 3.30 pm) that takes the total to 11,348,708. However, only 25,30,724 persons have received both doses which accounts for less than 4% of the state’s entire population, estimated at 60.5 million.Karnataka remains one of the most impacted regions in the country as cases continue to surge in most places even though it has shown signs of letting up in Bengaluru, which has the highest number of active cases in India.Though the decline raises hopes of some reprieve for the state, testing has dropped dramatically, which experts and others attributed as the cause for the lower number of new infections.“The second way forward for the state is that everyone in Karnataka should be administered the vaccines at the earliest. The government is striving towards ensuring 100% coverage to the entire population by October or November end,” Sudhakar said in Bengaluru on Wednesday.He said that the centre has so far provided the state with 1,11,26,340 doses. Of the purchases made directly by the state government, it has so far received 9.50 lakhs of covishield and 144,170 doses of Covaxin.He said that the centre and its own purchases takes the total doses received by the state to 12220510 so far.“We are looking to import vaccines from abroad and we are talking to Bharat Biotech and they have assured to provide the same,” the minister added.He added that even Russia-developed Sputnik will have a manufacturing plant in Karnataka which raises hopes of completing the vaccination drive to all its residents “before the entire country”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ktaka-receives-200k-covishield-doses-101621453476039.html
20-05-2021||India||Pharmaceuticals, beauty products add to pollution in Bengaluru’s water bodies: Study||Bengaluru: A new research paper that studies the impact of pharmaceutical and personal care products released into Bengaluru’s water bodies states that the risk of side effects to aquatic life and humans, who consume it indirectly, are increasing. The study, conducted between the monsoon period in October 2018 and pre-monsoon period in February 2019, across Arkavathi River in Bengaluru establishes high level of harmful content entering surface water streams. “ In the last few decades pharmaceuticals and personal care products (PPCPs) have been responsible for water pollution with adverse effects on the aquatic biota because of their pseudo-persistence and bioaccumulation. Though detected at low concentrations in natural waters, they have the potential to cause harm to the ecological and human health especially in diverse trophic levels of aquatic ecosystems,” according to the research paper. PPCPs include diverse classes like parabens, antibiotics, UV-filters, plasticizers, antibacterial and analgesics. With a population of over 12 million, Bengaluru is among the most populous cities in the country. Its technology boom in the early 2000’s has attracted migrant workers--both white and blue--from across the country and the world which has led to rapid and unplanned expansion of the city. During this period, Bengaluru has witnessed an exponential increase in construction to accommodate the large migrant population, leading to rapid erosion of natural water bodies like lakes, green cover and its unplanned growth has also led to inefficient garbage and wastewater treatment. “There is disposal of such products directly Arkavathi and Vrishabhavathi, even though it does not join surface water, sedimentations and soil is likely to be impacted. Before wastewater is released, it should be treated first,” Gopal Chikmagalur Malappa, the lead author of the paper, told Hindustan Times. Arkavathi is a tributary of Cauvery River and flows for a length of 193 kms and the basin area is around 4253 square kilometers, according to the study. The rapid encroachment of lakes in Bengaluru, which at one point exceeded 250 in numbers, has left the city to quench its thirst by dipping into the Cauvery river that flows at least 100 kms away, depriving other districts of this precious resource and deflecting it to India’s IT capital. “The spatial abundance of PPCPs at the river’s midstream confirms the continuous discharge of wastewater from highly populated metropolitan and industrial areas through Byramangala reservoir into the river stream. Temporally, in the post-monsoon season, sulfamethoxazole, chloramphenicol, and diclofenac increased on account of undiluted sewage and their polar nature preventing its absorption into sediments. On the other hand there was a decrease in the concentrations of propylparaben, ibuprofen, BP1, oxybenzone, BPA and triclosan, in the post-monsoon, due to its hydrophobic nature and tendency to precipitate with the particulates/ sediments/ soil,” the paper states. According to the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB), over 708 kilometers of seven major rivers and its tributaries have levels of contamination ranging from Class ‘B’ or waters used for organised outdoor bathing all the way to “D” or waters to maintain aquatic life. Of the 98 water quality monitoring stations, at least 42 have reported serious, if not dangerous, levels of pollution, data shows. Water contamination is not unique to Karnataka as similar studies across the country have revealed alarming results of pollution in some of India’s biggest rivers including the Ganga. Untreated water, industrial effluent and other polluting elements are often let into these water bodies, which increases the presence of harmful pollutants and seeps into groundwater, food crops, animals and even humans when they consume the same. Bengaluru requires around 1400 million litres per day to quench its thirst and wastewater recycling infrastructure has a capacity of around half of that, and actual recycled water is around 500 mld (million litres per day), according to official data. A large portion of used water, including those with soaps, detergents and other cleaning products is let out in drains that in turn makes its way into other water bodies like rivers and lakes. Discharge of pharmaceuticals happens through humans. The anti-inflammatory drug ibuprofen was determined at comparatively (p = 0.083) higher concentrations (1835 ng/L) compared to other target PPCPs, according to the study, which further adds that this could be due to the large volume of consumption as it is easily available over the counter. A report by the KSPCB in 2020 states that none of the water in any of the lakes in Bengaluru are fit for drinking even though fish from these lakes are often consumed by locals. Bellandur lake, located in the eastern part of Bengaluru has made global headlines for its toxic content and foam that often catches fire largely due to the sewage, metal and other harmful contents within the lake. Though the release of PPCPs are not at alarming levels, the continuous consumption of these products--directly and indirectly--may lead to developing side-effects, the paper states. “How good the treatment in these (wastewater) plants is important. Because these pharmaceuticals are not very easy to treat. Conventional treatment will not work,” K Balakrishna, the co-author of the paper and faculty member of the department of Geology at Manipal Institute of Technology said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pharmaceuticals-beauty-products-add-to-pollution-in-bengaluru-s-water-bodies-study-101621453356007.html
20-05-2021||India||BSY extends ₹1,250 crore Covid relief||Bengaluru: Karnataka chief minister B S Yediyurappa on Wednesday announced a financial relief package of ₹1,250 crore for certain sections of people affected economically by the Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown. The CM specified that the beneficiaries will be farmers, workers from the unorganised sector, autorickshaw and taxi drivers and street vendors among others. The package has come weeks after the government went back on its earlier decision not to announce a lockdown in the state on account of its own unpreparedness despite warnings of a second wave by a government-appointed technical advisory committee in November. The Yediyurappa government was under tremendous pressure from the Opposition to announce a relief package, with Congress demanding ₹10,000 for every EWS (economically weaker section) household hit hard by the lockdown, still in effect until May 24. However, a statement by the chief minister’s office shows that the package is worth ₹1,111.82 crore, less than the announced figure. “Even when our financial situation is not very good, we are telling the people that we are there with them,” the CM explained at the press conference while announcing the package. Last year too, CM Yediyurappa had announced a financial package of ₹1,610 crore. But multiple sources, including beneficiaries, had said that it did little to compensate for the loss of income and livelihood. With 15 droughts in the last two decades and four major floods during this period, the large farming population in Karnataka now has fewer sources of income. The recent devastation left behind by cyclone Tauktae has only added to the pre-existing woes of the people. So far, no separate relief package has been announced for those hit by the cyclone. Former chief minister and Congress leader, Siddaramaiah, claimed that CM Yediyurappa had announced total relief to the tune of ₹2,100 crore last year, but the money wasn’t spent, and less than 50% of the targeted beneficiaries received any help. Karnataka’s health situation has steadily deteriorated with Covid cases going up and the government hasn’t been able to do much about it on its own. While Bengaluru, which accounted for almost 60% of the cases and fatalities, has seen a sharp decline in new infections, data has also shown fewer tests that experts say explain why there are fewer cases. The financial package involves a one-time payment of ₹10,000 to about 20,000 flower growers and 69,000 farmers who produce fruit and vegetables costing the exchequer a total of around ₹81.73 crore. Relief ranging from ₹2,000 to 3,000 will be provided to around 2.10 lakh licensed autorickshaw, taxi and maxi cab drivers, and around 3.04 lakh people working as barbers, dhobis, hamalis (porters), ragpickers, potters, goldsmiths, mechanics, and domestic workers. Around 2.20 lakh street vendors would get around ₹2,000 each, totalling ₹44 crore, while 16,095 artists and artist groups would receive ₹3,000 each, costing the state exchequer ₹4.85 crore. Registered construction workers would get ₹3,000 from the welfare fund that would entail a total relief of ₹494 crore.The chief minister also extended the period for short, medium, and long-term loans availed by around 4.25 lakh farmers and others by three months that would cost the government ₹134.38 crore in interest payment. The chief minister also said that the state is extending the relief given by the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana by giving an additional 30 lakh people 5kg rice that would in total benefit around 4.34 crore people or 1.26 crore ration card holders.Even those who do not have APL (above poverty line) or BPL (below poverty line) cards will receive relief, but those with BPL cards will receive 10kg food grains for May and June and those with APL cards will receive the same amount of food grains at ₹15 per kilo. Yediyurappa said that his government was spending around ₹25 crore to provide free food to around 6 lakh people daily through Indira Canteens. But the Opposition leaders claimed that the package is too inadequate. Former chief minister and Janata Dal (Secular) leader H D Kumaraswamy gave the example of Kerala to drive home this point. “Kerala announced a lockdown in March and announced a package of ₹20,000 crore. Kerala is a small state compared to Karnataka. Is ₹1,200 crore any compensation for Karnataka?” Kumaraswamy said, adding that he had asked for a lockdown in March, but the government paid no heed to it. The Congress repeated its demand for ₹10,000 for all EWS households and said that the money should be handed over to the panchayats. “The government should conduct a survey on how many people have lost jobs. This is not a government that thinks about the poor. Since we insisted on a package, they have announced it. But it has completely failed,” said D K Shivakumar, the president of Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsy-extends-1-250-crore-covid-relief-101621452875905.html
20-05-2021||India||Respect sentiments but the party has taken decision: Kerala CM on Shailaja move||Amid growing criticism over dropping former health minister KK Shailaja’s name from the new cabinet, the Kerala chief minister and Left Democratic Front (LDF) chief Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday defended the decision as a “collective one” by his party and said there was no plan to dilute it .A day before the swearing in of the new cabinet, the CM allocated portfolios to his. Journalist-turned- politician Veena George (44) will be the new health minister replacing the high-profile K K Shailaja.Addressing the reporters in the state capital, the chief minister said that the party and government respect popular sentiment raised in this regard. Many left camp followers, cine artists, writers and students took to social media in a big way to vent their anger criticising the decision to drop health minister K K Shailaja who was the face of the fight against Covid-19 in the state.“We respect their sentiments. But the party has taken a decision much early to induct new faces. It can’t give exemptions to some. It was a collective decision. All ministers of the outgoing government worked well and it reflected in the election also,” he said, adding there was on plan to change the decision.When asked even central leaders of the party expressed serious reservation over Shailaja’s exclusion the CM said he was not aware of it.To a question whether Shailaja deserved an exemption in view of the pandemic situation the he said many of the outgoing ministers deserved such exemptions but the party took a firm decision on this. “You may ask why the CM got exemption then. It was also the decision of the party... there is no room for individual decision it is a collective one. Many are giving an interpretation that I was behind the move but it is not right,” he said adding ongoing fight against pandemic will not to be weakened by change in the ministry.“Our fight against the pandemic will continue with renewed vigour,” he said.Meanwhile the state reported 32,763 cases after testing 1.40,545 persons with a test positivity rate of 23.31per cent. It also reported 112 deaths, highest since the outbreak began taking total fatalities to 6724. Active caseload in the state is 3,31,860. The CM said the state has reported 15 black fungus cases so far. He also said there is a significant drop in the cases after triple lockdown in four districts and normal shutdown in rest of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/respect-sentiments-but-the-party-has-taken-decision-kerala-cm-on-shailaja-move-101621452515838.html
20-05-2021||India||Take vaccine 3 months after Covid recovery: Centre||People who have had a Covid-19 infection must wait for three months before they take a coronavirus vaccine – whether their first or their second dose – the Union health ministry said on Wednesday, while also clearing the way for mothers who breastfeed their children to take the shots.The advisory was issued following recommendations from an expert panel, and comes days after the Union government said people should wait 12-16 weeks before they take their second doses in case the first was of the Covishield vaccine.“The National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) has shared fresh recommendations regarding Covid-19 vaccination with the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. These recommendations have been based on the evolving situation of the Covid-19 pandemic and emerging global scientific evidence and experience,” said Union health ministry in a statement, adding that the suggestions had been accepted and communicated to states.The advisory also recommends that there should be no screening of a vaccine recipient by rapid antigen test (RAT) prior to vaccination.Addressing concerns regarding blood donation, the health ministry has clarified that an individual can donate blood 14 days after they receive a Covid-19 vaccine, or if they have tested negative through an RT-PCR test if they were suffering from the viral disease.The authorities are yet to take a decision on whether pregnant women can be given the coronavirus vaccines. The matter is ‘under discussion and further deliberation by the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunization (NTAGI)’ is underway, the government said.The three-month embargo announced on vaccination for those that had the disease is not commonly followed elsewhere. According to UK’s Covid-19 vaccination Green Book, people should take their shots as soon as all of their symptoms have recovered, which has also been recommended by the United States’s Centers of Disease Control (CDC). The American agency, however, urges people to wait for 90 days in case they received treatment with monoclonal antibodies or plasma therapy.States in India have been advised to ensure effective dissemination of the information to service provides as well as the general public through use of all channels of information and communication in the local languages. States have also been advised to undertake training of the vaccination staff at all levels.“The Union Health Ministry has written to States and UTs to direct the concerned officials to take note of these recommendations and undertake necessary action for their effective implementation,” the statement further read.India is grappling with a shortage of doses, with many states saying they are fast running out of stocks. The expanded dosing schedule is likely to help address some of the shortage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/take-vaccine-3-months-after-covid-recovery-centre-101621452276410.html
20-05-2021||India||Tamil Nadu CM Stalin grants Rajiv Gandhi case convict 30-day parole||Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin on Wednesday granted a 30-day ordinary leave or parole to AG Perarivalan, one of the convicts in the assassination of former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi who is serving a life-term in the Puzhal Central Prison in Chennai.Considering Perarvialan’s mother Arputham Ammal’s plea, the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) chief granted him parole on medical grounds according to the provision in the Tamil Nadu prisons manual.Ammal had submitted a petition to Stalin on May 10 stating that the spread of the coronavirus inside the prison put her son at higher risk as he had several health issues.“After carefully reviewing D Aruputham Ammal’s petition, chief minister MK Stalin has ordered 30-day ordinary leave for A G Perarivalan,” the order stated.Soon after the order, Ammal thanked Stalin on Twitter. “Thanks to CM Stalin for considering a mother’s feelings and understanding the health of Perarivalan and taking immediate action,” she said in Tamil.After completing prison formalities, Perarivalan would be allowed parole.Last year, the Madras high court had granted Perarivalan 30-day parole and the Supreme Court in November had extended it by a week due to his ailing health.Perarivalan is among the seven convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assasination case. The former PM was assassinated on May 21, 1991, at Sriperumbudur by a woman suicide bomber belonging to the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE). Ammal has been fighting for the release of her son and all other convicts for decades, which has been supported by several groups in the state, including political parties such as Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK) and Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (MDMK) -- who are also allies of the DMK-led government. His release has been opposed by the state Congress unit even as the Gandhi family has said that they have forgiven the convicts.In 2018, the Tamil Nadu cabinet unanimously passed a resolution for the release of all seven convicts and sent it to governor Banwarilal Purohit. Three years later, he declined to take a decision and said it was the President who was the competent authority to do so.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stalin-grants-rajiv-gandhi-case-convict-30-day-parole-101621452156350.html
20-05-2021||India||Delhi HC refuses to stay Covaxin trial among children||The Delhi high court on Wednesday refused to stay the clinical trial of Covaxin for children, and sought a response from the Centre and the vaccine maker on a plea challenging the nod given by government authorities.The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), on May 13, gave permission for the vaccine -- developed by Bharat Biotech and the Indian Council of Medical Research -- to be used in Phase 2 and Phase 3 trials in children between the ages of 2 and 18. The recommendation that this be allowed was made by the subject expert committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation’s (CDSCO).The move came as experts in India have underlined the need to vaccinate people below the age of 18 since there cannot be a proper opening up until the entire population is protected.“No,” a bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh said as lawyer-petitioner Sanjeev Kumar sought a stay on the notification. His plea seeks directions to quash the May 13 order, anticipating adverse effects.The bench issued notices to the DCGI, and the ministries of health and woman & child development, CDSCO, and Bharat Biotech, seeking their stand on the petition. The matter will be next heard on July 15US regulators last week gave emergency use authorisation to Pfizer-BioNTech’s Covid-19 vaccine for children aged between 12 and 15. The vaccine was already being administrated to those above 16. Canada became the first country in the world to approve Pfizer’s Covid-19 vaccine for ages as young as 12 on May 5.According to the Union health ministry, the trial will be conducted on 525 healthy volunteers, and the vaccine will be administered in two doses 28 days apart, Kumar’s plea said.Kumar contended that there may be adverse “mental and health effects” on children due to the trials. He also argued that children could not be termed as “volunteers” because as they are not capable of understanding the consequences of the trials.“In the present case, the subject matter of clinical trials being minors (even toddlers who - for the reason of their age only - are not capable of even speaking and understanding languages in a proper manner) cannot be supposed to volunteer for the aforesaid clinical testing,” the petition stated.The plea sought criminal prosecution of the persons involved in such trials or authorised to conduct them, in the event of death or “loss of peaceful and pleasant enjoyment of life” of any of the minors in the trial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-refuses-to-stay-covaxin-trial-among-children-101621452097056.html
20-05-2021||India||'No option but to jump into the sea': Survivors recount harrowing escape||At 12.37pm on Monday afternoon, barge P305 started taking in water from the Arabian Sea.Cyclone Tauktae was intensifying and winds gusting up to 200 kmph had already snapped the barge’s 12 anchors the previous night, pushing the barge 50km farther into sea from its fixed position near an oil rig in the Heera fields.All 261 people on board the mega structure – marine crew, labourers and engineers – rushed to the deck, sensing danger. Indrajeet Sharma, 33, was one of them.By 2pm, water was gushing into the barge and it was tilting dangerously into the sea. As the barge sank slowly, Sharma and others faced two tough options: Jump into the stormy waters or take their chances with the submerging structure. By 6pm, the choice was clear.“I had no other option except jumping into the sea to save my life,” said Sharma, a senior engineer who had been working on the barge since last May. The barge finally sank at 7pm.For the next eight hours, Sharma and five or six of his colleagues from the barge bobbed up and down in their life jackets as the storm passed and the sea calmed down.Also Read| 49 missing from sunken barge as navy grapples with rescue effortsMany, like his colleague Faraz Nadkar, held hands with people they knew from the barge, and spoke about their families and loved ones. “We decided that if we would die, we’d die together,” said Nadkar, a 22-year-old architect who joined the barge a few months ago.They were finally picked up by navy rescue ships early Tuesday morning .“After spending 8 hours in the water, I was rescued by INS Kochi at 2am on Tuesday. I could not open my eyes for almost 24 hours as I spent several hours in the salty water,” he said.Nadkar was rescued four hours later. “We spent around 12 hours in the water and for most of the time we spoke of our families,” he said.P305 was one of three barges that were carried adrift by Tauktae, the most powerful storm to hit Mumbai in two decades, and has become the focal point of rescue operations. On Tuesday, rescuers pulled out 26 bodies and 49 people still missing.After two days of search and rescue operations, Indian Naval Ship (INS) Kochi returned to Tiger Gate in Mumbai harbour on Wednesday morning with 125 survivors of barge P305.On Monday morning, the Indian Navy received a distress call from P305 and immediately dispatched three ships -- INS Kochi, Talwar and Kolkata -- to rescue the people, even as inclement weather made the search and rescue operations difficult.Also Read| ‘Arabian Sea to get more severe cyclones’: ExpertINS Kochi, which left Mumbai harbour around 10am on Monday, was the first to reach the site at 4pm. INS Kolkata reached around midnight. The Navy also deployed helicopters and aircraft to conduct aerial surveys. Other ships, including offshore support vessels, multipurpose support vessels and Coast Guard vessels got involved in the SAR operations the following day.The barge, owned and operated by Durmast Enterprises Limited, had been chartered by a consortium led by Afcons Infrastructure Limited for an Oil and Natural Gas (ONGC) project in the Western Offshore fields in the Arabian Sea. The people on board comprised marine crew, labourers on contract, and employee of Afcons, some of whom blamed their employers for the predicament.“Our employer thought that nothing would happen in the cyclone due to which we faced the most terrifying day of our lives,” said Nadkar, who was rescued by INS Kochi around 6am on Tuesday. “We waited till the last moment when the ship was just about to sink,” he added.“It is the mistake of the company to not take the decision to send us to Mumbai from the high sea,” said Dombivali resident Deepak Ingle, 30, a technician who started work on the barge in December.Some survivors said they’d lost everything in the tragedy.“I prayed to God all night that I would live to see my parents again,” said Sunil Kumar Madhesia (22), who hails from Kushinagar, Uttar Pradesh.“We saw our ship sink and several people on the deck were falling into the sea. [We] spent more than 10 hours in stormy water when the Navy rescued 12 people out of our group of 14 on Tuesday morning. Two are still missing,” said Madhesia, who worked as a helper on the barge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/survived-by-jumping-holding-hands-in-sea-101621451975790.html
20-05-2021||India||49 missing from sunken barge as navy grapples with rescue efforts||The Indian Navy has encountered an unforgiving sea off India’s west coast, where it has been at the centre of a challenging search and rescue mission for three days, involving warships, helicopters and surveillance aircraft, after Cyclone Tauktae killed dozens on land and at offshore facilities, said people familiar with the rescue effort launched on May 17.Winds blowing at speeds of more than 75 knots (140 kmph), furious 30-foot-high waves crashing on warships every nine seconds, and almost zero visibility – the sea has been battering rescuers, who were still looking for 49 people missing from a barge that sank because of the storm.While 434 people from two barges and an oil rig have been brought to safety, 26 people working at a third barge have died so far as the facility sank on Monday evening. Of the 261 people at the barge that sank, 186 people have been rescued, and 49 still missing.The rescuers and those being rescued faced the same perils, said Commodore Alok Ananda, an officer in the naval operations directorate, overseeing the demanding mission from New Delhi. “The intensity of the winds, the powerful waves, the heavy rain and zero visibility in the first crucial 24 hours of operations posed a giant challenge. In those conditions, it’s just you and the brute force of nature,” he said on Wednesday, the third day of the operations.On Tuesday, the navy’s deputy chief Vice Admiral Murlidhar Sadashiv Pawar described the navy’s effort as “one of the most challenging search and rescue operations” he had seen in his four-decade military career. Pawar wasn’t overstating the challenges being faced by the naval squads leading the operations.“Our warships sailed into the eye of the storm to carry out the mission. Everything had to be done with extreme caution. You didn’t want survivors to be slammed by a 7,500-tonne warship while being taken onboard,” said another officer, speaking on condition of anonymity.The warships were required to keep a safe distance from the distressed barges and scores of survivors in life vests bobbing up and down in the monstrous swells all around them.“If you are in the water and the warship as much as touches you, you are dead. It’s tricky maneuvering a warship in that environment,” said Ananda.Five warships – INS Kochi, INS Kolkata, INS Beas, INS Betwa and INS Teg – are currently involved in search and rescue operations off the country’s west coast, supported by P-8I maritime surveillance aircraft and Seaking and Chetak helicopters. Helicopters could not be deployed for operations on the first day because of extreme weather conditions.Also Read| PM Modi reviews Tauktae damage in Gujarat“It was enormously challenging to get the first two warships out of the harbour in Mumbai due to four-metre high waves and wind speeds between 120 and 140 kmph. Subsequently, we had to keep ourselves and the warships safe to carry out the operations in extremely hostile conditions,” Ananda said.The extremely severe cyclonic storm made landfall in Gujarat on Monday after strong winds and heavy rainfall battered Mumbai and other coastal areas. The maximum wind intensity at the eye of the storm at the time of the landfall was 160-170kmph, gusting to 200kmph. The system crossed the Gujarat coast between Porbandar and Mahuva (Bhavnagar district), east of Diu, with a maximum wind speed of 155-165 kmph, gusting to 185kmph.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/49-missing-from-sunken-barge-as-navy-grapples-with-rescue-efforts-101621451795735.html
20-05-2021||India||Army keeping an eye on drill by Chinese military near Ladakh region: Naravane||The Indian Army is keeping a constant eye on activities by the Chinese military including a drill it is conducting in its training areas near Ladakh region and there were no "violations" by either side since the implementation of the disengagement in Pangong lake areas, Chief of Army Staff Gen M M Naravane told news agency PTI on Wednesday.Gen Naravane also expressed hope that both sides will be able to make forward movement in resolving issues in other areas.The Chief of the Army Staff said the disengagement has been cordial so far, but added that Indian troops are maintaining an effective vigil to deal with any eventualities along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh.Asked about a military drill by the Chinese Army in their depth areas, he said Indian troops are keeping a constant eye on it."We have seen movements in training areas. It is an annual exercise. They come for training. We also go to training areas. We have been keeping a constant eye on it. We have forces along the LAC and they are adequate to deal with any action or activity," Gen Naravane told India Today channel.He said there were no "transgressions and violations" since the disengagement process took place in February and both sides are observing it in letter and spirit."What is important is that we are talking. And what is important to know is that between two phases, there are periods where the trust has to be built up. I think the trust has (been) built..because of that trust, maybe we will be able to make forward movement in other areas where issues are still to be resolved," he told CNN-News18.The Chief of Army Staff said India will maintain its enhanced presence on the northern front till de-escalation is achieved.India and China were locked in a military standoff at multiple friction points in eastern Ladakh since early May last year but they have completed the withdrawal of troops and weapons from the North and South banks of Pangong lake in February following a series of military and diplomatic talks.The two sides are now engaged in talks to extend the disengagement process to the remaining friction points.There was no visible forward movement in disengagement of troops in the remaining friction points as the Chinese side did not show flexibility in their approach on it at the 11th round of military talks with the Indian Army on April 9.About the coronavirus crisis, Gen Naravane said the Army is fully ready to extend all possible assistance in India's fight against the pandemic"We are an Army of the people, for the people," he said."There is no difference in mobilising for the pandemic. This is because time to time we also assist in dealing with other natural calamities. We are quite well geared up. All three branches of armed forces have been working collectively," he said.Naravane said 90 per cent of the forces' personnel have been administered the second dose of coronavirus vaccine and soon it will touch 95 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-keeping-an-eye-on-drill-by-chinese-military-near-ladakh-region-naravane-101621450395239.html
