21-05-2021||India||Export boom aids agribusinesses, not farmers||Rising agricultural exports from India, which shipped out a record 20 million tonne of foodgrains in 2020-21, have breathed new life into agribusinesses, but farmers say they have hardly gained because they had to sell cheap. Agricultural trading firms have benefited at the expense of farmers, export prices show. In the financial year ended March 2021, the country exported farm produce worth nearly $42 billion, a growth of about 18%, on the back of a rise in global commodity prices, official statistics show. The current boom is nearly of the same level seen in 2013-14, when exports peaked. India’s farm exports grew five times from just $8.7 billion in 2004-05 to $42.6 billion during 2013-14. They then fell sharply to $33 billion in 2016-17 and have been muted since. The country exported 17.72 million tonnes of rice till March 30. It also sold nearly 3 million tonnes of wheat and a similar amount of maize abroad. A firming up of global sugar prices, good news for India, the world’s second largest producer of the sweetener, prompted the government on Thursday to cut the subsidy on sugar exports from ₹6,000 a tonne to ₹4,000. Growing demand around the world for food staples such as rice, wheat and sugar are keeping Indian agriculture businesses and processing plants humming, as the pandemic began to ease in many nations. However, the issue is that farmers have gained the least. International food commodity prices rose for the 11th consecutive month in April, with sugar and cereals “resuming their upward trend”, the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) said on May 6. FAO’s Food Price Index in April rose 30.8% higher than its level in the same month last year. “A key reason for the surge of exports, especially in cereals, is that Indian produce has been very competitive (in terms of pricing) vis-à-vis countries like Australia and Thailand,” said Abhishek Agrawal of Comtrade, a commodities trading advisory firm. Competitive pricing simply means Indian exporters were able to offer cheaper prices to international buyers than their rivals . Moreover, rice producer Thailand’s shipments fell due to the drought and Vietnam too had a smaller crop in 2020. Indian exporters filled the gap. “Indian wheat is selling for about $280 a tonne (1000 kg), about 6% less than what competitors from Ukraine and Australia are asking,” said Vishal Tomar, who owns a wheat aggregator business in Indore. This rate for wheat exports is nearly the same as the minimum support price (MSP) of ₹1975 a quintal (100 kg). Analysts say this means the producer or farmer was likely paid much below MSP rates. An MSP is a federally fixed floor rate gives a return of at least 50% over cost of cultivation. Sunil Singh, a farmer from Bihar’s Arariya district, said he sold wheat for ₹1600 a quintal. “That was the highest rate available,” he said over phone. Ramesh Baranwal, a rice grower from Uttar Pradesh’s Balia, said he sold paddy (unmilled) for about ₹1400 a quintal, which is below the MSP of ₹1868. It is not difficult for exporters to buy produce below MSP. “They can always turn to states where the government’s procurement isn’t very robust,” Agrawal said. To be sure, the Union government has procured 36.6 million tonnes of wheat so far in the current season, which is nearly 30% more than the quantity bought from farmers during the corresponding period last year, food ministry data shows. However, procurement by government remains weak in states such as Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal. The 70th round of National Sample Survey for 2012–13 showed only 32.2% of paddy farmers and 39.2% of wheat growers were aware of MSPs. It also revealed that only 13.5% paddy farmers actually benefited from MSP, while the figure for wheat growers was 16.2%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/export-boom-aids-agribusinesses-not-farmers-101621621191979.html
21-05-2021||India||Ahead of Cyclone Yaas, Odisha is ready with evacuation plans||Ahead of cyclonic storm ‘Yaas’ heading towards Odisha, the state government on Friday asked officials at the Gram Panchayat level to ensure smooth evacuation of people residing in low-lying areas to safer places and asked fishermen not to venture out into deep sea from today.Special Relief Commissioner Pradeep Jena said a low pressure area is developing in the Andaman Sea and east-central Bay of Bengal around May 22 which may intensify into a cyclonic storm by May 24 and may move north-westwards and reach Odisha and the West Bengal Coast around May 26 morning. “It is likely to make landfall between Sundarbans near north Odisha coast and Bangladesh. The exact path of the cyclone is not yet known, but by tomorrow it would be clearer,” he said.Jena said all coastal districts are ready and officials at the Gram Panchayat level have been asked to ensure smooth evacuation of people residing in low-lying areas to safer places. “By now, the fisheries department has brought back nearly all the fishermen out at sea except 39. We hope by tomorrow those 39 would be brought back too. We have adequate workforce for rescue and relief operations. Fishermen have been advised not to venture into deep sea from today,” said the SRC.Jena further said the NDMA has asked all states to be prepared for the possible cyclonic storm. As part of preparatory measures, teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force (ODRAF) and Fire Services have been sent to the districts likely to be affected by the cyclone.Jena said all officials have been asked to bring down high mast lights installed at various locations in urban areas. Advertisement boards like billboards and hoardings will also be removed. The Regional Meteorological Centre, Bhubaneswar, has predicted heavy rainfall for several places including all six coastal districts of Ganjam, Bhadrak, Balasore, Kendrapara, Jagatsinghpur and Puri over the next 5 days. Besides, heavy to very heavy rainfall will occur in several interior districts.The Indian Coast Guard too, is closely monitoring the weather development and has initiated pre-emptive/preventive measures directing fishing boats to return to harbour for safety. Radar Stations of the Coast Guard in West Bengal and Odisha have also started transmitting weather warnings over VHF at regular intervals both in English and in vernacular language to alert Merchant Vessels and fishing boats operating at sea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-cyclone-yaas-odisha-is-ready-with-evacuation-plans-101621621132939.html
21-05-2021||India||Farm unions write to PM Modi, seek resumption of dialogue||Almost four months after talks between the government and protesting farm groups broke down, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a platform of farmer unions wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday, asking the Union government to resume dialogue to end the agitation, but remained steadfast on their demand to scrap the legislation. Farmers have been protesting at five sites in large camps near Delhi’s borders: Singhu, Ghaziabad, Tikri, Dhansa and at Shahjahanpur on the Rajasthan-Haryana border, demanding the rollback of three laws passed in September last year to lift restrictions on trade in farm produce. The continued protests have sparked concerns of a potential spread of Covid-19 infections, but the farmers have refused to give up the agitation, citing it as a matter of livelihood. “Mr Prime Minister, this letter is to remind you that, as the head of the government of the largest democracy in the world, the onus of resuming a serious and sincere dialogue with the farmers lies with you,” the letter signed by major farm leaders states. The trigger for their outreach wasn’t immediately clear. The signatories include Balbir Singh Rajewal, Darshan Pal, Gurnam Singh Chadhuni, Hannan Mollah, Jagjit Singh Dallewal, Joginder Singh Ugrahan, Shiv Kumar Kakkaji, Yogendra Yadav and Yudhvir Singh, all of who belong to various farm organisations that make up the Samyukt Kisan Morcha. So far, 11 rounds of talks between 40 farm leaders and the government have failed to resolve the crisis. Both the government and farmers called off the series of discussions on January 22, citing lack of progress. The unions have rejected the government’s offer to freeze the laws for 18 months. The Narendra Modi government, in September last year, passed The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance, Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020. The government has said the laws would spur investments and give farmers freedom to sell their produce directly to large buyers in a sector that accounts for nearly 15% of India’s $2.9 trillion economy and employs half its workforce. Farmers say the laws will threaten their livelihoods by forcing them to sell to corporate giants at poor prices instead of government-run markets, which offer them minimum support prices (MSP). An agriculture ministry official who had overseen previous rounds of talks declined to comment on the letter. “The government is always ready to talk to farmers. The prime minister and the agriculture minister have said this in Parliament and outside,” another official said, requesting anonymity. The official said in February, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, speaking in Parliament, urged farmers to end their agitation, resume dialogue and assured them that the system of MSP would continue as usual. “We…are writing this letter a few days before our struggle completes six months on 26th May 2021. On the same day, your government at the Centre, the most anti-farmer government that this country has seen, completes seven years in office,” the letter to the PM stated. In their letter, the farm leaders said the country was going through a disastrous pandemic and “we have no desire to expose the protesting farmers or anyone else to avoidable health hazards”. It further states that “at the same time, farmers cannot give up on this struggle that is a matter of life and death for them and for their future generations”. The farm leaders, in their letter, said they were firm on their “core demands”. These are repealing the three laws, a legal guarantee for MSP, besides protecting farmers from the adverse impact of a proposed electricity bill, which farmers fear would increase power costs for them. “Only direct talks with the government will end the agitation. But for the dialogue to resume, the government must end the atmosphere of enmity. The PM must show magnanimity and offer something new,” Gurnam Singh Chadhuni, a leader of the farmers’ platform, said. The farmers said they did not wish to “distract the government at this juncture”, pointing to the Covid-19 crisis. “But if we do not have a constructive and positive response from your government by 25th of this month, we shall be constrained to announce a further intensification of our struggle in the next phase, beginning with the national day of protest on the 26th of May,” it stated. “The farm laws are not under implementation since they are suspended. Yet, I think the government will respond positively to starting the dialogue process again since it cannot be seen to be closing the doors for talks,” said RS Mani, a farm economist formerly with the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-unions-write-to-pm-modi-seek-resumption-of-dialogue-101621621130657.html
21-05-2021||India||Child rights panel plans database to help children who lost parents to the pandemic||New Delhi: the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) is working on a centralised digital database to monitor and help children who have lost both their parents to Covid-19, officials familiar with the matter said. The database will help the Commission follow up regularly on the status of the vulnerable children and intervene wherever necessary. The platform, which is currently under development, is likely to go live before the end of the week. “The database and software will help in removing the bottlenecks in terms of the problems the vulnerable children are facing,” one of the officials said on the condition of anonymity. “The schemes available for child welfare, such as sponsorship will also be integrated with this database.”NCPCR, on May 2, sought details from the states regarding the number of such vulnerable children. The data, the officials added, is still in the process of being collated. The first official added that the database will help link the states with the centre to ensure seamless aid for the vulnerable children. The issue has become a point of concern after posts on social media seemed to suggest that children who had lost both parents to Covid-19 amidst the pandemic’s raging second wave, were up for adoption. The move prompted the ministry of women and child development to write to the union health ministry to seek the parents’ directions for children, in case neither of the parents survive the virus. The ministry had sought a that a section should be added to the hospital admission form, wherein parents may declare the details of trusthworthy person to hand the children over to in the event of unforeseeable circumstances. WCD minister Smriti Irani also took to Twitter to warn people from adopting children directly as it is illegal . The ministry fears that this could make orphans vulnerable to trafficking.According to state government officials, the number of such vulnerable children is not very high. A Rajasthan official said that only three such cases had been flagged to it. “The cases were found in Kota, Fatehpur and Sikar,” said state child rights Commission chair Sangeeta Beniwal. “We have ensured timely assistance and rehabilitation.”In Chhattisgarh, one such case was identified in Raipur. “Such cases are rare in the state,” said a State Commission for Protection of Child Rights official on the condition of anonymity. “One such case was found; the child was presented in front of the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) and has now been sent to stay with relatives.”The official added that the greater challenge was the impact of Covid-19 on children staying in welfare homes. “Many of these have been turned into Covid care centres,” the official said. “Across 90 homes, there is a strength of 2000 children, of which 128 have tested positive.” Officials in Odisha said that they are yet to find any such case in the state but a data collection exercise is ongoing. States such as Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, and Delhi have already stated that the government will take responsibility for children orphaned due to the pandemic. Congress party president Sonia Gandhi on Thursday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to ensure free education for such children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/child-rights-panel-plans-database-to-help-children-who-lost-parents-to-the-pandemic-101621621010686.html
21-05-2021||India||HC orders house arrest of 4 TMC leaders in Narada case||The Calcutta high court on Friday ordered four heavyweight Bengal politicians be kept under house arrest after a difference of opinion split the two-judge bench on granting the leaders interim bail in a corruption case. Senior ministers Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee, Trinamool Congress (TMC) legislator Madan Mitra and former Kolkata mayor Sovan Chatterjee will be placed under house arrest, the court said. A five-judge bench, headed by acting chief justice of Calcutta high court Rajesh Bindal, formed later in the day is expected to hear the matter at 11 am next week on Monday. The four have been in judicial custody since Monday after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) arrested them in connection with the 2016 Narada bribery sting operation. “There was a difference of opinion between acting chief justice Rajesh Bindal and justice Arijit Banerjee over the bail plea of the four accused. So, the division bench ordered that a large bench be constituted to hear the matter. Till then, the four accused would be kept under house arrest,” said Manishankhar Chatterjee, Subrata Mukherjee’s advocate. The four had secured bail from a special CBI court on Monday but hours later, the high court stayed the order. CJ Bindal was opposed to vacating the stay but justice Banerjee favoured it.On Friday, advocate Kalyan Banerjee, representing Subrata Mukherjee, told the court that Hakim’s presence was necessary for managing the Covid crisis in Kolkata. “As two of the accused persons are ministers in the state government, the court also permitted them access to administrative files and to meet government officials through video conferencing,” said Manishankhar Chatterjee.As per the court order, “government officials will not have any direct access to the accused. Meetings can be held through video conference and files can be sent to them online. A complete log of the video conference will be maintained. Record of any person visiting the house of the accused has to be maintained. Jail authorities will install CCTVs at the entry point of the houses. Any lapse shall be seriously viewed.” The four leaders were hospitalised after complaining of illness on Tuesday. Hakim was admitted to Presidency Correctional Home’s hospital while the rest to state-run SSKM Hospital. The hospital authorities have set up a medical board to treat them. While Hakim returned home late on Friday, the other three accused were still undergoing treatment at SSKM Hospital. Soon after returning home, Hakim held a virtual meeting with officials of Kolkata Municipal Corporation to take stock of the preparedness for cyclone Yaas that is expected to hit the state on May 26. The case against the four pertains to news portal Narada News’s two-year-long sting operation. The videos of the operation were uploaded months ahead of the 2016 West Bengal assembly elections and purportedly showed some TMC leaders accepting money in exchange for alleged favours to a fictitious company. TMC has linked the arrests to Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s loss in the recently concluded assembly polls. It has questioned why CBI didn’t arrest Suvendu Adhikari and Mukul Roy, who were also seen in the sting videos but have since switched from TMC to BJP. CBI’s plea to transfer the Narada trial out of the state is also pending before the high court. The CBI hasnamed West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, law minister Moloy Ghatak, and lawmaker Kalyan Banerjee as respondents in its plea to transfer the case out of the state. It claimed violent protests orchestrated by the TMC against the arrests hampered its probe and intimidated lower courts. Banerjee staged a six-hour dharna at the CBI’s office in Kolkata after the four were arrested on Monday. Ghatak led nearly 3,000 workers and supporters to the court premises. Outside CBI’s office, hundreds of TMC supporters staged a protest and threw bricks, bottles, and shoes at central forces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-orders-house-arrest-of-4-tmc-leaders-in-narada-case-101621620891920.html
21-05-2021||India||Remove content that mentions 'Indian covid variant': Centre writes to all social media platforms||The Centre on Friday wrote to all social media platforms asking them to immediately remove all content that names, refers to, or implies that B.1.617 is an 'Indian variant' of the coronavirus. "It has come to our knowledge that a false statement is being circulated online which implies that an 'Indian variant' of coronavirus is spreading across the countries. This is completely FALSE. There is no such variant of Covid-19 scientifically cited as such by the World Health Organisation (WHO). WHO has not associated the term "Indian Variant" with the B.1.617 variant of the coronavirus in any of its reports," the ministry of electronics and information technology wrote.On May 12, the Centre clarified that there is no Indian variant of coronavirus as the World Health Organization does not name any variant after the country where it has been first reported from.Several reports categorised B.1.617 as an Indian variant after WHO classified this strain as a variant of global concern. This was the fourth variant after those first detected in Britain, Brazil and South Africa, but WHO did not mention it as an Indian variant as it does not conform to its practice of naming variant strains."WHO does not identify viruses or variants with names of countries they are first reported from. We refer to them by their scientific names and request all to do the same for consistency," WHO said.The Singapore government has also asked Facebook, Twitter to carry a correction notice to users in the country as Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said the new variant found in Singapore is more dangerous to children. This comment snowballed into a political controversy as Singapore authorities said there is no Singapore variant and the recent spike of Covid-19 cases is actually due to the strain first detected in India. India's foreign ministry too reacted to Kejriwal's comment saying he does not speak for India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/remove-content-that-mentions-indian-covid-variant-centre-writes-to-all-social-media-platforms-101621619319621.html
21-05-2021||India||Why the gap between Covaxin doses has not been extended, Centre explains||The gap between the two doses of Covid-19 vaccines has become a crucial issue as the Centre has revised the gap between two doses of Covishield twice since the beginning of the vaccination drive in January. First, the two doses were meant to be administered four to six weeks apart. Later, the Centre revised it to four to eight weeks. Now the gap has been increased to 12 to 16 weeks.However, the gap between the two doses of Covaxin, the vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech, has remained unchanged.Explaining the difference, Indian Council of Medical Research chief Dr Balram Bhargava has recently said that the decision to extend the gap for Covishield and not to extend the gap for Covaxin has been determined by the effectiveness of the first dose of the vaccine.The first dose of Covishield results in a greater immunity which remains effective for around 12 weeks. Hence, the decision to delay the second dose has been taken, but no such finding is available for Covaxin, Dr Bhargava said.Terming it as evolving science, Dr Bhargava said vaccines came for the first time in the world on December 15 and so new developments are coming and will continue to come. "It has been seen that the first dose of Covishield results in a great deal of protection, which can stay around 12 weeks. But you do not achieve a similar kind of protection after the first dose of Covaxin. It is only after both the doses of Covaxin are administered, the protection reaches the optimum level," Dr Bhargava said.It is the same reason why people recovering from Covid-19 infection are also being advised to delay their vaccination, Dr Bhargava said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-the-gap-between-covaxin-doses-has-not-been-extended-centre-explains-101621617812475.html
21-05-2021||India||Navneet Kalra, Gagan Duggal imported 7000 oxygen concentrators from China: ED||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Friday raided the premises of businessmen -- Navneet Kalra and Gagan Duggal - - in connection with its money laundering probe into alleged hoarding and black marketing of oxygen concentrators, people familiar with the development said. Among the places raided include their residences at Mandi Road at South Delhi’s Mehrauli, Kalra’s restaurants – Khan Chacha, Town Hall, and Nega & Ju as well as Dayal Opticals in upscale Khan Market, officials said. A team separately searched Kalra’s bank lockers. From Kalra’s residence, the ED team recovered 150 foreign brand liquor bottles, officials told HT. The agency said that UK-based businessman Gagan Duggal – managing director of Matrix Cellular International Services Limited (Matrix), was working with Kalra in importing the concentrators to India and selling them at inflated prices. ED’s probe, according to the two officials cited above, has revealed that both Kalra and Duggal had imported more than 7,000 oxygen concentrators from China in the past one month and sold them to people at exorbitant prices by claiming that the concentrators were made with German technology. “The forensic examination of the concentrators has revealed that they were low quality equipment. Kalra and Duggal bought these in China and the same were routed to India via Hong Kong,” said the first officer, who didn’t want to be named. The ED probe has further revealed that the import price per unit of oxygen concentrator for Kalra and Duggal was ₹15,000 but they were charging ₹69,999 per unit from people. “The duo took advantage of a raging pandemic and made huge profit by cheating the public,” said another ED officer, who also requested anonymity. The agency had registered a case earlier this week to investigate the money trail of sale and purchase of oxygen concentrators and beneficiaries of hoarded concentrators. The federal anti-money laundering probe agency has powers to attach properties if established that money made by the accused is proceeds of crime. Kalra’s dramatic arrest from a farmhouse in Gurugram took place on Sunday even as lawyers were trying to obtain an anticipatory bail for him from the Delhi high court throughout the week. He is currently in judicial custody. He was being looked for since the recovery of 524 oxygen concentrators from three of his restaurants – Khan Chacha, Town Hall and Nege & Ju – and from the office of Matrix Cellular on May 7. Duggal’s company – Matrix – had issued a statement after Delhi Police action stating that – “All materials procured by Matrix have been by way of import or purchase in India, after paying all relevant duties and taxes. Matrix has thereafter facilitated sale of such equipment / materials via its app or direct orders placed on the company, all of which have used formal banking channels based on tax invoices with an unimpeachable audit trail. Separately, as part of our corporate social responsibility program, the company has donated over 200 oxygen concentrators, 10,000 masks, across the country; while also committing a donation of 200 oxygen concentrators to reputable organizations” “The baseless allegations and misguided investigation, shall be fiercely contested by Matrix and very soon we will be back to doing what we should be - which is helping Delhi,” the company had stated. “Matrix has filed documents before the Delhi High Court that prove the allegations of exorbitant pricing and deficient quality of oxygen concentrators is misplaced and incorrect. Matrix unequivocally denies any wrongdoing in the matter. The matter is currently before the Courts and Matrix has faith that the legal process will vindicate it,” Samudra Sarangi, lead counsel for Matrix said. Kalra’s counsel - Senior Advocate Vikas Pahwa didn’t comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/navneet-kalra-gagan-duggal-imported-7000-oxygen-concentrators-from-china-ed-101621615790904.html
21-05-2021||India||Rebel YSR lawmaker Raju gets bail from SC, barred from speaking on sedition case||The Supreme Court on Friday granted bail to rebel YSR Congress Party member of Parliament Kanmuri Raghurama Krishnam Raju but barred him from speaking to the media on the sedition charges filed against him. The top court accepted the lawmaker’s request after going through his medical report which confirmed that he had suffered a fractured toe and injuries in his leg. Raju, who was arrested last week by the Andhra Pradesh police on charges of sedition and hate speech, had attributed the injuries to torture by the police. The Andhra Pradesh police have denied torture. At Friday’s hearing, senior lawyer Dushyant Dave, who appeared for the state government, said the injuries could be “self-inflicted” but the bench questioned this theory, maintaining that he had been in police custody all along.The bench comprising Justices Vineet Saran and BR Gavai ordered Raju to furnish a personal bond of ₹1 lakh with two sureties of the like amount. But the bench also imposed a gag order, prohibiting him from speaking on the case with the media. The police can question him if required but will have to give him 24-hour notice. Also, the judges ruled that Raju’s lawyer will remain present at a distance during interrogation.Kanmuri Raghurama Krishnam Raju, who represents the Narasapuram Lok Sabha seat in Andhra Pradesh’s West Godavari district, has been a sharp critic of chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy for nearly a year. The state CID has accused Raju of sedition by pointing to his statements over the past year where he allegedly incited members of a community, religion or caste to beat and even kill members of another community or religion.The sedition case was filed against him weeks after he petitioned a CBI court to cancel the chief minister’s bail in a 2002 disproportionate assets case.Raju was arrested by Andhra Pradesh’s Crime Investigation Department on May 14. The following day when his application for remand was to be considered, the magistrate noticed injuries in his leg. Raju claimed he was tortured in custody by police but the state denied it.A three-member medical board of government doctors set up by the high court ruled out torture. Raju approached the top court for bail on May 15, alleging that he had been tortured by the police. Another medical board set up by the head of the army hospital in Secunderabad reported on Friday that the MP had a fractured toe and injuries in his leg leading to swelling of leg, contusions and clotting of blood at spots.The bench was prima facie convinced that the petitioner possibly was ill-treated during custody and noted his poor medical condition in the context of bypass surgery in December 2020.Dave pointed out that while being transported from Hyderabad to the army hospital, almost a 300-kilometre drive, Raju refused to travel in the state ambulance and insisted on traveling in his private car, flashing his injured leg to the waiting media persons. Deprecating this conduct, the bench told senior lawyer Mukul Rohatgi who was representing the MP. “This conduct of the petitioner to go in a private car was not proper. Tell him not to publicise his injuries. Next time we will take a strict view of this.”Referring to the charges against him, the Andhra government argued: “Even an ordinary citizen won’t get the protection of the law for making such statements and certainly not an MP who is expected to be responsible in his conduct.” Rohatgi objected to this charge claiming that the case against him amounted to “state-sponsored terrorism” as his client sought cancellation of bail granted to the chief minister in a clutch of criminal cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rebel-ysr-lawmaker-raju-gets-bail-from-sc-barred-from-speaking-on-sedition-case-101621614230729.html
21-05-2021||India||Kerala extends lockdown till May 30 as spike in daily Covid-19 deaths continue||Kerala on Friday extended the ongoing lockdown till May 30, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said. The triple lockdown too, imposed in the four worst-affected districts will be withdrawn except Malappuram. The CM indicated that both the test positivity rate and active cases had gone down slightly in the last two weeks but the time was not yet ripe to lower guard. One of the five states which registered the highest number of infections, Kerala has been under lockdown since May 7. Later, a triple lockdown (strict provisions) was imposed in four more districts-- Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam, Thrissur and Malappuram. “There is no let-up in cases in Malappuram. Its TPR is still high. Senior police officers will be camping in the district to take stock of the situation. We have to continue our vigil in other parts of the state though cases are coming down slightly,” he said. In the last three days, the average TPR in Malappuram was 33 per cent. Kerala reported 29,673 new Covid-19 cases on Friday when 1,33,558 people were tested with a test positivity rate of 22.22 per cent. But what is worrying is that the death rate is going up steadily. The state reported 142 deaths on Friday, the highest since the outbreak began last year. Its mortality rate is the lowest in the country 0.4 per cent against the national average of 1.30 per cent. In the last one-week the state reported 751 deaths. Active cases have also gone down slightly, 3,06,346-- two weeks back it almost touched 4.75 lakh, according to the health ministry statistics. Fearing an exodus of migrant labourers the government has started giving free food kits to them and asked contractors and builders to ensure their well-being. According to latest data around 20 lakh people from other states are working in the state especially in construction and unorganised sectors-- out of this nearly seven lakh people have left the state in three months after the second wave swept the state. Kerala is the first state to report a Coronavirus case in the country. A China-returned medical student last year was the first Covid-19 patient in Kerala. During the first wave, the state did well but in the second it floundered with healthcare like the rest of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-extends-lockdown-till-may-30-as-spike-in-daily-covid-19-deaths-continue-101621613330765.html
21-05-2021||India||Supreme Court stays Allahabad HC's 'Ram bharose' Covid order, says 'not implementable'||The Supreme Court on Friday stayed the recent order passed by the Allahabad high court in which the high court suggested several measured for the development of medical infrastructure in the state and observed that the entire healthcare system in villages and small cities of the state was "Ram bharose" (at God's mercy), reports said.A vacation bench of Justices Vineet Saran and BR Gavai said the high court consider looking into the possibility of implementation while passing any directions and should refrain if such direction is not implementable.“Such directions cannot be implemented and it shall be treated as advice and not directions. The state government, which will work to provide facilities to the people will keep in mind the advice of the High Court”, it said.The observations of the vacation bench come as it was hearing the submissions made by solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who was representing Uttar Pradesh government. While the "directions" of the Allahabad high court are "well-meaning", they are difficult to implement, Mehta told the apex court, as reported by Livelaw.On May 17, the Allahabad high court chastised the Uttar Pradesh government's handling of the Covid-19 pandemic and said if the situation of Meerut is such that a patient goes missing and then his body is disposed of as unidentified, then the situation of the smaller cities and villages can only be "Ram bharose".Such observations will have a demoralising effect on the health care professionals in the state, Tushar Mehta said.The remark was for a specific incident of the death of one Santosh Kumar, who was admitted to an isolation ward of a hospital in Meerut. The body of the 64-year-old was disposed of as unidentified as the hospital could not locate his file.The high court bench comprising justice Siddhartha Varma and justice Ajit Kumar directed that all nursing homes should have oxygen bed facilities and the medical college hospitals of the states should be upgraded to the level of Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute within four months. The high court also directed they every village in the state should be provided with two ambulances with ICU facilities within a month.Taking note of this direction of providing all villages with two ambulances with ICU facilities, the Supreme Court bench said that it would not be "humanly possible" as Uttar Pradesh has 97,000 villages.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-stays-allahabad-high-court-s-ram-bharose-covid-order-101621612584654.html
21-05-2021||India||Earthquake of 5.8 magnitude reported near Arunachal Pradesh’s Changlang||An earthquake of magnitude 5.8 in the Richter scale was reported near Arunachal Pradesh’s Changlang on Friday evening, according to the National Center for Seismology.Earthquake of Magnitude:5.8, Occurred on 21-05-2021, 19:18:41 IST, Lat: 25.67 & Long: 99.96, Depth: 100 Km ,Location: China, for more information Download the BhooKamp App https://t.co/EfLaQJhKlc @ndmaindia @IMD_Earthquake pic.twitter.com/L74hiVUlRK“Earthquake of Magnitude:5.8, Occurred on 21-05-2021, 19:18:41 IST, Lat: 25.67 & Long: 99.96, Depth: 100 Km ,Location: China,” the National Center for Seismology said in a tweet.The earthquake’s epicenter was reported 402 km southeast of Changlang. It struck at 7.18pm on Friday evening at a depth of 100 kilometers from the surface. There were no reports of casualties or injuries from the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/earthquake-of-5-8-magnitude-reported-near-arunachal-pradesh-s-changlang-101621611839327.html
21-05-2021||India||Cyclone Yaas: Bhubaneswar witnesses downpour, IMD predicts more rain||Due to the effect of Cyclone Yaas which is likely to hit the Odisha coast by May 26, capital city Bhubaneswar witnessed heavy rainfall on Friday. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast 'rain or thundershowers with strong gusty winds' for Bhubaneswar today.A low-pressure area is very likely to form over North Andaman Sea and adjoining East Central Bay of Bengal around May 22, which will be named as cyclone 'Yaas,' informed the IMD on Thursday.In an official media release, the IMD had informed that it is predicted to move North-westwards and reach Odisha - West Bengal coasts around May 26 evening.The system will be named 'Yaas' once it develops into a cyclone, said IMD.Meawhile, the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Friday asked states near the eastern coastline to prepare themselves for Cyclone Yaas that is likely to hit by May 24.Secretary of the health ministry, Rajesh Bhushan wrote the letter to Chief Secretary of States of Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal and Administrator of Andaman and Nicobar Island to draw attention for taking immediate necessary measures, in all coastal districts."As per information provided by IMD, a low pressure area is very likely to form over North Andaman Sea and likely to intensify into a cyclonic storm by May 24, likely to move northwestwards and reach near Odisha West Bengal coasts around morning of May 26, as of now. Apart from the impact of Cyclone in Odisha and West Bengal, there may be widespread rains in Andaman and Nicobar Islands and districts of the east coast that may cause inland flooding," Bhushan told Chief Secretaries.According to the IMD, the Indian Coast Guard (ICG) has initiated extensive pre-emptive measures on the Eastern coast and all the ashore, afloat and aviation units are on high alert.The national forecasting agency also said that though a fishing ban is enforced on the east coast of India, Coast Guard Dornier aircraft and ships at sea are also broadcasting weather warning to fishermen operating at sea about the likely formation of a cyclone and directing them to return to the nearest harbour for safety.ICG has also requested respective State/ UT governments to sensitise fishers and accounting of fishing boats present in harbour and a close liaison is being maintained.In addition, Coast Guard Disaster Relief Teams (DRTs) with inflatable boats, Life buoys, and lifejackets are standby for undertaking Disaster response operations. Medical teams and ambulances have also been kept standby for swift mobilisation, said IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-yaas-bhubaneswar-witnesses-downpour-imd-predicts-more-rain-101621610890778.html
21-05-2021||India||Covid hospital discharges outnumber admissions for 1st time in nearly 2 months||For the first time in nearly two months, the number of people discharged from hospitals on a daily basis after recovering from Covid has outnumbered the number of those getting admitted, official data shows.The government data shows, that since May 14, hospital discharges have outnumbered the admissions.The decline in hospital admissions can be attributed to the decline in positive cases, according to officials.The hospital admissions have dropped below the 1,000-mark since May 16. The admissions on a single day had risen to 1,993 on April 29, it showed.This is for the first time in nearly two months that the number of patients who have recovered after Covid is more than those admitted.Between April 1 and April 5, when the daily cases were below 5,000, the admissions were more than the discharges on a daily basis, according to the data.On May 14, 1,256 new Covid patients were admitted as against 1,331 discharged, it showed.The next day, 1,052 patients came to hospitals while 1,379 were discharged.Between May 16 and May 20, the hospital admissions recorded were 952, 914, 806, 731 and 560 respectively while the discharges in the same period were 1,079, 895, 1,326, 1,090 and 978 respectively.Between April 1 and April 5, the hospital admission figures stood at 294, 356, 353, 305 and 406 while the number of patients discharged were 139, 163, 166, 131 and 141 respectively.The hospital admissions on May 20 were the lowest since April 7 and 8, when there were 605 admissions on each day.On May 20, Delhi recorded 3,231 fresh coronavirus cases, lowest since April 5, when the national capital had logged 3,548 new infections.It was on April 11 that the daily cases crossed the 10,000 mark for the first time. It was on November 11 last year that the national capital had recorded 8,593 cases, the highest figure before that date.On April 11, there were 953 hospital admissions followed by 932 the next day.On April 13, the hospital admissions crossed the 1,000 mark with 1,218 patients, followed by 1,361, 1812, 1426, 1519 on April 14, 15, 16, 17 respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-hospital-discharges-outnumber-admissions-for-1st-time-in-nearly-2-months-101621610632762.html
21-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Harsh Vardhan terms claims of underreporting of Covid data a 'travesty' and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.'Such a travesty': Harsh Vardhan to Chidambaram's doubt over India's Covid dataNothing but political compulsions are forcing Congress leader P Chidambaram to express unnecessary doubts over India's Covid-19 figures, Union minister Dr Harsh Vardhan said. Read more here.Karnataka extends Covid-19 lockdown by 14 days till June 7Karnataka on Friday extended the Covid-19 lockdown from May 24 for 14 days till 6am on June 7. Read more here. Shweta Tiwari's ex-husband Raja Chaudhary wants her to reconcile with estranged husband Abhinav KohliRaja Chaudhary has said that he wouldn't want to comment on his ex-wife Shweta Tiwari and her estranged husband's private lives, but hoped for a reconciliation between the two. Shweta and Abhinav Kohli have been at loggerheads over their son, Reyansh. Read more here. 'I would just wait': Wriddhiman Saha backs Rishabh Pant as 'India's first-choice keeper in England'Now as India travel to England for the highly-anticipated World Test Championship final and the following five-match Test series, both Saha and Pant are named in the squad. But Saha believes that Pant has earned the right to be India's first-choice-keeper. Read more here. 'Even a single death worries us': Nurses on challenges of working in Covid wardsDon’t click on ‘Remind me later’: 5 software that you need to update right awayMost of us have clicked on “Remind me later” at least once on our devices when it comes to software and system updates. We might have saved ourselves a little time but it might lead to some grave consequences later. Read more here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-harsh-vardhan-terms-claims-of-underreporting-of-covid-data-a-travesty-and-all-the-latest-news-101621609892875.html
21-05-2021||India||'Faster than the virus': India's financial hub gears up for a third Covid wave||India's crowded financial hub Mumbai won plaudits this year for tackling the second wave of the pandemic better than any other metropolis in the country - and it is gearing up to get ahead of a potential third wave that experts fear could affect children.Mumbai is building four mammoth centres across the city with units for children infected with Covid-19 and it is working closely with a special task force that includes some of India's top paediatricians, the city's civic chief said. "If a 2-year-old child becomes highly symptomatic, how can you deposit the child in hospital without the mother?" Mumbai's Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal told Reuters. "We have already started preparing for that. ... One should be faster than the virus." With more than 25 million infections, India has the world's second-largest caseload after the United States and many of its states have been grappling with a lack of hospital beds and inadequate oxygen and medical supplies. Mumbai, in India's richest state, Maharashtra, struggled initially with one of the highest caseloads in the country but reined in the virus with strict lockdowns, widespread testing and a decentralised Covid management system.Chahal, widely credited for successfully managing the surge there, said the four Covid care centres with paediatric units, as good as hospitals, will be able to house more than a thousand children along with a parent.The facilities, which will also have intensive-care units (ICUs), will be ready by next month, well before experts predict the third wave will hit, said Chahal, adding that there is ample funding from the state, companies and even Bollywood celebrities.The city is spending tens of millions of dollars to build the paediatric units and is already procuring ventilators, monitors and other medical equipment, Chahal said.Apart from these units, the government is also in talks with hospitals to increase the number of paediatric beds and ICUs. The paediatric task force, led by Dr Suhas Prabhu, plans to train about 660 paediatricians on how to handle children affected by Covid-19, and then broaden the training to more staff.The third wave might not end up affecting children greatly, but cities like Mumbai cannot afford to be caught off guard, Prabhu said. The Mumbai ModelChahal was handpicked by Maharashtra's Chief Minister Udhhav Thackeray in May last year to lead the city's response when the virus hit.Chahal, the son of an army officer, set up local Covid "war rooms" in 24 zones in the city to decentralise the pressure and hasten the response.Even as other cities in Maharashtra continue to report high numbers, Mumbai's cases have plunged, says Prince Surana, a doctor who runs three hospitals in the city.But Chahal says Mumbai is not out of the woods.The city, like the rest of India, is still grappling with an acute shortage of vaccines.The city has floated a global tender to acquire 10 million doses from private companies, Chahal said."If we get the vaccines, in 60 days we can fully vaccinate Mumbai and negate the threat of a third wave," he said. "That's my biggest challenge and we are on it now."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/faster-than-the-virus-india-s-financial-hub-gears-up-for-a-third-covid-wave-101621604867236.html
21-05-2021||India||Labour ministry hikes variable dearness allowance for workers in central sphere||The Ministry of Labour & Employment on Friday announced a hike in variable dearness allowance for more than 1.5 crore workers in the central sphere by ₹105 to ₹210 per month.The hike, which will be effective from April 1, 2021, will also result in an increase in rate of minimum wages for central sphere employees and workers.It will be for scheduled employment in central sphere and applicable to the establishments under the authority of central government, railway administration, mines, oil fields, major ports or any corporation established by the central government. These rates are equally applicable to contract and casual employees/workers.Talking to PTI, Chief Labour Commissioner Central (CLC) D P S Negi said, "the dearness hike ranges from ₹105 to ₹210 per month for workers in the central sphere".In a statement, the labour ministry said it has notified and revised the rate of Variable Dearness Allowance (VDA) with effect from April 1, 2021.This will be a major relief to different category of workers engaged in various scheduled employments in the central sphere at a time when the country is struggling with the second wave of the Co-19 pandemic, it added.The VDA is revised on the basis of average Consumer Price Index for Industrial Workers (CPI-IW), a price index compiled by the Labour Bureau.The average CPI-IW for of July to December 2020 was used for undertaking the latest VDA revision.Labour Minister Santosh Gangwar said the revision will benefit about 1.50 crore workers engaged in various scheduled employments in the central sphere across the country. "This hike in VDA will support these workers particularly in the current pandemic times".The enforcement of Minimum Wages Act in the central sphere is ensured through the Inspecting Officers of Chief Labour Commissioner (Central) across the country for employees engaged in the scheduled employment in the central sphere.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/labour-ministry-hikes-variable-dearness-allowance-for-workers-in-central-sphere-101621609114042.html
21-05-2021||India||Centre sends black fungus advisory to states, alerts about other infections||The Union health ministry on Friday wrote to all states and Union territories urging them to ensure all Covid-19 hospitals and other health care facilities adhere to infection prevention and control practices. This comes in the backdrop of PM Modi highlighting the threat of mucormycosis or black fungus. Taking note of the sudden rise in the number of black fungus cases, the centre said the states must remain prepared to tackle "secondary and opportunistic fungal infections which are getting amplified due to the present surge in Covid cases".In its advisory, the Centre said that in due course, the states and UTs are expected to establish surveillance with a focus on ventilator-associated pneumonia, catheter-associated blood stream infection, catheter-associated urinary tract infection, surgical site infections, gastro-intestinal outbreaks.Black fungus: Here is a list of states with highest number of mucormycosis casesOpportunistic infections are those which affects the body when the immune system is weak. Amid the sudden surge of black fungus cases in the country, doctors have emphasised that mucormycosis is not a new infection. The spores of this fungus are present in the air, soil and even food. Cases of this infection surfaced during the SARS outbreak in 2003 as well, but the so-called rare disease is on the rise in India at present because of certain medical conditions, partially caused by Covid-19 treatment. Hospitals must prepare and implement an overall Infection Prevention Control programme following the ministry's National Guidelines for Infection and Control in Healthcare Facilities, the Centre said. The emergence of mucormycosis amid the second wave of the pandemic caught the country's healthcare system unprepared as it was already under the pressure of rising Covid-19 cases. The production of Amphotericin b, a black fungus drug, was also limited till April. Now as the Centre is ramping up the production of the drug and states are setting up exclusive facilities to treat black fungus cases, the focus should be on being prepared for similar possible infections. "Infection Prevention and Control practices need to be enhanced in ICUs using a bundle-approach to prevent device-associated infections such as ventilator-associated pneumonia or catheter-associated blood stream, urinary infections etc," the Centre said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-sends-black-fungus-advisory-to-states-alerts-about-other-infections-101621608709013.html
21-05-2021||India||I want to inspire young ones, says Tashi Yangjom, the first Indian woman climber to scale Mt Everest in 2021||The pandemic could only delay, not dissuade Tashi Yangjom. The 27-year-old saw five years of practice bear fruit as she scaled Mt Everest, becoming the first Indian woman to climb the peak in 2021. She scaled the famed peak by 6am on May 11, completing the mission she had started on April 4. And accolades poured in for the climber from Lubrang village in Dirang tehsil of West Kameng district in Arunachal Pradesh. Among those who congratulated her were Union sports minister Kiren Rijiju, who tweeted: “I extend my heartiest congratulations to Ms Tashi Yangjom from Arunachal Pradesh for scaling Mt. Everest & becoming the first Indian woman climber to Everest in 2021…”“Congratulations Ms Tashi Yangjom for scaling Mt. Everest and becoming the first Indian lady climber to Summit Everest this Season. Regular Training at @DirangNimas has made her a strong mountaineer with blitzkrieg speed,” wrote chief minister of Arunachal Pradesh, Pema Khandu in his congratulatory tweet.Ever since Yangjom joined the National Institute of Mountaineering and Allied Sports (NIMAS) located in Dirang in 2016, where she’s now an instructor, she aspired to climb the peak. The target, set for last year, was delayed by the pandemic. “Main bohot khush hun. I always wanted to wave the Indian flag at the top and I’m very thankful for the support and financial aid I received,” says Yangjom, now stuck in Kathmandu where she reached after her climb, due to travel restrictions. Recalling her journey, she credits her persistent training and motivation from other trainers that kept pushing her. “Before joining, I didn’t know much about adventure earlier. I got the inspiration from instructors, and I understood the guidelines better. Main ek bohot chote pahadi area se hun, so not many people know about adventure or mountaineering here,” says Yangjom who is from the Brokpa, a yak herding tribe, as she also credits her childhood hill treks and persistence of instructors at NIMAS for her feat.She also adds, “I want to set an example and make path for young ones to get started and inspire them.”The love and appreciation received from her family after achieving this victory is beyond belief to her as Yangjom states that her parents were apprehensive of letting her choose mountaineering as a profession earlier. “Ek saal laga mummy papa ko convince karne mein kyunki they were scared of the consequences. Bohot dangerous laga unhe sun ke continuously glacier mein jaana hota hai.” She also expresses her view on Nepal’s recent appeal to Everest climbers to bring empty oxygen tanks from the peak. She says, “It all depends on the climber’s strength and sherpa’s assistance kyunki itna height pe ek water bottle uthani ki energy bhi nahi bachti hai. Par shayad dono mil ke kar sakte hai.”Yangjom is now aiming to create more records such as climbing Mt Makalu, the fifth highest mountain in the world and participating in Seven Summits.Author tweets @sanchita_kalra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-want-to-inspire-young-ones-says-tashi-yangjom-the-first-indian-woman-climber-to-scale-mt-everest-in-2021-101621607749936.html
21-05-2021||India||'Such a travesty': Harsh Vardhan to Chidambaram's doubt over India's Covid data||Nothing but political compulsions are forcing Congress leader P Chidambaram to express unnecessary doubts over India's Covid-19 figures, Union minister Dr Harsh Vardhan said on Friday, in a scathing reply to one of Chidambaram's tweets. The Congress leader is "certainly" privy to the knowledge that the time duration between contracting Covid-19 and recovery or mortality mostly exceeds a few weeks, the health minister tweeted.What P Chidambaram argued was that if the positivity rate is going down in the country, then why the daily toll remains above 4,000. His tweet was meant for doctors and experts whom he urged to clarify whether the daily death toll is a result of any lack in the healthcare infrastructure. Going by the data of the Union health ministry, the number of daily Covid-19 infections has now come down to around 2.5 lakh, which was over four lakh a few weeks ago. But the same decline has not been noticed in daily deaths as the country on Friday too reported 4,209 deaths.Vaccines to all adults by end of year: Health minister Harsh VardhanWhy raise unnecessary doubts?As cases have been declining, recoveries have started reflecting an upward trajectory, & the mortalities shall show a decline too.Each death is most unfortunate, GoI is moving heaven & earth to fight this #pandemic#Unite2FightCorona @INCIndiaClarifying that it will take some time to reflect the decline in the number of daily mortalities, the health minister said, each death is most unfortunate and the government is moving heaven and earth to fight this pandemic. In his jibe against Chidambaram, the health minister also dragged the ongoing toolkit controversy and said such orders (to raise such questions) come from the "toolkit party".The BJP has accused the Congress of preparing a toolkit to defame PM Modi by building a biased and false narrative of the central government's handling of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic and the Central Vista Project. The BJP has also named Saumya Varma as the author of the toolkit, while the Congress said Varma is part of Congress's research cell.India's daily Covid-19 positivity rate has declined to 12.59 per cent though the number of tests being conducted per day remains around 20 lakh and is expected to go higher in the coming months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/such-a-travesty-harsh-vardhan-to-chidambaram-s-doubt-over-india-s-covid-data-101621604112842.html
21-05-2021||India||Bengal minister quits assembly to help CM Mamata contest old seat||Bengal’s agriculture minister Sovandeb Chattopaddhyay, who won from the Bhawanipore constituency in south Kolkata in the recent polls, resigned from the state assembly on Friday so that Mamata Banerjee can once again contest the seat she represented twice since 2011. Banerjee took oath as chief minister on May 5 though she lost from Nandigram in East Midnapore district. According to rules, she has to get elected within six months. After serving in Banerjee’s cabinet, Suvendu Adhikari, who joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in December last year, defeated her in Nandigram, his old seat. He is now leader of the opposition in the state assembly. “My party did not ask me to resign. I was under no pressure. I took the decision as a sincere worker of the Trinamool Congress (TMC) so that Mamata can contest from Bhawanipore again,” Chattopadhyay said after putting in his papers. “Her role in state and national politics is more important right now,” he added. “Chattopadhyay came to my office a little after 2.30 pm and submitted his resignation. He said it is his voluntarily decision. I have accepted it,” said speaker Biman Banerjee. The TMC routed the opposition by winning 213 seats. Following Chattopadhyay’s resignation, Bhawanipore becomes the sixth assembly seat to fall vacant. The state assembly has 294 seats but polls were held in 292 as two candidates of two seats in Murshidabad district died of Covid-19 before elections were held. The BJP won 77 seats but its tally came down to 75 as two of its winning candidates resigned to retain their Lok Sabha seats. As a result, two seats are lying vacant in Nadia and Cooch Behar districts. The Khardah seat in North 24 Parganas is also vacant as the TMC’s winning candidate died of Covid-19 before the results were announced on May 2. The Election Commission (EC) has not declared poll schedule for any of these seats. TMC leaders said Banerjee will decide what role Chattopadhyay, one of the oldest leaders of the TMC, will play. He may contest any of the vacant seats. The party also has the option of sending him to the Rajya Sabha as a seat is vacant because Dinesh Trivedi joined the BJP. Chattopadhyay, 77, however said he is too old to go to Parliament. Like Banerjee, finance minister Amit Mitra also needs to get elected. He did not contest the polls. Mitra earlier represented the Khardah seat. On May 17, Banerjee cleared a cabinet decision to form Vidhan Parishad, or the legislative council of the state assembly, which she promised before the polls. Banerjee said eminent people as well as veteran leaders who were not nominated for the assembly elections would be made members of the Vidhan Parishad. Since Vidhan Parishad members can become ministers, Mitra can be inducted in the Upper House as the members are elected by civic body members and legislators. However, according to Article 169 of the Constitution, the Parliament has to pass a bill for creation of the Vidhan Parishad and the President’s assent is also mandatory. The process may take more than six months. In such a scenario, Mitra has to contest any of the vacant assembly seats, TMC leaders said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-minister-quits-assembly-to-help-cm-mamata-contest-old-seat-101621603849670.html
21-05-2021||India||Kerala extends Covid-19 lockdown till May 30, registers 29,673 new cases||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan announced on Friday that a state-wide lockdown, in effect since May 8 to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), is being extended till May 30.Click here for Covid-19 updates of the day“Lockdown is being extended by one more week till May 30. It was about to expire on May 23. Today, Kerala saw 29,673 new Covid-19 cases with a test positivity rate of 22.22%. Kerala is among states reporting a high number of cases,” Vijayan said in a Covid-19 press briefing, adding that there were 142 coronavirus-related deaths in the state on Friday. “The case fatality rate is very low, at 0.4% as against the national average of 1.40%,” the chief minister further said.With daily cases witnessing a steep rise, the Kerala government announced the lockdown on May 6 in a bid to break the chain of transmission. The shutdown came into force on May 8 and was originally scheduled to last till May 16. Last Friday, Vijayan announced the extension of the lockdown till May 23. He also announced a “triple lockdown” in three out of four worst-hit districts, including Thiruvananthapuram.Also Read | Kerala extends lockdown till May 23 amid continuing spike in Covid-19 infectionsThis “triple lockdown,” Vijayan said in his latest briefing, is being removed from Thiruvananthapuram and two other districts -- Ernakulam and Thrissur. However, it will continue to be in effect in the fourth district, Malappuram, he said.Services which were exempted/disallowed during the previous phases are likely to be exempted/disallowed during the extended period as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-extends-covid-19-lockdown-till-may-30-state-registers-29-673-new-cases-101621601236756.html
21-05-2021||India||Centre asks Twitter to drop manipulated media tag from ‘toolkit’ tweets||The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology has sent a strongly worded notice to microblogging platform Twitter, for affixing the manipulated media tag to “tweets made by Indian political leaders with reference to a toolkit created to undermine, derail and demean the efforts of the Government against the Covid-19 pandemic”. An official familiar with the matter said that in its communication, the ministry has stated that a complaint has already been made by one of the concerned parties before local law enforcement and the veracity of the toolkit is under investigation. The ministry has stated that Twitter’s decision to use the manipulated media tag appears “prejudged and prejudiced”. “While the local law enforcement agency is undertaking the investigation to determine the veracity of the ‘tookit’, Twitter has unilaterally drawn a conclusion in this matter and arbitrarily tagged it as ‘Manipulated Media’,” the ministry has stated, said the official. “Such tagging by Twitter appears prejudged, prejudiced and a deliberate attempt to colour the investigation by local law enforcement agency.” HT reached out to Twitter but did not receive a response immediately. The government’s directive comes barely hours after Twitter tagged a May 18 post by BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra as “manipulated media”, in which Patra alleged that the Congress had circulated a document that outlined ways to defame Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The BJP alleged the toolkit was aimed at building a biased narrative over the Indian government’s handling of the second wave of Covid-19, and the Central Vista Project. Many top BJP leaders, including its chief JP Nadda and Union ministers Smriti Irani, Ravi Shankar Prasad, Hardeep Puri, Anurag Thakur, Piyush Goyal, amplified Patra’s tweet. Congress accused the BJP of concocting the document on Covid-19 to defame the opposition party. It wrote to Twitter on Thursday seeking action against Patra and other BJP leaders for “grossly misusing” the platform. The Congress accused the BJP of indulging in “large-scale dissemination of false information”, which “has the potential to cause social unrest in the country”.The Ministry has termed the “unilateral action by Twitter as an effort to influence the fair investigation process and a clear overreach, which is totally unwarranted”. It further added that the action dilutes the credibility of the platform. “This action not only dilutes the credibility of Twitter as a neutral and unbiased platform facilitating exchange of views by the users but also puts a question mark on the status of Twitter as an “Intermediary”.The ministry has asked Twitter to remove the “prejudicial” tag in the interest of “fairness and equity”.Patra, on May 18, had tweeted, “Friends look at the #CongressToolKit in extending help to the needy during the Pandemic! More of a PR exercise with the help of “Friendly Journalists” & “Influencers” than a soulful endeavour. Read for yourselves the agenda of the Congress: #CongressToolKitExposed”.https://twitter.com/sambitswaraj/status/1394527032730660870?s=20 A similar tweet by Shefali Vaidya has also been marked as manipulated media. “Another #CongressToolKit inspired move? #CongressToolkitExposed,” Vaidya tweeted on May 18, alleging that the “missing persons” complaint filed by NSUI was inspired by the “toolkit”.https://twitter.com/ShefVaidya/status/1394628176790179840?s=20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-asks-twitter-to-drop-manipulated-media-tag-from-toolkit-tweets-101621602169278.html
21-05-2021||India||India has administered over 190mn Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered over 190million coronavirus vaccine doses by Thursday, May 20, even as the country faces black fungus epidemic with at least 7,250 people confirmed to have mucormycosis in India though its spread may be wider.Meanwhile, by Thursday 8pm, 191,810,604 vaccine doses had been given in India. This includes 9,723,296 healthcare workers who have had their first dose and 6,680,206 who have got their second dose as well. As many as 14,784,918 frontline workers have had their first dose while 8,284,445 have got their second dose too.Also Read | Visit doctor when you have these symptoms: What experts say on black fungusIn the 45-59-year age group, 59,812,707 people have got their first dose and another 9,575,946 have had their second dose as well. In the 60+ category, 56,236,899 people have been administered their first dose while 18,128,133 have had their second dose as well.In the newly added category of 18-44 year age group, 736,514 beneficiaries received their first dose of Covid vaccine on Thursday and cumulatively, 8,584,054 of this age group have been vaccinated across 36 states and Union Territories.As many as 1,456,088 vaccine doses were given by the evening. Of this, 1,273,785 beneficiaries were vaccinated with the first dose and 182,303 beneficiaries received their second dose as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-over-190mn-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101621601989324.html
21-05-2021||India||Visit ENT doctor when you have these symptoms: What experts say on black fungus||Though most of the case of black fungus or mucormycosis are taking place among patients who are already admitted in hospitals for Covid-19 treatment, doctors are advising people to not neglect symptoms like swelling at any part of the face, eyesight problem or pain on one side the head. If a person recovering from Covid-19 encounters these issues, then the immediate next step is to consult an ENT surgeon.As the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in India is gradually coming under control with the number of daily infections coming down, the black fungus has emerged as the new threat. Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his interaction with doctors, paramedical staff on Friday mentioned mucormycosis as the new challenge and said there is a need for precaution and preparation.Amid outbreak, AIIMS director lists three key factors to prevent 'black fungus'ब्लैक फंगस को लेकर लोगों में काफी भय है, इसे कैसे समझें?@PrakashJavdekar @MIB_India @PIB_India @shashidigital #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/W3kdTWythfExperts including AIIMS director Randeep Guleria, AIIMS doctor Piyush Ranjan have said once infected, early detection of this fungal infection can save patients' lives. For this, a Covid patient should examine the full face in daylight for facial swelling around the nose, cheek and the eyes, discolouration, pain etc. Loosening of teeth, black areas inside the mouth are other red flags that should be reported to the doctor. one should also keep a check on the blood sugar level during and after the recovery from Covid-19, doctors have advised.Uncontrolled diabetes, misuse of steroid in Covid-19 patients when not required have led to the sudden spike in the number of black fungus cases.Mucormycosis is not contagious and there is no link among the simultaneous surge of cases in many states. The common link is the weakening of the immunity resulted from the probable misuse of steroids.How many cases of black fungus are there in India?According to rough estimates, there are over 7,000 cases of black fungus in the country. So far, Maharashtra has reported the highest number of infections in the country, followed by Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Telangana.How many people have died from the infection?According to HT's rally, at least 219 people have died from the infection.How does mucormycosis spread?Mucormycosis is a fungal infection, which can not be transmitted from one person to another.Difference between black fungus and white fungusThere have been reports of white fungus too but not much is known about white fungus officially. The health ministry has not commented on white fungus as yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/visit-ent-doctor-when-you-have-these-symptoms-what-experts-say-on-black-fungus-101621601381325.html
21-05-2021||India||Government exploring possibility of Covaxin production outside India||To address the shortage of Covid-19 jabs in the country, the government is exploring the possibility of boosting production of vaccines, including identifying manufacturing sites for indigenously developed Covaxin outside India, sources said.The government also intends to take up the matter with the World Health Organisation (WHO) to step up Covaxin production.It will also take up with Moderna, Johnson and Johnson and other vaccine makers the issue of granting voluntary licence to third-party manufacturers in India on transfer of technology basis.These issues were discussed in an inter-ministerial meeting on May 18 to deliberate upon the options, including voluntary licence, compulsory licence and government use authorisation under the Patents Act, 1970, available to increase the availability of drugs and vaccines used for treatment of Covid-19.The Ministry of External Affairs has also been asked to take up the matter with AstraZeneca, the maker of Covishield, to encourage them to grant more voluntary licences in India.The MEA and the Department of Biotechnology (DBT) will also prepare a roadmap to address raw material supply constraints for Covishield and identify the sources of raw material, sources said.As for Pfizer vaccine, the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) to take up the matter with MEA, Niti Aayog and Law Secretary to prepare a status report on issue of indemnity and liability agreement being proposed by vaccine manufacturer, they added.Many states have complained about the shortage of vaccines. To address the issue, the government has been taking measures to ramp up the production of Covaxin.Last week, V K Paul, Member (Health) in the Niti Aayog said Covaxin requires a Biosafety Laboratory-3, a facility which is not available with all.The DBT and the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) have been asked to identify manufacturers having BSL-3 facility as well as those who can establish such a facility to increase manufacturing sites in India, sources said."The MEA (has been asked) to take up the exercise of identification of Covaxin manufacturing sites globally in consultation with DBT. DoHFW (Department of Health and Family Welfare) may take up the matter with WHO to boost manufacturing of Covaxin," a source said.The DBT has been asked to inform about incentives including royalty being given to Bharat Biotech for grant of licence to manufacture Covaxin on transfer of technology basis.Last month, the DBT announced a plan to significantly ramp up the production of Covaxin.This included roping in three public sector companies -- Haffkine Biopharmaceutical Corporation Ltd, Mumbai, a PSU under the Maharashtra government; Indian Immunologicals Limited (IIL), Hyderabad, a facility under National Dairy; and Bharat Immunologicals and Biologicals Limited (BIBCOL), Bulandshahr, a PSU under the DBT.Paul had said 7.5 crore doses are expected to be produced by August and 10 crore by September.The DBT last week also said Gujarat Biotechnology Research Centre, Department of Science and Technology of the Gujarat government, along with Hester Biosciences and OmniBRx, has also firmed up its discussions with Bharat Biotech to scale up the Covaxin technology and to produce minimum 20 million doses per month.Technology transfer agreements have been finalised with all manufacturers.Separately, plans are on to manufacture the vaccine in Maharashtra and Karnataka.  Last week, the government estimated that by December, the country will have 216 crore vaccines, including 75 crore doses of Covishield and 55 crore doses of Covaxin.Further, Biological E is expected to produce 30 crore doses, Zydus Cadila 5 crore, Serum Institute of India 20 crore doses of Novavax, and Bharat Biotech 10 crore doses of its nasal vaccine, while Gennova will make available 6 crore doses and Sputnik V 15.6 crore doses, he said.The vaccine candidates of Biological E, Zydus Cadila, Gennova, Bharat Biotech's nasal vaccine are in various stages of clinical trials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/government-exploring-possibility-of-covaxin-production-outside-india-101621599263489.html
21-05-2021||India||Congress does not appreciate it: Alagiri on Stalin’s release request for convicts in Rajiv Gandhi’s assassination case||Tamil Nadu Congress chief KS Alagiri said on Friday that the party does not “appreciate” chief minister MK Stalin’s request to President Ram Nath Kovind to remit the life sentence awarded to the seven convicts for assassinating Rajiv Gandhi, and direct their immediate release“We don't appreciate it,” Alagiri told news agency ANI.Alagiri added that if the accused are released by the court, then the party will accept it but no political pressure should be exerted for their release.“If the court wants to release an accused, then Congress will accept it. There should be no political pressure,” he added.Stalin wrote to President Kovind on Thursday asking him to release the 7 convicts- Nalini Sriharan, Murugan, Santhan, AG Perarivalan, Jayakumar, Robert Payas, and P Ravichandran, who are serving life sentences in various prisons in Tamil Nadu for assassinating Rajiv Gandhi in Sriperumbudur, on May 21, 1991.Stalin told the President that a majority of the political parties and the people of Tamil Nadu are in favour of a remission of their life sentence and an immediate release.“The majority of the political parties in Tamil Nadu have been requesting for the remission of the remainder of their sentence and for immediate release of all the seven convicts as they have been incarcerated for about three decades. It is also the will of the people of Tamil Nadu,” Stalin wrote in his letter.The demand for a release of all seven convicts was approved by the Tamil Nadu cabinet in 2018 through the passing of a unanimous resolution which was then sent to governor Banwarilal Purohit for his assent, who had taken the stand that the fate of the convicts should be decided by the President of India.Nalini Sriharan, one of the accused, donated ₹5,000 to Stalin’s chief minister Public relief fund on Tuesday to aid the state’s fight against Covid-19. All seven convicts were members of the controversial outfit Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) and had been sentenced to death which was later reduced to a life sentence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-does-not-appreciate-it-alagiri-on-stalin-s-request-for-release-of-7-convicts-involved-in-rajiv-gandhi-s-assassination-101621597708794.html
21-05-2021||India||DRDO develops Covid antibody detection kit; to be launched in June||India’s Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has developed a Covid-19 antibody detection kit. The DIPCOVAN kit can detect both spike as well as nucleocapsid proteins of Coronavirus with a high sensitivity of 97%. It has been approved by Indian Council of Medical Research, and has been developed by the Defence Institute of Physiology and Allied Sciences lab of DRDO in association with Delhi’s Vanguard Diagnostics Pvt Ltd.“DIPCOVAN is intended for the qualitative detection of IgG antibodies in human serum or plasma, targeting SARS-CoV-2 related antigens. It offers a significantly faster turnaround time of just 75 minutes to conduct the test without any cross reactivity with other diseases. The kit has a shelf life of 18 months,” a statement released by DRDO said on Friday.Also Read | Real Covid-19 death toll could be ‘two to three’ times above official stats: WHOIt added that the indigenously developed kit was tested on more than 1,000 patient samples at various Covid hospitals of Delhi and three batches of the product had received validation last year too. With regard to manufacturing and sale of the product, DRDO said that it has received a regulatory approval from Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) as well as the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.“Vanguard Diagnostics will be commercially launching the product during the first week of June with an immediate available stock of 100 kits. These kits can help in conducting 10,000 tests with each test expected to be available at ₹75. The company would later be producing 500 kits a month,” a DRDO statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drdo-develops-covid-antibody-detection-kit-to-be-launched-in-june-101621598089251.html
21-05-2021||India||Battle against second wave not over but people throw Covid caution to the wind||Despite the government cautioning people to not let down their guard against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), as the battle is far from over, several incidents have reported in the recent few days where Covid-19 rules were flouted.The Covid-19 disease primarily spreads from one person to another through respiratory droplets when an infected person coughs or sneezes and crowds are considered to be a fertile ground for transmission of the disease. Despite this knowledge, people in several states of India, some of which were under the shadow of a high number of cases as well as deaths, were seen flouting Covid-19 norms.Here is a list of places where people were recently seen flouting Covid-19 norms:Andhra Pradesh | People in very large numbers gather at Krishnapatnam village in Nellore district where an Ayurvedic practitioner is distributing medicines for COVID19; social distancing norms flouted pic.twitter.com/plv60oxtXlTelangana: People flout social distancing norms at the vegetable market in Hyderabad.The state is under lockdown till May 30th to contain the spread of #COVID19. All activities allowed between 6 am to 10 am every day. pic.twitter.com/u55fJSeONVMadhya Pradesh: A video of large group of people gathered for birthday party in a village in Bhind goes viral "They gathered during lockdown. We have filed a complaint & are investigating matter. Action to be taken accordingly," says ADSP(Pic 1-Screengrab from viral video) pic.twitter.com/eFvEbUKDIsMadhya Pradesh is among the adversely affected states in the nation and faced a large number of cases as well as deaths during the second wave. Bhind along with other 51 districts of the state is under strict lockdown-like measures due to the rising number of cases. Law enforcement officials in Bhind on Thursday too had meted out punishment to Covid-19 curfew violators. People attending a wedding function at Bhind’s Umri were caught without masks and flouting Covid-19 rules and were also made to do frog jumps.Haryana | Majra villagers decide to boycott Covid lockdown post baton charge on farmers.CM Khattar flouted Sec 144 by visiting Hisar. After that, farmers were beaten by police. We've decided to boycott Covid lockdown. We won’t allow officials to enter the village: A villager pic.twitter.com/kvqaWeV9if#WATCH | Karnataka: A ceremony was held in Banahatti Village of Nargund Tehsil in Gadag district earlier today. #COVID19 norms flouted by people. pic.twitter.com/T4ljFnVrfp||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/battle-against-2nd-wave-not-over-but-people-throw-covid-caution-to-the-wind-101621595719243.html
21-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Over 5.7 lakh vials of Amphotericin-B to be available in June, says Centre and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Over 5.7 lakh black fungus drug vials will be available in June, says Centre as mucormycosis emerges as grave threatAs Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday talked about mucormycosis and how it is emerging as a new challenge, the Centre said it has taken a slew of measures to ensure mucormycosis medicine Amphotericin-B is available in the country adequately. Read MoreAntilia bomb scare: Vaze’s colleague Riyazuddin Kazi dismissed from serviceAssistant police inspector Riyaz Hisamuddin Kazi, arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in Antilia bomb scare and subsequent murder of Thane trader Mansukh Hiran, has been summarily dismissed from service. Read MoreChina says it will approve Dalai Lama’s successorChina on Friday indicated that it would choose the successor to the India-based Dalai Lama through “drawing lots from the golden urn” with the candidate subject to the approval of the Communist Party China (CPC)-ruled central government. Read More'We were there till Hardik was there': Chahal explains why he and Kuldeep no longer play together for IndiaThe spin duo of Yuzvendra Chahal and Kuldeep Yadav had a lot of success playing together. Read MoreAditya takes dig at Amit Kumar, asks Kumar Sanu if he really liked Indian IdolAditya Narayan, host of singing reality show Indian Idol, has taken a dig at RJ Amit Kumar on the latest episode of Indian Idol 12. Read MoreAmid Covid vaccine shortage, Jaishankar to visit U.S: What’s on the agendaMinister of External Affairs S Jaishankar is set to head to the U.S. for a 4-day visit from May 24-28. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-over-5-7-lakh-vials-of-amphotericin-b-to-be-available-in-june-says-centre-and-all-the-latest-news-101621594185056.html
21-05-2021||India||DRDO lab develops Covid-19 antibody detection-based kit Dipcovan||A lab of the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has developed a Covid-19 antibody detection-based kit called DIPCOVAN. The kit can detect coronavirus spike as well as the nucleocapsid proteins of the virus. "The kit can detect spike as well as nucleocapsid (S&N) proteins of SARS-CoV-2 virus with a high sensitivity of 97% & specificity of 99%," the DRDO said.The DRDO said that the kit has been developed in association with Vanguard Diagnostics Private Limited, a Delhi-based development and manufacturing diagnostics company. "It was developed indigenously by scientists, followed by extensive validation on over 1,000 patient samples at various Covid hospitals in Delhi," it added.The DRDO further said that three batches of the product were validated during last one year, adding that the antibody detection kit has been approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) in April this year. "In May 2021, the product received the regulatory approval from the DCGI, CDSCO, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, to manufacture for sale and distribution," it said.On Monday, the first batch of DRDO's anti-Covid drug, 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2-DG), was released by Union defence minister Rajnath Singh and health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan. The drug has been developed in collaboration with Dr Reddy's Laboratories, Hyderabad and was granted permission for emergency use by the Drugs Controller General of India, earlier this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drdo-lab-develops-covid-19-antibody-detection-based-kit-dipcovan-101621590604591.html
21-05-2021||India||NDRF prepares for Cyclone Yaas, positions teams in Bengal, Odisha||The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has begun positioning its teams in West Bengal and Odisha as Cyclone Yaas is likely to hit these states on the eastern coast of the country around May 26-27, officials said on Friday.Some of the teams dispatched to undertake evacuation, rescue and restoration work in states affected by Cyclone Tauktae on the western coast are being called back, they said.NDRF Director General S N Pradhan tweeted that the force has decided to "airlift" West Bengal and Odisha-based teams of the force in view of Cyclone Yaas and its "possible impact" in the coastal districts of the two states.The exact number of NDRF teams to be earmarked for the latest cyclone will be decided as per inputs received from the India Meteorological Department. The situation is developing, the officials said.The central force had earmarked a total of 101 teams for the extremely severe cyclonic storm Tauktae that developed in the Arabian Sea and mainly affected the costal areas of Gujarat and states like Maharashtra and Goa, apart from a few others on the western coastline of the country.Tauktae made landfall on Monday night near Una town in Gir Somnath district of Gujarat and wreaked havoc for around 28 hours before it weakened into a depression.Each NDRF team has 47 personnel who are equipped with tree and pole cutters, communication gadgets, inflatable boats and basic medical aid.Due to the Covid-19 spread, these teams have been provided orange-coloured full-bodied personal protection gear that includes a face shield for each rescuer.The NDRF has earlier said that most of its troops deployed for these operations have been vaccinated for coronavirus.Talking about Yaas, the IMD had on Thursday said that a low pressure area is very likely to form over north Andaman Sea and adjoining east-central Bay of Bengal around May 22."It is very likely to intensify gradually into a cyclonic storm during the subsequent 72 hours. It is very likely to move northwestwards and reach West Bengal-Odisha coasts around 26th May evening," the Cyclone Warning Division of the IMD had said.The name Yaas has been given to the potential cyclone by Oman, as per a standard protocol of naming such cyclonic storms in rotation by affected countries in the same area.The name Tauktae was given by Myanmar, and it means gecko or a small lizard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ndrf-prepares-for-cyclone-yaas-positions-teams-in-bengal-odisha-101621592546560.html
21-05-2021||India||Who gives 'unpronounceable' names to Covid meds, asks KTR. Shashi Tharoor replies||Telangana minister K Taraka Rama Rao, known as KTR, has a strange problem with Covid-19 medicines, which have become household names now amid the ongoing second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. The problem is not their shortage, but the fact that they have "unpronounceable" names, as the minister tweeted "on a lighter note". Listing out the names of the medicines, which includes Posaconazole, Cresemba, Tocilizumab, Remdesivir, Liposomal Amphotericin, Flavipiravir, Molnupiravir, Baricitinib etc. The list is long the minister said, jokingly hinting that Congress leader Shashi Tharoor may have something to do with these names.Playing along with KTR and his humour, Shashi Tharoor said he is not guilty of naming these medicines. Had it been left to him, the Congress leader would have happily called them 'CoroNil', 'CoroZero' and even 'GoCoronaGo'. "But these pharmacists are more procrustean..." Tharoor said. He also accused KTR of floccinaucinihilipilification.I suspect @ShashiTharoor Ji Pakka has a role to play in this 👇 https://t.co/zO024Pq0OaWhile it was made clear that the Congress leader had no hand in naming the medicines, Twitter users were quick to google floccinaucinihilipilification and procrustean. Floccinaucinihilipilification is estimating something asworthless while a procrustean is one who enforces conformity without allowing much variantion.Not guilty! How can you indulge in such floccinaucinihilipilification, @KTRTRS? Left to me I'd happily call them "CoroNil", "CoroZero", & even "GoCoroNaGo!" But these pharmacists are more procrustean.... https://t.co/YrIFSoVquoU guys can thank me anytime in my dm😌 pic.twitter.com/CazXl2DewVWhile 'Coronil', not how Tharoor has spelt it, is an immunity booster of Ramdev's Patanjali Ayurved, 'Go Corona Go' is a slogan given by the Republic Party of India leader Ramdas Athawale in 2020. Towards the end of 2020, Athawala claimed that his slogan was instrumental in driving Corona away and as the mutant strain of the virus found in the United Kingdom started being reported in India, Athawale came up with another slogan 'No Corona, Corona No'.With the resurgence of Covid-19 cases since March-April and that of mucormycosis in May, the names of several medicines have entered the everyday conversation as on various platforms doctors are sensitising people when to take medicine and when not. As 80 per cent of Covid-19 infections can be treated at home, the Union health ministry too has issued a detailed advisory of clinical management specifying which medicine can be taken at what stage of the infection. For example, Remdesivir is not to be given at the early stage — at home, doctors have said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-gives-unpronounceable-names-to-covid-meds-asks-ktr-shashi-tharoor-replies-101621590524052.html
21-05-2021||India||How Uttar Pradesh turned the tide in fight against Covid-19||India's most populous state Uttar Pradesh was one of states badly affected by the second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). When the infection started wreaking havoc across the country, the state too saw its tally rise rapidly.But the Yogi Adityanath government adopted aggressive measures to check the spread of Covid-19 in the state. Its ‘tracing, testing, tracking and treatment’ strategy has led to 68 per cent reduction in the number of Covid-19 cases from the peak of 2.10 lakh on April 23.According to state government data, the positivity rate has come down to 2.67 per cent from 22 per cent in April, which is one of the lowest in the country. The government data also showed that the recovery rate in the state stands at 92.5 per cent.The government has also launched door-to-door screening in around 97,000 villages with an eye on the spread of the infection in rural areas. More than one lakh Covid-19 tests are being conducted daily in villages.A 100-bed Covid-19 care facility started in a community healthcare centre in Gautam Buddh Nagar's rural Jewar area on Thursday.All the districts in the state have been directed to remain alert and authorities have been asked to ensure that the children receive prompt treatment. Authorities have been directed to provide oxygen facility and other necessary treatment to children severely affected by Covid-19.In terms of vaccination, as many as 1,58,41,256 vaccine doses have been given in the state, according to government data.According to Union health ministry, Uttar Pradesh is among 10 states account for 66.32 per cent of the over 19 crore doses given so far in the country. It is also among the group of states which account for 74.55 per cent of the new recoveries, the health ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-uttar-pradesh-turned-the-tide-in-fight-against-covid19-101621590095721.html
21-05-2021||India||B.1.617 Covid mutant found in 20% of samples in Chhattisgarh, says health minister||Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said on Friday that in Chattisgarh, the B.1.617 of Covid-19 (called double mutant) has been found in 20% of the samples during genome sequencing. He added that since March, Chhattisgarh has recorded a high positivity rate and since May a high number of Covid-19 fatalities have also been recorded.“In genome sequencing, in 20% of the samples we found presence of B.1.617 mutant,” said Vardhan during a video conference with health ministers of nine states and Union territories.The health minister also flagged Himachal Pradesh for recording a whopping number of 35,000 active cases with sample positivity rate of 9.5%. Vardhan said mass gatherings like marriage ceremonies, religious gatherings, local elections, and complacency regarding Covid norms have been highlighted as the cause behind the sudden spike.“In Himachal Pradesh, there are 35,000 active cases, sample positivity is 9.57%. In the past week, Kangra, Mandi, Solan, Shimla and Hamirpur have shown a surge in cases,” he said during the conference.Vardhan also identified Goa as an area of concern with 22,000 active cases and a fatality rate of 1.59%. The state also has four cases of mucormycosis or black fungus and the patients are currently being treated at Goa Medical College.The health minister emphasised that country-wide vaccination efforts need to be ramped up and whichever vaccine is available will have to be administered to people.“I'd like to emphasise that we need to step up Covid vaccination. Whichever vaccines are available to us, we have to give them as fast as possible. In the coming months, there'll be a significant increase in production capacity in the country,” Vardhan said.Chhattisgarh recorded 5,212 new Covid-19 cases and 113 fatalities on Thursday. The entire district of Raigarh was declared a containment zone by the state government on May 16, in a bid to contain the growing number of cases. Goa, which recorded 1,582 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, has been placed under curfew-like conditions. Himachal Pradesh, where the first case of mucormycosis was detected in a woman from Hamirpur on Thursday, reported 2,648 cases of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/b1617-covid-mutant-found-in-20-of-samples-in-chhattisgarh-says-health-minister-101621589513837.html
21-05-2021||India||Would rather die in jail than be shifted to hospital: Stan Swamy to HC||Elgar Parishad accused and human rights activist Stan Swamy, currently lodged at Taloja jail, has refused to be shifted to a government hospital for better health. The 84-year-old Jesuit priest told the Bombay high court on Friday that he would prefer to die at Taloja jail than be shifted to even JJ Hospital.Swamy told the bench of justices SJ Kathawalla and SP Tavade via video conferencing that when he was arrested and brought to Taloja jail eight months back, he could walk, bathe and eat by himself, but due to the poor conditions inside the jail, his health has deteriorated so he would prefer to be sent to Ranchi instead of being shifted to some hospital. In an earlier hearing on Swamy’s bail application on May 19, the bench had directed the Taloja jail authorities to take him to Sir JJ Hospital. It had also asked the dean to form a committee of expert doctors to examine Swamy and submit its report on May 21. The court had also sought Swamy’s presence through video conferencing on May 21. Also Read | HC allows Hany Babu to be shifted to Breach Candy Hospital for treating eye infectionThe report from Sir JJ Hospital mentioned that Swamy’s health parameters were normal but he had severe hearing problems, lower back problem and general weakness. On the bench’s suggestion that he be shifted to Sir JJ Hospital, Swamy said, “The condition of prisoners is not good and I would prefer to die here than be shifted to Sir JJ Hospital. I have seen the hospital and would prefer to remain in Taloja jail.” Swamy also declined the suggestion of the bench to shift to some other hospital. The court allowed his counsel, senior advocate Mihir Desai, some time to convince Swamy and posted the hearing of the application on June 7. The court also permitted Desai to approach it if Swamy could be convinced to shift to some other hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/would-rather-die-in-jail-than-be-shifted-to-hospital-stan-swamy-to-hc-101621587468394.html
21-05-2021||India||Cyclone Yaas: 'Ensure health facilities are stocked with essentials', Govt tells states in guideline||The Centre on Friday issued guideline to ramp up health infrastructure in coastal areas on the east coast of the country in the wake of Cyclone Yaas, which is expected to make landfall near West Bengal and Odisha on May 26. The government warned that public health challenge already posed by the Covid-19 pandemic may be compounded due to health risks posed in terms of water borne, vector borne and air borne diseases in camps/temporary shelter settings.The letter has been sent by Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan to chief secretaries of Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and administrator of Andaman and Nicobar islands which are expected to face the fury of Cyclone Yaas.They have also been asked to follow the release of India Meteorological Department (IMD) and plan in advance the evacuation of hospitals in the path of the cyclone. The order also said that the health ministry is ready to extend all the support required by state governments in managing the situation.Here are the main points from the guideline issued by the health ministry:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-issues-guideline-for-states-as-cyclone-yaas-nears-101621586932211.html
21-05-2021||India||PM Modi addresses frontline workers in Varanasi: Top quotes from his speech||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday lauded the frontline workers in Varanasi for putting up an efficient fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. The Prime Minister was interacting with the doctors, paramedical staff, Auxiliary Nurse Midwife (ANM), Asha staff, Anganwadi workers and other frontline health workers of his parliamentary constituency.PM Modi thanked authorities for increasing the number of oxygen beds and ICU beds in the city within a short period of time.Here are the top quotes from his address to the frontline workers of his constituency:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-addresses-frontline-workers-in-varanasi-top-quotes-from-his-speech-101621587004495.html
21-05-2021||India||Over 5.7 lakh black fungus drug vials will be available in June, says Centre as mucormycosis emerges as grave threat||As Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday talked about mucormycosis and how it is emerging as a new challenge, the Centre said it has taken a slew of measures to ensure mucormycosis medicine Amphotericin-B is available in the country adequately. Be it ramping up the capacity of the existing manufacturers or allowing new manufacturers or enabling the import of the drug, the Centre is on its toes, it said. As a result of this "whole of government" approach, around 5.7 lakh Amphotericin-B vials will be available in the country in June. The per-month availability will also go up as 11 manufacturers, including an importer, are now working towards increasing the supply of the drug in the country.Black fungus: Here is a list of states with highest number of mucormycosis casesMucormycosis is a fungal infection reported among Covid-19 patients, who have a high blood sugar level. Though the fungal infection is not a new occurrence, the number of cases has seen an unprecedented rise in India amid the ongoing second wave of the pandemic. The shortage of Amphotericin-B has added to the crisis, while prompted by the Centre, states and Union territories have now started notifying under the epidemic act. Separate wards, facilities are being brought in place to exclusively treat this fungal infection.Bharat Serums & Vaccines Ltd, BDR Pharmaceuticals Ltd, Sun Pharma Ltd, Cipla Ltd, Life Care Innovations are the five existing manufacturers, while Mylan Labs is an importer of Amphotericin-B drug. To this, five more manufacturers have been added, including NATCO Pharmaceuticals, Hyderabad, Alembic Pharmaceuticals, Vadodara, Gufic Biosciences Ltd, Gujarat, Emcure Pharmaceuticals, Pune and Lyka, Gujarat.Month-wise Amphotericin-B availability in numbers> Around 3,63,000 vials of Amphotericin-B are being imported in May.> In May, 5,26752 vials of the black fungus drug will be made available, including domestic production.> In June, 3,15,000 vials will be imported.> The total availability of Amphotericin-B in June will be 5,70,114, including domestic production.> The manufacturers which have received new licences for the production of Amphotericin-B will produce 1,11,000 vials of Amphotericin-B per month from July 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-5-lakh-black-fungus-drug-vials-will-be-available-in-june-says-centre-as-mucormycosis-emerges-as-grave-threat-101621586785382.html
21-05-2021||India||Amid outbreak, AIIMS director lists three key factors to prevent 'black fungus'||All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS) director Randeep Guleria on Friday listed three factors important in the prevention of 'black fungus' or mucormycosis outbreak, prevalent in Covid-19 patients."Three factors are very important- good control of blood sugar levels, those on steroids must monitor blood sugar levels regularly, and be careful about when to give steroids and their dosage," news agency ANI quoted Guleria saying as the Covid-linked infection claimed more than 7,000 lives in the country.The AIIMS director also said that the mucormycosis was also seen to some extent during the Sars outbreak in 2002. "Uncontrolled diabetes with Covid can also predispose to the development of mucormycosis," ANI further reported him as saying.Amid the Covid-19 outbreak in the country, cases of mucormycosis have emerged in patients who were in the recovery phase of the disease. The fungal infection is more life-threatening and attacks those with weak immune systems.Doctors suspect that the sudden surge in mucormycosis may be linked to the use of steroids to treat Covid-19. It can result in breathing problems and coughing blood. Other symptoms include blackening or discolouration over the nose, blurred or double vision and chest pain.Guleria also acknowledged that steroid use has become much more prevalent during the ongoing second wave of Covid-19. "Those given high doses of steroids when not indicated can lead to high blood sugar levels and a high chance of mucormycosis," he said. Guleria called for judicious use of steroids.On Thursday, many states like Gujarat, Karnataka, Rajasthan declared mucormycosis a notifiable disease under the Epidemic Act after a letter from the Centre.However, in the national capital, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said the city government will declare mucormycosis an epidemic if the need arises. He also urged hospitals to use steroids in a controlled manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-outbreak-aiims-directors-list-three-key-factors-to-prevent-black-fungus-101621586565726.html
21-05-2021||India||Vaccines, raw material supplies to be key part of Jaishankar’s US visit||Covid-19 vaccines and the lingering impact of a US law on exports of vaccine raw materials are expected to figure prominently in external affairs minister S Jaishankar’s interactions with senior American officials during his visit to the US next week. Jaishankar will meet UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres in New York and secretary of state Antony Blinken in Washington as part of his visit to the US during May 24-28, the external affairs ministry announced on Friday. He will also meet cabinet members and senior officials of the Biden administration dealing with bilateral relations and have two interactions with business forums on economic and Covid-related cooperation between India and the US, the ministry said in a brief statement. People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that ways to ramp up India’s procurement and production of Covid-19 vaccines are set to be a key part of the minister’s interactions with his US interlocutors. “This will include discussions on allocation of vaccines from the US stockpiles of 80 million doses that are set to be distributed by June,” one of the people cited above said. Also Read | Indian-Americans reported highest rates of voting in 2020 presidential electionThe continuing impact of the US Defense Production Act, which was invoked by President Joe Biden in February to restrict exports of vaccine raw materials, is also expected to figure in the discussions, the people said. “The US hasn’t imposed a ban on vaccine raw materials and they diverted some of the raw materials from their own orders to India but this has resulted in the raw materials coming in dribs and drabs,” a second person said. “Indian vaccine manufacturers say they can’t draw up plans to ramp up production in a big way until they are assured of raw material supplies in a timely manner,” the second person added. Though the external affairs ministry didn’t provide details of Jaishankar’s planned meetings with business leaders, the people didn’t rule out the possibility of interactions with representatives of key US vaccine manufacturers such as Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson. The US announced recently that it plans to distribute 20 million doses of Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson vaccines from its surplus stocks by the end of June. This will be in addition to 60 million doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine which isn’t authorised for use in the US and will be donated after clearance by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Gayle Smith, the coordinator for the US global Covid-19 response, has said a substantial part of the 80 million doses will be rolled out through the WHO-backed COVAX facility. US officials have also spoken of plans for the joint production of the Johnson & Johnson vaccine in India. The people cited above said India is expecting doses from the US both through COVAX and directly. Reports have said India is lobbying to get at least 35% of the 60 million AstraZeneca doses. External affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said on Thursday India is engaged with US entities on procuring vaccines and manufacturing them in India subsequently. This will be Jaishankar’s second in-person meeting with Blinken since they held talks on the margins of a G7 foreign ministers meeting in London on May 3 and it will allow them to discuss issues such as resilient supply chains, the American pullout from Afghanistan, India’s dragging military standoff with China and the Indo-Pacific, the people said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccines-raw-material-supplies-to-be-key-part-of-jaishankar-s-us-visit-101621585790431.html
21-05-2021||India||Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh granted parole to meet ailing mother||Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh, who is undergoing a 20-year jail sentence for raping two followers, was granted parole on Friday to look after his ailing mother, a senior prison official said.The official denied to comment on how long the parole was. “We will reveal information by evening. Every prisoner has a right to get parole and it was granted after taking feedback from administration and the police. We gave him a day-long parole last year too,” the official said.Singh, who has been taken to Gurugram to meet his mother amid heavy police security, had sought parole four days ago.Before this, the Dera Sacha Sauda chief was given a day’s parole on October 24, 2020 to meet his mother, who was admitted in a Gurugram hospital. State jails minister Ranjit Singh had justified the parole at that time, saying it was given as per the law.“There is a provision under the law that if there is an emergency in the family of the convict, he is allowed to visit his family under police protection,” Ranjit Singh had said.Last week, Gurmeet Ram Rahim was hospitalised at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences in Rohtak after his blood pressure dipped in the jail. He was discharged when all his health parameters were found to be in the normal range the next day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gurmeet-ram-rahim-singh-granted-parole-to-meet-ailing-mother-101621583930611.html
21-05-2021||India||Goa government to move high court against Tarun Tejpal's acquittal in 2013 sexual assault case||The Goa government on Friday said that it will move the high court against Tarun Tejpal's acquittal in 2013 sexual assault case. A sessions court on Friday acquitted the former Tehelka editor-in-chief who was accused of assaulting a former female colleague inside the elevator of a luxury hotel in Goa in 2013 during the ThinkFest event organised by the magazine."This is a victory for everyone, especially for Adv Rajeev Gomes, his associates and Tarun Tejpal also. It is also special because of the hard work and efforts of my senior advocate Rajeev Gomes. He has been acquitted of all the sections that he was charged with," Tejpal's advocate Suhas Velip said to mediapersons present outside the court. Velip was representing Tejpal as Gomes had succumbed due to complications from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) last week.The former scribe was charged with sections 376 (punishment for rape), 354A (sexual harassment), 354B (criminal assault with intent to disrobe a woman), 341 (wrongful restraint) and 342 (wrongful confinement) of the Indian Penal Code."In November 2013, I was falsely accused of sexual assault by a colleague. Today the Hon'ble trial court of additional sessions judge Kshama Joshi, in Goa, has honourably acquitted me. In an awfully vitiated age, where ordinary courage has become rare, I thank her for standing by the truth," Tejpal said in a brief statement after his acquittal. Additional sessions judge Kshama Joshi acquitted Tejpal, who was accompanied with his family members as well as family members of Rajeev Gomes."As a family we owe Rajiv Gomes a profound and permanent debt. And we grieve alongside his wife Cheryl and his young son Sean. No client can ever hope for a better lawyer than Rajiv. The ever-struggling wheel of justice has lost a solid spoke," Tejpal further added.The trial against Tejpal began in 2017, four years after the incident occurred and the former scribe approached the high court and later the Supreme Court challenging the framing of charges and seeking his discharge in the case. The Supreme Court ordered that the trial must be completed by December 2020 but it encountered several delays. The court was to deliver the verdict on April 27 but it was adjourned several times due to the Cyclone Tauktae and Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-government-to-move-high-court-against-tarun-tejpal-s-acquittal-in-2013-sexual-assault-case-101621581522368.html
21-05-2021||India||Narada case: Calcutta high court orders house arrest for all 4 politicians||The Calcutta high court on Friday ordered house arrest for four political leaders of West Bengal, including two ministers, who were held in the Narada bribery case. The order was passed after a difference of opinion between judges over vacating a stay given by it on bail granted by a special CBI court. One of the judges, Justice Arijit Banerjee, ordered interim bail, but acting chief justice Rajesh Bindal disagreed and called for house arrest.Owing to the difference of opinion between the two judges, the matter will be considered by a larger bench."Leaders to stay in house arrest till the time a larger bench is constituted and the matter is heard there. We are waiting for the order," said advocate Manishankar Chatterjee.House arrest was also ordered in the view of the Covid-19 pandemic ravaging the country. Until now, they were under judicial remand.The four heavyweight politicians of Bengal include two sitting ministers of Mamata Banerjee-led West Bengal government, Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee, Trinamool Congress legislator Madan Mitra and former MLA Sovan Chatterjee.Hearing in the case is still in progress following prayers from both sides for further arguments on the court's house arrest order. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the CBI, has pleaded for a stay on the execution of the order.The four leaders were arrested by the CBI on Monday morning in connection with its probe into the Narada sting tape case. The high court had on Monday night stayed the lower court's decision to grant bail to the four leaders.The case pertains to a controversy that erupted ahead of the 2016 assembly elections after Narada News portal uploaded a series of videos purportedly showing a number of high-profile TMC leaders receiving money in exchange for favours to a fictitious company.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/narada-case-calcutta-high-court-orders-house-arrest-for-all-4-politicians-101621577918553.html
21-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Fuel rates surge for 11th time in 18 days and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Fuel rates surge 11th time this month; diesel price rose over ₹3/lt in MayAfter a gap of two days, fuel rates jumped for the eleventh time in 18 days making petrol costlier by ₹2.64 a litre and diesel by ₹3.07 since May 4 as state-run retailers on Friday raised petrol rate by 19 paise per litre and diesel by 29 paise a litre. Read MoreJaishankar in US next week, to discuss vaccines and Indo-PacificExternal affairs minister (EAM) Subrahmanyam Jaishankar is travelling to the United States this Sunday for a week-long trip to meet UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres in New York and hold a bilateral meeting with US Secretary of State Antony Blinken in Washington to discuss vaccine production, resilient supply chains and the Indo-Pacific. Read More'We don’t discriminate’: Goa health secy on complaints of non-residents booking vaccine slotsGoa Health Secretary Ravi Dhawan said that the State would not ‘discriminate’ against people from outside Goa who are booking slots for Covid-19 vaccination via the Cowin app in Goa among the 18-44 age group, HT has learnt. Read MoreVaughan has ‘simple solution’ for IPL 2021 restart amid India-England Tests, calls it a ‘good deal all round’It was reported yesterday that the Board of Control of Cricket in India (BCCI) has requested the England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB) to advance the five-match Test series between the two nations. Read MoreAmendment in Central Motor Vehicles rules to promote clean fuel in rural IndiaThe Ministry of Road Transport and Highways has notified an amendment in the Central Motor Vehicles Rules, with an aim to promote clean fuel in rural India. Read MoreAditya Narayan accepts Pawandeep-Arunita's love angle on Indian Idol is fake: 'Ye dhong hai. But you enjoy it no?'Indian Idol 12 host Aditya Narayan says the romantic equations between contestants Arunita Kanjilal and Pawandeep Rajan has been cooked up by the show's makers. Read MoreWhen Madhuri Dixit and Malaika Arora wore similar saree and gave us two different looksMalaika Arora and Madhuri Dixit have a very different sartorial vibe, wouldn't you agree? But what would you say if we tell you that the two heartthrobs recently wore the same saree? Read MoreHow to protect children from Covid till vaccines arrive? Top doctor answersAs India continues to face the Covid second wave, experts have now warned of a third wave that they say may be more harmful for children. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-fuel-rates-surge-for-11th-time-in-18-days-and-all-the-latest-news-101621580584036.html
21-05-2021||India||Noted environmentalist Sunderlal Bahuguna dies of Covid-19 at AIIMS Rishikesh||Environmentalist and Chipko movement pioneer Sunderlal Bahuguna died at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences here on Friday after battling COVID-19 for several days. He was 94.He breathed his last at 12.05 pm, AIIMS Director Ravikant said. Bahuguna, one of India's best known environmentalists, was admitted to the hospital on May 8 after testing positive for Covid-19.He had been critical since last night with his oxygen level dropping drastically, and was on CPAP therapy in the ICU of the premier hospital.Passing away of Shri Sunderlal Bahuguna Ji is a monumental loss for our nation. He manifested our centuries old ethos of living in harmony with nature. His simplicity and spirit of compassion will never be forgotten. My thoughts are with his family and many admirers. Om Shanti.Condoling the death, Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat described it as a big loss not just for Uttarakhand and India but for the entire world. "It was he who made the Chipko movement a movement of the masses," Rawat said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/noted-environmentalist-sunderlal-bahuguna-dies-of-covid-19-at-aiims-rishikesh-101621581744833.html
21-05-2021||India||Jaishankar in US next week, to discuss vaccines and Indo-Pacific||External affairs minister (EAM) Subrahmanyam Jaishankar is travelling to the United States this Sunday for a week-long trip to meet UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres in New York and hold a bilateral meeting with US Secretary of State Antony Blinken in Washington to discuss vaccine production, resilient supply chains and the Indo-Pacific.According to South Block officials, EAM Jaishankar will meet Secretary General Guterres in the backdrop of India joining the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) as non-permanent member this year. The UNSC has been involved in discussions over the Israel retaliation to the Hamas rocket attacks from Gaza. However, with the help of Egyptian and US interlocutors both sides have now declared ceasefire. India has also made a statement on the skirmish last week.While India has decided to play an active role in the UNSC in the coming months, Jaishankar’s key meetings are in Washington to ensure that raw material pipeline from the US for manufacture of vaccines in India continues uninterrupted. On the coronavirus front, Jaishankar will be engaged with the US administration to secure unused vaccines particularly Astra Zeneca as well from the 80 million stock-pile under control of the Biden administration. New Delhi is also looking at joint production of Johnson & Johnson's vaccine in collaboration with the US in India. The external affairs minister will also be talking to other US-based vaccine developers as part of interaction under the aegis of India-American Chambers of Commerce.However, another important aspect of Jaishankar-Blinken meeting will be to discuss the resilient global supply chains as well as discuss the Indo-Pacific region with Chinese Army still not willing to restore April 2020 status quo in East Ladakh. The People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has still not gone back to its bases in Gogra-Hot Springs area around strategic Kongka la in East Ladakh and the Chinese are seriously ramping up military infrastructure all along the 3488 km LAC. On Thursday, Jaishankar made it clear that India-China bilateral relations will not be normalized till such time the PLA honours the 1993 and 1996 bilateral accords and restore peace and tranquilty on the LAC. The two leaders will also discuss the crisis in the Middle East arising out of Hamas rocket attacks at Israel from Gaza as well as Taliban’s role in continued violence in Afghanistan. With the US forces all set to exit out of Afghanistan in October, stage is already set for the Islamic republic to turn to Emirate with Taliban pushing their way towards Kabul through military might and tacit support of their handlers and ideologues in Pakistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-in-us-next-week-to-discuss-vaccines-and-indopacific-101621579100732.html
21-05-2021||India||PM Modi warns against 'black fungus', says must focus on 'precaution and preparation'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday interacted with doctors, nurses and paramedical staff working in Uttar Pradesh's Varanasi, who are at the frontline of the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. Lauding the medics, PM Modi said it is commendable how all nurses, doctors, ambulance drivers and ward boys came together against the Covid-19."Varanasi has set a great example by the way it has equipped Pt Rajan Mishra Covid hospital and increased the number of oxygen beds and ICU beds in the city, in such a short span of time," PM Modi said in the virtual interaction.He also said that he has been in constant touch with administration of Varanasi and have been taking stock of the situation.PM Modi also gave new slogan 'Jahan Bimar, wahin upchar' (treatment of the ailing person at his doorstep) and appreciated the micro-containment zone implemented by the holy city.PM Modi also praised the traders for keeping their shops closed to break the chain of Covid-19 infection and said the health infrastructure that came up over the last years, helped Varanasi fight the Covid wave.Further slamming opposition for its criticism of Yoga, PM Modi said, "when he started promoting Yoga, it was mocked, colour of communalism was given by some people. But now Yoga is helping people fight Covid-19.During the interaction, PM Modi also paid tribute to the people who lost their lives during the second wave of the pandemic. With teary eyed, PM Modi said, "this virus has taken away many of our loved ones from us."Warning against "black fungus", a life threatening infection, PM Modi said, "We must focus on taking precaution and preparation to deal with it." He also called for collective effort for the vaccination against the Covid-19.PM Modi is a Member of Parliament from Varanasi constituency. During the second wave of Covid-19, it was among the worst-hit region of the country's most populous state.PM Modi also asked the residents of Varanasi to not show any laxity in behaviour and continue following the Covid norms. "We have to keep the preparations tight even though Covid infected cases have decreased," he said."We have to remember our fight is against an invisible enemy," he told the frontline workers of Varanasi.Wishing good health for all, PM Modi said with the blessings of the Baba Kashi Vishwanath, Kashi will win the fight against Covid 19."Over the last few days, active cases have been going down in Uttar Pradesh. On Thursday, the state government said that the number of active Covid-19 cases in the state has come down by over 62 per cent since its peak on April 30.The state has a caseload of 16,51,532 infections, while the death toll stands at 18,590.On April 18, PM Modi reviewed the Covid-19 situation in Varanasi and said Varanasi has been able to fight the deadly disease because of its robust medical infrastructure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/have-been-in-constant-touch-with-medics-pm-modi-in-meeting-with-varanasi-doctors-101621573801015.html
21-05-2021||India||SC upholds IBC provisions of corporate debt recovery from personal guarantors||The Supreme Court on Friday affirmed the Central government’s November 15, 2019 notification which enabled financial institutions to proceed against the promoters in their capacity as personal guarantors of the defaulting corporate debtor. The court ruling will clear the decks for creditors to recover the remaining debt from personal guarantors after the conclusion of the Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process (CIRP). Industrialists such as Anil Ambani, Kapil Wadhawan, Sanjay Singhal, and Venugopal Dhoot had challenged the 2019 notification, which had extended the personal insolvency provisions of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) to the promoters as well. The bench of justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat, reading out the operative part of the judgment, said that the notification has been held to be “legal” and “valid”. It added that approval of the resolution plan relating to the corporate debtor will not operate as an estoppel so as to discharge the liabilities of the personal guarantor. A batch of 75 petitions had raised questions over the validity of the 2019 notification, which brought into force provisions of the Part III of the IBC, extending insolvency and bankruptcy for individuals and partnership firms to the promoters too. Also Read | Arrests over PM Modi’s posters ‘illegal’, says plea in Supreme CourtIn view of the ambiguity over the provisions, the top court had, in October 2020, asked the high courts across the country not to pass any order in such cases. It had also passed an interim order, staying the insolvency proceedings against personal guarantors. In June 2020, the State Bank of India had moved the National Company Law Tribunal, Mumbai, to recover more than ₹1,200 crore from Anil Ambani as he had given a personal guarantee for loans extended to Reliance Communications Ltd and Reliance Infratel Ltd. Soon after, several promoters challenged the 2019 notification, prompting the Supreme Court to transfer all matters to itself last year. The promoters contended that the Centre did not have the power to bring in IBC provisions selectively to personal guarantors of corporate debtors while also claiming that singling out of guarantors was violative of the fundamental right to equality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-upholds-ibc-provisions-of-corporate-debt-recovery-from-personal-guarantors-101621578107875.html
21-05-2021||India||Stalin asks President to release 7 convicts in Rajiv Gandhi assassination case||Chennai: Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin on Thursday asked President Ram Nath Kovind to remit the life sentence of seven convicts sentenced in the former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi assasination case and to direct their immediate release.“The majority of the political parties in Tamil Nadu have been requesting for the remission of the remainder of their sentence and for immediate release of all the seven convicts as they have been incarcerated for about three decades. It is also the will of the people of Tamil Nadu,” Stalin said in his letter. The seven convicts are Nalini Sriharan, Murugan, Santhan, AG Perarivalan, Jayakumar, Robert Payas, and P Ravichandran who are in Tamil Nadu prisons.Rajiv Gandhi was killed in 1991 and his assassins sentenced to death by a TADA court in January 1998. The Supreme Court later upheld the death sentence for only four: Nalini Sriharan, Murugan, Santhan, AG Perarivalan. But the death sentence was later commuted to a life term.In his letter to the President, Stalin recalled that Nalini Sriharan’s death sentence was commuted to life under Article 161 of the Indian Constitution that gives Raj Bhavan to pardon a convict, and the Supreme Court also commuted the death sentence of other three convicts to a life term.In 2018, the Tamil Nadu cabinet passed a unanimous resolution for the release of the seven convicts and it was sent to Governor Banwarilal Purohit for his assent.In February this year, Purohit, who had refrained from taking a call, finally said that the President was the competent authority to decide on the resolution.“These seven persons have already suffered untold hardship and agony in the past three decades and have paid a heavy price. There has already been an inordinate delay in the consideration of their pleas for remission. In the present circumstances of the Covid-19 pandemic, courts are also recognising the need to decongest prisons,” he said.On Wednesday, Stalin had granted a month’s ordinary leave for Perarivalan on medical grounds after considering an appeal from his mother Arputham Ammal that since Covid-19 is spreading in prisons, he was at a higher risk due to his health condition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stalin-asks-president-to-release-7-convicts-in-rajiv-gandhi-assassination-case-101621576967718.html
21-05-2021||India||Ramp up your vaccination to permanently control this virus: Dr Faheem Younus||Hundreds of mucormycosis cases have been reported in India and prompted the Centre to ask states to declare the life-threatening Covid-19 complication notifiable under the Epidemic Diseases Act. Faheem Younus, the chief of infectious diseases at the University of Maryland, spoke to Sunetra Choudhury about the disease, Covid-19 vaccination, etc. Edited excerpts:Why have mucormycosis or black fungus numbers multiplied?...we have seen Covid ravaging through Europe and North America, but I do not think we have seen that degree of increased cases of mucormycosis. Now, why a higher incidence in Nepal or India or Pakistan. There are some hypotheses and of course, there is a tri-factor. ...the fungus is in the environment and the soil and what predisposes a human being is diabetes, steroids, or immunosuppressive drugs. Covid by itself... I do not think predisposes anyone to mucormycosis. But it is the treatment of Covid. If steroids are being used in very high doses or if patients have immune suppression or they are having cancer, dialysis, or those situations and also depending upon what kind of environmental exposure they get... if they get a big dose of soil that is carrying this fungus and they are immunosuppressed, then there are chances that they are going to have a higher risk.Watch : Will children be impacted in next Covid wave? Dr Faheem Younus answersAlso Read | How high courts intervened in Covid-19 management in IndiaThose conditions prevail more in the subcontinent as compared to Europe and America. ...the focus should be on the appropriate use of medications and theearly diagnosis. ...what I am hearing is people are just using steroids like water. ...it is precision that matters. When you are a good clinician, do not do more, do not do less. A good clinician does just right and as long as you do just right, you will not do harm.Are doctors jumping the gun or people are self-medicating?Both could be possible because... when they first talked about steroids [in the UK], it only helped in people who were hypoxic, meaning they needed oxygen support or were on a ventilator. If you are home, do not require oxygen, your pulse oximetry is over 94, then you are going to actually do harm by taking the steroids. That is what was shown in the [UK] trial. And what I have seen is that even doctors feel compelled to write eight or nine things in regular patients who typically are going to get better by routine paracetamol. ...[Patients] feel good when you give them three or four medications. So, I get that. But as clinicians, our job is to do the right thing. And I think once again, it could be both that the doctors are over-prescribing and that the people are self-medicating.What else should be done to curb the disease?...good action will lead to good results. We are in control, not the virus. So, I absolutely believe that it needs to be stopped. It can be stopped, and you have to give a multifaceted strategy. The best strategy is to prevent it which means that you, first of all, tell people that this does not go from a person to person. This is not contagious like Covid. ...you need to quell the panic around it. Then you need to educate people about good hygienic practices. You tell them, in soil, this fungus prevails, so anything that you are doing that is bringing you closer to that soil may increase your risk. So, first is public education. The second is quick diagnosis... mucormycosis...is a rare disease. Early diagnosis is really the key. [It] is not just Amphotericin, the drug that typically gets used, but a lot of these patients require aggressive early surgery. Sometimes the eyeball has to be removed. Much of these infections happen in the face and head and neck area. So, prevention, early diagnosis, aggressive treatment. But at the end of the day, this is going to go away.Also Read | How different regions are faring in Covid-19 vaccinationThere is a lot of confusion that if you have been infected with Covid, when should you go in for vaccination? The government has said people must wait for three months. But many are saying that India now has a shortage of vaccines which is why people are told to wait...There are some broad principles for this whole pandemic that we need to first keep in mind. Number one is that science will change all the time. ...every day we do things and there are different results, and we are always changing our strategies. So, changing information is nothing new to the world of medicine. Number two is assuming good intent. Yes, if you do not trust someone, do not listen. But once you trust a physician, then surrender your opinion because otherwise, you are really going to have a lot of anxiety. And number three, there can be more than one right answer in this situation...many areas are grey; some are black and white, but not all. ... the current [United States] CDC [Centers for Disease Control and Prevention] recommendations, which will be globally applicable... is once you fully recover from Covid, you can go for the vaccine shot. After that, there is pretty ample and strong data that you are not likely to get reinfected for three months. That immunity is going to last for three months... maybe six, 12 months....We cannot go and buy everything. We must make choices. The government must do the same thing. So, if the government is saying three months because of a shortage, I see nothing wrong with it. I would be very transparent.But the government has not admitted that there is a shortage...That is why I am a doctor, and they are politicians. That is why we have different professions. But I would simply tell people and I will also reassure them that for three months, your risk is minuscule. It is not like you are increasing your risk. ...whatever the reason is, I think three months is Okay.You have talked about one month being ideal to vaccinate after Covid. Suppose you have had the first dose of the vaccine and you get infected, is there an outer limit for the second dose?I have seen many patients, who had one dose and then got infected ...which means that their exposure was just a few days before the first dose, meaning that they were completely not protected. That happens to be a tricky area. After you get Covid, there is significant science developing that just a single dose of vaccine is enough because Covid essentially was your first dose and your first dose of the vaccine becomes your booster, I mean your second dose. So first, people should know that if they got the first dose, then got infected after that ...they have up to three months to get their second dose.Doctors in India were the first to get vaccinated. The Indian Medical Association recently said that 260 health workers had died in India. How is this happening?...last I checked 40 million people in India have been fully vaccinated. If 400 people died, that would be 0.001% of them. That is the context. ...now you compare the risk with Covid... I think nobody understands that better than the US and India because these two countries have been just ravaged by this virus. ...we do not know the baseline mortality rate out of a large population. People will die at random times.Also Read | Covid-19: What you need to know todayYou know, there is random mortality going on that we call baseline mortality. Unless you can say that your baseline mortality has gone up, it is very difficult to once again attribute something to a vaccine. ...we do not know the confounding variables. I do not know the ages of these doctors. I do not know that how many of them were obese, how many had immunosuppressive drugs, how many had diabetes. We do not know any of that. As a scientist, I always keep that final option open. Maybe there is an X factor. Maybe there is something different with this variant that is going on. ...I think the headlines, the raw numbers can be very misleading... The vaccine right now is a thousand times less risky because people need to understand if they refuse the vaccine, what option they have.What should I do if I do not get the vaccine?There are two choices. Stay in your home, locked up for the next year, or go out and take the risk of Covid. And both of them are horrible choices. This idea that somehow not getting a vaccine gives us a safer option. No. There is nothing safer than that [vaccine]. You are exchanging a much bigger risk. If there was a better option, I would love for people to present it, provided it is data-driven; it is published.In India, there is a feeling that despite the vaccine, it does not an assurance that you are going to be fine. What would you say to this?This is just like saying that I was wearing my seat belt but then why do people die despite the seat belts? See, they are going to prevent a lot of deaths, but they are not going to prevent every death. That does not mean we should not wear a seat belt.Where is your stand on naming variants with regard to their countries of origin, given the racist and other connotations?I stand on the side of the patient. The patient who is in the ICU either trying to get on a ventilator or trying to avoid a ventilator or looking at death. Does that patient care what you call this? I do not think so. I have seen hundreds of those patients; they do not care what you call them...They are looking at the horror of Covid. They have never experienced something like this before. They feel like they are drowning in their own fluids inside their lungs. So that is where I stand as a physician. To me, it does not matter. I think whatever gets the patient immediate help is important.Also Read | MHA asks states to help vulnerable sections, kids orphaned due to Covid-19...when you name a variant after a country, it will impact the economy. At least there is a fear that it will impact the economy and your image. It will impact travel and all those things and for some people, it is just a matter of political pride, national pride. I get all of that.Our top scientists have said children are likely to be impacted in the next wave. Do you agree?That is very irresponsible to say with all due respect. I would not make such a statement in the midst of a pandemic when there are so many bigger real challenges that India is facing. ...there is no scientific data that it is true. It is somebody’s personal projection. ...we have not defined what a child is or what young means. People throw these terms out but as physicians, we have very clear definitions. Are you talking about people between the ages of 18 and 35? Is that what the young are? Is under 18 a child or is under 10 a child? What do you really mean by these terms? What is clear is more younger people are getting impacted. But look at the elephant in the room. Is not it likely that the first wave infected a lot of the elderly? Now they are probably immune, and their immunity is still lasting, and they are somewhat resistant to reinfection. Now you have added another 40 million, though a small number, who are fully vaccinated. ...you have a lot of vaccinated people who are also likely to be elderly. ... the elderly may be a little bit as well staying home, staying out of trouble. Young people may be living a little bit more through a high-risk lifestyle, going out to offices, work parties, etc. There are so many reasons which are much more likely to explain why younger patients are getting infected now. It is concerning if they are getting bad outcomes, but the way to make these assertions is to publish them.Also Read | Child rights panel seeks info on preparations to tackle third Covid-19 wave... folks like me can look at real data rather than learning from the media. No disrespect to the media, but I do not think science works that way. I cannot look at a media story that does not answer my questions and then draw a conclusion. Till today, I have not seen it, and if somebody has, please let me know... If you think there is good data out there to suggest that children are at risk in India, send it to me and I would be happy to review it. But I have not seen good data to make such a conclusion. Children can get this virus. They can get infected, no question. This is more transmissible, and we are likely to see more infections in youth and children because it is more transmissible. But are we truly at a point where we should be afraid for the life of our children or worse outcomes? I do not have that information and I do not think we should say that.Are more waves inevitable?This is a tough one. Once this virus gets holed in a country like it has in India, think of it as a flat tyre, like a punctured tyre, you can push air into it and go another few miles, but you will lose air again. You can keep pushing air, but unless you fix that puncture or you change the tube, you are not safe. Every lockdown is like you are just pushing more air in the tyre. It is going to give you some time. But the permanent solution is to fix that puncture by vaccination. ...ultimately, you have got to get up to 70-80% [vaccinated]. But once you get to 50%, chances are you will at least not see big waves anymore... Unfortunately, we are not in control and the virus is driving us the way it wants. You get to switch seats around that 50% mark. That is what we are seeing here in the US. ...The only factor that has changed is about 60% of the country is now vaccinated. So, I think that is the key thing. ... You want to permanently control this virus, ramp up your vaccination. There is no other shortcut, no other treatment.CDC has said if you have been vaccinated, you can take off masks. How convinced are you with that? In the subcontinent, that seems to be years away...CDC is doing the right thing. They just did so a little abruptly. I would have preferred this to be slowly communicated in a little more gradual fashion over a couple of weeks. People felt that jolt of just complete freedom. But yes, more than 95% of transmissions occur indoors and more than 60% of the country is vaccinated. Another 10 to 15% may be Covid recovered. So, you are already at 70 to 75%. As far as other countries are concerned, it is just not possible to stay in lockdowns. It is perfectly fine to just accept the fact that a good quality mask for the next foreseeable future, perhaps the rest of this year. I do not want to say years and years. I think I always think in three-month increments. ...I think in the next three months, it is very likely that you will need a good mask mandate and then from there on reassess.Umar Sofi has contributed to the story||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/conditions-that-cause-mucormycosis-prevail-more-in-subcontinent-dr-faheem-younus-101621575527985.html
21-05-2021||India||Fighting the pandemic: Back to basics||Nearly a year and a half since Sars-CoV-2 was first discovered, scientists have learnt a lot about how Sars-CoV-2 spreads, and how it doesn’t. A look at how masks, distance, and ventilation play a key role, according to the Centre’s newest guidelines.THE BASICS: HOW SARS-COV-2 SPREADSAs aerosol- Can be carried in the air to up to 10m. The risk is significantly high if someone is without a maskAs droplets- Someone speaking or coughing can spew larger droplets that fall within 2mVia surfaces- Though rare and not established beyond doubt, it can potentially spread from surfaces contaminated with viral dropletsSource: Office of PSAWHAT CAN HELP1) VENTILATE ALL SHARED SPACESKeep door and windows open as much as possible for open flow of air Let outdoor air flow in to displace indoor air Use an exhaust system or a fan placed near a window to increase air exchange Keep exhaust fans running if windows, doors are shut Windows and doors must be kept ajar if the workplace has multiple air conditioning unitsThis also applies for offices with centralised AC, which should add HEPA filters  In both kinds of spaces, unidirectional fans can expel air, helping draw in outside air from doors2) RIGOROUS MASK DISCIPLINE At the very least, people should wear a double-layer mask, if not wear two masks  N-95 masks (without a respirator) offer maximum protection  People should ensure masks fit snugly and cloth masks are washed every day  They should wear a mask when outside or at home with outsidersWHAT MAKES IT HARDER TO STOP Asymptomatic/pre-symptomatic threat: People can be contagious without showing any symptoms Unventilated spaces: In closed areas, such as homes and offices with no cross-ventilation, virus particles can keep accumulating in the airWIDESPREAD TESTING AND ISOLATION Rapid antigen tests can help improve surveillance in rural and semi-urban areas Asha, anganwadi and health care workers can be trained to carry out these tests These workers should be given oximeters to better monitor mild/asymptomatic cases||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fighting-the-pandemic-back-to-basics-101621574510001.html
21-05-2021||India||Goa court acquits former Tehelka editor Tarun Tejpal in rape case||Former Tehelka editor Tarun Tejpal was acquitted in a rape case by a Goa court on Friday. He was accused of raping a colleague at his magazine's event at a five-star resort in North Goa in 2013, and was arrested on November 30 the same year.He denied all charges against him and was later released on bail in May 2014.Issuing a statement after the verdict, Tarun Tejpal paid his tributes to his lawyer Rajiv Gomes, who died of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) last week."Last week my trial lawyer, Rajiv Gomes, died of Covid. Dynamic and brilliant, at 47 he was on the brink of a scintillating career as a criminal lawyer at the national level. No person fought harder, and with greater skill, to reclaim my life and reputation," he said.Tejpal further said he was thankful for Judge Kshama Joshi, who pronounced the judgement, for 'standing by the truth'."In November 2013 I was falsely accused of sexual assault by a colleague. Today the Hon'ble Trial Court of Additional Sessions Judge Kshama Joshi, in Goa, has honourably acquitted me. In an awfully vitiated age, where ordinary courage has become rare, I thank her for standing by the truth," he said.Also Read | Essay: The Story of Paatallok and Tarun TejpalHe also expressed gratitude to his family members and friends for standing by him through the 'dark years'."I wish to make no further statement at this time and request my family's privacy be respected, as we try and reclaim our broken lives. I will make a comprehensive statement at an appropriate time in the future," he added.The judgement was announced by the court after several rounds of deferral because of lack of staff members due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The court was earlier going to pronounce the verdict on April 27, but it was adjourned to May 12. On May 12, it was further deferred to May 19 and subsequently shifted to May 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-court-acquits-former-tehelka-editor-tarun-tejpal-in-rape-case-101621574612249.html
21-05-2021||India||How high courts intervened in Covid-19 management in India||During the second wave of Covid-19 infections, which has devastated patients and families across India, there is a somewhat unlikely institution that has been active, even proactive, in the realm of Covid management — India’s various high courts.Turn north first.On Thursday, the Uttarakhand high court (HC) came down on the central government after its representative failed to appear before the court to answer queries on oxygen allocation to the state.A bench of chief justice RS Chauhan and justice Alok Verma asked the central government counsel whether any officer was present before it, as was requested by the court during an earlier hearing. Last week, the court had told the central government not to divert oxygen from the state to other states and said it would stand for Covid patients of the state.The counsel, Rakesh Thapliyal, replied in the negative, saying the officer was busy. “They can’t be so busy as to not attend court,” the court said.Or turn west.On Wednesday, the Bombay HC directed the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) not to wait for the Central government’s permission to conduct door-to-door vaccination drive for the elderly and differently abled persons who cannot go out for inoculation.Also Read | Covid-19 self-testing kit to be in market next week: Here is how to use itA division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing a public interest litigation (PIL), said the Centre failed to give a favourable response to the court’s direction in an earlier hearing on May 12 on whether the door-to-door vaccination could be implemented. The PIL sought directions to the Centre, the state and BMC to provide door-to-door vaccination for people over 75 years of age, differently abled people and those who are bed-ridden.Or go south.On May 5, the Karnataka high court directed the Centre to supply 1,200 metric tonnes of oxygen to Karnataka considering that the cases were increasing. This came after the Centre had reduced the state’s oxygen allocation to about 900 metric tonnes and allowed diversion of oxygen from Belagavi to Maharashtra.The court’s order was in response to a PIL challenging the Centre’s decision. The Centre then challenged the high court order in Supreme Court. The SC upheld the high court order saying it was based on discussions with Centre and the state officials and was very rational. The Karnataka HC is monitoring the Covid situation in the state on weekly basis.And then look around the country.The Madras HC is monitoring the Covid situation in the state on a daily basis, and has been issuing orders on oxygen, bed and ventilator management. The Gujarat HC has rapped the state government for the high number of Covid cremations reported across the state and questioned the state’s Covid death figures. It also expressed its dismay at non-availability of beds. And in some states such as Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, HCs took over the Covid management, even suggested lockdown and appointed committee of experts to suggest measures to deal with rising Covid cases.Also Read | Child rights panel seeks info on preparations to tackle third Covid-19 waveThese are just some of the HC interventions across the country to manage Covid, with directions to the Centre and the state government to deal with the situation. The court’s interventions have come at the time when citizens are distressed and have felt let down by their elected representatives.But this approach has its critics too — particularly those who believe that the courts have overstepped their mandate, and they should let the executive branch of the State decide on policy issues, both in terms of its conceptualisation and execution. Veteran constitutional expert Subash C Kashyap, writing in Hindustan Times earlier this week, noted, “The constitutional way to handle the pandemic is to leave it to the separate organs of the State to perform the functions — and only the functions — they are meant to.”Others disagree and believe that courts provided relief when the government failed. “From providing hospital beds to oxygen supply to creating new Covid care facilities, the courts have issued directions on almost all aspects. I don’t think it was a case of judicial overreach,” said Prashant Bhushan, senior Supreme Court lawyer.A set of HC interventions:Allahabad HCOn March 1, 2021, a bench of justices Siddhartha Varma and Ajit Kumar asked the state government to ensure 100% compliance of mask wearing and restrict number of guests in marriages and funerals. The bench also said no to physical classes.On April 6, a bench of then chief justice Govind Mathur and justice Siddhartha Varma directed district collectors to ensure that Covid regulations are met and asked them to submit a report. It also banned crowding of people for panchayat elections and asked the state government to ensure vaccination of all above 45.On April 19, a bench of justices Siddhartha Varma and Ajit Kumar said Covid-19 had virtually incapacitated all medical infrastructure in Uttar Pradesh and specially in cities such as Prayagraj, Lucknow, Varanasi, Kanpur and Gorakhpur. It issued a slew of directions including closure of government and private offices, except for essential services, no social functions till April 26, and asked the state to consider complete lockdown. On April 20, the SC stayed the high court order.Also Watch | Will children be impacted in next Covid wave? Dr Faheem Younus answersOn April 27, the court asked the state government to issue health bulletins for major government hospitals twice a day and report every Covid death to a judicial officer. A week later, the court said that deaths because of non-availability of oxygen were “no less than genocide” and directed the district magistrate of Lucknow and Meerut to inquire into the matter of the deaths of patients due to shortage of oxygen supply in their districts.On May 7, justices Siddhartha Varma and Ajit Kumar asked the state government to ensure Covid-19 vaccination of all UP residents within three-four months and expedite the purchase of vaccines from the global market. On May 11, it asked the state to set up a mechanism to deal with Covid related complaints of people. And on May 17, the same bench observed that state was running “Ram Bharose” while speaking about a Covid patient going missing from Meerut district hospital, and later being cremated as an unidentified dead body.Patna HCThe Patna HC instructed the state government to form a 13-member expert panel on Covid; update death registration figures; boost testing facilities, especially in rural areas; and increase Covid beds.Uttarakhand HC The HC directed the state government to appoint monitoring committees in all 13 districts. These committees are submitting reports directly to the high court.On January 11, HC had directed the state government to apprise it about the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for Mahakhumbh and steps being taken to check the possible spread of Covid-19 at the festival where millions of people were expected to visit. The government later issued an SOP for Mahakumbh.In March, the HC directed the state government to ensure pilgrims coming for Mahakumbh have a negative RT-PCR test. The state government issued a direction in this regardOn April 28, the HC directed the state government to increase daily Covid testing in Dehradun, Haldwani and Haridwar to least 30,000 to 50,000. The court also passed a slew of directions related to black marketing of Covid medicines and injections and overcharging for Covid-related health services.Gujarat HCThe high court asked the state government to file the status report on bodies cremated after media reports suggested difference in number of Covid deaths reported from crematoriums and in state’s health bulletin. It also asked the state government to project the real picture, and said any attempt to hide will cause major problem in managing Covid-19.Also Watch | New Covid Protocols: Not just Masking & Distancing. Why Ventilation is CriticalThe court also asked the state government to publish correct RT-PCR data and not shy away from making results public, and increase Covid beds and ICU facilities. And it also set up monitoring committees for Ahmedabad and Surat municipal bodies.Chhattisgarh HCOn May 5, the Chhattisgarh HC asked the state government to modify its vaccination rollout plan that linked the Covid-19 jabs to the financial status of the beneficiaries, ruling that the government’s April 30 order that decided the state would first administer the vaccines to the poorest of the poor was against law. The state government then reserved only one-third of vaccines for the poor. HC also asked the state government to set up help desks for the poor to get on the spot registration and vaccines.Himachal Pradesh HCThe court asked the state government to increase the number of testing laboratories to cover a larger percentage of the population; consider sending mobile vans for Covid tests; increase the number of dedicated Covid hospitals; increase the number of Covid beds in all hospitals with regular oxygen supply; buy additional CT scan machines; provide real-time data on bed availability; and take action against private hospitals under Disaster Management Act for refusing to do tests or provide Covid health care.Madras HC The court sought weekly status reports on oxygen supply, bed availability, medicines and vaccinations. It also appealed to the Centre to distribute oxygen equitably to all states, and increase vaccines and drugs given to Tamil Nadu. It also suggested to the state government to consider shifting vaccination centres from hospitals to other locations to prevent further spread of the infection — a suggestion the state health department is working on.Bombay HC in GoaThe court directed the Goa government to fix the oxygen supply at the Goa Medical College and Hospital after deaths of patients at the hospital. It suggested a lockdown to the state government, which the government announced on May 6Also Read | India records 259,000 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hrs, fatalities go above 4,000On the court’s direction, the Goa government also made it mandatory tor all those entering the state to produce a Covid negative certificate, taken 72-hour prior to entry into the state.Punjab and Haryana HC, Chandigarh The court directed the Punjab and Haryana governments on April 23 to create a nodal agency in every district, which would monitor the availability of beds situation, supply of medicines, oxygen and other related issues. Nodal agencies were created by both the governments, as per their reports in HC on May 4.Tripura HCThe Tripura HC has asked the state government to ensure that every hospital has regular oxygen supply. It has also directed the government to do Covid-19 tests in all government sponsored orphanages after 36 children in Agartala-based orphanages were infected with the virus.Madhya Pradesh HCThe court directed the state government to provide Remdevisir injections at MRP, after reports of the medicine being sold 10-20 times the sale price. It also asked the state government to submit a report on preparations for the third wave.(With inputs from state bureaus)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-high-courts-intervened-in-covid-management-in-india-101621573847677.html
21-05-2021||India||13 Maoists killed in Maharashtra's Gadchiroli in an operation carried out by C-60 commandos||Thirteen Maoists were killed in Maharashtra's Gadchiroli in an operation carried out by the elite C-60 commandos. Gadchiroli Deputy inspector general police (DIG) Sandip Patil said the police operation was carried out in the forest area.The encounter started at around 4 am in Paithi jungles under Kotmi outpost of the district.The Maoists had gathered in the Paithi forest for a meeting, news agency PTI reported. Patil told the news agency that the commandos launched a search operation in the forest on the basis of specific inputs.“Based on specific inputs, the police party, comprising C-60 commandos, had launched a search operation in the forest,” said Patil.He added that the Maoists spotted the police party and opened fire forcing the C-60 commandos to retaliate. The 13 slain maoists were all killed in the retaliatory firing.Ankit Goyal, Superintendent of Police, Gadchiroli, told PTI that the encounter lasted for an hour after which the remaining Maoists escaped into the dense forest. Bodies of the slain Maoists have been recovered and a search operation is on in the nearby areas.On May 13, Two maoists were gunned down in Gadchiroli district by a team of C-60 commandos, a special unit of Gadchiroli police, and other security personnel. The forces were acting on information about 50 maoists gathering in forest near Morchul.The slain maoists were identified as Raja alias Ramsai Roharu Madavi, 33, who was carrying a reward of ₹12 lakh and Ranita alias Punita Chipaluram Gawde, 28, who was carrying a reward of ₹2 lakh. Madavi was allegedly a 'commander' of the Maoists in Tipagad area committee platoon number 15, reported PTI.In a similar encounter five Maoists, including two women, were gunned down in Khobramendha jungle of Gadchiroli district in March this year. They were attending a training camp in the jungle and a group of C-60 commandos, who were combing the nearby areas came upon it, according to the police. Along with the bodies of the slain Maoists the police had also recovered "Maoist literature" and arms and ammunition from the encounter spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/13-maoists-killed-in-maharashtra-s-gadchiroli-in-an-operation-carried-out-by-c-60-commandos-101621572037347.html
21-05-2021||India||Child rights panel seeks info on preparations to tackle third Covid-19 wave||The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) has urged the Union health ministry and states to take stock of the preparations to tackle the third Covid-19 wave, which is likely to impact the younger population significantly. It has sought information on the availability of paediatric facilities and beds, availability of neonatal ambulances for new-borns, and protocols for treatment of children.In a letter to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), NCPCR chairperson Priyank Kanoongo highlighted the potential impact of the third wave on children and emphasised the need for vaccinating children. “The third wave of Covid-19 is projected to hit the country, according to experts, and will affect children too... the Supreme Court... has emphasised upon the need to prepare for the same including vaccinating people...”Also Read | Child rights panel summons MC officials over kids working at Dadumajra landfill“...protocols/guidelines shall be further shared by NCPCR with the State Commissions for Protection of Child Rights (SCPCRs) for dissemination in States/UTs. Further keeping in view, high risk involved for children in upcoming third wave of COVID-19, you may kindly apprise the Commission, if additional protocols/Guidelines have been developed by ICMR for prevention and clinical management of children,” Kanoongo wrote in his letter dated May 20.In its letter to the Union health ministry, the commission has highlighted the need for transportation of new-borns, who may be impacted by the third wave. “Doctors have confirmed that even newborns and infants are testing Covid-19 positive, though their condition remains under control and rarely turns fatal. There is an urgent need to reorganize a Neonatal/children Emergency Transport Service (NETS) to prepare specifically for neonatal and children for third wave of Covid-19,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/child-rights-panel-seeks-info-on-preparations-to-tackle-third-covid-19-wave-101621571147565.html
21-05-2021||India||India records 2.59 lakh new Covid-19 cases in 24 hrs, fatalities go above 4,000||The number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases recorded in India in the last 24 hours dipped to 2.59 lakh, the Union health ministry data showed on Friday. With this, the nationwide tally reached 26,031,991.The daily fatality count - an area of concern in the second wave of the pandemic - once again went over 4,000 (4,209 to be exact) according to health ministry update at 8am. This pushed the nationwide death toll up to 291331.The number of active cases of the infection saw another drop of 1,01,953 and came down to 30,27,925.Also Watch: Will children be impacted in next Covid wave? Dr Faheem Younus answersOn Thursday, the country recorded 2,76,110 new cases of Covid-19 and 3,874 fatalities.At a press briefing on Thursday, health ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal said that a continuous decline in Covid-19 active cases has been noted in the last 15 days."From being 17.13 per cent reported on May 3, the active cases now comprise 12.1 per cent of the country's total infections. A positive trend in recovery has also been noted. The recovery rate which was 81.7 per cent on May 3 has increased to 86.7 now," he said.He also said that the country's positivity rate in the last 10 days has been recorded less than 20 per cent."Eight states have more than 1 lakh active cases, nine states have 50,000 to 1 lakh active cases and 19 states have less than 50,000 active. A decline has been observed in six states which were major contributors to active cases in the country - Karnataka, Maharashtra, Kerala, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat," said Agarwal.Also Read: 'Half of India isn't wearing a mask', says health ministry"Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Gujarat, Chhattisgarh, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi and Jharkhand are 10 states where a decline in cases and decline in positivity in the last 3 weeks have been observed," he added.Tamil Nadu, Meghalaya Tripura, Manipur, Nagaland, Sikkim, Mizoram are states showing a rise in cases and rise in positivity in last three weeks, the health ministry official said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a meeting with district magistrates, local officials and chief ministers of some states on Thursday where he emphasised the need to save the villages and sought ideas and practices to tackle the pandemic. The Prime Minister said the Sars-Cov-2 virus is "like a shape-shifter and clever" and cautioned not to lower the guard.India, meanwhile, conducted more than 20.55 lakh tests in a span of 24 hours (till Thursday), the highest ever conducted in a single day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-2-59-lakh-new-covid-19-cases-in-24-hrs-fatalities-go-above-4000-101621566714355.html
21-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM to interact with front line workers in Varanasi today||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19: PM Modi to interact with doctors, front line workers in Varanasi todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will virtually interact with doctors, nurses, paramedical staff and other front line workers in Uttar Pradesh's Varanasi at 11am on Friday. Read more.As Centre aims to ramp up Covid-19 testing, focus on rapid antigen testsThe central government on Thursday said that it aims to ramp up India's daily testing capacity for Covid-19 and has taken a number of steps in this regard. At a media briefing, the director general of ICMR Dr Balram Bhargava said that the government plans to push up the number of Covid-19 tests being conducted in India daily from the current 16-20 lakh to 45 lakh by end of June. Read more.'Half of India isn't wearing a mask': Health ministry cites Covid-19 studyThe Union health ministry said on Thursday that 50 per per cent of the country's population isn't wearing a mask, as it shared an update about Covid-19 situation in India. At the media briefing, health ministry Joint Secretary Lav Agarwal said that eight states have more than 1 lakh active cases of Covid-19, nine states have 50,000 to 1 lakh active cases and 19 states have less than 50,000 active cases of the infection. Read more.Dravid was invested in India becoming the best but not everyone in the team had the same feeling: Greg ChappellGreg Chappell's tenure as head coach of the Indian cricket team is one of the most controversial chapters in Indian cricket. Chappell was appointed the successor of John Wright but ended up having tumultuous two years as coach. Read more.The Me You Can't See review: Prince Harry bares his soul to Oprah in profoundly moving Apple showPain that is not transformed is transmitted, says Prince Harry. Someone once told him that, and it stuck with him. In Apple's The Me You Can’t See, Harry bares his soul to Oprah Winfrey about getting the help that he so desperately needed. The documentary series, about mental health, is their way of paying it forward. Read more.Pooja Batra sheds light on link between healthy skin and exercise in new postPooja Batra is a champ when it comes to working out. The actor who has been doing Yoga for some time now, can nail quite difficult asanas like no big deal. Read more.Will children be impacted in next Covid wave? Dr Faheem Younus answersThe next wave of coronavirus, as reports suggest, could potentially hit younger people, particularly children, harder. In this episode of On The Record, infectious diseases expert from the University of Maryland, Dr Faheem Younus throws light on whether children will be impacted in the third wave of Covid-19. Watch the full video for more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-to-interact-with-front-line-workers-in-varanasi-today-101621567426771.html
21-05-2021||India||India Air Force's MiG-21 crashes in Punjab, pilot killed||An Indian Air Force (IAF) MiG-21 fighter aircraft crashed near Moga in Punjab late on Thursday night, killing the pilot, the IAF said. The aircraft was on a routine training sortie when the accident happened in Langeana village of Moga."There was an aircraft accident last night involving a Bison aircraft of IAF in the western sector. The pilot, Sqn Ldr Abhinav Choudhary, sustained fatal injuries. IAF condoles the tragic loss and stands firmly with the bereaved family," the IAF said in a statement posted on Twitter.There was an aircraft accident last night involving a Bison aircraft of IAF in the western sector. The pilot, Sqn Ldr Abhinav Choudhary, sustained fatal injuries. IAF condoles the tragic loss and stands firmly with the bereaved family.A Court of Inquiry has been ordered to ascertain the cause of the accident involving a Bison aircraft of IAF in western sector, it added.An official told news agency PTI that an IAF tea, from Halwara and Bathinda with medical personnel and ambulances has reached the crash site, about 12 km from Baghapurana town on the Mudki road."The aircraft crashed in a field and caught fire. It was raining heavily at the time," Moga Superintendent of Police Gurdeep Singh said, adding that there was no other loss of life or damage to property.The pilot's body was found about two kilometres from the crash site, barely 200 metres from a couple of big 'havelis', he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-air-force-s-mig-21-crashes-in-punjab-pilot-dies-101621567969784.html
21-05-2021||India||Covid-19 self-testing kit to be in market next week: Here is how to use it||A home-based coronavirus (Covid-19) testing kit by Pune-based company Mylab Discovery Solutions was launched in India a day after the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) gave its nod for its use. The kit, called CoviSelf, will be available in the market next week and it will cost ₹250.The kit comprises of a pre-filled extraction tube, a sterile nasal swab and one test card.Watch: How much will self-test kit cost? ICMR DG explains how to take testMylab is currently manufacturing seven million test kits per week, it said in a statement. The firm aims to ramp up production after the kit hits the market, and produce about 10 million tests per week in the next 14 days, it added.Explaining how to use the kit, ICMR chief General Balram Bhargava said it is an easy, secure and quick process. "It takes two minutes to conduct the test and 15 minutes to get the result," he said.Here is how to use CoviSelf:- Buy the test from a chemist shop and download the mobile application.- Register yourself on the application and read the user manual carefully.- This process ensures patient confidentiality as their data is stored in a secure server which is linked to the ICMR database, Dr Bhargava said.- The kit will use only nasal swab to find out the presence of the infection.- A test card - part of the kit - will have two bars named C (control) and T (test).- If the bar at C section changes colour, the test is negative. If the bars at both the sections change colour, the test result is positive.- A positive test will take 5 to 7 minutes, whereas a negative result will appear in 15 minutes, according to Hasmukh Rawal, managing director, Mylab Discovery Solutions.- Conduct the test and upload the image on the application. The application will then reflect the results.- In an advisory, ICMR has said only symptomatic patients and immediate contacts of people who tested positive for the virus should use the home test kit.- Patients whose result comes out positive will have to follow the ICMR and health ministry guidelines.According to the ICMR chief, the kits will hit the market in the next three to four days. "Rapid Antigen Tests (RAT) home testing kits for Covid-19 will be available in the market in three to four days. It will help in isolation of patients during initial stages of the infection as it gives quick results," he said at a media briefing on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-self-testing-kit-to-be-in-market-next-week-here-is-how-to-use-it-101621561653433.html
21-05-2021||India||Monsoon likely to advance over Andaman Sea today||A low pressure area is likely to form over north Andaman Sea and adjoining eastcentral Bay of Bengal tomorrow (Saturday), 2021. It is very likely to intensify into a cyclonic storm, Yaas, by May 24. It very likely to move northwestwards and reach Odisha-West Bengal Coast around May 26 morning. There is a probability that Yaas intensifies further to a very severe cyclonic storm, Sunitha Devi,in charge, cyclones at IMD said.Southwest monsoon is very likely to advance over south Andaman Sea and adjoining southeast Bay of Bengal today, a day in advance compared to normal date of May 22. It is likely to make onset over Kerala on May 31, a day ahead of its normal onset date of June 1.Also Read | Delhi govt to set up oxygen plants of 300 MT for third Covid wave: CM KejriwalDue to southerly or southwesterly winds from Bay of Bengal over northeast India and cyclonic circulation over Assam at lower levels, fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy rainfall very likely over sub Himlayan West Bengal, Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam and Meghalaya today.The low pressure area (remnant of extremely severe cyclone, Tauktae) over southwest Uttar Pradesh and neighbourhood has become less marked however, the associated cyclonic circulation now lies over central parts of south Uttar Pradesh and neighbourhood. Fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls is very likely over Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar on Friday which will reduce gradually.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-likely-to-advance-over-andaman-sea-today-101621565507375.html
21-05-2021||India||These states have declared 'black fungus' a notifiable disease||Several states over the last 24 hours declared mucormycosis, a life-threatening viral infection in Covid-19 patients, a notifiable disease following the central government's advisory on Thursday.The Centre on Thursday wrote a letter to all the states and union territories asking to make mucormycosis or black fungus a notifiable disease under the Epidemic Diseases Act 1897.A notifiable disease is any disease that is required by law to be reported to government authorities. This allows the authorities to monitor the disease and provides early warning of possible outbreaks.Mucormycosis is commonly seen in Covid-19 patients who are in the recovery phase of the disease. It usually infects people whose immune system has been compromised due to comorbidities such as diabetes, kidney or heart failure or cancer.The symptoms of the fungal infection include blackening or discoloration over the nose, blurred or double vision, chest pain, breathing difficulties and coughing blood.Here is the list of states that have declared mucormycosis a notifiable disease:TelanganaTelangana was the first state to declare mucormycosis a notifiable disease. The state government gave the order on Thursday morning, hours before the Centre's advisory.OdishaOn the line of the Centre's advisory, Odisha on Thursday declared black fungus a notifiable disease under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897.KarnatakaKarnataka health minister K Sudhakar on Thursday said no hospital or medical centre with the capacity to treat mucormycosis can deny admission to patients. He made the statement while declaring it a notifiable disease. An official government order wil also be notified soon, he also said.Tamil NaduThe Tamil Nadu government declared mucormycosis a notifiable disease under the Public Health Act. It has also constituted a 10-member committee, including the Director, Medical Education with medical experts to examine the disease and give a more clear picture.RajasthanA notification for the same was issued by the state's principal health secretary Akhil Arora. In a statement on Thursday, Arora said the step was taken to ensure integrated and coordinated treatment of black fungus and the coronavirus.Rajasthan has around 100 black fungus patients as of May 19, according to state government data.Gujarat"Government and private hospitals/medical colleges treating the disease will have to follow guidelines by the Union Health Ministry as well as ICMR for screening, diagnosis & treatment," said Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani as he passed the order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/these-states-have-declared-black-fungus-a-notifiable-disease-101621565107184.html
21-05-2021||India||As Centre aims to ramp up Covid-19 testing, focus on rapid antigen tests||The central government on Thursday said that it aims to ramp up India's daily testing capacity for Covid-19 and has taken a number of steps in this regard. At a media briefing, the director general of ICMR Dr Balram Bhargava said that the government plans to push up the number of Covid-19 tests being conducted in India daily from the current 16-20 lakh to 45 lakh by end of June.The Centre is also focussing on increasing the rapid antigen tests (RATs) instead of 'gold standard' RT-PCR. Out of the target of 45 lakh tests, 18 lakh will be RT-PCR, while 27 lakh will be RATs, according to the government.Dr Bhargava said that ICMR has so far approved a home-based RAT kit manufactured by Mylab Discovery Solutions Ltd, Pune. He added that kits by three more companies are in pipeline and likely to get the approval within a week.Bhargava said kits for home testing will be available in market in 3-4 days.The ICMR chief said that in large cities, focus was mainly on RT-PCR which is the standard test but in district level the backbone of testing has been TrueNAT and CBNAAT, while in rural areas RAT is the backbone of testing."In the second wave, we have to increase the RAT testing, we have written to all chief secretaries and they have acted upon it. Multiple 24X7 RAT booths to be set up in cities, towns and villages. RATs to be allowed at all government and private healthcare facilities (no accreditation required). RAT booths to be set up with the community in schools, colleges, community centres, RWA offices etc. All RT-PCR and RAT test results should be uploaded on ICMR portal," said Dr Bhargava.Bhargava said there are 2,553 government and private Covid testing laboratories established across the country over the last 16 months.Meanwhile, more than 20.55 lakh tests were conducted in a span of 24 hours (on Thursday), the highest ever conducted in a single day in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-centre-aims-to-ramp-up-covid-19-testing-focus-on-rapid-antigen-101621563990264.html
21-05-2021||India||'Half of India isn't wearing a mask': Health ministry cites Covid-19 study||The Union health ministry said on Thursday that 50 per per cent of the country's population isn't wearing a mask, as it shared an update about Covid-19 situation in India. At the media briefing, health ministry Joint Secretary Lav Agarwal said that eight states have more than 1 lakh active cases of Covid-19, nine states have 50,000 to 1 lakh active cases and 19 states have less than 50,000 active cases of the infection.The ministry's statement on facial masks is based on a survey carried out in 25 cities, which involved 2,000 respondents.According to the survey, cited by the health ministry and posted on Twitter by the ministry of information and broadcasting, of the 50 per cent people who do not wear mask, 64 per cent cover mouth but not nose, 20 per cent have it on chin and two per cent on the neck.Only 14 per cent people wear the mask correctly, said the survey, which covers nose, mouth, chin and with a clip on the nose.#IndiaFightsCorona Half of India isn't wearing a mask!Around 50% Indians do not wear a #Mask today, only 7% wear it correctly - @MoHFW_INDIA quotes a study conducted in 25 cities #Unite2FightCorona #StaySafe pic.twitter.com/f85gvG1noQAgarwal, meanwhile, said that seven states in the country have more than 25 per cent positivity rate, while nine states have between 20-25 positivity rate. Twenty-two states have more than 15 per cent positivity rate, 13 states have five to 15 per cent positivity rate and one state has less than five per cent positivity, he added.Tamil Nadu, Meghalaya Tripura, Manipur, Nagaland, Sikkim, Mizoram are states showing a rise in cases and rise in positivity in last three weeks, the health ministry official said.He also said that India has witnessed a consistent upward trend in weekly tests since mid-February with average daily tests increased by 2.3 times in last 12 weeks.ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava, who was also present at the briefing, said that 2,553 government and private Covid testing laboratories have been established across the country in the last 16 months.The remark came on a day when more than 20.55 lakh tests were conducted in India in a span of 24 hours, the highest ever conducted in a single day in the country.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/half-of-india-isn-t-wearing-a-mask-health-ministry-cites-covid-19-study-101621562163753.html
21-05-2021||India||Black fungus: Here is a list of states with highest number of mucormycosis cases||Mucormycosis, a new cause for worry after the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infection, has infected at least 7,250 people in India. Also known as black fungus, the infection is a Covid-19 complication which has killed at least 219 people in the country, according to the figures shared by officials in 13 states and Union territories with HT.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageOn Thursday, the Central government said the states should declare the disease notifiable under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, meanwhile, has called for three government hospitals in the city - Lok Nayak, GTB and Rajeev Gandhi hospitals - to be set up dedicated centres for black fungus cases.Here is the list of states with highest number of black fungus:The mucormycosis infections, which was rare when it first emerged, has resulted in high demand for the anti-fungal drug Amphotericin B, used to treat mucormycosis. The Delhi high court on Thursday suggested that the Centre procures the drug internationally to meet the demand in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/black-fungus-states-with-highest-number-of-mucormycosis-cases-101621559394002.html
21-05-2021||India||Covid-19: Ban on inter-district movement comes into effect in Assam||The inter-district transport services and movement of people across the state will be restricted in Assam starting Friday as a state government order comes into effect. The curbs have been imposed to control the spiralling number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases.The restrictions came into effect from 5am on Tuesday, except for a set of exemptions, as per an order of the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA).The order was passed on Monday, when Assam reported its single-day highest 92 Covid-19 deaths and 6,394 cases of the disease in a 24-hour span - the highest till then."Whereas, it has been observed that with unabated inter- district movement, the COVID-19 containment measures are not yielding the desired level of reduction in COVID-19 cases," the ASDMA said in its order. Accordingly, the government ordered to suspend all inter-district transport services for 15 days.Those exempted from the ban include government officials, emergency and essential services, and those travelling for medical emergencies and Covid-19 vaccination.Movement of goods will also remain unaffected. Those requiring travel for medical emergencies, last rites will be allowed with written permission from the authorities of the originating district.Earlier on Saturday, the Assam government had announced tightening of restrictions in urban and semi-urban areas with movement of people and vehicles banned from 12 noon to 5am, while imposing night curfew in the rest of the state from 6pm to 5am.The state government has so far not decided to impose a total lockdown, though some experts have suggested the measure to check the spread of Covid-19.On Thursday (May 20), Assam recorded 74 deaths due to Covid-19, and its tally rose by a record 6,573. The statewide infection tally now stands at 3,53,574, according to National Health Mission (NHM).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-ban-on-inter-district-movement-comes-into-effect-in-assam-101621560808023.html
21-05-2021||India||‘India-China ties at crossroads... tensions continue on LAC’: S Jaishankar||The India-China relationship is at the crossroads and New Delhi cannot think of cooperating with Beijing in other areas as long as tensions continue on the Line of Actual Control (LAC), external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Thursday.The external affairs ministry added that the process of disengagement of Indian and Chinese troops at friction points in Ladakh sector remains “unfinished” and that full restoration of peace and tranquillity in border areas alone will lead to progress in bilateral ties.Jaishankar’s remarks, made during a virtual interview at the FT-Indian Express webinar, came in the wake of calls by the Chinese leadership for setting aside the border standoff that began a year ago and focusing on cooperation in other areas such as trade and investment.He accused China of moving away from the consensus on stabilising the border, which emerged from former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi’s groundbreaking visit to China in 1988. This consensus led to important border agreements in 1993 and 1996 that created three decades of peace and tranquillity on the LAC, he noted. “I think the relationship is at a crossroads and which direction we go depends on whether the Chinese side would adhere to the consensus, whether it would follow through on the agreements which we both have done for so many decades,” Jaishankar said, adding: “Because what is very clear in the last year is that border tensions cannot continue with cooperation in other areas.”“If there is continuing friction at the border, then it is going to tell on the relationship,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indiachina-ties-at-crossroads-tensions-continue-on-lac-s-jaishankar-101621559432873.html
21-05-2021||India||Farmer who died at Singhu border had Covid-19: Officials||A 50-year-old Punjab farmer, who died at the Singhu border protest site on the outskirts of Delhi on Tuesday night, tested positive for Covid-19, said Sonepat health officials.Jai Bhagwan Jattan, principal medical officer of Sonepat civil hospital, confirmed that the deceased farmer, Balbir Singh of Patiala had tested positive for the viral infection.“The patient had high fever and was diabetic. We have informed the farmers about his Covid report,” the medical officer added.After anti-farm law protesters at the site were informed that the deceased farmer had tested positive for the infection, they gathered outside the civil hospital and shouted slogans against the administration for collecting the farmer’s samples after his death.“The government wants to create a fear of the virus among farmers camping at borders and Balbir’s positive report is an outcome of that. If the Sonepat administration tries to repeat such acts, we will lodge a protest against them,” senior farmer leader Jagjeet Singh, said.The victim’s body was sent to his village in Patiala in an ambulance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmer-who-died-at-singhu-border-had-covid-19-officials-101621559644570.html
21-05-2021||India||Covid-19: PM Modi to interact with doctors, front line workers in Varanasi today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will virtually interact with doctors, nurses, paramedical staff and other front line workers in Uttar Pradesh's Varanasi at 11am on Friday."At 11 AM tomorrow, 21st May, will be interacting with doctors and frontline workers who are working tirelessly to contain COVID-19 in Kashi," PM Modi said on his Twitter account on Thursday.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageHe will also take stock of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in the city and review the workings of various Covid-19 hospitals including Pandit Rajan Mishra Covid Hospital, which was recently started through the joint efforts of the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and the Indian Army, according to a government release.He will also assess the conditions at non-Covid-19 hospitals of Varanasi.At 11 AM tomorrow, 21st May, will be interacting with doctors and frontline workers who are working tirelessly to contain COVID-19 in Kashi. https://t.co/RuopsFsKNrActive cases of Covid-19 have been going down in Uttar Pradesh with the state having recorded 238 fresh deaths and 6,725 new cases, which took the toll to 18,590 and pushed the total infection tally to 16,51,532 on Thursday."The recovery rate of the state is improving. It is now 91.8 per cent. The active cases in the state in past 20 days have come down by 62.5 per cent," news agency PTI quoted Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary (health). On April 30, there were 3,10,783 active cases of Covid-19 and the number has now come down to 1,16,434, he added.Meanwhile, India on Thursday recorded 276,110 new cases of the disease, according to the Union health ministry data. The total tally of Covid-19 infection in the country now stands at 25,772,440, and the death toll at 287,122.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-pm-modi-to-interact-with-doctors-front-line-workers-in-varanasi-today-101621556064670.html
21-05-2021||India||‘Felt insulted’: Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee hits out after meeting with PM Modi||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday described a meeting held by Prime Minister Narendra Modi with chief ministers and district magistrates of 10 states on the Covid situation as “casual and super flop”. She said no discussions were held on the supply of vaccines, medicines, and oxygen or on the black fungus infection (mucormycosis).This was the PM Modi’s second virtual meeting after May 18 with chief ministers and district magistrates to review the situation in states where the Covid-19 caseload is high.But Banerjee said she and the others who attended the meeting felt insulted. “All the chief ministers were sitting like puppets, and none was allowed to say a single word. We felt insulted. Only four to five district magistrates, mostly from BJP-ruled states, were allowed to speak. The meeting ended with the Prime Minister’s speech, in which he claimed that Covid-19 cases were going down,” she said.The Trinamool leader said she was running a state, “but Delhi’s Shahenshah is not even looking at us and just saying ‘Sab thik hai’ (all is well)”.“When representatives of Uttar Pradesh spoke in the meeting the PM said, ‘Bahut badhiya chal raha hai’ (everything is running well), without raising any question why corpses were being dumped in the river,” Banerjee said, referring to the recent spate of bodies found floating in the Ganga and buried in the sand in UP and Bihar.The BJP shot back, accusing the CM of being disinterested in administration: a charge levelled earlier during electioneering ahead of the state assembly polls by top party leaders.“Today, our respected CM @MamataOfficial has once again shown her total disinterest in administration. True to her style, she has politicised a meeting Hon’ble PM @narendramodi held with District Officials, where grassroots level practices to fight COVID-19 were being discussed,” tweeted BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari, leader of opposition in the West Bengal assembly.He also contested Banerjee’s claim of only representatives of BJP-ruled states getting the chance to speak by claiming in another tweet that five of the seven district officials who spoke represented non-BJP states of Chhattisgarh, Kerala, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, and Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/felt-insulted-bengal-cm-mamata-banerjee-hits-out-after-meeting-with-pm-modi-101621556449182.html
21-05-2021||India||Oxygen demand rises in southern states, Odisha and Assam||The allocation of medical oxygen to Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and Assam has gone up, amid a surge in the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in some of these states, officials familiar with the matter said.All India Industrial Gases Manufacturer’s Association (AIIGMA) president Saket Tiku confirmed that the demand from the states has increased as cases have increased there too.“The demand for oxygen [in the states] went from 850 MT in March last year, to nearly 3,000 MT in September 2020,” Tiku said. “There is now sale of nearly 9,000 MT per day. These are approximate figures. But now, there is no shortage, and the demand is being met.”According to a government official who spoke on the condition of anonymity, the buffer stock in Kerala has been ramped up in the last two days to ensure enough medical oxygen is available for the state. “The allocation is dynamic,” said the official. “It comes in response to which state requires how much medical oxygen in view of the active cases.”The O2 allocation to Tamil Nadu has gone up from 220 metric tonne (MT) in April, according to government data, to 650-700 MT being supplied to the state daily, said AIIGMA. In Kerala, the allocation last month was 99 MT, and the daily supply now is around 400 MT. Odisha and Assam (data for which is clubbed with the rest of the northeastern states), which did not even figure in the medical oxygen supply states, are now consuming nearly 150-160 MT and 90-100 MT respectively.Tiku said that even as the demand was falling in Maharashtra and Delhi, southern states, including Karnataka and Telangana had also asked for greater stocks.Kerala reported 8,196 cases on Thursday, Tamil Nadu 42,033, Andhra Pradesh 22,842, Odisha 152,824 and Assam 50,488.According to the data with the Oxygen Digital Tracking System, nearly 155,582 MT of medical oxygen has been allocated to states from May 1 to May 17. Of this, 128,617 MT has already been delivered, 15,388 is under transit and 14,004 is pending dispatch. The centralised repository of availability of medical oxygen was set up on directions of the empowered group of supply and logistics headed by road and transport secretary Aramane Giridhar. Nearly 74 oxygen plants and other smaller units have been boarded onto the system to facilitate end-to-end tracking of the delivery of medical oxygen.The dashboard, which can be accessed by the states, allows states to track the delivery of supplies, and even divert the delivery to a different destination based on requirements and active caseload, the official mentioned above said.“The system has been installed to bring transparency to the delivery process,” the official said. It uses GPS and SIM-based tracking to generate the data, which is also integrated with the road and transport ministry’s SAARTHI service.On May 17, 9,800 MT of liquid oxygen was allocated to different states. Over 300 special oxygen trains have already managed to supply 12,000 MT, the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oxygen-demand-rises-in-southern-states-odisha-and-assam-101621556557264.html
21-05-2021||India||India invited to join G7 health ministers' summit virtually: UK Govt||India is among the guest countries invited to join virtually at the 2021 G7 Health Ministers’ Meeting to be held at Oxford University on June 3 and 4 to bring together the world's leading democracies to agree on life-saving action in critical areas of global health, the UK government announced on Thursday.The University of Oxford has been chosen for its role at the heart of the global fight against Covid-19, with world-leading clinical trials and its not-for-profit partnership with AstraZeneca on Covid-19 vaccines.Attendees will come together to address the issues of global health security, antimicrobial resistance, clinical trials, and digital health and the discussions will inform the G7 Leaders’ Summit in Cornwall a week later between June 11 and 13.“Oxford is the birthplace of the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine and at the heart of British life sciences. Oxford is a perfect location to stage pivotal meetings on how the world readies itself to combat future health threats,” said UK Health Secretary Matt Hancock.“Collectively we can build back better from this virus and, as I gather with my Ministerial counterparts from the major democratic nations, we have an opportunity to learn from this pandemic and take measures that will develop global health security,” he said.The summit forms part of the UK’s 2021 presidency of the Group of Seven – which includes the UK, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the US and the European Union – and will bring together health ministers from these nations in a physical setting.However, the UK government said that the two-day talks will also engage virtually with the G7 Presidency’s guest countries – India, South Korea, Australia and South Africa.“Oxford University is honoured to host the G7 Health Ministers. This past year has demonstrated just how much can be accomplished when universities, business and government work together to advance global health,” said Professor Louise Richardson, Vice-Chancellor of the University of Oxford.“We hope that in the course of this meeting insights and information will be shared, ideas generated, and lasting partnerships forged. In particular, we hope that as a result of this meeting plans will be developed to ensure that we are never again caught unprepared for a pandemic,” she said.There will be a working ministerial dinner on the evening of June 3 attended by senior representatives from the life sciences industry, who are planning to convene concurrently in Oxford to discuss the themes under the UK Prime Minister’s Pandemic Preparedness Partnership between public and private sectors and key issues on the health agenda for the summit.“As a county with a world-class reputation for cutting-edge research and innovation in life sciences and healthcare, we look forward to welcoming our guests and hope that their time here contributes to strengthening partnerships and boosting collaboration in managing current and future global health threats,” said Councillor Liz Leffman, Oxfordshire County Council Leader.Oxford City Council Leader, Councillor Susan Brown, added: “Our city has rightly become synonymous with excellence in life science research and manufacturing. We are proud that Oxford’s name is carried by the vaccine used most widely across the world.“There is a real opportunity for those gathered to step up international support for the vaccination programmes still only in their early stages in many developing countries, particularly in Africa.”G7 countries account for two thirds of the world’s pharmaceutical markets and the three vaccines licensed for use in the UK were all developed in G7 nations – the UK, US and Germany.As host of this year’s G7 Presidency, the UK says it is determined to work with its partners to "build back better" from coronavirus and strengthen global preparedness for potential future pandemics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-invited-to-join-g7-health-ministers-summit-virtually-uk-govt-101621556217734.html
21-05-2021||India||Odisha govt declares black fungus as notifiable disease under Epidemic Act||The Odisha government on Thursday declared mucormycosis, a rare fungal infection caused by a group of molds, as a notifiable disease under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, the health and welfare department said in a statement.Several Covid-19 patients across the country were, of late, found to have contracted the potentially fatal infection.On May 10, the Odisha government had announced that the first case of mucormycosis, commonly called 'black fungus', has been detected in the state.A state-level task force committee was promptly constituted for early detection and management of such cases.The panel has duly suggested a protocol for identification, treatment and follow up action.It has also asked authorities concerned to generate awareness on the fungal disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-govt-declares-black-fungus-as-notifiable-disease-under-epidemic-act-101621555823691.html
21-05-2021||India||Highest motorable village gives Covid vaccine doses to all 45+||At 4,587 metre above sea level, it’s the world’s highest village connected by a motorable road. But Komic, in Himachal Pradesh’s remote Spiti Valley, is now famous for another reason: all residents aged 45 years and above have been vaccinated for Covid-19.Komic, another village Hikkim, and Langza, the largest of the three, together comprise Langza panchayat, with a population of 330. Of that, 101 (over the age of 60) and 150 (over 45) have been vaccinated, according to officials.The panchayat in itself is one of 13 that are part of the larger Kaza block, and where 89% of health care workers, and 79% of those over the age of 60 have been fully vaccinated; and 95% of the population in the 45-plus age group has received one dose. The total population of the block is around 3,500.In Komic, with a population of 60 people, the proportion is 100% for everyone aged over 45 (20).“We are happy that the villagers have taken their second dose, too,” says Kaza block medical officer Tenzin Norbu.Despite cases of the viral illness in the region being rare, villagers say they rarely leave their houses and adhere strictly to Covid-19 guidelines to protect themselves against the disease.“If we walk out of our houses, it’s only for farming. The older generation stays home with the children,” says 37-year-old Komic resident Palzor, who goes only by one name.A health department team -- comprising health care worker Prem Singh (who administers the vaccine), verifier Kulwant Singh (who maintains record of the people being given the shots) and Accredited Social Health Activist Padma -- has been visiting the high-altitude villages in the Langza panchayat to vaccinate all residents since January this year.Climbing over connectivity challengeDespite enthusiasm among the residents, it hasn’t been easy for authorities.“After seniors, now young people are enthusiastic about getting vaccinated. The challenge in this area is limited internet connectivity, so it becomes difficult for them to log on to the Co-Win portal to get registered,” says Padma, the ASHA worker who has been visiting the area.At the core of India’s mammoth vaccination drive, which began on January 16, is the Co-Win digital platform where users have to register to get vaccination slots. The norms allow people in the 45-plus age group and other high-risk groups to turn up at vaccination centres without prior registrations. However, walk-in inoculations are not allowed for the younger age groups so far.Kaza additional district magistrate Gian Sagar Negi says the state government was requested this month to permit offline registration for vaccinations, and it was subsequently allowed.“Now 80% of the registration for vaccination is being done offline. Booking is done by calling up the health department and the slot is allotted based on lottery; 20% of the registration are still being done online but everyone has to first register for vaccination,” Lahaul and Spiti deputy commissioner Pankaj Rai says. Till Thursday evening, 12,387 doses of the vaccine had been given in the district with a population of 31,564.Kaza leading the wayDespite its tough, rocky terrain that receives heavy snowfall at regular intervals through the year, the Kaza block, has taken the lead on vaccination in the district. “People have no hesitancy in getting inoculated as they know that the health infrastructure in the region is limited. Everyone here wants to be protected from the virus,” says Padma.“In the tribal regions and those inaccessible by road we would depute more staff and the registrations are now being made offline,” says Dr Nipun Jindal, director of National Rural Health Mission in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/highest-motorable-village-gives-covid-vaccine-doses-to-all-45-101621554245258.html
21-05-2021||India||PM Modi stresses on need to keep up Covid guard||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday asked officials to record the spread of coronavirus among young people and children, cautioning that the fight against the pandemic will continue so long as the disease remains even in a small area of the country.Speaking to district magistrates, local officials and chief ministers of some states, Modi said India’s battle against Covid-19 required continuous change and upgradation of plans and innovation. He said vaccine supplies would be strengthened, emphasised the need to save the villages and sought ideas and practices to tackle the pandemic. “This virus is famous for changing itself through mutations. It is like a bahurupia (shape-shifter) and clever as well. So, our strategies and plans should also be dynamic,” he said.Modi said there was a need to prevent vaccine wastage and added that every dose wasted was denying someone protection shield against the disease.He commended the Union health ministry’s plan of providing states with vaccine stocks that will last 15 days and called for a need for a vaccination calendar.Also Read| Mylab launches home testing kits for Covid-19 priced at ₹250 per pieceHe added that more transparency in the supply of vaccines will make the inoculation campaign easier.“With clarity about vaccination supply and timeline being available, vaccination management will become easier for you,” he saidIn his earlier meeting with district administrators on Tuesday, Modi called them the “field commanders” in the fight against the pandemic and spoke about their determination when they cleared the civil services exams.The meeting came at a time the second wave of infections is receding in many parts of India, with daily infections and positivity rates falling from their peaks. But experts have warned that the virus has ravaged the hinterlands and advised a more robust vaccination plan.Modi’s meeting was also attended by chief ministers of four states.In the meeting, Modi said sensitivity and patience were essential in this battle and called earning people’s trust the key to success.He urged the district administrators to reach out to the people and convince them to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour to curb the spread. “Your presence, your speeches can remove fear among people.”Modi urged the magistrates to find unique solutions to their local problems and to do a separate analysis of the spread of the virus in tier two and three cities. He expressed confidence that a solution to check the virus from spreading in the rural areas can be found.Also Read| Covid-19: What you need to know today“My experience says that if you convey the right things at the right time, people will follow religiously.”The officials who interacted with Modi via video-conferencing were from Chhattisgarh, Haryana, Kerala, Maharashtra, Odisha, Puducherry, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh.The Prime Minister has been holding a series of meeting with CMs, governors and other state officials amid the second wave to assess the ground situation and take stock of the states’ demands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-stresses-on-need-to-keep-up-covid-guard-101621551981316.html
21-05-2021||India||How different regions are faring in Covid-19 vaccination||Until May 19, India had administered at least 186 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines in all, according to the CoWIN dashboard. At least 145 million of these were first doses and 41 million were second doses. Put otherwise, India has fully vaccinated 41 million people, and has given at least one dose to 145 million more.According to population projections made for March 2021 by the National Commission on Population, this translates to a total of around 14 doses per 100 population, with 10.7% of the population having received at least the first dose and 3% having received both doses. These headline numbers, however, hide a wide variation across different regions.1. 70% of districts have received less than 20 doses per 100 populationOfficial estimates of district-level population are not available. However, even the 2011 census data can offer insights into the variation in vaccination coverage across districts. This shows that 70% or 448 of 639 districts in the census have received only up to 20 doses per 100 population. Almost 2/3rd of the 187 districts where the coverage is only up to 10 doses per 100 population are in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, and Tamil Nadu, and not just because of the large number of districts in these states. Over 80% of districts in these three states have administered only up to 10 doses per 100 population.Also Read| Bharat Biotech to ramp up Covaxin production by additional 200 million dosesTo be sure, there are also 12 districts where the coverage is over 40 doses per 100 population. Three of them (the Central and New Delhi census districts of Delhi and Gurgaon) are, however, in the National Capital Region, where people travelling from neighbouring areas to get a jab might have inflated the coverage data.2. Universal coverage doesn’t always translate into vulnerable population coverage2021 population projections at the state level confirm the findings of the district level data. Himachal Pradesh, Kerala, Uttarakhand and Delhi have administered the highest doses per capita; and Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, and Tamil Nadu have administered the least. But a break-up by age suggests not all states with the highest universal coverage have covered the highest share of their older population.For example, the top 10 states (north eastern states except Assam merged as one) by share of population covered by at least one dose (a split by age is available from the Co-WIN dashboard for this) among the 22 states for which we have population projections are Himachal Pradesh, Kerala, Delhi, Uttarakhand, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Rajasthan, the seven north-eastern states, and Haryana. Himachal, which is about 7 percentage points ahead of Kerala, has done well in covering its 45-plus population too.Also Read| Covishield versus Covaxin: What government says about comparing two Covid jabsOver 3/4th of this age group has been covered by at least one dose although the share of 45+ population in the state (30.6%) is the third highest among the 22 states. The remaining nine states have covered roughly similar shares of their total population (14% to 19%) with at least one dose. However, the difference in the coverage of their respective 45+ populations is much bigger. Kerala, for instance, has covered only 46% of its 45+ population and Chhattisgarh, 66%. This is because Chhattisgarh has a smaller 45+ population (23.6% of total population) and Kerala the highest (36%). Rajasthan and Uttarakhand are similarly ahead in inoculating a higher share of their older population among states with similar levels of universal coverage because of a younger population.But Delhi, Uttarakhand, the north-eastern states, and Haryana are not. They are, however, ahead of their peers in vaccinating their younger population, despite having the highest, 4th highest, 2nd highest, and 6th highest share of 18-44 population, respectively among the 22 states.3. Supply may have halted progress in vaccinating evenTo be sure, vaccine supply might have played a role in these age-specific trends in inoculation. It was only on April 1 that vaccination was opened completely for the 45-60 age group and India’s vaccination speed reduced two weeks after that. This could have prevented states from vaccinating the freshly eligible older population. 74% of the 45+ age group vaccinated until May 19 had been vaccinated by April 15. Even in the 18-44 age group, 45% of those vaccinated so far had been vaccinated by April 15 (younger healthcare and frontline workers were among the first to get vaccinated), although general vaccination for this age group was opened up only on May 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-different-regions-are-faring-in-covid-19-vaccination-101621551060334.html
21-05-2021||India||India faces black fungus epidemic as cases climb||At least 7,250 people are confirmed to have mucormycosis in India but the actual spread may be much wider, and authorities in several states have now sounded the alarm on the rare life-threatening disease that is rapidly popping up across the country as a Covid-19 complication.At least 219 deaths have been recorded due to mucormycosis, as per figures shared by officials in 13 states and Union territories with HT. The Union government said on Thursday that states should declare the disease notifiable under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, making it mandatory for all medical facilities to report infections to a central disease surveillance network. The Delhi government separately decided to set up special treatment facilities in three of its hospitals.“We have asked states to add mucormycosis as a notifiable disease under the epidemic diseases act as in a communication to states yesterday (Wednesday). Doing so makes it mandatory for all hospitals to report cases so that we can consolidate data about it, and also ensures the screening, diagnosis and treatment is followed as per protocols of the Union government and Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR),” said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, Union health ministry, during a routine press briefing.The Centre told the Delhi high court on Thursday that as of May 19, there were 7,251 people with mucormycosis in India, of which 200 were in Delhi.Mucormycosis is a fungal infection with a fatality rate of at least 50%. Typically a rare disease, experts and doctors say thousands have now contracted it because of an overuse of steroids or due to suppression of their immune system, which is often a fallout of attempts to stop the life-threatening immune overreaction due to Covid-19.ICMR director-general Balram Bhargava said these infections are of fungal spores that typically exist in abundance in the environment. “If a person’s immunity is suppressed, it will infect them. If the spores have access to high sugar, it will grow. We have seen this happen with Covid-19 patients with diabetes and uncontrolled sugar, or who are immuno-compromised or have been given immune-suppressants,” he added.Also Read| ‘Get black fungus medicine from wherever in world’: Delhi HC to CentreSeveral states are scrambling to place orders for the life-saving drugs required for it, and a Union minister announced manufacturing was being stepped up. According to the Union government’s lawyers at the Delhi high court, which asked the Centre to submit a report on steps taken to import drugs for it, the supplies of Amphotericin B, the only last line drug that can treat it, are being distributed on the basis of caseloads. The court was hearing a clutch of petitions for better Covid-19 management, and one of the petitioners mentioned the shortage of, and clamour for, Amphotericin B.The Centre’s counsels Kirtiman Singh and Amit Mahajan told the court that as per the case load, 3,150 vials have been released to the Capital in three tranches between May 11 and May 20. To this, the Delhi government’s lawyer, senior advocate Rahul Mehra, said that the projected weekly demand was 15,000 vials.“We are not questioning your allocation…you are doing good work… You need to import this to bridge the gap between your plan to enhance the capacity and completing manufacture before we lose more precious lives. So act fast on this…Float a global tender and ask internationally….Make a global enquiry,” a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh told the Centre’s lawyers.Meanwhile, on Thursday, Mansukh Mandaviya, who is the Union minister of state for chemicals and fertilisers, said in a tweet: “Black Fungus (Mucormycosis) curing drug #AmphotericinB’s shortage will be resolved soon! Within three days, 5 more Pharma companies have got New Drug Approval for producing it in India, in addition to the existing 6 pharma companies”.The shortage has been triggered by an unprecedented surge in cases, which often requires one patient to be treated with multiple vials of the antifungal drug. Experts at Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) said on Wednesday they would normally see 10-15 cases a year, but have now received over 100 cases this month itself.Also Read| After black fungus, reports of white fungus infections surface. What we know“Cannot talk about disease incidence as such but in our clinical life we would see maximum five to seven such patients in the intensive care units. It was rare,” said Dr Anjan Trikha, professor, department of anesthesia, critical care and pain medicine, AIIMS, Delhi on Thursday.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said he has directed three government-run hospitals in Delhi to set up dedicated centres for mucormycosis cases, while promising to ensure adequate supply of medicines needed to treat the disease.The facilities will be at Lok Nayak Hospital, Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital, and Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital.Delhi has in place a four-member technical committee to “streamline and systemise” the distribution of Amphotericin-B. Hospitals need to raise requests for supply with this committee. After an approval, the Directorate General of Health Services issues the drug to the representative of the facility.Even though it has not been yet established whether the virus that causes Covid-19 is directly responsible for growing cases, clinicians say several factors found in Covid-19 patients could lead to the secondary infection.“Mucormycosis needs a fertile soil to grow, and high blood glucose levels, lack of oxygen, acidosis and suppressed immunity all contributes towards the growth. In Covid-19 patients there is a high probability of having all these factors that perhaps is leading to increase in cases,” said Dr Ambrish Mithal, chairman, department of endocrinology and diabetes, Max Healthcare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-faces-black-fungus-epidemic-as-cases-climb-101621550432802.html
21-05-2021||India||Andhra defends sedition case against YSRCP MP||The Andhra Pradesh government has denied torturing rebel YSR Congress Party Member of Parliament KR Krishnam Raju who is currently in police custody for sedition charge. Raju had approached the Supreme Court for bail early this week and sought urgent medical examination claiming that the Crime Investigation Department (CID) had tortured him in custody following his arrest on May 14.Raju, who belongs to the ruling party in the state had claimed witch-hunt by Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy after he openly criticized the Government’s handling of the COVID-19 crisis and even demanded cancellation of bail granted to the Chief Minister in a corruption case. Raju claimed that he was a victim of political vengeance and had no faith in the state government-constituted Medical Board set up by the Andhra Pradesh High Court to examine him.Filing a response to Raju’s plea, the state government through advocate Mahfooz A Nazki said, “The allegations about police torture are completely false and have been made pursuant to a design and are aimed solely to create euphoria around the arrest. Had there been an iota of truth in such allegations, the State would not have consented to examination of the petitioner (Raju).”The statement of the state government assumes significance as it comes ahead of a crucial hearing in Supreme Court on Raju’s bail plea. On May 17, the Supreme Court had directed the Army Hospital, Secunderabad to form a medical board and examine the MP, video-graph the entire proceedings and submit its report to the Registrar General of the Telangana High Court in a sealed cover. This report will be opened by the Supreme Court on Friday based on which the Court will ascertain whether there was any truth in Raju’s allegation.Referring to the various speeches and statements given by Raju on public forums, the state justified its action of registering FIR against the Member of Parliament. It said, “It is not a one-time slip or an error of judgment but the statements (by Raju) have been made in furtherance of a deliberate design and a conspiracy hatched by several individuals including the petitioner herein to create unrest in the State by dividing people on the basis of caste and religion.”In doing so, Raju abused his authority and reach as a public person to create enmity between various class of citizens and excite disaffection towards the government, the state maintained. The affidavit further stated that being a MP does not offer any immunity to the petitioner. “On the contrary, being an elected representative to the Lok Sabha, the Petitioner owes a higher level of responsibility,” state submitted.Raju in his petition filed through advocate Tatini Basu had claimed that his right to criticize the government was part of his fundamental right to free speech. But the state put a rider that such a right cannot extend to “creating a situation where public order is disturbed”. It produced speeches made by Raju over the past one year encouraging people of one religious community to beat and kill members of another religious group.“The arrest was not a knee jerk reaction,” the state claimed. The words and actions of the petitioner MP were manifesting in actual violence across the state. It was then the state decided to register FIR. “It is a settled position of law that the police can register an offence suo moto….The petitioner cannot be heard to say that the state ought to have waited with folded hands till an actual complaint was filed,” the state government added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-defends-sedition-case-against-ysrcp-mp-101621538024870.html
21-05-2021||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||India has reported 287,160 deaths from the coronavirus disease till May 19. Of these, 75,305, or a little over 26%, were recorded in the first 19 days of May. By the end of May, India would have reported at least 100,000 deaths for the month. No country, not the US, not Brazil, has reported more deaths in a month. And anecdotally, the divergence between reported and actual deaths is likely to have been the most in the month.In a previous column, I sought to put an estimate to the extent of underreporting (Dispatch, May 3), arriving at a range of 1.03 to 3.10 times the reported number of deaths for the actual death toll. I surmised at the time that the midpoint of this range was the most likely extent of underreporting (my view hasn’t changed, despite far more sophisticated estimations that have since emerged).The number of deaths isn’t surprising because India has seen 6,608,317 cases, or a little under 26% of the 25,771,260 cases it has reported to date, in the first 19 days of May. Since deaths lag cases by around two weeks, it is likely that the gap between these two, the proportion of cases reported in May to the overall number of cases, and the proportion of deaths reported in May to the overall deaths, widens, with the latter inching up and the former down.Also Read| MHA asks states to help vulnerable sections, kids orphaned due to Covid-19The 75,305 deaths translate into 56 per million in the first 19 days of May, and if the month sees 100,000 deaths (it will exceed that), it would translate into 74 deaths per million. In comparison, the US saw almost 300 deaths per million in its worst month, January. Based on data for the first 19 days of the month (see table), only Goa and Delhi exceed the US number, but as I have written previously in this column, a death is a death and only statisticians and apologists look for per-million comparisons as if this were a measure of the degree of suffering. And in May, India has suffered. That and the high number of deaths in the month so far are the likely reasons why coverage of India’s handling of the second wave of the pandemic has been sharply critical in both domestic and foreign media. And it’s the reason photographs of hundreds of funeral pyres and bodies buried in shallow graves on the banks of rivers (with a piece of coloured cloth to mark each) have gone viral. In many ways, May has been the cruelest month – for everyone.May’s death toll can be attributed to three factors, which, in turn, point to three lapses: one, the emergence of variants (and the inadequate surveillance of variants); two, the non-adherence to Covid safety protocols such as social distancing (and the carelessness, complacency, and easing of restrictions that allowed these); and three, the low level of vaccination (and a flawed vaccine drive). Compounding these were other factors, such as inadequate health care infrastructure, the lack of a plan to deal with a rush of cases (few states adopted triaging), and unavailability of crucial medical inputs such as oxygen and medicines when and where they were needed the most. There are learnings all around – provided we are willing to accept that mistakes were made, and that people lost their lives as a result.Also Read| PM Narendra Modi asks for constant upgradation of ideas to defeat Covid-19PS: There has been a spate of reports comparing deaths this year to deaths in the corresponding month last year, but this approach runs the risk of being inaccurate simply because last year’s 68-day hard lockdown saw few people stepping out of homes, even to obtain death certificates in April and May. A better approach would be to use the long-term average of deaths – as long as this data is available.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-what-you-need-to-know-today-101621537568986.html
21-05-2021||India||BBMP differs on proposed health directorate taking over Covid duties in city||Bengaluru: Even as Bengaluru continues to fight the surging second wave of Covid-19 pandemic, the state government is working on the creation of Bengaluru Health Directorate, to be constituted under the department of health and family welfare, which will take over the Covid-19 duties from the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP). While the government thinks Bengaluru requires a better healthcare system, officials of the BBMP feel that changing the healthcare duties during a pandemic could be counterproductive. Deputy chief minister CN Ashwath Narayan, who also heads the state’s Covid-19 task force, said the committee is looking at the technicalities of the change in roles and it will submit a report during the next meeting of the task force. “Healthcare in the city has been found wanting during the pandemic. We propose to build a 100-bed, hi-tech hospital in every assembly segment and a super-speciality hospital for every four assembly segments. There are many agencies carrying out public health functions in the city. The new directorate will bring them all under one umbrella,” said Narayan. While many in the government said it was much needed, BBMP officials are opposed to it. Bengaluru has 144 primary health care centres (PHCs), six referral hospitals, 26 maternity hospitals, eight tertiary hospitals. While the PHCs come under BBMP, others are already run by the health department and department of medical education, argued a senior health department official, on the condition of anonymity. “There is a feeling that BBMP is unable to provide the healthcare the city requires. There was an earlier to plan to bring all hospitals under BBMP. Now the proposal is to make a separate directorate, under the department of health, which will exclusively look at Bengaluru’s healthcare need. Of course, the final decision on the matter is yet to taken by the government,” the official said. The BBMP, however, opposes the decision claiming under the 74th amendment of the Constitution, healthcare should be with the urban local body and not a government department. “The 74th constitutional amendment talks about the devolution of powers to urban local bodies. It mandates that the urban local body have a decisive role in planning, provision and delivery of services, which includes health. In Bengaluru’s case, it is BBMP. So, it will not be constitutional to take these powers away from BBMP,” said a senior BBMP official, who didn’t wish to be named. Another BBMP official added that changing the system while the city is dealing with a pandemic is not a wise move. “It was only recently that the state government announced its intention to decentralise the fight against the pandemic and empower wards, on the lines of Kerala and Mumbai models. After announcing such a decision, taking powers away from the local body doesn’t make sense,” he said. Meanwhile, a senior bureaucrat clarified that the new proposal will not be in violation of 74th amendment since a new directorate specific to Bengaluru will be created. “To give an example the electricity in the city is provided by Bangalore Electricity Supply Company Limited (BESCOM). It is independent of the BBMP. So the new directorate will be similar,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bbmp-differs-on-proposed-health-directorate-taking-over-covid-duties-in-city-101621537904837.html
21-05-2021||India||CM likely to extend lockdown as Covid surge continues in K’taka||Bengaluru: Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa is likely to announce an extension of Covid-19 induced lockdown in the coming days, two officials in the know of the development said. According to them, CM Yediyurappa announcing a financial relief package of ₹1,250 crore for certain sections of people affected economically by the Covid-19 pandemic has been done keeping the extension in mind. The financial package involves a one-time payment of ₹10,000 to about 20,000 flower growers and 69,000 farmers who produce fruit and vegetables costing the exchequer a total of around ₹81.73 crore. Relief ranging from ₹2,000 to 3,000 will be provided to around 210,000 lakh licensed autorickshaw, taxi, and maxi cab drivers, and around 304,000 people working as barbers, dhobis, porters, ragpickers, potters, goldsmiths, mechanics, and domestic workers. “The cases in the city are coming down, but discontinuing the lockdown is not a practical decision since all the progress made during the last few days could be undone by reopening. Even experts believe that the lockdown should be extended,” said a senior bureaucrat, who didn’t want to be named. A minister, who is part of the state Covid task force, said that a decision will be announced a day before the lockdown ends. “The details of the extension are yet to be decided. There is a difference of opinion on whether it should be for a week or two. A decision will be taken soon,” he said. Meanwhile, one-third of the cases and fatalities since the Covid-19 outbreak in Karnataka, took place in the last two-and-a-half months when the second wave hit the state, reveals official data. According to the data, 706,449 people got infected, of which 7,980 people lost their lives between March 1 and May 15. However, since the outbreak of the pandemic last year, 21,71,931 contracted Covid, out of which 21,434 lost their lives. The data shows that 20,206 children up to the age of nine were infected in the second wave, which killed 17 of them, whereas 51,673 teenagers contracted the disease, of which 19 lost their lives. People in their twenties accounted for 153,174 infections of which 151 lost their lives. According to the data, as many as 467 people in their thirties, 1,037 in their forties, and 1,717 in their fifties died of Covid in the second wave. People above 60 years of age were the worst hit in the second wave. Out of 93,483 infected, 2,198 sexagenarians lost their lives while 1,584 people among the 28,658 infected persons in their seventies succumbed to the virus. The mortality rate among people in their 80s and 90s was very high compared to any other age group. Out of 8,165 infected octogenarians, 674 died of Covid, taking the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) to 8.3 per cent. Among those in the 90s, the CFR is 11.9 per cent with 970 infections and 115 deaths. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-likely-to-extend-lockdown-as-covid-surge-continues-in-ktaka-101621537844805.html
21-05-2021||India||Vaccine hesitancy major reason for Covid spread on campus: AMU VC||Vaccine hesitancy had played a significant role in the high incidence of Covid-19 on the university campus and subsequent deaths, said vice-chancellor of Aligarh Muslim University prof Tariq Mansoor in an appeal issued on Thursday.At least 20 serving teachers of the university lost their lives due to Covid -19 and Covid -like symptoms in recent weeks. The VC said two vaccination centres were currently operational on the campus and appealed to the AMU community to shed doubts regarding the efficacy of the vaccines in preventing any further loss of life.To recall, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath, during his recent visit to the AMU, had also pointed out that vaccination played an important role in saving lives. While condoling the deaths, the chief minister minced no words, saying most of those who died did not go for vaccination.The V-C has steadfastly stood by vaccination. He is among the few in the AMU who have had both doses of Covid-19 vaccine.The V-C has now made it a point to convince faculty members and staff to get vaccinated. He continues to appeal to faculty members, staff and those associated with the university to get inoculated.“I appeal to all AMU employees and families in eligible age groups to get vaccinated at the earliest and on top priority. It’s critical as mortalities are very few among those vaccinated. This is also true of AMU employees. JNMC, AMU is a designated vaccination centre for eligible groups. Get vaccinated. Stay safe !” reads one such appeal. His appeals also emphasise on Covid appropriate behaviour, like masking up and maintaining social distancing etc.The way the matter got highlighted has forced many to refrain from comments.A former office-bearer of the teachers’ association not wishing to be named, questioned as to why only AMU was the ‘chosen target’ when similar deaths of teachers deployed in panchayat election had taken place all over the state.“What guarantee does vaccination provide against virus attack as those having both doses of vaccine are falling prey to Covid-19?” said the faculty member who himself is in quarantine after having tested positive. He too had not gone for vaccination and blames ‘intensity’ of second wave that dashed all precautions.“Nobody doubts the quality of vaccines and studies say that harm is minimized if one gets inoculated. But it is a wrong propaganda that Muslims are not getting vaccinated for some reason whatsoever,” said the faculty member.“I do not think that staff members stayed away from vaccination because of the holy month of Ramzan. Various schools of thoughts and religious heads had clarified that there was no harm in getting vaccination during Ramzan,” said the VC.“AMU employees have been requested to provide the medical attendance scheme (MAS) details, stating whether or not they and their dependents have been inoculated against the Covid virus. These details are to be submitted shortly,” the VC said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccine-hesitancy-major-reason-for-covid-spread-on-campus-amu-vc-101621537785367.html
21-05-2021||India||Jagan govt adopts resolution against privatisation of Vizag steel plant||The Andhra Pradesh legislative assembly on Thursday unanimously passed a resolution opposing the central government’s proposal to privatise the Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited, also known as Visakhapatnam Steel Plant. The resolution was introduced by state minister for industries Mekapati Gautam Reddy during the one-day budget session in the assembly on Thursday. The resolution said it was opposing the decision of Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) for 100% strategic disinvestment of the Government of India’s shareholding in the RINL, Visakhapatnam, along with management control by way of privatisation. “The state cabinet deliberated on the issue at its meeting on February 23 and discussed the unrest among the trade unions and the general public of Visakhapatnam and decided to adopt a resolution in the assembly,” Reddy said. The resolution was adopted unanimously with a voice vote in the assembly, before it was adjourned sine die. It also resolved to seek the support of Centre to make RINL profitable calling it the pride of “Telugu People” and the state of Andhra Pradesh. The minister said the state government was supporting the cause of protecting the RINL from disinvestment, considering the sensitivity of the issue and widespread agitation by the trade unions and common public against the said proposal. He reminded that chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy had written a detailed letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on February 6, requesting to reconsider the proposal of disinvestment. “He (the CM) also suggested alternative solutions that might be helpful to address the issue of huge losses incurred by the RINL,” the minister added. Explaining the history of RINL, the minister reminded that people of the state had rallied for the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant cause, in which 32 lives were lost. The plant was commissioned and started production in 1989-90. Around 16,000 were employed as permanent and around 15,000 were employed as contact workers, thus creating huge employment for the people of Andhra Pradesh. Also, another 70,000 people were employed indirectly in various ancillary units. He said the company incurred losses of ₹4,982 crore up to 2001-02. Capital restructuring was done by the Centre in 1993 and 1998 converting its loans of ₹1,384 crore into equity and ₹2,937 crore as preference share capital. Since then, it earned continuous profits for 13 years up to 2014-15 aggregating to ₹12,958 crore, the minister said. He said RINL had achieved highest ever capacity utilisation of 6.3 million tonnes per annum against the installed capacity of 7.3 MTPA from December 2020 and started making a monthly profit of close to ₹200 crore. Continuing this performance for a further period of two years will help the financial situation immensely, the minister said. Reddy said the state government had requested the Centre to allot captive iron ore mines in Odisha to the RINL to reduce input costs and restructure its finances by converting its high interest debt of ₹22,000 crore into equity. “The Vizag steel plant stands as a testimony to the will of Telugu people and lives as an icon of Telugu achievement in our collective psyche. The government of the Andhra Pradesh is strongly against the privatisation of RINL and is ready to support the government of India, and ministry of steel to protect the jewel of the state,” Reddy added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jagan-govt-adopts-resolution-against-privatisation-of-vizag-steel-plant-101621537786010.html
21-05-2021||India||‘Financial package announced by Yediyurappa unlikely to give any relief’||BengaluruThe financial package announced by Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa as a measure of relief for those hardest hit due to the Covid-19 induced lockdown is unlikely to benefit those in dire need of it, said the members of unions for domestic workers, taxi and cab drivers, and activists among other sections.Yediyurappa announced a ₹1,250-crore package on Wednesday, largely aimed at unorganised section of workers, but lack of registration facilities for various occupations, excessive documentation requirements, rental and multiple drivers for each vehicle and technical errors on Aadhaar-linked accounts among other problems weigh in on the actual payout as against the announced relief, they added.The package comes at a time when Karnataka continues to remain in the tightening grip of the Covid-19 pandemic, forcing the government to go back on its decision to not announce a lockdown on account of unpreparedness for the impact of the imminent second wave of infections despite warnings from the state’s technical advisory committee (TAC) in November last year.“Most of our members are yet to receive relief payments from last year itself,” Tanveer Pasha, president of the Ola Uber Drivers and Owners Association said.In May last year, Yediyurappa announced a similar package of ₹1,610 crore that, among others, was aimed at providing ₹5,000 each to about 60,000 washermen, 230,000 barbers, 775,000 auto and taxi drivers.However, this time around there has been a sharp decline in the number of beneficiaries too, according to the statement by the chief minister’s office.In the case of auto, taxi, and maxi cab drivers, a one-time relief of ₹3,000 has been announced for 210,000 beneficiaries from an estimated 775,000 beneficiaries last time around.“Last time we took the full numbers and then couldn’t trace them. So this time, we stuck to those who registered,” according to a senior government official, requesting not to be named.The official, directly involved in the decision-making of the relief payout, said even the quantum of relief is lower than last year as the lockdown has been ‘brief’ compared to 2020.M Manjunath, the president of the Adarsha Auto and Taxi Drivers Union, said the total payout was made to just 210,000 people last year. This included both auto and taxi drivers.There are over 200,000 auto rickshaws in Bengaluru and another 100,000 across the state, according to estimates by unions. “We cannot understand how they estimated the total number of drivers,” Manjunath said. There are no exact statistics on the unorganised workforce in most urban centres in the country mostly due to the lack of any unions, recognition from the government, or issue of identification cards, activists and union members said.Among the most vulnerable are domestic workers, who have been forced to remain at home without pay. “Most domestic workers have no work. Now, they are giving ₹2,000. We don’t know how to even go there and take it,” Chitra, a domestic help said.There is no official data on the total number of domestic workers in Bengaluru, activists said, which adds to the confusion as to how one can avail the relief, although it is grossly insufficient. The government has announced to bear the burden of interest for three months only for farmers. However, no relief has been given to other sections that also have debt piling on account of loss of income.“We do not get loans from cooperative or nationalised banks. It is mostly NBFCs or private banks. We were hoping that they (NBFCs and private banks) would be called and warned not to harass us for payments,” Manjunath added.Nor any relief on home rentals, which is one of the biggest -- if not the biggest -- expenditure of most working households.“The relief announced by the state government shows its callous attitude. It’s mere lip-service,” Vinay Sreenivasa, advocate and member of Federation of Street Vendor Union of Bengaluru, told Hindustan Times.He adds that the government is out of touch with reality which is paying ₹2,000 as ‘relief’.“Even in terms of disbursement, there is confusion. No one knows how to get it. Government should speak to unions and workers first and understand the reality of the crisis and respond comprehensively,” Sreenivasa added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/financial-package-announced-by-yediyurappa-unlikely-to-give-any-relief-101621537784835.html
21-05-2021||India||1/3rd of all K’taka Covid deaths reported in May this year: Data||Bengaluru Even as Karnataka continues to witness a decline in new Covid-19 cases, however, the rising daily death count indicates the severity of the second wave. According to the daily health bulletin data, the first 20 days of May accounted for over one-third or 34% of all the Covid deaths in the state since March last year. While the BS Yediyurappa government is relying on the declining Covid numbers to suggest a recovery of sorts, the rising fatality rates in the state and in Bengaluru present a grim picture. Karnataka on Thursday recorded 28,869 new cases and 548 deaths with Bengaluru accounting for 9,409 cases and 289 deaths, according to the health bulletin. Data shows that Karnataka recorded at least 8,336 Covid-19 deaths since May 1 out of the total 23,854 registered in the state since March last year.According to experts, this is due to the “lag period” or the time when a patient is under the intensive care units (ICU) before succumbing to the virus.“Deaths come 14 days after the infections are reported. So the deaths you are seeing now are patients from early May when we were at the peak. When infections come down, deaths will be high,” Dr V Ravi, neurovirologist and member of state’s technical advisory committee (TAC) said.As per the data, the case fatality rate (CFR) in the state rose from 0.66% on May 1 to 1.35% on May 19, it shows. In Bengaluru, which accounts for the bulk of the state’s new infections and fatalities, CFR has increased from 0.41% between March 26 and April 1 to 1.77% between May 14 and May 20, according to data from the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP).The government has been using the decline in positivity rate, which rose from 3.95% in the last week of March to 38.27% in the second week of May, to justify that the pandemic was finally subsiding. The positivity rate has come down from 38.27% between May 6-12 to 28.86% between May 13-19, data shows.Though, there has been a lower number of daily infections, experts said that there is likely to be an increase in deaths. “As the infections come down, deaths will go up,” Dr Ravi added.The state government has enforced a lockdown till at least May 24 which is likely to get extended in a bid to control another spurt in infections , multiple people aware of the developments said.Experts said the pattern in Karnataka follows that of Maharashtra and Delhi, where infections have seen a decline while other states that experienced the second wave a little later will now witness a surge.“Even though the number of cases is expected to drop over the period of one to two weeks, at least in Bengaluru, the number of deaths will remain the same or may be a little more,” Dr CN Manjunath, senior cardiologist and Director of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research in Bengaluru said.“Lot of sick patients are undergoing treatment in the ICU. Some of them will survive and some of them will succumb. Both (decline in infections and fatalities) will not synchronise,” Manjunath, who is also a member of TAC, said.While Bengaluru has seen its daily caseload decline over the last one week, there has been a significant drop in testing numbers. Senior government officials told HT that the state is doing more ‘targeted testing’.Data shows that the state conducted 177,982 tests (both RT-PCR) and RAT) on May 1 which declined to 124,110 on May 10, 118,345 on May 15. However, testing has marginally picked up since then and on Wednesday, Karnataka conducted 129,538 tests.“There is no point in hiding the statistics. We are conducting more than 1,25,000 tests every day. We are working to further increase the number and get the report within 24 hours,” K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s minister for health, family welfare and medical education said in a statement on Thursday.Data also shows that while there is dip in fresh cases in Bengaluru, other districts of the state are witnessing a surge, raising concerns of a collapse of the already inadequate healthcare system, just as it happened in the state capital.“We have to do more tests. And despite doing more tests, if cases do come down then that is the real beginning of the decline,” Dr Manjunath said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/13rd-of-all-k-taka-covid-deaths-reported-in-may-this-year-data-101621537724777.html
21-05-2021||India||Andhra tables budget of ₹2.29 lakh crore for 2021-22||The Andhra Pradesh government on Thursday presented the state’s annual budget for 2021-22 with an outlay of ₹2,29,779 crore and focus on welfare, health, agriculture and education. Andhra Pradesh finance minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy estimated a revenue expenditure of ₹1,82,196.54 crore and capital expenditure, including loan repayments and other capital disbursements, estimated at around ₹47,582.73 crore. The minister presented the budget in the state legislative assembly after Governor Biswabhusan Harichandan’s customary address to a joint sitting of the two Houses during the one-day session. The one-day session was called by the YSR Congress Party government as a “statutory obligation”, as is mandatory for Assembly to meet every six months. The budget projected the revenue deficit at around ₹5,000.05 crore, which is 0.47% of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) and the fiscal deficit at around ₹37,029.79 crore, 3.49% of the GSDP. The budget, which is generally presented in March, was delayed by two months, as the Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy led state government deferred the budget session on account of elections to urban local bodies and bypoll to Tirupati parliamentary constituency. Earlier in the wake of delayed budget session, the state government had taken the ordinance route on March 31 to adopt the vote-on-account budget for ₹70,994.98 crore for the first three months of the financial year 2021-22, beginning on April 1. Stating that building effective social infrastructure was imperative for registering consistent progress in strategic development goals, Reddy said, “Nava Ratnalu (nine jewels) programme taken up by the chief minister was devised to prioritise welfare of all sections of people, particularly the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, BCs, EBCs and minorities.” He said an amount of ₹28,237 crore has been allocated for the weaker sections. The economically backward sections were allocated ₹5,478 crore, an increase of 8% over the previous year. Kapus (an agrarian ommunity in the state) were allocated ₹3,306 crore, Brahmins ₹359 crore, SC sub-plan ₹17,403 crore, ST sub-plan ₹6,131 crore, minorities ₹3,840 crore, child welfare ₹16,748 crore and women development ₹47,283 crore, the minister said in the budget. The finance minister also made a substantial allocation of ₹13,830 crore for the health sector, including ₹2,258 crore under Dr YSR Aarogyasri scheme to provide free-of-cost treatment to the poor and needy patients in government and private network hospitals and ₹1,538.55 crore under Nadu-Nedu scheme to improve health infrastructure. While agriculture sector was allocated ₹11,210 crore and education got the maximum of ₹24,624 crore, an amount of ₹5,661 crore was allocated for housing and infrastructure development and ₹1,000 crore for industrial incentives. Reddy also announced enhancement of funds for the Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) scheme in various sectors. Some of the major allocations made under the DBT schemes include ₹17,000 crore to YSR Pension Kanuka, ₹3,845 crore to YSR Rythu Bharosa, ₹2,500 crore to Jagananna Vidya Deevena, ₹1,802 crore to YSR Fasal Bima Yojana, ₹1,112 crore to Zero Interest loans for DWCRA groups and ₹500 crore to farmers etc. While industrial and infrastructure development was allocated ₹3,673 crore, roads and buildings got ₹7,394 crore, energy sector ₹6,637 crore, municipalities and urban development ₹8,727 crore and irrigation ₹13,237 crore. “Andhra Pradesh currently ranks 3rd at the national level across 17 strategic development goals. It shall be our endeavour to be at the forefront of achievement of SDGs at the national level. To invest in the future of our citizens and empower them to realise their true potential shall continue to be the constant endeavour of our government,” the finance minister said. The principal opposition Telugu Desam Party (TDP) boycotted the one-day budget session in protest against the “misrule” of the state government. The TDP said it will hold a ‘mock’ Assembly session on Thursday evening and Friday morning to discuss state government ‘failures’. The budget was subsequently passed without any discussion. D Tirupati Raju, chairman of Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), Andhra Pradesh unit, said despite Covid-19 pandemic, the state government has taken required steps for sustainable growth. “The allocations made in the budget for welfare schemes would create demand for various goods and services in the economy and industry move. In fact, the budget introduced gender-specific and children-specific allocations with a greater focus on measurable outcome on the money spent for children and women are the vision of the education importance to society,” Raju said. On industrial front, he said, the government should further focus to showcase the strengths of the state to attract greater investments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-tables-budget-of-2-29-lakh-crore-for-202122-101621537725303.html
21-05-2021||India||TN cuts RT-PCR rate, rolls out jabs for 18-44 age group||Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin on Thursday launched the vaccination drive for 18-44 age group in the state. The state government also slashed prices of RT-PCR tests from ₹1,200 to ₹900 in private labs across the state and declared mucormycosis as a notified disease. For those who are covered under the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme (CMCHIS), the RT-PCR test price has been reduced from ₹800 to ₹550. The prices of pooled samples are reduced from ₹600 to ₹400. Additionally, ₹300 can be levied for testing at home. State health secretary J Radhakrishnan issued a notice on Thursday on this regard. After last year, this is the second time that prices are being capped. Tamil Nadu only conducts RT-PCR tests and not rapid antigen tests. Meanwhile, Stalin launched the vaccination drive for the 18-44 age group from Tiruppur district. The state received 960,000 doses of vaccine from the Centre for this age group while another 420,000 doses are soon to be delivered to the state, officials in know of the development said. Tamil Nadu was among several states that could not roll out vaccines for this age group on May 1 due to shortage. However, several private hospitals that had procured vaccines were already vaccinating the age group. The state plans to procure 15 million doses through the Centre and 35 million doses through a global tender. On Thursday, Governor Banwarilal Purohit declared mucormycosis or black fungus as a notified disease under the provisions of the Tamil Nadu Public Health Act, 1939. It effectively means that from now on all hospitals treating the fungal infection will have to notify the public health department. Nine people have been identified with mucormycosis in Tamil Nadu. “Of the nine, seven patients are diabetic,” Radhakrishnan said at a press briefing. “Treatment has been started for all them. There is no death reported till now,” the state health secretary added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-cuts-rt-pcr-rate-rolls-out-jabs-for-18-44-age-group-101621537544838.html
21-05-2021||India||Singapore orders Facebook, Twitter to issue correction on Covid-19 variant||Singapore on Thursday ordered Facebook and Twitter to carry a correction notice to users in the country on statements claiming a new variant of Sars-Cov-2 originated in the city-state, a day after the remark by Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to the effect led to a diplomatic row and a verbal tussle between the Centre and Aam Aadmi Party.Singapore’s health ministry said a statement circulating online on media outlets and social media platforms implied a new, previously unknown variant originated in Singapore and risked spreading to India from the city-state.“There is no new “Singapore” variant of Covid- 19. Neither is there evidence of any Covid-19 variant that is ‘extremely dangerous for kids’,” said the ministry in a statement.The correction order was issued under Singapore’s fake news law or the Protection from Online Falsehoods and Manipulation Act (POFMA). Facebook and Twitter confirmed receipt of the order.The controversy first began on Tuesday when Kejriwal said a Singapore variant of the virus could affect India in the third wave and appealed to the Centre to cancel air services with the city-state.Hours later, Singapore’s health ministry dismissed his assertions, and said the variant prevalent in many Covid-19 cases in recent weeks was the “B.1.617.2 variant, which originated in India”.On Wednesday, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said the chief minister “does not speak for India”, and external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said the Indian high commissioner P Kumaran clarified the matter with his Singapore counterparts.In response , Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia contended that the Centre and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) were only concerned about their image globally, and not about the well-being of the country’s children.It is rare for the external affairs ministry to acknowledge that an Indian envoy has been called in by a foreign government to lodge a protest, and to publicly criticise an elected Indian representative.Singapore’s high commissioner Simon Wong later told a virtual news conference that his country was satisfied with the Indian government’s clarification, but reserved the right to invoke the domestic fake news law to prevent the spreading of misinformation.People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that Singapore’s strong reaction to the incident was because of both public outrage and strong concerns that online comments could be passed off as facts.After Kejriwal posted his tweet on Tuesday, several related issues dominated Twitter trends in Singapore, reflecting concerns among the public. The people cited above said there were concerns that, without a strong rebuttal, the local and international media could begin reporting about a new coronavirus strain and any number of clarifications at a later stage would be of little use.These concerns were also conveyed to the Indian side, resulting in the public comment on the chief minister’s comments by Jaishankar.Facebook and Twitter said they complied as per the local law.A prompt on users’ Facebook news feeds linked to a government website that said there was no new “Singapore” variant of Covid-19. Twitter sent notifications to its account holders based in Singapore, which included a tweet from the government’s official account @POFMA_Notice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/singapore-orders-fb-twitter-to-issue-correction-on-variant-101621537065809.html
21-05-2021||India||219 black fungus deaths reported from 13 states||There have been at least 219 deaths due to mucormycosis, according to officials in 13 states on Thursday, as the alarm around a typically rare disease grew this week, prompting the Union government to urge states to make it mandatory for all hospitals to report if they detect these cases.The Union government told the Delhi high court there were 7,251 cases of mucormycosis, also known as black fungus, across the country.Of these, Maharashtra, which also has had the highest Covid-19 case burden, reported the most infections at 1,500 cases and 90 fatalities with Gujarat detecting the next-highest numbers of 1,163 cases.The issue was raised by Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope at a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday.After the meeting, he said, the state government needs more supply of Amphotericin B, the medicine used in its treatment, from the Centre.“Maharashtra faces a shortage of Amphotericin B, a key medicine required to treat mucormycosis patients, and the state needs 1.50 lakh to two lakh vials of that medicine, but has received only 16,000 from the Centre,” he said, terming the disease as the prime concern for the state now with Covid cases witnessing a sharp decline.The infection, which some doctors have blamed on the high use of steroids to combat Covid-19, kills more than 50 percent of sufferers within days. In some cases, eyes and upper jaws are removed by surgeons to save lives.Also Read| India faces black fungus epidemic as cases climbGujarat, Tamil Nadu and Telangana became the latest to declare black fungus as notifiable disease under the epidemic diseases act, a day after Rajasthan, and following a letter from the Union health ministry suggesting so. Once a disease is categories as notifiable disease under the Epidemic Disease Act, hospitals must report it to the integrated disease surveillance programme.Tope’s statement came on a day when the Delhi high court asked the Centre to take steps to source Amphotericin B from wherever it is available in the world.In Gujarat, where officials told HT there were close to 1,200 cases and 61 deaths, special wards have been set up in major cities to deal with the rising cases. More than half of these cases have come in the past fortnight, said a state government official.“A separate mucormycosis ward with 250 beds has been established in Rajkot,” said Dr RS Trivedi, Medical Superintendent of Surat Medical College.In Madhya Pradesh, where officials said there were 575 cases and 31 deaths, lack of the anti-fungal drug was making treatment tough, doctors said.“We are performing surgeries of eyes and jaws daily to save the life of patients but how will we control the spread without drug?” said a doctor treating a black fungus patient in Bhopal.A patient from Jabalpur, Arpit Rai, said: “I was admitted in the hospital 26 days ago for Covid 19 treatment but now I am suffering from mucormycosis. My one eye has been infected badly and I need the injection of amphotericin B but it unavailable in Jabalpur.”Also Read| ‘Get black fungus medicine from wherever in world’: Delhi HC to CentreMP Health department minister Prabhuram Chaudhary said: “We are trying to get anti-fungal medicine from pharma companies in Gujarat. Soon we will get 2,000 injections.”Two people died of mucormycosis as Bihar reported 103 cases in the last fortnight till Thursday. Among the deceased was a local doctor, who died at the Ruban Memorial Hospital, a private facility in Patna, on May 17.On May 12, a 58-year-old man from Kaimur, died at Patna’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), which has a dedicated facility for black fungus cases.Dr Anjani Kumar, additional director, health services, Bihar, said Bihar has diverted around 14,000 vials of liposomal Amphotericin-B injection, available under the kala-azar elimination programme, for treatment.Uttarakhand has reported 48 cases of black fungus so far, of which three infected patients have died.Also Read| ‘Free treatment for black fungus across all districts’: Rajasthan CMRajasthan reported over 80 cases of black fungs and many of them have been admitted in special ward in Jaipur’s Sawai Madho Singh (SMS) hospital. In Rajasthan, only 24 cases were reported in 2020. After notifying mucormycosis (black fungus) as an epidemic, the Rajasthan government on Thursday announced free treatment of the disease.Most of the southern states of Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Karnataka have reported a few cases.(With inputs from state bureaus)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/219-black-fungus-deaths-reported-from-13-states-101621536884875.html
21-05-2021||India||NIA takes over probe into 2019 Maoist encounter in Chhattisgarh||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has taken over a probe from Chhattisgarh police into a 2019 Maoist encounter in Bastar district in which six rebels and a civilian were killed, people familiar with the developments said.It is not immediately known as to why the central agency was roped in to investigate a case after almost two years while the recent ambush in Bijapur on April 3, in which 22 security personnel were killed by a group of Naxals led by most dreaded commander Madvi Hidma, is under investigation by local police.Officials familiar with the process said the NIA has taken over at least five to six cases pertaining to Maoist conspiracy in Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh this year as it prepares to initiate strong action against the rebels.The latest case taken over by the central agency pertains to an exchange of fire between security forces and Naxals on July 27, 2019 near Tiriya village in Bastar region. A joint team of local District Reserve Guard (DRG), Special Task Force and Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) had traveled to the area after receiving information that a group of Maoist cadres had gathered near Tiriya with an intention to perpetrate a big incident on July 28 which is observed as Shaheed Diwas.During the encounter, six Maoists, including three women cadres and a civilian, were killed and several arms and ammunition, including seven rifles, were recovered.The central government has claimed that there has been a 70% decline in Maoists violence in the country – from an all time high of 2,258 incidents in 2009 to 665 in 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-takes-over-probe-into-2019-maoist-encounter-in-chhattisgarh-101621536344767.html
21-05-2021||India||Pinarayi Vijayan takes oath as Kerala CM, 20 ministers inducted in cabinet||Kerala Governor Arif Mohammad Khan on Thursday administered oath of office and secrecy to Pinarayi Vijayan and 20 of his cabinet members at a function at central stadium in the state capital.In the recently-concluded assembly elections, the ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) stormed back to power after winning a brute majority of 99 seats in the 140-member house. The lead Communist Party of India (Marxist), however, decided to drop all members of the outgoing ministry other than the chief minister to induct fresh faces. Junior partner Communist Party of India (CPI) followed suit by inducting four new faces.Among new ministers inducted into the cabinet was journalist-turned- politician Veena George (44) who was given the health portfolio, replacing the high-profile K K Shailaja. P A Mohammad Riyas, the chief minister’s son-in-law, was given two key portfolios, tourism and public works department. Former member of Rajya Sabha K N Balagopal was announced as the new finance minister, succeeding Dr Thomas Isaac, an economist. Another former Rajya Sabha member P Rajeev was declared the new industry minister. Prof R Bindhu, wife of acting secretary A Vijayaraghavan, will be the higher education minister.Amid a triple lockdown in Thiruvananthapuram, invitees were limited to less than 400 after several leaders and organisations pleaded the government to hold the ceremony online in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The government, however, went ahead with the programme amid strict restrictions in place. CPI)M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury was among those who attended the function.With his party’s victory, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan changed the state’s political script of alternating power between two coalitions for more than four decades. After the second successive win, he has turned into an unquestionable leader within the party and Left movement in the country.Vijayan managed to hold the party and LDF together while the Left forces surrendered meekly in erstwhile forts, West Bengal and Tripura. With his inimitable style, he made use of natural disasters (two consecutive floods in 2018 and 2019) and pandemic to his credit. His daily press briefing at 6 pm almost turned into a staple for the common man as a close look at the election results showed that people from all castes, regions and economic classes had extended their support to his government.A look at profile of key ministersVeena George: Health minister Journalist-turned-politician Veena George (44) will replace high-profile health minister K K Shailaja in Pinarayi Vijayan 2.0. Elected from Aranmula (Pathanamthitta) constituency for the second time, she was handed over the crucial portfolio at a time when the state is struggling to contain the pandemic. Widespread protests had erupted after Shailaja, the face of the fight against pandemic in the state, was denied a second term. The new minister will be under tremendous pressure to keep up the image of her predecessor.A post-graduate in physics, George was associated with several news channels as an anchor and producer before entering politics. Though she was active in the Left movement during her student days, her entry into electoral politics was quite accidental. In her maiden battle from heritage constituency Aranmula in 2016, she defeated senior Congress leader K Sivadasan Nair and she repeated the same feat in 2021. A classical dancer and orator, she won several honours during her student days. Married to Dr George Joseph, a higher secondary school teacher and an active worker of the Orthodox Syrian Church, the couple have two children.P A Mohammed Riyas: Tourism and PWD Minister Several eyebrows were raised when the chief minister’s son-in-law P A Mohammed Riyas (45) walked away with two plum portfolios, tourism and public works department. It is for the first time that a father and son-in-law have together secured berths in a ministry in Kerala.National president of the Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI), party youth wing, Riyaz was elected to the assembly from Beypore constituency in Kozhikode. He began his political career with the Students Federation of India (SFI) during his high school days. He later became an active member of DFYI and went on to become its national president.In 2009, he contested from Kozhikode Lok Sabha constituency but failed to make it. A good organiser, he married the chief minister’s daughter Veena Vijayan last year.K N Balagopal: Finance minister K N Balagopal (57), former member of Rajya Sabha, will be the new finance minister, succeeding Thomas Isaac. Rising from the ranks, he started his career with the Students Federation of India, the party youth wing. He served as political secretary to chief minister V S Achuthanandan in 2006 and in 2010, he was elected to the upper house. A post-graduate in law, Balagopal is known for his analytical mind and oratory skills.With the state economy in tatters amid the pandemic, it will be a tight-rope walk for the new finance minister hailing from Kollam.P Rajeev: Industry minister Another former Rajya Sabha member P Rajeev (54) also began his political career in his student days. He was a member of the Upper House from 2009 to 2015 and gained popularity due to his effective intervention in various issues. Representing industrial area Kalamassery in Kochi, he got the industry portfolio in Pinarayi Vijayan 2.0.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vijayan-takes-oath-as-kerala-cm-20-ministers-inducted-in-cabinet-101621536284734.html
21-05-2021||India||J&K DSP arrested in terror case dismissed from service||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Thursday dismissed former police officer Davinder Singh, who was arrested for alleged terror links, from service.The former J&K Police deputy superintendent of police (DSP) was arrested on January 11 last year when he was ferrying two commanders of the banned terror outfit Hizbul Mujahideen to Jammu from Kashmir. An AK-47 rifle, three pistols and a cache of ammunition and explosives were recovered from the vehicle in which they were travelling. The NIA took over the case on January 17 and filed a filed a charge sheet against Singh, who is currently in jail.“Whereas, the Lieutenant Governor is satisfied after considering the facts and circumstances of the case and on the basis of information available that the activities of Mr Davinder Singh, deputy Superintendent of Police (under suspension)… are such as warrant his dismissal from service. Accordingly, the Lieutenant Governor hereby dismisses Mr Davinder Singh from service with immediate effect,” said the an official order issued by the UT’s General Administration Department on behalf of J&K Lt governor Manoj Sinha.After his arrest, the J&K administration stripped Singh of the Sher-e-Kashmir Police Medal for Gallantry. The NIA charge sheet accused Singh and others of waging “war against India” with the help of Pakistan-based terrorists and also alleged that the former police officer was providing shelter to terrorists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-dsp-arrested-in-terror-case-dismissed-from-service-101621535444626.html
21-05-2021||India||Gujarat facility to make 200 million additional doses of Covaxin||Vaccine maker Bharat Biotech on Thursday announced that it was further ramping up production capacity to manufacture additional 200 million Covaxin doses per year, taking the total number of vaccine doses produced annually to close to 1 billion.These additional doses of the Covid-19 vaccine will be manufactured at Chiron Behring Vaccines, a wholly owned subsidiary of Bharat Biotech at Ankleshwar in Gujarat. “The company plans to produce 200 million doses of Covaxin per annum in the GMP facilities that are already operational to produce vaccines based on Inactivated Vero Cell Platform Technology, under stringent levels of GMP and biosafety,” a statement by the Hyderabad-based company read. It added that the additional doses will be available in the fourth quarter of this year.The company said it has already deployed multiple production lines for Covaxin at its Hyderabad and Bengaluru campuses. The addition of the Chiron Behring facility will effectively boost volumes up to 1 billion doses per annum, “with its own established campuses specialised for manufacturing inactivated viral vaccines under the highest levels of biosafety,” the company said in its statement.Covaxin is sold to state governments and private hospitals for ₹400 and ₹1,200, respectively.Earlier on April 20, the biotechnology major had announced that it was scaling up its manufacturing capacity to produce 700 million doses of the vaccine annually. At present, the company is producing about 120 million doses annually.Before that on April 16, the central government had also announced that it would help double the production capacity of India’s first ‘make in India’ Covid-19 vaccine by May-June, from the existing 10 million doses per month, and with a target of helping to produce nearly 100 million doses per month by September.Bharat Biotech has co-developed Covaxin along with Indian Council of Medical Research. It is one of the two vaccines being used in India’s Covid-19 immunisation programme, the other one being Covishield, which is the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine produced locally by Serum Institute of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-facility-to-make-200-million-additional-doses-of-covaxin-101621535324655.html
21-05-2021||India||Give free education to children who lost parents to Covid, Sonia tells PM Modi||Congress chief Sonia Gandhi on Thursday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to provide free education to children who have lost either both parents, or the head of the household to Covid-19. She suggested the use of central Navodaya Vidyalayas across the country for the purpose.In a letter to Modi, Gandhi said the nation owes it to such children to give them “hope for a robust future”. Gandhi’s letter comes days after Congress leader G S Bali from Himachal Pradesh announced the party will adopt all children orphaned by the pandemic in the state’s Kangra district.In her letter, Gandhi recalled how the creation of Navodaya Vidyalayas across the country was her husband and late former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi’s most significant legacy. It was his dream to make high-quality modern education accessible and affordable to talented children predominantly from rural areas, she said.Also Read| Covid-19: PM Modi to interact with doctors, front line workers in Varanasi todayGandhi said as India battles the second Covid-19 wave, thousands of children have lost both their parents and have no one to look after them. She added that others are in a situation where a single surviving parent is unable to take care of them financially and psychologically.Senior Congress leader Rahul Gandhi also tweeted, “Children are amongst the worst hit by Covid trauma, many having lost their parents to the dreadful situation. Congress President makes an important suggestion to safeguard their future & provide them free education at NVs. It’s high time GOI listened!”Also Read| MHA asks states to help vulnerable sections, kids orphaned due to Covid-19Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday announced that children, who have lost their parents to Covid-19 will be provided monthly assistance of ₹2,500 up to the age of 25 years. Also, the government will provide them free education.Bharatiya Janata Party governments in Uttar Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh have also announced schemes and initiatives to take care of the orphaned children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-gandhi-writes-to-pm-seeks-free-education-for-kids-orphaned-by-covid-101621508023571.html
21-05-2021||India||Rare infection is now an epidemic: Experts||It’s official: mucormycosis or black fungus is now an epidemic, within the larger pandemic. It’s usually a rare disease , caused by fungi -- in this case, molds called mucormycetes -- but has now affected thousands of Covid-19 patients across India. As of Thursday, according to the Union government’s submission to the Delhi HC, the number of people affected at present is 7,251.Worse, according to the US Centres for Disease Control and Prevention, “a review of published mucormycosis cases” put the fatality rate at 54%, with that for those with pulmonary infections (Covid-19 is one) coming in higher at 76%. Worse, the drug used for treating it , Amphotericin b is nephrotoxic , and could lead to kidney damage.Till Thursday, Maharashtra, one of the states worst affected by mucormycosis has reported 90 deaths , Gujarat, 61, and Madhya Pradesh, 31.The condition may be reaching epidemic proportions currently because of Covid-19 but mucormycosis was not unheard of in India earlier. Due to the lack of population-level data, its exact burden is unknown but it a rare condition, according to research papers on the disease and critical care experts.Also Read| India faces black fungus epidemic as cases climb“I cannot talk about disease incidence as such, but in our clinical life, we may have seen a maximum of five to seven such patients in the intensive care units. It was rare,” said Dr Anjan Trikha, professor, department of anaesthesia, critical care and pain medicine, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi.The incidence of mucormycosis has over the years increased in India, according to a research paper titled “Epidemiology of mucormycosis in India” published in March in the medical journal Microorganisms.The paper was authored by Hariprasath Prakash, department of public health, International Higher School of Medicine, Kyrgyzstan, and Arunaloke Chakrabarti, head of the department of medical microbiology, Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh.“... [there has been] an increasing trend of mucormycosis from a single centre at successive periods, with an annual incidence of 12.9 cases per year during 1990–1999, 35.6 cases per year during 2000–2004, and 50 cases per year during 2006–2007. The overall numbers increased from 25 cases per year (1990–2007) to 89 cases per year (2013–2015),” says the paper. “…A multicentre study across India reported 465 cases from 12 centres over 21 months; the study reported an annual incidence of 22 cases per year and an average of 38.8 cases for each participating centre…”The paper said without population-based estimates, it is difficult to determine the exact incidence and prevalence of mucormycosis in the Indian population. “The computational-model-based method estimated a prevalence of 14 cases per 100,000 individuals in India.”The incidence seems to have grown amid the Covid-19 pandemic.“The black fungus infections went up 2.5 times last year between September and December across 16 centres in the country,” Chakrabarti told HT on May 12. He is a part of the Fungal Infection Study Forum and is one of the members, who drafted the government advisory on mucormycosis management.Also Read| After black fungus, reports of white fungus infections surface. What we know so far“We did a study across 16 centres between September and December last year which showed that the infection had increased 2.5 times then. It is likely to go up further this time; we are planning to conduct another study.”In its advisory this week, the Union ministry said mucormycosis mainly affects people on medication for other health problems that reduce their ability to fight environmental pathogens. Clinicians also say several factors found in Covid-19 patients could lead to the secondary infection.“Mucormycosis needs fertile soil to grow, and high blood glucose levels, lack of oxygen, acidosis and suppressed immunity contribute towards the growth. There is a high probability of all these factors in Covid-19 patients which is, perhaps, leading to an increase in [black fungus] cases,” said Dr Ambrish Mithal, chairman, department of endocrinology and diabetes, Max Healthcare. The use of poor quality water in humdification for patients on low-flow oxygen -- many being treated for Covid-19 are on this -- is believed to be one reason for the spurt in cases, as is the use on unclean oxygen cylinders. The fungi are found in soil, and dung, although small spores of it are also in the air. The spores are harmles to most people, but could affect those with weak immune systems -- and some experts believe the overuse of steroids on early-stage Covid-19 patients may also be contributing to this.Reaching hospitals late in most cases could be leading to deaths. “There are not too many drugs available to treat the condition, and in India, one of the major problems is patients reporting late to the hospital which tends to alter the treatment outcome. But the reason for fungus becoming pathological and growing in various parts of the body is compromised immunity [people on high dose steroids for a prolonged period] and uncontrolled diabetes,” said Trikha.Also Read | Covid self-testing kit to be available in market by next week, says manufacturer||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mucormycosis-a-rare-infection-being-found-commonly-in-covid-patients-101621502803142.html
21-05-2021||India||Centre began looking for virus variants only after rapid surge: Dr T Jacob John||Dr T Jacob John, who was former director at ICMR’s Centre of Advanced Research in Virology, in an interview with says that the government surveillance did not catch wind as the virus was mutating and new variants were emerging until rapid rise of the pandemic curve. He says it is unethical that despite being the ‘pharmacy of the world’ we don’t have enough vaccines to save lives and our policy isn’t informed by adequate scientific evidence. He projects that the second wave would reach its end stage by the end of June.Edited excerpts:What factors do you think led to the magnitude of the second wave?Broadly two: One, letting our guard down too soon; trivialising masks and physical distancing for the sake of allowing Kumbh Mela from April 1 to April 22. Pilgrims from all states carried variant viruses and seeded epidemics; therefore, election or no election, all states had fire. Elections and rallies added to this. Two, we let our guard down on “spying on the enemy (SARS-CoV-2)” -- variants were getting together for an onslaught but our intelligence failed to get a wind. It was mutating and new variants were emerging, but the Indian government apparently did not know anything about “enemy tactics” until after the second wave was spreading fast due to the variants. Only after the rapid rise of the epidemic curve the assigned virologists began looking for variants and they were all over. These variants (about 5 different ones) have far higher transmission efficiency than the “founder’’ variant of Wu.Hu.1 and the variant that caused India’s first wave, D614G. Another factor -- the sin of omission or of lack of planning due to lack of vision or of understanding the value of vaccines. Very tardy vaccinations.As compared to the first wave, we have more people dying unable to either find oxygen or ventilator support. Doctors are saying that more people are coming in a critical condition. Is it the nature of the variant that is more severe?The first wave started early March 2020 and peaked by September 16, 2020 (total reported cases just over 5 million) and fell to endemicity by Dec 28, 2020 (second half also with just over 5 million), totalling more than 10 million in 10 months. The second wave started about March 9 and peaked on May 6, with 10 million cases in 8 weeks, a little over a million a week. The sheer speed and huge volume overwhelmed the healthcare infrastructure, crematoria, and so on. This speed and volume resulted in more sick people and more deaths, but the rates were not much changed. So disease severity was not the problem -- many died without even oxygen -- what a country! For normal healthcare we need 300 hospital beds per 100,000 population. But we have only 50 beds per 100,000 population. Therefore even during normal times we were stretching our bed capacity, so no surprise at failure to cope with the surge. No evidence of more “virus virulence”.You have for long been demanding data collection and for policy and responses to be driven by data. We still do not have reliable data with under-reporting of cases as well as deaths. How different would our response have been to Covid-19 if we had verified data on, for instance, TB?That is because I am an Indian who believes in science. Others do not want data or at least reliable data. Our governments are happy to make policies on the advice of people who may know very little about their field of responsibility. I have watched health secretaries who advise the government without basic understanding or commitment to “health and science of health and disease.”Look at prediction of vaccine demand in 2020 third quarter, in 2021 first quarter and making sure we get the projected volumes. No projection was made because no one knew on what basis to make projections. Respect for numbers will change the attitudes of administrators.We guess our TB burden to be 200 cases/100,000 people while Western countries brought it down (they also had at one time the same burden) through public health interventions to 5/100,000. We don’t even have a method of counting every case of TB to get reliable numbers. Reliable numbers are needed only if you want to control TB. Since we do not have even a policy to control TB, valid numbers are not needed. We have a slogan for TB elimination by 2025, but we do not have a policy to control TB. We are good at saying A and mean B because they are so close to each other.Do you think our policy interventions, particularly early this year as well as last year, were adequately based on scientific evidence?Brief answer: No. But then policy interventions of a pandemic require “projection” without “evidence” but “extrapolation”. That skill is fundamental to public health. Since we have no public health, we have no experts in 3 areas of public health -- (1) Epidemiology of Communicable Disease; (2) Economics of Health -- of disease prevention versus non-prevention, loss due to uncontrolled communicable diseases including TB; we are losing money by not spending enough; (3) Ethics of health interventions. For example is it not unethical for the “Pharmacy of the World” not having enough vaccines to save citizens’ lives? There are ethical issues in not doing something you ought to have done -- not merely in things you do.What is your view on the genome sequencing done in India so far. Tamil Nadu is one of the lowest for sending samples.Are only the media interested in gene sequencing? India probably saved some few crores of rupees avoiding 5% positive samples used for full genome sequencing. Does anyone realise that those few crores would have saved countless lives in April-May? In general our culture does not value the “cause-and-effect” tenet of science and so hardly any one will attribute our discomfiture to past errors.Where do we stand in terms of herd immunity? Is that still a goal?Do those who talk about herd immunity understand it at all? Who is in charge of monitoring it? Who has predicted what herd immunity level must be achieved with vaccines? Herd immunity as a goal applies exclusively for vaccination. If experts had understood that they would have calculated the vaccine requirement last April-May (2020).Vaccines are the only tool we have to control the spread but we have a shortage. At current rates, India is projected to take till at least the end of 2022 to be able to vaccinate a proportion of population that will help to reduce the severity of waves. What other steps must India take till availability and delivery improves?India is the pioneer leader of “social vaccine” -- that is what should have been used as soon as the second wave was detected but then, that demanded seriousness of purpose to curtail the spread. Did you ever see any “desire” to reduce the onslaught of the second wave except for blaming each other?What is your concern about vaccine effectiveness against the different variants?As of now, not much worry. Let us get the maximum out of vaccines first. My hunch is that “hyper-immunisation” with inactivated virus vaccine (Covaxin) by a third dose will heighten immunity that will also broaden the cover. This needs testing.What is the course of the pandemic in India now?India has 718 districts and there is 718 variations on epidemic profiles. Or 30 states with 30 epidemics. National total data is an artifact of statistics but that gives us the pulse. Nationally, the second wave peaked on May 6 (414,433 cases) and is fast declining. May 7th --401,326; 8th -- 409,300; and 9th to 16th every day less than 370,000. Lockdown on downslope is useless and harmful.When would it reach the stage of an endemic?If the second wave took 8 weeks to reach peak it will fall to an endemic state in a bit less than 8 weeks -- probably 6-7 weeks. Seven weeks from May 6 to June 24. By end June, I expect numbers to stabilise at 20,000 per day. That should last longer than 10 weeks and further waves can be prevented by vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-began-looking-for-virus-variants-only-after-rapid-surge-101621453655966.html
