22-05-2021||India||Pvt donations pour in as India battles pandemic||New Delhi: From software giants in California to face shield makers from the UK, and the Indian diaspora to a Buddhist group — the Narendra Modi government has received aid to fight Covid19 from a wide range of private donors, government data shows. They have supplied medical oxygen infrastructure, life-saving drugs and even infrared thermal scanners over the past few weeks.The data, reviewed y HT, shows that American companies such as Salesforce, Eli Lilly, Bloom Energy and Thermo Fisher Scientific, Swiss major Roche, UK-based Virustatic Shield Ltd and Canada’s PRACSNS are among the list of international donors. Amazon, Virgin Atlantic, Indian communities in New Zealand, Oman and the UK, a Buddhist order known as Chinese Diligent Buddhists of Master Yunyi and Indian corporate majors such as Reliance Industries, Infosys, Bajaj group, ITC and Tata Group have also extended help in this crisis, according to the government records.The international donors have so far provided more than 6,000 oxygen concentrators, one million rapid antigen kits, more than 50,000 vials of life-saving drugs such as tocilizumab and over 100,000 packs of baricitinib. New Delhi also received 400 ventilators, 200 oxygen cylinders, four oxygen plants, 2,370 oxygen masks, 2,870 nasal cannula and 10,480 pulse oximeters among other items, the data shows.The government has waived off basic customs duty and health cess on import of medical oxygen, oxygen-related equipment and ventilators until July 31, 2021. Covid-19 vaccines, remdesivir and its API are exempted from basic customs duty while corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities now include funds spent on makeshift Covid-19 hospitals, temporary care facilities, awareness campaigns and public outreach programmes to promote vaccination.All non-monetary donations from the private sector to the Centre are being coordinated and provided with end-to-end support by the government’s think tank Niti Aayog. “Private sector, both Indian and International, has been at the forefront of fight against the second wave of covid pandemic. The private sector donors including industries, multinational companies, chambers of commerce and industries, voluntary agencies, and generous individual donors have all come together in this fight,” said Niti Ayog CEO Amitabh Kant. Official data shows Salesforce has donated 2,200 oxygen concentrators and 10,000 pulse oximeters; Indian communities in the UK and Oman have given 708 oxygen concentrators, 2,370 nasal cannula and oxygen masks, 480 pulse oximeters and 30 oxygen concentrators, the data shows. Documents accessed by HT show PerkinElmer sent antigen test kits, ThermoFischer Scientific donated viral transport mediums (VTMs) and disposable PPE components, while Virustatic Shield Ltd gave face shields and Indo Swiss Chambers of Commerce sent face masks.USIBC, Amazon, Bloom Energy, SNJ Charitable Trusts, NongHyup Bank, Indo Thai Chamber of Commerce, Virgin Atlantic and PRACSNS are among those who contributed oxygen-related equipment, while the Buddhist organisation gave 76 oxygen concentrators.About 100 private organisations have contributed so far and an official said that more Covid-related donations were on their way. Indian corporate majors, too, have extended help. The Tata Group helped in setting up Sardar Patel COVID Care Centre and Hospital and imported 14 cryogenic containers for oxygen, among other things. The Bajaj Group installed four oxygen plants in rural hospitals, and are installing oxygen plants in some key government hospitals in western India among other activities. “Reliance Industries is providing over 1,000 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen per day. They have organised airlifting of 24 ISO containers from Saudi Arabia, Germany, Belgium, The Netherlands and Thailand, and are adding 500 MT of transportation capacity for liquid oxygen,” an official document said.“Infosys is helping Karnataka government to scale up the call centre operations, Raytheon Technologies has donated oxygen concentrators, Escorts is setting up a 1000 bed hospital in Faridabad, DCM Shriram is setting up 7 PSA oxygen generation plants at district hospitals in Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh, Honda Motorcycle & Scooter India and Hero MotoCorp are setting up 100 beds hospitals each, Microtek is importing 2000 oxygen concentrators, Venkateshwara Wires, Man Structurals, Balaji Industrial and Basant Fiberteck together have donated 500 beds to COVID Centre at Jaipur,” the official document added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pvt-donations-pour-in-as-india-battles-pandemic-101621707598666.html
22-05-2021||India||Vaccines work against B.1.617 but single dose may not be enough: UK data||The B.1.617.2 variant of the coronavirus, which is believed to have contributed to the devastating second wave of Covid-19 in India, does not render vaccines ineffective but it could require people to get both doses in order to be adequately protected against symptomatic disease. The inference, based on preliminary data from infections among people in the UK, has implications for India’s vaccination drive, according to experts who said the country must now focus on expanding coverage and may need to reconsider its decision to increase the gap between shots. Data from the UK, first reported by the Financial Times on Saturday, suggested a single dose may be significantly less effective against the new variant. “One dose offered 33 per cent protection against symptomatic infection from B.1.617.2, and 51 per cent against B.1.1.7,” said the report. The difference in protection reduced to a mere 6 percentage point when people were vaccinated with both doses, the report added. The data was based on a pooled analysis of people who received the Pfizer-BioNTech and the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine in the UK.When both doses were given, the vaccines appeared to offer 81% protection against the B.1.617.2 variant and 87% protection against B.1.1.7. Experts said that though there is a drop, vaccines continue to protect against the B.1.617 variant. “In any case both shots are required for good and lasting immunity so the focus should continue to be that. The data so far shows reduced but sufficient protection against B.1.617,” said Shahid Jameel, virologist and director, Trivedi School of Bioscience, Ashoka University. “The focus should be on vaccination at scale,” he added. A second expert said the findings reinforce concerns around delayed intervals for second doses, a policy that India and the UK have followed. “The UK vaccine dose delay policy is controversial and risky, and the Indian policy needs reconsidering. The protection conferred by a single dose is not going to be enough to stop the spread of B.1.617, particularly as the vaccines in use in India are not the strongest known. Even the mRNA vaccines struggle against the resistant variants when given only once,” said John P Moore, virologist and professor at Cornell University’s Weill Cornell Medicine. On May 13, India announced that people on Covishield (the India-made version of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine) need to wait 12-16 weeks for their second doses, citing real world data from UK that showed improved efficacy when the gap between shots was expanded. But on May 15, the UK itself reduced the gap from 12 weeks to 8 weeks and accelerated rollout to more groups, citing the B.1.617 variant. Jameel added that it might be too soon to determine if the extended dosing schedules pose a risk. The B.1.617 is a variant with three sub-lineages – B.1.617.1, B.1.617.2 and B.1.617.3. Among these, whole genomic sequencing has shown that B.1.617.2 has grown rapidly in several parts of the world, including India, UK and US. According to an updated analysis by outbreak.info of data on the global repository GISAID, 58% of the samples sequenced in India over the last 45 days are of this variant, which now appears to have become dominant after rising from relative obscurity in mid-March. Along with B.1.617.1, the B.1.617 lineage now accounts for 70% of the samples analysed in the last 45 days. Moore added that the data from UK reinforce what has been observed in lab analysis. “I am not surprised by the reports from the UK. The B.1.617 variant is known to have a set of mutations associated with antibody resistance, and assays in a UK lab (Gupta in Cambridge) confirm that. It’s a set of mutations not any individual one that’s responsible,” he said. In an interview to Global News, the CEO of BioNTech, Ugur Sahin said on May 20 that he expects the Pfizer-BioNTech mRNA vaccine have around 70-75% efficacy in preventing infection of the B.1.617 variants. While this is lower than the 95% protection from the variant that was first seen in Wuhan, experts said vaccines are likely to still offer significant protection from severe illness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccines-work-against-b-1-617-but-single-dose-may-not-be-enough-uk-data-101621707479767.html
22-05-2021||India||Delhi records 3.58% positivity rate, lowest cases since Mar 31||With 2,260 new cases of Covid-19, Delhi reported the lowest daily incidence of the viral infection in 52 days on Saturday, and the positivity rate – the proportion of samples that return positive – dropped to 3.58%, a figure, experts said, showed the fourth wave was gradually coming under control in the national capital.The Capital has been under a lockdown for a month; the “last resort” step was taken after a massive surge in infections overwhelmed the health care infrastructure and resulted in shortages of essential supplies such as medical oxygen and life-saving drugs.In April, Delhi reported its worst surge of Covid-19, with the number of cases recorded in a single day shooting up to over 28,000 and the positivity rate to 36%, meaning more than one in three people tested were found to have the infection. It has now reduced to around one in 33 tested people having the infection.Dr Jacob John, former head of the department of virology at Christian Medical College-Vellore, said the government should now focus on vaccinating a significant proportion of the population to prevent a third wave.With reports of a shortage of vaccines for those between the ages of 18 and 44 years, the number of jabs given in Delhi almost halved on Saturday. About 50,000 jabs were administered, according to the official health bulletin; the daily jabs crossed 100,000 a day after the vaccination was opened up for the younger population in the Capital.“Some curbs have to remain – malls, gyms, cinemas, weddings any place where people gather. With a large number of people exposed to the infection, there might not be a surge for the next few months... this time needs to be utilised to vaccinate a significant proportion of the people,” said Dr Amit Singh, associate professor, Centre for Infectious Disease Research, Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru. He added: “In the absence of vaccines, the government also needs to see whether it is prepared with beds and oxygen needed in case there is a surge again.” On Saturday, Delhi reported 182 deaths due to the viral infection, dipping below the 200 mark for the first time in 34 days. However, with fewer cases and a high number of deaths still being reported, the seven day rolling average case fatality ratio (CFR) – proportion of deaths among those who test positive – has shot up to 6.15%. The cumulative CFR – based on the total number of cases and deaths reported so far – is at 1.63%, higher than the national average of 1.1%.As per the latest health bulletin, the new fatalities pushed the death toll due to Covid-19 in the national capital to 23,013. The number of daily cases in the city was 2,260, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said on Twitter, adding: “These are lowest numbers after 31 March. Still need to take all precautions and follow Covid appropriate behaviour.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-records-3-58-positivity-rate-lowest-cases-since-mar-31-101621707419654.html
22-05-2021||India||India’s vaccination status compared to foreign countries is scary, says Mayawati||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief and former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Mayawati on Saturday expressed concern at what she described as the poor vaccination status of India as compared to other countries. “I think India’s vaccination status vis-a-vis foreign countries is pretty scary. The second jab has been administered to an even lesser number which is quite serious and worrisome,” Mayawati tweeted. She also urged the Centre and the state governments to pay attention towards this. Mayawati was among the first few Opposition leaders across the country to back the government’s vaccination plan and take the jab.Mayawati had taken her first shot of the Covishield vaccine on March 13 at Lucknow’s TS Mishra Super Specialty Hospital. Last Sunday (May 16), chief minister Yogi Adityanath had apprised Prime Minister Narendra Modi of the vaccination status of the state. Along with vaccination for people in the age group of 45 years and above across all 75 districts of the state, vaccination for the 18-plus category has also been started in 23 districts of the state. The state government has been holding special vaccination camps for various professionals.Around the time Mayawati tweeted on the vaccination status on Saturday, Adityanath announced that special camps to vaccinate judicial officers and media personnel would be held across the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-vaccination-status-compared-to-foreign-countries-is-scary-says-mayawati-101621705139207.html
22-05-2021||India||Kerala adds 28,514 new Covid-19 cases, hike in death rate cause for concern||One of the achievements of Kerala in the battle against Covid-19 is its low mortality rate but that too is under threat with the death rate going up steadily during the second wave of Coronavirus infections, the state health ministry data shows. Kerala reported 176 deaths on Saturday, the highest since the outbreak began. In the last two days, the death toll was 320. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said the rise in the death rate was a serious concern and it is a big challenge to keep up the low-mortality rate. “According to experts, the peak of the second wave is almost over in the state. But virus-related complications and deaths are on the rise. It is a big concern. Our hospitals are fully equipped to face the threat,” he said. The state’s mortality rate is the lowest in the country 0.4 per cent against the national average of 1.30 per cent but going by the recent hike it will be difficult for the state to maintain its low mortality rate, experts said. The CM also said the government will do a medical auditing on black fungus cases and there is no shortage of medicines for the new malady. “Experts said such cases were reported even before the pandemic also. But there is a spike in such cases now. It has to be studied in detail,” he said. At least 28 black fungus cases and two deaths have been reported so far. Experts said rampant self-medication by Covid-19 patients including steroids was one of the reasons for its surge. Though the government had advised home care for mild Covid-19 patients, many of them started taking drugs on their own without realising their complications-- and some of the medicines like Tocilizumab are readily available in medical stores, they said. Kerala on Saturday added 28,514 new Covid-19 cases when 1,26,028 people were tested with a test positivity rate of 22.63 per cent. The active caseload has also come down to 2,89,283 after 45,400 patients recovered. Among those infected 123 are health workers and despite two shots of the vaccine, many health workers are getting infected again in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-adds-28-514-new-covid-19-cases-hike-in-death-rate-cause-for-concern-101621703818965.html
22-05-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccination at workplaces: Who can receive jabs, Centre issues order||Vaccination drive taken by employers at workplaces can be extended to all the family members and dependents of the employees, the Centre has said in a letter written to all states and Union territories.The clarification comes as the Union health ministry was receiving several queries regarding the coverage of family members of workers, after the Centre allowed both private and government officers to operationalise vaccination centre at workplaces from April 11. At that time, vaccination was limited to people above 45 years. From May 1, in which everyone above the age of 18 years is eligible for vaccination."The family members and dependents of the workers, as defined by the respective employers, can also be covered with Covid-19 vaccination at industrial CVCs (Covid vaccination centres)and the workplace CVCs," the letter said. However, the vaccine has to be procured by the private hospitals with whom the employers may tie up. In the ongoing phase, state governments and private hospitals can procure vaccines directly from the manufacturers.In government offices, those who are above the age of 45 years can be covered through the free vaccine doses supplied by the Centre. The 18-44 age group employees of government officers may be covered through the vaccine doses procured by the state governments, the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccination-at-workplaces-who-can-receive-jabs-centre-issues-order-101621700876828.html
22-05-2021||India||Black Fungus declared an epidemic in Bihar||The Bihar government on Saturday evening declared Mucormycosis or Black Fungus an epidemic under Section 2 of the Epidemic Disease Act 1897.Providing this information through a tweet in Hindi, health minister Mangal Pandey said, “Following instructions from chief minister Nitish Kumar, Black Fungus has been made a notifiable disease under the Epidemic Disease Act. Government and private hospitals will have to inform the health department through a civil surgeon. Patients will get free medicine.”A notifiable disease is any disease that is required by law to be reported to government authorities. The collation of information allows the authorities to monitor the disease and provides early warning of possible outbreaks.The Centre, a few days ago, had asked states to declare Black Fungus as an epidemic under the Epidemic Disease Act within the pandemic. The state till Friday had reported 117 cases of Black Fungus.The Bihar government had on May 18 designated the AIIMS-Patna and the IGIMS as centres of excellence for the treatment of Mucormycosis, said Bihar’s additional chief secretary (health) Pratyaya Amrit.AIIMS has created a separate 20-bed ward for effective treatment of such cases.Bihar has diverted around 14,000 vials of Liposomal Amphotericin-B injection, a specific drug for the treatment of black fungus, available under the Kala-azar elimination programme. Around 6,000 vials of the injection from this stock were made available to different hospitals.Bihar CM Nitish Kumar launched mobile RT-PCR testing vans which will move in rural areas to speed up testing for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/black-fungus-declared-an-epidemic-in-bihar-101621700878929.html
22-05-2021||India||‘Ramdev was reading WhatsApp forward’: Patanjali on ‘allopathy is stupid’ video||Patanjali Yogpeeth Trust on Saturday clarified that yoga guru Ramdev has the utmost respect for medical science and said that Indian Medical Association (IMA)'s allegation that the yoga guru defamed allopathy and scientific medicine is untrue.In a statement issued by the Haridwar-based Patanjali Yogpeeth Trust, it was said that Ramdev was reading ‘a forwarded WhatsApp message received by him’. “Swami ji has no ill-will against modern science and good practitioners of modern medicine. What is being attributed against him is false and nugatory,” said the statement released by Patanjali Yogpeeth Trust general secretary Acharya Balakrishna.In the 140-second long video, which has gone viral, the yoga guru can be seen reading out from his phone, where he is heard saying, “Allopathy is a stupid science. Firstly, hydroxychloroquine failed, the remdesivir failed… plasma therapy effectiveness is now banned, the steroids have failed. Even Fabiflu and Ivermectin have also failed.”Yoga guru claiming Allopathy as stupid science. This pandemic brings new shock every day. pic.twitter.com/1W9ojVOIGY“Everyone might not agree upon what I am going to say next but lakhs of people have died due to intake of allopathic medicines. More people have died due to allopathic medicines than due to lack of medical oxygen or shortage of beds,” Ramdev can be heard saying in the video.Ramdev then says that he is not against allopathy or modern medicine or improvements brought about by science and technology in the field of medicine but the theories and the practices that are applied are not sufficient.The yoga guru came under fire from the IMA and several doctors who demanded his prosecution over his statements. They wrote strongly worded statements to the government and said that Ramdev’s words cast a bad light on the sacrifices made by health workers during the pandemic and also misleads unsuspecting citizens of the country.“The Union health minister (Harsh Vardhan) who himself is a practising modern medicine allopathic postgraduate and head of this (health) ministry, should either accept the challenge and accusation of this gentleman and dissolve the modern medical facility or boldly face and prosecute the person for his words of arson on the sovereignty of the country and book him under the Epidemic Act to save millions of people from such unscientific utterances,” the IMA said in a statement earlier on Saturday.(with inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ramdev-has-no-ill-will-towards-modern-science-patanjali-trust-101621700345697.html
22-05-2021||India||What is intestinal black fungus? 2 rare cases of mucormycosis at Delhi hospital||Mucormycosis or black fungus which affects the eyes, the brain or the lungs has emerged as a major threat in India as the country is gradually tiding over the second wave of the Coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. Amid this, a rare type of black fungus disease has been reported in the national Capital where the fungus infection has been found in the small intestine, reports said quoting the doctors of Delhi's Sir Ganga Ram Hospital. Two such cases have been reported at the private hospital, but one of them did not receive steroid, the misuse of which has been blamed for the rise in the number of fungal infection cases.Both the patients, however, have high blood sugar level and were recovering from Covid-19. Both had to be operated.What is intestinal black fungus?Mucormycosis can attack different organs of the body, but broadly there are two types — rhino orbital cerebral mucormycosis, which affected the nose, the eyes, the mouth and something spread to the brain, and pulmonary mucormycosis that affects the respiratory system.The fungus can also infect the gastrointestinal tract, skin, and other organs but those are rare. The fungal spores are present in the air, soil and even in food.Two 'rare cases in DelhiAs symptoms, both the patients had mild abdominal pain; like that of gastritis. But the CT scan revealed a perforation in the small intestine. Both the patients were above 50 years old, the hospital authorities said, according to news agency PTI. One of them is a 56-year-old, who lost three of his family members, including his wife to Covid. The other person is 69 years old and had received steroids for Covid."These patients, in the majority, are immune-compromised. Majority of gastro-intestinal mucormycosis is seen in organ transplant recipients. The cases treated at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital were unique as they had Covid and small intestine (instead of stomach/colon) was involved in both cases," the statement released by the hospital said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-is-intestinal-black-fungus-2-rare-cases-of-mucormycosis-at-delhi-hospital-101621698241080.html
22-05-2021||India||Cyclone Yaas unlikely to match intensity of super cyclonic storm Amphan, says IMD||Cyclone Yaas, which may hit the West Bengal coast on May 26, is unlikely to match the intensity of Amphan, which had assumed the shape of a Super Cyclone last year at about the same time. “Probability is highest that Yaas will hit the West Bengal coast after intensifying into a very severe cyclone. As of now it is unlikely to match the intensity of Amphan,” said GK Das, director of the IMD’s regional office in Kolkata. On May 25, the wind speed along the West Bengal coastline, while the cyclone is still at sea, would be around 50-60 km per hours gusting up to 70 km per hour. In the early hours of May 26, the wind speed would be around 60–70 km per hour and gusting up to 80 km per hour. ALSO READ | 65 NDRF teams deployed as Yaas likely to become ‘very severe cyclonic storm’“In the forenoon of May 26 the wind speed will reach around 100 km per hour. In the evening as the cyclone approaches, the wind speed would pick up further and may remain around 120 km per hour,” said Das. Amphan had hit the Sunderbans in south Bengal on May 20 last year with a wind speed of 155–165 km per hour and gusting up to 185 km per hour. It had killed 98 people while pummelling through six districts. “It had intensified into a Super Cyclone over the sea around May 18, but had weakened into a very severe cyclone before hitting the Bengal coast on May 20,” said a senior official. But it is not Cyclone Yaas alone that is worrying experts and officials. The spring tide, which coincides with the full moon, is also on May 26. “During the spring tide the water level in the sea and estuaries remains higher than normal and the tides are much higher. If the timing coincides with Cyclone Yaas, the storm surge would be much higher and devastating. Embankments in the Sunderbans may breach and large areas may get flooded. The devastation would be more if the cyclone strikes in an east to west direction as was seen during Cyclone Aila in May 2009,” said Tuhin Ghosh, director of the School of Oceanographic Studies at Jadavpur University. ALSO READ | Cyclone Yaas likely to intensify into very severe cyclonic storm: IMDDistrict administrations particularly in the coastal block and Sunderban islands have already started strengthening the embankments that form the only barricades between the rivers and villages. “We have already started strengthening the embankments and increasing their height so that the water cannot enter the villages over the top of the embankments,” said a senior official of North 24 Parganas, associated with disaster management. The Covid-19 pandemic has added to the worries of the administration. Even though Cyclone Amphan had also hit when Covid-19 was taking its toll, this time the situation is more alarming. On May 20, 2020 when Amphan had made landfall, West Bengal had registered 142 new Covid-19 cases. On May 20 this year the state recorded 19,091 cases. “Last year on May 20, North 24 Parganas, South 24 Parganas and East Midnapore, the three coastal districts which always bear the first brunt of cyclones, had only 234, 66 and 21 active cases respectively. Now, the same districts have 27,268, 8,290 and 5,498 active cases respectively,” said a health department official. District officials said that the number of cyclone and relief shelters, where evacuated people would be kept, was being increased by roping in school and college buildings so that social distancing could be maintained. “Safe homes were being set up in such buildings so that anyone showing symptoms could be isolated after a Rapid Antigen Test. Ambulances were being kept ready and oxygen was being stored in district hospitals and rural health centres. Teams from the electric supply department were also being kept on standby so that in case of power cuts generators could be used,” said a BDO of South 24 Parganas. In the villages of coastal districts, district officials have already started making announcements on loudspeakers about the approaching cyclonic storm and the evacuation process that could be started on May 25. Fishermen were being asked not to venture out into the sea. In Kolkata too, the city police and city’s civic body were gearing up for the storm. Separate teams were being formed for each area, generators, pumps and heavy machines to remove uprooted trees were being kept on standby. Leave of all officials have been cancelled and control rooms have been set up ahead of the approaching cyclone. “We are monitoring the cyclone and by tomorrow the situation about its trajectory would become clearer,” said a meteorological department official in Kolkata.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-yaas-unlikely-to-match-intensity-of-super-cyclonic-storm-amphan-says-imd-101621697518956.html
22-05-2021||India||Corona curfew extended in UP till May 31; active caseload drops below 1 lakh||The Uttar Pradesh government has decided to extend the ongoing partial Corona curfew till 7am on May 31. The restrictions, which have been in place since April 30, were supposed to come to an end on May 24. The restrictions have been extended in several phases in the first and the second week of May. There will be no new curbs, as essential and emergency services, including medical, groceries, industries, e-commerce, will remain exempt. Vaccination too will continue in this period, the government said."The Uttar Pradesh government is committed to safeguard the life and livelihood of people of the state. Keeping this in mind, the policy of partial coronavirus curfew was adopted,” the statement, issued by the government announcing the extension of the lockdown said. It also said that the restrictions yielded positive results. Several states remained under lockdown for the entire month of May as the authorities are not taking the risk of reopening in the last week of the month, at a time when the situation is improving with a steady dip in the number of daily infections.In April, the Covid-19 situation of Uttar Pradesh was precarious with Varanasi emerging as one of the hotspots. After three weeks of 'Corona curfew', the situation seems to have come under control as there has been a 68 per cent fall in the number of active Covid cases since the peak. However, the daily toll in the state is still above 100. From over 3 lakh active Covid-19 cases, the figure has now nosedived to below 1 lakh.On Saturday, the state's active caseload was 94,482, while 226 deaths were recorded in the last 24 hours. Out of these deaths, Lucknow recorded 21 fatalities, followed by 14 in Varanasi and 12 in Gorakhpur and Kanpur and Meerut 10 each, among others.Uttar Pradesh has also become the first state to condict over three lakh tests in a day, the government said on Saturday. Over 3.06 samples were tested for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/corona-curfew-extended-in-up-till-may-31-101621696844804.html
22-05-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Govt says breastfeeding should not be halted post-vaccination and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Breastfeeding should not be halted even for an hour: Centre on new vaccine rulesAmid doubts and speculations on whether lactating women have to stop breastfeeding for a day or two after getting vaccinated against Covid-19, the Centre on Saturday said that there should be no disruption in breastfeeding because of the vaccine. Read moreCongress appoints VD Satheesan as leader of opposition in KeralaAfter days of uncertainty and long deliberations, the Congress on Saturday, selected senior leader VD Satheesan as the leader of opposition in Kerala. Read more'PMCries': Rahul blames govt for Covid impact on economy, vaccine shortageCongress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday criticised the central government over its handling of the pandemic and took a jibe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the ongoing Covid-19 situation in the country. Read moreCovid-19: Triple lockdown to continue in Kerala’s MalappuramKerala’s chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday said that the triple lockdown will continue in the Malappuram district, where the test positivity rate is higher. Read moreWTC Final: 'They have all bases covered,' Former batsman says Team India not 'over-dependent' on Virat KohliThe Virat Kohli-led Indian team will face off against Kane Williamson's New Zealand in the inaugural World Test Championship final at Southampton from June 18th. Read moreArjun Kapoor on mom's reaction to dad Boney marrying Sridevi: 'She never said your father has left us high and dry'Actor Arjun Kapoor has said that his mother never harboured any ill will towards his father, producer Boney Kapoor. Boney was married to Mona Shourie, Arjun's mother, when he began a relationship with the late actor Sridevi. Read moreDelhi Police is warning everyone about fake KYC messages: Here's what you need to knowThe cybercrime cell of Delhi Police is warning citizens about a potential scam wherein fraudsters are duping innocent users by asking them to verify their numbers owing to Know Your Customer (KYC) issues. Read moreAmit Trivedi shares clip of hospital staff singing Namo Namo for Covid patientsAmid the times of peril posed by the pandemic, the healthcare workers are doing their best to make the patients feel better. From dedicating songs to make them feel better, many were spotted dancing with the patients to boost up their morale. Read moreWatch | Covid: Is it possible to get 2nd dose of different vaccine? NITI Aayog answers||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-breastfeeding-should-not-be-halted-even-for-an-hour-centre-on-new-vaccine-rules-and-all-the-latest-news-101621694692051.html
22-05-2021||India||Covid stabilising in large parts of country but positivity still over 10% in 382 districts: Govt||The Centre said that even though the Covid-19 pandemic is stabilising in large parts of the country, there is still a long way to go to battle this particular wave as the positivity rate is still over 10 per cent in 382 districts.Addressing a press conference, NITI Aayog member (Health) V K Paul said India was able to come this far in controlling this pandemic through restrictions on social and economic activities and containment and care measures."In large parts of the country, the pandemic is stabilising, the positivity rate and active cases are reducing and recovery rate is rising. It is also being seen that an increase is being seen in other states so this is a mixed picture but overall there has been a decrease in case burden but we have a long way to go to handle this wave and we also have to ensure that there should be no laxity in the steps we take," he said."As the situation improves we need to keep ensuring that the chain of transmission remains broken. In 382 districts, the positivity rate is over 10 per cent so there is still a long way to go to battle this particular wave," he said.Agarwal said a continuous decline in the Covid-19 active cases has been noted in the last 20 days."From 17.13 per cent reported on May 3, the active cases now comprise 11.12 per cent of the country's total infections. A positive trend in the recovery has also been noted. The recovery rate which was 81.7 per cent on May 3 has increased to 87.76 per cent now," he said.Also, the daily recoveries outnumbered daily new cases for ninth consecutive day, he added.Agarwal said despite consistent increase in daily tests, India's daily positivity rate has declined from 24.83 per cent recorded on May 10 to 12.45 per cent on May 22."Also, a slow but relatively better trend in terms of management is being noted in deaths and most fatalities have been noted in six states -- Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, UP, Punjab, Delhi," he said.Agarwal said districts reporting week-on-week increase in tests and decline in case positivity has increased from 210 to 303 districts."Eight states have more than one lakh active cases and 18 states have more than 15 per cent positivity rate," he said.Talking about vaccine wastage he said, Covishield vaccine wastage reduced from 8 per cent in March 1 to one per cent now while Covaxin wastage decreased from 17 per cent to 4 per cent in the same period.Paul clarified that lactating women can get vaccinated."There were reports that after vaccination mothers should not breast feed their child for a couple of days but I want to clarify that breastfeeding should not be stopped and should be continued and in no situation there is any reason in that context to halt or discontinue breastfeeding even for an hour," he said.On Covid-19 prevalence among children, Paul said seropositivity rate between 10-17 years is roughly the same as between 30-40 and children can also spread the infection."Whenever children contracted the infection then almost always symptoms are minimal, very mild disease or they are asymptomatic and because it is mild the mortality is very very less in them," he said."We have a protocol of Covid disease among children. Protecting children from infection is equally important so that they do not become part of the transmission chain and the minimum risk which they face that risk they should bear brunt of so Covid appropriate behaviour is applicable in children too specially those who are mobile over 10 years of age," he said.On mucormycosis or black fungus, Paul said availability of medicines is being increased. Conditions such as diabetes, weakening of the immune system due to use of steroids, prolonged hospital stay and co-morbidities in Covid-19 may increase mucormycosis infection."Steroids is life saving. It is a wonder drug but its irrational use can lead to mucormycosis. So this outbreak does not progress and further harm is not caused, that is our responsibility," he added.Responding to a question, Agarwal said the WHO is yet to reach a consensus on the vaccine passport issue which is on allowing international travel for those fully vaccinated against coronavirus infection."So far there's no consensus at the level of WHO over this. Discussion is still being done if vaccinated people will be allowed. As of now, as per WHO guidelines and guidelines by other countries, people with negative Covid test reports are being allowed. This is in discussion and when we will be able to reach a consensus at the world and WHO level then we will take necessary steps,” he said.He was responding on a question on media reports claiming that people who took Covaxin jabs may not be allowed to travel internationally as the WHO hasn't included it in its list of vaccines. The reports were separately denied by the Health ministry on its Twitter handle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-stabilising-in-large-parts-of-country-but-positivity-still-over-10-in-382-districts-govt-101621694695140.html
22-05-2021||India||Breastfeeding should not be halted even for an hour: Centre on new vaccine rules||Amid doubts and speculations on whether lactating women have to stop breastfeeding for a day or two after getting vaccinated against Covid-19, the Centre on Saturday said that there should be no disruption in breastfeeding because of the vaccine. The Centre has recently allowed lactating mothers to take Covid-19 vaccines.Many misleading claims have been made that new mothers who take Covid-19 vaccines should not feed their newborns immediately after vaccination. The waiting period should be one to two days, according to these reports. Niti Aayog (health) member VK Paul said there has been no such advisory as there is no problem in breastfeeding after vaccination. "In no situation, breastfeeding should be halted even for an hour," he said.Pregnant and lactating women were initially excluded from the government's vaccination programme as the Covishield and Covaxin were not tried on these groups in India. Recently, the government's expert group has given a go-ahead to bring both these groups under the purview of vaccination. It said pregnant women can be given the option between the vaccines, while it is completely safe for lactating women to get vaccinated. The Centre has accepted the recommendation on lactating women and paused the one on pregnant women saying more deliberations are required before taking the final decision.Covid-19 infection does not spread from a mother to her newborn through breastmilk, doctors have already said. It can, however, transmit through the regular way of respiratory droplets. Hence, doctors have advised face masks or face shields for lactating mothers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breastfeeding-should-not-be-halted-even-for-an-hour-centre-on-new-vaccine-rules-101621693668430.html
22-05-2021||India||Congress appoints VD Satheesan as leader of opposition in Kerala||After days of uncertainty and long deliberations, the Congress on Saturday, selected senior leader VD Satheesan as the leader of opposition in Kerala. After having suffered a humiliating defeat in the recent assembly polls, the party’s strength has been reduced to 21 in the 140-member house. Satheesan (56) takes over the mantle from Ramesh Chennithala who took up many popular issues and unearthed several alleged omissions and commissions of the first Pinarayi Vijayan government. The party high command’s decision to pick Satheesan is considered a major policy shift in the faction-ridden state unit. The party has also given enough hints that state unit president Mullapally Ramachandran will also be shifted. Sensing his imminent exit, the PCC chief has expressed his desire to quit. After the poll debacle many young leaders have sought a major operation in the party to check its further slide. In the state unit two powerful groups, one led by Chennithala and the other by former CM Oommen Chandy, have always called the shots. A party team headed by senior leader Mallikarjun Kharge had met legislators last week to know their opinion. Though some of them supported Chennithala, a majority reportedly favoured a change in the party and that helped Satheesan to get the new post. “We will work as a responsible opposition and extend all support to the government in its fight against the pandemic. Fight against communal forces will top the party’s main agenda,” said the new opposition leader. Former CM Chandy, Chennithala and Mullapally Ramachandran welcomed his elevation. There are reports that Chandy is upset with the decision but he later denied it saying it was only a creation of the media. There are speculations that Chennithala will be given a key party position in Delhi. Party strongman from Kannur, K Sudhakaran, is a top contender for the PCC chief’s post. A five-time legislator from Paravur constituency in Ernakulam district-- Satheesan rose from the ranks. He started his political career when he was a student. He was the vice-president of the state unit and also served as the AICC secretary. A good debater and orator, his effective intervention in the house in crucial times was lauded. He is taking up the new position at a time when the party strength in the assembly has shrunk like never before and the party rank and file are demoralised after the crushing defeat in the recent assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-appoints-vd-satheesan-as-leader-of-opposition-in-kerala-101621693978364.html
22-05-2021||India||'PMCries': Rahul blames govt for Covid impact on economy, vaccine shortage||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday criticised the central government over its handling of the pandemic and took a jibe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the ongoing Covid-19 situation in the country.No VaccinesLowest GDPHighest Covid deaths...GOI’s response?PMCries. pic.twitter.com/b8TbfwnrlI“No Vaccines. Lowest GDP. Highest Covid deaths… GOI’s response? PMCries,” Rahul Gandhi tweeted. The parliamentarian from Wayanad tweeted a chart shared by the former chief economist of the World Bank, Kaushik Basu, which showed figures of India’s annual GDP growth and Covid-19 deaths per million population on May 21.Sharing the chart, Kaushik Basu tweeted it was baffling to see India at the bottom of the chart on both counts. “Latest data on health & economy, Asia. May 21. It is baffling to find India at the virtual bottom of the chart, given that it's one of the world's biggest vaccine producers & till 6 years ago it was one of the world's fastest growing economies,” Basu wrote.Latest data on health & economy, Asia. May 21.It's baffling to find India at the virtual bottom of the chart, given that it's one of the world's biggest vaccine producers & till 6 years ago it was one of the world's fastest growing economies. pic.twitter.com/ViGC4Tn5t9The chart showed that India’s annual GDP growth in the year 2020 was -8.0% and also showed that as of May 21, the nation has recorded 212 deaths per million people. India’s GDP is likely to suffer a GDP contraction of 7.96%, according to a report by HT.Rahul Gandhi has been critical of the government’s handling of the pandemic and in this tweet he took a jibe at Prime Minister’s recent address to Covid-19 frontline workers in his constituency in Varanasi where he became emotional while speaking of the deaths.मोदी सिस्टम के कुशासन के चलते सिर्फ़ भारत में कोरोना के साथ-साथ ब्लैक फ़ंगस महामारी है। वैक्सीन की कमी तो है ही, इस नयी महामारी की दवा की भी भारी कमी है।इससे जूझने के लिए PM ताली-थाली बजाने की घोषणा करते ही होंगे।Earlier in the day, Rahul Gandhi also blamed the government for its handling of the mucormycosis outbreak. He said that he is expecting PM Modi to ask people to ‘clap their hands or bang their utensils’ to cope with the issue. “Due to the mismanagement of the Modi system, there is now a black fungus epidemic in India along with Covid-19. Not only is there a shortage of vaccines, there is also a huge shortage of the drug required to treat this disease. In order to cope with this, the Prime Minister must announce to clap or bang the thali," he wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pmcries-rahul-blames-govt-for-covid-impact-on-economy-vaccine-shortage-101621693140958.html
22-05-2021||India||Covid-19: Triple lockdown to continue in Kerala’s Malappuram, CM Vijayan warns of 'strict action' against violators||Kerala’s chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday said that the triple lockdown will continue in the Malappuram district, where the test positivity rate is higher. He also said that the restrictions in the area would be tightened and warned of “strict action” against the violators.“Triple lockdown will continue in Malappuram district. Restrictions will be tightened as test positivity rate is high. We will conduct tests among 75,000 people on Monday and Tuesday. More police force will be deployed, directed them to take strict action against violators,” news agency ANI quoted Vijayan as saying.Also read | India’s Covid-19 active caseload at over 2.9 million; 8 states contribute 69% to national tallyEarlier on Friday (May 21), the chief minister said that the Covid-19 lockdown in Kerala has been extended till May 30. However, he also mentioned that the triple lockdown would be lifted in three districts, namely, Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam and Thrissur and it would continue in Malappuram district. Initially, the triple lockdown was imposed in all four districts, as per the state government order on May 14.Briefing on the Covid-19 situation in his state, Vijayan said, “28,514 new Covid-19 cases, 45,400 recoveries and 176 deaths reported in Kerala today. Total 2,025,319 recoveries and 7,170 deaths in the state so far. Active cases [at] 289,283,” news agency ANI reported.Watch | Drones used for sanitising public places in Kerala’s ThrissurIn the seven-day period between May 16 and 23, when the triple lockdown was in effect, the active caseload decreased in the four districts. However, Malappuram witnessed the least fall, data from the state health department’s daily bulletin showed. On May 14, Thiruvananthapuram had 44,934 active cases which came down to 20,695. Meanwhile, Thrissur’s active caseload currently stands at 22,088 from 56,194, previously reported on May 14, the highest fall among the four districts. Ernakulam witnessed its active cases shrink from 69,180 on May 14 to 45,395 on Saturday. But Malappuram currently has 47,595 active cases, a marginal reduction from the 50,778 reported on May 14.Kerala was only behind Karnataka and Maharashtra in terms of the total confirmed cases as well as active cases, according to data from the Union health ministry on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-triple-lockdown-to-continue-in-kerala-s-malappuram-chief-minister-pinarayi-vijayan-warns-of-strict-action-against-violators-101621692348008.html
22-05-2021||India||65 NDRF teams deployed as Yaas likely to become 'very severe cyclonic storm'||Odisha and all its adjoining coastal districts have been put on high alert in view of the cyclonic storm 'Yaas' in the Bay of Bengal. The National Crisis Management Committee (NCMC) on Saturday reviewed preparedness for the next cyclonic storm scheduled to hit India on May 26.The cyclone is expected to reach West Bengal and northern parts of Odisha in the evening of May 26, with wind speeds of 155-165 km per hour, accompanied by heavy rainfall and storm surges in coastal districts of the states.Also read: Mixing different Covid-19 vaccines theoretically possible, says CentreHere are the preparatory measures made against the cyclonic storm, as per the chief secretaries of the concerned states:Arrangements of an adequate stick of foodgrains, drinking water and other essential supplies have been made along with preparations to maintain essential services like power, telecommunications etc.People are being evacuated from the low lying areas.Rescue and relief teams of army, navy and coast guards with ships and aircraft have been deployed.National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has made available 65 teams, while 20 additional teams are on standby.Arrangements are also being made to ensure uninterrupted operations of hospitals and Covid Care Centres and to ensure the productions and supply of oxygen to Covid facilities across the country.Also read| Cyclone Yaas: West Bengal fishermen advised not to venture into sea from May 23The review meeting happened under the chairmanship of cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba, who laid stress on all measures to be taken in a timely manner to minimize loss of life and destruction of property.The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted that the cyclonic storm will intensify into 'very severe cyclonic storm' and will move north-northwestwards, cross West Bengal, district of Odisha and Bangaldesh coast on May 26 evening."Low-pressure area has formed over the east-central Bay of Bengal today morning. To intensify into a cyclonic storm by May 24. To intensify further into Very Severe Cyclonic Storm, move north-northwestwards and cross West Bengal and adjoining north Odisha and Bangladesh coasts around 26th evening," the department said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/65-ndrf-teams-deployed-as-yaas-likely-to-become-very-severe-cyclonic-storm-101621690044396.html
22-05-2021||India||Himachal Pradesh CM distributes home isolation kits, says pandemic nothing less than war||Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur on Saturday flagged off 11 vehicles containing home isolation kits for Covid-19 patients under home isolation.Calling the pandemic outbreak “nothing less than a war”, he urged the people to strictly adhere to Covid-19 protocol like wearing masks and maintaining social distancing.The home isolation kits contain 'chawan prash', 'kaada', protective masks, hand sanitisers, medicines, CM's message, among others.Around 90 per cent of over 31,000 active cases in the state are in home isolation.The chief minister also launched 'Himachal COVID Care' mobile application for helping in the speedy recovery of patients in home isolation.A 'Sanjeevani Specialist OPD' mobile application was also introduced wherein as many as 70 specialists of AIIMS Bilaspur will provide advice to state residents through tele-medicine service.Speaking on the occasion, Thakur expressed his gratitude to Radha Soami Satsang Beas (RSSB) management for making their complexes available for treating Covid-19 patients not only in the state but the entire country.He said a 200-bedded dedicated Covid centre has recently been made functional in Mandi. More such centres are being set up in Kangra, Solan and other districts in the Radha Soami Satsang complexes, he said.Another campaign will be launched on the lines of the Active Case Finding (ACF) programme for identifying Covid-19 patients among MLAs, councillors and panchayat representatives, the CM added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/himachal-pradesh-chief-minister-distributes-home-isolation-kits-says-pandemic-nothing-less-than-war-101621688328136.html
22-05-2021||India||‘Stop irrational steroid use in Covid treatment’: Govt on mucormycosis||The health ministry on Saturday during its daily coronavirus disease (Covid-19) press briefing highlighted that cases of mucormycosis can be prevented if the irrational use of steroids is stopped.“We have to fight mucormycosis. The disease has now taken the shape of an outbreak as it is affecting Covid-19 patients. The role of steroids in mucormycosis cannot be denied. Administration of steroids beforehand, administering steroids in high doses and giving steroids for a prolonged period is irrational,” Niti Aayog (health) member VK Paul said.Paul also highlighted that steroids help in avoiding complications that arise due to Covid-19 and it is a ‘wonder drug’ but inappropriate doses invite the risk of mucormycosis in people.“Covid-19 also affects diabetics and there could be additional reasons as well for mucormycosis. States have already announced measures to contain the disease and several states have declared it an epidemic. All steps are being taken to control the disease,” Paul further added.Lav Agarwal, joint secretary of the health ministry, also said that the government has asked five firms to ramp up production of Amphotericin-B, a drug necessary for the treatment of Covid-19. He also said that the government has given license to five additional manufacturers to start the production of the drug.VK Paul also said that mucormycosis existed before the Covid-19 pandemic but it was a rare disease.Mucormycosis is an infection caused by a fungus called mucormycetes which can enter the body through breathing or skin injuries, and has been widely reported in Covid-19 patients. The immune system can generally ward off the fungus but irrational usage of steroids during Covid-19 treatment, uncontrolled blood sugar put immunocompromised people at a higher risk of contracting the disease. India has reported at least 7,200 cases of mucormycosis and states are scrambling to acquire the drug which is vital to save patients from dying due to the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stop-irrational-steroid-use-in-covid-treatment-govt-on-mucormycosis-101621687888727.html
22-05-2021||India||Mixing different Covid-19 vaccines theoretically possible, says Centre||It is scientifically possible that an individual gets the first dose of one vaccine and the second dose of another vaccine, but it will take time to decide whether it can be recommended, the Centre has said. A recent UK study has found that it is safe to mix doses of different types of vaccines, but there will be many side effects, the study has revealed."It is plausible. But there need to be more studies. It can't be said definitively that mixing of doses can be practised. There is no robust scientific evidence. Only time will tell whether it will be done in future or not, It will depend on international studies, World Health Organization findings etc. Our experts are also continuously studying," Niti Aayog (health) member VK Paul said on Saturday."One shot of one type produces antibodies and the second shot from another will increase that. Scientifically, there is no problem," he added.Watch: Is it possible to get 2nd dose of different vaccine? NITI Aayog answersCovishield and Covaxin are the two vaccines being administered in the country. Both the vaccines consist of two doses, the second dose of which is known as the booster dose. In its several advisories, the health ministry has repetitively cautioned that the second dose of the same vaccine should be taken.The study which says mixing two doses is safe was conducted over around 2,000 volunteers and in the mix and match approach, they were given one Oxford vaccine shot and another Pfizer; another combination of Moderna and Novavax was also tried.The trial was not aimed at finding out whether a combination of two different doses is effective in preventive Covid or not. Only the immune response of the volunteers was tested and the adverse reactions were short-lived.There has been no such study yet in India mixing Covaxin and Covishield. According to the latest findings, the first dose of these two vaccines has different effectiveness. Covishield's first dose offers more protection than Covaxin's first dose and hence the second dose of Covishield can be delayed to 12 to 16 weeks, the Centre has recently said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-covishield-and-covaxin-be-mixed-what-vk-paul-says-101621687347736.html
22-05-2021||India||UP govt to vaccinate parents of children below 10 years before third wave of Covid-19||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday said preparations are underway to vaccinate parents of all children below 10 years of age against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) before the third wave of the pandemic, reported ANI."Before the third wave of corona arrives, we are making arrangements to provide protection to the parents of all children under 10 years of age by giving them vaccine doses," ANI quoted Adityanath as saying.Also read: 'Children can get and spread Covid infection,' Centre clarifies 3 pointsEmphasising the aim of the state government to pace up the vaccination process in June, Adityanath also said immunisation of judicial officers, staffers and their families are underway at Lucknow bench of High Court and Allahabad High Court. For media professionals too, he said, the state government has started the vaccination programme in this phase when the government began vaccination for the age group of 18-44 years on May 1. Vaccination for media personnel has also started at Noida and Lucknow, he added, saying that the next step is to create separate centres for judicial officers and media personnel in every district.The chief minister during a press conference in Kanpur said he has instructed all the officials to reconstruct, renovate, provide all modern types of equipment and restart a municipal corporation hospital for children, which has been closed for past years.Every medical college should prepare for 100-ICU pediatric beds, 100 bed for (Neonatal Intensive Care Unit) NICU with oxygen, 20-25 NICU bed in district hospitals and some CSC (Common Service Centre) in rural regions have also been directed to start preparing for the third wave. The chief minister said that the government's aim is to prepare for the third wave while battling the second wave.The chief minister also said that the state government aims to control the second wave of the pandemic within May 30 and urged the citizens to adhere to Covid-appropriate behaviour in order to achieve that target.For the vaccination of disabled, senior citizens, women and farmers, the government will set up centres, the chief minister said.Also read: UP govt announces reward for making villages, wards Covid-free with new campaignHe also said that patients in government hospitals or hospitals taken over by the government are being provided free treatment and food. Community kitchens have also been started in districts so that every person from rickshaw pullers to street vendors, relatives of patients can get meals twice daily, the chief minister said on a visit to Etawah.He spoke about the decline in the number of daily Covid-19 cases in the state. The active cases in the state have declined from more than 300,000 to 94,000 in the last 20 days. The positivity rate of the state currently stands at 2.4 per cent, the chief minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-govt-to-vaccinate-parents-of-children-below-10-years-before-third-wave-of-covid-19-101621683412693.html
22-05-2021||India||Former TMC leader regrets joining BJP, says wants to return to party||Sonali Guha, who was among the Trinamool Congress (TMC) leaders to defect to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ahead of the March-April assembly polls, on Saturday regretted her decision and said she wants to return to West Bengal’s ruling party. In a tweet tagging chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who swept back to power this month, Guha said her decision to join the BJP was wrong. Dipendu Biswas, another former TMC leader, earlier this week quit the BJP. A former TMC civic body chief in Cooch Behar district, who joined the BJP before the polls, has also quit the party. Guha is a four-time lawmaker while Biswas, a former Indian football captain, has also been a member of the legislative assembly once. The two joined the BJP in March this year. “Just like a fish cannot survive out of the water, I cannot survive without Mamata Banerjee. I was getting suffocated in BJP. I am severing all ties with the BJP and would join the TMC whenever Didi [Banerjee] calls me,” Guha told reporters. Biswas has not announced his political future plans and said he is concentrating on football. “This is the time to fight Covid-19. But two senior ministers were arrested by the CBI [Central Bureau of Investigation] at this time. I could not take this and hence I quit the party [BJP],” he said. Some Tollywood actors, who joined the BJP ahead of the elections, have also raised their voices against the arrest of TMC leaders amid the pandemic.The CBI arrested three TMC legislators, including two Cabinet ministers, and a former mayor on corruption charges related to the 2016 Narada sting operation case. The BJP has maintained that the party has nothing to do with the arrests and said the law was taking its own course in the case. It has also downplayed the exits. “I am not aware if anyone has quit. Many people, including leaders, have joined the party. To quit is an individual’s decision. Our party workers are under attack. Those who can fight back will stay,” said Dilip Ghosh, the BJP’s Bengal chief. A TMC leader said quite a few former TMC leaders, who earlier joined the BJP, have now got in touch with them once again even though the ruling party has clarified that it has not been decided yet whether the turncoats would be allowed to return.Over two dozen TMC legislators have joined the BJP since 2019. At least 19 of them were given tickets to contest the 2021 assembly polls. A BJP worker said that if the number of actors or other personalities is added to this list, 149 out of 292 tickets went to those without roots in the party.Kunal Ghosh, a TMC spokesman, refused to comment as the party has not taken any decision on whether or not to take back those who had left the party in adverse times. “The BJP inducted many leaders beating drums ahead of the elections. Many now want to quit, I have heard.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-tmc-leader-regrets-joining-bjp-says-wants-to-return-to-party-101621683418379.html
22-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Govt creates pool of trained drivers for medical oxygen transport and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Centre asks states to create pool of trained drivers for transporting liquid oxygenThe transport ministry on Saturday said there is an urgent need to make available a large pool of trained drivers who can supplement or replace the existing drivers. Read more here. 'Enough is enough': IMA demands prosecution of Ramdev under Epidemics Act"Enough is enough," IMA said slamming Ramdev for what it called “repeatedly taking advantage of the situation and creating fear among the public to sell his illegal drugs.” Read more here. 'If he doesn't get a 100, we think he hasn't scored at all': Butt discusses Virat Kohli's 'mental barrier in ICC events'Former Pakistan batsman Salman Butt feels what Virat Kohli has achieved in his professional cricket career is phenomenal and backs the India captain to soon end his century drought. Read more here.Birthday girl Suhana Khan is the face of Gen-Z fashion, proof in stunning picsSuhana Khan turned 21 today and in order to celebrate her, we are taking a trip down memory lane and checking out some of her most stunning sartorial moments. Read more here. Vikram Bhatt on Alia Bhatt being trolled for Gangubai Kathiawadi teaser: ‘Skin of an entertainer should be thick’Vikram Bhatt reacted to Alia Bhatt being criticised for the timing of the release of the Gangubai Kathiawadi teaser. He said that the ‘skin of an entertainer should be thick’. Read more here. Pigs, garbage, water-logging: Hospital in Bihar in shocking state amid Covid﻿Severe water-logging, stray animals like pigs, and accumulation of garbage are some of the ills plaguing the hospital on which people of areas like Saharsa, Samastipur, and Madhubani are reportedly dependent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-govt-creates-pool-of-trained-driver-for-medical-oxygen-101621681943544.html
22-05-2021||India||Congress insulted nation by referring to Covid-19 variant as Indian: Javadekar||Union Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar on Saturday accused the Congress party of “insulting the nation” by referring to the B.1.617 variant of the Coronavirus as the Indian variant and said the opposition party has not only been stoking fear and apprehension, but also weakening the fight against the pandemic. Addressing the media, Javadekar said Congress president Sonia Gandhi should explain why her party is engaging in negative politics and why she has not criticised her party colleague and former Madhya Pradesh chief minister, Kamal Nath’s statement on the variant being Indian. “He called it the Indian Corona. And said Hamari Pechaan, Mera Bharat Covid. This is an insult to India. Many other Congress leaders have also done so. The WHO has already clarified that no country’s name has been attributed to any variant,” Javadekar said.Kamal Nath while attacking the government for its response to the second wave of Covid-19 had referred to the B.1.167 variant as the Indian variant. On the letter Gandhi has written to Prime Minister Modi on the procurement of drugs for patients of black fungus, the minister said the government has already taken proactive steps to procure the necessary medicines for the over 9000 patients across the country. In her letter to the PM, the Congress chief said there is an acute shortage of vital drug Amphotericin-B that is required to treat Mucormycosis or black fungus. She also said that the since the black fungus infection is not covered under the Ayushmann Bharat that offers free health insurance to the poor, the government should provide relief to a large number of patients who cannot afford the treatment.Javadekar, however, said the opposition has not played a constructive role and instead created doubts about the vaccines. “When Covaxin was developed after research in the country they called it the BJP vaccine; now when the vaccine has proved effective, they are spreading doubts and fears that there will be a travel ban because it is not on the list of vaccines that are globally recognised... As far as I know WHO has not taken any such decision, but the Congress’s statements show the party is insulting the country and weakening the fight against the pandemic,” the minister said.On the Delhi government’s demand for more vaccines for the state, Javadekar said the Union government is making all efforts to undertake distribution of vaccines to all states. “The 50 lakh vaccines that have been provided to Delhi so far were provided by the Union government. It is the Union government that has provided the 20 crore plus vaccines in the country and in future also it will continue to do so,” he said.Javadekar said Health Minister Harsh Vardhan has already explained how the government plans to meet the demand for vaccines to inoculate all by the end of December. Criticising Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, the minister said earlier he complained about oxygen shortage and then said there is sufficient supply. “He has to stop making excuses,” Javadekar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-insulted-nation-by-referring-to-covid-19-variant-as-indian-javadekar-101621682218060.html
22-05-2021||India||Children can get and spread Covid infection': Centre clarifies 3 points amid 3rd wave concerns||Amid concerns over a probable third wave of the Coronavirus pandemic, the Centre on Saturday said children are not immune from the infection, but the impact is minimal. "If children get affected by Covid, either there will be no symptoms or there will be minimal symptoms. They do not require hospitalisation generally," Niti Aayog (health) member VK Paul said on Saturday, during the press briefing of the Union health ministry.Explaining three points about Covid-19 infection among children, Dr Paul said that children are not immune from this infection and they can infect others but children do not generally suffer from severe infection. Health infrastructure should be ramped up to treat Covid-19 among children, but it is most important to not let them become a part of the transmission chain in the first place, Dr Paul said. "Some facts are clear in front of us. Children can be infected and they can be infected to quite an extent. It can't be said with certainty that the infection among children is comparatively less. For example, the December-January serosurvey revealed that the seropositivity rate among children and older is almost the same," Dr Paul said.Fauci expects Covid-19 vaccines for children by late-2021 or early 2022Children account for about 3-4 per cent of hospital admission, in both India and the rest of the world, he said adding special attention should be on those between the age of 10 and 12 years as they are very mobile. As the ongoing second wave of the pandemic is gradually coming under control with a steady fall in the number of daily positive cases and in the positivity rate, concerns over a third wave have been expressed by experts, state governments. It has also been apprehended that this possible third wave may impact children.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in a recent meeting with state and district officials, has asked them to collect data on the infection transmission and severity among youth and children. Earlier, the Maharashtra government said it started preparing for the third wave of the pandemic and started setting up paediatric Covid wards for children. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal too said children could be at an increased risk of contracting this infection.In the first wave of the pandemic, people above the age of 45 were considered to be the most vulnerable to the infection. In the ongoing second wave, many young people contracted the infection, but according to medical data, there has not been any significant shift in age group and people aged between 45 and 60 years are still the most vulnerable, the health ministry has said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/children-can-get-and-spread-covid-but-centre-amid-3rd-wave-concerns-101621681163932.html
22-05-2021||India||Govt asks social platforms to take down ‘Indian Covid variant’ posts||The Union ministry of electronics and information technology has written to all social media platforms to remove content that “names, refers to, or implies that there is an ‘Indian variant’ of Covid-19,” HT has learnt.“It has come to our knowledge that a false statement is being circulated online which implies that an ‘Indian variant’ of coronavirus is spreading across the countries. This is completely FALSE. There is no such variant of Covid-19 scientifically cited as such by the World Health Organisation (WHO). WHO has not associated the term “Indian Variant” with the B.1.617 variant of the coronavirus in any of its reports,” the ministry wrote in the letter.According to the communication sent by the ministry, the Union ministry of health, on May 12, clarified that there is no Indian variant of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as the World Health Organization does not name any variant after the country where it has been first reported from.A senior Indian government source told Reuters the notice was issued to send a message “loud and clear” that such mentions of “Indian variant” spread miscommunication and hurt the country’s image.This comes as India, on Friday, continued to report a dip in its confirmed coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases while associated fatalities remained below record levels in the last 24 hours. As per the health bulletin released by the Union ministry of health and family welfare, 257,299 tested positive for Covid-19 in the past 24 hours across the country while 4,194 patients succumbed to the deadly virus. While the country’s cumulative Covid-19 death toll stands at 2,95,525, the total number of cases is at a whopping 26,289,290 till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-asks-social-platforms-to-take-down-indian-covid-variant-posts-101621679577922.html
22-05-2021||India||'Enough is enough': IMA demands prosecution of Ramdev under Epidemics Act||Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Saturday lashed out at Yoga guru Ramdev for his remarks on allopathy and demanded the Union health minister Harsh Vardhan to prosecute him under Epidemic Diseases Act 1897 or accept his accusations and dissolve the modern medical facility."Enough is enough," IMA said slamming Ramdev for what it called “repeatedly taking advantage of the situation and creating fear among the public to sell his illegal drugs.”Also read| 6 feet or 10 metres: What experts say about safe distance to keep Covid at bay"When such idolised personal are making vitriolic comments, questioning the authority and integrity of the whole architecture of health ministry, the health minister, who himself is a practicing modern medicine allopathic postgraduate and the head of this ministry, should either accept the challenge and accusation of this gentleman and dissolve the modern medicine facility or boldly face and prosecute the person for his words of arson on the sovereignty of the country and book him under the Epidemic Diseases Act to save millions of people from such unscientific utterances," IMA wrote to the health minister.The apex medical body hits out at Ramdev over a video circulating in social media, in which he said, 'Allopathy ek aisi stupid aur diwaliya science hai'. The IMA also said that he has called modern medical doctors “murderers” in the presence of the health minister while releasing his medicines.IMA accused Ramdev of making false claims against modern medicine to sell illegal and unapproved drugs. It said that he even challenged the integrity of DCGI, the head of which is the health minister himself, as he claimed that Remdesivir, Favipiravir and all other approved drugs by DCGI have failed. 'Lakho logo ki maut allopathy ki dawa khane se hui hai', Ramdev said, as per the IMA."Remdesivir and Favipiravir are approved by CDSCO (Central Drug Standard Control Organisation) and were notified for use for the covid patient by the Central Government in June-July, 2020. The said Notification was made by the Centre under section 2A of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. Therefore, u/s 3 of the Epidemic Disease Act read with Section 188 of IPC, Swami Ramdev deserves to be prosecuted for disobeying and causing danger to the life of many by making them believe and make them not to take the advice of allopathy drugs," IMA said.Also read| 269 doctors died of Covid-19 in second wave: IMAIMA also cited the earlier controversies around Ramdev's Coronil and Swasari medicine and the criminal complaint against him by social worker Tamanna Hashmi for putting the lives of people in danger to prove the irresponsibility of the internationally known pharmaceutical owner."However, it is a well-known fact that the Yoga guru and his associate Shri Balkrishna have been taking modern medical allopathy treatment as and when they contract illness," the IMA said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/enough-is-enough-ima-demands-prosecution-of-ramdev-under-epidemics-act-101621673699310.html
22-05-2021||India||Meerut twins lose Covid-19 battle just days after their 24th birthday||As several people have lost their loved ones amid the second wave of coronavirus, a family in Meerut has lost twin sons post Covid-19 complications.The duo turned 24 a day before they were tested positive for the virus.Born three minutes apart on April 23, 1997 to Gregory Raymond and Soja Raphael, both employed as school teachers in Meerut, identical twins Joefred and Ralphred Gregory breathed their last on Thursday and Friday respectively in a city hospital.According to their parents, the twins who were engineers celebrated their 24th birthday this April and both contracted Covid-19 a day later. Their father Gregory said that both his sons were isolated at home after testing positive for the virus.He added, "Amid increasing cases of corona in Meerut, our area was among the containment zones. For this reason, I was treating them at home. I thought that their fever would subside, but it did not happen. They died on May 13 and 14 due to Covid-19. When the oxygen levels of both the sons started dropping below 90, the doctors advised us to admit them to a hospital."Gregory said that he admitted his sons to a private city hospital on May 1.The parents stated that the first corona report of their sons came positive, but after a few days their second RT-PCR report had come negative.They further said that the doctors were planning to shift the duo from the corona ward to the ICU.Gregory said that on April 13, he came to know that his son Joffred had died of post Covid complications, after which he had decided to move Ralphred to a hospital in Dehi but he too died the next day on May 14.The shattered parents said the death of their sons has left a void in their lives forever.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meerut-twins-lose-covid-19-battle-just-days-after-their-24th-birthday-101621677818451.html
22-05-2021||India||Tamil Nadu extends Covid-19 lockdown by a week from May 24||Tamil Nadu on Saturday extended the Covid-19 lockdown by a week from May 24 without any relaxations.Earlier, the lockdown had commenced on May 10 to help prevent the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and it was supposed to end on May 24.Citing the view of medical experts that the coronavirus spread is likely to peak soon in Tamil Nadu, chief minister MK Stalin had earlier said that everyone must follow the Covid-19 related guidelines."There were views that a third wave of the virus was also probable and we have to be ready to tackle it also. The day when no one was infected with the virus would really be a day of joy and only then would he be happy," Stalin said.Stalin also said that the pace of the coronavirus spread has been slowed down and the number of fresh infections has been controlled."This was due to the lockdown and many measures aimed at preventing the spread of Covid-19, he added.Tamil Nadu on Friday reported 36,184 new Covid-19 cases. The state has 2,74,629 active cases and 19,598 people have succumbed to the infection till date. The number of deaths stood at 467.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-extends-covid-19-lockdown-by-a-week-from-may-24-101621675695393.html
22-05-2021||India||6 feet or 10 metres: What experts say about safe distance to keep Covid at bay||The recent Covid-19 guideline issued by the principal scientific adviser to the government has said that aerosols from a Covid-19 infected person can travel in the air up to 10 metres, which is around 32 feet, while in its earlier guidelines, the health ministry has advised maintaining 'do gaj ki duri', which is around six feet. So, do people need to keep a distance of 10 metres now? Dr Ved Chaturvedi (Lt General) of Delhi's Gangaram Hospital is of the opinion that a distance of 10 metres is advisable but most of the Covid-19 infections spread through droplets in the vicinity, and not through aerosols which are found to travel up to 10 metres."The finding that the virus can travel up to 10 metres has also been supported by The Lancet. But maintaining 'do gaj ki duri' is crucial as most cases are found in the close proximity of an infected person through droplets which spread when a person is speaking. But many people have said that they have not gone outside and not come in close contact with anyone, but still got the infection. So, the virus can remain suspended in the air and can infect another. If an infected person coughs, sings, laughs, talks loudly, infected aerosols can move in the direction of the wind," Dr Chaturvedi said in an interview with All India Radio.But as maintaining a distance of 10 metres may not be possible, good ventilation can come to help, Indian Council of Medical Research chief Dr Balram Bhargava has said. "First, it was found that the virus transmits through droplets. Now it has been found that there are microdroplets that can remain suspended in the air for at least 2-3 hours. Some studies have pointed out that microdroplets can remain in the air for 3 hours. For droplets, we recommend a distance of six feet. For micro-droplets, we recommend good ventilation so that these can be dispersed," Dr Bhargava has recently said.However, wearing masks as advised can provide protection at any distance, experts have said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-feet-or-10-metres-what-experts-say-about-safe-distance-to-keep-covid-at-bay-101621677580166.html
22-05-2021||India||Covid-19: Here’s a list of organisations helping India cope with the pandemic||As India reels under the second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, some organisations based out of the country are stepping up to help people find the supplies they need like medicines and oxygen and are even running donation campaigns for the same. The most common platform these organisations are using to reach out to the maximum number of people is their social media accounts, especially Twitter accounts. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageHere are some organisations involved in Covid-19 relief work:Milaap: This Bengaluru-based fundraising organisation has over 21,400 followers on Twitter. It posts about people in need of money for treatment or procurement of medical facilities, including those with Covid-19.GiveIndia: This is a non profit organisation also based out of Bengaluru. This too, is a donation platform with over 578,000 followers on Twitter.Uday Foundation: Uday Foundation is also a health and humanitarian assistance and relief foundation that shares SOS messages and verified leads on where to find Covid-19 resources with its over 746,800 followers on Twitter. It is based out of New Delhi.Oxfam India: A non-profit organisation that is known for its work in the field of child education, empowering women and fighting against inequality in India, Oxfam India has also devoted itself to the fight against Covid-19. It has over 269,400 followers on Twitter and is based out of New Delhi.Rapid Response: This organisation, also based out of New Delhi, is a disaster relief NGO which works for Covid-19 relief as well. It has set up a relief fund to help the community, especially the marginalised, cope with the medical supply and treatment cost. The organisation has over 14,400 followers on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-here-s-a-list-of-organisations-helping-india-cope-with-the-pandemic-101621666943535.html
22-05-2021||India||Centre asks states to create pool of trained drivers for transporting liquid oxygen||The Union ministry of road transport and highways has asked states and Union territories to create a pool of drivers trained especially to transport ‘hazardous cargo’ amid an increase in transportation and supply of liquid medical oxygen during the second Covid 19 wave, as per the statement by the ministry.“During the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, a major focus has been on quick and smooth transportation of Liquid Oxygen (LOX) to various parts of the country. In this regard, it has been brought out by the Ministry of Road Transport & Highways that as per extant rules and in consonance with the CMVR, 1989, ONLY trained drivers with adequate training and having ‘hazardous cargo’ license are allowed to operate the Liquid Oxygen (LOX) trucks,” the ministry said in a statement on Saturday.The transport ministry on Saturday said there is an urgent need to make available a large pool of trained drivers who can supplement or replace the existing drivers, keeping in mind daily operations round the clock.The transport ministry has advised states and Union territories to create a pool of trained drivers and 500 such trained drivers are to be made available immediately and the number of drivers to be increased to 2,500 in the next two months.“Also, as a part of a strategy which may be adopted to create an additional pool, the following have been suggested:-Quickly skill drivers with training in handling hazardous chemicals and LMO handling through a short program and apprenticeship,Skill HMV license holders in hazardous chemicals and LMO handling through short (3/4 days) program and apprenticeship.Such training modules have been designed with the help of the Logistics Sector Skill Council (LSSC), Indian Chemical Council (ICC), National Skill Development Corporation (NSDC) & medical oxygen manufacturers,” it added.States and UTs have been requested by the Centre to recommend some local drivers with a heavy motor vehicle (HMV)/hazardous chemical license to opt for these training programs, it said.“Also, a list of all the skilled drivers would be made available on a digital platform and the services of these trained drivers could be utilized for carrying cryogenic LMO tankers. It has also been advised that LOX tanker drivers may be facilitated with a special Covid vaccination drive and priority in admission and treatment in hospitals, in case they are found Covid infected,” the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-asks-states-to-create-pool-of-trained-drivers-for-transporting-liquid-oxygen-101621675917218.html
22-05-2021||India||Cyclone Yaas likely to intensify into very severe cyclonic storm: IMD||Cyclone Yaas is likely to intensify into a “very severe cyclonic storm” and cross the Odisha and the West Bengal coasts on May 26, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Saturday.A low pressure area formed over the east-central Bay of Bengal and the adjoining north Andaman Sea on Saturday.While a low pressure area is the first stage of formation of a cyclone, it is not necessary that all low pressure areas will intensify into cyclonic storms."The low pressure area is very likely to concentrate into a depression over eastcentral Bay of Bengal by tomorrow, the 23rd May morning. It is very likely to move north-northwestwards, intensify into a Cyclonic Storm by 24th May and further into a very severe cyclonic storm during the subsequent 24 hours," the IMD said.It would continue to move north-northwestwards, intensify further and reach north Bay of Bengal near West Bengal and the adjoining north Odisha and Bangladesh coasts by the morning of May 26, it said.“It is very likely to cross West Bengal and the adjoining north Odisha and Bangladesh coasts around the evening of 26th May,” the IMD added.Last week, extremely severe cyclone Tauktae hit the Gujarat coast and left a trail of destruction all over the western coast.As it weakened further, its impact was felt across the north Indian plains and even in the hill states of Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh.The April-May and the October-December periods are also known to witness cyclones.Last May saw the formation of two cyclones – one in the Bay of Bengal (super cyclonic storm Amphan) and the other in the Arabian Sea (severe cyclonic storm Nisarga) – that hit the Indian coasts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-yaas-likely-to-intensify-into-very-severe-cyclonic-storm-imd-101621673925243.html
22-05-2021||India||India’s Covid-19 active caseload at over 2.9 million; 8 states contribute 69% to national tally||Active caseload of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India has been witnessing a declining trend in the past few days and went below the three-million mark, according to the latest data from the centre on Saturday.The Union ministry of health and family welfare said as of Saturday, India had 2,923,400 active cases of the infection. This constitutes 11.12% of the total confirmed cases in India and is a fall of 104,525 cases from the 3,027,925 reported previously on Friday. The ministry also noted that eight states accounted for nearly 70% of the national tally.With 514,259 active cases, Karnataka contributed the highest followed by Maharashtra with 369,673 cases and Kerala with 306,719 cases. Karnataka also was the second highest contributor to the number of daily news cases detected in India after the state reported 32,218 new Covid-19 infections in the last 24 hours, data from the ministry showed. Only Tamil Nadu, with 36,184 cases, identified more new cases than Karnataka in the same time period.Also read | Black fungus: Govt allocates 23,680 additional vials of Amphotericin-B to statesHowever, the top three contributors -- Karnataka, Maharashtra and Kerala -- all witnessed a decline in their respective active caseload since Friday, the ministry also highlighted. In Karnataka, active cases fell by a significant 20,716 cases, the highest in the last 24 hours. While Maharashtra witnessed a reduction of 16,112 cases, Kerala’s count shrunk by 11,501 cases, according to the ministry’s data. Meanwhile, Tamil Nadu’s active cases count increased by 11,239 cases, the highest among all states on Friday.Tamil Nadu (274,629 cases), Andhra Pradesh (209,156 cases), West Bengal (132,181 cases), Rajasthan (131,806 cases) and Uttar Pradesh (106,276 cases) are among the states that added the highest to the national tally of active cases, along with the top three.Many states have also been witnessing a drop in their daily new cases as the country reported 257,299 infections in the previous 24 hours. However, more than 4,000 patients succumbed to their illness in the same time period for the second consecutive day as the death toll inched closer to 300,000-mark (295,525 to be exact).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-covid-19-active-caseload-at-over-2-9-million-8-states-contribute-69-to-national-tally-101621672652757.html
22-05-2021||India||Over 16 million Covid-19 vaccine doses available with states, UTs: Centre||More than 1.60 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with states and union territories, and over 2.67 lakh doses will be supplied to them in the next three day, the Union health ministry said on Saturday.In a statement, the ministry said more than 21 crore vaccine doses have been provided to states and union territories (UTs)."Of this, the total consumption, calculated based on average up to May 21, 2021, including wastage, is 19,73,61,311 doses (as per data available at 8 am today)," it said."More than 1.60 crore COVID vaccine doses (1,60,13,409) are still available with the states/UTs to be administered," the statement said.It said that 2,67,110 vaccine doses "are in the pipeline and will be received by the states/UTs within the next three days".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-16-million-covid-19-vaccine-doses-available-with-states-uts-centre-101621665308295.html
22-05-2021||India||Cyclone Yaas: West Bengal fishermen advised not to venture into sea from May 23||In view of the cyclonic storm Yaas, which is likely to form in the Bay of Bengal, the head of Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC) in Kolkata Dr Sanjib Bandyopadhyay advised the fishermen of West Bengal not to venture into the sea from May 23 evening, and advised those who are in the deep sea to return to the coast by May 23 morning.Bandyopadhyay said that a low-pressure area is very likely to form over North Andaman Sea and adjoining East Central Bay of Bengal around May 22 and is very likely to intensify gradually into a cyclonic storm by May 24."It would move northwestwards and reach near Odisha-West Bengal coasts around May 26 morning," the chief of RMC Kolkata said.Dr Bandyopadhyay informed that the coastal districts of West Bengal will be witnessing light to moderate rainfall at most places with heavy falls at isolated places from May 25 with a significant increase in intensity."We have issued a warning for the fishermen of West Bengal. They are advised not to venture into the sea from May 23, till further information. Those who are in the deep sea are advised to return to the coast by May 23 morning," he added.The IMD had earlier predicted that the cyclonic storm Yaas will hit the coasts of Odisha and West Bengal on May 26 and both the states will experience heavy rainfall from May 22 to 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-yaas-west-bengal-fishermen-advised-not-to-venture-into-sea-from-may-23-101621672260263.html
22-05-2021||India||Sonia Gandhi writes to Modi over shortage of mucormycosis drug||Congress chief Sonia Gandhi on Saturday cited reports of shortage of a medicine needed to treat mucormycosis or black fungus as she wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and sought immediate relief for those suffering from the disease.Black fungus has emerged as a major, potentially life-threatening Covid-19 complication and on Thursday prompted the Centre to ask states to declare the disease notifiable under the Epidemic Diseases Act.Gandhi requested Modi to have the disease covered under the Ayushman Bharat and other government health insurance schemes. “...the illness is not covered under Ayushman Bharat and most other health insurance products. I would request you to kindly take immediate action on the matter...”She cited the Centre’s advisory to the states on declaring mucormycosis as an epidemic and added this means that there must be an adequate production and assured supply of essential medicines to treat the disease. She also called for free treatment of the disease. Gandhi said Liposomal Amphotericin-B needed to treat the disease should be immediately made available to the states while citing reports of its shortage.She wrote to Modi a day after the Prime Minister warned against the “new challenge of black fungus” and said the country must be prepared to fight the fatal condition increasingly being reported among recovering Covid-19 patients.The Centre on Thursday told the Delhi high court that there were 7,251 cases of mucormycosis in India as of May 19.Mucormycosis is a fungal infection with a fatality rate of at least 50%. Typically a rare disease, experts and doctors say thousands have now contracted it because of an overuse of steroids or due to suppression of their immune system, which is often a fallout of attempts to stop the life-threatening immune overreaction due to Covid-19.The actual spread of the disease is likely be wider, and authorities in several states have now sounded the alarm on the disease. Over 200 deaths have been recorded due to mucormycosis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-gandhi-writes-to-modi-over-shortage-of-mucormycosis-drug-101621671896727.html
22-05-2021||India||Madhya Pradesh's positivity rate dips below 5%; govt to ease 'covid curfew' from June 1||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Saturday said that the restrictions imposed in the state to contain coronavirus disease (Covid-19) will be lifted from June 1. The chief minister announced the beginning of the 'unlock' phase as he said that the positivity rate in the state has come down to around 4%. "Having an infection rate of up to 5% means that it is under control," Chouhan added."We have to open #MPJantaCurfew from June 1, but open it in such a way that its infection does not spread again," Chouhan said.हमें 1 जून से #MPJantaCurfew को खोलना है, लेकिन खोलना इस तरह से है कि फिर से इसका संक्रमण फैलने न पाये।: मुख्यमंत्री श्री @ChouhanShivraj #MPFightsCorona #IndiaFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/fGySuLckKa"We are fighting a long war against # Covid-19 and I am happy to inform you today that the positivity rate in the state has come down to around 4 percent," the chief minister announced.The chief minister urged the citizens to strictly follow the guidelines of the Covid-19 curfew till May 31 to prevent the spread. He also laid stress on testing of the migrant workers entering the state and asked the officials to ensure that the benefits of the schemes for the workers reach them, as he said this is the necessity against the Covid-induced challenges.Chouhan further said that the installation process for the oxygen plant is ongoing at a rapid pace to prevent any lack of the essential life-saving gas. He also announced ₹5,000 per month pension to children who lost their parents to the disease.Also read| Black fungus: Govt allocates 23,680 additional vials of Amphotericin-B to states"We are setting up new oxygen plants in the state at a rapid pace, so that there is no shortage of oxygen. At the same time, we urge you all to plant trees, so that the balance of nature is maintained and natural oxygen is available to all of us," Chouhan said.Madhya Pradesh on Friday found 4,384 people infected with the virus in the last 24 hours, while 79 lost their lives to the disease. The state's tally on Friday reached 7,57,119 and the death toll stood at 7,394, according to the state health department, reported PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-s-positivity-rate-dips-below-5-govt-to-ease-covid-curfew-from-june-1-101621667192960.html
22-05-2021||India||Black fungus outbreak: Centre allocates 23,680 additional vials of Amphotericin- B to states, UTs||Union minister of chemicals and fertilizers DV Sadananda Gowda announced an allocation of 23,680 additional vials of Amphotericin- B, a key drug to treat raging Mucormycosis or 'black fungus', to various states and Union territories on Saturday.The allocation has been made based on the total number of patients, the minister informed in the official release.After a detailed review of rising no. of cases of #Mucormycosis in various states, a total of 23680 additional vials of #Amphotericin- B have been allocated to all States/UTs today.The Allocation has been made based on total no. of patients which is approx. 8848 across country. pic.twitter.com/JPsdEHuz0WMucormycosis is a rare fungal disease commonly being detected in the Covid-19 patients who are in the recovery phase. People get Mucormycosis, of which there are several types, by breathing in the fungal spores. They can be spread in hospitals and homes by air humidifiers or oxygen tanks containing dirty water.The infection needs to be caught early as it is aggressive and has a high fatality rate. It directly attacks the immune system of the patients and people with Covid-19 and along with comorbidity are in the most vulnerable category.Doctors are suspecting that the sudden surge in Mucormycosis may be linked to the rapid use of steroids to treat Covid-19 patients.The distribution of additional vials comes as several states are reeling under the fatal Mucormycosis epidemic. With infection spreading rapidly in the country, it has led to the shortage of key medicines to treat the fungal infection. On Friday the health ministry said that it was looking for more companies to produce the antifungal drug amphotericin B used to treat it and also increase imports of the medication.India has confirmed 8,848 confirmed cases of Mucormycosis, with Gujarat being the epicentre of the disease. As per the figures mentioned in the release, Gujarat has the highest number of cases with 2,281 infected people. It is followed by Maharashtra with 2000 cases of black fungus.Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Telangana have 910, 720, 700, 350 cases respectively, the ministry states in the release.In the national capital, 197 people have been infected with black fungus.On Friday, All India Institute of Medical Science (Aiims) director Randeep Guleria listed three factors important in the prevention of the Mucormycosis outbreak."Three factors are very important: First, good control of blood sugar levels; second, those on steroids must monitor blood sugar levels regularly; and, third, be careful about when to give steroids and their dosage," news agency ANI quoted Guleria saying as the Covid-linked infection claimed more than 7,000 lives in the country so far.Guleria also acknowledged that steroid use has become much more prevalent during the ongoing second wave of Covid-19. "Those given high doses of steroids when not indicated can lead to high blood sugar levels and a high chance of Mucormycosis," he said. Guleria called for judicious use of steroids.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/black-fungus-outbreak-centre-allocates-23-680-additional-vials-of-amphotericin-b-to-states-uts-101621668814439.html
22-05-2021||India||Congress' VD Satheesan elected as new leader of opposition in Kerala||Senior Congress leader VD Satheesan was elected as the leader of opposition Kerala on Saturday. The 56-year-old Satheersan is a member of the legislative assembly from Paravur. He will replace Ramesh Chennithala.The five-time legislator wields enough influence among young cadres of the party and his appointment as the leader comes as Congress is focussing more on brandishing youth power along with the party veterans.Satheesan was also part of the Kerala Students Union.The ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist)-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) broke the four-decade-old jinx after the recently held assembly election as it bagged 99 seats out of 140. The Congress-led United Democratic Front won 41, while the Bharatiya Janata Party failed to open its account.On Thursday, Pinarayi Vijayan took oath as the chief minister of Kerala for the second consecutive term. He is heading a 20-member cabinet that includes K Rajan, P Prasad, J Chinchurani and GR Anil. ChittayamCPI also nominated new faces as ministers, going by the party's rule of not fielding any ministers for two consecutive terms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-vd-satheesan-elected-as-new-leader-of-opposition-in-kerala-101621668544899.html
22-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Biden admin backs dating sites to boost US Covid-19 vaccination drive and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Biden admin backs dating sites to boost plateauing vaccination campaign in USA Covid-19 vaccine can save your life and get you a date. The Biden White House on Friday threw its support behind - somewhat awkwardly - vaccination features introduced on dating apps such as Tinder, Match and Hinge. Read moreModi government cannot say it didn't anticipate consequences, it has been forewarned: Chidambaram on vaccine crisisVeteran Congress leader and former Union finance minister P Chidambaram on Saturday criticised the Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre and said that it cannot say now that it didn't anticipate the consequence of the vaccine shortage because the government had been "duly forewarned". Read moreGujarat reports first case of black fungus in 15-year-old childThe rapidly spreading Mucormycosis, commonly known as black fungus, is now affecting children as well. In Gujarat, the epicentre of the rare fungal disease that affects Covid-19 patients, a 15-year-old was found to be infected with Mucormycosis. Read more'Shah Rukh Khan spoke to all the players individually': Chakravarthy remembers Covid-19 ordeal during IPL 2021Varun Chakravarthy was one of the first players to test positive for Covid-19 in the Indian Premier League 2021. Chakravarthy went for scans on his shoulder after Kolkata Knight Riders’ match against CSK and it is reported that he tested positive for the virus after that. Read moreRadhe's 4.2 million streams don't equal ₹100 crore; Salman Khan film's revenue has been overestimatedSalman Khan had asserted that the box office collections of his new film, Radhe: Your Most Wanted Bhai, would be 'zero' in India. But how much money did the film actually end up generating? Watch hereMommy-to-be Dia Mirza believes meditation is a superpower that is life-alteringMeditation and Yoga have become a part of many peoples lives. Celebrities like Milind Soman and Shilpa Shetty often share posts about mental health and meditation and talk about their importance, especially now. Read moreThis wholesome clip of woman’s parents reading her acceptance letter to college may make you smileA heartening clip of a woman surprising her parents with her acceptance letter to optometry school has now gone viral on Twitter and melting the hearts of netizens. Read moreHow Covid second wave impacted India’s economy & the way forwardThe second wave of the Covid pandemic in India has been a major setback to an economy that was struggling to find its feet after the shock of the extended Covid induced lockdown in 2020. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-biden-admin-backs-dating-sites-to-boost-us-covid-19-vaccination-drive-and-all-the-latest-news-101621667164566.html
22-05-2021||India||Govt asks social media platforms to remove content mentioning 'Indian variant' of Covid-19||The government has asked social media companies to immediately remove any content on their platform which mentions or refers to the term 'Indian variant' of coronavirus, in a bid to curb spread of misinformation around Covid-19.Digital platforms said they have received the latest advisory.On Friday, the IT ministry wrote to all social media platforms emphasising that the World Health Organisation (WHO) has not associated the term "Indian Variant" with the B.1.617 variant of the coronavirus in any of its reports.A notice issued in this regard by the IT ministry states that a "false statement" is being circulated online that implies that an 'Indian variant' of coronavirus is spreading across the countries.The IT ministry said the matter has already been clarified by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on May 12, 2021 through a press statement.The social media platforms have been asked to "remove all the content that names, refers to, or implies 'Indian variant' of corona virus from your platform immediately".Previously, the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology had issued advisories regarding curbing of false news/misinformation concerning coronavirus on social media platforms.India is one of the biggest markets for digital platforms like Google, Facebook, and Twitter.As per data cited by the government, recently, the country has 53 crore WhatsApp users, 44.8 crore YouTube users, 41 crore Facebook users, while 21 crore use Instagram and 1.75 crore are on Twitter.Earlier this year, the government had introduced guidelines to curb the misuse of social media platforms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-asks-social-media-platforms-to-remove-content-mentioning-indian-variant-of-covid19-101621665515658.html
22-05-2021||India||Gujarat reports first case of black fungus in 15-year-old child||The rapidly spreading Mucormycosis, commonly known as black fungus, is now affecting children as well. In Gujarat, the epicentre of the rare fungal disease that affects Covid-19 patients, a 15-year-old was found to be infected with Mucormycosis. "This is the first case of paediatric Mucormycosis in Ahmedabad," paediatric doctor Abhishek Bansal said on Saturday, as reported by the news agency ANI.The boy was discharged from the hospital earlier after successfully recovering from the Covid-19 disease in April. Later, he was diagnosed with Mucormycosis, the doctor said. He is currently stable and will be discharged after two to three days, news agency ANI reported quoting the doctor.The local media reported that the boy complained of symptoms after a week of recovering from the viral infection and was undergoing treatment at Apple Children’s Hospital.Amid the Covid-19 outbreak in the country, cases of Mucormycosis have emerged in patients who were in the recovery phase of the disease. The fungal infection is more life-threatening and attacks those with weak immune systems or who have comorbidity like diabetes. The disease can result in breathing problems and coughing blood. Other symptoms include blackening or discolouration over the nose, blurred or double vision and chest pain.Also Read | Black fungus: Here is a list of states with highest number of mucormycosis casesDoctors are suspecting that the sudden surge in Mucormycosis may be linked to the rapid use of steroids to treat Covid-19 patients.On Friday, the health officials of Gujarat said that more than 1,100 Mucormycosis patients who had recovered from Covid-19 are undergoing treatment at government hospitals in four major cities of Gujarat.The highest number of 450 patients are admitted to the Rajkot civil hospital, 350 to the main civil hospital of Ahmedabad, around 110 in two state-run hospitals in Surat city and around 225 patients are receiving treatment in government hospitals in Vadodara city including 148 at SSG hospital, PTI reported quoting local administration.All India Institute of Medical Science (Aiims) director Randeep Guleria on Friday listed three factors important in the prevention of Mucormycosis outbreak."Three factors are very important: First, good control of blood sugar levels; second, those on steroids must monitor blood sugar levels regularly; and, third, be careful about when to give steroids and their dosage," news agency ANI quoted Guleria saying as the Covid-linked infection claimed more than 7,000 lives in the country so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-reports-first-case-of-black-fungus-in-15-year-old-child-101621663059384.html
22-05-2021||India||Modi government cannot say it didn't anticipate consequences, it has been forewarned: Chidambaram on vaccine crisis||Veteran Congress leader and former Union finance minister P Chidambaram on Saturday criticised the Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre and said that it cannot say now that it didn't anticipate the consequence of the vaccine shortage because the government had been "duly forewarned".The Modi government cannot say “we did not anticipate these consequences’. The government has been duly forewarned.In a series of tweets, Chidamabaram also said, "The final warning to the government is that if vaccinations are not accelerated, it will not be possible to prevent a third wave."Stressing that the government needs to provide data on capacity of domestic producers, orders placed for vaccines, import contracts concluded and the agreed schedule of delivery such vaccines etc, the Union minister alleged on the micoblogging site that that the Centre has not disclosed such information yet.WATCH: Chidambaram slams Centre over Covid vaccine; warns scientists of govt’s trap"The claim of the Union Health Minister of getting 216 crore vaccine doses by December 31 to vaccinate the entire adult population by that date must be backed by hard data. So far, it is not," Chidambaram wrote on Twitter.On Wednesday, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said India will have procured 267 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses by the end of the year, and will be in a position to inoculate at least all of its adult population. "Between August to December 2021, India will have procured 216 crore vaccine doses while, by July this year, 51 crore doses will be procured," the Union minister said during his interaction with the health ministers and principal secretaries of West Bengal and eight northeast states.ALSO READ: 'Such a travesty': Harsh Vardhan to Chidambaram's doubt over India's Covid dataChidambaram further said both International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Health Organization have cautioned India about the consequences of the slow pace of vaccination.Both IMF and WHO have cautioned India about the consequences of the slow pace of vaccination.The IMF observed that the situation in India is a warning of the possible events in low and middle-income nations that have seemingly escaped the pandemic till now. A report co-authored by IMF economist Ruchir Agarwal and its chief economist Gita Gopinath on Friday also said that under the business-as-usual scenario, the vaccine coverage in India is expected to remain under 35% of the population by the end of 2021.India has administered more than 193 million vaccines across the country till Friday, since the nationwide inoculation drive began drive on January 16. However, it hit a roadblock to maintain its pace in the past couple of months owing to shortages of vaccines. Beneficiaries across the country faced difficulty in finding slots on the CoWin app, the official portal created by the Centre to book vaccination slots at both government-run and private hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-can-t-say-it-didn-t-anticipate-consequences-it-has-been-forewarned-chidambaram-on-vaccine-crisis-101621660267059.html
22-05-2021||India||Covid crisis in India a warning of possible events in other low- and middle-income countries: IMF||Observing that the ongoing "catastrophic" second wave of Covid-19 in India is a sign that the worst may be yet to come, the IMF has said that the situation in the country is a warning of the possible events in low- and middle-income nations that have seemingly escaped the pandemic till now. A report co-authored by International Monetary Fund (IMF) economist Ruchir Agarwal and its Chief Economist Gita Gopinath on Friday also said that under the business-as-usual scenario, the vaccine coverage in India is expected to remain under 35 per cent of the population by the end of 2021.“The ongoing catastrophic second wave in India, following a terrible wave in Brazil, is a sign the worst may be yet to come in the developing world,” it said.While India’s health system held up fairly well in the first wave, this time its health system is so overwhelmed that many people are dying because of a lack of medical supplies like oxygen, hospital beds, and medical care, the report said."India is a warning of possible events in other low- and middle-income countries (LMICs) that so far have seemingly escaped the pandemic, including in Africa,” it said.For India, the report said, current bilateral purchases of vaccine plus coverage from COVAX will cover about 25 per cent of its population by the first half of 2022.To get to 60 per cent coverage, India will need to immediately place sufficient vaccine orders of about 1 billion doses through contracts that incentivise investment in additional capacity and augmentation of the supply chain.“In this context, the authorities’ recently announced financing of about USD 600 million to the Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech to boost production capacity in the near term is a welcome step,” the report said, adding that authorities estimate that two billion doses will be available by the end of 2021.Efforts should be made to ensure that the projected production capacity will materialise without delay, including through securing the supply chain for raw materials—supported by international efforts to eliminate export restrictions on all critical inputs, it added.In its report, the IMF said that an urgent focus should be to eliminate constraints on cross-border exports of critical raw materials and finished vaccines. Free cross-border flow of vaccine inputs and supplies is essential for the world to achieve its vaccination targets without delay.Governments are taking steps to relax such constraints on raw materials, it said, citing the recent pledge by the US to facilitate greater access of critical raw material to Indian manufacturers after severe shortages emerged.However, there is scope for greater multilateral action on this front, as significant constraints still remain, it said.The IMF report said India continues to face production bottlenecks, including due to ongoing shortages of critical raw materials, suggesting the need for further relaxation of de facto export restrictions under the US Defence Production Act.Despite such near-term constraints, as of mid-May 2021, the authorities estimate that over two billion doses will be available by the end of the year based on company-level supply projections publicly shared by officials.“Therefore, while current pre-purchases of vaccines plus coverage from the COVAX AMC remains around 25 per cent, the authorities intend to meet the residual needs through the additional production,” it said.To reach a coverage of 60 per cent of the population, India will need to order roughly one billion doses of additional vaccines."Given the authorities are expected to comfortably use domestic resources for meeting these residual needs and are not seeking external financing for these purposes, we do not allocate additional funds for India in our budgeting exercise," the IMF said.Indian authorities are currently pursuing a strategy of procuring vaccines for those above 45 years of age by the central government while enabling states to procure vaccines for those aged 18-44.Given the current vaccine pricing offered by domestic suppliers, and the estimated size of the younger population in India, the additional funding needs for the centre for covering the 18-44 population is approximately 0.25 per cent of the GDP, suggesting that there is scope for the government to handle the entire procurement centrally, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-crisis-in-india-a-warning-of-possible-events-in-other-low-and-middle-income-countries-imf-101621659535648.html
22-05-2021||India||UP govt announces reward for making villages, wards Covid-free with new campaign||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Aditynath on Friday announced a special campaign to make villages virus free of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) now wreaking havoc in the rural areas of the country.The special campaign, 'Mera Gaon-Corona Mukt Gaon' (My village-Corona free village), was announced on Friday by the chief minister while he was in Lakhimpur district to review containment measures.It aims to draw local participation to bring down the Covid-19 tally in the country's most-populous state and will be run with special focus on the rural areas. In urban areas, a similar drive will be conducted at the ward level.Emphasis will be placed on strict screening, treatment and vaccination and the state government will reward the three best-performing villages and wards for developmental work through various means. They will also receive additional funds for such work.Speaking after his visit to the district, Yogi Adityanath noted that the large-scale testing in the state is leading to good results. He also appreciated the containment strategy and said it should be made into a "mission."“It was being said that after April 24, one lakh cases will come in the state every day. At present, there are only about 7,000 active cases in the entire state,” the chief minister said, adding that “Uttar Pradesh has successfully fought against Corona,” according to HT's sister site, LiveHindustan.com.The chief minister stressed on saving both life and livelihood.During the second wave of Covid-19, Uttar Pradesh was among the worst-hit states of the country. On Friday, the state government said the number of active cases in the state has come down by 68% since the peak. While the recovery rate has improved to 92.5%.During the peak on April 30, there were 3,10,783 active Covid-19 cases in the state which have now come down to 1,06,276.On Friday, the state added 7,735 fresh Covid-19 cases which took the total case tally to 16,59,212 while the number of total fatalities stood at 18,760.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-govt-announces-reward-for-making-villages-wards-covid-free-with-new-campaign-101621657059808.html
22-05-2021||India||QR code on RT-PCR reports must for passengers flying out of India from today||Passengers travelling abroad will need to carry a negative RT-PCR test report with a QR code from Saturday, the Union ministry of civil aviation said in a set of guidelines issued last week to ensure minimum physical contact. "The airline operators are advised to accept only those passengers who are carrying a negative RT-PCR test report with QR code for boarding international flights departing from India after 0001 hours on 22nd May 2021," the ministry said in a release.Airlines operating in international sectors were advised to make the necessary arrangements. The rule applied to those passengers who are required to carry a negative RT-PCR test report as per the guidelines issued by their destination countries, the release added.Many laboratories have now started providing QR codes on RT-PCR test reports after cases of people editing the reports to show a negative result to meet the regulatory requirements have been reported.Covid-19 manager at Pune's Krsnaa Diagnostics, Shravan Mutha, said that his lab had taken up the practice to counter fake-negative reports. "The QR code takes you to our portal, where the patient can get the details," he said.As the second wave of the pandemic continues to rage in the country, the ban on international commercial passenger flights remains in place till May 31. Several countries, including the United States, Australia, Canada, the UAE and Britain, have also banned flights from India to curb the spread of the highly contagious Covid-19 strain that was first found in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/qr-code-on-rt-pcr-reports-must-for-passengers-flying-out-of-india-from-today-101621649845256.html
22-05-2021||India||India's daily Covid-19 deaths remain above 4,000 for the second day; tally crosses 26.28 million||India continued to maintain a downward trajectory on Saturday as its confirmed coronavirus (Covid-19) cases and deaths remained below record levels in the last 24 hours. According to the daily health bulletin by the Union ministry of health and family welfare, 2,57,299 people were found to be positive of the viral disease taking India's Covid-19 caseload to 2,62,89,290.As many as 4,194 people lost their lives in the previous 24 hours as the cumulative death toll touched 2,95,525.On May 19, the country recorded its highest jump in the daily fatalities as 4,529 people succumbed to the viral disease. Experts have suggested that the trend may continue to rise for another week at least before it begins to settle down in proportion to the number of daily cases.Click here for complete Covid-19 coveragePublic health expert Dr VK Monga attributed the fatalities to prolonged hospitalisation and Covid-19 complications, the news agency ANI reported. “A large number of patients are still admitted in ICU in various hospitals... and because of the complications of Covid-19 and prolonged stay in hospitals, they may lose the battle, thus resulting in increased figures of death," Monga said in the report.Meanwhile, 23,070,365 people have recovered from the Covid-19 as of Saturday morning, the health ministry's dashboard showed.As of May 21, the country has tested a total of 32,64,84,155 samples for Covid-19, of these, 20,66,285 samples were tested over the last 24-hours, the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) said in a statement.India is reeling under the catastrophic second wave of Covid-19, however, over the last two weeks, the numbers have come down from more than 400,000 infections in a day at a time of the peak. The unprecedented rise in the cases had led to swamped hospitals in major cities of the country including the national capital.With improvement in daily infections, authorities are now working to alleviate the shortage of a medicine used to treat a rare fungal disease, prevailing in Covid-19 patients who are at the recovery phase.Mucormycosis, or black fungus as it is commonly known, is a life-threatening fungal infection that attacks those with weak immune systems. Its symptoms include blackening or discolouration over the nose, blurred or double vision and chest pain.With cases rising to worrying levels, the health ministry on Friday said it was looking for more companies to produce the antifungal drug Amphotericin B used to treat it and also increase imports of the medicine.According to the health ministry's statement on Friday, ten states, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Odisha, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Assam, accounted for 76.66% of new cases registered in a day.On Friday, Tamil Nadu reported the highest daily new cases at 35,579. It was followed by Kerala with 30,491 confirmed cases.On the vaccination front, the country has administered 193-million shots so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-covid-19-tally-rises-by-257-299-cases-death-toll-reaches-295525-101621655742588.html
22-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Farm unions write to PM Modi, seek resumption of dialogue||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Farm unions write to PM Modi, seek resumption of dialogueAlmost four months after talks between the government and protesting farm groups broke down, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a platform of farmer unions wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday, asking the Union government to resume dialogue to end the agitation, but remained steadfast on their demand to scrap the legislation. Read more.Over 800k migrants left Delhi after lockdown announced: GovtAt least 800,000 migrant workers travelled from Delhi to their home states in the first four weeks of lockdown in the Capital, nearly half of them in the first week, a report by the Delhi government said, highlighting that buses and other arrangements were made for labourers to avoid a repeat of last year’s crisis. Read more.WHO: Covid deaths 2 to 3 times higherThe official death toll from the Covid-19 pandemic is likely to be a “significant undercount”, the World Health Organization (WHO) said on Friday, estimating that the true figure of direct and indirect deaths could be “two to three times higher”. Read more.'It's an amazing, interesting idea': Inzamam-Ul-Haq weighs in on Rahul Dravid possibly coaching India for Sri Lanka tourFormer Pakistan captain Inzamam-Ul-Haq is excited at the prospect of seeing Rahul Dravid take charge of the team when India travels to Sri Lanka to play an ODI and T20I series in July. Read more.Watch: Mira Rajput tries Callisthenics during inspiring outdoor fitness sessionGet ready to take your weekend workout motivation from Mira Rajput. The star is known for her fitness routines and her clean eating habits. She often shares glimpses from her workouts and snips of her meals to motivate followers to stay active. Watch here.Arjun Kapoor on respecting Malaika Arora's past, dating someone 'older with son from earlier marriage'Actor Arjun Kapoor has said that his past has impacted the way in which he handles his relationship with Malaika Arora. The couple went public with their relationship in 2019. Read more.Watch: Drones used for sanitising public places in Kerala’s ThrissurThrissur’s municipal corporation used drones for sanitisation. Municipal corporation to use drones in markets, bus stands etc. Drones were seen sanitising a bus stand in Thrissur, Kerala. Kerala on Friday reported 29,673 covid cases and 142 deaths. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-farm-unions-write-to-pm-modi-seek-resumption-of-dialogue-101621653683864.html
22-05-2021||India||India cumulatively administers 193 million Covid-19 vaccine shots||The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccines doses administered in the country crossed the 193-million mark on Friday, according to the provisional report by the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW).The report mentioned that 6,63,353 beneficiaries in the age group of 18-44 years received their first dose of the jab on Friday (May 21), while the country has logged cumulative inoculation of 92,73,550 people across 37 states and Union territories since the start of the third phase of the vaccination drive. This includes 1,183,124 from Rajasthan, 1,060,702 from Bihar, 885,881 from Delhi, 682,744 from Maharashtra, 960,032 from Uttar Pradesh, 671,800 from Haryana and 602,691 from Gujarat.More than 1.38 million doses of the coronavirus vaccine were given to the beneficiaries till 8pm on Friday, data released by the government showed.The third phase of the inoculation drive began on May 1, when the government also allowed all above 18-years to get the jab.As of Friday evening, a total of 193,297,222 doses have been administered, out of which 97,37,237 healthcare workers have received their first dose while 66,89,893 healthcare workers have been immunised completely.The cumulative number also includes 1,48,63,770 frontline workers with the first dose of the vaccine and 83,05,152 who have received both doses."The vaccination exercise as a tool to protect the most vulnerable population groups in the country from Covid-19 continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level," the ministry said in the report.India rolled out the nationwide vaccination drive on January 16. However, it hit a roadblock to maintain its pace in the past couple of months owing to shortages of vaccines. Beneficiaries across the country faced difficulty in finding slots on the CoWin app, the official portal created by the Centre to book vaccination slots at both government-run and private hospitals.According to a report by ANI, India will get vaccines from five additional manufacturers by the end of the third quarter of this year. These vaccines are the Sputnik V vaccine (in collaboration with Dr Reddy's), Johnson & Johnson vaccine (in collaboration with Biological E), Novavax vaccine (in collaboration with Serum India), Zydus Cadila's vaccine, and Bharat Biotech's Intranasal Vaccine.India is currently using Covishield, developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca and manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, and Bharat Biotech's indigenously manufactured Covaxin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-cumulatively-administers-193-million-covid-19-vaccine-shots-101621651610179.html
22-05-2021||India||Air India data breach: All you need to know||A cyber-attack on the servers of national carrier Air India resulted in a massive data breach on Friday and affected around 4.5 million customers of the airline. Details, including passport and credit card information of these passengers, were compromised in the attack, Air India said in a statement.“As part of our commitment, we would like to inform you that SITA PSS, our data processor of the passenger service system, recently notified Air India of a data security breach involving personal data of certain passengers, including yours,” the airlines said in a communication to the passengers whose data got stolen.Here is all you need to know about the Air India data breach:- The cyber-attack that left millions of passengers from across the world jeopardised involved personal data registered between August 26, 2011, and February 20, 2021, Air India said in a statement.- “We hereby address to you a personal communication of this data security incident. The breach involved some personal data registered between 26th August 2011 and 20th February 2021 with details that included name, date of birth, contact information, passport information, ticket information, frequent flyer data and also credit cards data,” it said.- In March, Air India said its data processor SITA PSS had flagged a cyber-attack it was subjected to in the last week of February and said it led to the leak of personal data of some of the national carrier’s passengers.- Air India, which assured its passengers that there was no evidence of any “misuse” of the data, said it is in touch with regulatory agencies in India and abroad over the attack.- The airlines also encouraged passengers to change their passwords after the breach, to ensure the safety of their confidential data.- After the incident, the airline said it secured the compromised servers, engaged external specialists of data security incidents, notified and is in talks with the credit card issuers and reset the passwords of Air India frequent flyer programmes.“For more information, you can contact on email id aidata.helpdesk@airindia.in, or call on 01242641415 or visit the website www.airindia.in,” Air India said in its communique to the affected passengers.Currently, other than special flights under the “Vande Bharat” mission, Air India is only operating domestic flights as international travel remains suspended owing to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-data-breach-all-you-need-to-know-101621647788771.html
22-05-2021||India||Air India says 10 years of passenger data breached||India’s national airline Air India on Friday reported a data breach that it said involved the personal data, including contact details, credit card numbers and passport information, of an unspecified number of customers.The national carrier said the compromise involved personal data registered between August 26, 2011 and February 20, 2021 and that the data was breached during a hack on its data processor, SITA, which disclosed a cyberattack in March.SITA offers back-end network services to a number of airlines and several of them sent similar notifications to their customers earlier this month. The affected airlines included Lufthansa, Finnair, British Airways, Singapore Airlines, American Airlines and United, and involved close to 4.5 million records.Air India said the data of its customers involved those that were registered over a span of nearly 10 years. “The breach involved personal data registered between 26 August 2011 and 3 February 2021, with details that included name, date of birth, contact information, passport information, ticket information, Star Alliance and Air India frequent flyer data (but no passwords data were affected) as well as credit cards data,” a notification from Air India said.The airline added: “While we had received the first notification in this regard from our data processor on 25.02.2021, we would like to clarify that the identity of the affected data subjects was only provided to us by our data processor on 25.03.2021 and 5.04.2021”.“SITA confirms that it was the victim of a cyber-attack, leading to a data security incident involving certain passenger data that was stored on SITA Passenger Service System (US) Inc servers,” SITA said in a statement on March 4, as per media reports.Cybersecurity experts said they were yet to see specifically Air India data being sold on dark web forums, but added that since the hack did not include passwords, the data may instead be sold as a tranche of credit and debit card data. “The credit card data may show up as individual tranches of card information based on limits etc,” said Yash Kadakia, founder and CTO of Security Brigade.Experts have separately said that sensitive person information like contact and passport data could potentially lead to impersonation attacks and allow perpetrators to break into people’s bank accounts by using such data for verification.“Our data processor has been subjected to a cybersecurity attack leading to personal data leak of passengers. This affected around 4,500,000 data subjects in the world,” Air India said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-says-10-years-of-passenger-data-breached-101621646500624.html
22-05-2021||India||India drenched in Tauktae aftermath||Cyclone Tauktae, which made landfall in Gujarat late on Monday evening, has been called the most powerful Arabian Sea cyclone in over two decades. It caused rainfall not seen this time of the year not just along the western coast, but also inland. Here’s how unprecedented the rainfall was in different parts of India.25 states and UTs saw above normal rainfallThe IMD classifies a 20% or more departure from the long period average – the average rainfall from 1961 to 2010 – as rainfall as ‘abnormal’. If the departure is 20% to 59%, it is said to be ‘excess’, and it is 60% or more, the rainfall is said to be in ‘large excess’. For the May 16 to May 21 period (the data is collated for the 24-hour period ending at 8.30am), 25 states recorded ‘above normal’ rainfall. While five states saw just excess rainfall or a departure of just 20% to 59%, 20 states and union territories (UTs) witnessed ‘large excess’. However, even this large excess rainfall was of varying degrees in different areas. In Gujarat, where the cyclone made landfall, the rainfall for this period has been 3,620% above normal, for instance. Landlocked states like Delhi and Madhya Pradesh, where rainfall is not common this time of the year, recorded rainfall 2,000% above normal.Highest ever rainfall in 8 states and UTsPossibly due to different reasons – either a large excess rainfall because of proximity to the cyclone or due to historical absence of rainfall in this period – the recent rain spell broke all-time records in several regions. In eight states and UTs – Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Uttarakhand, Goa and Dadra & Nagar Haveli – the rainfall was the highest ever since 1901, the earliest year for which data is available from IMD. In Gujarat, the 48mm rain in this period was the second highest since 1933. To be sure, the 48mm rainfall in Gujarat is the average for the entire state. Coastal areas are likely to have seen much higher rainfall than inland areas.In Delhi, 3rd wettest non-monsoon day of all timeDelhi saw incessant rain on Wednesday and Thursday – for the 24-hour period from 8.30am on May 19 to 8.30am on May 20, 80.21 mm rainfall took place in the city-state. Looking at all-time records (in the 9,893 days since January 1, 1901), this is the 55th highest single-day rainfall ever recorded in the city. Most of the 54 days that have seen higher rainfall than the current spell always fell during the monsoon period (June to September), when such rain is expected. Outside of monsoon months, only two days have seen a higher rainfall in the city – on October 9, 1956 and October 2, 2010.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-drenched-in-tauktae-aftermath-101621646784323.html
22-05-2021||India||Gandhian tree hugger sparked andolans, and took conservation to the world||In early 1974, the state government announced the auctioning of 2,500 trees overlooking the Alaknanda river in the upper reaches of what is now Uttarakhand. Lumberjacks arrived in Raini village to cut the trees. A local girl saw them and informed the villagers. Women in large groups came out and stopped the lumbermen by hugging the trees. Three local women, Gaura Devi, Sudesha Devi, and Bachni Devi, championed the cause. Through the days that followed, the women refused to leave the trees. That marked the beginning of the Chipko (to hug) movement.The movement was actually the brainchild of a Gandhian activist, Vimla Bahuguna.On Friday, her husband and fellow Gandhian, Sunderlal Bahuguna -- they married with the clear understanding that they would live in the village in an ashram -- who took the Chipko movement to the world and lived a life of austerity, died in Rishikesh on Friday from Covid-19. He was 94.Bahuguna transformed the spontaneous Chipko movement into a turning point in India’s forest conservation efforts by taking it to different parts of Uttarakhand forcing then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi to impose a 15-year ban on tree-cutting in the state. He was admitted to the Rishikesh-based All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) on May 8 after testing positive for Covid-19.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Uttarakhand chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat, and several environmental activists expressed condolences. “He manifested our centuries-old ethos of living in harmony with nature. His simplicity and spirit of compassion will never be forgotten,” Modi said.Bahuguna was born in Tehri in 1927; by his teens, he was a social activist. Then, inspired by Mohandas Gandhi, he was a nationalist and freedom fighter. He was a tireless protector of the hills, walking thousands of kilometres through them.But it was the Chipko movement that brought him to national attention.Historian and author, Ramchandra Guha and ecologist Madhav Gadgil write in “The Use And Abuse of Nature” that “Chipko was sparked by the government’s decision to allot a plot of hornbeam forest in the Alaknanda valley to Symonds, a sports goods company from faraway Allahabad. A few months before this, the Gandhian organisation in the forefront of the cooperative movement, the Dashauli Gram Swarajya Sangha, had been refused permission by the forest department to fell trees from the very same forest. The transparent favouritism provoked the villagers led by DGSS, to threaten to hug the trees and prevent them from being felled by Symond’s agents.”But the root cause of the movement was the reckless cutting of trees in the 1970s in the upper reaches of now Uttarakhand by timber merchants. From Raini village, the movement spread to several other villages as women hugged trees to protect them. Bahuguna gave a national voice to the movement and wrote a letter to then PM Indira Gandhi.Bahuguna with other activists such as Shekhar Pathak and Chandi Prasad Bhatt started a statewide campaign to protect the forests and people’s livelihood. “He was able to give direction and words to people’s sentiments in the hills. He understood their pain. Nobody could match his dedication to the Himalayas,” Pathak said.Rajendra Singh, water conservationist and founder of Tarun Bharat Sangh, said Bahuguna took the Chipko movement, started by Gaura Devi and other women from Raini village, into the global spotlight. Guha summed the movement by quoting a peasant of Badyagarh on the Chipko movement: “We got only a little food from our fields; when we could not get wood to cook even this paltry amount, we had to resort to a movement.”Bahuguna also opposed the construction of the Tehri Dam by fasting for 75 days and was able to convince the authorities to reduce the dam height, thereby saving hundreds of trees. He broke his fast at the insistence of then PM HD Deve Gowda.Remembering Bahuguna, Ravi Chopra, director, People’s Science Institute, said: “At this time when all environmental regulation and caution has been abandoned by those in power, Bahuguna ji’s voice was a great encouragement to those struggling on behalf of the environment. His passing is a step back for environmental struggles.”Bahuguna’s tireless dedication and perseverance paved the way for those who came after -- and inspired by him, many did.“My life’s vision was shaped by Bahuguna ji. I have been working with him since the 1960s. In 1974, I joined him on the Asakot Arakot padyatra. He has taught many of us the way of life. How can I sum him up in a few words? In a way he instilled the willpower to fight in all of us who worked with him -- the fight to protect our forests.,” said Vijay Jhardhari (69), Chipko movement member and founder of Beej Bachao Andolan.“The environmentalism we talk of today, Bahuguna ji represented and upheld that a generation ahead,” said Medha Patkar, rights activist and founding member of Narmada Bachao Andolan."The Chipko movement has inspired generations of environmentalism in India both in its celebration and critique. Understanding Chipko is not just about love for trees. It is about recognising that nature is a contested space between society, ecology and the economy. It tells us that state power is accountable to the public and citizens need to put their weight behind environmental justice,” said Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher, Centre for Policy Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gandhian-tree-hugger-sparked-andolans-and-took-conservation-to-the-world-101621645391242.html
22-05-2021||India||Army chief reviews situation along northern border in Arunachal Pradesh||Army Chief Gen MM Naravane reviewed India's operational readiness along the border with China in the Arunachal Pradesh sector during a two-day visit to the Northeastern region that began on Thursday.His visit to the region came amid the Indian Army's continued standoff with the Chinese military in some of the friction points in eastern Ladakh.Officials said Gen Naravane arrived at Dimapur in Nagaland on Thursday to review the operational readiness along the Northern borders of Arunachal Pradesh and the security situation in the hinterland in the Northeastern region."On arrival at the Corps headquarters in Dimapur, the Army Chief was briefed by Lt Gen Johnson Mathew, General Officer Commanding of Spear Corps and the Division Commanders on the prevailing situation and operational preparedness along the Northern borders," the Army said.It said the Chief of Army Staff complimented all ranks for maintaining excellent vigil and exhorted them to stay alert and keep watch on activities along the Line of Actual Control (LAC).On Wednesday, Gen Naravane said that the Army will maintain an enhanced presence on the entire northern front from Ladakh to Arunachal Pradesh till "de-escalation" is achieved.In view of the border row with China in eastern Ladakh, the Army last year significantly ramped up deployment of troops in all sensitive areas along the nearly 3,500-km-long LAC including in the Sikkim and Arunachal sectorsThe Indian Air Force(IAF) also deployed additional fighter jets and attack helicopters in key bases looking after the airspace along the LAC in the Arunachal sector.India and China were locked in a military standoff at multiple friction points in eastern Ladakh since early May last year but they have completed the withdrawal of troops and weapons from the North and South banks of Pangong lake in February following a series of military and diplomatic talks.The two sides are now engaged in talks to extend the disengagement process to the remaining friction points.There was no visible forward movement in disengagement of troops in the remaining friction points as the Chinese side did not show flexibility in their approach on it at the 11th round of military talks with the Indian Army on April 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-chief-reviews-situation-along-northern-border-in-arunachal-pradesh-101621644661675.html
22-05-2021||India||INS Rajput decommissioned after 41 years of service||The Indian Navy's Kashin-class destroyer INS Rajput, the first warship to be fitted with long-range BrahMos missile, was decommissioned on Friday after 41 years of service.The destroyer, built by the erstwhile USSR and commissioned on May 4, 1980, had the distinction of being part of both the Western and Eastern fleets.Indian Navy spokesperson Commander Vivek Madhwal said the warship was decommissioned in a low key event at the naval dockyard in Visakhapatnam."In her glorious service to the nation, the ship has been helmed by 31 commanding officers. The ship, since its commissioning, sailed a distance of over 7,87,194 nautical miles which is equivalent to navigating around the world 36.5 times and 3.8 times the distance from Earth to Moon," he said in a statement.Besides BrahMos, the warship was equipped with an array of weapons and sensors including anti-aircraft guns, torpedoes, and anti-submarine rocket launchers.The ship participated in several key missions in the last four decades, including operation Aman off Sri Lanka that was launched to assist the Indian Peace Keeping Forces (IPKF) and Operation Cactus to resolve a hostage situation off the Maldives.In addition, the ship participated in numerous bilateral and multi-national exercises. It was also the first Indian Naval Ship to be affiliated with an Army regiment -- the Rajput regiment.INS Rajput was constructed in the 61 Communards shipyard in Nikolaev (now Ukraine) under her original Russian name "Nadezhny", meaning "hope". The keel of the ship was laid on September 11, 1976, and she was launched on September 17, 1977.The ship was commissioned as INS Rajput at Poti, Georgia by I K Gujral, the then Indian Ambassador to the USSR, with Captain Gulab Mohanlal Hiranandani as her first commanding officer."The ship was decommissioned in a solemn and low key event due to the coronavirus pandemic when the national flag, naval ensign, and the decommissioning pennant were lowered at sunset time in the presence of Vice Admiral Ajendra Bahadur Singh, the flag officer commanding-in-chief eastern naval command," Commander Madhwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ins-rajput-decommissioned-after-41-years-of-service-101621644671532.html
22-05-2021||India||States raise shortage of anti-fungal medicine||Amid a surge in cases of mucormycosis (black fungus), the governments of West Bengal and Haryana on Friday alerted the Centre about the shortage of Amphotericin-B -- an anti-fungal drug used to treat the infection. So far, 11 states have declared black fungus as an epidemic under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897.The fungal infection, which some doctors have blamed on the high use of steroids to combat Covid-19, kills more than 50% of patients within days.On Friday, Haryana health minister Anil Vij sounded an alarm over the shortage of Amphotericin-B, adding that a global tender is being floated to import the medicine at the earliest. “The disease called black fungus has come to fore recently due to which there is a shortage of its medicine,” he said.Also Read| Black fungus: Here is a list of states with highest number of mucormycosis casesWest Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, too, highlighted the shortage.“The medicines are not being made available to us. The Centre procures these medicines,” she said. So far, the state has reported four cases.Under the epidemic act, all states will have to report all confirmed or suspected cases of this condition, seen in recovering Covid-19 patients, to the health ministry.During a meeting to review the pandemic situation on Friday, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan, too, expressed concern over the spread of the rare fungal infection. “Rising number of Black Fungus cases is a concern. Now we are ramping up the production of drug used for the treatment of the disease. Every state has been asked to put black fungus in the notified list.”The Centre on Thursday told the Delhi high court that as on May 19, there were 7.251 cases of mucormycosis in India.Also Read| PM Modi warns against black fungus, mourns fatalitiesAmong the states and union territories that have notified the fungal infection as an epidemic are: Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Bihar, Jharkhand, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Maharashtra, Telangana.Over the past 24 hours, first black fungus cases have been reported from Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh.Union chemicals minister Sadananda Gowda said that five more manufacturers have been given licenses to manufacture Amphotericin-B.With inputs from states and agencies||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-raise-shortage-of-anti-fungal-medicine-101621643178427.html
22-05-2021||India||China builds villages near LAC, strengthens military facilities||China has combined a policy of building villages close to the Line of Actual Control (LAC) from Xinjiang to Bhutan while simultaneously bolstering military facilities and creating dual-use infrastructure such as airports to keep up the pressure on India, people familiar with the developments have said.Details of the way in which China systematically pumped in money for almost a decade to build “villages of moderate prosperity” along the 4,000km border of Tibet, most of which aligns with the LAC, emerged in a new policy paper on Tibet Autonomous Region released by the Chinese State Council Information Office on Friday.By the end of 2020, many border villages in the remote region were better connected to highways, and all had access to mobile communication, according to the policy paper titled Tibet Since 1951: Liberation, Development and Prosperity.Indian security agencies, too, have gathered extensive information on the campaign to speed up building of border villages along the LAC, ranging from Xinjiang to Arunachal Pradesh. “Residents are moved into the villages, mostly located in disputed regions, from other areas. Some are at a short distance from strategic features on the Indian side of the LAC,” one of the people cited above said.“We have received inputs on such villages coming up on the western sector of the LAC in Xinjiang and Tibet and the eastern sector in Arunachal Pradesh. The worrying aspect is the new pressure on Bhutan in the eastern sector of its border with China, which appears to be aimed at making Bhutan give up territory in the Doklam region.”The pressure on Bhutan is being mounted apparently with an eye on the planned 25th round of boundary talks with China, dates for which are yet to be decided, the people said.Several villages have come up in the tri-junction between India, Bhutan and China, and a new village is said to have come up close to Longju, near Arunachal, which witnessed the first clash between India and China in 1959, according to India-based Tibet expert Claude Arpi.The policy paper said 118,800 km of highways were built to provide access to all administrative villages in TAR. Ninety-four percent of towns and 76% of administrative villages have direct access to asphalt and concrete roads.Sameer Patil, fellow for international security studies at Gateway House, said: “China had the first mover advantage by beefing up border infrastructure on its side some years ago. Then the Indian side began strengthening infrastructure.... The Chinese side’s thinking appears to be that they were losing the advantage and are now undertaking a host of measures to retain that.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-builds-villages-near-lac-strengthens-military-facilities-101621642919838.html
22-05-2021||India||IAF pilot killed after MiG-21 jet crashes in Punjab's Moga||An Indian Air Force (IAF) pilot was killed after his MiG-21 fighter jet crashed at Langeana in Punjab’s Moga district late on Thursday, the police and the air force said in separate statements on Friday.The jet flown by Squadron Leader Abhinav Choudhary was on a routine training sortie and was returning to Suratgarh when the mishap occurred, officials familiar with the matter said.“There was an aircraft accident last night involving a Bison aircraft of IAF in the western sector. The pilot, Sqn Ldr Abhinav Choudhary, sustained fatal injuries. IAF condoles the tragic loss and stands firmly with the bereaved family. A Court of Inquiry (COI) has been ordered to ascertain the cause of the accident involving a Bison aircraft of IAF in the western sector,” said the IAF in a tweet.Police officials said the mishap occured at around 9:30pm and it took them three hours to spot the pilot’s body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-pilot-killed-after-mig-21-jet-crashes-in-punjab-s-moga-101621640967942.html
22-05-2021||India||Farm unions write to PM Modi, seek resumption of dialogue||Almost four months after talks between the government and protesting farm groups broke down, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a platform of farmer unions wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday, asking the Union government to resume dialogue to end the agitation, but remained steadfast on their demand to scrap the legislation.Farmers have been protesting at five sites in large camps near Delhi’s borders: Singhu, Ghaziabad, Tikri, Dhansa and at Shahjahanpur on the Rajasthan-Haryana border, demanding the rollback of three laws passed in September last year to lift restrictions on trade in farm produce.The continued protests have sparked concerns of a potential spread of Covid-19 infections, but the farmers have refused to give up the agitation, citing it as a matter of livelihood.“Mr Prime Minister, this letter is to remind you that, as the head of the government of the largest democracy in the world, the onus of resuming a serious and sincere dialogue with the farmers lies with you,” the letter signed by major farm leaders states.Also Read| Deep Sidhu among 16 named in first charge sheet over Red Fort violenceThe trigger for their outreach wasn’t immediately clear.The signatories include Balbir Singh Rajewal, Darshan Pal, Gurnam Singh Chadhuni, Hannan Mollah, Jagjit Singh Dallewal, Joginder Singh Ugrahan, Shiv Kumar Kakkaji, Yogendra Yadav and Yudhvir Singh, all of who belong to various farm organisations that make up the Samyukt Kisan Morcha.So far, 11 rounds of talks between 40 farm leaders and the government have failed to resolve the crisis. Both the government and farmers called off the series of discussions on January 22, citing lack of progress. The unions have rejected the government’s offer to freeze the laws for 18 months.The Modi government, in September last year, passed The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance, Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.The government has said the laws would spur investments and give farmers freedom to sell their produce directly to large buyers in a sector that accounts for nearly 15% of India’s $2.9 trillion economy and employs half its workforce.Farmers say the laws will threaten their livelihoods by forcing them to sell to corporate giants at poor prices instead of government-run markets, which offer them minimum support prices (MSP).Also Read| Bharatiya Kisan Sangh demands loan waiver for farmers who died of Covid-19An agriculture ministry official who oversaw previous rounds of talks declined to comment on the letter. “The government is always ready to talk to farmers. The prime minister and the agriculture minister have said this in Parliament and outside,” another official said.“We…are writing this letter a few days before our struggle completes six months on 26th May 2021. On the same day, your government at the Centre, the most anti-farmer government that this country has seen, completes seven years in office,” the letter stated.The farm leaders, however, added that they were firm on their “core demands”. These are repealing the three laws, a legal guarantee for MSP, besides protecting farmers from the adverse impact of a proposed electricity bill, which farmers fear would increase power costs for them.“The farm laws are not under implementation since they are suspended. Yet, I think the government will respond positively to starting the dialogue process again since it cannot be seen to be closing the doors for talks,” said RS Mani, a farm economist formerly with the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-unions-write-to-pm-modi-seek-resumption-of-dialogue-101621636656028.html
22-05-2021||India||Narada case: House arrest for Bengal ministers as justices differ||The Calcutta high court on Friday ordered four heavyweight Bengal politicians be kept under house arrest after a difference of opinion split the two-judge bench on granting the leaders interim bail in a corruption case.Senior ministers Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee, Trinamool Congress (TMC) legislator Madan Mitra and former Kolkata mayor Sovan Chatterjee will be placed under house arrest, the court said.A five-judge bench, headed by acting chief justice of Calcutta high court Rajesh Bindal, formed later in the day is expected to hear the matter at 11 am next week on Monday.The four have been in judicial custody since Monday after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) arrested them in connection with the 2016 Narada bribery sting operation.Also Read| CBI makes Mamata party to Narada plea; TMC files FIR“There was a difference of opinion between acting chief justice Rajesh Bindal and justice Arijit Banerjee over the bail plea of the four accused. So, the division bench ordered that a large bench be constituted to hear the matter. Till then, the four accused would be kept under house arrest,” said Manishankhar Chatterjee, Subrata Mukherjee’s advocate.The four had secured bail from a special CBI court on Monday but hours later, the high court stayed the order. CJ Bindal was opposed to vacating the stay but justice Banerjee favoured it.On Friday, advocate Kalyan Banerjee, representing Subrata Mukherjee, told the court that Hakim’s presence was necessary for managing the Covid crisis in Kolkata. “As two of the accused persons are ministers in the state government, the court also permitted them access to administrative files and to meet government officials through video conferencing,” said Manishankhar Chatterjee.As per the court order, “government officials will not have any direct access to the accused. Meetings can be held through video conference and files can be sent to them online. A complete log of the video conference will be maintained. Record of any person visiting the house of the accused has to be maintained. Jail authorities will install CCTVs at the entry point of the houses. Any lapse shall be seriously viewed.”Also Read| Videos, witnesses in Narada case show 4 TMC leaders took cash: CBI sleuthsThe four leaders were hospitalised after complaining of illness on Tuesday. Hakim was admitted to Presidency Correctional Home’s hospital while the rest to state-run SSKM Hospital. The hospital authorities have set up a medical board to treat them. While Hakim returned home late on Friday, the other three accused were still undergoing treatment at SSKM Hospital. Soon after returning home, Hakim held a virtual meeting with officials of Kolkata Municipal Corporation to take stock of the preparedness for cyclone Yaas that is expected to hit the state on May 26.The case against the four pertains to news portal Narada News’s two-year-long sting operation. The videos of the operation were uploaded months ahead of the 2016 West Bengal assembly elections and purportedly showed some TMC leaders accepting money in exchange for alleged favours to a fictitious company.CBI’s plea to transfer the Narada trial out of the state is also pending before the high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/narada-case-house-arrest-for-bengal-ministers-as-justices-differ-101621636914103.html
22-05-2021||India||Govt, Pfizer hit an impasse on vaccine indemnity demand||Pfizer and the central government are at loggerheads over a demand by the US drugmaker for legal protection from any claims linked to the use of its Covid-19 vaccine in one of the world’s biggest markets, two sources told Reuters.India has not given any manufacturer of a Covid-19 vaccine indemnity against the costs of compensation for any severe side effects, which is a condition Pfizer has obtained in many countries where its shots have already been widely rolled out, including Britain and the US.“The whole problem with Pfizer is the indemnity bond. Why should we sign it?” an Indian government source with direct knowledge of the matter said. “If something happens, a patient dies, we will not be able to question them (Pfizer). If somebody challenges in a court of law, the central government will be responsible for everything, not the company,” the source added.Pfizer declined to comment, citing ongoing discussions. India’s health ministry did not reply to requests for comment on Friday.The second source said Pfizer has been consistent in its position on indemnity and is not planning to change its approach for a deal with India.Local trialIndia, which is facing a shortage of shots as coronavirus cases soar, pledged last month to fast-track approvals for overseas vaccine makers including Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson and Johnson. However, none have since sought permission from India’s drug regulator to sell their vaccine in the country, which has a population of 1.35 billion.The second source said the other issue being discussed between Pfizer and New Delhi was the Indian government’s insistence on a local trial for any vaccine approval. The source added that Pfizer cannot finalise terms of a supply agreement, including indemnity, if the vaccine is not first authorised for use in India.Pfizer withdrew its application for emergency use authorisation for the vaccine developed with Germany’s BioNTech in February after India insisted on such a trial. But three other shots on sale in India, developed by AstraZeneca, Russia’s Sputnik V and Bharat Biotech have completed the small-scale safety trials.Albert Bourla, Pfizer CEO, said on May 4 he was hopeful that the government would change its policy of local trials. A third source told Reuters that India’s foreign minister would visit the US this month to try and address Pfizer’s concerns and ease exports of vaccine raw materials. The foreign ministry did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Reuters||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-pfizer-hit-an-impasse-on-vaccine-indemnity-demand-101621637053380.html
22-05-2021||India||13 Maoists killed by forces in Gadchiroli encounter||At least 15 Maoists, including seven women, were killed in an encounter with Gadchiroli Police in a forest area between Potegaon and Rajoli in Gadchiroli district of Maharashtra on Friday, officials said.The exchange of fire took place at around 5.30 am after around 200 jawans of the elite C-60 anti-Maoist squad conducted raids based on a tip-off that the local Maoist squad was trying to organise a meeting with villagers and tendu leaf contractors over wages for collection of tendu leaves.“At least 15 members of the Communist Party of India (Maoist) were killed in the encounter in the jungle,” Gadchiroli deputy inspector general of police Sandip Patil said.“So far, 15 bodies have been recovered from the site and a search is underway,” Patil added.It is believed that all the rebels killed in the encounter belonged to Kasansur dalam (squad). According to the district police, divisional committee member of the Maoists, Satish Mohanda, who was carrying a reward of ₹16 lakh on his head, was among the deceased. Deputy commander of Kasansur dalam, Rupesh Gawde, was also reportedly killed in the gun battle.District police superintendent Ankit Goyal said several armed Maoists escaped with a few bodies of their colleagues.Maharashtra home minister Dilip Walse Patil praised the police for the operation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/13-maoists-killed-by-forces-in-gadchiroli-encounter-101621630143841.html
22-05-2021||India||Sonia Gandhi slams Centre for ‘anti-people’ activities, exploiting farmers||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday accused the BJP-led government at the Centre of indulging in anti-people activities, playing with the future of farmers and acting against their interests by bringing in new agriculture laws. She praised the Congress government in Chhattisgarh, saying that it was trying to bring about a change in the lives of common people, particularly farmers, by empowering them financially. The Congress president indicated this in a written message read out by Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel at an event held at his official residence to disburse cash benefits to farmers and cattle-rearers under two schemes of the state government on the occasion of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi’s death anniversary. On the occasion, Baghel transferred a sum of ₹1,500 crore into bank accounts of about 22 lakh farmers as the first instalment of agricultural input subsidy under the Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojna (RGKNY) for the kharif crop season 2020-21 for paddy cultivation. “In the current situation, when the BJP government at the Centre is involved in anti-people activities, playing with the future of cultivators, taking every step against interests of farmers by bringing in laws (referring to new farms laws) and exploiting them, I am satisfied that the Congress government in Chhattisgarh has been seriously fulfilling its poll promises,” Gandhi said in the message. Virtually speaking on the occasion, AICC’s Chhattisgarh in-charge PL Punia slammed the Centre saying that while the Central Vista project is the priority of the Union government, the Chhattisgarh government’s priority is its farmers and cattle-rearers. Due to the Coronavirus crisis, the state government has halted several of its major projects, including the new state assembly building, Governor house and CM house buildings, but overcoming the challenges, it provided cash benefits to farmers, which reflects its concern for them, he said. Besides, ₹7.17 crore was also transferred into the accounts of cattle-rearers as payment against the dung procurement between March 15 and May 15 under the Godhan Nyay Yojana. The RGKNY scheme was launched on May 21 last year with an aim to encourage crop production in the state. Under this scheme, the state government had given ₹5,628 crore at the rate of ₹10,000 per acre to about 19 lakh farmers in kharif season 2019-20 in four instalments for paddy cultivation. During the kharif season 2020-21, farmers will be provided an input subsidy of ₹9,000 per acre for paddy cultivation. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-gandhi-slams-centre-for-anti-people-activities-exploiting-farmers-101621626472075.html
22-05-2021||India||Bharatiya Kisan Sangh demands loan waiver for farmers who died of Covid-19||The Bharatiya Kisan Sangh, an affiliate of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh that works in the agricultural sector has demanded that the government should waive the loans availed through the Kisan Credit Card for farmers who have succumbed to the Covid-19 infection. The BKS has conveyed to the ministries of finance and agriculture that the government should take a lenient view of the situation that has been brought on by the second wave of the pandemic and offer to write off the pending dues. “We had urged the government to extend the increase in credit limit till June which has been agreed to. Now we are hopeful that it will consider our request to waive off the loans of those famers who passed away because of the pandemic,” said a BKS functionary. The KCC offers farmers loans at reasonable rates to cover the cost of farming, harvest and other expenses. “It is a good scheme that benefits the farmers; the interest subsidies offered by the state and the central government reduces the burden on the farmers considerably,” the functionary said. The BKS had also urged the government to ensure that all supplies from fertiliser to seeds that are required for the Kharif sowing should be made available to the farmers during the lockdown. “Many states have imposed a locked down though essential services are being provided. However, we have asked the government to ensure that farmers can procure all that they need smoothly and without any impediments,” the functionary said. On Wednesday, BKS general secretary, Badri Narayan Chowdhury demanded that the government should rollback its order on the import of pulses. Dubbing it as an “incorrect decision” the BKS said the decision to import pulses has come at a time when farmers are preparing for the Kharif season and a variety of pulses are sown. Chaudhary said the decision of the Ministry of Commerce, to allow free import of pulses up to October, will have an adverse impact on the farmers getting remunerative prices for their harvest. “We are hopeful that just as the government agreed to our demand to continue with subsidy for fertilisers, it will consider the consequences that the free import of pulses will have on the earnings of the farmers,” the functionary quoted above said. On Friday, while inaugurating a helpline for farmers, BJP president JP Nadda thanked the government for retaining the subsidy on fertilisers. “The price of a 50 kg bag of DAP fertiliser will continue to cost only Rs.1200,” he said. “There are many leaders in the country who call themselves farmer leaders and who spoke about their issues but did not do anything on the ground. Ever since he has become the Prime Minister, Narendra Modi has taken several steps for the benefit of the farmers,” Nadda went on to add.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharatiya-kisan-sangh-demands-loan-waiver-for-farmers-who-died-of-covid19-101621624191547.html
22-05-2021||India||Karnataka extends lockdown till June 7, to treat Black Fungus cases free of cost||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Friday said that the lockdown in Karnataka will be extended by 14 days and will now end at 6 am on June 7.“Coronavirus (Covid-19) is spreading across the state and to control it there are strict restrictions that are in force till May 24. Due to these restrictions and the cooperation of the people towards the decisions of the government, the spread of the virus is coming under control day-by-day. After reviewing the opinions of experts, these strict restrictions have been extended by 14 days from 24 May till 6 am on June 7,” Yediyurappa said on Friday, after almost an hour-long meeting with cabinet ministers and other senior officials.Yediyurappa said that the provisions of the existing lockdown-like restrictions, including opening of essential shops and services from 6 am to 10 am, will remain in place.The extension of the existing lockdown comes at a time when Karnataka has seen some stabilizing of its daily Covid-19 infections in the 30,000 range, according to government data.Karnataka reported 32,218 new infections in the last 24 hours on Thursday. It also reported 52,581 recoveries which has brought down the active caseload to 514,238, according to the health bulletin. The positivity rate continued to remain high at 24.22%. The state recorded 353 more deaths as the fatality rate remained at 1.09%.Bengaluru recorded 9591 new infections and accounted for 129 fatalities.The other districts of Karnataka, which are on high alert after indications that the surge will now move towards rural areas, has also seen a spike in infections and fatalities. Ballari, Shivamogga, Tumakuru, Uttara Kannada and Mysuru are among the worst hit, recording 23, 20, 16, 22 and 12 deaths respectively.Yediyurappa had also announced a ₹1250 crore financial package, mostly targeted at unorganised workers, two days ago in lieu of the imminent extension of the lockdown, Hindustan Times had reported.“Lockdown is successful only if aggressive containment (testing, isolation & tracking) is done simultaneously. Both measures hand-in-hand could have a reasonable effect on flattening the epidemic curve,” Giridhara R Babu, epidemiologist and professor at the Public Health Foundation of India and member of Karnataka’s technical advisory committee (TAC) said in a post on Twitter.Yediyurappa also said that his administration had decided that free treatment would be provided for those infected with Mucormycosis, more commonly known as black fungus, in government hospitals.There are at least 97 cases of people infected with black fungus reported in Karnataka, according to official estimates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-extends-lockdown-till-june-7-to-treat-black-fungus-cases-free-of-cost-101621623411448.html
22-05-2021||India||Govt tender bars photos, videos at Central Vista||The Central Public Works Department has mandated restrictions on photography and videography as well as the entry of non-essential visitors during the next phase of the Central Vista project that entails the construction of a common secretariat, tender documents reviewed by HT showed on Thursday. The department has also issued guidelines under the head “Construction Sites for Covid-19 Outbreak” that mandate the use of PPE kits by those entering the areas.“Mandatory use of PPEs (face mask, hand gloves and other as applicable) by everyone entering the premise. Re-usable PPEs should be thoroughly cleaned and should not be shared with others. There will be total Ban on non-essential visitors at sites (including from Head office staff, consultants etc. Photography/Videography at site should be carried out by authorised personnel identified by Engineer in charge. Contractor shall make necessary arrangement to keep away unauthorised persons to take photographs/videos,” one of the tender documents stated.The tender inviting bids for the first three common secretariat buildings part of the Central Vista project at an estimated cost of ₹3,408 crore was issued last month, bids for which will open on June 15. It invited technical bids for the two-stage tender process for three buildings to be constructed on the plot that houses the IGNCA that is proposed to be demolished and relocated to a new campus at Jamnagar House. A total of 10 common secretariat buildings have been planned to serve as offices for about 70,000 central government employees.Last week, the Central Public Works Department, the construction arm of the government, installed boards prohibiting photography or video recording and restricted the entry of public at the construction site for the Central Vista, which includes most of the Rajpath stretch. Hindustan Times reported on May 7 that the list of trees that will be removed for the project will include at least 20 jamun trees that are nearly 100 years old and were planted as part of the original plan of Lutyens’ Delhi in the 1920s.A pre-bid meeting was held on April 30 for the common secretariat, including operations and maintenance for five years, and another was held on Tuesday. Fifteen firms evinced interest including Tata Projects Limited, Shapoorji Pallonji Group, L&T, among others.The project involves having a new Parliament building in place by India’s 75th Independence Day in 2022.Kanchi Kohli, a legal researcher at New Delhi’s Centre for Policy Research said: “The Central Vista is a public space, yet the public has been repeatedly excluded from this redevelopment process. It has been treated like a project of the government, by the government and for the government...It is this approach which is now being extended to disallow entry or photography into an area that the government... only holds in public trust.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-tender-bars-photos-videos-at-central-vista-101621622267741.html
22-05-2021||India||4.5 million passengers hit in massive cyber-attack on Air India||In a massive data breach on national carrier Air India, details of around 4.5 million passengers have been compromised including passport and credit card information, Air India said in a statement late on Friday.In a personal communication to those whose details were stolen, the airline said, “As part of our commitment, we would like to inform you that SITA PSS, our data processor of the passenger service system, recently notified Air India of a data security breach involving personal data of certain passengers, including yours.” The identity of the affected passengers, the message said, was provided by the data processor to Air India on March 25 and April 5, 2021.“We hereby address to you a personal communication of this data security incident. The breach involved some personal data registered between 26th August 2011 and 20th February 2021 with details that included name, date of birth, contact information, passport information, ticket information, frequent flyer data and also credit cards data,” it said.Air India’s passenger service system provider SITA based out of Geneva in Switzerland faced a sophisticated cyber-attack in February leading to leak of personal data of a certain number of the national carrier’s passengers.Air India said it is in touch with various regulatory agencies in India and abroad, and has apprised them about the incident in accordance with its obligations.The airline said it has taken the following steps after the data security incident: Secured the compromised servers, engaged external specialists of data security incidents, notified and is in talks with the credit card issuers and reset the passwords of Air India frequent flyer programmes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/45-million-passengers-hit-in-massive-cyber-attack-on-air-india-101621622451619.html
22-05-2021||India||Drop cases against anti-Sterlite protesters: Stalin||Chennai: Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin on Friday ordered the withdrawal of most of the cases filed against anti-Sterlite protesters and to provide no-objection certificates (NOC) to those arrested during the protests in Thoothukudi district to pursue higher education and employment opportunities.The decision was taken on the eve of the third anniversary of the police firing that killed 13 civilians who participated in the protest. The government’s order is based on recommendations in the interim report submitted last week by the inquiry commission headed by Justice Aruna Jegadeesan.The one-woman commission was set up by the previous AIADMK regime, a day after the firing, to probe the case. “The committee has recommended withdrawal of needless cases filed against the protestors,” said an order from the state. “After consultation with the Advocate General and a report from the Director General of Police, the chief minister issued directions.”The committee also recommended monetary compensation, which the government accepted and has decided to provide ₹1 lakh each to 93 people who were arrested. One person died in jail, and his mother would be given compensation of ₹2 lakh, the order added.Most cases will be withdrawn except those against protestors, whose cases relating to damages to public property have been transferred to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), the order mentioned. All cases were filed against protesters before May 22, 2018, except those that are pending in the Supreme Court.Residents and activists had been protesting in Thoothukudi to shut down the Vedanta Limited-owned Sterlite copper smelting plant due to complaints of pollution on May 22, 2018, the 100th day of the protest, at least 13 civilians were killed and several grievously injured in a police firing which is being probed by the CBI and the retired justice Aruna Jagadeesan committee. After the incident, the state shut down the factory citing environmental violations and a case for Vedanta’s plea to re-open is pending in the apex court. However, the Supreme Court recently allowed the factory to re-open only its oxygen plant to generate medical grade oxygen which is in rising demand across the country to treat critical Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drop-cases-against-anti-sterlite-protesters-stalin-101621622390889.html
22-05-2021||India||Andhra HC cancels local body polls, orders fresh SEC notice||Hyderabad: The Andhra Pradesh high court on Friday cancelled the elections to zilla parishads and mandal parishads (block parishads) held on April 8 and ordered the state election commission to issue fresh notification to conduct the polls again.A single judge bench of the high court headed by Justice M Satyanarayana Murthy said that as per the Supreme Court ruling, there should be a gap of at least four weeks between the election notification and the polling date. Justice Murthy set aside the notification issued by state election commissioner Neelam Sawhney on April 1 for the conduct of elections on April 8, with a gap of just one week and ordered for a fresh notification and polling. In all, there are 660 zilla parishad territorial constituencies (ZPTCs) and 9,984 mandal parishad territorial constituencies (MPTCs) in Andhra Pradesh, of which as many as 126 ZPTCs and 2,363 MPTCs were elected unanimously in the beginning of the election process in March 2020, before it was indefinitely postponed due to outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. Justice Murthy, however, ruled that the unanimously elected ZPTCs and MPTCs would continue and fresh notification could be issued for holding elections only to the remaining 534 ZPTCs and 7,621 MPTCs. An official in the SEC, on the condition of anonymity, said the poll panel is contemplating challenging the order before the division bench of the high court or the Supreme Court after holding discussions with legal experts. After the intensity of the pandemic subsided early this year, former SEC Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar held elections to the gram panchayats and urban local bodies, but not to zilla parishads and mandal parishads as he stepped down from the post on his retirement on March 31. Former chief secretary of the state Neelam Sawhney, who took over as SEC on April 1, issued the notification for the conduct of elections for ZPTCs and MPTCs on April 8. The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) and Jana Sena challenged the notification in the high court on the grounds that the new SEC had not followed the Supreme Court ruling that there should be a model code of conduct for at least four weeks before polling. Agreeing with their contentions, Justice U Durga Prasada Rao of the high court suspended the election process. The SEC moved the division bench, arguing that the four-week time for implementation of model code of conduct was not made mandatory by the Supreme Court, but was only suggestive in nature. “If the code is implemented for four weeks, all the ongoing developmental works would come to a halt,” the SEC argued. On April 7, the division bench gave an interim order permitting the SEC to hold the elections on April 8. But it ordered that the counting of votes should not be held on April 10 and results should not be declared. The division bench referred the issue back to the single judge bench to settle the issue. Accordingly, elections were held but the counting and results were withheld. The high court continued to hear the arguments till April 21 and reserved its judgement, which was delivered on Friday. In a statement, TDP legislator Anagani Satyaprasad said that the high court judgement was “a slap on the face of the Jagan government, which tried to bulldoze the election process using money and muscle power”.Jana Sena chief Pawan Kalyan, in a statement, also welcomed the high court judgement, saying it had upheld the democratic values. “At least now, the government should not go for prestige, but see that fresh notification is issued for the conduct of elections,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-hc-cancels-local-body-polls-orders-fresh-sec-notice-101621622330782.html
22-05-2021||India||Kerala extends lockdown till May 30, CM says not the time to lower guard||Thiruvananthapuram: The Kerala government on Friday extended the ongoing lockdown till May 30, while the triple lockdown enforced in four worst-affected districts will be withdrawn except in Malappuram, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said. Talking to reporters on Friday, Vijayan said though the test positivity rate and active cases have gone down slightly in the last two weeks, it was not the time to lower guard. Kerala, which is one of the five worst affected states, has been under lockdown since May 7. Later, triple lockdown (strict provisions than curfew) was imposed in four high-case districts: Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam, Thirssur and Malappuram. “There is no let-up in cases in Malappuram. Its TPR still remains high. Senior police officers will be camping in the district to take stock of the situation. We have to continue our vigil in other parts of the state though cases are coming down slightly,” he said. In last three days, average TPR in Malappuram was 33%. The state reported 29,673 new cases on Friday when 133,558 people were tested, recording a test positivity rate of 22.22%. The new cases pushed the active caseload in the state to 306,346, which is slightly lower than two weeks ago when the caseload had gone past 475,000. However, what is worrying for the state is the fact that the death rate is going up steadily. Kerala reported 142 deaths on Friday, highest since the outbreak began last year. The state’s mortality rate continues to remain lowest in the country at 0.4% against the national average of 1.30%. In the last one-week, the state has reported 751 deaths, according to health ministry data. Meanwhile fearing exodus of migrant labourers, the state government has started distribution of free food kits while asking contractors and builders to ensure their well-being. According to latest data, around two million people from other states are working in the state especially in construction and unorganised sectors, of which 700,000 have left Kerala in the last two months after the second wave swept the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-extends-lockdown-till-may-30-cm-says-not-the-time-to-lower-guard-101621622270908.html
22-05-2021||India||Karnataka govt extends lockdown till June 7||Bengaluru: Karnataka government on Friday decided to extend the lockdown in the state till 6 am on June 7. The CM has also announced free treatment for those infected with Mucormycosis, more commonly known as black fungus, in government hospitals. There are at least 97 cases of people infected with black fungus in Karnataka, according to the officials.“Coronavirus is spreading across the state and to control it strict restrictions were decided to be in force till May 24. However, after reviewing the opinions of experts, the restrictions have been extended by 14 days from 24 May till 6 am on June 7. Due to these restrictions and the cooperation by the people towards the decisions of the government, the spread of the virus is coming under control day-by-day,” Yediyurappa said, after almost an hour-long meeting with cabinet ministers and other senior officials.Yediyurappa said that the existing relaxations, including the opening of essential shops and services from 6 am to 10 am, will remain in force.The extension of the lockdown comes at a time when Karnataka has seen stability in its daily Covid-19 infections, according to government data.Karnataka reported 32,218 new infections in 24 hours on Thursday. It also reported 52,581 recoveries, which have brought down the active cases to 514,238, according to the health bulletin. The positivity rate continued to remain high at 24.22%. The state recorded 353 more deaths as the fatality rate remained at 1.09%.Meanwhile, Bengaluru on Friday recorded 9591 new infections and 129 deaths. The other districts of Karnataka, which are on high alert after indications that the surge will now move towards rural areas, have also seen a spike in infections and fatalities. Ballari, Shivamogga, Tumakuru, Uttara Kannada, and Mysuru are among the worst hit, recording 23, 20, 16, 22, and 12 deaths respectively.CM Yediyurappa had announced a ₹1,250 crore financial package, majorly targeted at unorganised workers two days ago, Hindustan Times reported.“The lockdown will be successful only if aggressive containment (testing, isolation & tracking) is done simultaneously. Both measures hand-in-hand could have a reasonable effect on flattening the curve,” Giridhara R Babu, epidemiologist, and professor at the Public Health Foundation of India and member of Karnataka’s technical advisory committee (TAC), said in a post on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-govt-extends-lockdown-till-june-7-101621622211499.html
22-05-2021||India||Districts modify lockdown as Covid cases surge||Bengaluru: Even as Bengaluru continues to witness a decline in new Covid-19 cases since the last three days, other districts in the state are seeing a surge in infections. In an attempt to control the rising cases, the district administrations have made stricter modifications to the lockdown measures, than what is already been announced by the state government. Officials in the know of the developments said that the state government has given district administrations a free hand to implement strict measures. Officials in the know of the developments said that the state government has given district administrations a free hand to implement strict measures. An analysis of the Covid-19 cases in Karnataka between May 13 and May 19 shows that north Karnataka’s Belagavi reported the highest positivity rate at 61.59%, while the state average is 27.28%. Hassan, Uttara Kannada and Ballari recorded positivity rates of 47.29%, 43.30% and 41.63% respectively. In comparison, Bengaluru’s positivity rate during this period was 22.23%. Karnataka on Friday reported 32,218 new Covid cases and 353 deaths with Bengaluru alone recording 9,591 cases and 129 deaths, according to the health bulletin. Haveri, which reported the highest Case Fatality Rate (4.27%) is under total lockdown from May 21 to May 25. While the state government lockdown regulations allow the purchase of groceries between 6 am and 10 am, every day, in Haveri this provision has been suspended. According to the Haveri DC’s order, people will be allowed to purchase groceries only between 6 am to 10 am on Sunday, during this period. Similar restrictions are already in place in Hassan, Ballari, Raichur, Kalaburagi and Shivamogga.till May 25 morning. Under the new restrictions in these districts, grocery stores, vegetable and fruit stores, hotels, and wine stores have been shut down, while exceptions have been given to the health sector, supply of LPG cylinders, home delivery of food from hotels, in situ construction activities, and ATM and petroleum outlets. However, in Hassan, grocery stores have been allowed to remain open between 6 am till 10 am on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday. Similarly, Chikkamagaluru district administration on Thursday decided to impose a complete lockdown for four days. “All shops, commercial activities, and industries will remain closed during this period during which only emergency activities would be allowed,” Deputy Commissioner KN Ramesh said. He also added that 14-day quarantine has been imposed on people entering the district from other parts of the country and the state. A senior bureaucrat who didn’t want to be named said the decision to give the district greater autonomy was a result of lessons learnt from the teething problems of lockdown announced on April 17. “Districts had different problems. For example, a section in the guidelines had said that people can’t use vehicles to purchase essentials, they need to travel by foot. This works in Bengaluru city, but not in a hill town like Kodagu,” said that official. He further added that the government has taken a note of the increase in Covid-19 cases in the rural parts and the strict measures taken by the district to bring the situation under control. “The district administration knows what their requirements are, and they have been asked to approach the state government for any assistance,” he added. Meanwhile, as the state extended the lockdown till 6am on June 7, home minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday said that the police department would ensure tighter enforcement of the lockdown to prevent excessive movement of citizens. “As cases are increasing in rural areas, Deputy Commissioners of various districts have imposed lockdown measures strictly, people should also understand the seriousness and cooperate,” Bommai said. He said that in the coming days measures will be put in place wherein the police can seize vehicles of those indulging in unnecessary movement. “...for instance, in Yadgir there are reports about five people going on a motorcycle to attend a marriage, what should we say, so people will have to cooperate with the police to make the lockdown successful,” he added. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/districts-modify-lockdown-as-covid-cases-surge-101621622210831.html
22-05-2021||India||Centre will ensure K’taka gets adequate share of Covid drugs: Gowda||Bengaluru Union minister for chemicals and fertilizers DV Sadananda Gowda on Friday said demands for various medications from Karnataka have increased amid surging Covid-19 cases, adding that the Centre would ensure adequate allocations are made to the state. Gowda, the member of Parliament from Bengaluru North and former Karnataka chief minister, said the state will get the “lion’s share” in allocations of Covid medicines. “Karnataka has so far received 10 lakh (1 million) vials of Remdesivir as allocated till May 23,” the minister said at a press conference in Bengaluru. “From 23 May till 30 May, Karnataka will get the lion’s share of allocations (of Remdesivir) is what I wish to tell you,” he added.The minister said the shortage of antiviral drug cropped as its demand has increased from 2.3 million in the first week of April and now the government is enabling production of 11.9 million at present. He said the government was increasing capabilities to cater to the demand.Remdesivir, a drug used to treat Covid-19 patients, has been discontinued as part of treatment by the World Health Organisation. However, it has been in high demand in many places across the country, including Karnataka. Acute shortage has also resulted in black marketing of remdesivir, with reports of a single vial being sold for a whooping ₹60,000 making headlines over the past few weeks.Karnataka has witnessed a sudden surge in Covid-19 cases since the beginning of April, which has overwhelmed the already inadequate healthcare infrastructure in the state and forcing the BS Yediyurappa-led government, which ignored the warning of an imminent second wave by the technical advisory committee, to play catch up.On Friday, the state reported 32,218 new cases, taking the active caseload due to Covid-19 to 514,238. It also reported 353 fatalities, which took the toll to 24,207 , according to health department bulletin.Gowda said other medication like Tocilizumab was also in high demand. He said Karnataka has so far been allocated nearly 14,000 vials of this imported drug out of the total of around 100,000 that the Centre has so far been able to procure.“We are getting more imported this week. There is no need to panic,” Gowda said.Karnataka has also seen a spike in Black Fungus or Mucormycosis cases in recent days. According to official estimates, around 100 cases have been reported in the state so far. The primary drug used to cure patients infected with black fungus is Amphotericin B, which is an imported drug.Gowda said the Centre has so far secured around 145,000 vials of Amphotericin B, which are being distributed based on demand. The minister said Karnataka has so far been given enough vials to treat 1,650 patients. However, experts questioned the Centre’s calculation, saying that an infected patients requires anywhere between 20-60 vials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-will-ensure-k-taka-gets-adequate-share-of-covid-drugs-gowda-101621622150786.html
22-05-2021||India||K’taka receives 200,000 doses as vaccination drive for 18+ resumes||Bengaluru A day before starting its vaccination drive for all adults, Karnataka received 200,000 doses of Covishield vaccine from Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) on Friday. The new arrival takes the total procurements, including Bharat Biotech-manufactured Covaxin, to 1,094,170, according to the state government. “Karnataka will receive 2 lakh doses of Covishield today from (an) order placed by (the) state govt. So far, we have received 12,420,510 doses incl 11,326,340 (10,160,060 Covisheid & 1,166,280 Covaxin) from GoI & 1,094,170 (950,000 Covishield & 144,170 Covaxin) from state procurement,” Dr K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s minister for health, family welfare and medical education tweeted on Friday. The arrival of new stock comes a day before the state resumes the vaccination drive for 18-44 age group. Karnataka’s vaccination drive has seen a steady decline in recent days, mostly due to the shortage of vaccines in the state. According to the daily bulletin of the state health department, around 11,800,761 doses have been administered in the state till 3.30 pm on Friday. Only 2,572,151 beneficiaries have received both doses of the vaccines, according to official data. The state administered 81,268 doses on Friday, which is less than 30% of its own target of inoculating 300,000 persons per day. Dr CN Ashwath Narayan, deputy chief minister and head of Karnataka’s task force on Covid-19, on Friday said there were at least 190,000 people in the state who are scheduled to get their second dose of Covaxin. Karnataka continues to prioritise the second dose as shortages have forced the government to suspend vaccination for other age groups (18-44) at least twice in the last one month. Narayan said there are 170,000 doses of Covaxin available in Karnataka at the moment. Among the 18-44 age group, the state government will first inoculate immediate family members of health workers, transport department staff, auto and cab drivers, street vendors, court officials, media personnel, differently abled persons and APMC workers among other sections as priority before they open it to others, officials said. Meanwhile, several people took to social media to complain about not being able to secure appointment or slots on the Cowin app. Karnataka has proposed to develop software that would be linked with the Cowin app and streamline the process. “From June 1, this portal will be operational,” Narayan said. Karnataka, like other states in the country, are heavily dependent on vaccines to tide over the deadly second wave of infections that has a higher rate of transmissibility and resulted in more fatalities. The southern state has seen its daily Covid-19 infections stabilise at around 30,000 per day as against around 50,000 about two weeks ago. Karnataka reported 32,218 new infections on Friday. It also reported 52,581 recoveries, which has brought down the active caseload to 514,238, according to the health bulletin. The positivity rate continued to remain high at 24.22%. The state recorded 353 more deaths as the fatality rate remained at 1.09%. Bengaluru recorded 9,591 new infections and accounted for 129 fatalities on Friday, the bulletin said. Other districts are on a high alert after a spike in infections and fatalities were reported in rural areas. Ballari, Shivamogga, Tumakuru, Uttara Kannada and Mysuru are among the worst hit, recording 23, 20, 16, 22 and 12 deaths, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ktaka-receives-200-000-doses-as-vaccination-drive-for-18-resumes-101621622090831.html
22-05-2021||India||Want people in India to know they aren’t alone in Covid fight: US doctor||Dr Ashutosh “Ash” Tewari was himself in an intensive case unit (ICU) for two weeks, battling for life against Covid-19. He then watched his childhood best friend die of the illness after being turned down by multiple hospitals in India that were either running short of doctors or medical supplies.The chair of the department of urology at New York’s Mount Sinai hospital is now determined help India fight the second wave of Covid-19 epidemic that has been described by medical experts as four times more devastating than the first.“I want people in India to know they are not fighting this alone, and we are with them,” said Dr Tewari, who came to the US from Kanpur in the 1990s.Along with Michael J. McCarry, senior vice president of perioperative services, Tewari has led Mount Sinai hospital’s assistance to India.The hospital has sent 25 ventilators, and 100 sleep apnea machines with kits to convert them to ventilators, along with other medical equipment to India through chartered flights in three separate shipments.The hospital has said it also plans to donate 10 Crossvent 3+ ventilators and 15 Medtronic 840 ventilators. The ventilators, oxygen devices and other supplies will be divided into 5 pallets to be shipped to five public hospitals in Mumbai, Delhi, Kanpur, Kolkata and Bengaluru.Dr Tewari’s foundation — The Global Prostate Cancer Research Foundation — has also purchased disposable supplies for 100 patients.Mount Sinai hospital has said this relief effort is specially “dear to his (Dr Tewari’s) heart” as he has seen many relatives and friends suffer and die. He is “personally devastated by what is happening all over India and will do anything possible to help”.Dr Tewari watched his childhood best friend die on WhatsApp, the hospital said. Tewari was on the phone with family, helping them through the process, as to how to get oxygenation and which hospital to go to. They were rejected by multiple hospitals “because there are just not enough doctors or supplies”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/want-people-in-india-to-know-they-aren-t-alone-in-covid-fight-dr-ashutosh-ash-tewari-101621621371312.html
22-05-2021||India||Supreme Court grants bail to rebel YSRCP MP in sedition case||The Supreme Court on Friday granted bail to rebel YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) Member of Parliament Kanmuri Raghurama Krishnam Raju, who is facing sedition charges for remarks causing disaffection towards the Andhra Pradesh government, led by chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy.Raju will have to furnish a personal bond of ₹1 lakh with two sureties of the same amount within 10 days. At the request of the state government, the court has imposed a gag order on the MP, restraining him from speaking about the case in the media. According to the court’s directions, however, the police will have to serve a 24-hour notice to Raju before interrogating him, and Raju’s lawyer will remain present at a distance during questioning. The court has also directed the MP to cooperate with the probe and refrain from influencing witnesses.Raju approached the apex court for bail after the Andhra Pradesh high court on May 15 refused to consider his request, and asked him to knock the doors of the trial court for bail.He was arrested by the state Crime Investigation Department (CID) on May 14. The following day, when his application for remand was to be considered, the Magistrate noticed injuries in his leg. Raju claimed he was tortured in custody by police, but the state denied the charge. A three-member medical board of government doctors ruled he had no injuries. Contrary to this finding, however, the Supreme Court found on Friday that the MP had a fractured toe and injuries in his leg, leading to swelling, contusions and clotting.These injuries were mentioned in a report prepared by a team of three doctors of Army Hospital, Secunderabad, on an order passed by the top court, and the vacation bench of justices Vineet Saran and BR Gavai was prima facie convinced that petitioner may have been ill-treated during custody.The state CID has accused Raju of sedition by pointing to statements made over the past year, when he allegedly incited members of a community, religion or caste to beat and even kill members of another community or religion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-grants-bail-to-rebel-ysrcp-mp-in-sedition-case-101621621011832.html
22-05-2021||India||Cyclone Tauktae: Barge’s missing master booked for ‘negligence’||Mumbai Police on Friday filed an FIR against the captain of a barge that sank in the Arabian Sea after being battered by Cyclone Tauktae for alleged negligence and violating safety rules as the death toll from the powerful storm climbed to 60.Police booked master of the barge P305, Rakesh Ballav, for culpable homicide, causing grievous hurt and negligence.“We have registered a complaint against the captain [of the barge] and others on the basis of a statement given by 49-year-old Mistafizur Rahman Hussain Shaikh, who was part of maintenance crew of the barge,” said joint commissioner of police Vishwas Nangre Patil (Law and Order).Ballav is one of 15 people who were on board P305 and are still missing, four days after Tauktae barreled through India’s western coast.Also Read| Cyclone Tauktae: Maharashtra govt targets Centre over mid-sea mishapAt least 186 people have been rescued out of the 261 on board the barge that sank after the storm hit the Bombay High oilfield on Monday near Mumbai, where some of the country’s biggest offshore oil rigs are located.P305 and two other barges pounded by the cyclone were deployed by Afcons Infrastructure for a contract from state-owned major, Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited (ONGC). Both Afcons and ONGC announced compensation for the deceased on Friday.Ballav’s role came under focus after Shaikh accused him and other officials of overlooking weather alerts and failing to take appropriate care despite knowing the lapse could result in deaths.There was no response from captain’s family. Police said no one has approached them from Ballav’s family till now.In his statement to police, Shaikh, a Malad resident, said the barge was anchored near an unmanned platform in Heera oil fields and gale-force winds snapped all anchors of the vessel around 8am on Monday. The vessel had sent an earlier distress signal to a tugboat, which was unable to help.The barge started drifting out to sea and hit a platform at 9.45 am on Monday. This caused water to start gushing in that side of the barge, and the captain sent a distress signal to Navy and other authorities.Afcons Infrastructure said the master of P305 chose to stay in the sea near the platform where it was working, despite receiving instructions for returning to Mumbai harbour in the wake of cyclone warnings. It also said the responsibility of all marine operations lay with the owners, Durmast Enterprises.The “extremely severe” cyclone, the most powerful one to hit the region in over two decades, caused gusts of wind up to 210kmph and nine-metre-high waves as it raced past Mumbai and made landfall in Gujarat on Monday night.Also Read| Cyclone Tauktae maintained intensity even after landfall, affected hit 9 statesOver the last four days, navy rescuers have pulled out 60 bodies – including 11 on Friday – but at least 26 people, 15 from the barge and 11 from a tugboat, are still missing.Coast Guard has alerted fishermen and coastal police to keep a lookout in shallow waters for survivors or bodies of crewmembers.Commander Mehul Karnik, chief public relations officer of the Western Naval Command, said the search and rescue operations on Friday involved the INS Kochi, Talwar, Tejas, Betwa and Beas.Their efforts were augmented by aerial survey undertaken by P8I surveillance aircraft and two each of Sea King, Chetak and advanced light helicopters. Coast Guard units have also joined the search for the missing crew of P305.Navy said that it will deploy INS Survey for underwater searches to locate the wreckage of the barge, and Varaprada.Naval officers said they have widened the search to a rectangular area of around 3,200 square miles (80 miles north-south by 40 miles east-west).The search area, the officers said, leans more towards north of the spot where P305 capsized, as more bodies were found there. The Navy is relying more on visual search and aerial surveillance, but they are also using radars to track lifeboats or inflatable rafts floating in the sea.They added that the possibility of the bodies of some crew members being trapped in the barge could not be ruled out.Also Read| 'No option but to jump into the sea': Survivors recount harrowing escapeAfcons Infrastructure said it will provide compensation that would be a combination of ex-gratia payouts and insurance compensation, and range from ₹35 lakh to ₹75 lakh per family. The compensation would be “equivalent to balance period of service up to 10 years’ salaries” and would be paid to “not only the families of the deceased persons on its direct rolls, but also families of all deceased persons who were employed with its subcontractors,” a statement released Friday said. The company also stated that it will set up a trust to support the education of the children of the deceased.ONGC on Friday also announced that it would extend an immediate relief of ₹1 lakh to the survivors and ₹2 lakh to the families of the deceased and missing crew members of P305.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/barges-missing-master-booked-for-negligence-101621621011294.html
22-05-2021||India||Govt asks Twitter to drop ‘manipulated media’ tag from toolkit tweets||The ministry of electronics and information technology has sent a strongly worded notice to microblogging platform Twitter, for affixing the manipulated media tag to “tweets made by Indian political leaders with reference to a toolkit created to undermine, derail and demean the efforts of the Government against the Covid-19 pandemic”.An official familiar with the matter said that in its communication, the ministry has stated that a complaint has already been made by one of the concerned parties before local law enforcement and the veracity of the toolkit is under investigation.The ministry has stated that Twitter’s decision to use the manipulated media tag appears “prejudged and prejudiced.” “While the local law enforcement agency is undertaking the investigation to determine the veracity of the ‘tookit’, Twitter has unilaterally drawn a conclusion in this matter and arbitrarily tagged it as ‘Manipulated Media’,” the ministry has stated, said the official. “Such tagging by Twitter appears prejudged, prejudiced and a deliberate attempt to colour the investigation by local law enforcement agency.”Also Read| Twitter flags Sambit Patra’s ‘Congress toolkit’ tweet as manipulated mediaTwitter declined to comment. Twitter’s policies, however, clearly state that it can use “deceptively altered media”. “We may label Tweets that include media (videos, audio, and images) that have been deceptively altered or fabricated. In addition, you may not share deceptively altered media on Twitter in ways that mislead or deceive people about the media’s authenticity where threats to physical safety or other serious harm may result,” states the company’s policy. The government’s directive comes barely hours after Twitter tagged a May 18 post by BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra as “manipulated media”. In the post, Patra alleged that the Congress circulated a document that outlined ways to defame Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The BJP alleged the toolkit was aimed at building a biased narrative over the Indian government’s handling of the second wave of Covid-19, and the Central Vista Project. Many top BJP leaders, including its chief JP Nadda and Union ministers Smriti Irani, Ravi Shankar Prasad, Hardeep Puri, and Piyush Goyal, amplified Patra’s tweet.The Congress accused the BJP of concocting the document on Covid-19 to defame the opposition party. It wrote to Twitter on Thursday seeking action against Patra and other BJP leaders for “grossly misusing” the platform. The Congress accused the BJP of indulging in “large-scale dissemination of false information”, which “has the potential to cause social unrest in the country”.The Ministry has termed the “unilateral action by Twitter as an effort to influence the fair investigation process and a clear overreach, which is totally unwarranted”. It further added that the action dilutes the credibility of the platform. “This action not only dilutes the credibility of Twitter as a neutral and unbiased platform facilitating exchange of views by the users but also puts a question mark on the status of Twitter as an “Intermediary.”Also Read| BJP leader names ‘author’ of Congress ‘toolkit’In February, Twitter was locked in a rare confrontation with the Union government after being given orders to block over 1,300 links -- entire profiles as well as posts -- for alleged incitement during the January 26 farm protest-linked violence. The company complied partially, saying that the orders were not consistent with the law, prompting the government as well as legal experts to accuse it of ignoring the rule of law. The ministry then sent a strongly worded notice to comply, asking it to comply with the directive or face penal action. Over 95% of the URLs were blocked by Twitter, but the accounts continue to remain accessible.The ministry on Friday asked Twitter to remove the “prejudicial” tag in the interest of “fairness and equity”.Patra, on May 18, tweeted, “Friends look at the #CongressToolKit in extending help to the needy during the Pandemic! More of a PR exercise with the help of “Friendly Journalists” & “Influencers” than a soulful endeavour. Read for yourselves the agenda of the Congress: #CongressToolKitExposed”.Internet Freedom Foundation trustee Apar Gupta said that matter raises concerns regarding the legal powers invoked to ask Twitter to take down the tag. “A threshold concern arises with respect to the legal power that has been used given that the information technology act may not contain such powers. The directions, if any, need to be clearly anchored within existing law, which is right now, not present. It also raises concerns given that platforms have been asked by MEITY barely two to three backs to contain disinformation regarding the pandemic,” Gupta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-asks-twitter-to-drop-manipulated-media-tag-from-toolkit-tweets-101621620950673.html
22-05-2021||India||PM Modi warns against black fungus, mourns fatalities||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday warned against the “new challenge of black fungus” and said the country must be prepared to fight the rare and potentially fatal condition that is increasingly being seen in recovering Covid-19 patients. The PM was visibly emotional as he spoke about those who had lost their lives to Covid-19 and called for vaccinations to become a mass movement in the long battle against the viral disease.“In our ongoing fight against Covid-19, a new challenge of black fungus has surfaced. We must focus on taking precaution and preparation to deal with it,” said the PM during a virtual meeting with health workers from his parliamentary constituency, Varanasi.The mucormycosis infection, or black fungus, which some doctors have blamed on the high use of steroids to combat Covid-19, kills more than 50% of patients within days. In some cases, eyes and upper jaws are removed by surgeons to save lives.The Centre on Thursday told the Delhi high court that as on May 19, there were 7.251 cases of mucormycosis in India. Of these, Uttar Pradesh recorded 289.Paying his respects to those who lost their lives during the pandemic, Modi said: “This virus has snatched many people from us. Those who lost their loved ones because of Corona, I pay my tribute and I express my condolences.”The PM also called for special attention to rural areas and highlighted the need to take treatment to the doorsteps of patients to reduce the burden on the health system. “Our mantra will be, jahaan bimar, vahi upchaar (wherever there is illness, there should be treatment). The more we take wellness to the people, the less will be the pressure on our health systems,” he said.He lauded the efforts of doctors, nurses, technicians, ward boys and ambulance drivers. “But this pandemic is so big that despite all the efforts we have not been able to save the lives of our family members.”Modi said Varanasi benefited from the strategy of having micro containment zones, while highlighting “Kashi Kavach” – a telemedicine initiative involving doctors, laboratories and private companies.“Unprecedented pressure on the health system posed a major challenge before us. But the medical infrastructure that came up in Kashi during the last seven years helped us a lot in handling the situation that emerged due to the second wave of Covid-19,” said the PM.“Bringing doctors, labs and e-marketing companies together to provide a telemedicine facility named ‘Kashi Kavach’ is also a very innovative initiative.”The Prime Minister termed the vaccine a ‘safety armour’ against Covid-19 and also urged people to get vaccinated.“Vaccination has provided protection to our frontline workers, who could serve the people. In the coming days, we will be extending vaccine protection to everyone,” he said.Modi also talked about the threat to children and said they needed to be protected in the fight against Covid.“There is a need to protect our children against Covid-19. We have had successes in the past in battling diseases which affect children, and we have successfully dealt with those illnesses and ensured the safety of our children. We must implement best practices and do all we can to ensure children are safe,” he said, specifically pointing to Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s role in succesfully dealing with Japanese encephalitis (JE) , which claimed the lives of thousands of children in UP.“Once, Yogiji cried in Parliament for it... After becoming chief minister, Yogiji, along with the Centre, launched a drive against JE. And we have controlled JE up to some extent...,” he added.Soon after the virtual address, Samajwadi Party president and former UP CM Akhilesh Yadav attacked the Bharatiya Janata Party governments at Centre and the state, saying that the lives of people could have been saved had both focused on arranging essentials for Covid patients instead of indulging in“fake” praise.“People of the state and the country are facing hardships due to the exchange of praises between heads of the country and the state. Had the time spent on fake praises been spent on arranging vaccines, beds and oxygen, lives of many people could have been saved. Condemnable!,” Yadav said in a Twitter post in Hindi.Uttar Pradesh reported 7,682 new Covid cases on Friday, taking its tally to 1,659,212. The death toll in the state reached 18,760 with 172 new fatalities.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-warns-against-black-fungus-mourns-fatalities-101621620890635.html
22-05-2021||India||Mamata Banerjee may fight by-election from Bhawanipore as MLA vacates seat||West Bengal agriculture minister and Bhawanipore legislator Sobhandeb Chattopaddhyay resigned from the assembly on Friday, clearing the way for chief minister Mamata Banerjee to contest a by-election from the constituency she represented twice since coming to power a decade ago.Banerjee took oath as chief minister on May 5 for the third time despite losing her election from the high-profile Nandigram seat to her protégé-turned-rival Suvendu Adhikari. Under the rules, she has to get elected to the House in six months.“My party did not ask me to resign. I was under no pressure. I took the decision as a sincere worker of the Trinamool Congress (TMC) so that Mamata can contest from Bhawanipore again,” Chattopadhyay said after putting in his papers.“Her role in state and national politics is more important right now,” he added.Assembly speaker Biman Banerjee confirmed the resignation.“Chattopadhyay came to my officer a little after 2.30 pm and submitted his resignation. He said it is his voluntary decision. I have accepted it,” he said.A veteran TMC leader, Chattopadhyay was shifted from his traditional seat of Rashbehari in Kolkata to Bhawanipore after Banerjee decided to move to the rural Nandigram seat to take on Adhikari.She lost the election by 1,956 votes but led TMC to a thumping victory in the assembly polls by winning 213 of the 292 seats contested. BJP won 77 and Adhikari is now the leader of opposition.With Chattopadhyay’s resignation, Bhawanipore becomes the sixth assembly seat to fall vacant. The state assembly has 294 seats but polls were held in 292 as two as two candidates at two seats in Murshidabad district died of Covid-19 before elections were held.The Election Commission (EC) has not declared the poll schedule for any of these seats.TMC leaders said Banerjee will decide what role Chattopadhyay will play. He may contest any of the vacant seats.The party may also send him to the Rajya Sabha, replacing Dinesh Trivedi who joined the BJP on May 6. Chattopadhyay, 77, said he is too old to go to Parliament.Like Banerjee, finance minister Amit Mitra also needs to get elected within six months. He did not contest the polls. Mitra earlier represented the Khardah seat, which fell vacant after the TMC’s winning candidate died of Covid-19.On May 17, Banerjee cleared a cabinet decision to form Vidhan Parishad, or legislative council, which she promised before the polls. Banerjee said eminent people as well as veteran leaders who were not nominated for the assembly elections would be made members of the Vidhan Parishad.Vidhan Parishad members can become ministers and civic body members and legislators elect its members.However, according to Article 169 of the Constitution, Parliament has to pass a bill for creation of Vidhan Parishad and the President’s assent is also mandatory. The process may take more than six months.In such a scenario, Mitra could contest any of the vacant assembly seats, TMC leaders said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-may-fight-by-election-from-bhawanipore-as-mla-vacates-seat-101621620830557.html
22-05-2021||India||Ensure equitable access to Covid-19 testing, says Rockefeller Foundation report||The Rockefeller foundation, in consultation with experts, has developed a comprehensive document on Covid-19 tests that outlines who should be tested using what method, equitable availability of testing even in rural areas and to those who are socio-economically disadvantaged, and conducting repeated well-designed sero-surveys to guide policy matters.The document also says a streamlined regulatory pathway must be created for newer diagnostics and a mechanism should be put in place for post marketing survey of the kits.The Road Ahead for Smart Covid-19 Testing and Tracing in India report developed in collaboration with the Rockerfeller foundation and in consultation with researchers such as virologist Dr Shahid Jameel states that almost half of the tests conducted so far have been using less accurate Rapid Antigen Test (RAT), with single tests being considered confirmatory in several states.Also Read | Real Covid-19 death toll could be ‘two to three’ times above official stats: WHOIt suggests a dual pathway for testing, which the document refers to as the Cafeteria Approach. For confirmatory diagnosis, only molecular tests such as RT-PCR, CBNAAT, and TrueNat must be used. If unavailable, multiple RAT tests should be done sequentially three to four days apart so that the infection is detected once the viral load in the body goes up.In addition, there must be testing to conduct surveillance in places such as schools, offices, shops, travel, and social gatherings. For this, RAT test, pooled RT-PCR test (where several samples are mixed and tested as one), and saliva-based tests that are yet to be approved in India should be used as per the report.The document also calls for equitable access of the tests – providing those willing to pay for a home-based testing at a premium while allowing special provisions for the economically disadvantaged such as the government paying for the tests whether it is done at a government or a private sector.Covid-19 testing should be made a part of existing disease control programme, the report suggests. A good step by the government was to make testing free under Ayushman Bharat, however, only 400,000 to 500,000 test were conducted under the scheme till January this year, which is less than half of the number of tests India conducted in a day at the peak. The report says it could be so because people did not know of the provision or they were already accessing free services provided by state governments.The report also states that vaccinated individuals must be tested if they develop symptoms or come in contact with a Covid-19 positive person till the time there is good evidence to suggest that vaccination also cuts transmission.In addition, the report calls for the government to conduct a study to see the immune response of those who have natural infection and those who have been vaccinated to further inform the vaccination strategy.The report calls for scaling up of newer technologies such as FELUDA tests, home based lateral flow tests, another variant of molecular testing called LAMP (Loop-mediated isothermal amplification) tests. And, create a mechanism for post marketing survey of all new kits.The report also calls for adequate sequencing to detect new variants as well as constantly updating the RT PCR primers to ensure that newer variants do not escape the test.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ensure-equitable-access-to-covid-19-testing-report-by-scientific-advisor-s-office-101621598689092.html
22-05-2021||India||Goa court acquits former Tehelka editor in rape, sexual assault case||A fast-track court in Goa on Friday acquitted Tarun Tejpal, 57, the former editor of Tehelka magazine, of charges of rape and sexual assault levelled by a former colleague during a conference at a five-star hotel in Goa in 2013.The case hit the headlines for weeks amid a renewed focus on crimes against women. It surfaced a year after the rape and murder of a 23-year-old student on a moving bus in Delhi provoked national outrage, and prompted the government to pass tougher laws to check such crimes. The allegations against Tejpal also triggered a debate on harassment of women at workplaces, and underreporting of such cases over fears of job losses and persecution.Tejpal faced the trial under India Penal Code’s Sections 376 (rape), 354 A (sexual harassment), 354 B (criminal assault with intent to disrobe a woman), 341 (wrongful restraint), and 342 (wrongful confinement).Additional sessions judge Kshama Joshi acquitted Tejpal, days after his lawyer Rajeev Gomes, 47, died of Covid on May 12.Tejpal maintained he was falsely accused of sexual assault, while Francisco Távora, the special public prosecutor in the case, called the judgement a serious setback, and said that the state was likely to file an appeal.“[We] will be going through the reasons assigned by the judge. We are seriously aggrieved and that is why we will be preferring an appeal against it,” Távora said.Tejpal said after the verdict the past seven-and-a-half years have been traumatic for his family. “In an awfully vitiated age, where ordinary courage has become rare, I thank her [the judge] for standing by the truth,” he said in a prepared statement. “...we have dealt with the catastrophic fallout of these allegations on every aspect of our personal, professional, and public lives,” he added.Tejpal also said they felt the “boot of the state”but cooperated fully with the Goa Police and the legal system through hundreds of court proceedings. He thanked the court for “its rigorous impartial and fair trial” and for its thorough examination of the CCTV footage and other empirical material on record.The investigators in 2013 said there were no cameras in the elevators even as they studied footage from CCTV cameras in the hotel. Tejpal had also referred to an “unfortunate incident” between himself and the colleague in a leaked e-mail to Tehelka’s management in 2013. He described the incident “bad lapse of judgment” in the e-mail.In another note, later, however, he said that he was being “framed”.In his statement following his acquittal, Tejpal said his family’s privacy should be respected. “I will make a comprehensive statement at an appropriate time in the future.”Tejpal also paid a tribute to Gomes. “Seldom does a long-fought vindication arrive hand in hand with profound heartbreak. Last week, my trial lawyer died of Covid. Dynamic and brilliant at 47, he was on the brink of a scintillating career as a criminal lawyer at the national level. No person fought harder, and with greater skill to reclaim my life and reputation. As a family, we owe Rajeev a profound and permanent debt.”Gomes’s son, Sean, was present in the court and thanked it for passing a fair and just judgement. “...my father put in a tremendous amount of hard work and dedication into this case,” he said.Távora blamed Tejpal’s attempts to get himself discharged in the case among the reasons for the delay in the trial. “The accused wanted discharge in the case and went up to the Supreme Court and got a stay. That is why the trial was stopped for a while for two years. Then it was resumed in 2019. Since August 2019, it has been going on. Since September 2020, it has been going on a day-to-day basis.”The trial in the case began in September 2017 before it was stalled as Tejpal moved the high court, and then the Supreme Court against the framing of charges against him, and for his discharge. The Supreme Court ordered that the trial be completed by December 2020. It later extended the deadline citing the pandemic. The pronouncement of the judgement was again adjourned on Wednesday as power supply was disrupted due to Cyclone Tauktae.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tarun-tejpal-acquitted-in-2013-sexual-assault-case-101621585008423.html
