23-05-2021||India||Kamal Nath booked for saying ‘Indian Covid-19 variant’ responsible for second wave||Madhya Pradesh Congress Committee (MPCC) president Kamal Nath was booked on Sunday for allegedly maligning the image of India internationally by claiming that the ‘Indian variant’ of the Covid-19 virus was responsible for the second wave in the country, police said.The case was registered on the complaint of medical education department minister, Vishwas Sarang and other BJP leaders. BJP leaders alleged that the Congress leader held a virtual press conference and blamed the ‘Indian strain’ for the deadly second wave. BJP leaders also lodged the complaint on a video that went viral on social media in which Nath can be seen addressing Congress MLAs on the issue of shortage of fertilizers and other issues and telling them it is the right opportunity to start a fire so that farmers would get justice. The case has been registered under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of IPC and Section 54 (punishment for false warning) of Disaster Management Act by the Crime Branch, Irshad Wali, deputy inspector general (DIG) of police said. According to the FIR, “Kamal Nath said Covid-19 started with the Chinese variant but now it is the Indian variant of Covid-19 which is responsible for the second wave and many countries have suspended flights due to the Indian variant. Nath also said Indians who are working and studying in foreign countries are facing trouble due to it. But in reality foreign countries are trying to help India by sending important items to fight against the epidemic. Nath tried to misguide people and to create disturbance in the country.”“Nath also violated the norms of WHO, in which the organisation clearly said no variant of the virus should be named after a country, person, organisations and birds’ names,” reads the FIR.The FIR also mentions that Kamal Nath tried to spread anarchy by telling Congress MLAs to start a fire to ensure justice for agitating farmers. “Nath and other Congressmen are trying to create unrest in India and MP by doing dirty politics as they had done during the 1984 riots. Nath insulted our country internationally and he should be booked under sedition charges,” Vishwas Sarang said. After the FIR against him Kamal Nath said, “People who lost family members due to shortage of oxygen, injections, beds and other facilities during the second wave should also register an FIR against the heartless chief minister and other ministers of MP. People, who lost their family members due to Covid-19 and their deaths have not been included as Covid deaths, should also register an FIR against the CM and his cabinet ministers.” Former minister and Congress MLA Jitu Patwari said, “The BJP-led state government is misusing power to hide the data and the real pain of Covid-19 infected people. They are not concerned about India’s image but they are more concerned about the Prime Minister and BJP’s image. They should book all the Congress leaders because we will not keep mum on lies of the state and central government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kamal-nath-booked-for-saying-indian-covid-19-variant-responsible-for-second-wave-101621793764264.html
23-05-2021||India||In Bihar, vaccination for those in 18-44 age group resumes after day’s interruption||Patna resumed regular vaccination against coronavirus for the 18-44 years age group on Sunday, after forced interruption on Saturday, when it ran out of supplies. On paper, however, vaccination did not stop in the state capital even on Saturday. The State Health Society, Bihar (SHSB), which meticulously plans vaccination session sites depending on the availability of vaccines in the state, operated six special camps, where it inoculated 822 people — a symbolic number though against a target population of 5.39 crore in the 18-44 years category in the state. The special camps were held at different offices, including the Raj Bhawan, Delhivery, Chanakya Law University, Indian Oil, Judges Court City and the NTPC-Barh on Saturday. All the 57 regular vaccination session sites, including the 46 rural and urban primary health centres in Patna, were shut in the absence of vaccines, said an official who did not wish to be named. Those trying to pre-book vaccination slots, a pre-requisite for the 18-44 years population, had a harrowing time doing it on the CoWIN portal. There were some districts left with less than 1,000 doses of vaccine, forcing them to close many vaccination session sites. “We manage our session sites as per availability of vaccines. We have to do fire-fighting every day,” said Manoj Kumar, executive director, State Health Society, Bihar. Patna civil surgeon Dr Vibha Kumari Singh also came out in defence of the government. “We cannot entirely close vaccination in the district. So, we reduce the number of vaccination session sites to keep the vaccinations low in case of shortage of vaccines. We have no control over it (supplies),” said Dr Singh. The state received 4.89 lakh doses of the vaccine for the 18-44 years age group on Saturday. Out of this, Patna received around 50,000 doses of the vaccines on Saturday evening and was able to revive its 57 session sites for vaccination on Sunday. After being able to vaccinate 47,207 people on Saturday, the state inoculated 1,24,175 on Sunday against its initial target to vaccinate 2.50 lakh people per day and against 7.50 crore people to be vaccinated in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-bihar-vaccination-for-those-in-18-44-age-group-resumes-after-day-s-interruption-101621790524174.html
23-05-2021||India||'When allopathy doctors call Ayurveda pseudoscience': Ramdev replies to minister, withdraws controversial statement||Nudged by Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan, Yoga guru Ramdev on Sunday withdraw his statement on allopathy which he claimed was a Whatsapp message that he was reading at a meeting and not his personal opinion about allopathy. "I am not against allopathy. Rather I admit that allopathy has been serving humanity through the continuous progress it made," Ramdev wrote expressing regret that his reading out the WhatsApp message which denigrated modern medical science may have hurt people's sentiments.The move comes after Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan wrote a letter to Ramdev urging him to withdraw the statements as those have hurt the doctors' fraternity who are fighting day in and day out. Doctors are "akin to deities for the people of the nation," Dr Vardhan said.माननीय श्री @drharshvardhan जी आपका पत्र प्राप्त हुआ,उसके संदर्भ में चिकित्सा पद्दतियों के संघर्ष के इस पूरे विवाद को खेदपूर्वक विराम देते हुए मैं अपना वक्तव्य वापिस लेता हूँ और यह पत्र आपको संप्रेषित कर रहा हूं- pic.twitter.com/jEAr59VtEeA video of Ramdev went viral in which Ramdev was seen calling allopathic medicine 'tamasha'. 'waste' etc."At this time calling presently practised treatment as 'Tamasha' you have not only questioned the allopathy but also the ability and motive of the doctors practising it, which is inappropriate," the health minister wrote.Though Ramdev expressed regret, he said criticism of any branch of medicine should not be seen as an attack and it is in no way opposing science. "Everyone should progress through self-evaluation. Some allopathic doctors too consider Indian medical science, Ayurveda, yoga as pseudo-science, which hurts crores of people."If modern medical science has come up with the treatment of polio, chickenpox, then Yoga, Ayurveda and naturopathy too have worked towards finding a permanent way out for blood pressure, sugar, thyroid, arthritis, fatty liver, hepatitis, asthma and several genetic diseases," Ramdev said."I respect allopathy doctors who have saved crores of lives during the Covid-19 pandemic. We too have saved many lives through Yoga and Ayurveda; that too should be respected," the Yoga guru said.The Indian Medical Association on Saturday sent a legal notice to Ramdev over this statement and sought prosecution of Ramdev under the Epidemic Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ramdev-withdraws-statement-on-allopathy-but-says-self-evaluation-is-necessary-101621789708240.html
23-05-2021||India||Can people without Covid get black fungus? Experts explain||Amid the sharp rise of the cases of mucormycosis or black fungus among Covid-19 patients in India, experts have warned that this fungal infection can happen even without Covid and so those who have high blood sugar level should be on alert."This is an infection which was present before Covid too. What medical students are taught about black fungus is that this infects diabetic people — those who have uncontrolled diabetes. The combination of uncontrolled diabetes and some other significant disease may lead to black fungus," Niti Aayog (health) member VK Paul said.Explaining the severity of diabetes which makes one vulnerable to black fungus, Dr Paul said blood sugar level reaches 700-800, a situation medically known as diabetic ketoacidosis, attack of black fungus, be in among children or older people, is common.Diabetes, cold oxygen, unwashed masks: AIIMS doctor lists reasons for rise in black fungus cases"Any other diseases like pneumonia aggravate the situation. Now, there is Covid which itself has its impacts. Then comes the use of the steroid. All these have compounded the situation, but in short people without Covid can also get mucormycosis, if the other conditions are present," Dr Paul said.Healthy people have no need to worry about this infection, AIIMS' Dr Nikhil Tandon has said adding that those who have weakened immunity are only at a greater risk."It may have happened that the Covid variant in the second wave of the pandemic has attacked the immunity more than the first wave which is why so many cases of mucormycosis are being reported. In addition to this, there has been rampant use of steroids in this wave. But nothing can be said with certainty without proper investigation," Dr Tandon said.On Sunday, the total number of black fungus cases in Haryna rose to 398, with Gurugram reporting the maximum of 147 cases. Kerala reported four blacck fungus deaths, whle Uttarakhand declared mucormycosis as an epidemic. In Madhya Pradesh's Jabalpur, one case of white fungus was reported on Saturday, which doctors said is curable and common.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-people-without-covid-get-black-fungus-experts-explain-101621787722954.html
23-05-2021||India||States, UTs given over 9.8 million vials of Remdesivir so far: Union minister Sadananda Gowda||The government has allocated 98.87 lakh vials of antiviral drug Remdesivir to states and union territories so far, Union Chemicals and Fertilisers Minister Sadananda Gowda said on Sunday.He noted that 22.17 lakh vials of the drug, which is being used in the treatment of Covid-19, have been allocated to states for the period May 23 to May 30."Additional 22.17 lac vials of #Remdesivir have been allocated to all states/UTs for the period 23rd to 30th May. Earlier, 76.70 lacs vials of the drug were made to all states till May 23, thus total 98.87 lacs vials of #Remdesivir have been allocated across the country so far," Gowda tweeted.With a massive surge in coronavirus infections across the country, demand for Remdesivir has gone up manifold.The government has already waived customs duty on Remdesivir, its raw materials and other components used to make the antiviral drug in order to help augment domestic availability and reduce the cost of the injection.On April 11, the Centre banned the export of the injection and its APIs till the situation improves.Various drug companies have also cut the prices of Remdesivir injection following intervention of the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-uts-given-over-9-8-million-vials-of-remdesivir-so-far-union-minister-sadananda-gowda-101621784647543.html
23-05-2021||India||Air Force carries relief material, NDRF staff as Bengal preps for Cyclone Yaas||Preparations to tackle devastation likely to be caused by Cyclone Yaas on May 26 began in full swing in Bengal on Sunday with the state government setting up a special control room from where chief minister Mamata Banerjee will monitor the situation. The state government relaxed a few lockdown regulations so that essential goods and agricultural products can be moved and emergency activities initiated in south Bengal. During the day, the Indian Air Force deployed a C-130 aircraft to carry 21 tons of essential equipment and 334 National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) personnel from Patna, Vananasi and Arakkonam (in Tamil Nadu) to Kolkata and Port Blair. “The cyclone is expected to make landfall on the West Bengal and adjoining Odisha coast on May 26. The IAF has kept a C-17, an IL-76, three C-130s, four An-32s and two Dornier transport aircraft on readiness. Additionally, 11 Mi-17V5s, two Chetaks, three Cheetahs, two ALH Dhruvs and seven Mi-17 helicopters are also on alert for any eventuality,” the IAF said in a statement. The Alipore weather office in Kolkata said at 3 pm on Sunday that the low pressure noticed over east-central Bay of Bengal on Saturday had concentrated into a depression about 560 km to the north-northwest of Port Blair (Andaman), 590 km east-southeast of Paradip (Odisha), 690 km south-southeast of Balasore (Odisha) and 670 km south-southeast of Digha (West Bengal). It is very likely to move in a north-northwest direction and intensify into a cyclonic storm by May 24 morning and into a very severe cyclonic storm in the subsequent 24 hours. It will continue to intensify further and reach north-west Bay of Bengal by May 26. It is very likely to cross north Odisha and West Bengal between Paradip and Sagar islands by evening of May 26, said the weather office. In Kolkata, the city civic body beefed up operation at all 80 pumping stations so that rainwater can be drained out fast. “We have already started pumping out excess water so that the underground drainage system remains clear when the cyclone hits the city,” said Tarak Singh, a member of the board of administrators at the Kolkata Municipal Corporation. Civic body staff also started trimming overgrown trees to minimize damage to property and overhead wiring. People in large parts of the city had to live without power for days last year when Cyclone Amphan snapped electricity cables. Kolkata Police commissioner Soumen Mitra held a meeting with officials of the army, NDRF, civic body and CESC, the private power supplier to the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-force-carries-relief-material-ndrf-staff-as-bengal-preps-for-cyclone-yaas-101621784523791.html
23-05-2021||India||Will Covid 3rd wave affect children? 10 things experts have said||It is not yet known when a third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic will strike India. Experts are not yet certain that a 3rd wave will come. But amid apprehension of a 3rd wave later this year or early next year, states have started preparing, focussing mostly on protecting the children.Here is what experts have said on a possible 3rd wave so far:1. AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria has said there is not enough evidence that the third wave is going to predominantly affect the children. The ace receptors to which the virus binds itself to the human cells are relatively less in children as compared to adults, he said.2. But it can not be said that children can't be affected by the virus at all. They can get infected and can spread the infection to others, Niti Aayog (health) member VK Paul has said.3. However, the impact is mild among children. Generally, they do not require hospitalisation and symptoms may not be present.4. Efforts must be on to not allow children to become part of the transmission chain, Dr Paul said, adding that the age group when children become more mobile should be paid more attention.5. But is a third wave inevitable? The government's principal scientific advisor K VijayRaghavan said it will depend on many factors including how much the population is protected.6. By protection, he meant vaccination, immunity and Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. If a large population of any particular area get vaccinated and abide by all Covid-appropriate behaviour.7. A third wave is possible if there is an opportunity, in the form of a susceptible population.8. It may not occur at the same time at all places in India. It may not occur at all, K VijayRaghavan earlier said.9. The Centre has issued guidelines on how to treat Covid-19 cases among children. The Uttar Pradesh government has decided to vaccinate parents of kids under the age of 10 so that they do not get infected from their children if the latter contract the virus.10. Clinical trials of Bharat Biotech's Covaxin for the age group of 2 to 18 years have started. "We will have some degree of protection because clinical trials are currently underway for children," Dr Guleria has said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-covid-3rd-wave-affect-only-children-10-things-experts-have-said-101621783786753.html
23-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Aircraft, warships on standby for Cyclone Yaas relief efforts and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Aircraft, warships on standby to respond to Cyclone YaasIndia has placed its military aircraft and warships on standby for rescue and relief ahead of Cyclone Yaas making landfall on the country’s eastern coast on May 26. Read moreUSCIS should approve H-1B visas for 6 years, suggests Cato Institute's David BierThe United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) recently revoked a memo, issued during the Donald Trump administration, to ensure smoother H-1B visa extension. Read more'They will be lot more conditioned': Taylor says IPL ending early 'probably played into India's hands', explains whyVeteran New Zealand batsman has remarked that the suspension of IPL 2021-- due to the Covid-19 crisis in India and within the IPL bio-bubble-- has "played into India's hands." Read moreKareena Kapoor shares Mumbai Police’s reminder to mask up featuring her and Saif Ali KhanMumbai Police, known for creatively using pop culture references to send across important messages to citizens, turned to Bollywood for their latest series of public service announcements on Covid-19 safety regulations. Read moreTwinkle Khanna shares 3 book recommendations ‘for a brief respite’ amid Covid-19As the real world gets too gloomy to deal with 24x7, given the conflicts and Covid-19 death rates, most of us are looking for escapism be it through all travel pictures, short video reels on Instagram, a movie on OTT platforms or books for bookworms. Read moreCyclone Yaas: When, where it will make landfall; PM Modi's order; Odisha warnedJust days after India's west coast bore the brunt of Cyclone Tauktae, the east coast is now preparing for Cyclone Yaas. The Indian Meteorological Department said that the 'very severe cyclonic storm' is expected to make landfall in northern Odisha on May 26. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-aircraft-warships-on-standby-for-cyclone-yaas-relief-efforts-and-all-the-latest-news-101621782868301.html
23-05-2021||India||Aircraft, warships on standby to respond to Cyclone Yaas||India has placed its military aircraft and warships on standby for rescue and relief ahead of Cyclone Yaas making landfall on the country’s eastern coast on May 26, officials familiar with the development said on Sunday. Army, navy and coast guard relief teams are also ready to get deployed to assist the civil authorities at short notice, the officials said. The Indian Air Force has kept one C-17, one IL-76, three C-130s, four An-32s and two Dornier transport aircraft on readiness for humanitarian assistance and disaster relief (HADR), IAF spokesperson Wing Commander Ashish Moghe said on Sunday. “Additionally, 11 Mi-17 V5s, two Chetaks, three Cheetahs, two Dhruvs and seven Mi-17 helicopters are also on alert for any eventuality,” he said. As of Sunday, the IAF has airlifted 950 National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) personnel and 70 tonnes of cargo from Jamnagar, Varanasi, Patna and Arakonnam to Kolkata, Bhubaneswar and Port Blair in 15 aircraft. The navy, which was at the centre of rescue and relief efforts in Arabian Sea in the aftermath of Cyclone Tauktae, has also shifted into overdrive to respond to the situation likely to unfold along the eastern coast. The armed forces have commenced preparations to mitigate the impact of Cyclone Yaas, the defence ministry said. “The Indian Navy, fresh from HADR and rescue operations on the western coast, has moved 10 HADR pallets to Bhubaneswar and Kolkata, while five HADR pallets are ready at Port Blair. Eight ships of the Eastern Naval Command and Andaman and Nicobar Command have been embarked with HADR bricks (relief material) to provide succour to the people likely to be impacted,” the ministry said in a statement. Four diving teams and 10 flood relief columns are ready at Kolkata, Bhubaneswar and Chilika for providing assistance to the civil authorities at short notice, the officials said. Also, seven flood relief teams and two diving teams are ready at different locations in Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Naval aircraft and helicopters in Vishakhapatnam and Port Blair are on alert to carry out search and rescue missions, the officials said. “Eight flood relief columns and three engineer task Forces of the Indian Army are ready for immediate deployment on requisition by the civil administration. The armed forces are in constant touch with the civil administration of the affected states. Armed forces teams are aware of the need to keep the road and rail links open to ensure uninterrupted supply of life saving oxygen and drugs required for treatment at Covid-19 hospitals,” the statement added. The ministry said the Indian Coast Guard has also mobilised its assets. “All ashore, afloat and aviation units are on high alert and ICG ships and aircraft have been deployed in the Bay of Bengal and Andaman Sea,” said another statement, “In addition, 31 coast guard disaster relief teams with inflatable boats, lifebuoys and lifejackets are on standby. Medical teams and ambulances have also been kept on standby for swift mobilisation,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aircraft-warships-on-standby-to-respond-to-cyclone-yaas-101621779063521.html
23-05-2021||India||‘Only centre’s responsibility: Rahul Gandhi on bodies of Covid victims found in Ganga||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday blamed the central government and said that it was the centre’s responsibility that people are leaving their loved ones in the Ganges river. He also said that people are doing so because of helplessness and it is not their mistake.“I do not like sharing pictures of dead bodies. The country and the world are sad to see the pictures but the pain of those who left their loved ones on the banks of river Ganga should also be understood. The mistake is not theirs. The responsibility is not collective but that of the central government,” the Congress MP tweeted in Hindi. Earlier on Thursday (May 20) too, Gandhi had tweeted on the issue saying that the “Corpses that remain buried in the sands of Ganges says that the Modi system remains buried in the same sand,” targeting the Centre over the dead bodies that were found in the river.Also read | 'PMCries': Rahul blames govt for Covid impact on economy, vaccine shortageDaily death toll in India increased rapidly during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in the country. Initial news reports about bodies, suspected to be of Covid-19 patients, found in the river in Bihar’s Buxar district emerged on May 10. As of May 12, the number of bodies recovered from Ganga in Buxar district increased to 82, HT had reported earlier. Similarly, many bodies were also discovered in the state of Uttar Pradesh, causing panic among the locals.On May 16, hundreds of shallow graves were found along the banks of river Ganga in the Prayagraj district in Uttar Pradesh. Almost 1,000 bodies were either found floating in the river or buried in shallow graves along the river bank in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh between May 10 and 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-centre-s-responsibility-rahul-gandhi-on-bodies-of-covid-victims-found-in-ganga-101621776661791.html
23-05-2021||India||Ten more NDRF teams rushed to Odisha as Cyclone Yaas approaches||Ten more NDRF teams are going to be airlifted to Odisha by Sunday night in addition to the existing 22 as the Indian Meteorological Department said that very severe cyclonic storm Yaas is likely to make landfall between Paradip port of Odisha and Sagar Islands of West Bengal on the evening of May 26 with a wind speed of 155-165 kmph during landfall. NDRF director general SN Pradhan said 10 teams of NDRF deployed in Gujarat for tackling post-disaster relief work in the wake of Cyclone Tauktae would be airlifted to Odisha by tonight. Already 18 teams of NDRF have been deployed in Balasore, Bhadrak, Kendrapara, Jagatsinghpur and Mayurbhanj district while another 4 teams are on standby.IMD director general Mrutyunjay Mohapatra said the well-marked low pressure over the Bay of Bengal had turned into a depression and would intensify into a cyclonic storm by Monday morning. The wind speed will reach 40-50 kmph on May 24 and further gain pace on May 25 when the speed will be 50-60 kmph. On May 26, the wind speed will be 90-100 kmph. During landfall, the wind speed will be 155 to 165 kmph with gusts upto 185 kmph.Under its impact, high waves along the Odisha coast are likely to rise up to 6 metres between May 23 evening to May 26 night along the coast of Odisha from Gopalpur to Chandipur.Northern Odisha districts of Balasore and Bhadrak are likely to witness heavy to very rainfall and some places may receive over 20 cm rainfall. Apart from Balasore and Bhadrak, Jagatsinghpur and Kendrapara are likely to be most affected while Cuttack and Mayurbhanj districts would receive heavy rain.Odisha’s Development Commissioner-cum-Special Relief Commissioner Pradeep Kumar Jena visited Balasore district and held a meeting with officials to review the preparedness for Cyclone Yaas. Jena who held a meeting over video conference with BDOs, Tahasildars, Block Education Officers, police personnel and Rural Drinking Water Supply and sanitation officials ordered that people staying in thatched huts, houses on the shoreline and makeshift dwellings be evacuated to 18 cyclone shelters and 29 schools.To ensure that the Covid-19 infection does not spread among the evacuees, sufficient masks and sanitisers have been stocked in the cyclone shelters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ten-more-ndrf-teams-rushed-to-odisha-as-cyclone-yaas-approaches-101621776843479.html
23-05-2021||India||Health minister Harsh Vardhan asks yoga guru Ramdev to take back his recent statements on allopathic medicines||Health minister Harsh Vardhan on Saturday in a tweet asked yoga guru Ramdev to take back his recent statements on allopathic medicines and modern medicine saying that his statements have hurt the sentiments of the doctors who are fighting the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.संपूर्ण देशवासियों के लिए #COVID19 के खिलाफ़ दिन-रात युद्धरत डॉक्टर व अन्य स्वास्थ्यकर्मी देवतुल्य हैं।बाबा @yogrishiramdev जी के वक्तव्य ने कोरोना योद्धाओं का निरादर कर,देशभर की भावनाओं को गहरी ठेस पहुंचाई।मैंने उन्हें पत्र लिखकर अपना आपत्तिजनक वक्तव्य वापस लेने को कहा है। pic.twitter.com/QBXCdaRQb1The health minister in a tweet said, "The doctors fighting the Covid-19 pandemic day and night, are akin to deities for the people of the nation. Baba @yogrishiramdev has hurt the sentiments of the nation, as it disrespected the corona warriors.""I have written a letter to him asking him to withdraw his objectionable statement," the health minister further added. The health minister in his letter also mentioned that he had spoken to Ramdev regarding his statements. Harsh Vardhan said that Ramdev terming allopathic practices as 'tamasha' and 'bekaar' were unfortunate. He highlighted that the current recovery rate and low case fatality rate in India is due to the efforts of the doctors. Harsh Vardhan also highlighted that given the current pandemic situation in the country it was unfortunate that Ramdev chose to question the abilities and methodology employed by doctors battling the Covid-19 pandemic. He also remined the yoga guru that Polio, SARS, tubercolosis, chicken pox and Ebola vaccines were also treated by vaccines which were possible due to allopathy. He pointed out in his letter that Ramdev is a public figure and since what he says is widely followed by the public the yoga guru should exercise caution before making any such statement. 'Your statements hurts doctors and weakens our resolve in this battle against the pandemic," the health minister said. Harsh Vardhan also shared images of the letter written to Ramdev, who in a viral video, running on social media platforms since Saturday, was seen saying that allopathic medicines have failed to cure Covid-19 and more people have died due to administration of allopathic medicines than shortage of medical oxygen or lack of hospital beds. Ramdev's statements were met with harsh criticism by the Indian Medical Association (IMA) who wrote strongly-worded letter to the Centre and also demanded the yoga guru's arrest for his statements. The Patanjali Trust on Saturday evening issued a statement saying that Ramdev's words were taken out of context and he bears no 'ill-will' towards allopathic practices or modern medicine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-minister-harsh-vardhan-asks-yoga-guru-ramdev-to-take-back-statement-101621775459091.html
23-05-2021||India||Over 75% of states want shorter option B for CBSE class 12 exams: Govt sources||More than 75 per cent states want the option B for CBSE class 12 exams where the examinations will be conducted in the same schools where the students are enrolled, government sources said after a national consultation was arranged on Sunday, chaired by defence minister Rajnath Singh Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank and other Union ministers, including Smriti Irani, were present at the meeting. State education ministers and chief ministers of several states were also present at the meeting.Given the present pandemic situation, the Central Board of Secondary Education on April 14 postponed the class 12 exams and said it would notify the final dates by June 1. After the consultation, the government said that it will stick to this schedule and the dates will be announced before June 1.CBSE 12th board Exams 2021 Live Updates: No decision, States suggestion soughtAs the result of CBSE class 12 exams decide the admission of students to higher education institutes in India and abroad, this examination can not be done away with, the Board has noted. At the same time, the safety the security of the students and teachers should not be risked. Hence, the Board has explored two options.Under option A, exams of only 19 major subjects will be conducted at the designated centres. The assessment of the minor subjects can be done based on the performance of the major subjects.Under this option, the entire process will take three months, including pre-exam activities and the declaration of results. The Board said that this option is possible only when such a period of three months is clearly and safely available to the Board. August could be a convenient time but if the situation is not conducive to conduct the exams safely, then this option will not be viable.Under option B, exams will be held at the schools itself and instead of three hours, the papers will be of 90 minutes and questions will be of multiple option types. The students will have to appear in one language and three elective subjects only and the results of the 5th and 6th subjects will be assessed based on the performance in these subjects.However, the examinations will have to be conducted twice under this option based on when the situation in a state is conducive for holding the examinations. If a student can not appear in the first phase due to any Covid-related matter, a second chance will be offered. Question papers will not have to be printed in this option and so logistics will remain limited.Going by option A, the pre-exam activities will take place from Jule 1 to July 31 and the exams will be held from August 1 to August 20. The time slot between August 21 and September 5 has been slotted for evaluation while the tentative result date will be September 20.If the Board finalises Option B, then the pre-exam activities will take place between July 10 and July 15. The 1st phase of the examination will take place between July 15 and August 1, while the second phase will take place between August 5 and August 26. Evaluation will take place on a daily basis and will be completed by August 30 and the result will be announced on September 5.However, this is only a tentative schedule and the final one will depend on the inputs of the states. Some states have also wanted a mix of the option A and B, but all states have agreed that the class 12 examinations should be conducted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-75-of-states-want-option-b-for-cbse-12-exams-govt-sources-101621774647254.html
23-05-2021||India||MHA’s Covid-19 directives, decision on international air travel: What to keep an eye on in coming week||India’s daily count of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) have witnessed a relative decline in recent days, even as the daily death toll continues to hover around the 4,000-mark, also exceeding the mark on several days. In the last 24 hours, there were 240,842 positive cases and 3,741 related deaths, the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) dashboard showed on Sunday morning. India’s infection tally thus stands at 26,530,132, including a death toll of 299,266, as per health ministry’s data.With the daily Covid-19 caseload amid a relative fall, here are a few things to keep an eye on for next week:(1.) MHA’s national directives on Covid-19: Towards the end of every month, the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) issues fresh nationwide Covid-19 directives or extends the existing ones till the end of next month. In continuation with this, the MHA will most likely issue directives for June in the coming days.Also Read | No restriction on movement of people and goods under new Covid guidelines: MHA(2.) Decision on international air travel: International air travel was suspended last March, along with domestic travel, as the first nationwide Covid-19 lockdown was announced to break the chain of transmission. While domestic flights resumed last May, the ban on international flights remains.Also Read | International passenger flights’ suspension extended till May 31(3.) India’s Covid-19 death toll to cross 300,000: Daily deaths due to the viral disease have seen unprecedented highs in recent days. India’s death toll due to the infection will cross the 300,000-mark, making it only the third country, behind the United States (589,703) and Brazil (448,208) to cross this mark.(4.) States to decide on extending curbs: Earlier in the month, several states extended restrictions like lockdowns, mini-lockdowns, corona curfews etc. till May 31 or June 1. Respective state governments are now likely to decide on whether to extend the restrictions any further or not.Also Read | 'Lockdown in Delhi extended by 1 week; unlocking from May 31 if...': Kejriwal(5.) Farmers to intensify protests: Agitation against the three contentious farm laws has continued despite concerns that the three protest sites in Delhi may emerge as Covid-19 hotspots. The farmers have, however, said they will intensify their movement from May 26, on the completion of six months of the protests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mhas-covid-19-directives-decision-on-international-air-travel-what-to-keep-an-eye-on-in-coming-week-101621772461980.html
23-05-2021||India||Haryana farmers' convoy leaves for Delhi to join protest at Delhi borders||Defying the Covid lockdown, thousands of farmers gathered at Haryana’s Karnal and Panipat toll plazas before leaving in a convoy for Delhi in a build up to the May 26 protest, organised to mark six months of the agitation against the three controversial farm laws enacted by the centre.The gatherings at the two toll plazas, where many farmers were not seen wearing masks or maintaining social distance, was also aimed at dispelling the notion that their protest, which started at several points on Delhi borders in November last year, was dying out amid the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. On May 20, a large convoy of farmers from Punjab's Taran Taran had left for Delhi and a prominent farmer leader has promised that convoys of around 2,000 vehicles each will leave every week from one district of the state for Delhi to participate in the May 26 protests.Farmers have been protesting at five sites in large camps near Delhi’s borders: Singhu, Ghaziabad, Tikri, Dhansa and at Shahjahanpur on the Rajasthan-Haryana border, demanding the rollback of three laws passed in September last year to lift restrictions on trade in farm produce. They have described the laws as pro-corporate. However, the government has maintained that the laws are for their benefit.The continued protests have also sparked concerns of a potential spread of Covid-19 infections, but the farmers have refused to give up the agitation, citing it as a matter of livelihoodHaryana Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) president Gurnam Singh Charuni led the farmers’ convoy of SUVs, cars and bikes from Karnal's Bastara toll plaza, where they had gathered since Sunday morning."This new movement of farmers will not only give strength to the agitation but will also give a message to those claiming that the agitation is likely to end due to a decline in the number of farmers at Delhi borders," said a farmer leader pleading anonymity.With the harvesting of wheat finished and transplantation of paddy to start from June 15, farmers’ unions from Haryana are reaching out to villages for the past one week to ensure a huge gathering of farmers from the state reaches Delhi borders on May 26.So far, 11 rounds of talks between 40 farm leaders and the government have failed to resolve the crisis. Both the government and farmers called off the series of discussions on January 22, citing lack of progress. The unions have rejected the government’s offer to freeze the laws for 18 months. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of over 40 protesting farmer unions, which is spearheading the protests, has written to the prime minister on Friday, urging resumption of talks.Gurnam Singh Charuni, who is also a member of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, slammed Haryana police’s action on farmers. "Farmers were beaten up and the police also registered FIRs against farmers but why did they not book the cops who had assaulted women farmers and damaged our vehicles," he asked.He was referring to over 350 farmers getting booked for rioting, unlawful assembly and obstructing any public servant in discharge of public functions among other charges after they protested outside a temporary Covid hospital in Hisar, where Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar was scheduled to inaugurate the hospital earlier a few days ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-farmers-convoy-leaves-for-delhi-to-join-protest-at-delhi-borders-101621772327952.html
23-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Maharashtra to begin 24-hour Covid-19 vaccination 'soon', says CM Uddhav and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.'Maha to begin 24-hr vaccination once production increases in June’: UddhavMaharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said that the vaccination for people aged between 18-45 years is temporarily suspended due to lack of smooth supply of vaccines. Read moreState banks not asked to withdraw funds from foreign currency accounts over Cairn dispute: CentreThe Centre has not asked state-owned banks to withdraw funds from foreign currency accounts abroad over the Cairn legal dispute, the finance ministry said on Sunday, condemning such reports as baseless. Read moreMoving Covid shots to India could benefit UK children, suggests vaccine advisorAn expert on the immunisation advisory committee for the UK government has suggested that moving Covid-19 vaccines from Britain to countries like India could benefit children back home. Read more'If you don’t feel comfortable, it’s time for Ricky to go': Clarke explains how he fought to keep Ponting in Aus teamPonting played 16 Tests under Clarke between 2011 and late 2012 and scored 1,015 runs. His average was 37.59, which is comparatively less than his career average. Read moreZack Snyder's Army of the Dead ending explained: Did Huma Qureshi's Geeta live or die?Army of the Dead, the new zombie-heist film from director Zack Snyder, partially hinges on a mission to locate and rescue Geeta, played by Huma Qureshi. Read moreLeave what you’re doing and see the world from the eyes of a corgi. Clip is aww-worthyThere are many videos on the Internet that capture the life of doggos from the point of view of their humans. But have you ever seen the world from a doggo’s view? WatchIrfan Pathan’s ‘first 2k run after Covid’ is fitness inspo this Sunday Proud of your 10 minutes workout? Irfan Pathan calls it his ‘fitness going down’ as he gives health enthusiasts a glimpse of his 2kms run in ‘nearly 11 minutes’, his first after recovering from Covid-19. Read more‘WHO supported India with 170 MT of essential Covid medical supplies’: OfficialDr Poonam Khetrapal Singh, Regional Director, World Health Organization (WHO) South-East Asia said WHO has supported India with 170 MT of essential medical supplies. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-maharashtra-to-begin-24-hour-covid-19-vaccination-soon-101621766276406.html
23-05-2021||India||‘Ensure timely evacuation’: PM Modi at cyclone Yaas review meeting||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has directed officials to ensure timely evacuation of citizens involved in off-shore activities ahead of cyclone Yaas making landfall on the eastern coast on May 26, within a fortnight of cyclone Tauktae battering the western coast resulting in deaths of at least 66 people onboard an offshore barge near Mumbai coast.The PM held a meeting on Sunday to review the preparedness to deal with cyclone Yaas and asked officials to work in close coordination with states to ensure people are evacuated safely from high-risk areas, and outages of power supply and communication network are kept to a minimum and restored swiftly, a statement from the prime minister’s office (PMO) said.He also asked for coordination and planning with state governments to ensure no disruption is caused to Covid-19 treatment and vaccination in hospitals.The meteorological department has said that a low pressure area has already developed in northern Andaman Sea which is likely to intensify into a depression by May 23 morning and turn into a very severe cyclonic storm by May 24 and will likely cross north Odisha and West Bengal coasts by May 26 evening with the wind speed ranging between 155-165 kmph and gusting to 185 kmph. Cyclone Yaas is likely to cause heavy rainfall and storm surge in the coastal districts of the two states while making a landfall anywhere in between north Odisha coast and Sundarbans.The Prime Minister has called for involving various stakeholders like coastal communities and industries and directly reaching out to them and sensitising them, the PMO said.“PM directed officials that advisories and instructions on do’s and don’ts during the cyclone [should] be made available in easy to understand and local language to citizens of the affected districts,” the PMO release said.The review meeting comes in the backdrop of the tragedy brought about by Cyclone Tauktae, that on Monday evening sank Barge P-305, which housed personnel engaged in maintenance work of an offshore oil drilling platform of the state-run oil and gas major ONGC, off the Mumbai coast. The death toll on the barge rose to 66 with the recovery of six more bodies on Saturday, while nine personnel are still missing, the Navy said yesterday.The ministry of home affairs is reviewing the situation ahead of the arrival of another cyclone and is in touch with the state governments, union territories and the central agencies concerned. It has already released the first instalment of the state disaster response fund (SDRF) in advance to all states, and the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has pre-positioned 46 teams equipped with boats, tree-cutters, telecom equipment in five states and a Union territory. In addition, the Indian Coast Guard has also been alerted and the navy is gearing up as they continue to be on standby, the PMO noted.Union home minister Amit Shah along with senior government officials and representatives from the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA), secretaries from ministries of telecom, power, civil aviation and earth sciences attended the virtual meeting.Last year on May 20, south West Bengal was hit by cyclone Amphan in the Sunderbans with a wind speed of 155–165 km per hour and gusting up to 185 km per hour. It had killed 98 people while pummelling through six districts. Weather experts say that Cyclone Yaas’s landfall could coincide with the spring tide on the full moon, also on May 26, making the storm surge higher and devastating.In the villages of Bengal’s coastal districts, officials are making announcements about the approaching cyclonic storm and the evacuation process that could start on May 25. Fishermen were being asked not to venture out into the sea. District officials said that the number of cyclone and relief shelters, where evacuated people would be kept, was being increased by roping in school and college buildings so that social distancing could be maintained.The Odisha government on Saturday ordered all district collectors of coastal areas to bring people living in mud houses to cyclone shelters with Covid-19 appropriate behaviour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ensure-timely-evacuation-pm-modi-at-cyclone-yaas-review-meeting-101621766279459.html
23-05-2021||India||Oxygen Express surpasses 15,000 tonnes in deliveries, Assam latest to get consignment||The railways has so far delivered 15,284 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) in 936 tankers to various states through its Oxygen Express service, the national transporter said on Sunday.So far, 234 Oxygen Expresses have completed their journey and brought relief to various states, while nine loaded Oxygen Expresses are currently on the run with more than 569 tonnes of LMO in 31 tankers.The first Oxygen Express to Assam with 80 tonnes of LMO in four tankers reached Assam on Sunday.The delivery of LMO by Oxygen Expresses to Karnataka has crossed the 1,000-tonne mark, the railways said in a statement.On an average, Oxygen Expresses have been delivering over 800 tonnes of LMO to various states each day now.Oxygen relief by Oxygen Expresses reached 14 states -- Uttarakhand, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Haryana, Telangana, Punjab, Kerala, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Assam.So far, 614 tonnes of oxygen has been offloaded in Maharashtra, nearly 3,609 tonne in Uttar Pradesh, 566 tonnes in Madhya Pradesh, 4,300 tonnes in Delhi, 1,759 tonnes in Haryana, 98 tonnes in Rajasthan, 1,063 tonnes in Karnataka, 320 tonnes in Uttarakhand, 857 tonnes in Tamil Nadu, 642 tonnes in Andhra Pradesh, 153 tonnes in Punjab, 246 tonnes in Kerala, 976 tonnes in Telangana and 80 tonnes in Assam.The railways has mapped different routes with oxygen supply locations and keeps itself ready with any emerging need of states. States provide tankers to the Indian Railways for bringing LMO.Oxygen Expresses started their deliveries 29 days back on April 24 in Maharashtra with a load of 126 tonnes. Its first service began when empty tankers left Mumbai on April 19 to be loaded with the life-saving gas.Criss-crossing the country, the Indian Railways is picking up oxygen from places such as Hapa, Baroda, Mundra in the West and Rourkela, Durgapur, Tatanagar, Angul in the East and then delivering it to states of Uttarakhand, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Haryana, Telangana, Punjab, Kerala, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Assam in complex operational route planning scenarios.The average speed of these critical freight trains is way above 55 kmph in most cases over long distances. Running on high priority Green Corridor, with a highest sense of urgency, operational teams of various zones are working round the clock in most challenging circumstances to ensure that oxygen reaches in fastest possible time frame, . Technical stoppages have been reduced to one minute for crew changes over different sections.On Saturday, in a first, an Oxygen Express train piloted by an 'All Female Crew' arrived in the Bengaluru with 120 tonnes of medical oxygen from Jamshedpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oxygen-express-surpasses-15-000-tonnes-in-deliveries-assam-latest-to-get-consignment-101621764310373.html
23-05-2021||India||3 held for smuggling whale vomit worth ₹7 crore in Gujarat||Police have arrested three persons for allegedly smuggling ambergris, or whale puke which used in making cosmetics, worth about ₹7 crore, police said on Sunday. Ambergis is a waxy substance produced in the intestines of sperm whales. According to police, the three men were apprehended on Saturday after they brought the expensive substance from Junagadh for a client in Ahmedabad.The police recovered from them 5.35 kg of the ambergris valued at around ₹7 crore in the international market, they said. "We have arrested three persons for smuggling 5.35 kg ambergris. They are part of a network in which so far 10 people are suspected to be involved. Further investigation into the case is underway," Deputy Commissioner of Police (Zone VII) Premsukh Delu said. The accused were booked under provisions of the Wildlife (Protection) Act after the forensic team said that prima facie, the product found in their possession was ambergris, he said. The accused were identified as Sharin Cheda (from Junagadh), Khalid Ofi (from Bhavnagar) and Sumer Soni (from Udaipur in Rajasthan), he said. The accused procured the product from Junagadh and came to Ahmedabad to deliver it to someone whom the police have identified, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-held-for-smuggling-whale-vomit-worth-rs-7-crore-in-gujarat-101621763770339.html
23-05-2021||India||Adar Poonawalla is the only official spokesperson, Serum Institute says after executive director criticises govt||Serum Institute of India's CEO Adar Poonawalla is the only official spokesperson of the company, the world's largest vaccine maker has clarified after its executive director Suresh Jadhav was found to be a little critical of the government's vaccination drive. Speaking at an online health summit, Jadhav said the government began vaccinating people from multiple age groups without taking into account the availability of stocks. He also said that the government did not consider WHO guidelines, as reported by news agency PTI.Serum Institute has made it clear that this is not the view of the company. "On behalf of our CEO Adar C Poonawalla, I want to inform you that this statement is not issued on behalf of Serum Institute of India Private Limited and the Company completely dissociates itself from this statement. It is reiterated that this is not the view of the company at all," Prakash Kumar Singh, director of government and regulatory affairs at Serum wrote in a letter to the health ministry, PTI reported.Gavi hopeful Serum Institute will resume supplies for COVAX by 3rd quarterIt also mentioned that Adar Poonawalla is the only official spokesperson of the company."Serum is committed to maximise its Covishield production and it stands shoulder-to-shoulder to strengthen the government's fight against Covid-19," the letter said.Jadhav said the government started the vaccination drive knowing well that it did not have adequate stock. Initially, 300 million people were to be administered the vaccine for which 600 million doses were required, but before that target was reached, the vaccination drive was opened to non-priority groups, including people above the age of 45 years and then people above the age of 18 years, he said. "That is the greatest lesson we learnt. We must take into account the availability of the product and then use it judiciously," he said.Serum CEO Adar Poonawalla defends vaccine export, says ‘daily cases were at an all-time low’The government in April approved advanced payment of ₹4,500 crore to both Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech so that they can ramp up their production. Out of this ₹4,500 crore, Serum received ₹3,000 crore from which Adar Poonawalla thanks PM Modi and finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman.Serum Institute has been the centre of several controversies in recent days. After the Centre allowed state governments and private hospitals to directly procure vaccines from the manufacturers, Serum courted controversies over selling the vaccines at different rates to the Centre and the state governments. After the rates were revised, Adar Poonawalla said in an interview he was under immense pressure and was facing unprecedented aggression over the vaccine.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/adar-poonawalla-is-the-only-official-spokesperson-serum-institute-says-after-row-over-executive-s-comment-101621763459875.html
23-05-2021||India||Jammu court denies bail to illegal Rohingya immigrants||A local court in Jammu on Saturday rejected the bail applications of two illegal Rohingya immigrants, who had prepared fake documents of Indian citizenship, saying their release could cause law and order problems and threat to national security.Additional sessions judge Jammu, Kishore Kumar, also said the court was surprised how Abdul Ghafoor and Ashiqur Rahman fraudulently procured Indian passport, Aadhar card, Pan card, bank accounts etc suggesting presence of an elaborate racket producing fake documents.Bahu Fort police had registered an FIR under sections 419, 465, 467, 468 and 471 of the Indian Penal Code against the accused after learning that two Myanmar natives were residing at Bathindi’s Rahim Nagar in Jammu assuming Indian identity. They were also booked under Section 12(b) of the Passport Act and 14-A of the Foreign Act.During police investigations Ashiqur Rahman was found to be in possession of a Pan card, a driving license, an Aadhar card, birth certificate and ₹140,000 in cash apart from passbooks and cheque books for J&K bank, the State Bank of India (SBI) and the Punjab National Bank (PNB). The other accused, Abdul Ghafoor, was found in possession of cheque book, passbook and ATM card of IDBI bank, a pan card, two Aadhar cards apart from ₹2.20 lakh in cash. None of the accused could satisfactorily explain how they procured these documents, police had said in its report.It further claimed that both the accused were residents of Myanmar who entered India illegally and were residing in Jammu, impersonating as citizens of India.After hearing both the sides and going through the police report, the court observed that the accused were involved in a serious offence.“It is very strange that they succeeded in securing a pan card, driving license, Aadhar card, passports etc and were operating their bank accounts in different Indian banks. The accused were involved in a very serious offence which carries punishment up to life imprisonment. It appears that there is a well established racket for procuring and preparing such types of documents for the accused persons and others,” the court said.It observed that the release of the accused could create many law and order issues and cause a threat to the security of the nation. “It cannot be ruled out that these accused persons may be involved in criminal as well as militancy activities in the state,” the court said, giving out reasons for rejecting their bail pleas.220 illegal Rohingya immigrants are already lodged in Hiranagar sub jail in Jammu’s Kathua district under an exercise by the Jammu & Kashmir administration to repatriate them to their native land on the instructions of the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-court-denies-bail-to-illegal-rohingya-immigrants-101621763394841.html
23-05-2021||India||India conducts highest number of Covid tests in 24 hours||India conducted the highest number of Covid-19 tests till date in the last 24 hours, the ministry of health and family welfare (MOHFW) said on Sunday. The overall case positivity rate, number of samples that test positive in comparison to the total number of samples tested, has declined to 11.34%, it said.“With more than 21.23 lakh tests conducted in the last 24 hours, highest tests conducted in a single day. The daily positivity rate has declined to 11.34%,” the health ministry tweeted.As per the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) data, a total of 32,86,07,937 samples have been tested for Covid-19 up to May 22, of which 21,23,782 samples were tested on Saturday.This is the fifth consecutive day of more than 20 lakh tests being conducted in the country, the ministry added.This news of declining positivity rate comes amidst the country recording less than 3 lakh cases daily for the seventh consecutive day. India recorded 2,40,842 cases on Sunday, taking the country wide tally to 26,530,132.The number of Covid-19 fatalities are also on the decline. With 3,741 deaths being reported in the last 24 hours, the national mortality rate now stands at 1.13%. The 10 states and union territories of Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Delhi, Kerala, West Bengal, Uttarakhand and Andhra Pradesh account for the 73.88% of the deaths recorded on Sunday. Maharashtra with 682 deaths leads the count, At 451 fatalities Karnataka is following closely behind.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-conducts-highest-number-of-covid-tests-in-24-hours-101621758463237.html
23-05-2021||India||'170 MT of additional essential medical supplies sent to India': WHO official||The World Health Organisation (WHO) has sent 170 MT of essential medical supplies including oxygen concentrators, testing kits, hospital beds, PPE kits and auxiliary health facilities near existing hospitals, said regional director, WHO South-East Asia.The United Nations agency had stepped up its relief efforts in India last month, when the second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic was on its peak.WHO has supported India with 170 MT of essential medical supplies - Oxygen concentrators, testing kits, hospital beds, PPEs & auxiliary health facilities near existing hospitals. These supplies are expected to help in filling critical gaps: Regional Director, WHO South-East Asia pic.twitter.com/oImhcaGafEOver 2,600 WHO experts working in India on other health programmes have been deployed to respond to the pandemic, the U.N. agency had said.Oxygen and other medical supplies from several countries including UAE, Qatar, Kuwait, Russia etc landed in the country last month.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageLast week, officials familiar with the matter told said India has received a significant part of relief material from the European Union (EU), 17 EU member states, Norway and Iceland, including items worth more than Euro 100 million, apart from the Euro 2.2 million emergency funding by the EU to WHO’s management of patients and strengthening testing capacities in India.India, reeling under the deadly second wave of Covid-19, has recorded 26,530,132 infections and 2,99,266 deaths so far. On Sunday, the country recorded 2,40,842 new cases, according to Union health ministry. As many as 3,741 fatalities were recorded in the same time span, the ministry added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/170-mt-of-additional-essential-medical-supplies-sent-to-india-who-official-101621754224596.html
23-05-2021||India||Goa panel for vaccinating lactating mothers on priority before '3rd Covid wave'||Goa should prioritise vaccination of lactating mothers having children below two years of age among the 18-45 age group with an aim to safeguard both mother and child against a potential third wave of Covid-19 pandemic, an expert committee has recommended to the government.“Mothers that are lactating were earlier not in the recommended category of persons to be vaccinated, but now we know it is definitely a positive [thing] to vaccinate all lactating mothers because they would pass on the antibodies to the babies and also be in a position to handle the baby, if god forbid the child tends to become Covid positive later on. So this is one age group we suggest to the task force to put on priority basis,” Dr Harshad Kamat, a member of the expert committee said.The expert committee of doctors from the government and the private sector, set up to advise the government on the third wave, has also recommended that those suffering from co-morbidities related to kidney, liver and diabetes are also prioritised for vaccination within the 18-44 age group.“We have requested the DHS that two groups should be given priority for vaccination within the 18-44 age groups: Lactating mothers (whose children are less than 2 years old) and those who have diabetes or renal failure or liver problems within the 18-44 age groups since they can develop severe symptoms,” Dr Jagdish Cacodcar also a member of the task force, said.The expert group anticipates that the speculated third wave of the pandemic could arrive around September and impact a greater proportion of children. While the group's recommendations are in line with several individual experts who have said that a potential third wave of the disease could impact more kids, the Central government's principal scientific advisor K Vijay Raghavan had earlier this month said that the next wave may not take place equally at every place if adequate precautions were taken.“We saw that last year, 7-8% children were positive and across the last three months, around 8-12% infected were children below the age of 18 years. So the percentage was going up. What was in single digits [during the first wave] has reached 11-12%. The same is the pattern all over India as those under 20 years of age comprise 12% of all confirmed Covid cases,” Dr Cacodcar added.The group has also recommended increasing the number of facilities to treat children since they are yet to be vaccinated against the disease.“It's not that the 3rd wave will affect only the children, but the proportion of children [among the infected] is likely to increase,” Dr Cacodcar added.“By what proportion will Covid-19 cases among the children rise is dependent on infectivity of the organism, schools reopening, people’s complacency and resumption of crowded gatherings,” Dr Cacodcar said. The Covid-19 pandemic has so far infected nearly 145,000 people in Goa and claimed 2,341 lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-panel-for-vaccinating-lactating-mothers-on-priority-before-3rd-covid-wave-101621758025926.html
23-05-2021||India||Odisha activists seek quarantine centres for Covid-19 hit tribal groups||With Covid-19 cases exploding among Dongaria Kondh and Bonda tribals, two of the 13 particularly vulnerable tribal groups (PVTG) of Odisha, a hoard of activists and poets have urged chief minister Naveen Pattnaik to start quarantine centres exclusively for the affected tribals near their villages.At least 85 members of the particularly vulnerable tribal group of Dongria Kondhs, living in Niyamgiri hills of Rayagada have tested positive for Covid-19 over the last one week. While 23 Dongria Kondh tribals had tested positive last week, in the last 3 days another 62 tested positive in Kalyansinghpur and Bissamkatak block of Rayagada district during an intensive testing drive. Similarly, 12 Bonda tribals living in Malkangiri district have tested positive for Covid-19.Expressing their concern that the Bondas and Dongria Kondhs are very vulnerable to Covid, the activists led by Lingaraj Azad of Niyamgiri Surakhya Samiti and social activist Prafulla Samantara in an open letter to Patnaik, said that the government should take special and adequate measures to protect the life of the two communities."The current protocol of home quarantine will not work within Adivasi communities because of different ideas about privacy and isolation in Adivasi cultures. Home quarantine measures within Adivasi areas are not the right way to contain the spread or break the chain of the pandemic," the activists said.The activists urged that instead of naso/oropharyngeal swab testing, saline swirl and gurgle methods of testing should be done twice every week for the Dongria and Bonda people. "Door to door surveys must be done by a team of trained local volunteers for regular monitoring of symptoms and reporting to quarantine centres for any suspected cases,” the letter said.The activists suggest that all the tribes in the area are given an adequate number of 3-layered masks, PPE kits, medicines and vitamins as safety precautions.“Further, home remedy treatment measures as prescribed by the ministry of Ayush also be considered as part of the treatment protocol wherever needed," they demanded, adding that all PHCs located in Adivasi areas are upgraded on a war footing and equipped with sufficient medical equipment, medicines, person power and necessary infrastructure.Samantra and other activists demanded that Dongria and Bonda families must be provided with a special livelihood relief package as compensation for their agriculture and minor forest produce which they cannot sell in the haats/local markets which are non-functional due to prolonged shutdown/lockdown.The SC/ST welfare department meanwhile started a ₹100 a day wage compensation for all PVTG persons testing positive for Covid for the next 14 days. As per the PVTG Covid management strategy, a health kit is being provided to every family of infected PVTG households, valued at Rs. 2,500.It also brought out a standard operating procedure (SOP) for Covid management in PVTG areas in which door to door surveillance will be done by rural health care activists and volunteers with the support of community resource persons. As per the SOP, persons with Covid symptoms should be isolated and tested and if an outbreak or cluster of cases is reported from an area, small containment zones may be set up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-activists-seek-quarantine-centres-for-covid-19-hit-tribal-groups-101621756359079.html
23-05-2021||India||Cyclone Yaas: At review meeting, PM asks for timely evacuation of people from high-risk areas||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday held a meeting to review the preparedness for Cyclone Yaas, which will make landfall on India's eastern coast on May 26. The cyclone is expected to hit the land between Sundarbans in West Bengal and north Odisha.Union home minister Amit Shah along with senior government officials and representatives from National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA), secretaries from ministries of telecom, power, civil aviation and earth sciences attended the virtual meeting.At the meeting, the Prime Minister directed senior officers to work in close coordination with states to ensure the safe evacuation of people from high-risk areas and timely evacuation of those involved in off-shore activities.He also spoke about the need to ensure that time duration of outages of power supply and communication network are minimum, and if there is an outage, it is restored swiftly. PM Modi further directed officials that advisories and instructions on dos and dont's about the cyclone be made available in easy to understand and local language to residents of the affected districts.With Odisha and West Bengal bracing for cyclonic storm Yaas, the Indian Army on Saturday informed that it has arranged columns and engineer task forces are on standby for rescue and relief operations.West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee and Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik had earlier reviewed the preparedness for the cyclonic storm in high-level meetings with officials in their respective states on Saturday.Mayurbhanj, Bhadrak and Balasore districts are likely to be worst affected by the cyclonic storm, Umashankar Das, Deputy Director of India Meteorological Department (IMD) in Bhubaneswar said on Sunday."We are expecting that the well-marked low-pressure area over the east-central Bay of Bengal will concentrate into a depression during next 12 hours and by tomorrow (May 24), it is going to be a cyclonic storm and will continue to move in the north north-westward direction and on May 26 it will reach Odisha, West Bengal, and Bangladesh coast," Das was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The head of Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC) in Kolkata Dr Sanjib Bandyopadhyay had earlier advised the fishermen of West Bengal not to venture into the sea from May 23 evening, and advised those who are in the deep sea to return to the coast by May 23 morning, in view of Cyclone Yaas.Yaas will intensify as it heads towards northwards, and will make the landfall as very severe cyclonic storm, the IMD has said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-holds-meeting-on-cyclone-yaas-landfall-expected-on-may-26-101621753141780.html
23-05-2021||India||IAS body condemn Chhattisgarh collector for slapping man, CM transfers him||The Indian Administrative Services (IAS) Association has condemned the behaviour of Surajpur’s collector a day after a video of the officer slapping a man for violation of Covid-19 norms in Chhattisgarh went viral on social media.“The IAS Association strongly condemns the behaviour of collector Surajpur, Chhattisgarh. It is unacceptable & against the basic tenets of the service & civility. Civil servants must have empathy & provide a healing touch to society at all times, more so in these difficult times,” the IAS Association tweeted on Sunday. IAS Association is an organization of serving and retired members of the Indian Administrative Service.Collector Ranbir Sharma slapped a man and threw his mobile phone to the ground and encouraged cops to beat him up with sticks. After the video of the incident went viral drawing condemnation of his actions, Sharma apologised on Saturday, while trying to rationalise his conduct."Today a video is viral on social media in which I am shown slapping a man who was out during [the] lockdown. I sincerely apologize for today's behaviour. I never had any intention to disrespect or belittle the person in the video," Sharma said in a video statement before adding, "He was riding a bike and was speeding. The man also misbehaved with officials."However, taking a strong exception to the incident, Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel on Sunday transferred the officer and attached him to the state secretariat as a joint secretary. Gaurav Kumar Singh was appointed the new district collector of Surajpur in his place."An incident of Surajpur district collector Ranbir Sharma misbehaving with a young man has been brought to my attention by social media. This is extremely unfortunate and condemnable. No such incident shall be tolerated in Chhattisgarh. Have given instructions to remove collector Ranbir Sharma with immediate effect," a rough translation of Baghel's tweet, posted in Hindi, read.In a similar case of abuse of power seen last month, West Tripura District’s collector Shailesh Kumar Yadav had to relinquish office following allegations that he was guilty of gross misconduct. On the night of April 26th in Agartala, Yadav stopped a marriage, being held in violation of Corona night curfew, insulted the bridegroom and even slapped the priest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ias-body-condemn-chhattisgarh-collector-for-slapping-man-cm-transfers-him-101621751100239.html
23-05-2021||India||6 cadres of rebel outfit DNLA killed in encounter with security forces in Assam||Six cadres of Dimasa National Liberation Army (DNLA), a rebel outfit in Assam, were killed by security forces in an encounter on Sunday.According to police officials, the cadres were killed in Karbi Anglong district early on Sunday and a large cache of arms and ammunition was recovered from their possession.“In an early morning operation by Assam Police and Assam Rifles, 6 DNLA terrorists were neutralized in Dhansiri area of Karbi Anglong. Large cache of arms and ammunition was also recovered,” special director general of police, Assam Police, GP Singh tweeted.Teams from Karbi Anglong and Dima Hasao district police were involved in the operation. Further details on the identity of the DNLA cadres and the circumstances around the encounter were awaited.Formed two years ago, DNLA aims to form a sovereign and independent nation for people from the Dimasa tribe. Naisodao Dimasa is the chairman of the outfit and Kharmindao Dimasa is the home secretary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-6-cadres-of-rebel-outfit-dnla-killed-in-encounter-with-security-forces-101621747659825.html
23-05-2021||India||Petrol prices close to ₹100-mark in Mumbai after 12th hike in 20 days||After a day’s pause, fuel rates jumped again for the twelfth time in 20 days after petrol and diesel prices were raised by 17 paise and 27 paise a litre on Sunday respectively, making petrol costlier by ₹2.81 and diesel by ₹3.34 a litre since May 4. The hike has also driven the price of a litre of petrol one step closer to Rs100 mark in Mumbai.Petrol's price in Mumbai has reached ₹99.49 per litre, while the pump price of diesel in the financial capital is now ₹91.30 a litre. Fuel rates are costliest in Mumbai among the major metros. In national capital Delhi, Petrol price surged to ₹93.21 per litre and diesel to ₹84.07 a litre. While fuel rates in Delhi are the benchmark for the entire country, retail prices of the two fuels differ from place to place because of variations in state taxes and local levies.Petrol has, however, crossed the ₹100 mark in several cities and smaller towns, particularly in Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh. Some of the cities selling the fuel over ₹100 per litre include Ratnagiri, Parbhani, Aurangabad, Indore, Bhopal, Gwalior, Jaisalmer, Ganganagar and Banswara.Retail prices of petrol and diesel are moving up despite a fall in international oil prices this week. Benchmark Brent crude fell by over 4.34% on Friday at $66.44 per barrel from $69.46 a barrel on Monday. State-run fuel retailers align fuel prices in India with international rates on the previous day.There are two key reasons for higher petrol and diesel rates – taxes on auto fuels and a spike in international oil prices. To be sure, much of the retail price is taxes. For instance, in Delhi, on May 16, central taxes accounted for 35.5% of petrol’s price, and state taxes, 23%. On diesel, central levies are over 38.2% while state taxes are about 14.6%. Through 2020, as global crude prices fell, the central government raised excise duty on the fuel to shore up its finances. States too followed suit -- with revenues hit on account of the pandemic.International oil prices and rupee-dollar exchange rate impact domestic pump prices as India imports over 80% crude oil it processes and pays in dollar. Brent crude closed 2.04% up at $66.44 a barrel on the last trading day (Friday) this week.According to executives working in state-run oil marketing companies, pump prices are also high because companies are recovering their past revenue losses like the one suffered for 66 days since February 27 when prices were not raised because of assembly elections in four states and one Union territory.During the 66-day pause on rate hike, state-run retailers had reduced petrol and diesel rates by 77 paise and 74 paise a litre, respectively in four small steps. But, the entire gains to the consumers were quickly reversed in the first four consecutive rounds of rate hikes starting from May 4.HT wrote on April 28 that fuel rates would incrementally move north after polls as state-run fuel retailers were losing about ₹3 a litre on fuel sales due to higher international oil rates at that time apart from depreciation of rupee against the dollar.The government deregulated the pricing of petrol on June 26, 2010 and diesel on October 19, 2014. Accordingly, state-run retailers are free to change pump prices every day. Public sector retailers — IOC, Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL) and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd (HPCL)— controls almost 90% of the domestic fuel retail market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/petrol-prices-close-to-rs-100-mark-in-mumbai-after-12th-hike-in-20-days-101621746981812.html
23-05-2021||India||Chhattisgarh CM Baghel transfers senior IAS officer seen on video slapping man||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel on Sunday transferred a senior IAS officer seen on a video slapping a man, and throwing his phone on the ground for allegedly violating safety norms during the ongoing Covid-19 lockdown, in Surajpur district.Also Read | Chhattisgarh IAS officer slaps man, smashes phone; says sorry after video emerges"An incident of Surajpur district collector Ranbir Sharma misbehaving with a young man has been brought to my attention by social media. This is extremely unfortunate and condemnable. No such incident shall be tolerated in Chhattisgarh. Have given instructions to remove collector Ranbir Sharma with immediate effect," a rough translation of Baghel's tweet, posted in Hindi, read."Misbehaviour by an official is unacceptable. I regret this incident," the chief minister added.किसी भी अधिकारी का शासकीय जीवन में इस तरह का आचरण स्वीकार्य नहीं है।इस घटना से क्षुब्ध हूँ। मैं नवयुवक व उनके परिजनों से खेद व्यक्त करता हूँ।The Chhattisgarh government issued orders, appointing Raipur district panchayat's chief executive officer, Gaurav Kumar Singh, the new collector of Surajpur.The IAS Association also condemned the incident, tweeting: "We strongly condemn the behaviour of collector Surajpur, Chhattisgarh. It is unacceptable and against the basic tenets of the service and civility. Civil servants must have empathy and provide a healing touch to society at all times, more so in these difficult times."The IAS Association strongly condemns the behaviour of Collector Surajpur, Chhattisgarh.It is unacceptable & against the basic tenets of the service & civility.Civil servants must have empathy & provide a healing touch to society at all times, more so in these difficult times.After the video of the incident went viral, evoking widespread anger against the official, Sharma apologised, saying in a statement that he never had any intention to "disrespect or belittle the person in the video." Claiming to be a Covid-19 survivor himself, and that his mother was still battling the infection, Sharma accused the man of overspeeding and misbehaving with officials.He also said that contrary to media reports, the man is not a minor, and is, in fact, 23-years-old.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-cm-orders-removal-of-ias-officer-caught-on-camera-slapping-youth-101621745754865.html
23-05-2021||India||On-the-run Olympic hero Sushil Kumar, wanted in murder case, arrested||Wrestler Sushil Kumar, absconding after being accused of murder, was arrested from West Delhi's Mundka by the special cell of Delhi Police on Sunday.The 38-year-old Olympic medalist was on the run since the murder of 23-year-old national champion wrestler Sagar Dhankar following a brawl at New Delhi's Chhatrasal Stadium on May 4. The police have also arrested his associate Ajay Kumar, who was also absconding.Wrestler Sushil Kumar has been arrested by a team of Special Cell, says Neeraj Thakur, Special CP-Special Cell pic.twitter.com/cIbyulgsbk"A team of special cell led by inspector Shivkumar, inspector Karambir and supervised by ACP Attar Singh has arrested two wanted persons, namely Sushil Kumar and Ajay (Sunil)," said Pramod Kushwaha, DCP, special cell.The arrest comes a day after the family of Sagar Dhankar alleged that they got life threats from Sushil Kumar and demanded that he be charged with and arrested for murder.Also Read: Wrestler Sagar Dhankar’s family seeks Sushil Kumar’s arrest“I handed over Sagar to Mahabali Satpal, who runs Chhatrasal Akhada when he was just 15. He considered Sushil Kumar his guru. Both Satpal and Sushil promised to train my son well. My son had won many medals before he was killed after a brawl with Sushil Kumar and his associates,” Sagar's father Ashok said.“We got to know after Sagar’s death that he was staying in a flat outside the stadium. He was planning to quit the stadium and shift to Narela, where a former coach was giving training. Sushil and his associates abducted Sagar from his house in Model Town to teach him a lesson for bad-mouthing the former in front of other wrestlers,” he added.The Delhi Police had issued a look out circular against the wrestler two weeks ago after coming across the video footage in which Kumar and others can be seen assaulting wrestler Dhankad and his friends Sonu and Amit Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wrestler-sushil-kumar-wanted-in-a-murder-case-arrested-by-delhi-police-101621743629399.html
23-05-2021||India||Diabetes, cold oxygen, unwashed masks: AIIMS doctor lists reasons for rise in black fungus cases||A doctor experrt has said that Covid-19 patients with uncontrolled diabetes who have been treated with steroids, tocilizumab, and put under ventilation have a high risk of contracting mucormycosis or black fungus infection. Dr P Sarat Chandra, senior neurosurgeon at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in New Delhi said that patients within six weeks of Covid-19 treatment are at the highest risk of contracting black fungus."One of the most important reasons is uncontrolled diabetes, systemic use of steroids along with tocilizumab, patients on ventilation and taking supplemental oxygen. Within six weeks of Covid treatment if people have any of these factors they are at the highest risk of black fungus," said Dr Chandra who also teaches neurosurgery at AIIMS.The doctor also said that administering cold oxygen is dangerous and anti-fungal drug Posaconazole has to be given to patients who are deemed particularly vulnerable to the disease. Chandra’s cautionary words reiterate the concerns raised by many health experts."Giving cold oxygen directly from the cylinder is very dangerous. Anti-fungal drug Posaconazole can be given to high-risk individuals to reduce incidents of black fungus," Dr Chandra said.He also cautioned against the long term use of face masks, advising N-95 masks be discarded after five uses and cloth masks to be washed daily. He also advised against storing masks in damp places, as after prolonged usage it runs the risk of catching fungus."Prolonged use of masks to be discouraged as any cloth mask kept in a damp place with prolonged use may catch fungus. Cloth masks should be washed every day and N95 masks preferably discarded after five uses. “Rotatory use of masks is preferred, that is, keep one mask for every day of the week and rotate them again,” he advised.States like Rajasthan, Gujarat, Punjab, Haryana, Karnataka, Odisha, Telangana and Tamil Nadu have declared mucormycosis a 'notifiable' disease under the Epidemic Diseases Act after a letter from the Centre.On Friday, AIIMS Delhi Director Dr Randeep Guleria said that Covid-19-linked infection has claimed more than 7,000 lives in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/diabetes-cold-oxygen-unwashed-masks-aiims-doctor-lists-reasons-for-rise-in-black-fungus-cases-101621743246767.html
23-05-2021||India||India's Covid-19 toll nears 300,000-mark with 3,741 deaths in 24 hours; 240,842 fresh cases take infection tally to over||India recorded 2,40,842 new cases of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, taking the total tally of cases to 26,530,132, according to Union health ministry update on Sunday morning. 3,741 fatalities were also recorded in the same timespan; the pandemic has claimed 2,99,266 lives so far, according to health ministry’s update at 8am.The Union health ministry said on Saturday that the second wave has been stabilising all over the country, with seven states reporting 10,000 cases and six states recording 5,000-10,000 cases, a day. More than 93 districts have also been reporting a decline in positivity rate.However, states all over the country have been extending ongoing curbs in a bid to keep the infection from spreading. Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Karnataka, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Nagaland, Mizoram, Meghalaya, Arunachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Goa have re-imposed curfew-like restrictions after active cases showed a decline, as governments work to ramp up vaccination efforts.Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, UP, Punjab, and Delhi continue to report a high number of Covid-19 deaths, according to health ministry.In the second wave of the pandemic, the huge surge in cases have overburdened the underdeveloped rural healthcare infrastructure. Niti Aayog member (health) Dr VK Paul, said during a press briefing on Saturday that infected individuals have to be connected to the formal healthcare system for advice even if they are being treated under home isolation. He also emphasised on the need to bolster ambulance service and increase the number of beds in a timely manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-covid-19-toll-nears-300-000-mark-with-3-741-deaths-in-24-hours-240-842-fresh-cases-take-infection-tally-to-over-26-53-million-101621740032512.html
23-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Covid-19 vaccine centres being run by BMC to be shut today||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Mumbai: Covid-19 vaccine centres being run by BMC to remain shut todayCoronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccination centres run by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation Municipal Corporation (BMC) will remain shut on Sunday, the civic body said in a tweet on Saturday. The vaccination centre details for Monday will be shared by the BMC on their Twitter handle on Sunday, the tweet added. Read more.5 of a family including 3 kids hacked to death in Ayodhya villageFive of a family including a couple and their three children (all below 10 years) were brutally hacked to death over a property issue in an Ayodhya village on Saturday midnight, senior police officials said on Sunday morning. Read more.Tiny Lithuania stands up to China as Europe freezes investment pact with BeijingLithuania, a tiny nation of less than 2.8 million people, said on Saturday it was quitting the China-led "17+1" grouping with central and eastern European states and asked other countries to walk out of the forum set up by China in 2012 to forge ties and expand its influence. Read more.Watch: Jacqueline Fernandez shows what doing Yoga with cats looks likeJacqueline Fernandez is a Yoga girl through and through. The actor makes sure that Yoga and stretches are a part of her daily routine and that is why she can perform some of the most difficult asanas like it is no big deal. Watch here.'He's been in terrific form in the IPL': Monty Panesar names India's 'X-factor' in WTC final against New ZealandFormer England spinner Monty Panesar is in favour of the ICC preparing a pitch for the World Test Championship final that is suitable for Test match cricket. India will first face New Zealand in the WTC final scheduled to take place at the Ageas Bowl in Southampton from June 18, before taking on hosts England in a five-Test series in August. Read more.Arjun Kapoor says he would 'just keep watching' Saif Ali Khan while working as AD in Kal Ho Naa HoActor Arjun Kapoor has revealed that he is a 'huge fan' of actor Saif Ali Khan and would 'just keep watching him' during the filming of Kal Ho Naa Ho. Arjun worked as an assistant director to Nikkhil Advani in the film. It released in 2003 and also starred Shah Rukh Khan and Preity Zinta. Read more.Security forces bust terrorist hideout in Poonch, arms & ammunition recoveredSecurity forces busted a terrorist hideout near the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch district on May 22 and seized some arms and ammunition. The recovery includes an AK-56 assault rifle, a magazine with 30 rounds, and two Chinese pistols and a magazine. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-covid-19-vaccine-centres-being-run-by-bmc-to-be-shut-today-101621739922278.html
23-05-2021||India||International footballer works at brick kiln, Jharkhand govt promises help||For the second time in less than a year, 20-year-old Sangita Kumari, who has represented the country twice internationally in football, has felt the brunt of the Covid-19 pandemic. Working as a daily wager in a brick kiln in Jharkhand’s Dhanbad, Sangita says that the less repressive lockdown has at least allowed her to earn, even if it is a meagre amount for every brick she moves.“Last year was really bad, there was a strict lockdown, and one could not even work for a daily wage,” she said. “There was nothing one could do, and we needed the money.” She added that this time she was able at least find work. “I get paid for every brick I lift. In a day, I make between ₹200-150.” She works from around 10 in the morning to 5 pm in the evening.Sangita’s plight was highlighted on Saturday as the National Commission of Women (NCW) wrote to the chief secretary of the state and the All India Football Federation to intervene in her case and provide financial assistance to the sportsperson. “The condition of Ms. Sangita does bring embarrassment and shame to the country which should be addressed at priority. Ms Sangita has not just represented India on an international platform, but she has also represented Jharkhand in the world due to her own hard work and consistency,” the commission said.According to the state sports secretary Pooja Singhal, the government is ascertaining the details to provide Sangita all necessary financial support and the district magistrate of Dhanbad has been told to take stock of the situation.A state government official, on the condition of anonymity, said he believes that Sangita should be eligible for at least one of the scholarships offered to sportspersons. “Sangita’s case surely merits support, she is awaiting national trials,” the official said.The official added that the government had last year identified seven sportspersons and supported them during the pandemic by housing them in Ranchi. “The chief minister (Hemant Soren) takes a personal interest in sports, and even held the portfolio as a minister until a few months ago. A new sports policy is awaiting the state cabinet nod which will ensure that sportspersons can be provided accident and health insurance. It has been delayed due to Covid-19.”The official added that the priority was to ensure that Sangita receives the financial and structural support needed to pursue her career in the field. “The government will look into it and take action within the next couple of days. She is young, it is not a job that she needs, but the wherewithal to pursue the sport,” the official said.Sangita said she had applied for a scholarship last year, but no money had come through so far. “I did apply, but have not received any amount yet,” she said. She has one younger brother, one elder brother and three elder sisters. Her father, she added, has only partial vision, leaving the siblings to take care of the household.Sangita, however, is not expecting much. “Last year, the government interceded by providing ration,” she said. “The people who live nearby, some of our neighbours were the ones who got together and helped.”This has not stopped the young woman from chasing her dream though. Every morning at 6:30, she heads to the local stadium to practice. “I practice from around 6:30 to 9:30 and then head to the kiln to work. There is no morning curfew time, so I get to play,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/international-footballer-works-at-brick-kiln-jharkhand-govt-promises-help-101621737421562.html
23-05-2021||India||PM Modi to hold meeting on Cyclone Yaas today; Army task forces on standby: 10 points||The states along India's eastern coast are gearing up for Cyclone Yaas, which is expected to make a landfall between north Odisha and Sundarbans (in West Bengal) on May 26. This comes days after Cyclone Tauktae - strongest in the Arabian Sea in over two decades - wreaked havoc on the western coast and claimed dozens of lives at a barge off Mumbai.Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a meeting with senior government officials and representatives from National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA), secretaries from telecom, power, civil aviation and earth sciences ministries on Sunday to review preparations for the approaching cyclone, news agency ANI reported. Home ministers Amit Shah and other ministers will also attend the meeting.A 22-member team of Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force (ODRAF) has been pressed into services by the state government in the wake of Cyclone Yaas. It has been asked to stockpile essential items and relocate people to local wind shelters.Here are the latest developments on Cyclone Yaas ahead of its landfall:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-yaas-trains-to-odisha-cancelled-army-task-forces-on-standby-101621735857657.html
23-05-2021||India||Defence minister Rajnath Singh to chair crucial meeting today on Class 12 exams||Union defence minister Rajnath Singh will hold a high-level meeting on Sunday to decide the fate of pending Class 12 Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) board examination. On April 14, the education ministry had cancelled Class 10 board examination and delayed the Class 12 board examination amid rising Covid-19 cases in India, saying that the situation will be reviewed on June 1.Sunday's meeting will be attended by state education ministers and secretaries. According to documents seen by Hindustan Times, the Centre has proposed to the states to conduct the Class 12 examination for major subjects only.Nearly 20 of the 174 subjects offered to Class 12 students are considered major subjects by CBSE. Board students take a minimum of five and a maximum of six subjects out of which four are considered major subjects.The education ministry had invited suggestions from various stakeholders that could also be taken up at the meeting.While a large section of students and parents have been demanding that the exams be cancelled, school principals have varied views on the possible options that can be explored."Under present circumstances, I visualize JEE type of online exams, through the involvement of the NTA. It would require setting up of the centres as per different locations, involving schools as self-centres or perhaps both. It would be a humongous exercise but can be at least considered for all major subjects opted for by a large number of students," said Sangeeta Hajela, Principal, DPS Indirapuram.Rajat Goel, Director, MGR School Rohini, said, the assessment exam can be conducted online by the CBSE or the school may be allowed to plan an internal exam."There can be another part of aptitude test that can be made an intrinsic part of question papers as it will help them in passing the entrance exams of various universities or colleges," he said.These exams are usually conducted in February-March every year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defence-minister-rajnath-singh-to-chair-crucial-meeting-today-on-class-12-exams-101621731478134.html
23-05-2021||India||Fuel emergency on flight with Indian boxing team||A SpiceJet flight, ferrying the Indian boxing team to the United Arab Emirates for the Asian Boxing Championship 2021, was forced to circle around Dubai for 45 minutes on Saturday and allowed to land only after it declared a fuel emergency.While government officials said the delay was caused due to confusion over the flight plan in Iran’s capital Tehran, there were reports that the airline took 37 people (31 passengers and six crew members) on board after declaring the flight to be a cargo one. The airline denied this.“An Indian boxing contingent travelled on a SpiceJet flight from Delhi to Dubai today. The aircraft has reached Dubai safely and all passengers have cleared immigration. The flight and passengers carried proper documentation. The flight was not filed/categorised as a cargo flight and this information is absolutely wrong and is denied,” an airline spokesperson said.News agency PTI reported that there may have been some confusion over the approval of the contingent’s visit. The contingent included six-time world champion Mary Kom and one of India’s best boxers Amit Panghal.Interestingly, Boxing Federation of India subsequently issued a statement, thanking the Indian ambassador to the UAE for his assistance. The statement added that the team flew “under the air bubble arrangement”, with “all relevant permissions” and that two rounds of RT-PCR tests were conducted on the team -- at the airport and the hotel. Ajay Singh, chairman and managing director of SpiceJet, is also the president of the Boxing Federation of India.The airline said it was a regular passenger flight under the air bubble agreement with UAE. The UAE has barred all travellers from India since April 25 -- except UAE nationals, diplomatic passport holders and official delegation letter holders -- due to the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.The flight, SG142, was not allowed to enter the Iran airspace because the local air traffic control did not find the flight in their system, government officials said requesting anonymity.“The issue began when the Tehran air control declared that they did not have SG142’s flight plan in their system and asked the pilot to connect with the UAE airspace. The Dubai traffic control informed the same [that they did not have the flight plan] and said they couldn’t land unless there was an emergency,” said the officials cited above said.The flight was allowed to land in Dubai after it declared a fuel emergency, the officials said.“While the aircraft was holding in the UAE airspace, the Ras-Al-Khaimah traffic control [in UAE], after learning about the aircraft’s fuel asked SG 142 to land in Dubai,” DGCA officials familiar with the matter said.According to people familiar with the matter, the flight was yet to be cleared for return to Delhi till Saturday evening.Separately, the DGCA has also decided to conduct an inquiry into the matter. “We will conduct an inquiry. We will take appropriate action, only based on a detailed inquiry, which will take some time,” Arun Kumar, director general of DGCA, said.With inputs from agencies||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fuel-emergency-on-flight-with-indian-boxing-team-101621723293530.html
23-05-2021||India||420 doctors died during second covid wave: IMA||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) said on Sunday that at least 420 doctors across the country have succumbed to the Covid-19 infection during the second wave of the pandemic. Nearly one fourth of these deaths have been reported from Delhi, it added.Some of the prominent doctors who have succumbed to viral disease include former health minister and physician AK Walia, renowned cardiologist and former head of IMA Dr KK Agarwal and gastroenterologist Dr RK Himthani.According to the IMA registry, while Delhi-NCR accounted for 100 deaths of doctors, Bihar recorded 96 and Uttar Pradesh 41. During the first wave of Covid, 747 doctors died.The IMA started maintaining a registry after the Centre said it had no data on the number of doctors who died in the line of duty during the first wave“1076 as on 19.05.2021. That is the number of Indian doctors who have sacrificed their lives so far in the fight against Covid...,” said Dr Rajan Sharma, former head of the IMA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/420-doctors-died-during-second-covid-wave-ima-101621722988367.html
23-05-2021||India||Private donations pour in as India battles pandemic||From software giants in California to face shield makers from the UK, and the Indian diaspora to a Buddhist group — the Narendra Modi government has received aid to fight Covid19 from a wide range of private donors, government data shows. They have supplied medical oxygen infrastructure, life-saving drugs and even infrared thermal scanners over the past few weeks.The data, reviewed y HT, shows that American companies such as Salesforce, Eli Lilly, Bloom Energy and Thermo Fisher Scientific, Swiss major Roche, UK-based Virustatic Shield Ltd and Canada’s PRACSNS are among the list of international donors.Amazon, Virgin Atlantic, Indian communities in New Zealand, Oman and the UK, a Buddhist order known as Chinese Diligent Buddhists of Master Yunyi and Indian corporate majors such as Reliance Industries, Infosys, Bajaj group, ITC and Tata Group have also extended help in this crisis, according to the government records.The international donors have so far provided more than 6,000 oxygen concentrators, one million rapid antigen kits, more than 50,000 vials of life-saving drugs such as tocilizumab and over 100,000 packs of baricitinib. New Delhi also received 400 ventilators, 200 oxygen cylinders, four oxygen plants, 2,370 oxygen masks, 2,870 nasal cannula and 10,480 pulse oximeters among other items, the data shows.The government has waived off basic customs duty and health cess on import of medical oxygen, oxygen-related equipment and ventilators until July 31, 2021. Covid-19 vaccines, remdesivir and its API are exempted from basic customs duty while corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities now include funds spent on makeshift Covid-19 hospitals, temporary care facilities, awareness campaigns and public outreach programmes to promote vaccination.All non-monetary donations from the private sector to the Centre are being coordinated and provided with end-to-end support by the government’s think tank Niti Aayog.“Private sector, both Indian and International, has been at the forefront of fight against the second wave of covid pandemic. The private sector donors including industries, multinational companies, chambers of commerce and industries, voluntary agencies, and generous individual donors have all come together in this fight,” said Niti Ayog CEO Amitabh Kant.Official data shows Salesforce has donated 2,200 oxygen concentrators and 10,000 pulse oximeters; Indian communities in the UK and Oman have given 708 oxygen concentrators, 2,370 nasal cannula and oxygen masks, 480 pulse oximeters and 30 oxygen concentrators, the data shows.Documents accessed by HT show PerkinElmer sent antigen test kits, ThermoFischer Scientific donated viral transport mediums (VTMs) and disposable PPE components, while Virustatic Shield Ltd gave face shields and Indo Swiss Chambers of Commerce sent face masks.USIBC, Amazon, Bloom Energy, SNJ Charitable Trusts, NongHyup Bank, Indo Thai Chamber of Commerce, Virgin Atlantic and PRACSNS are among those who contributed oxygen-related equipment, while the Buddhist organisation gave 76 oxygen concentrators.About 100 private organisations have contributed so far and an official said that more Covid-related donations were on their way.Indian corporate majors, too, have extended help. The Tata Group helped in setting up Sardar Patel COVID Care Centre and Hospital and imported 14 cryogenic containers for oxygen, among other things. The Bajaj Group installed four oxygen plants in rural hospitals, and are installing oxygen plants in some key government hospitals in western India among other activities.“Reliance Industries is providing over 1,000 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen per day. They have organised airlifting of 24 ISO containers from Saudi Arabia, Germany, Belgium, The Netherlands and Thailand, and are adding 500 MT of transportation capacity for liquid oxygen,” an official document said.“Infosys is helping Karnataka government to scale up the call centre operations, Raytheon Technologies has donated oxygen concentrators, Escorts is setting up a 1000 bed hospital in Faridabad, DCM Shriram is setting up 7 PSA oxygen generation plants at district hospitals in Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh, Honda Motorcycle & Scooter India and Hero MotoCorp are setting up 100 beds hospitals each, Microtek is importing 2000 oxygen concentrators, Venkateshwara Wires, Man Structurals, Balaji Industrial and Basant Fiberteck together have donated 500 beds to COVID Centre at Jaipur,” the official document added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/private-donations-pour-in-as-india-battles-pandemic-101621721678760.html
23-05-2021||India||Covid situation stabilising, focus on improving it: Govt||The overall Covid-19 situation in the country appears to be stabilising and the government will work towards ensuring further improvement, the Union health ministry said on Saturday, even as it clarified that children are not immune from the infection, but the severity of the disease in this age group is lower than that in adults.“There are only seven states that are reporting more than 10,000 cases and six states with 5,000-10,000 cases. Six states are reporting a high number of deaths. These are Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, UP, Punjab and Delhi,” said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, Union health ministry, during a press briefing.There are more than 93 districts where declining case positivity is being noted, he added.The statement comes as India’s tally of Covid-19 cases climbed to 26,528,515 on Saturday, with 240,566 new cases. The toll due to the disease rose to 299,309 with 3,734 fresh fatalities.Niti Aayog member (health) VK Paul said: “It is not that children are affected less by the infection; our sero-survey shows antibody prevalence in children to be between 10 and 17%. We also know that children can transmit the infection to others. When children do get the infection, the symptoms are mild most of the time. Fortunately, a very small percentage of the children need to be hospitalised.”He added that there was already a protocol in place for treating infected children that must be followed.Paul also said there was no need to stop breastfeeding after receiving the vaccine against Covid-19. “Now, lactating women can get the vaccine. But, there is a myth that breastfeeding should be stopped for a day or two after vaccination. This is not true. Breastfeeding should be done as usual; it should not be stopped. This is not part of any advisory.”About the surge in cases in rural areas, Paul said: “This time, the rural areas have also been affected. Given this, the jahan bimar, wahan upchar slogan becomes more important. Even those who are recovering at home should be connected to the health system for advice and it has to be ensured that those in need of hospitalisation are able to get ambulance, beds in a timely manner.”Asked about vaccine wastage, the health ministry said Covishield wastage has reduced from 8% on March 1 to 1% now, while Covaxin wastage decreased from 17% to 4% in the same period.The ministry also addressed concerns regarding the rising cases of mucormycosis or black fungus in Covid patients. Paul said the availability of Amphotericin-B, the key drug to treat the deadly disease, is now being increased and the ministry is in touch with five additional manufacturers. “The possibility of mucormycosis (also known as black fungus) increases when the blood sugar levels are uncontrolled. It is essential for people to control this. There is also a role of steroids; steroids are wonder drugs that can save lives. But if the use is not rational – if it is given before time, given for a longer duration, prescribed in higher doses than required, taken without need, and given for undue time – it can harm,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-situation-stabilising-focus-on-improving-it-govt-101621721246152.html
23-05-2021||India||Chhattisgarh IAS officer slaps man, smashes phone; says sorry after video emerges||The collector of Surajpur district in Chhattisgarh on Saturday apologised for slapping a man and throwing his phone on the ground for violating Covid-19 safety norms during the lockdown. The collector apologised shortly after a video of him hitting the man went viral on social media, resulting in sharp criticism for his physical assault on the citizen. A coronavirus-induced lockdown is in place in the district.The man was stopped by the collector and a posse of police, an official said.In the video, the man can be seen showing a piece of paper and something on his mobile phone to the collector who takes the device and throws it to the ground.वाकई हद है ये...यकीन नहीं तो ये वीडियो भी देख लीजिये..@SurajpurDist कलेक्टर साहब आपको किस बात की इतनी खीज..लड़का कह रहा, भगवान कसम फ़ोन पे कोई रिकॉर्ड नहीं किया..पर वाह रे दंभ..@bhupeshbaghel @tamradhwajsahu0 @_SubratSahoo @DPRChhattisgarh #lockdown #Chhattisgarh #cgnews https://t.co/GhFmnf1qa4 pic.twitter.com/ZLAdkVlhLoThe senior official is then seen slapping the man and encouraging two policemen who rush to the spot and start hitting the man with sticks.In a statement issued on Saturday, Collector Ranbir Sharma said, "Today a video is viral on social media in which I am shown slapping a man who was out during lockdown. I sincerely apologize for today's behavior. I never had any intention to disrespect or belittle the person in the video."In this pandemic situation, district Surajpur along with the entire Chhattisgarh state has been facing the irreparable loss of lives. We all employees of the state government are striving hard to tackle this problem, he further said in his statement.Sharma said he had recovered from Covid-19 while his mother continued to battle the infection, and asked people to follow Covid-19 norms in place strictly so that the outbreak can be contained.Sharma said the man, contrary to some reports, was not minor but a 23-year-old"He was riding a bike and was overspeeding. The man also misbehaved with officials", the collector said.A police official said the man has been charged under the Epidemic Diseases Act for violating Covid-19 norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-ias-officer-slaps-man-smashes-phone-says-sorry-after-video-emerges-101621715784852.html
23-05-2021||India||DMA demands FIR against Ramdev||The Delhi Medical Association has written to the Daryaganj police station asking them to file an FIR against yoga entrepreneur Ramdev (Ramkrishna Yadav) for defaming allopathy. This comes after a video of the yoga teacher surfaced where he is seen saying that all allopathic therapies against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) have failed and people have died despite getting medical intervention.“The impugned video refers to the modern medical system – allopathy – as tamasha and stupid science on the pretext of failure of the medicines such as (hydroxy)chloroquine, remdesivir, fabiflu and other antibiotic drugs in controlling the spread of coronavirus disease and saving the lives of several people who died due to Covid-19,” the letter to the deputy commissioner of police said.The Indian Medical Association also sent a legal notice to Ramdev, stating, “You... claimed and stated that ‘Allopathy ek aisi stupid and diwaliya science hai’. In the past also, you have been claiming that modern medicine doctors are murderers, in order to sell your so called wonder drug/medicine for Covid-19 cure.”The organisation in a letter to Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan, himself an ENT doctor, has demanded that Ramdev be prosecuted under the Epidemic Diseases Act 1897 or that the minister accept his accusations and dissolve the modern medical facility.The organisation had earlier criticised the minister for being present at an event endorsing Ramdev’s Coronil that was claimed to be the first evidence-based medicine for Covid-19.A release issued by Patanjali Yogpeeth said, “It is clarified that the truncated version of the video is totally out of context… It is necessary to mention that the event was a private event and Swami jee was reading out a forwarded WhatApp message… Swami jee has no ill-will against the modern science and the practitioners of modern medicine… He believes that allopathy is a progressive science; and a combination of allopathy, ayurveda and yoga will be beneficial to everyone during such difficult times.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dmademands-fir-against-ramdev-101621717300293.html
23-05-2021||India||Sero survey in Delhi likely after lockdown||The sixth sero survey in Delhi may resume after the ongoing lockdown is lifted, health department officials said. The survey was launched on April 12 but halted only after two days with the unprecedented spike in daily cases and the imposition of curbs to break the chain of transmission.The government has been carrying out sero surveys to measure the rate of exposure to the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes Covid-19.“The sero survey had to be stopped after two days because of the increasing number of cases. Now, there hasn’t been any discussion on when the sero survey will be completed. It is likely to happen only once the lockdown is lifted. This sero survey will capture the number of people who were exposed to the infection during the current wave,” said an official from Delhi’s health department.A senior district official confirmed the development, stating that the government has given no direction on what is to be done with the samples that were collected for two days in April. “The samples are sent to the labs every day after collection. However, we have not received any guidance on whether the samples will be included with the fresh samples when the sero surveillance resumes,” the official said.The survey followed the protocol followed in the previous round – just over 100 samples to be collected at random from each of the 272 municipal wards in the city. The total sample size was fixed at 28,000. With a portion of population being vaccinated, the survey was also to ask about vaccination history of the participants.The fifth serological survey in Delhi, conducted between January 15 and January 23, showed that 56.13% of the 28,000 people sampled tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sero-survey-in-delhi-likely-after-lockdown-101621717072186.html
23-05-2021||India||BJP to increase Covid-19 relief work, Nadda tells CMs to look after orphaned kids||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda has written to all BJP-ruled states to draft and implement a policy for supporting children who lost both their parents during the Covid-19 pandemic, by May 30, to mark the seventh anniversary of the Union government. Nadda has also mentioned that no public functions will be held to mark the anniversary.“…Unfortunately, the problem (pandemic) is so big that some children have lost both their parents in the pandemic. We are aware of their sorrow. It is now our responsibility to plan and take steps for their future. It is our social responsibility to stand with such children and take care of them,” the letter to the CMs says.The CMs have been asked to take quick steps to create a roadmap for the scheme keeping in view the requirements, circumstances and traditions of the respective states.States such as Delhi, Chhattisgarh, Himachal Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh have also announced that they will take over the responsibility of education and other needs of children orphaned during the pandemic. In HP, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said the government offers Rs. 2500 per child per month as financial assistance for maintenance of such children living with the extended families till the age of 18 years. In Delhi, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said the government will pay ₹2,500 per month till the children turn 25 and their education will be paid for too.The letter also specifies that no public programmes will be held to mark the seven years of the Modi government keeping in view the current state of the pandemic.The BJP-led NDA was elected to power at the Centre for the second term on May 30, 2019 with an unprecedented majority of 303 MPs. Nadda, has urged the cadre in the states to undertake seva or relief work and show gratitude to the people that they gave us the chance to serve them.The party has stepped up its efforts to provide relief materials to those in need and also relaunched its Seva Hi Sangathan (organisation is service) campaign to aid the government’s efforts of encouraging Covid appropriate behaviour.As part of the campaign, Nadda has been interacting with state unit functionaries, members of parliament and national office bearers to take stock of the relief work that is being carried out.According to a party functionary aware of the details, the party has so far set up 3,176 dedicated helplines in districts to help connect people with doctors and direct them on how to seek medical care. “So far 2,629 meetings have been held virtually, which were attended by MPs, MLAs and other public representatives. Under the guidance of the party president, state units have begun organising camps for blood donation and distribution of essentials such as masks and sanitisers,” said the functionary.As per details provided by the party, till May 15, 1,204 blood donation camps have been carried out, visits by cadre were carried out in 1,274 hospitals and social organisations over 64 lakh masks were distributed.The party also claims to have distributed food to over 13 lakh families and ration kits to 6.9 lakh families. It said 1.88 lakh workers have been designated to provide care to the elderly while 6.61 lakh workers are engaged in the overall campaign of Seva Hi Sanganthan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-to-increase-covid-19-relief-work-nadda-tells-cms-to-look-after-orphaned-kids-101621712103516.html
23-05-2021||India||‘Insult to India’: Javadekar slams Kamal Nath for variant remark||Union Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar on Saturday accused Congress leader Kamal Nath of “insulting the nation” by referring to the B.1.617 variant of the coronavirus as the “Indian variant” and said the opposition party has not only been stoking fear and apprehension, but also weakening the fight against the pandemic.Addressing the media, Javadekar said Congress president Sonia Gandhi should explain why her party is engaged in negative politics and why she has not criticised her colleague and former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath’s statement on the variant being Indian.“He called it the Indian corona. And said Hamari Pechaan, Mera Bharat Covid. This is an insult to India. Many other Congress leaders have also done so. The WHO has already clarified that no country’s name has been attributed to any variant,” Javadekar said.To be sure, it has become common practice the world over to refer to mutant strains of the SARS-CoV-2 virus which causes Covid by the location where they are first identified. For instance, one identified in the UK late last year is called the UK variant -- even by Indian government departments. However, the Indian government has been vary particular about ensuring that no one calls the B.1.617 variant, first identified in India, as the Indian variant and even issued a statement in this regard.Nath, while attacking the government over its response to the second wave of Covid-19 had referred to the variant first found in India as the “Indian variant”.Commenting on the letter Gandhi has written to Prime Minister Modi on the procurement of drugs for patients of black fungus, Javadekar said the government has already taken proactive steps to procure the necessary medicines for the over 9,000 patients across the country.In her letter to the PM, the Congress chief said there is an acute shortage of vital drug Amphotericin-B that is required to treat Mucormycosis or black fungus. She also said that since the black fungus infection is not covered under the Ayushmann Bharat scheme that offers free health insurance to the poor, the government should provide relief to a large number of patients who cannot afford the treatment.Javadekar insisted that the opposition has not played a constructive role and instead created doubts about vaccines. “When Covaxin was developed after research in the country they called it the BJP vaccine; now when the vaccine has proved effective, they are spreading doubts and fears that there will be a travel ban because it is not on the list of vaccines that are globally recognised... As far as I know, WHO has not taken any such decision, but the Congress’s statements show the party is insulting the country and weakening the fight against the pandemic,” the minister said.His reference is to the Indian drug regulator’s unprecedented emergency use authorisation granted to Covaxin, in clinical trial mode, before even interim data on the efficacy of the vaccine was available. Subsequently, this interim data did show the vaccine was very effective, but it is still not clear on what basis the approval was given. News reports on Saturday claimed that as countries reopen for travellers, they will look for those vaccinated with vaccines approved either by their regulators or WHO. Covaxin is yet to be approved by WHO, although some reports add that this is largely a procedural issue and will be sorted out soon.Responding to the Delhi government’s demand for more vaccine doses, Javadekar said the Union government is making all efforts to undertake distribution of vaccines to all states. “The 50 lakh (5 million) vaccines that have been provided to Delhi so far were provided by the Union government. It is the Union government that has provided the 20 crore-plus (200-million plus) vaccines in the country and in future also it will continue to do so,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/insult-to-india-javadekar-slams-kamal-nath-for-variant-remark-101621712143824.html
23-05-2021||India||Vaccination needs to be done by Centre: Jharkhand CM Hemant Soren||Even as Covid-19 cases have started declining in Jharkhand, chief minister Hemant Soren says the state can’t let its guard down as uncertainty about the nature of the pandemic remains. In a telephonic interview with Vishal Kant, the chief minister batted for better coordination between the Centre and the states. Edited excerpts:Q) We are in the middle of the second wave of the pandemic. The numbers in Jharkhand have started falling. What is the government’s assessment? Have we crossed the peak?A) Our experience shows there is a lot of uncertainty related to this disease. It keeps going up and down. Now there are more features coming up like black fungus. I think the numbers going down could also be a result of the restrictions we have put in place. So we cannot lower our guard. Overall social distancing, using mask are the best practice to prevent oneself from the disease besides vaccination.Q) As you said vaccination is key to fight this disease. But it’s very slow in the state, especially in the 18-44 age group. What’s the plan ahead?A) There is no denying the fact that there is shortage of vaccines due to supply constraints. Initially, the Centre was doing the procurement and distribution. Then they suddenly left it to the state to procure it for the 18-44 group. That has led to a chaotic situation.States are now going for a global tender. And then there is no parity in pricing for the states and the Centre. But we are still making the best of efforts because the same people would turn around and blame the states if there is a delay in vaccination.Q) Will Jharkhand also float a global tender?A) Yes, its in the process. We will issue it within the next few days.Q) But do you think that would help?A) I am not very hopeful. Even if they do it is going to be a huge burden on states, especially poor states like us. There is no price parity. Spending hundreds of crores would be a huge burden. But we have no choice.Q) Some other states have said the Centre should be taking over the entire vaccination programme. Do you also advocate it?A) Absolutely. I made a similar demand from the UPA platform. And I still think so. It’s not too late. The Centre should be doing all procurement and distribution. They are allocating oxygen, medicines and equipment. Similarly, vaccination needs to be done at the national stage.Q) Centre-state relations often become a talking point. We have seen the conflict even during the pandemic. Your tweet about the PM went viral, with the BJP hitting back. Did you mean to say that such meetings/discussions are not fruitful?A) The basic thing is that there needs to be transparency. I tweeted about the phone call only after news started flashing on TV that he spoke to CMs. We saw the incident of Delhi CM Kejriwal. He was reminded about the protocol of the meeting. But how come what the PM speaks comes in the media. So how do we (states) share what we had to say in such meetings and about the demands of any specific state. My view was that the state governments need to be taken into confidence before taking any decision. Or else there would be problems in implementation. We have the example of what’s happening with the ventilators supplied to states.Q) CM Mamata Banerjee raised the issue of the PM-DMs conference? You were part of it. Do you share similar views?A) I want to clarify that I have no ego hassles to sit there with the DMs. However, such meetings are against the principles of federalism. Have we ever seen any other PM doing that kind of review meeting directly with the DMs. I totally agree that such meetings are done to humiliate us where we have nothing to speak or contribute. Will the Centre be comfortable if I start doing review meetings with the Union health secretary?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccination-needs-to-be-done-by-centre-jharkhand-cm-hemant-soren-101621712147883.html
23-05-2021||India||Congress appoints VD Satheesan as leader of opposition in Kerala||After days of uncertainty and long deliberations, the Congress on Saturday selected senior leader V D Satheesan as the leader of opposition in Kerala legislative assembly.“We will work as a responsible opposition and extend all support to the government in its fight against the pandemic. Fight against communal forces will top the party’s main agenda,” said the new opposition leader.Satheesan (56) takes over the mantle from Ramesh Chennithala, who during his stint took up many popular issues and unearthed several alleged omissions and commissions of the first Pinarayi Vijayan government.The Congress had suffered a humiliating defeat in the recent assembly elections, which saw its strength reduced to 21 in the 140-member house.According to party insiders, the high command’s decision to pick Satheesan is considered a major policy shift in the faction-ridden state unit. The party has also given enough hints that Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president Mullapally Ramachandran will also be shifted. Sensing his imminent exit, the state unit chief has expressed his desire to quit, a party insider said on the condition of anonymity. After poll debacle, many young leaders sought a major operation in the party to check its further slide. Two powerful groups in the party’s state unit, one led by Chennithala and other by former chief minister Oommen Chandy, always called shots.A party team headed by senior leader Mallikarjun Kharge had met all legislators last week to know their opinion. Though some of them supported Chennithala, majority reportedly favoured a change in the party and that helped Satheesan to get the new post, the party insider added.While Chennithala and Mullapally Ramachandran welcomed Satheesan’s elevation, there were reports that Chandy was initially upset with the decision, but he later denied it saying it was only media creation. There are speculations that Chennithala will be given a key party position in Delhi. Congress strongman and member of Parliament from Kannur K Sudhakaran is a top contender for the PCC chief’s post, the party insider said.A five-time legislator from Paravur constituency in Ernakulam district, Satheesan rose through the ranks. Started his political career in student days, he was the vice-president of the state unit and also served as the All India Congress Committee secretary. A good orator, his effective intervention in the House in crucial times was lauded, party leaders said.Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan congratulated the new opposition leader and hailed his statement that the opposition will give full support in the fight against the pandemic. The Muslim League, the second biggest ally in the United Democratic Front, also welcomed Satheesan’s elevation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-appoints-vd-satheesan-as-leader-of-opposition-in-kerala-101621712165925.html
23-05-2021||India||Andhra CM asks Centre to halt direct vaccine supply to private hospitals||Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Saturday asked the Centre to do away with the policy of allowing private hospitals to procure Covid-19 vaccine directly from the manufacturers and taking up vaccination, at the cost of government hospitals.In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the CM said many state governments had taken a decision to vaccinate people, including those in the age group of 18-44 years, free of cost. “However due to insufficient availability of vaccine under both channels of supply, only those who are above 45 years of age are being vaccinated in Andhra Pradesh as they are more vulnerable,” he said.As per the liberalised policy of procurement and pricing of Covid-19 vaccine, private hospitals willing to provide vaccination services could procure vaccine doses directly from the manufacturers, exclusively from the 50% supply earmarked for “other than Government of India” channel.Jagan said this liberalised policy was sending out wrong signals to the people. Due to the price differential offered to them and also the flexibility available to the private hospitals to fix the price of their vaccines, these hospitals are charging as high as ₹2,000 to ₹2,500 for each dose from the public.“This makes these doses one of the costliest in the world and inviting criticism from general public. Vaccine is for a public good and ideally it needs to be given free of cost or at least at affordable rates,” Jagan said.The chief minister said due to lack of enough supply of vaccine to cater to even the 45+ age group completely, there was no possibility of taking up the free vaccination of the 18-44 years for the next few months.“It appears very unreasonable to allow some private sector hospitals to vaccinate people of all age groups at such exorbitant rates. Not only is it a disadvantage to the poorer sections of the society who cannot afford such high cost, but it also creates a situation of black marketing of the vaccine, which administratively is a Herculean task to control,” he said.Jagan said though providing various options to the public to get vaccinated in both the government and private hospitals was a good idea, it was possible only if there was a surplus supply and availability of vaccines. “Since in the present situation, where vaccine supply is very limited, providing this option to the private hospitals, where in they charge an exorbitant price, is socially unacceptable and administratively difficult to monitor,” he said.He appealed to the PM to dispense with the supply of vaccines to private hospitals so that the entire stock was available only to both the central and state governments to take up vaccination of all eligible people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-cm-asks-centre-to-halt-direct-vaccine-supply-to-private-hospitals-101621712186987.html
23-05-2021||India||States extend curbs as surge continues||States across the country on Saturday extended restrictions amid a surge in coronavirus disease (Covidi-19) cases.Tamil Nadu, which recorded 35,873 cases in the last 24 hours, extended the lockdown enforced to check the spread of the pandemic. Chief minister MK Stalin announced that the ongoing lockdown, slated to end on May 24, will continue for another week in the state. Among southern states, Kerala, Karnataka and Telangana have already extended their lockdown, while Andhra Pradesh will continue to have a curfew.The Uttar Pradesh government also extended the partial corona curfew by a week till May 31, chief minister Yogi Adityanath made this announcement at a Covid-19 review meeting here.“The partial corona curfew gave a positive outcome statewide and it has been helping in breaking the chain of infection. The people, too, have been cooperating well. The number of active cases of corona has been falling steadily. Considering this, the government has decided to extend the ongoing curfew till 7am on May 31,” he said. “Vaccination, industrial activities, medical and health-related services and movement, and other important and essential services will continue,” the chief minister added. The state recorded 5,964 cases on Saturday.The Jammu and Kashmir administration also extended the ‘corona curfew’ till May 31 in the wake of a surge in Covid cases. The restrictions were scheduled to end on May 24.“The Corona Curfew imposed in all 20 distts of J&K till 7 am on Monday, 24/5/21 is extended further till 7 am on Monday, 31/5/21. Curfew will be strict except for a few essential services. DCs being given limited flexibility to ensure economic activities do not suffer,” the Department of Information and Public Relations (DIPR) said in a tweet. The region reported 3,408 cases on Saturday.In the Northeast, the Mizoram government on Saturday extended total lockdown in Aizawl and other district headquarters till May 31. Nagaland, Meghalaya and Arunachal Pradesh have extended the restrictions till month end.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-extend-curbs-as-surge-continues-101621710853677.html
23-05-2021||India||Leopard, 2 cubs found dead near Mysuru, poisoning suspected||Bengaluru: A leopard and her two cubs were found dead in the Belavadi Industrial Area, about 12 km from Mysuru city, on Saturday, forest department officials said, suspecting that big cats were poisoned.The mother leopard was about 5 years old and the cubs were around a year old, officials said. Deputy conservator of forests (DCF), Mysuru, Prashanth Kumar said that a half-eaten carcass of a dog was found near the leopard. “It is suspected that the dog was poisoned and kept there to lure the leopard,” Kumar said, adding that the leopard and her cubs might have died after eating the poisoned dog. He said the standard operating procedure stipulated by the National Tiger Conservation Authority in such cases has been followed. The post-mortem was conducted and recorded in the presence of senior officials. “The viscera of the leopard carcasses have been sent to the Institute of Animal Health and Veterinary Biologicals at Bengaluru and the Forensic Science Laboratory in Mysuru. Once the report is available, we will be able to tell the cause of death conclusively. But it is very clear that this is an unnatural death,” Kumar said. The department has registered a case under the Wildlife Protection Act and an investigation has been ordered. A sniffer dog has been engaged to track those who poisoned the dog. “There were no instances of leopard spotting in these areas in recent times and the motive behind the poisoning remains unclear. At the same time, the State Pollution Control Board was asked to take samples of water from a nearby lake to examine if there was a high level of pollution in the lake, which caused their death,” Kumar said. A few days ago, a video of a mother leopard and a few cubs crossing a road had gone viral on social media. Kumar said they were different since the leopards in the video were smaller. The outskirts of Mysuru are an ideal habitat for leopards as the city is surrounded by reserve forests, sugarcane fields and jungles. Leopards are seen stalking cattle and street dogs near the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/leopard-2-cubs-found-dead-near-mysuru-poisoning-suspected-101621711019061.html
23-05-2021||India||Man alleges torture in custody, probe ordered||Bengaluru: Karnataka police have ordered a departmental inquiry after a Dalit man alleged that he was forced to drink urine in custody in Chikkamagaluru district, officials said. The incident took place on May 10 at Gonibeedu police station in Mudigere taluk of the district. The inquiry was ordered after the man lodged a complaint with the Chikkamagaluru superintendent of police (SP). In his complaint, the man alleged that Gonibeedu police took him into custody on May 10 based on an oral complaint by a group of villagers accusing him of creating a discord between a couple in the village. The man said no written complaint was filed against him, but he was kept in the police station from 11 am to 10.30 pm. “Policemen beat me up for a couple of hours. Then they asked another man who was in the lockup to urinate on me. He refused, but he was forced to do it. After that, they made me lick the urine on the floor,” he alleged. Chikkamagaluru SP Akshay M Hakay said that based on the man’s complaint, a case has been registered against the sub-inspector of the police station under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. Hakay didn’t reveal the section under which the sub-inspector has been booked. “Deputy SP of Chikkamagaluru sub- division has conducted a preliminary inquiry into the incident and we have also recorded the victim’s statement. Now we have ordered a departmental enquiry, which will be impartial. If he (the sub-inspector) is found guilty, the official will get maximum punishment,” Hakay said. He refused to divulge the findings of the preliminary investigation. Asked about the action taken against the sub-inspector, Hakey said he has been transferred out of the police station. “We will discuss about his suspension,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-alleges-torture-in-custody-probe-ordered-101621710959000.html
23-05-2021||India||Cong appoints V D Satheesan as leader of opposition in Kerala||Thiruvananthapuram: After days of uncertainty and long deliberations, the Congress on Saturday selected senior leader V D Satheesan as the leader of opposition in Kerala legislative assembly. “We will work as a responsible opposition and extend all support to the government in its fight against the pandemic. Fight against communal forces will top the party’s main agenda,” said the new opposition leader. Satheesan (56) takes over the mantle from Ramesh Chennithala, who during his stint took up many popular issues and unearthed several alleged omissions and commissions of the first Pinarayi Vijayan government. The Congress had suffered a humiliating defeat in the recent assembly elections, which saw its strength reduced to 21 in the 140-member house. According to party insiders, the high command’s decision to pick Satheesan is considered a major policy shift in the faction-ridden state unit. The party has also given enough hints that Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president Mullapally Ramachandran will also be shifted. Sensing his imminent exit, the state unit chief has expressed his desire to quit, a party insider said on the condition of anonymity. After poll debacle, many young leaders sought a major operation in the party to check its further slide. Two powerful groups in the party’s state unit, one led by Chennithala and other by former chief minister Oommen Chandy, always called shots. A party team headed by senior leader Mallikarjun Kharge had met all legislators last week to know their opinion. Though some of them supported Chennithala, majority reportedly favoured a change in the party and that helped Satheesan to get the new post, the party insider added. While Chennithala and Mullapally Ramachandran welcomed Satheesan’s elevation, there were reports that Chandy was initially upset with the decision, but he later denied it saying it was only media creation. There are speculations that Chennithala will be given a key party position in Delhi. Congress strongman and member of Parliament from Kannur K Sudhakaran is a top contender for the PCC chief’s post, the party insider said. A five-time legislator from Paravur constituency in Ernakulam district, Satheesan rose through the ranks. Started his political career in student days, he was the vice-president of the state unit and also served as the All India Congress Committee secretary. A good orator, his effective intervention in the House in crucial times was lauded, party leaders said. Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan congratulated the new opposition leader and hailed his statement that the opposition will give full support in the fight against the pandemic. The Muslim League, the second biggest ally in the United Democratic Front, also welcomed Satheesan’s elevation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-appoints-v-d-satheesan-as-leader-of-opposition-in-kerala-101621710900770.html
23-05-2021||India||Volunteers lead Covid-19 fight in B’luru while braving personal losses||Bengaluru: At a time when Bengaluru, like rest of the country, is battling the surging second wave of Covid-19 pandemic, volunteers from across the city have come forward to help residents while braving personal losses. From providing meals, supplying oxygen cylinders, arranging hospitals beds to burying the dead, the Good Samaritans have made relentless efforts in coming to the aid of scared and scarred city residents. They did all these while battling their own adversities, including losing loved ones to the unprecedented surge of Covid-19 in the past two months. One such volunteer is Anne Morris, who helped in performing the last rites of 16 victims of Covid-19 on May 14, one of whom was her own uncle. She felt anguish that day like never before while volunteering, something that she has been doing since the first wave of the pandemic. “I have been helping to give decent burial to several victims of Covid-19, but when it came to my uncle, there was no one to help me,” Morris said, recalling her uncle’s ordeal. Morris, who is also the curator of the Indian Christian Cemetery, began volunteering with food distribution to migrant workers during the nationwide lockdown when the pandemic hit the country in March last year, before moving to help people with burials when Covid-19 deaths spiked in the second wave. “My uncle needed dialysis and we took him to a private hospital, which charged us more than ₹30,000. It was a daylight robbery and it made me question why I was doing the volunteer work in the first place,” Morris recalled. Besides her uncle, Morris also lost her brother-in-law, another uncle and her godfather to the viral infections, all in the month of May. While undergoing dialysis, her uncle tested positive for Covid-19 and died in a private hospital. Her 52-year-old brother-in-law succumbed to the infection after he was unable to get a hospital bed. “On May 9, after his saturation levels dropped, we approached multiple hospitals. We asked all volunteer groups we knew of, but we couldn’t find him a bed. It was only after five days, we got an ICU bed, but he died soon after he was admitted. By then, his condition had worsened,” she said. Morris said she was upset and anguished after suffering losses. “We helped so many and there was no one to help us. I wondered if I should continue to do volunteer work. But now, I’m back to work. A lot of people need help,” she said. Shahulla Khan, 45, was a third-generation funeral service worker at the Muslim Burial Ground on Mysore Road. According to his family, since the beginning of the pandemic, he had buried more than 300 bodies and even lived in the burial compound itself. He knew several Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) officials, who reached out to him for help in burying bodies, but when he fell ill, there was no one to help, his family said. Khaleel Khan, a relative of Shahulla, said they started looking for a bed when he first complaint of difficulties in breathing. As his saturation level began dropping drastically, the family began making frantic calls, even to the BBMP officials he knew. “We started looking for beds in the last week for April. We couldn’t find any oxygen beds. With help of some volunteers, we were able arrange an oxygen cylinder. We kept him at home on oxygen supply. But we were not able to find more cylinders,” Khaleel said. He added that whenever they called the BBMP officials they knew, they said there were no government beds available. Once his condition deteriorated, the family decided to take a gamble. “We tried several hospitals, but no beds were available. We then took him to a government hospital and told the security guard that we had reserved a bed. Once we were allowed to go in, we pleaded to the doctor, who allowed him to be on the floor with oxygen support,” Khaleel added. Hours later, Shahulla passed away. “Despite helping several families during the pandemic, when the virus caught up with him, he got no help,” Khaleel said. Another volunteer Sagay Raj Ambrose, who has been helping people to find food and oxygen during the pandemic, said he could do little when his younger brother fell sick. “I started volunteering during the first wave of Covid-19. Some told me about a family, where the son was hospitalised and an elderly couple were not able to get food, because they couldn’t get out. With the help of a friend, I delivered ration at their home. It all started there,” said Ambrose, who worked at the Bengaluru international airport. During the second wave, he helped several families in home isolation with ration kits and oxygen cylinders. It was during this time that he got a distressing call. “On May 6, my 45-year-old younger brother Vijay started facing breathing difficulties and his saturation levels were dropping. As soon as I got the call, I tried to get to the hospital, but nothing was working out,” he said. Ambrose said besides the non-availability of beds, hospitals were also demanding Covid-19 test reports before admitting patients. “Since his situation was critical, we didn’t have the time for a test, but with the help of a friend, we got a CT scan done. The scan said his condition was really bad,” said Ambrose. Unable to find an ICU, even with the help of other volunteers, he took his brother to a private hospital, where he was kept in the emergency room. “They gave him oxygen and an injection as well. We kept trying to move him to an ICU, but before we could get it, he passed away,” Ambrose said, wearing a brave face while recalling his brother’s story. Ambrose continues to be a volunteer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/volunteers-lead-covid-19-fight-in-b-luru-while-braving-personal-losses-101621710899068.html
23-05-2021||India||Vaccination needs to be done by Centre: Hemant Soren||RANCHI Even as Covid-19 cases have started declining in Jharkhand, chief minister Hemant Soren says the state can’t let its guard down as uncertainty about the nature of the pandemic remains. In a telephonic interview with Vishal Kant, the chief minister batted for better coordination between the Centre and the states. Edited excerpts: Q) We are in the middle of the second wave of the pandemic. The numbers in Jharkhand have stared falling. What is the government’s assessment? Have we crossed the peak?A) Our experience shows there is a lot of uncertainty related to this disease. It keeps going up and down. Now there are more features coming up like black fungus. I think the numbers going down could also be a result of the restrictions we have put in place. So we cannot lower our guard. Overall social distancing, using mask are the best practice to prevent oneself from the disease besides vaccination. Q) As you said vaccination is key to fight this disease. But it’s very slow in the state, especially in the 18-44 age group. What’s the plan ahead? A) There is no denying the fact that there is shortage of vaccines due to supply constraints. Initially, the Centre was doing the procurement and distribution. Then they suddenly left it to the state to procure it for the 18-44 group. That has led to a chaotic situation. States are now going for a global tender. And then there is no parity in pricing for the states and the Centre. But we are still making the best of efforts because the same people would turn around and blame the states if there is a delay in vaccination. Q) Will Jharkhand also float a global tender? A) Yes, its in the process. We will issue it within the next few days. Q) But do you think that would help? A) I am not very hopeful. Even if they do it is going to be a huge burden on states, especially poor states like us. There is no price parity. Spending hundreds of crores would be a huge burden. But we have no choice. Q) Some other states have said the Centre should be taking over the entire vaccination programme. Do you also advocate it?A) Absolutely. I made a similar demand from the UPA platform. And I still think so. It’s not too late. The Centre should be doing all procurement and distribution. They are allocating oxygen, medicines and equipment. Similarly, vaccination needs to be done at the national stage.Q) Centre-state relations often become a talking point. We have seen the conflict even during the pandemic. Your tweet about the PM went viral, with the BJP hitting back. Did you mean to say that such meetings/discussions are not fruitful? A) The basic thing is that there needs to be transparency. I tweeted about the phone call only after news started flashing on TV that he spoke to CMs. We saw the incident of Delhi CM Kejriwal. He was reminded about the protocol of the meeting. But how come what the PM speaks comes in the media. So how do we (states) share what we had to say in such meetings and about the demands of any specific state. My view was that the state governments need to be taken into confidence before taking any decision. Or else there would be problems in implementation. We have the example of what’s happening with the ventilators supplied to states. Q) CM Mamata Banerjee raised the issue of the PM-DMs conference? You were part of it. Do you share similar views?A) I want to clarify that I have no ego hassles to sit there with the DMs. However, such meetings are against the principles of federalism. Have we ever seen any other PM doing that kind of review meeting directly with the DMs. I totally agree that such meetings are done to humiliate us where we have nothing to speak or contribute. Will the Centre be comfortable if I start doing review meetings with the Union health secretary?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccination-needs-to-be-done-by-centre-hemant-soren-101621710778961.html
23-05-2021||India||Autopsy reveals 14 injuries to UP vendor beaten to death by cops||KANPUR: A post-mortem examination on Saturday revealed 14 injury marks on the body of the teenage vegetable vendor who was allegedly beaten to death by policemen and a home guard in Unnao’s Bangarmau town on Friday.Unnao’s additional superintendent of police (ASP) Shashi Shekhar Singh on Saturday said there were several injuries on his body.“I do not have the report at this time. The information we have received confirms that the body bore injuries,” he said.Those privy to the autopsy revealed that apart from the body, injuries were noticed on the head. The nature of the head injuries suggested they were caused by boots, they said.The vendor was assaulted on a road and then at the Bangarmau police station on Friday afternoon for alleged violation of the partial coronavirus curfew in force in the state, it was alleged.He was selling vegetables, like many others in Bhatpuri area of Bangarmau, when police arrived and began chasing away people.It was alleged that he was brutally beaten up inside the police station, where he was taken in an unconscious state. As his condition worsened, he was taken to the Bangarmau community health centre where he was declared dead on arrival.A case of murder was registered against two policemen and a home guard after the alleged incident, which sparked a series of widespread protests. Police officers struggled to pacify local people who put up a road blockade, which continued till late Friday night.The blockade ended and the body was sent for the post-mortem examination after officers on the spot gave a cheque for ₹2 lakh as compensation, agreed to request the government for a compensation of ₹50 lakh and assured early arrest of the police constables and the home guard. The two constables were suspended and the home guard sacked.Though the case was lodged with Bangarmau police in Unnao, the investigation was handed over to inspector Indrapal Singh who is currently posted at the office of the Unnao superintendent of police. Officials said the decision was taken to maintain transparency in the investigation so that it could not be influenced at the local level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/autopsy-reveals-14-injuries-to-up-vendor-beaten-to-death-by-cops-101621710659574.html
23-05-2021||India||Bihar IMA forms panel to probe deaths of doctors due to Covid-19 as toll touches 96||Stung by the death of over 96 doctors in Bihar in the current wave of Covid-19, the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Bihar Branch, has constituted an eight-member committee under the chairmanship of Dr Sahjanand Prasad Singh, IMA India (president elect) to investigate the reasons behind such a large number of deaths of doctors in the state.The IMA president said that more than 329 doctors have succumbed so far during the second Covid-19 wave and 96 out of these casualties have been reported from Bihar, which now has the highest number of doctor deaths during the second wave.“During the first wave of Covid-19 last year, 30 doctors had lost their lives in Bihar,” Dr Singh said.According to news agency ANI’s report, the IMA said that over 400 doctors across the country have succumbed to the Covid-19 infection during the second wave of the pandemic.On May 18, the IMA had said 269 doctors had lost their lives during the Covid-19 second wave over the past two months. During the first wave in 2020, India had lost 748 doctors. With the updated toll shared by the IMA today, India has now lost over 1,000 doctors due to Covid-19.Of the 96 deaths reported in Bihar, 38 had taken place in Patna alone with 14 deaths reported from Muzaffarpur, as per a list released by the IMA, Bihar chapter. Five deaths have been reported in Bhagalpur and three each at Gaya and Siwan.“Doctors in Bihar have been working continuously. The committee has been formed to find out the reasons for death as doctors even in non-Covid hospitals and clinics have been treating patients. In many cases proper distancing with patients could not be maintained,” said Dr Singh, IMA national president (elect).The IMA president blamed the lack of proper care and facilities for doctors for such a high number of casualties. “In all government or private hospitals no beds have been reserved for doctors’ treatment. Doctors died for want of beds and ventilators,” alleged Dr Singh. “At least two beds could have been reserved for our fraternity members and the mortality would have been much less. After all, we are also working for the people and their welfare,” he added.Dr Singh was also critical of oxygen supply and said that the state capital has more than 200 hospitals (both government and private) but only 90 got oxygen supply during the crisis. “More than 100 did not get supply but still kept treating patients by managing oxygen in the name of humanity,” he said.The IMA has demanded that doctors should be properly treated even in private hospitals and beds should be earmarked for them. “We demand that those doctors who died due to Covid-19 should be given ₹50 lakh compensation amount by the respective state governments,” Dr Singh demanded and informed that IMA has decided to give ₹10 lakh each to families of poor doctors. “In Bihar, we are going to give ₹10 lakh to family of three poor doctors and this will be done in other states as well,” Dr Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-ima-forms-panel-to-probe-deaths-of-doctors-due-to-covid-19-as-toll-touches-96-101621708921390.html
23-05-2021||India||Odisha orders evacuation of those living in mud houses ahead of Cyclone Yaas||Ahead of the landfall of cyclonic storm Yaas between north Odisha and Sundarbans by May 26, the Odisha government on Saturday ordered all district collectors of coastal areas to bring people living in mud houses to cyclone shelters with Covid-19 appropriate behaviour.Chief minister Naveen Patnaik who undertook a review meeting, ordered all district administrations in the six coastal districts to immediately evacuate people so as to ensure zero casualty during the storm. All precautions should be taken and Covid-19 appropriate behaviour should be maintained during the evacuation procedure, Patnaik ordered. All those who will be moved to the shelter houses will be provided with masks also.According to the India Meteorological Department, a low pressure area has already developed in northern Andaman Sea which is likely to intensify into a depression by May 23 morning and turn into a very severe cyclonic storm by May 24. It will move north-north-westwards and make landfall anywhere in between north Odisha and Sundarbans by May 26. During the storm, the wind speed is expected to be around 120-165 kmph with 185 kmph gusts of wind.Special Relief Commissioner Pradeep Kumar Jena on Saturday said that arrangements are being worked out to ensure Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and oxygen supply in the state. The industries department is reviewing the situation with oxygen manufacturers and refill agencies so that there will be no production, generation and refilling problem. Further, contingent arrangement for stocking extra oxygen cylinders in Covid Hospitals is also being worked out.A contingent plan has already been made to ensure adequate power backup, drinking water, food and drugs, doctors and paramedics staff are available at all Covid Hospitals and Covid Care Centres.At least 66 ODRAF, 22 NDRF and 177 fire service teams will be deployed in areas likely to be affected by the approaching cyclone.As the condition of the sea is likely to get very rough during the cyclone, the Coast Guard has safely brought back all fishermen who had ventured out into the sea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-orders-evacuation-of-those-living-in-mud-houses-ahead-of-cyclone-yaas-101621709339429.html
23-05-2021||India||Yaas approaches, navy, coastguard on standby||Cyclone Yaas will likely intensify into a “very severe cyclonic storm” and cross the Odisha and the West Bengal coasts on May 26, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) warned on Saturday, days after the strongest Arabian Sea storm in over two decades left a trail of destruction on the western coast and claimed dozens of lives at a barge off Mumbai.The memories of Tauktae and the havoc wreaked by Amphan last year have prompted both the Centre and states likely to be affected by Yaas to enhance their vigilance and preparedness. The fact that the crossing of the cyclone, by current estimates, coincides with the spring tide (which could mean more storm surges) is worrying, according to experts.A low-pressure area formed over the east-central Bay of Bengal and the adjoining north Andaman Sea on Saturday. “The low-pressure area is very likely to concentrate into a depression over east-central Bay of Bengal by tomorrow, the 23rd May morning. It is very likely to move north-north-westwards, intensify into a Cyclonic Storm by 24th May and further into a very severe cyclonic storm during the subsequent 24 hours,” IMD said.Also read | Cyclone Yaas likely to intensify into very severe cyclonic storm: IMDWhile a low-pressure area is the first stage of the formation of a cyclone, not all low-pressure areas intensify into cyclonic storms. However, the possibility of Yaas’s further intensification into an “extremely severe cyclonic storm” (wind speed of 167-221kmph) cannot be ruled out, scientists said. Yaas is named by Oman and the word means a fragrant plant like jasmine.An “extremely severe” cyclone, Tauktae, the most powerful one to barrel through the region in over two decades, caused gusts of wind up to 210kmph and nine-metre-high waves as it raced past Mumbai and made landfall in Gujarat on Monday night. The havoc forced governments in Gujarat, Maharashtra, Goa, Karnataka and Kerala to evacuate hundreds of thousands of people in low-lying areas with at least 60 people losing their lives in storm-related incidents. The storm also sank a barge off the Mumbai coast, resulting in the deaths of 61 people so far.“As on today the models are indicating that the cyclone will move towards and cross the West Bengal coast. It is, however, a large system and will definitely impact north Odisha and Bangladesh coasts. We still have five days so it’s too early to give exact details of its landfall,” said Sunitha Devi, in charge of cyclones at IMD.The National Crisis Management Committee (NCMC), headed by cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba, met on Saturday to review preparedness for Cyclone Yaas in the Bay of Bengal, with the top bureaucrat directing various agencies to ensure safety of Covid-19 patients, hospitals and oxygen generation plants.“Reviewing the preparedness of the central and state agencies, Gauba stressed that all measures should be taken in a timely manner so that loss of lives and destruction of property is minimised,” a statement released after the meeting said.In view of the possible intensification of the low-pressure area, the Indian Navy has kept its ships and aircraft on standby for possible rescue and relief operations in West Bengal and Odisha. The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) also deployed its teams in 11 districts of West Bengal on Saturday.Also read: Cyclone Yaas unlikely to match intensity of super cyclonic storm Amphan, says IMDApart from putting at least 14 of the state’s 30 districts on high alert in the wake of IMD’s forecast, the Odisha government has urged the Navy and the Indian Coast Guard to be prepared for the emerging situation. In West Bengal, district administrations, particularly in the coastal block and Sunderban islands, have already started strengthening the embankments that form the only barricade between the rivers and villages. Fishermen in West Bengal have been advised not to venture into the sea from May 23 evening till the storm passes, and those who are in deep sea have been told to return to the coast by May 23 morning.Last year, a cyclone named Amphan pummelled south West Bengal and coastal Odisha, leaving at least 100 dead. IMD officials have said they cannot rule out the possibility that Yaas will intensify like Amphan.Though Amphan impacted the same region last year, it commenced its journey as a low-pressure area over south Bay of Bengal; Yaas is over east-central Bay of Bengal. Both North and South 24 Parganas, which were devastated last by Amphan, are likely to be impacted again.Large-scale evacuations in coastal areas in India and Bangladesh were carried out last year because of Amphan. Around 2.4 million people were displaced in India, mostly in West Bengal and Odisha, and 2.5 million in Bangladesh. While many returned soon afterwards, damage to more than 2.8 million homes resulted in homelessness and displacement for thousands, a World Meteorological Organisation (WMO) statement said.“The sea surface temperatures over east-central Bay of Bengal are around 31 degrees C, 1-2 degree C above. Ocean heat potential is also high and all other conditions are favouring intensification. But its too early to say what shape it will take during landfall,” Devi said.The low-pressure area is very likely to concentrate into a depression over east-central Bay of Bengal by May 23 morning. It is very likely move north-north-westwards, intensify into a cyclonic storm by May 24 and into a very severe cyclonic storm in 24 hours. It is likely to continue to move north-north-westwards, intensify further and reach North Bay of Bengal near West Bengal and adjoining north Odisha and Bangladesh coasts around May 26 morning.Yaas is likely to cross West Bengal and adjoining north Odisha and Bangladesh coasts around May 26 evening. Over West Bengal, light to moderate rainfall at most places with heavy rain at isolated places is likely to commence over coastal districts from May 25, with significant increase in intensity subsequently, according to IMD. Light to moderate rainfall at most places with heavy to very heavy rainfall at a few places and extremely heavy rainfall at isolated places is very likely on May 26. Sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim are likely to receive light to moderate rainfall at most places on May 26 and heavy to very heavy rainfall at a few places with extremely heavy rainfall at isolated places on May 27.Light to moderate rainfall at many places, with heavy rainfall at isolated places is likely over north coastal Odisha on May 25 and over north Odisha on May 26. Sea conditions will be rough to very rough over Andaman Sea and adjoining east-central Bay of Bengal on May 22 and 23; high to very high waves (wave height of 9-14 metres; wind speed of 38-63kmph) over major parts of central Bay of Bengal, north Bay of Bengal and along and off Odisha, West Bengal, Bangladesh coasts is likely between May 24 and 26.Tidal waves of 1-2 metre height are very likely to inundate low-lying areas of Andaman & Nicobar Islands on May 22 and 23. Fishermen have been advised not to venture into southeast and east central Bay of Bengal, Andaman Sea and along and off Andaman & Nicobar Islands during May 22 to 24, into central Bay of Bengal from May 23 to 25 and into north Bay of Bengal and along and off West Bengal, Odisha, Bangladesh coasts from May 24 to 26.The cyclone may also support the timely onset of monsoon over Kerala. “Formation of such systems just before monsoon aids in monsoon onset. Monsoonal flow or winds are strengthened over the Arabian Sea. Monsoon is likely to make onset over Kerala around May 31, 1-2 days here or there,” said Devi.The April-May and the October-December periods are known to witness cyclones. Last May saw the formation of two cyclones – one in the Bay of Bengal (super cyclonic storm Amphan) and the other in the Arabian Sea (severe cyclonic storm Nisarga) – that hit the Indian coasts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yaas-approaches-navy-coastguard-on-standby-101621707343514.html
23-05-2021||India||Vaccines work against B.1.617 but single dose may not be enough: UK data||The B.1.617.2 variant of the coronavirus, which is believed to have contributed to the devastating second wave of Covid-19 in India, does not render vaccines ineffective but it could require people to get both doses in order to be adequately protected against symptomatic disease.The inference, based on preliminary data from infections among people in the UK, has implications for India’s vaccination drive, according to experts who said the country must now focus on expanding coverage and may need to reconsider its decision to increase the gap between shots.Data from the UK, first reported by the Financial Times on Saturday, suggested a single dose may be significantly less effective against the new variant. “One dose offered 33 per cent protection against symptomatic infection from B.1.617.2, and 51 per cent against B.1.1.7,” said the report.Follow HT's Coronavirus vaccine tracker hereThe difference in protection reduced to a mere 6 percentage point when people were vaccinated with both doses, the report added. The data was based on a pooled analysis of people who received the Pfizer-BioNTech and the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine in the UK.When both doses were given, the vaccines appeared to offer 81% protection against the B.1.617.2 variant and 87% protection against B.1.1.7.Experts said that though there is a drop, vaccines continue to protect against the B.1.617 variant. “In any case both shots are required for good and lasting immunity so the focus should continue to be that. The data so far shows reduced but sufficient protection against B.1.617,” said Shahid Jameel, virologist and director, Trivedi School of Bioscience, Ashoka University.“The focus should be on vaccination at scale,” he added.A second expert said the findings reinforce concerns around delayed intervals for second doses, a policy that India and the UK have followed.“The UK vaccine dose delay policy is controversial and risky, and the Indian policy needs reconsidering. The protection conferred by a single dose is not going to be enough to stop the spread of B.1.617, particularly as the vaccines in use in India are not the strongest known. Even the mRNA vaccines struggle against the resistant variants when given only once,” said John P Moore, virologist and professor at Cornell University’s Weill Cornell Medicine.Also read: Govt, Pfizer hit an impasse on vaccine indemnity demandOn May 13, India announced that people on Covishield (the India-made version of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine) need to wait 12-16 weeks for their second doses, citing real world data from UK that showed improved efficacy when the gap between shots was expanded. But on May 15, the UK itself reduced the gap from 12 weeks to 8 weeks and accelerated rollout to more groups, citing the B.1.617 variant.Jameel added that it might be too soon to determine if the extended dosing schedules pose a risk.The B.1.617 is a variant with three sub-lineages – B.1.617.1, B.1.617.2 and B.1.617.3. Among these, whole genomic sequencing has shown that B.1.617.2 has grown rapidly in several parts of the world, including India, UK and US.According to an updated analysis by outbreak.info of data on the global repository GISAID, 58% of the samples sequenced in India over the last 45 days are of this variant, which now appears to have become dominant after rising from relative obscurity in mid-March. Along with B.1.617.1, the B.1.617 lineage now accounts for 70% of the samples analysed in the last 45 days.Moore added that the data from UK reinforce what has been observed in lab analysis. “I am not surprised by the reports from the UK. The B.1.617 variant is known to have a set of mutations associated with antibody resistance, and assays in a UK lab (Gupta in Cambridge) confirm that. It’s a set of mutations not any individual one that’s responsible,” he said.In an interview to Global News, the CEO of BioNTech, Ugur Sahin said on May 20 that he expects the Pfizer-BioNTech mRNA vaccine have around 70-75% efficacy in preventing infection of the B.1.617 variants. While this is lower than the 95% protection from the variant that was first seen in Wuhan, experts said vaccines are likely to still offer significant protection from severe illness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccines-work-against-b-1-617-but-single-dose-may-not-be-enough-uk-data-101621707528654.html
