25-05-2021||India||WHO nod likely by September: Bharat Biotech||Bharat Biotech on Tuesday announced that it applied to WHO (World Health Organisation) for emergency use listing of its Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine, Covaxin, and expected approvals anytime between July and September, amidst rising concerns that the lack of such recognition could come in the way of international travel by those who received this vaccine.“Application for emergency use listing (EUL) has been submitted to WHO-Geneva, regulatory approvals are expected Jul-Sept 2021,” the Hyderabad-based company said in a statement about its inactivated whole virion Covid-19 vaccine.As the world opens up after the pandemic, it is likely that countries will put in place restrictions on incoming travellers. In some cases, this may mean mandating vaccination, by a vaccine recognised either by that country or WHO. According to Bharat Biotech, regulatory approvals for Covaxin are currently in process in at least 60 countries, including the US, Brazil, and Hungary. So far, the company has obtained emergency use authorisations in 13 countries including Mexico, Philippines, Iran, Paraguay, Guatemala, Nicaragua, Guyana, Venezuela, Botswana, and Zimbabwe.In the second interim analysis of the phase 3 clinical trial results that the company released last month, Covaxin has been found to have an efficacy of about 78%. The company’s vaccine has also been found to be effective against mutant strains of the virus. “This is something where we’re still gaining data on a daily basis. But the most recent data, was looking at convalescent Sera of Covid-19 cases and people who received the vaccine used in India, the Covaxin. It was found to neutralise the 617 variants,” Dr Anthony Fauci, prominent American infectious disease expert, had earlier said. The company is yet to publish the final results of its trial.“Most countries recommend vaccinations against Covid-19. Unvaccinated travellers can travel with negative RT-PCR tests prior to travel, in the absence of any other country specific travel restrictions,” the company added in its statement. Bharat Biotech announced last week that it would scale up Covaxin production to up to 1 billion doses a year by the last quarter of this year.  Covaxin was developed with seed strains received from the National Institute of Virology, and the phase 3 clinical trial was co-funded by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).Bharat Biotech is selling a vaccine dose for ₹400 to state governments, and ₹1200 to private hospitals. Pricing for international markets and supplies to government’s under emergency use authorizations have been established between $15 and $ 20 per vaccine dose. Like many others, Covaxin is a two-dose vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/whonod-likely-by-september-bharat-biotech-101621966270860.html
25-05-2021||India||In meeting with UN chief, Jaishankar discusses the ‘Covid challenge’||Effective global vaccine solutions to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic and regional challenges in India’s neighbourhood, especially the situation in Afghanistan, figured prominently in a meeting between external affairs minister S Jaishankar and UN chief Antonio Guterres on Tuesday.Jaishankar’s meeting with UN Secretary-General Guterres in New York was the first major engagement of his five-day visit to the US. Jaishankar is also set to meet his American counterpart Antony Blinken and other officials of the Biden administration to discuss ways to ramp up the availability of Covid-19 vaccines. The foreign minister said in a string of tweets after the nearly hour-long meeting that he had highlighted to Guterres the importance of increased production and equitable distribution of vaccines, including the availability of raw materials needed to make the doses.“Discussed the Covid challenge, underlining the importance of finding urgent & effective global vaccine solutions. Critical to ramp up the vaccine supply chain to ensure greater production & fairer distribution,” Jaishankar tweeted after what he characterised as a “warm and comprehensive” meeting with the UN chief.The Indian government is currently focused on ways to boost access to vaccines and to increase their domestic production in the face of a growing domestic shortage of doses. Jaishankar’s interactions with his US interlocutors are expected to focus on ways to remove hurdles in critical supply chains for components needed to make the vaccines, including components and crucial equipment.On the other hand, the UN’s health agency, the World Health Organization (WHO), is looking at ways to ramp up vaccine supplies to the COVAX facility to increase the distribution of doses to low and middle-income countries. The disruption of supplies from Serum Institute of India (SII), the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer, has hit COVAX’s plans for supplying doses to dozens of countries.The situation in Afghanistan following the US drawdown of forces also figured in the meeting between Jaishankar and Guterres. Concerns have grown in the global community about the fragile security situation in the war-torn country, with Australia announcing on Tuesday that it will close its embassy in Kabul from May 28 because of an “increasingly uncertain security environment”.Jaishankar tweeted, “Deliberated on regional challenges in India’s neighbourhood. Shared our concerns about ensuring that the gains of the last two decades in Afghanistan are adequately protected.”With reference to Afghanistan, he added, “Countering terrorism and radicalisation remain priorities for the entire region.” Jaishankar tweeted that he and Guterres also discussed recent developments in Myanmar, where the elected government was removed in a military coup on February 1, and exchanged views on climate action. Jaishankar said greater resources were “essential for larger ambitions” for tackling climate change and financing “will determine our seriousness and credibility” to tackle the phenomenon.The minister said he had highlighted India’s constructive role in UN Security Council and conveyed the priorities of India’s presidency of the body during August. “Maritime Security and Technology for Peacekeeping address the needs of the day,” he said.Jaishankar also welcomed Guterres’ appreciation for India’s peacekeeping operations, including at Goma in the Democratic Republic of Congo. Indian troops played a crucial role in evacuating civilians and UN personnel from North Kivu’s capital Goma after a volcano erupted in the Congo last week.Jaishankar’s visit to the US marks the first trip to the country by a senior Indian leader since the Biden administration assumed office in January.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-meeting-with-un-chief-jaishankar-discusses-the-covid-challenge-101621966213036.html
25-05-2021||India||Odisha CM Patnaik stresses on saving lives as countdown for Cyclone Yaas begins||As the countdown for Wednesday's landfall of the very severe cyclonic storm "Yaas" begins,Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Tuesday asked officials to take all possible steps to protect human lives. Patnaik conducted a meeting to take stock of the cyclone situation in the state which has already started impacting lives across the coastal districts as heavy rain pounced with blowing of wind at a speed of about 60 kmph. "Every life is precious, thus all possible steps should be taken to protect life," the Odisha chief minister said. While the severe cyclonic storm Yaas is moving at a speed of around 15 kmph and presently lies about 180 km off Paradip coast, Odisha government rushed men, machines and medicines to the districts likely to be affected before Wednesday noon. The Doppler radar at Paradip has meanwhile located the "eye" of the severe cyclonic storm Yaas, sources said. "To be very specific, the cyclone is likely to make landfall near Dhamra port between Basudevpur in Bhadrak district and Bahanaga in Balasore district on Wednesday," Special Relief Commissioner (SRC) PK Jena informed Patnaik at the review meeting. The SRC said the landfall process will begin at 4 am of Wednesday and continue for four hours till 8 am and all 77 blocks have been kept under high-impact zone category. Wind speed during the landfall will be around 140-155 kmph, gusting to 180 kmph, Jena said. On the rescue, relief and restoration preparedness, the SRC said 52 teams of NDRF, 60 teams of ODRAF, 206 Fire Service teams and 86 wood cutting teams of forest department have already been deployed in 10 coastal and adjoining districts. Keeping in view the tidal surge warning of 2 meter to 4.5 meters during the landfall time, which will continue for about four hours, Jena said evacuation process is going on in full swing. Over 3 lakh have already been evacuated from the low- lying, local surge pockets and vulnerable areas to safe place. The process will be completed by tonight, he said. The state has 860 permanent shelters and 6,200 temporary homes identified where 7 to 8 lakh can be safely accommodated observing COVID protocol, he said. Each person in the shelter is being given face mask, sanitiser and facilities of hand wash is there in the shelters. This apart, free kitchens have started operating in all places, Jena added. While arrangements have been made to take the COVID-19 patients staying in unsafe buildings, Jena said pregnant and expecting mothers in districts are being shifted to "Maa Gruha" or Community Health Centres. The high-risk pregnant women are being shifted to nearest hospitals, he added. The SRC also urged people not to come out of their house during the cyclone and specifically asked youths to refrain from taking selfie during the cyclone. He claimed that all the fishermen from Odisha have meanwhile returned to the coast and awareness is being made through public announcement system asking them not to venture into the sea till May 27th as the sea condition is rough to very rough. The IMD also suggested the authorities to keep hoisted Great Danger Signal No. 10 (GD10) at Paradip and Dhamra Ports of Odisha, Great Danger Signal No. 8 (GD8) at Puri Port and Local Cautionary Signal No. 3 (LC3) at Gopalpur Port of Odisha. Commodore N P Pradeep, Naval Officer-in_Charge, Odisha & Commanding Officer INS Chilka said the Indian Navy is closely monitoring the movement of the cyclonic storm Yaas. Headquarters, Eastern Naval Command, and Naval Officers-in- Charge at West Bengal and Odisha area have carried out preparatory activities to combat the effects of the cyclone and are in constant touch with the state administrations for rendering assistance. As part of the preparedness, eight flood relief teams and four diving teams are prepositioned at Odisha and West Bengal to augment the existing resources. Four naval ships are on standby with Humanitarian Assistance and Disaster Relief (HADR) bricks, diving, and medical teams to render assistance in the most affected areas along the Odisha and West Bengal coast, he said. Naval aircraft have been kept ready at Naval Air Stations, INS Dega at Visakhapatnam and INS Rajali near Chennai to undertake an aerial survey of the most affected areas, casualty evacuation, and airdrop of relief material as required, the official said. Meanwhile, reports of tree uprooting has reached here from Bhandaripokhari in Bhadrak district, Simulia in Balasore district and house damage at Rajkanika in Kendrapara district under the impact of heavy rains and wind, sources said. The IMD in its latest bulletin informed that the severe cyclonic storm 'Yaas' has intensified into a Very Severe Cyclonic Storm. The system moved north-northwestwards with a speed of about 15 kmph during past 6 hours, and lay centred at about 160 km east-southeast of Paradip (Odisha), 250 km south- southeast of Balasore (Odisha), 240 km south-southeast of Digha (West Bengal) and 230 km south of Sagar Islands (West Bengal). The cyclone is very likely to move north-northwestwards, intensify further and reach near north Odisha coast close to Dhamra port by the early morning of Wednesday, it said. It is very likely to cross north Odisha-West Bengal coasts close to north of Dhamra and south of Balasore, during noon of Wednesday as a very severe cyclonic storm, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-cm-patnaik-stresses-on-saving-lives-as-countdown-for-cyclone-yaas-begins-101621964526078.html
25-05-2021||India||Explained: Where did cyclone Yaas get its name from? Know more about the storm||The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) in its latest bulletin on Tuesday said the storm that formed over the Bay of Bengal, 'Yaas', intensified into a “very severe cyclonic storm” and is likely to cross north Odisha-West Bengal coasts between Paradip and Sagar islands early on Wednesday.The IMD said at 9pm on Tuesday that 'Yaas' was located about 160km east-southeast of Paradip and 250km south-southeast of Balasore.Click here for latest updates on cyclone YaasIn a weather alert, IMD director general Mrutyunjay Mohapatra said that the impact of the cyclone will be severe for six hours before and after the landfall and Chandbali in Odisha will bear the maximum brunt of the storm.Even as authorities of both West Bengal and Odisha are pressed in action on war footing to mitigate the impact of the storm on lives, the Internet is abuzz with chatter over the peculiar name of the cyclone, especially days after another cyclone with a strange name, Tauktae (pronounced Tau'Te), battered the west coast of the country and left a trail of death and destruction.How did 'Yaas' get its name:'Yaas' (pronounced as Yass) got its name from Oman. The word has its origin in the Persian language and means the flower jasmine in English.Why do cyclones have names?The cyclones are named to identify the storms to send out warning notifications about their development. As the technical names could be difficult for the common people to remember and spread awareness on, naming them gives a unique identifier to these cyclones and makes it easier for the media and various authorities to disseminate information on them. If the speed of a cyclone is more than 34 nautical miles per hour then a panel gives it a special name.Who names them?The panel comprising 13 countries, including India, Bangladesh, Myanmar, Pakistan, the Maldives, Oman, Sri Lanka, Thailand, Iran, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Yemen, name cyclones in the region. In 2020, a new list of names was released that had 169 names of cyclones, having 13 suggested names each from 13 countries.Is there a criterion behind the names?The Indian Meteorological Department names the cyclonic storms rising in the north Indian Ocean when their forecast says that the depression has intensified into cyclonic storms with three-minute sustained wind speeds of at least 63kmph. The names are selected keeping in mind that they are gender, religion, culture, and politically neutral; they should not be offensive, or hurt anyone’s sentiments; they ought to be short and easy to pronounce; and the maximum length of the name should be eight letters.What will the next cyclone be called?The list of 13 names prepared by each of the 13 nations are out in public domain. The next cyclone in the region will be called 'Gulab', as recommended by Pakistan, while the one after it will be ‘Shaheen’, as named by Qatar. At present the first list is in use. Once the names in the first list are exhausted, the second list of the names in the table will be used, and so on.How severe will 'Yaas' be?In West Bengal, the wind speed in Kolkata, Howrah and Hooghly will reach between 70kmph and 80kmph gusting to 90kmph on May 26. The coastal areas bordering north and south 24 Parganas will experience 90kmph to 100kmph wind speed, gusting to 120 kmph. West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said the impact of 'Yaas' could be more than cyclone Amphan that battered the state last year.Meanwhile, the storm surge in the sea and rivers triggered by ‘Yaas’, which coincides with the perigean spring tide of Wednesday’s full moon, would inflict the maximum damage this time, IMD officials have warned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/explained-where-did-cyclone-yaas-get-its-name-from-know-more-about-the-storm-101621960395039.html
25-05-2021||India||Will you die within 2 years after taking Covid vaccine? Centre busts fake news post||As the world continues to suffer the brunt of the coronavirus pandemic, there has been a tsunami of fake news on social media platforms giving misinformation about the viral disease with regard to source of origin, symptoms, remedies, vaccination, appropriate behaviour etc. Government authorities have time and again informed people through social media or official announcements to refrain from believing and re-sharing such rumours about the pandemic.One such fake news has been doing the rounds in India. The Centre on Tuesday tweeted a post which allegedly quoted Nobel Laureate and prominent French Virologist Luc Montagnier, stating that all those who have been vaccinated against the Covid-19 disease will die within two years. “The claim in the image is fake. The Covid-19 vaccine is completely safe. Do not forward this message,” the Centre said in a subsequent tweet.What is the viral post all about?According to the tweet shared by the Centre, the fake news post quoting Luc Montagnier read, “All vaccinated people will die within two years. Nobel Laureate Luc Montagnier has confirmed that there is no chance of survival for people who have received any form of vaccine.Also Read| Moderna says its Covid-19 vaccine found safe, effective in kids as young as 12In the shocking interview, the world’s leading virologist stated bluntly: “There is no hope and possible treatment for those who have already been vaccinated. We must be prepared to cremate the bodies.” The scientific genius backed up the claims of other eminent virologists after studying the ingredients of the vaccine. “They will all die from antibody-dependent enhancement. That is all can be said,” the viral post further read.What is the real story behind the viral post?Earlier in May, Luc Montagnier gave an interview to Pierre Barnérias of Hold-Up Media where he was asked about the ongoing mass vaccination program against Covid-19, according to a report by US-based RAIR Foundation.However, Montagnier never claimed that vaccinated beneficiaries will die within two years.An image allegedly quoting a French Nobel Laureate on #COVID19 vaccines is circulating on social mediaThe claim in the image is #FAKE. #COVID19 Vaccine is completely safeDo not forward this image#PIBFactCheck pic.twitter.com/DMrxY8vdMNIn fact, the Nobel Laureate said that vaccination has led to the creation of variants. “For the China virus, there are antibodies created by the vaccine. What does the virus do? Does it die or find another solution? The new variants are a production and result from the vaccination. You see in each country. It is the same. The curve of vaccination is followed by the curve of deaths,” Montagnier said in the interview which was translated in English, according to the RAIR Foundation’s report.Also Read| 'Sputnik V vaccine supplies in accordance to contract,' says RussiaThe virologist said he is doing experiments with those patients who got infected with Covid-19 after taking the vaccine. “I will show you that they are creating the variants that are resistant to the vaccine,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-you-die-within-2-yrs-after-taking-vaccine-centre-busts-fake-news-post-101621961181280.html
25-05-2021||India||Former Maha DGP Subodh Kumar Jaiswal appointed CBI Director||A high-powered committee led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and comprising Chief Justice of India NV Ramana and Congress Lok Sabha floor leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on Tuesday appointed IPS officer Subodh Kumar Jaiswal as the new Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) Director.The 1985 batch officer from Maharashtra cadre is currently posted as director general of Central Industrial Security Force (CISF).According to the order issued by the Appointments Committee of Cabinet (ACC), Jaiswal will take over CBI. The post has been lying vacant since February first week when Rishi Kumar Shukla completed his tenure. Additional Director Praveen Sinha has been looking after the affairs of the premier investigation agency as interim chief since then.The decision to appoint Jaiswal at the coveted post was taken following a 90-minute long meeting by the panel, in which Congress leader reportedly opposed to the process adopted for the selection.Jaiswal will have a fixed tenure of two years in CBI from the day he joins the agency.The senior officer has earlier served as the Director General of Maharashtra Police before coming to centre on deputation last year.During his tenure as DGP Maharashtra, he had differences with the coalition government led by Shiv Sena on various issues including its transfer policy. He had opposed the transfer of the IPS officers before completion of two years of the tenure, as per the provisions in the Act.He has also served in the Mumbai Anti-Terrorism Squad, the Maharashtra police special investigation team (SIT) and the state reserve police force.In his previous central deputation, he had served with the Special Protection Group (SPG) that secures the Prime Minister and with the Research and Analysis Wing (R&AW), the country's external intelligence agency.People familiar with the development said that CJI made it clear during the meeting on Monday that there shouldn’t be any controversy in the selection process and officials left with less than six months in their retirement should not be considered for the CBI chief’s post. This, officials said, immediately ruled out three 1984 batch IPS officers - Y C Modi, Rakesh Asthana and S S Deswal - who were also strong contenders for the post, as they are set to retire in May, July and August respectively.Officials said the panel agreed on the names of Jaiswal, another 1985 batch IPS officer - Kumar Rajesh Chandra and 1986 batch officer - V S K Kaumudi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-maha-dgp-subodh-kumar-jaiswal-appointed-cbi-director-101621889562385.html
25-05-2021||India||Antiguan PM says Choksi’s citizenship will be revoked if he has fled the country||Antiguan prime minister Gaston Browne on Tuesday said that if fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi has indeed fled the country then his citizenship will be revoked. Browne pointed out that there is no reliable information so far to confirm that Choksi, who is wanted in a ₹13,500 crore loan fraud in Punjab National Bank, has fled Antigua and Barbuda. Browne also said that the law enforcement is working round the clock to locate Mehul Choksi.Mehul Choksi goes missing in Antigua, reports say he may have fled to Cuba“We don't have any reliable information to date to confirm that he has fled the country. It is likely that he may still be here and law enforcement is utilizing all efforts, including all intelligence to locate him,” Brown was quoted as saying in the Antiguan parliament, according to news agency Antigua News Room.Responding to reports that Choksi may have fled to Cuba, Browne said the possibility of Choksi leaving for Cuba on a boat is highly unlikely. "If he is in Cuba, it would have been by boat and he would have to leave within a matter of 36 hours, which is extremely unlikely," Browne said.Browne said that the local police along with the international police are working to locate Choksi. He said that the Antiguan government is working closely with the Interpol and the Indian government. Browne highlighted that Mehul Choksi has two cases before the courts of Antigua and Barbuda - one concerning his extradition to India and the other concerning the status of his Antiguan citizenship - due to which Mehul Choksi has reason not to leave the country."We have been collaborating with the Indian government. Mr Choksi has two cases before the courts of Antigua and Barbuda. One is the extradition to India, and the second one is revocation of his citizenship. From all indications, Mr Mehul Choksi has very strong interests here to fight those two cases," Browne said.Earlier on Tuesday, Choksi's lawyer refuted reports of the diamantaire fleeing to Cuba while speaking to HT. Vijay Aggarwal refuted the reports and said that Antigua police are investigating the matter. "Mehul Choksi is missing. His family members are worried and anxious and had called me to discuss. Antigua police are investigating. The family is in the dark and worried about his safety."Choksi who fled India in 2018 left his home on Sunday to go for dinner at the southern part of the island and has been missing since, according to reports by Antiguan media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/antiguan-pm-says-choksi-s-citizenship-will-be-revoked-if-he-has-fled-the-country-101621959528655.html
25-05-2021||India||'No reliable info that Mehul Choksi has fled': Antigua PM||Antiguan prime minister Gaston Browne on Tuesday hinted that fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi has not fled the country, according to a video posted by antiguanewsroom.com. Browne said that there is no reliable information to confirm that Choksi has fled the country.“Mr Choksi was reported as missing. Since then, the Stratcom unit of Antigua and Barbuda police force has issued a statement. In fact, that statement will be shared with the Interpol and we have been collaborating with the Indian government as well. Mr Choksi has two cases before the courts of Antigua and Barbuda. One is the extradition to India, and the second one is the revocation of his citizenship. From all indications, Mr Mehul Choksi has very strong interests here to fight those two cases,’ Browne said in the Antiguan parliament on Tuesday.“I would not believe that law enforcement or anyone for that matter would have contemplated that Mr Choksi would have fled the country. In any case, we don’t have any reliable information to date to confirm that he has fled the country. It is likely that he may still be here and law enforcement is utilizing all efforts, including all intelligence to locate him,” Browne said.He added that in case it is true that Choksi has indeed fled the country, “we could get a judgement in absentia and we will revoke his citizenship in due course.”Browne said that “if indeed, Mr Choksi has fled the country as speculated, it would have been by boat because no aircraft with any flight plan (to Cuba) and any passenger by the name of Mehul Choksi would have been found by the authority,” adding that “no plane would have landed in this country illegally.”Talking about speculations that Choksi may be in Cuba, Browne said, “If he is in Cuba, it would have been by boat and he would have to leave within a matter of 36 hours, which is extremely unlikely.”Browne added “law enforcement continues to collaborate with regional and international police to make sure that he is located, just in case he may have absconded. But again Mr Speaker, we don’t have any reliable information to date to confirm that indeed he has absconded”.Police in Antigua have launched a search for Choksi, who went missing in the tiny Caribbean island on Sunday evening after heading to a popular local restaurant for dinner, according to his lawyer and a missing persons notice issued by the country’s Royal Police Force.Indian agencies have also alerted the Interpol for more information about his whereabouts, people familiar with the developments said.Reports in the Antiguan media on Monday suggested that Choksi may have fled to Cuba fearing his extradition to India but his lawyer Vijay Aggarwal denied the contention and Indian agencies said they had no such information.“Mehul Choksi is missing. His family members are worried and anxious and had called me to discuss. Antigua police are investigating. The family is in the dark and worried about his safety,” Aggarwal told HT.A report in a Caribbean news website Associates Times, quoting a person named Govin, a purported close aide of Choksi, claimed that he had “left the country a few days ago and is currently living in a safe house in based in Cuba”. The claim, however, appeared at odds with the police’s version of events, and of his last sighting.Choksi, who has sought refuge in Antigua after allegedly cheating Punjab National Bank of ₹13,578 crore along with his nephew Nirav Modi, and fleeing India in 2018, left his home on Sunday “to go for dinner at a well-known restaurant in the southern part of the island and was never seen again,” according to a report in the antiguanewsroom.com.The diamond merchant’s vehicle was found at Jolly Harbour, a popular nightlife hub on the 280 square km island with a population of less than 100,000 that is famous for its cricketing antecedents -- it is the home of talismanic West Indies batsman Sir Vivian Richards and iconic fast bowler Andy Roberts. Antigua famously has 365 beaches, “one for every day of the year”, according to its tourism tagline.Police in Antigua have sought public assistance to gather information on Choksi, who, according to a police statement, was last seen at about 5:15 pm (local time) before leaving for home in a car, which has since been recovered.After an official complaint was lodged at the Johnson Point Police Station, the police launched a manhunt. “Based on additional information received, the police have conducted numerous searches but to no avail,” the local police said in the statement on Monday.Giving information on his physical attributes for identification purpose, the police statement asked people to inform the Johnson Point Police Station or the Criminal Investigations Department (CID) if they had any information on his whereabouts. “Mehul is described as being of Indian descent, brown in complexion, five feet six inches (5’ 6”) in height, heavily built with a balding hairline. The police are seeking the assistance of the public in knowing the whereabouts of Mr Choksi,” the police statement said.Indian officials that HT spoke to, both in the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED), said they are in touch with the concerned Antiguan officials through the ministry of external affairs (MEA), and were confident that Choksi would be traced soon.India has been pursuing Choksi’s extradition in Antigua since 2018, and an Interpol red notice is pending against him.In a charge sheet filed last year, ED alleged that Choksi did not just defraud Indian banks, but customers and lenders in Dubai and the US as well. His assets worth ₹2,500 crores have already been attached.As reported by HT in March, Antigua & Barbuda has initiated the process to cancel Choksi’s citizenship granted under the Caribbean nation’s Citizenship by Investment Programme (CIP) in November 2017. He has challenged the move in a court in the Caribbean nation.India has an extradition arrangement with Antigua and Barbuda. As per the provisions of the Extradition Act, 1993 of Antigua and Barbuda, a fugitive may be extradited to a designated Commonwealth country or a state with which there are general or special arrangements or a bilateral treaty.Choksi’s extradition is pending since 2018 in court there, which he has challenged.People familiar with his citizenship said that Choksi has approached the high court there against Antigua’s process to revoke his citizenship but the whole legal battle may take some time.His nephew Nirav Modi is currently lodged in a UK jail. The Westminster’s Court in London, in February this year, ordered his extradition, which he has challenged in the UK high court.Sherbir Panag, partner at Panag and Babu and international legal expert on white collar crimes, said, “Assuming that Mehul Choksi has left the country after he felt that India’s diplomatic efforts to bring him back here are working, he will try to place himself in a jurisdiction which doesn’t have extradition arrangement/treaty with India”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mehul-choksi-goes-missing-in-antigua-reports-say-he-may-have-fled-to-cuba-101621959671425.html
25-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Leaders, celebrities mark George Floyd’s death anniversary and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Your legacy will last forever': Leaders, celebs mark George Floyd’s death anniversaryPeople around the world on Tuesday marked the first death anniversary of George Floyd, a Black man who was murdered by a white police officer in Minneapolis, US. Floyd, 46, died after Derek Chauvin knelt on his neck for about nine and a half minutes. Chauvin was convicted last month of murder and faces sentencing on June 25. Read moreLakshadweep BJP leader springs a surprise on party, says some grievances genuineA Bharatiya Janata Party leader from Lakshadweep on Monday waded into the row over Lakshadweep’s acting administrator Praful Khoda Patel, saying he should have taken the people along before issuing the new regulations that have led to an uproar in the archipelago of 36 islands and beyond. Read morePM Modi to deliver keynote address during Buddha Purnima celebrationsPrime Minister Narendra Modi will on Wednesday deliver the keynote address at the virtual Vesak celebrations during the occasion of Buddha Purnima. Modi is scheduled to deliver his address at 9.45am in the meeting which would also be attended by “over 50 prominent Buddhist religious leaders from around the world”, a statement from his office said. Read more‘Toolkit’ probe: Delhi Police asks two Congress leaders to join investigationDelhi Police on Tuesday served notices to two Congress leaders Rohan Gupta and MV Rajeev Gowda in the ‘Covid toolkit’ case and asked them to join the probe following a complaint into the matter, officials familiar with the developments told news agency PTI. Read moreAnushka Sharma and Virat Kohli help raise funds to procure world's most expensive medicine for a childAnushka Sharma and Virat Kohli turned good samaritans for a child suffering from spinal muscular atrophy (SPA), a rare genetic disorder. The patient, Ayaansh Gupta, needed a medicine named Zolgensma, which costs ₹16 crore, to beat the disease. Read more'He could be more vulnerable to injury problems': Richard Hadlee's major concern for India's primary fast bowlerFor India, Jasprit Bumrah has been the backbone of the fast bowling attack in the past few years, and his ability to adapt across all formats has made him one of the best pacers in the world at this moment. Read moreRelax! Twitter and Facebook will not stop working tomorrow due to the new IT rules: Here's what experts thinkOn Tuesday, social media platforms were rife with discussions that major social media platforms like Facebook, Twitter, WhatsApp and Instagram would face bans if they failed to comply with the government’s new intermediary guidelines for social media platforms. Read moreCyclone Yaas: Bengal CM Mamata to spend night in office, 9 lakh evacuated||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-leaders-celebrities-mark-george-floyd-s-death-anniversary-101621955851334.html
25-05-2021||India||PM Modi to deliver keynote address at virtual Vesak celebrations during Buddha Purnima on April 26||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Wednesday deliver the keynote address at the virtual Vesak celebrations during the occasion of Buddha Purnima. Modi is scheduled to deliver his address at 9.45am in the meeting which would also be attended by “over 50 prominent Buddhist religious leaders from around the world”, a statement from his office said.“Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi will deliver the keynote address on the occasion of Virtual Vesak Global Celebrations on Buddha Purnima i.e. on 26th April 2021 at around 09:45 AM,” the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said in a press release.“The event is being organised by the culture ministry in collaboration with the International Buddhist Confederation (IBC) and will witness participation of all the supreme heads of the Buddhist Sanghas from around the world. Over 50 most prominent Buddhist religious leaders from around the world will address the congregation,” the PMO further said in its statement.The ministry of culture also confirmed the event through a tweet: “As the world celebrates the UN Day of #Vesak on 26th May 2021, Hon’ble Prime Minister Shri @narendramodi will deliver the keynote address on the occasion of 2565th #BuddhaPurnima Diwas 2021, in the International event being organised by @MinOfCultureGoI & @IbcWorldOrg. #VesakDay.”The celebrations this year have been taken online for the second consecutive year following 2020 due to the Covid-19 pandemic. During the virtual celebrations last year too, PM Modi delivered the keynote address. “Buddha Purnima celebrations are being held through a Virtual Visak day owing to the impact of the Covid-19 Pandemic across the globe. The event is being organised in honour of the victims and the frontline warriors of Covid-19,” a statement from the PMO said on May 6, last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-deliver-keynote-address-at-virtual-vesak-celebrations-during-buddha-purnima-on-april-26-101621956131660.html
25-05-2021||India||‘Will fight for the rights of the people of Lakshadweep’: Priyanka Gandhi||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra criticised the administrator of the Union Territory Lakshadweep on Monday accusing him of destroying the heritage by imposing new rules on the inhabitants of the group of islands located in the Arabian Sea.Congress seeks recall of Lakshadweep administrator over draconian measuresPriyanka Gandhi’s accusations come after Praful Patel announced a slew of measures like the implementation of the Lakshadweep Anti-Social Activities Regulation Bill, 2021, or the “goonda act” in the islands which have a low-crime rate, ban of beef and elimination of non-vegetarian food from the menu of food given to children who go to Anganwadi schools. The former home minister of Gujarat took over the role of the administrator of Lakshadweep in December 2020.“The BJP government and its administration have no business to destroy this heritage, to harass the people of Lakshadweep or to impose arbitrary restrictions and rules on them,” Priyanka Gandhi said in a series of tweets. She said it is the people of this group of islands who understand and ‘honour its rich natural and cultural heritage.’Priyanka Gandhi also said that such measures should not have been taken without consulting the inhabitants of the islands. “Dialogue sustains democracy. Why can’t the people of Lakshadweep be consulted? Why can’t they be asked what they believe is good for them and for Lakshadweep?” she further said. Priyanka said that she will fight to protect the rights of the people of the islands and protect the “national treasure” cherished by all Indians.Congress leader Ajay Maken on Tuesday also demanded that Patel should be recalled from his position and he should withdraw the orders issued by him. The party called the orders ‘anti-people’, according to a report by HT.Praful Patel’s changes also allowed the government to take over the control of the local administrative powers of the elected Zilla panchayat regarding matters related to education, health care, agriculture, animal husbandry and fisheries. It also bars any person with more than two children from contesting the panchayat election polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-beef-ban-praful-patel-will-fight-for-the-rights-of-the-people-of-lakshadweep-priyanka-gandhi-101621949080062.html
25-05-2021||India||India, New Zealand for closer cooperation for free and open Indo-Pacific||India and New Zealand on Tuesday agreed to cooperate for a rules-based world order and a free and inclusive Indo-Pacific region during their foreign office consultations. The consultations, held virtually after a gap of more than two years because of the Covid-19 pandemic, reviewed bilateral cooperation and focused on steps to enhance engagement in key areas such as defence and security, trade and investment, counter-terrorism and climate change. The consultations were held against the backdrop of New Zealand’s foreign minister Nanaia Mahuta warning that the country could find itself at the heart of a “storm” of anger from China, and that exporters need to diversify to ensure they can survive deteriorating relations with Beijing. Both sides exchanged views on regional issues and “reiterated the importance of closer cooperation for a rules-based international order and a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific region”, the external affairs ministry said in a readout. Also Read | Japan to impose 10-day quarantine on travelers to India, 5 South Asian countriesThe response to the pandemic and access to vaccines and medicines for containing Covid-19 globally were also discussed by officials of the two countries. The two sides further discussed ways to strengthen coordination in multilateral and regional forums and carried out a comprehensive review of bilateral cooperation. They also discussed steps to “enhance the depth and momentum of engagement in different areas including defence and security, trade and investment, space, counterterrorism, cyber security, disarmament and climate change, and for strengthening people-to-people ties”, the readout said. The Indian side at the virtual meeting was led by Riva Ganguly Das, secretary (East) in the external affairs ministry, while the New Zealand delegation was led by Mark Sinclair, deputy secretary for the Americas and Asia group in the foreign ministry. The previous round of consultations was held in New Delhi in February 2019. In an interview with The Guardian newspaper, New Zealand’s foreign minister said the country couldn’t ignore what was happening in the Australia-China relationship. “And if they are close to an eye of the storm or in the eye of the storm, we’ve got to legitimately ask ourselves – it may only be a matter of time before the storm gets closer to us,” Mahuta said. Her comments came against the backdrop of Australia’s intensifying trade war with China and growing pressure on New Zealand to take a firmer stance on human rights violations and crackdowns by China. Mahuta added: “The signal I’m sending to exporters is that they need to think about diversification in this context – Covid-19, broadening relationships across our region, and the buffering aspects of if something significant happened with China.” she asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-new-zealand-for-closer-cooperation-for-free-and-open-indopacific-101621948151142.html
25-05-2021||India||‘Toolkit’ probe: Delhi Police asks two Congress leaders to join investigation||Delhi Police on Tuesday served notices to two Congress leaders Rohan Gupta and MV Rajeev Gowda in the ‘Covid toolkit’ case and asked them to join the probe following a complaint into the matter, officials familiar with the developments told news agency PTI.The official confirmed that notices were served to Congress social media head Rohan Gupta and party spokesperson MV Rajeev Gowda with connection to the probe. The enquiry into the complaint is in its preliminary stage and no FIR has been filed so far. The police official also said that the notices are not fresh.“These notices were served around 8-9 days ago based on a complaint received from the Congress party. They were asked to join the probe so that it could help us in carrying the investigation forward,” the officials said.Earlier on Monday, Delhi Police searched Twitter India’s offices in New Delhi and Gurgaon and sent a notice to Twitter India asking it to clarify as to why BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra’s tweet on a ‘toolkit’ allegedly made by Congress to defame the government and PM Modi was tagged as ‘manipulated media’ by the social media giant.“The Delhi police team went to the Twitter India office to serve a notice to the social media giant as a part of routine process. This was necessitated as we wanted to ascertain who is the right person to serve a notice, as replies by Twitter India MD have been very ambiguous,” Delhi Police PRO Chinmay Biswal was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have been at loggerheads since the past week over a purported ‘toolkit’ which the BJP claims was made by Congress to diminish the image of the Prime Minister and criticise government’s efforts to contain the pandemic. The Congress claims that the alleged ‘toolkit’ being tweeted by the BJP is fake.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/toolkit-probe-delhi-police-asks-two-congress-leaders-to-join-investigation-101621947320586.html
25-05-2021||India||Major fire breaks out at HPCL refinery in Vizag, no casualties reported||A major fire broke out due to a blast in one of the refineries of Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited (HPCL) in Andhra Pradesh’s Visakhapatnam on Tuesday afternoon, HT has learnt.An HPCL spokesman said the fire broke out in one of the crude processing units of the HPCL at around 3 pm. “Safety measures and firefighting was activated immediately and fire has been extinguished,” he said.Stating that the cooling operations had been taken up, the spokesman said there were no casualties in the mishap and there was no risk to the public. “The other refinery operations are continuing as normal,” he added.Visakhapatnam deputy commissioner of police Aishwarya Rastogi told reporters that the blast took place at Unit-3 of the HPCL refinery in the old terminal building.“Immediately, five fire tenders from the premises were pressed into service and more fire tenders were being rushed,” he said, adding that the exact reason for the fire was yet to be ascertained.Thick plumes of smoke billowed in the areas surrounding the HPCL plant, including Gajuwaka and Malkapuram areas on the outskirts of Visakhapatnam.Soon after the fire broke out, warning sirens were sounded and all the employees of the refinery were evacuated from the plant. Though it was suspected that at least six workers were trapped in the unit that exploded, it was later found that all of them managed to come out safely and no one was harmed in the incident.The HPCL authorities rushed a few ambulances to the spot to extend medical help to any worker who might have received injuries.Andhra Pradesh home minister Mekathoti Sucharita expressed shock over the refinery incident and spoke to senior police officials in Visakhapatnam to find out the details. She said apart from five fire tenders within the HPCL premises, another seven fire tenders were pressed into service to douse the fire.“There are no casualties or injuries. There is no need for the people of Visakhapatnam to be panicky,” she said.In September 1997, the HPCL, Visakhapatnam, witnessed the worst-ever fire accident killing 60 people and injuring 20 others. The fire started after an LPG pipeline leak caused an explosion in the storage area of the refinery.The blaze was still raging 12 hours after the explosion at around 6.30 am. About 70,000 people in the vicinity of the plant fled their homes to safer places. The local administration opened 10 relief camps in Visakhapatnam to accommodate the citizens till it was safe for them to return home.In August 2013, too, there was a similar fire accident in the HPCL. Two people were killed in the fire while 30 others got injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/major-fire-breaks-out-at-hpcl-refinery-in-vizag-no-casualties-reported-101621947191638.html
25-05-2021||India||Congress seeks recall of Lakshadweep administrator over draconian measures||The Congress on Tuesday demanded the recall of Lakshadweep administrator Praful Khoda Patel and withdrawal of all “unilateral and anti-people” orders issued and promulgated during his tenure while accusing him of attempting to destroy the region’s cultural heritage.“...I demand an immediate recall of Patel and withdrawal of all the draconian and authoritarian draft orders issued by him....” said Congress leader Ajay Maken.Praful Patel, a former Gujarat minister, took charge as the administrator in December.Maken questioned how someone without any experience in civil service or military can be appointed as the administrator. He said Patel was made the administrator to fulfil Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s ideological objective and to ensure the presence of a representative of the party in Muslim-majority Lakshadweep.Also Read | Congress to Twitter: Tag as ‘manipulated media’ tweets of Union ministersPatel has introduced several contentious regulations including the Draft Lakshadweep Development Authority Regulation, 2021, which gives the administrator powers to remove or relocate islanders from their property for town planning or any developmental activity. Under the Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Act (PASA), introduced in January 2021, a person can be detained without any public disclosure for up to one year. As per another notification, a panchayat member with more than two children will be disqualified.Maken questioned the need for PASA in an area with the lowest crime record in the country. “Lakshadweep has near 0% crime rate... what is the need for an authoritarian and draconian order like PASA?”The administrator has also taken over the control of the powers of elected zilla panchayat related to education, health care, agriculture, animal husbandry and fisheries.Patel has given a go-ahead to open liquor bars in the island, a non-alcoholic zone due to its Muslim population, to promote tourism. He has also imposed a beef ban and ordered vegetarian food at Anganwadis. The Congress has said the local people fear that “all these unilateral and anti-people decisions would ultimately lead to the destruction of traditional livelihood and unique culture of Lakshadweep.”On Monday, Congress leader K C Venugopal wrote a letter to President Ram Nath Kovind seeking Patel’s recall while calling his measures authoritarian.Lakshadweep parliament member Mohammad Faizal has also urged the Centre to recall Patel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-seeks-recall-of-lakshadweep-administrator-over-draconian-measures-101621947070981.html
25-05-2021||India||BJP cadre asked to cover 100k villages to mark PM Modi govt’s 7th yr at Centre||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has set a target of covering 100,000 villages and organising 50,000 blood donation camps across the country to mark the party’s seventh year in power at the Centre on May 30.Instead of public programmes this year, the focus would be on relief programmes in the wake of the ongoing second wave of the pandemic.At a meeting of the national office bearers, party president JP Nadda said on Monday that workers will have to redouble efforts to reach out to people with needs.However, these relief programmes will have to be conducted without breaching any Covid appropriate protocol, said a party functionary. According to two other senior functionaries who are privy to the meeting, Nadda also stressed on ensuring that functionaries as well as the cadre on the ground do not indulge in any form of “political blame game”.Also Read | Congress to Twitter: Tag as ‘manipulated media’ tweets of Union ministers“The Opposition has been trying to politicise the pandemic and create an impression that the government did not make the required efforts to provide healthcare and vaccines for the people. At a time like this, party workers have been told to ensure that they focus only on providing relief,” said the second functionary cited above.Opposition parties, including the Congress, have alleged that the Union government did not make efforts to procure vaccines and also failed to ramp up infrastructure for medical care.The party, which also faces a clutch of elections next year, has now begun preparations to mitigate the anger on the ground through its Seva hi Sangathan campaign.On Saturday, HT had reported that all BJP-ruled states have been asked to draft and implement a policy for supporting children who have lost both their parents during the pandemic. A third functionary said members of Parliament, MLAs and other elected representatives have also been asked to oversee relief activity in their respective constituencies and states. “There are many MPs who have begun the process of organising relief camps and setting up helplines. They have also been asked to compile reports of the work they undertook and share it with the party high command,” said a third functionary.The functionary said the party has highlighted three areas for carrying out work; providing food and essentials; providing medicines, and helping people in the rural areas access healthcare facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-cadre-asked-to-cover-100k-villages-to-mark-pm-modi-govt-s-7th-yr-at-centre-101621946290701.html
25-05-2021||India||1971 Indo-Pak war decorated Army veteran loses battle with Covid-19||Colonel Panjab Singh, a 1971 Indo-Pak war hero, who with a handful of soldiers repulsed an attack by a Pakistani Army battalion and defended a strategic point in Poonch, died of post-Covid complications on Monday, HT has learnt. The Vir Chakra recipient passed away at the age of 79 at Command Hospital, Chandimandir, said Defence spokesperson, Lieutenant colonel Devender Anand.Recently, Colonel Panjab Singh successfully recovered from Covid-19 but due to some medical complications post his recovery, he left for heavenly abode on Monday, Anand added. Born on February 15, 1942, Singh was commissioned into the 6th Batallion of the SIKH Regiment on December 16, 1967. He went on to have the honour of commanding the prestigious Battalion from October 12, 1986, to July 29, 1990. In the 1971 war, during Operation Cactus Lilly, 6 SIKH occupied 13 kilometres of frontage on the heights above Poonch covering two strategic points, the loss of which would have directly threatened Poonch. “Col Panjab Singh, VrC (Retd) then a Major, was commanding a company deployed at Tund which had been actually limited to a platoon with the company headquarter. The enemy attacked the position with more than a Battalion on December 3, 1971, supported by artillery and mortar fire. The next 72hours were classical defensive battle fought by the fierce soldiers of 6 SIKH under the inspiring command of Col (then Major) Panjab Singh. The enemy came as close as few meters to the defences. Col Panjab, with complete disregard for his safety, moved from trench to trench and ensured that all weapons under his command engaged the assaulting force till the attacking force retreated leaving behind their dead and weapons. The enemy attacked the position nine times over two nights which were similarly foiled. For this brave act, he was awarded the prestigious Vir Chakra on December 24, 1971,” said Col Anand.Post-retirement, Col Panjab Singh was the director of Sainik Welfare, Himachal Pradesh, and dedicated himself to the welfare of the veteran’s fraternity. “He was also the vice president, Indian Ex-Service League, Himachal Pradesh of Southern Area. A popular gentleman, as a veteran he continued to inspire a generation of young officers who were lucky to interact with him. He leaves behind a proud legacy of a brave soldier and a gentleman,” said the spokesman. Unfortunately, on May 21, his elder son Anil Kumar also succumbed to the Covid-19. Col Singh is survived by his wife Vidya Devi, their daughter Usha, son Ajay Kumar, son-in-law Lt Gen DP Pandey, daughters-in-law Smriti, Suman and grandchildren.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1971-indo-pak-war-decorated-army-veteran-loses-battle-with-covid19-101621945752266.html
25-05-2021||India||Centre cautions Union Territories over surge in Covid-19 cases||Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla on Tuesday cautioned Union Territories (UTs) over surges in Covid-19 cases and asked them to remain vigilant to the situation as he chaired a meeting to review the management of the pandemic in the federally administered regions.He advised the UTs to learn from their experiences and to keep pace with testing and vaccination rates, besides enforcing appropriate behaviour and strengthening the medical infrastructure.Jammu & Kashmir was lauded at the meeting for performing reasonably well in mitigating the second Covid-19 wave with 3,946 cases per million population being reported over the last two weeks. The region has reported 62 deaths per million during the same period.Also Read | Delhi adds 1,568 new Covid cases, 156 deaths; positivity rate drops to 2.14%Jammu & Kashmir chief secretary BVR Subrahmanyam said they have enhanced both testing and vaccination capacities. “The early detection of infection has allowed for timely medical intervention, whereas vaccination was found to reduce the severity of disease in patients... both strategies have been successful in restricting Covid-related fatalities in the UT,” he said. Subrahmanyam credited timely response for reduction of cases from an all-time high of 5,500 to 2200 in two weeks. There was a reduction in the case positivity rate from 13% to 6.2% during the same time. Subrahmanyam said more cases were now being reported from rural than urban areas. He added they plan to establish five-bedded Covid care facilities with at least one oxygen-supported bed at approximately 4,000 Panchayats to provide immediate medical care. Twin 500-bedded temporary hospitals were also being established by the Defence Research and Development Organisation in Jammu and Srinagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-cautions-union-territories-over-surge-in-covid-19-cases-101621944791283.html
25-05-2021||India||India approves opening of first consulate in the Maldives||The Indian government on Tuesday approved the opening of a new consulate in Addu City of the Maldives this year to augment the country’s diplomatic presence in the Indian Ocean archipelago. A meeting of the Union cabinet, chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, cleared the proposal for opening the first such consulate in the Maldives, which has an important place in the government’s “Neighbourhood First” policy. “Opening of a consulate general in Addu City will help augment India’s diplomatic presence in Maldives and make it commensurate with the existing and aspired level of engagement,” an official statement said. “This is also a forward-looking step in pursuit of our national priority of growth and development or ‘Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas’. Augmentation of India’s diplomatic presence will...provide market access for Indian companies and bolster Indian exports of goods and services,” the statement added. Also Read | In Nepal’s political theatre, Delhi risks eroding strategic gains by backing OliThe opening of the consulate will also have a “direct impact in augmenting domestic production and employment in line with our goal of a self-reliant India or Atmanirbhar Bharat,” according to the statement. India and Maldives share ethnic, linguistic, cultural, religious and commercial links steeped in antiquity. Maldives occupies an important place in the ‘Neighbourhood First Policy’ and the ‘SAGAR’ (Security and Growth for All in the Region) vision of the Government of India. Indians are the second largest expatriate community in the Maldives, with an approximate strength of 22,000. About 25% of doctors and teachers in the Maldives are Indians. India is currently implementing large infrastructure projects worth $2 billion, such as ports, roads, bridges, water and sanitation, in the Maldives. Bilateral relations have also benefited from President Ibrahim Solih’s “India First” policy. The Maldives also received considerable assistance from India since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. It was the first country to receive made-in-India vaccines in January, when New Delhi gifted 100,000 doses. This was preceded by health and humanitarian assistance provided in 2020, including nearly 12 tonnes of medicines, and a soft loan of $250 million for budgetary support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-approves-opening-of-first-consulate-in-the-maldives-101621943470902.html
25-05-2021||India||We need Taiwan as observer at WHA and Covid investigation, says US||Addressing the 74th World Health Assembly (WHA) on Tuesday United States secretary of health and human services Xavier Becerra said the world leaders must do more to understand the current pandemic and look forward toward detecting, preparing, and responding to future biological threats."The Phase 2 of the Covid origins study must be launched with terms of reference that are transparent, science-based, and give international experts the independence to fully assess the source of the virus and the early days of the outbreak," Becerra said.He stressed the need to implement and adhere to obligations under the international health regulations."We need to improve transparency, immediately share critical information about outbreaks with pandemic potential, and strengthen health systems to withstand shocks," he said.ALSO READ: At WHA talk-shop, countries mull WHO reforms and rebuilding post-Covid worldHe also reiterated the US' demand for inclusion of Taiwan as an observer. "Global collaboration will be key in tackling the many challenges still before us. Collaboration with non-state actors must continue, and we must invite Taiwan to be a part of the World Health Assembly as an observer," he said.China considers Taiwan as its undisputed territory and retaliates at any country which wants to have separate and independent diplomatic ties with Taipei. For US to ask for Taiwan to become an observer at the WHA is akin to showing the red flag to president Xi Jinping."The Covid-19 pandemic not only stole a year from our lives, it stole millions of lives," he said at the gathering."The challenges before us are many, but not insurmountable," Becerra acknowledged.He praised the pan-American health organisations for leading efforts to combat the pandemic and deliver much needed supplies and vaccines to our neighbors in the Americas as well as AFRO and its concurrent work to respond to multiple Ebola outbreaks on top of Covid-19."Now we must honor our departed by taking urgent action this year – to strengthen health security and pandemic preparedness so that we are better prepared for the next global health crisis," he said, adding, "This means improving global triggers, so all countries take swift action toward the next biological threat."He stressed the need for developing surge capacity for the global manufacturing of personal protective equipment, vaccines, therapeutics, diagnostics, and the healthcare workforce."Together, we must address racial, gender and other forms of inequality, promote sexual and reproductive health and rights, and strive for equity across society," he said.The WHO kicked off the main annual gathering of World Health Assembly with 194 member states on Monday with all eyes on the global response to Covid-19 - and what concrete steps can be taken to avert future pandemics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-need-taiwan-as-observer-at-wha-and-covid-investigation-says-us-101621940847031.html
25-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Covid vaccinations will increase as production rises, says Gagandeep Kang and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Vaccination rates will rise as production increases': virologist Gagandeep KangGagandeep Kang on Tuesday said that there is a global shortage of vaccines and India has to take a decision on whether it wants to buy vaccines developed by either Chinese or Russian vaccination companies. Read moreIn Nepal’s political theatre, Delhi risks eroding strategic gains by backing OliA fresh political crisis is brewing in Nepal. President Bidhya Bhandari has dissolved the Parliament and called for fresh elections on the recommendation of Prime Minister K.P. Oli, but not without the drama that is part and parcel of Nepali politics. Read moreWho will win India vs New Zealand World Test Championship final? Legendary Richard Hadlee has his sayAhead of the summit clash in Southampton, England which begins on June 18, legendary New Zealand fast bowler Richard Hadlee shared his thoughts on the first-ever WTC final in the history of cricket. Read moreHyundai on EV offensive and Ioniq 6 and Ioniq 7 to carry forward chargeHyundai has big and mighty plans for its upcoming Ioniq 5 electric vehicle which is scheduled for an official launch later this this year but in its battery-powered arsenal are more products that would seek to make Hyundai a formidable player in the EV space. Read moreMalaika Arora aces a neat Camatkarasana to improve self confidence with YogaWe don’t know how she does it but Malaika Arora makes even the most complex of exercises look effortless and this week was no different as she nailed Yoga’s Camatkarasana in a neat manner. Read more‘Sputnik V, Sputnik Lite are reliable like Kalashnikovs…’: Russian deputy EnvoyRussian Deputy Envoy Roman Babushkin said Sputnik Lite, the single dose Covid vaccine’s promotion and distribution in India would be very helpful. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-covid-19-vaccinations-will-increase-as-production-rises-says-virologist-gagandeep-kang-and-all-the-latest-news-101621941385750.html
25-05-2021||India||‘Vaccination rates will rise as production increases': virologist Gagandeep Kang||Virologist and member of Supreme Court-appointed committee on allocation of medical oxygen Gagandeep Kang on Tuesday said that there is a global shortage of vaccines and India has to take a decision on whether it wants to buy vaccines developed by either Chinese or Russian vaccination companies.She said that a decision should be taken on procurement of vaccines until Indian companies begin production. She also said that vaccination rates will go up as soon as companies ramp up production. “There is a global vaccine shortage and we can import vaccines but the vaccines made in China and Russia are the only ones available hence we have to decide which vaccines we are willing to buy until Indian companies ramp up production,” Dr Kang was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.India’s Panacea Biotec and the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) on Monday announced that full-scale production of Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine is slated to begin this summer. The Russian sovereign wealth fund has tied up with Gland Pharma, Hetero Biopharma, Panacea Biotec, Stelis Biopharma and Virchow Biotech to produce at least 850 million doses a year in India. India has not made any deals with China so far regarding procurement of Covid-19 vaccines.“Vaccinations are slow as there is no or limited supply. There were supposed to be more doses of vaccines available but as companies step up production vaccination rates will go up,” Kang further added.Several states in India have written to the Centre regarding halting of vaccination drives due to lack of vaccines. The Punjab and Delhi governments have also said that their vaccine procurement requests were turned down by vaccine companies Moderna and Pfizer. According to the health ministry on Monday, India has so far vaccinated at least 196 million people out of which 43.1 million people have been administered with both doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccination-rates-will-rise-as-production-increases-virologist-gagandeep-kang-101621941165219.html
25-05-2021||India||Fire at HPCL’s plant in Visakhapatnam, no casualty reported||A major fire broke out at one of the crude processing units of the Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited’s (HPCL’s) plant in Andhra Pradesh’s Visakhapatnam on Tuesday afternoon, the state-run company said. “A fire incident occurred in one of the crude processing units of HPCL’s Visakh Refinery today. Safety measures & firefighting was activated immediately. The fire has been extinguished. There is no casualty & no risk to the public. Other Refinery operations are normal,” HPCL said in a tweet.No casualties have been reported but a few workers are said to be trapped in the unit. All the employees of HPCL in the nearby units have been evacuated, officials said. Ambulances also have been rushed to the spot, they added.“As per information, a blast was reported at Unit-3 plant in HPCL. Five fire tenders are present at the spot. More fire tenders are being rushed. The cause of the incident is yet to be ascertained,” deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Aishwarya Rastogi was quoted as saying by ANI earlier.Images tweeted by ANI showed huge flames and smoke billowing out of the HPCL plant.“There was a deafening sound like a blast and there was a ball of fire. The siren was sounded and we all came running out to safety," a worker said, according to news agency PTI.The HPCL’s Vizag refinery has three crude units.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fire-at-hpcl-s-plant-in-visakhapatnam-no-casualties-reported-101621940505805.html
25-05-2021||India||Congress to Twitter: Tag as ‘manipulated media’ tweets of Union ministers||The Congress on Tuesdaywrote to Twitter urging it to tag as “manipulated media” tweets of Union ministers for “spreading false and malicious propaganda” related to the alleged toolkit, which the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has claimed was made to defame Prime Minister Narendra Modi and build a biased narrative over Covid-19 management, and the Central Vista project.This comes days after Twitter last week flagged as manipulated media BJP national spokesperson Sambit Patra’s tweet with details of the alleged Congress toolkit. Several BJP leaders and Union ministers amplified Patra’s tweet.The government has written to Twitter to express its displeasure over the tagging of Patra’s tweet. The Delhi Police on Monday said they have sought a clarification from Twitter in connection with the tagging. Police officers also visited Twitter’s offices and to issue summons to Twitter’s managing director Manish Maheshwari related to the probe into the toolkit.Also Read | After Delhi Police’s visit to Twitter office, Rahul Gandhi tweets about truthIn his letter to Twitter, Congress spokesman Randeep Surjewala has cited links to the tweets of 11 Union ministers including Piyush Goyal, Harsh Vardhan, Ramesh Pokhriyal, Ravi Shankar Prasad, and Smriti Irani for action. “You would appreciate that the forged, fabricated material and the claims made under the malicious #CongressToolkitExposed, by the various ministers above-named, is identical to the material that has already marked as ‘manipulative media’, by Twitter, on various accounts including that of the BJP Spokesperson- Mr. Sambit Patra (@sambitswaraj,” he wrote. “...people tend to believe ‘true’ and take on face value, any information that is put up directly by a Union Minister of the Government of India through his/her official/verified Twitter account.” Surjewala argued it becomes even more important that their tweets are also classified as manipulated media. He added ministers should be dealt with the same yardstick.Twitter defines any media (videos, audios, and images) that have been deceptively altered or fabricated as manipulated. Tweets are labelled under this category when they are “likely to cause harm”.Congress last week wrote to Twitter seeking the removal of BJP chief J P Nadda, Irani, Patra, and B L Santosh’s tweets about the toolkit and to permanently suspend their accounts. Two Congress leaders have filed a complaint seeking a first information report against BJP leaders for allegedly “forging documents, and circulating fabricated material on Twitter under the hashtag CongressToolkitExposed.”There was no immediate response from BJP or Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-asks-twitter-to-tag-as-manipulated-media-tweets-of-ministers-101621938911062.html
25-05-2021||India||Aarogya Setu will display vaccination status, double blue ticks for fully vaccinated||The Aarogya Setu mobile application, India’s contact tracing app introduced last year during the early months of the coronavirus pandemic, has now been upgraded to also indicate a person’s vaccination status. The app is used for contact tracing and also for the dissemination of medical advisories intended to contain the spread of Covid-19 in India and is currently maintained by the National Informatics Centre (NIC). “Now your Vaccination Status can be updated on Aarogya Setu. Get your self vaccinated - Get the Double Blue Ticks and Get the Blue Shield,” Aarogya Setu tweeted on Tuesday.The application uses Bluetooth technology and the personal contact number of a person to mark them as either Covid-19 positive or negative. All Covid-19 test results are uploaded by the laboratory which analysed the samples to the Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR’s) online portal. Once a person tests positive for the coronavirus disease, ICMR then shares the user’s contact number with the Aarogya Setu based on which the person is marked as Covid-19 positive in the app—indicated by status changed to red colour).Apart from the Co-WIN digital platform used for Covid-19 vaccinations, the government has said that the Aarogya Setu app could also be used by the beneficiaries to register themselves.India’s vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease commenced on January 16 and is currently in its third phase, during which all people above 18 years of age are eligible to receive the vaccine. Two vaccines—Covishield manufactured by the Serum Institute of India and Covaxin manufactured by Bharat Biotech—are being used for inoculation in India. Lately Russian-made Sputnik V vaccine has also received approval for usage in the country. According to the latest data from the Union ministry of health and family welfare, 198,538,999 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine have been administered to eligible beneficiaries in the country as of 8am on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aarogya-setu-will-display-vaccination-status-double-blue-ticks-for-fully-vaccinated-101621938102863.html
25-05-2021||India||Covid-19 cannot be a ground for anticipatory bail, says SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday held that apprehension of death due to the worsening Covid-19 situation cannot be a ground to grant anticipatory bail to an accused. The order was passed on a petition filed by Uttar Pradesh government challenging a May 10 order of the Allahabad high court which granted protection from arrest to a man citing the worsening pandemic situation in Uttar Pradesh.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who appeared for the state, had requested for a stay on the order on an apprehension that the same would be cited by other accused before various courts. A vacation bench of justices Vineet Saran and BR Gavai stayed the high court observations and appointed senior advocate V Giri to assist the court as amicus curiae. The court issued notice on the state’s plea and agreed to hear the petition in the first week of July.The bench, however, did not stay the bail granted to the accused, one Prateek Jain, facing 130 criminal cases but made it clear that if the accused did not appear on the next date, the bail granted to him will stand cancelled and the HC order subsequently stayed. The HC allowed the accused to remain on anticipatory bail till January 3, 2022, considering the news of a possible third wave of infections by September this year. Also Read | Provide ration, meals to migrants, Supreme Court tells statesMehta told the court that the HC passed sweeping observations without considering the facts of the case and the gravity of the offences against the accused. The bench said, “The observations (made by HC) shall remain stayed.” It further added that courts in the country, while considering bail petitions, will solely go by the merits of the case and not by the observations made in the Allahabad HC order.The Uttar Pradesh government had filed the plea on the ground whether an accused needs to be protected till the threat of novel coronavirus to their life is minimised or eradicated. The accused had sought protection from arrest before high court, claiming that he would be vulnerable to Covid in a crowded jail without proper medical facilities. Without adopting the common yardsticks provided under law to deal with anticipatory bail applications, the single-judge HC bench of Justice Siddharth said, “extraordinary times require extraordinary remedy and desperate times require remedial remedy”. “The apprehension of an accused being infected with novel coronavirus before and after his arrest, and the possibility of his spreading the same while coming into contact with the police, court and jail personnel or vice-versa can be considered to be a valid ground for grant of anticipatory bail to an accused,” the bench observed. It further held that in cases where a charge sheet has been filed or warrants issued against an accused, “such an accused is required to be protected till the threat of novel coronavirus to his life is minimised or eradicated and normal functioning of the courts is restored”. The bench had also relied on a Supreme Court judgment from earlier this month that ordered the release of prisoners granted bail or parole to decongest jails in view of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-cannot-be-a-ground-for-anticipatory-bail-says-sc-101621936750592.html
25-05-2021||India||Cyclone Yaas may cause maximum damage in Odisha’s Chandbali: IMD||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Tuesday severe cyclonic storm Yaas may make landfall between Dhamra and Chandbali areas of Odisha's Bhadrak district early on Wednesday. Yaas is likely to intensify into a very severe cyclonic storm by Tuesday evening and Chandbali is likely to witness the maximum damage, IMD’s director general Mrutyunjay Mohapatra said.Also read | Odisha braces for Cyclone Yaas, issues red alert for 4 districts“It is expected to intensify into a very severe cyclonic storm on May 26 and cross the coast somewhere near Chandbali in Bhadrak district with wind speed of 155-165 km per hour accompanied by gusts of 185 km per hour. The impact of Cyclone Yaas will be high six hours before and after the landfall. Big trees and electric poles may get uprooted. Chandbali is likely to witness maximum damage due to the cyclone,” Mohapatra added.Also watch: Cyclone Yaas to intensify into 'very severe cyclonic storm'; prep ramped upThe system is likely to cause heavy rain over large parts of West Bengal and Odisha on Tuesday and Wednesday. "Rain has already started and will continue. Wind speeds in Kendrapara and Jagatsinghpur districts will reach around 80kmph by midnight," he was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.IMD said in its latest bulletin issued at 9.10am on Tuesday that Yaas is likely to move north-northwestwards and intensify further into a very severe cyclonic storm during the next 12 hours. The system has been moving north-northwestwards at a speed of 10kmph during the past six hours. It lays centred around 320km south-southeast of Paradip (Odisha), 430km south-southeast of Balasore (Odisha) and 420km south- southeast of Digha (West Bengal) at 5.30am, it said.Also read | Cyclone Yaas inches closer, West Bengal to evacuate around a million peopleSqually wind speeds reaching 50-60kmph gusting to 70kmph are prevailing over north Bay of Bengal and along and off Andhra Pradesh-Odisha-West Bengal-Bangladesh coasts, the weather bureau said. Wind speeds will increase to 155-165kmph gusting to 185kmph over northwest Bay of Bengal and along and off north Odisha and adjoining West Bengal coasts including Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapara, Bhadrak, Balasore districts of Odisha during landfall, it added.Wind speeds may increase to 100-120kmph gusting to 145kmph in Odisha's Mayurbhanj district and West Bengal's Purba Medinipur and South 24 Parganas districts. Wind speeds reaching 80-90kmph gusting to 110kmph will prevail over Odisha's Puri, Cuttack, Khurda and Jajpur districts and West Bengal's Jhargram, Paschim Medinipur and North 24 Parganas districts during the period. Yaas is also expected to cause a storm surge of 2-4 metres along the coastline of Purba Medinipur and 1-2 metres in South 24 Parganas.Authorities began evacuating thousands of people to safety on Tuesday as a "severe" Cyclone Yaas neared, days after another cyclone battered the west coast of the country leaving a trail of death and destruction. Odisha’s special relief commissioner Pradip Jena said district collectors have been asked to finish evacuation from the four coastal districts of Balasore, Bhadrak, Kendrapara and Jagatsinghpur by Tuesday afternoon. He added that arrangements have been made to accommodate up to 750,000 evacuaees in 7,000 shelters prepared for the purposed. “Zero casualty is the motto. We are leaving no stone unturned for saving lives,” Jena said. Fishermen have been asked not to venture out into the sea till further information. It warned of destruction to thatched houses, extensive damage to kutcha dwellings and some damage to pucca buildings in coastal and adjoining interior districts of West Bengal. IMD also warned of bending or uprooting of electric poles and disruption of railway services due to snapping of power lines and signalling systems, prompting the South Eastern Railway to cancel several passenger special trains till Wednesday.Also read | As Cyclone Yaas moves towards eastern coast, warning for these statesThe last time Odisha faced a cyclone was in May 2019 when Cyclone Fani ripped through Puri, Khurda and Cuttack districts, killing 64 people and affecting about 16.5 million people in more than 18,000 villages. It damaged an estimated 360,000 houses. Cyclone Titli killed 77 people in 2018, destroyed 260,000 hectare of agricultural land and over 60,000 houses and killed more than 35,000 domestic animals. In 2013, Cyclone Phailin wreaked havoc in the eastern state affecting over 1.1 million people and causing damages worth  ₹4,240 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-yaas-may-cause-maximum-damage-in-odisha-s-chandbali-says-imd-101621935852124.html
25-05-2021||India||21.89 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses provided to States, UTs so far||The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Tuesday said that more than 21.89 crore vaccine doses have been provided to States and Union Territories so far.It also said that 1,77,67,850 crore Covid vaccine doses are still available with the States and UTs to be administered.According to the Health Ministry, the Centre has so far provided, both through the free of cost category and through direct state procurement category, more than 21.89 crore vaccine doses (21,89,69,250) to states and union territories."Of this, the total consumption, including wastages is 19,93,39,750 doses (as per data available at 8 am today)," the ministry said.Furthermore, 7 lakh vaccine doses are in the pipeline and will be received by the states and UTs within the next three days.It further said that the Government of India has also been facilitating direct procurement of vaccines by the states and UTs."Vaccination is an integral pillar of the comprehensive strategy of Government of India for containment and management of the pandemic, along with Test, Track, Treat and COVID Appropriate Behaviour," it added.The implementation of the liberalised and accelerated phase-3 strategy of Covid-19 vaccination has started from May 1, 2021."Under the strategy, in every month 50 per cent of the total Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL) cleared vaccine doses of any manufacturer would be procured by Govt. of India. It would continue to make these doses available to the state governments totally free of cost as was being done earlier," it further added.As per the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, a total of 19,85,38,999 vaccine doses have been administered through 28,41,151 sessions, as per the provisional report till 7 am today. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2189-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-provided-to-states-uts-so-far-101621934358860.html
25-05-2021||India||Black fungus declared as notified disease in these states||With the cases of Mucormycosis, commonly known as the black fungus, seeing a steady rise across the country amid an-already ravaging second wave of the coronavirus disease pandemic, several states declared the fungal infection a notified disease under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897.READ MORE: What is Mucormycosis and how deadly is it? Know everything about Black FungusThe Union health ministry has urged states and Union territories to make black fungus a notified disease under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, stating that the infection is leading to prolonged morbidity and mortality among Covid-19 patients. A notified disease is required by law to be reported to the government authorities. The collection of information allows the authorities to monitor the disease and provide early warning of possible outbreaks.Here is a list of states that have declared Mucormycosis a notified disease:1. Telangana—Soon after the Centre’s notification last Thursday, Telangana was the Mucormycosis a notified disease.2. Odisha--The Odisha government, too, declared Mucormycosis as a notified disease on May 21 after the state reported its first case on May 10.3. Rajasthan--Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has said that the black fungus infection has been notified as an epidemic in Rajasthan and said that the health department is required to have complete details of patients infected by it.4. Karnataka--Karnataka health minister K Sudhakar declared black fungus a notified disease.5. Tamil Nadu--The Tamil Nadu government has declared black fungus a notified disease under the Public Health Act.6. Uttarakhand--The Uttarakhand government declared black fungus as a notified disease in the state under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. The state government has also issued an SOP for distribution of Amphotericin B, a drug used in treating black fungus patients.7. Bihar--Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar announced black fungus as a notified disease under the provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act.8. Madhya Pradesh--The Madhya Pradesh government declared black fungus a notified disease in the state under the provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act and the Madhya Pradesh Public Health Act.9. Gujarat--According to a statement by Gujarat CMO, the state declared black fungus an epidemic in the state. “Government and private hospitals/medical colleges treating the disease will have to follow guidelines by Union health ministry as well as ICMR for screening, diagnosis and treatment," the statement read.10.Maharashtra--Maharashtra is the latest state to classify black fungus as a notified disease.11.Andhra Pradesh--The Andhra Pradesh government has notified mucormycosis under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/black-fungus-declared-as-notified-disease-in-these-states-101621930175465.html
25-05-2021||India||Mild Covid-19 induces lasting antibody protection, study finds||Months after recovering from mild cases of Covid-19, people still have immune cells which produce antibodies against the novel coronavirus, according to a study.The researchers from Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis, US, noted that such cells could persist for a lifetime, churning out antibodies all the while.The study, published on Monday in the journal Nature, suggests that mild cases of Covid-19 leave those infected with lasting antibody protection and that repeated bouts of illness are likely to be uncommon."Last fall, there were reports that antibodies wane quickly after infection with the virus that causes Covid-19, and mainstream media interpreted that to mean that immunity was not long-lived," said senior author of the study Ali Ellebedy, an associate professor at Washington University School of Medicine."But that's a misinterpretation of the data. It's normal for antibody levels to go down after acute infection, but they don't go down to zero; they plateau," Ellebedy said.The researchers found antibody-producing cells in people 11 months after first symptoms.These cells will live and produce antibodies for the rest of people's lives, and that's strong evidence for long-lasting immunity, they said.During a viral infection, antibody-producing immune cells rapidly multiply and circulate in the blood, driving antibody levels sky-high.Once the infection is resolved, most such cells die off, and blood antibody levels drop.A small population of antibody-producing cells, called long-lived plasma cells, migrate to the bone marrow and settle in, the researchers said.In the bone marrow, these cells continually secrete low levels of antibodies into the bloodstream to help guard against another encounter with the virus, they said.Ellebedy and colleagues were already working on a project to track antibody levels in blood samples from Covid-19 survivors.The team had enrolled 77 participants who were giving blood samples at three-month intervals starting about a month after initial infection.Most participants had had mild cases of Covid-19, only six had been hospitalised.The researchers obtained bone marrow from 18 of the participants seven or eight months after their initial infections.Five of them came back four months later and provided a second bone marrow sample.For comparison, the scientists also obtained bone marrow from 11 people who had never had Covid-19.They found that antibody levels in the blood of the Covid-19 participants dropped quickly in the first few months after infection and then mostly levelled off, with some antibodies detectable even 11 months after infection.Fifteen of the 19 bone marrow samples from people who had had Covid-19 contained antibody-producing cells specifically targeting the virus that causes Covid-19, the researchers said.Such cells could still be found four months later in the five people who came back to provide a second bone-marrow sample, they said.According to the researchers, none of the 11 people who had never had Covid-19 had such antibody-producing cells in their bone marrow."People with mild cases of Covid-19 clear the virus from their bodies two to three weeks after infection, so there would be no virus driving an active immune response seven or 11 months after infection," Ellebedy said."These cells are not dividing. They are quiescent, just sitting in the bone marrow and secreting antibodies. They have been doing that ever since the infection resolved, and they will continue doing that indefinitely," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mild-covid-19-induces-lasting-antibody-protection-study-finds-101621934367963.html
25-05-2021||India||Chennai school teacher arrested over sexual harassment complaints||A Chennai schoolteacher was arrested late on Monday for allegedly sexually harassing multiple students, Shankar Jiwal, the city police commissioner said. He was produced before a magistrate on Tuesday and remanded in judicial custody.The teacher has been booked under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, Indian Penal Code’s Sections 354 A (sexual harassment) and 509 (insulting modesty of a woman) as well as provisions of the Information Technology Act related to publishing or transmitting obscene material in electronic form and that containing sexually explicit act.An alumna of the school where the teacher taught was the first to accuse him of sexual misconduct during online and physical classes. The allegations went viral on Sunday. The following day, around 1,000 alumni of the school wrote to the management seeking immediate action. The alumni expressed disappointment that the school had not taken action despite complaints against the teacher, who taught at the school for over 20 years.Also Read | TN govt seeks ban on Family Man-2 web seriesThe school denied having received complaints but said that it would look into the allegations and suspended the teacher.Students have complained that the teacher would crack inappropriate jokes about the body parts of women and show up in a towel wrapped around his waist for the online classes. He also allegedly asked a student to watch a movie with him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chennai-school-teacher-arrested-over-sexual-harassment-complaints-101621933870302.html
25-05-2021||India||Post-poll violence: SC issues notice to Bengal government||The Supreme Court on Tuesday sought response from the West Bengal government and police on the post-poll violence in the state that reportedly resulted in mass exodus of lakhs of people, including women and children.Issuing notice on a petition filed by a Delhi-based social worker Arun Mukherjee and four others, a vacation bench of justices Vineet Saran and BR Gavai agreed to hear the matter in the week commencing June 7. By this date, the court has directed the state government and police to file counter affidavits, explaining the allegations of inaction by state authorities in curbing the violence. The petition accused the police of shielding the perpetrators alleged to be workers of the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) party and threatening the victims to withdraw their complaints.Appearing for the petitioners, senior advocate Pinky Anand told the court that several human rights bodies such as the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), the National Commission for Women (NCW) and National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) had visited the victims and prepared reports on the trauma suffered by them. Anand made an oral request to the court to make the NHRC, NCW and NCPCR as parties to the petition and issue notice to them.The court allowed the request and added the NHRC, NCW, NCPCR, the National Commission for Scheduled Castes and National Commission for Scheduled Tribes as parties.The petition claimed that on May 2, soon after declaration of the assembly poll results, widespread incidents of loot, rape and murder took place where families of Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) were targeted. Lead petitioner Mukherjee, who runs a social organisation catering to welfare of Bengali community across the country, received several distress calls from affected families in the state. Fearing for their life, many families left the state leaving their homes and livelihood behind. The displaced families were settled in camps in Assam. Also Read | Provide ration, meals to migrants, Supreme Court tells statesThe petitioners requested for a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to be set up to register the cases and probe the complicity of the state agencies. “The attacks suggest a larger conspiracy to crush the political opposition and their supporters in the state,” the petition stated, referring to the victims being families associated or working for the BJP. In addition, it demanded an inquiry commission to assess the scale and causes behind such large-scale displacement. The petition further sought long-term relief by way of rehabilitation of the displaced persons, compensation for loss of family members, property, livelihood, and for the mental and emotional agony suffered by them. As the families have been surviving in harsh conditions in the camp during times of a pandemic, the petition requested for directions from court to provide food, medicines, pandemic resources, and appropriate medical facilities in the light of Covid-19 pandemic . According to the data gathered by the petitioners, people from Cooochbehar, Kamakhyaguri, Tufanganj, Alpiurdaur, Falimari, Rampur villages in Bengal took shelter at refugee camps in Rangapali and Srirampur in Assam. The Union government is also party to the petition. The petition asked the court to consider directing the Centre for using its power under Article 355 of the Constitution and pass executive orders to ensure rule of law in the state. “The respondents by way of their action/inaction have led to a condition where rule of law no longer prevails in Bengal, democracy has been murdered, fundamental rights are breached, fascism and humanitarian crisis has arrived,” the petition stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/postpoll-violence-sc-issues-notice-to-bengal-government-101621933750857.html
25-05-2021||India||Covid: Daily recoveries outnumber new cases in Maharashtra's Aurangabad district||The daily count of Covid-19 recoveries has outnumbered the fresh infections in the last one month in Maharashtra's Aurangabad district, an official said on Tuesday. The district on Monday (May 24) recorded 326 Covid-19 cases, which is a marked decline from April 24, when it saw 1,497 new infections, the official said. The present Covid-19 positivity rate stands at 4.75 per cent, and there are 5,284 active cases in the district, he said. At least 23,249 people tested positive for the infection from April 24 to May 24, and 31,473 were discharged from hospitals after recovery in this period, the official said. The district has so far recorded 1,40,737 infections, including 1,32,361 recoveries and 3,092 deaths, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-daily-recoveries-outnumber-new-cases-in-maharashtra-s-aurangabad-district-101621932283794.html
25-05-2021||India||'Sputnik V vaccine supplies in accordance to contract,' says Russia||Various Indian states are requesting Russia to supply doses of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine Sputnik V to them and these requests are being studied "very carefully", Russian deputy envoy to India Roman Babushkin said, according to news agency ANI.Sputnik V, considered the world's first registered vaccine against Covid-19, was being exported according to the "contract obligations," the Russian deputy envoy added."Supplies of Sputnik V are going on according to the contract obligations and schedules. We are getting some more requests from other Indian companies and state governments and all proposals are being studied very carefully," he said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageOn Monday, the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) and Panacea Biotec, one of the leading pharmaceutical producers in India launched the production of the Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine."Sputnik V is one of the vaccines which is included in the Indian mass vaccination drive and it speaks for itself. This company (Panacea Biotec) is one of the Indian partners which the Russian Direct Investment Fund and is developing a business partnership. The preliminary schedule is gradually is to reach 850 million doses in India per year. We know that there is interest from other business partners and even state governments, all these proposals we are studying very carefully," the envoy said.Also Read | Full-scale production of Sputnik V in India this summer: Russian developersHighlighting how "helpful" Russia's second single-dose vaccine 'Sputnik lite' would be for India, the envoy said, "As you know, the other Russian vaccine is very reliable. We say the Russians are reliable like Kalashnikovs because they are based on the technologies which are used for decades. As far as Sputnik lite is concerned, it is going through the third phase of clinical trials. We believe that the vaccine will be in production here because India is one of the leaders in the world in terms of the capacity of medicine production is a matter of shortest time."The Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) approved Sputnik V vaccine's usage in India April 12, and vaccination against coronavirus with the Russian vaccine started on May 14.This was the India's third vaccine against Covid-19, with the country already administering Covishield - the Oxford-Astrazeneca vaccine manufactured by the Serum Institute of India - and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin to its people.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sputnik-v-vaccine-supplies-in-accordance-to-contract-says-russia-101621919927490.html
25-05-2021||India||Afghan forces rescue 41 people from Taliban prison in Herat||Afghan forces rescued 41 people, including 19 security force members, from a Taliban prison in western Herat province on Monday night, the Special Operations Corps said in a statement, reported TOLOnews.The operation was launched in Marwa village of Pashtun Zarghon district of the province, the statement said, adding that "seven Taliban terrorists who were the prison keepers were killed during the operation.""The forces have also seized weapons during the operation and destroyed six motorcycles belonging to the Taliban," it said.Eight security force members were freed from a Taliban prison in an operation in northern Baghlan on Sunday night, the Ministry of Defense had said.The operation was launched in Amarkhil village of Baghlan-e-Jadid and the security force members who had been taken captive were released, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afghan-forces-rescue-41-people-from-taliban-prison-in-herat-101621931540931.html
25-05-2021||India||Aim to comply, discussing issues: Facebook on new social media guidelines||Facebook on Tuesday said it is working to comply with the rules notified in February to govern the online content and was discussing the provisions that “need more engagement” with the government even as the deadline for compliance is due to end on Tuesday. The company underlined it remains committed to people’s ability to freely and safely express themselves on the platformThe rules allow users to dispute action taken against them by social media intermediaries such as Facebook and Twitter and setting up a three-tier self-regulatory framework for so-called over the top (OTT) platforms like Amazon Prime and online news media entities.“We aim to comply with the provisions of the IT [Information Technology] rules and continue to discuss a few of the issues which need more engagement with the government. Pursuant to the IT Rules, we are working to implement operational processes and improve efficiencies,” a Facebook spokesperson said.The statement came a day after electronics and information technology ministry officials warned of stern action in case of non-compliance with the new guidelines such as appointments of chief compliance and grievance officers by social media intermediaries.An official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said so far none of the prominent significant social media intermediaries have sent the government any intimation of such appointments. “It is not necessary they inform the ministry. They can even furnish the details on the website. Either way, they have to comply,” the official said. “The rules were notified on February 25 and social media intermediaries have been given three months to comply.”Also Read | WhatsApp won’t limit users’ accessThe policy also includes bringing digital news publishers under the ambit of Section 69(A) of the Information Technology (IT) Act. The provision empowers the government to order the blocking of access to content that is considered a threat to public order. An officer, who will head an inter-ministerial committee at the apex of the self-regulatory system, can also issue this order under emergency circumstances where the companies will not be given a chance for explanation. The committee will have to meet within 48 hours to ratify the emergency block.The rules mandate increased due diligence by social media companies and data sharing, such as information about the first originator, with enforcement agencies. They define significant social media intermediaries as platforms that have five million users or above.Under part four of the guidelines, the intermediaries are required to appoint compliance officers, “responsible for ensuring compliance with the Act and rules” and be “liable in any proceedings relating to any relevant third-party information, data or communication link made available or hosted by that intermediary where he fails to ensure that such intermediary observes due diligence while discharging its duties under the Act”.Intermediaries are also required to appoint nodal contact persons for 24x7 coordination with law enforcement agencies and resident grievance officers.A second official said as soon as the rules were notified, they became a legal framework. “According to part seven of the new guidelines, if the intermediary does not follow the rules, it is liable for punishment under Indian law, as section 79 of the [IT] Act will no longer apply.” Section 79 provided the intermediaries “safe habour” which is the exemption from punishment for third-party content posted on their websites.“Where an intermediary fails to observe these rules, the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 79 of the Act shall not be applicable to such intermediary and the intermediary shall be liable for punishment under any law for the time being in force including the provisions of the Act and the Indian Penal Code,” says the part seven.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aim-to-comply-discussing-issues-facebook-on-new-social-media-guidelines-101621931890713.html
25-05-2021||India||Beef ban, nod to liquor sale: Lakshadweep protests as Praful Patel approves new reforms||A public outcry was sparked in Lakshwadweep over a slew of reforms announced by the new administration led by Bharatiya Janata Party's Praful Patel. The BJP leader, appointed as the administrator of Lakshadweep in December 2020, is facing opposition over policies introduced by him from the people of the Union territory and politicians, both from within Lakshadweep and the neighbouring state of Kerala.Since taking over as Lakshadweep’s administrator, Patel has been making tweaks in the local administration. However, locals have termed the reforms as "anti-people" in Lakshwadeep, which largely has a Muslim population and is heavily dependent on fishing.Patel’s reformsPatel introduced a proposal to implement the anti-social Activities Regulation bill, 2021, or the goonda act in the island territory where the crime rate is already very low. Locals fear that bill will pave the way for the administration to arrest without a trial and feel that such harsh laws are not required. The government also took over the control of the local administrative powers of elected Zilla panchayat regarding-- education, health care, agriculture, animal husbandry and fisheries.The new proposal will also bring changes in panchayat regulations and will make any person with more than two children ineligible to contest panchayat elections. He also gave a nod to open liquor bars in the island, a non-alcoholic zone due to its Muslim population, to promote tourism; a beef ban and eliminating non-vegetarian food from the menu of Anganwadi children.Kerala lawmaker Hibi Eden, in his letter to the Centre, also claimed that the many government contract employees in the tourism sector were terminated without any reason. "Majority of the 70000 people in this Island depend on fishing and government services, but the new administration demolished huts of fisherman accusing Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) violation," he wrote in the letter to President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah.Patel has also diverted all cargo to Mangalore by ending a long-lasting trade relation between the island and Beypore port of Kerala, the neighbouring state.Call for recallThe issue has garnered support from various opposition parties in Lakshadweep and Kerala, as well as from people on social media. Lakshadweep lawmaker and NCP's Mohammed Faizal and his colleagues from neighbouring Kerala—TN Prathapan (Congress), Elamaram Kareem (CPI-M) and ET Mohammed Basheer (Muslim League) have also urged the Centre to recall Patel.On Monday, Congress general secretary KC Venugopal wrote a letter to the President alleging that the current administrator of Lakshadweep Praful Patel had taken "authoritarian measures" and demanded his recall. Venugopal said that there is apprehension among the people of Lakshadweep and resultant widespread protests "owing to the authoritarian measures taken by the current Administrator Praful Patel".However, the Centre has dubbed the criticism as a result of Patel's efforts to end "corrupt practices" involving local politicians prevalent and usher in development there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/beef-ban-nod-to-liquor-sale-lakshadweep-protests-as-praful-patel-approves-new-reforms-101621931021124.html
25-05-2021||India||Covid-positive Buddhadeb Bhattacharya admitted to hospital as condition deteriorates||The condition of former West Bengal chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee deteriorated on Tuesday, news agency PTI reported. The 77-year-old tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) last week.The politician was being treated at home but after his oxygen level slipped below 90 per cent this morning, he was rushed to the hospital on advise of doctors, said officials.Bhattacharya, one of the most senior leaders of the CPI(M), has been suffering from Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) for more than a decade. His movements are restricted.His wife Mira Bhattacharya, who also tested Covid-19 positive, was discharged from a private hospital in south Kolkata on Monday. She was admitted on May 18.Bhattacharya was admitted to hospital in October last year after he complained of breathlessness and low oxygen count in the blood. At that time, he was put on ventilator.A 13-member medical board was also formed for his treatment. The CPI(M) leader had tested negative for COvid-19 at that time.Bhattacharya was the chief minister of West Bengal from 2000 to 2011.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-bengal-cm-buddhadeb-bhattacharjee-s-health-condition-worsens-hospitalised-101621929791543.html
25-05-2021||India||Malayalam actor Unni Dev arrested in wife’s suicide case in Kerala||The Kerala Police on Tuesday arrested Malayalam actor Unni Dev in connection with his wife Priyanka’s death by alleged suicide at her house in Vembayam in Thiruvananthapuram district last week. A day before her death she had filed a police complaint against Unni Dev under the domestic violence act.Soon after her death, her family members alleged foul play and claimed she was tortured for dowry. They said Priyanka had bruises all over her body and she was forced to leave her husband’s flat in Kochi. They demanded that her husband and his relatives were booked for abetment to suicide. Unni and Priyanka, a physical education teacher, got married in 2019. Priyanka’s relatives said they used to fight frequently during the Covid-19 induced lockdown last year, when he allegedly started selling off her gold.Son of Malayalam actor late Raja P Dev, known in the south for his negative roles, Unni Dev started his career in television serials and later featured in many movies in minor roles. A senior police officer of Vattapara police station on the outskirts of Thiruvananthapuram said he will be charged with abetment to suicide, domestic violence and other relevant charges of the Indian Penal code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/malayalam-actor-unni-dev-arrested-in-wife-s-suicide-case-in-kerala-101621929430332.html
25-05-2021||India||UK starts preparations for trade negotiations with India||The UK on Tuesday started preparations for a trade deal with India, launching a 14-week consultation process to seek the views of the public and businesses ahead of negotiations on a free trade agreement set to begin in the autumn.UK trade secretary Liz Truss kicked off the preparations for the trade deal, under which Britain wants the removal of barriers to doing business and trading with India, including the removal of tariffs of up to 150% on whisky and 125% on British-made cars.The UK government is seeking input from consumers and businesses across all sectors that will help it craft a deal that includes closer cooperation in future-focused industries such as science, technology and services and creating high-value jobs across Britain.The UK also wants to make it easier for British services firms to operate in India, thereby boosting the country’s status as an international services hub. India’s growing middle-income population and connected youth will be the target consumers for goods and services from the UK.Truss said, “We’re firing the starting gun on a free trade deal with India – the world’s largest democracy, fifth biggest economy, a nation of 1.4 billion people and a huge market for British goods like whisky, cars and services.“We want an agreement that pushes new frontiers in industries of the future and helps us build a greener, more innovative and more services-led economy that will deliver higher-paying jobs across the country.”Also Read | India-UK pact tackles illegal migration in both countries, says Priti PatelDuring a virtual summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his UK counterpart Boris Johnson on May 4, the two countries launched an Enhanced Trade Partnership that envisages facilitating market access in specific sectors, and unveiled plans to finalise an interim trade deal by mid-2022 as a precursor to a free trade agreement.The Enhanced Trade Partnership, part of the UK’s efforts to ramp up trade ties with countries around the world following its exit from the European Union (EU), will see Britain open up its fisheries sector to more Indian players, facilitate more opportunities for nurses, recognise Indian seafarers’ certificates and enter into a joint dialogue on a social security agreement.In return, India lifted restrictions to enable British fruit producers to export their produce to the country and improved access for medical devices through the acceptance of “UK Certificates of Free Sale”. The two sides will also work towards reciprocal opening up of legal services.These actions are likely to generate some 25,000 new direct and indirect jobs in India, officials have said.UK international trade minister Ranil Jayawardena said a trade deal with India will break down barriers and make it easier for British businesses to sell their goods, as well as secure more investments, higher wages and lower prices in Britain.Before the negotiations start, the UK and India must complete a “pre-negotiation scoping phase” or a period of engagement with businesses and the public. The UK’s public consultation, which runs till August 31, includes a questionnaire that will gather information from participants about their experiences and priorities when doing business with India.India-UK trade was worth £23 billion in 2019, and both countries want to double the figure by 2030. Almost half a million jobs are supported across India and the UK through investments in each other’s economies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-starts-preparationa-for-trade-negotiations-with-india-101621927930631.html
25-05-2021||India||Tripura hotel turns into first private Covid care centre||A private hotel in Tripura has been converted into a paid Covid care centre, becoming the first of its kind facility in the state, grappling with rising number of infections.Tripura’s West district administration issued a notification declaring Ginger Hotel in Agartala a private Covid care centre. 24x7 healthcare services at the centre will be provided by a private nursing home named Divine Touch Medi-clinic. It will initially have 30-50 beds including 10 oxygenated ones.For a single room, patients will be charged ₹3,500; Rs. 4,000 for single occupancy in a double room and Rs. 5,000 for double occupancy in a double room. The rates include cost of food and water. Medicines, oxygen, investigation etc will cost extra.“... . under the Epidemic Disease Act , 1897 and Disaster Management Act , 2005, do hereby declare the Ginger Hotel as Paid Covid Care Centre”, the notification signed by West district magistrate Raval Hamendra Kumar reads.The Covid-care centre in-charge has been asked to submit daily reports to the chief medical officer of West district while the chief medical officer will soon nominate a medical officer to monitor the centre.Tripura currently has 7535 active Covid cases, with the total number of cases crossing 46,099 including 462 deaths related to the disease so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-hotel-turns-into-first-private-covid-care-centre-101621927870127.html
25-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Obscure US firm offers $500 billion investment in India and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Humble appeal to beloved PM Modi: Obscure firm offers to invest $500 bnA little-known company based in the US has made a “Humble Appeal to our Beloved and Hon'ble Prime Minister”, saying it wants to invest $500 billion in equity into India's National Infrastructure Pipeline (NIP). Read moreIllegal phone tapping: Mumbai Police record Rashmi Shukla’s statement in HyderabadThe Mumbai cyber police have recorded the statement of Indian Police Service (IPS) officer Rashmi Shukla in connection with the alleged illegal phone tapping and confidential report leak. Read moreOdisha starts massive evacuation drive ahead of cyclone Yaas landfallOdisha has started a massive evacuation exercise in the coastal districts ahead of Cyclone Yaas’ arrival by Wednesday noon. Read more‘Even Kohli knew that if I bat on, we will win’; Suryakuamar ‘happy’ to be sledged by Virat in IPL 2020Indian batsman Suryakumar Yadav recently recalled an incident from Indian Premier League (IPL) 2020 in which he was sledged by Royal Challengers Bangalore (RCB) skipper Virat Kohli. Read more2021 Triumph Bonneville Bobber launched in India. Price & specifications hereTriumph Motorcycles India on Tuesday launched the all-new 2021 Bonneville Bobber at ₹11.75 lakh (ex-showroom). The new Bobber brings forward a range of significant updates inside out. Read more‘Let your mind wander’: Nasa’s latest share showcases unexplored galaxies light years away from Earth‘Are we really alone in this vast universe?’- This question may have popped up in your mind while looking up at the star-studded night sky. We may not be experts in this matter but trust Nasa to expand your horizon of thinking with their latest share featuring a galaxy cluster far away from our Earth. Read moreCovid: Uttar Pradesh resident infected with black, white & yellow fungusAfter cases of black and white fungus being reported from across the country, now a case of yellow fungus has been detected in man from Uttar Pradesh’s Ghaziabad. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-obscure-us-firm-offers-usd-500-billion-investment-in-india-and-all-the-latest-news-101621926676159.html
25-05-2021||India||Odisha starts massive evacuation drive ahead of cyclone Yaas landfall||Odisha has evacuated nearly 60,000 villagers from the coastal districts by Tuesday afternoon ahead of Cyclone Yaas’ arrival on Wednesday. Authorities have been told to ensure adherence to Covid appropriate behaviour during the massive evacuation exercise keeping in mind the high prevalence of Covid-19 in the coastal areasState’s special relief commissioner Pradip Jena said district collectors have been asked to finish evacuation from the four coastal districts of Balasore, Bhadrak, Kendrapara and Jagatsinghpur, by Tuesday afternoon. These districts are likely to face the maximum brunt of the cyclone as per the weather forecast. He added that arrangements have been made to accommodate up to 750,000 evacuaees in 7,000 shelters prepared for the purposed.“Zero casualty is the motto. We are leaving no stone unturned for saving lives,” Jena said. Close to 6,500 pregnant women due to deliver before June 1 are also being moved to hospitals. Jena said 10 senior IAS and IPS officers have been sent to the 4 coastal districts and Mayurbhanj to supervise relief, rehabilitation and restoration measures in the wake of the cyclone.As per the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), cyclone Yaas developed into a severe cyclonic storm over east-central Bay of Bengal and is moving north-northwestwards about 360 km south-southeast of Paradip and 460 km south-southeast of Balasore.“It is expected to intensify into a very severe cyclonic storm on May 26 and cross the coast somewhere near Chandbali in Bhadrak district with wind speed of 155-165 km per hour accompanied by gusts of 185 km per hour. The impact of Cyclone Yaas will be high 6 hours before and after the landfall. Big trees & electric poles may get uprooted. Chandbali is likely to witness maximum damage due to the cyclone,” said IMD director general Mrutyunjay Mohapatra.Mohapatra said sea tide would be as high as 4-5 metres above the mean sea level during the period and heavy to very heavy rainfall up to 300 mm was expected on May 26. He added that the thatched houses, asbestos roofs and even old pucca buildings in the four coastal districts were likely to get impacted the most, while big trees including palm and coconut may get uprooted.The arrival of the cyclone in Odisha coincides with the surge in Covid-19 cases in several areas. Coastal districts such as Balasore and Bhadrak that would be in the eye of the cyclone are reporting a TPR over 30%.Chief minister Naveen Patnaik has asked people and officials to be mindful of the twin challenges of Covid-19 pandemic and the cyclone.“...Now the government is ready to tackle both Covid and Cyclone Yaas situations. Your cooperation will strengthen our preparedness for the impending cyclone amid the prevailing pandemic situation,” he said.In Balasore, which falls in the projected path of cyclone Yaas, people have been advised to keep drinking water for at least four days and those living under thatched houses have been advised to move to nearby cyclone relief centres.On ground, functionaries of Panchayati Raj institutions said they are finding it difficult to ensure Covid appropriate behaviour at shelters. “As there is no cyclone shelter nearby, we have identified 4 schools to house people with kutcha houses. But maintaining social distance may not be possible in those centres considering the number of people,” said Manjurani Behera of Maheshpur gram panchayat in Bhograi block of coastal Balasore.Behera said as the sea will be in spate on May 26 due to the full moon and tidal surge may cause big damage.Of the 1.09 lakh active Covid cases in the state, the four coastal districts of Balasore, Bhadrak, Kendrapara and Jagatsinghpur have more than 10,000 Covid patients. Though more than 85% of them are in home isolation, shifting them to cyclone shelters is fraught with risk. The weekly positivity rate (May 15 to 21) in Bhadrak (39.4%) and Balasore (35.1%), the two districts in the path of the cyclone, is the highest in the state while districts like Khurda, Cuttack and Jajpur too have positivity rate above 20%.“We are trying to keep Covid positive people separate in shelters. Everyone in such centres would be given free masks. Besides, medicines and water are being kept in readiness,” said SRC Pradip Jena, adding that extra oxygen cylinders, medicines, drinking water and food for at least three days are being planned at hospitals.Meanwhile 52 NDRF teams have been deployed for post cyclone rescue and relief operations. Similarly, 50 to 60 ODRAF teams and 175 to 200 fire tenders have been kept ready for coordinated rescue and relief operations. At least 35 tree cutting teams have been kept ready. Similarly, 165 teams from the public works department and 165 teams from the rural development department have been formed for cyclone management.Odisha last faced a cyclone in May 2019 when Cyclone Fani ripped through coastal Puri, Khurda and Cuttack districts with wind speed of 200 kilometres per hour, killing 64 people and affecting about 16.5 million people in over 18,000 villages. It damaged an estimated 360,000 houses.In 2018, Cyclone Titli killed 77 people, destroyed 260,000 hectare of agricultural land, over 60,000 houses, and killed more than 35,000 domestic animals.In 2013, Cyclone Phailin wreaked havoc in the state affecting over 1.1 million people and causing damages worth ₹4,240 crore.Between 1891 and 2021, over 100 tropical cyclones have lashed Odisha — the highest among other coastal states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-starts-massive-evacuation-drive-ahead-of-cyclone-yaas-landfall-101621926251284.html
25-05-2021||India||'Sushil Kumar seemed nervous, changed statements during interrogation': Police||A team of Delhi Police's Crime Branch took Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar, the prime accused in the alleged murder case of wrestler Sagar Dhankar, and his associate Ajay Bakkarwala to three locations in Delhi--Model Town, Shalimar Bagh, and Chhatrasal Stadium-- connected with the incident.As per Delhi Police sources, when the police was questioning the wrestler at the said places, Sushil was seemingly nervous and was changing his statement repeatedly."The Crime Branch team is investigating the matter from every angle including who helped Sushil Kumar while he was absconding. Police took Kumar and Ajay to Chhatrasal Stadium where the fight took place. The second location was the flat in Model Town from where Sushil and his companions brought Sagar Dhankhar and Sonu to Chhatrasal Stadium. The third location was the flat in Shalimar Bagh where Sushil used to live," sources told ANI.They said the police questioned Sushil at these locations and tried to know who else was present with him during the course of the events on May 4 and May 5. They said that police also tried to verify the video in which wrestler Sagar Dhankar could be seen being beaten by two-time Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar.Also Read | Sushil Kumar cried in lock-up, was up all night: Police"Sushil confessed to being in the Chhatrasal Stadium and said he tried to be a mediator between the two groups that were fighting. However, he did not confess to bringing Sagar Dhankhar and Sonu from the Model Town flat. When the police was questioning Sushil at these places, he was getting nervous and was changing his statement repeatedly," the sources added.Sources also informed that forensic experts are reaching Model Town police station to examine the vehicles used by Kumar and they will also visit Chhatrasal Stadium to collect the evidence.Delhi Police on Monday said the Delhi Police Crime Branch will investigate the case related to the Chhatrasal Stadium brawl that led to the alleged murder of a 23-year-old wrestler Sagar.The Special Cell of Delhi Police on Sunday arrested Sushil Kumar, who was absconding accused in the murder case of wrestler Sagar Dhankar, along with his associate Ajay, who was allegedly helping the wrestler while on the run.A Delhi Court on the same day granted six days of police custody of Sushil Kumar. A non-bailable warrant was issued against 38-year-old Sushil and others in the case relating to the alleged killing of the 23-year-old wrestler.According to the police, Sushil while absconding crossed the borders of as many as seven states and union territories during the last 18 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushil-kumar-seemed-nervous-changed-statements-during-interrogation-police-101621925411756.html
25-05-2021||India||Cyclone Yaas: Indian Navy ramps up preparations, deploys rescue, relief teams||With Cyclone Yaas predicted to make landfall on the eastern coast on May 26 and likely to hit parts of Odisha and West Bengal, the Indian Navy on Tuesday said it has ramped up rescue and relief operations to minimise damages."INS Netaji Subhas is spearheading the Indian Naval's relief effort at West Bengal and is in close coordination with the State Government of West Bengal for preparations for Cyclone Yaas, which is scheduled to make landfall between Odisha and West Bengal coast on May 26", informed an official release by the Indian Navy.As part of the preparation, two Navy Diving Teams and five flood relief teams, comprising of specialized Navy personnel with associated equipment and inflatable boats, have been deployed.One diving and two flood relief teams each, have been positioned at Digha and Frazerganj, both in West Bengal on May 23 and May 24 respectively.One flood relief team has been kept on standby at Diamond Harbour, for redeployment as necessary, at short notice. These teams are equipped to undertake casualty evacuation of stranded/ marooned personal, road clearing/ tree cutting operations, and distribution of relief material, as would be required by the local district administration.In addition, the Indian Navy is also positioning Humanitarian Assistance and Disaster Relief (HADR) material for about 500 people at its depot Centre at Kolkata, for subsequent distribution if required, in the aftermath of the Cyclone. Four Indian Navy Ships, loaded with HADR material, medical teams and additional diving teams, would also closely follow the Cyclone and be available for rendering further assistance.Naval Helicopters from onboard the INS ships, Medium-Range Maritime Patrol (MRMP) aircraft at Visakhapatnam as well as Long Range Maritime Patrol (LRMP) aircraft at Arrakkonam (Tamil Nadu) are also standby for deployment at short notice in the aftermath of the Cyclone for casualty evacuation, aerial survey and airdrop of relief material, based on requests from the State Government, as required.Meanwhile, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) today predicted that the cyclonic storm Yaas is going to intensity into a 'very severe cyclonic storm' in the next 12 hours."The severe cyclonic storm Yaas over east-central Bay of Bengal moved north-northwestwards with a speed of about 9 kmph during past six hours and lay centred at 9 UTC of May 24 over east-central Bay of Bengal," IMD said in its bulletin."It is very likely to move north-northwestwards, intensify further into a very severe cyclonic storm during next 12 hours. It would continue to move north-northwestwards, intensify further and reach northwest Bay of Bengal near North Odisha and West Bengal coasts by May 26 early morning," the weather agency said.Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik has urged the people living in the coastal regions of Odisha to cooperate with the local administration and shift to cyclone shelters. Addressing the people of the state yesterday, the CM also asked them to adhere to Covid-19 protocols and wear two masks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-yaas-indian-navy-ramps-up-preparations-deploys-rescue-relief-teams-101621924243767.html
25-05-2021||India||Odisha braces for Cyclone Yaas, issues red alert for 4 districts||Several districts in Odisha were on Tuesday placed on high alert as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) issued warnings for extremely heavy rains ahead of Cyclone Yaas’ landfall. A red alert was issued for Kendrapara, Bhadrak, Jagatsinghpur and Balasore districts for Tuesday and Wednesday. “We have issued the highest danger warning for Dhamra and Paradip ports,” IMD Bhubaneswar said.For Mayurbhanj, Jajpur, Cuttack, Khorda and Puri, IMD issued an orange alert for Tuesday as the weather department predicted heavy to very heavy rainfall. Wind speeds of 150-160kmph gusting 180kmph are expected as Cyclone Yaas, which is brewing in the Bay of Bengal, may make landfall by the afternoon on Wednesday, IMD also said.Thousands of locals were evacuated as Cyclone Yaas is set to make landfall days after Cyclone Tauktae, which was also of similar intensity, killed more than 100 people in the country’s western coastal states. "Cyclone Yaas is very likely to cross north Odisha-West Bengal coasts between Paradip and Sagar Island around Balasore, during noon of Wednesday, the 26th May as a Very Severe Cyclonic Storm," IMD said in its bulletin.Click here to track live updates of cyclone YaasMeanwhile, Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik directed the state's home minister to reach Balasore and remain there to monitor the situation ahead of the 'very severe cyclonic storm.' He also urged people living in the coastal regions of Odisha to cooperate with the local administration and shift to cyclone shelters. As the cyclone crisis coincided with the Covid-19 pandemic situation, complicating the rescue work, the Odisha chief minister also asked the state residents to adhere to Covid-19 protocols and wear two masks.In terms of preparedness, more than 800 Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force (ODRAF) personnel are in a high state of readiness for Cyclone Yaas. On Monday, the state government prepared a list of high-risk districts and assigned them to senior officers to supervise relief, rehabilitation and restoration work. The Indian Air Force and Indian Navy have also kept helicopters and vessels ready for the relief and rescue work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-braces-for-cyclone-yaas-issues-red-alert-for-4-districts-101621916048927.html
25-05-2021||India||Daily Covid-19 cases in India fall below 2-lakh mark after 40 days||India crossed a significant milestone on Tuesday, when it recorded 1,96,427 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in a 24-hour span. The number of daily cases have fallen below two lakh-mark after 40 days, the Union health ministry said.India had registered 1,84,372 new coronavirus infections on April 14.The country also reported the lowest death toll in 21 days with 3,511 fresh fatalities, the health ministry data updated at 8am showed. The fresh fatalities include 592 from Maharashtra, 529 from Karnataka, 404 from Tamil Nadu, 207 from Delhi, 196 from Kerala, 187 from Punjab, 153 each from Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, 122 from Uttarakhand and 103 from Rajasthan.The active cases further reduced to 25,86,782, which is now 9.60 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 89.26 per cent.India’s daily recoveries continue to outnumber the daily new cases of the infection for the 12th consecutive day. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,40,54,861, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.14 per cent, the data stated.India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16 last year. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19 last year. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4, 2021.According to Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 33,25,94,176 samples have been tested up to May 24 with 20,58,112 samples being tested on Monday.Meanwhile, the cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered to beneficiaries has reached 19,85,38,999, the health ministry said. It also said that 12.82 lakh vaccination doses were administered for 18-44 age group in last 24 hours.This is the highest since May 1 when the liberalised pricing and accelerated national Covid-19 vaccination strategy was implemented, the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/daily-covid-19-cases-in-india-fall-below-2-lakh-mark-after-40-days-101621922974259.html
25-05-2021||India||Goa’s Mandovi river was cleaner during lockdown months, study confirms||The water quality of Goa’s Mandovi river showed significant improvement during the Covid-19 lockdown in 2020 thanks to a steep reduction in human activity, a National Institute of Oceanography study has found. The midstream sections of the river that usually show a high proportion of coloured dissolved organic matter (CDOM) were found to be clearer by almost two folds, it added.“The concentration of dissolved nutrients in 2020 was also low compared to the previous reports. There was a complete standstill of anthropogenic activities such as operating pleasure cruises, water transport systems like barges, shipbuilding activities, and commercial establishments following the government-imposed lockdown, which might have reduced the CDOM and nutrients in the estuary,” the research said.Also Read | EU leaders set for spat over distribution of carbon-cut burdenThe lockdown provided the first-ever opportunity to study the water column characteristics of Mandovi Estuary when most of the anthropogenic activities were either stopped or reduced drastically. The water quality of the Mandovi is known to be poor because of bacterial presence and dissolved oxygen.The presence of CDMO is one of the parameters to examine water quality.The researchers carried out sampling in the Mandovi Estuary in early May 2020 during the phased lockdown opening to compare the CDOM absorption during the spring inter-monsoon (March–May) of 2014–2018 with that of 2020 when the anthropogenic activities were minimal.The 81-kilometre long Mandovi river originates in Karnataka and along with its tributaries irrigates over half of Goa’s cultivable area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goas-mandovi-river-was-cleaner-during-lockdown-months-study-confirms-101621922890343.html
25-05-2021||India||After Delhi Police’s visit to Twitter office, Rahul Gandhi tweets about truth||Day after the Delhi Police sent a notice to Twitter India in connection with the probe into a complaint about the alleged 'COVID toolkit', Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday tweeted about truth. The Delhi Police said on Monday they have sought a clarification from Twitter in connection with a tweet by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Sambit Patra about an alleged toolkit released by the Congress party that the microblogging site tagged as “manipulated media.” According to Twitter, it "may label tweets that include media (videos, audio, and images) that have been deceptively altered or fabricated"."Truth remains unafraid," Gandhi tweeted using the hashtag 'Toolkit’.Truth remains unafraid. सत्य डरता नहीं।#ToolkitDelhi Police officers also visited Twitter’s offices in south Delhi and Gurugram on Monday evening to secure the participation of Twitter’s managing director Manish Maheshwari as part of the probe.Also watch: Cops search Twitter's offices over Congress toolkit row, say reportsThe Congress on Monday alleged that the "cowardly raid" on the microblogging site's offices by the Delhi Police "exposes lame duck attempts" to hide a "fraudulent toolkit" by BJP leaders. “This is an effort to cover up the whole thing. The BJP hatched a conspiracy to cook up a forged document and they have been caught. Now they are trying to browbeat Twitter. They have no legal authority to do that,” Rajeev Gowda, who heads the Congress’s research department, said.Also read | BJP leader names ‘author’ of Congress ‘toolkit’The Delhi Police’s special cell has been conducting an inquiry into a complaint filed with the police chief and the Tughlak Road police station on May 18 by two Congress party leaders, seeking a first information report (FIR) against some BJP leaders for allegedly “forging documents, and circulating fabricated material on Twitter under the hashtag CongressToolkitExposed.” No FIR was registered till Monday evening in the matter, the police said. “Delhi Police is enquiring into a complaint in which clarification is sought from the Twitter regarding the classification of a tweet by Sambit Patra as manipulated. It appears that Twitter has some information which is not known to us on the basis of which they have classified it as such....” the Delhi Police said in a statement on Monday.Also read | Centre asks Twitter to drop manipulated media tag from ‘toolkit’ tweetsBJP’s Patra, in his tweet, released details of the Toolkit, a social media campaign playbook, that the Congress allegedly prepared to defame Prime Minister Modi and build a biased narrative over India’s management of Covid-19, and the Central Vista project.The opposition party, however, denied the allegation and claimed the BJP is propagating a fake 'toolkit' to defame it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-delhi-police-s-visit-to-twitter-office-rahul-gandhi-tweets-about-truth-101621921062132.html
25-05-2021||India||Delhi govt imports 6,000 oxygen cylinders from China as preparation for 3rd wave begins||The Delhi government has imported 6,000 oxygen cylinders from China, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal informed as he reviewed preparation for the third Covid-19 wave in the country. The "second wave in control, started prep for 3rd wave. Imported 6000 oxy cylinders," he wrote on Twitter on Monday."Can set up 3000 oxy beds with these," he added while thanking the central government for its assistance. "Grateful to HCL, Give India and Central govt (esp Indian embassy in Beijing) for helping us get these cylinders to Delhi. Many more preparations underway," Kejriwal also said.Second wave in control, started prep for 3rd wave. Imported 6000 oxy cylinders. Can set up 3000 oxy beds with these. Grateful to HCL, Give India and Central govt (esp Indian embassy in Beijing) for helping us get these cylinders to Delhi.Many more preps underway pic.twitter.com/RZGHObqKneAlong with the nation, Delhi was also reeling under the catastrophic second wave of the Covid-19. During this, the city's healthcare infrastructure was stretched to the limit as cases rose to unprecedented levels. It also led to the severe shortage of medical oxygen and hospital beds in the national capital.On Monday, Delhi recorded 1,550 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 207 fatalities, in a lowest single-day jump since March 27, when it logged 1,558 cases.It was also the second consecutive day when the number of daily infections was below the 2,000-mark. On Sunday, 1,649 people were found to be infected with Covid-19 in 24 hours.With cases falling steadily, the positivity rate in the city has improved to 2.52 per cent. At the time of the peak, the positivity rate had soared to above 30 per cent.It also recorded 207 fatalities in the last 24-hours. Delhi's death toll now stands at 23,409.On May 19, Delhi recorded 3,846 cases and 235 deaths and the numbers further dropped to 3,231 cases and 233 deaths on May 20. On May 21, the daily tally stood at, while 252 lost their lives.On May 22, it continued to fall further to 2,260 cases.The positivity rate was 5.5 per cent on Thursday and 4.76 per cent on Friday, slipping gradually to less than 4 per cent on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-govt-imports-6-000-oxygen-cylinders-from-china-as-preparation-for-3rd-wave-begins-101621921451404.html
25-05-2021||India||Patanjali Dairies head dies of Covid, company says had no role in his allopathic treatment||Sunil Bansal, who headed the dairy business of Yoga guru Ramdev's Patanjali Ayurved, died of COVID-19, the company said on Monday, adding it had no "role in his allopathic treatment."Bansal, 57, who was Vice President in the Dairy Division of Patanjali Ayurved Ltd, died on May 19.A specialist in dairy science, Bansal joined Patanjali's dairy business in January 2018 when the company announced its plans to sell packaged cow milk and other milk-based products including curd, buttermilk and cheese.Also Read | 'Shows maturity': Harsh Vardhan lauds Ramdev for withdrawing remarks on allopathy "He died of COVID-19 on May 19 in Rajasthan Hospital, Jaipur where his wife is a very senior health official of Government of Rajasthan," the Haridwar-based firm said in a statement.His death comes at a time when Ramdev is courting controversy over his comments about allopathic medicines and Covid-19. The statement too reflected that."Patanjali didn't have any role in his allopathic treatment which was largely coordinated by his wife," it said. "However we were concerned and used to ask for his well-being from his wife."On Sunday, Ramdev was forced to withdraw a statement made in a viral video clip in which he is heard saying that "lakhs have died from taking allopathic medicines for Covid-19."He is also heard questioning some of the medicines being used to treat the disease.The statement was met with vociferous protests from the doctors' association, following which Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan asked him to withdraw the "extremely unfortunate" statement."It's very unfortunate to have lost a young energetic colleague who was taskmaster," Patanjali said in the statement on Bansal's death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/patanjali-dairies-head-dies-of-covid-company-says-had-no-role-in-his-allopathic-treatment-101621921113644.html
25-05-2021||India||Medical students stuck in India seek help to take exams in Bangladesh||Hundreds of Indian students enrolled in Bangladeshi medical colleges have been unable to return to Bangladesh for their exams as travel remains suspended between the two countries amid a surge in Covid-19 cases in India.“...authorities in Bangladesh suggested we go back to India after Bangladesh imposed a lockdown in March this year. Now as the situation has improved there, they are planning to conduct exams but are not allowing us back,” said Ammar Iqbal, a final year MBBS student at Bangladesh’s Monno Medical College.Many Indians have been enrolling in Bangladeshi medical colleges because of lower fees.Bangladesh has cited the new contagious Covid-19 variant as a reason for preventing Indian students from returning.Ifia Jan, another student, said Bangladesh was allowing back its citizens stuck in India. “Is there no fear of them carrying the new variant to Bangladesh?” Jan questioned. “We have already lost a year due to the previous lockdown. We cannot afford to delay our degree by a year again.”Also Read | Bangladesh appeals to world community for Covid-19 vaccine dosesShariar Nabi, the acting dean of Dhaka University, said thousands of students from across the world were enrolled in colleges affiliated to the varsity, and they cannot postpone the exams for just a few hundred Indian students. He added there was no official advisory to these students to leave the country and therefore they were not bound to wait for their return. “We need our thousands of final-year medical students to graduate as early as we can. There is a crisis of doctors here as well,” Nabi said. He added Bangladesh’s health ministry wanted the next batch of doctors as soon as possible.Muhammad Akhtar-Uz-Zaman, principal of the Monno Medical College, said the students have to appear in person for exams as the college has no provision for online exams. He added neither the Medical Council of Bangladesh nor India permits online medical exams. “Even if there was a provision, the Medical Council of India (MCI) would not entertain the degrees of these students as it does not allow online exams. The colleges here are recognised by MCI since many Indian students study here. We have to abide by MCI’s guidelines.”He added medical science as a subject demands subject knowledge that cannot be assessed online. “The final year students have to go through behavioural and diagnostic assessment which can only happen in hospitals where they are asked to examine patients. Therefore, online exams for such students are impossible.”Students said they were trying to reach out to the external affairs ministry. But a spokesperson for the ministry said that they have not received any official written representation.An official at Dhaka’s Indian High Commission, who did not wish to be named, said they have been in touch with the Bangladeshi authorities but do not have the approval for the return of the students yet. He added Bangladesh had been easing the lockdown and their request to bring back these students might receive a nod in a day or two.“However, the final say on this lies with the Bangladeshi government. If the external [affairs] ministry of India could directly reach out to Bangladeshi government, maybe they would act faster on it.”Viqar ul Haq, a third student, said Bangladesh could make a negative RT-PCR test mandatory for all the incoming students. “We are even ready to go for a two-week quarantine upon arrival, but the government should at least allow us in. The insensitivity of both governments will put our future at stake.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/medical-students-stuck-in-india-seek-help-to-take-exams-in-bangladesh-101621921089950.html
25-05-2021||India||India has administered over 198mn Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered over 198 million coronavirus vaccine doses by Monday, May 24, even as the Centre allowed states to open on-site registration, appointment, and administration of doses for adults below the age of 45. It is being enabled in government vaccination centres, to begin with.By Monday 8pm, 198,443,550 vaccine doses had been given in India of which 1,252,320 beneficiaries of the age group 18-45 years received their first dose during the day. Cumulatively, 11,881,337 people in this age group got their vaccine doses across 37 States/UTs since the start of Phase-3 of the vaccination drive. Bihar, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh have administered vaccine to over a million each beneficiaries of the age group.Also Read | India’s Covid-19 tally nears 27 million with 196,427 fresh cases, 3,511 deathsBihar has given 1,386,811 vaccine doses to beneficiaries in 18-45 age group while Delhi has vaccinated 933,152 people in that age group. Meanwhile, Delhi has reported that vaccine firms have refused to deal with state governments. US pharmaceutical giants Moderna, and Pfizer have told the Delhi government that they will deal only with the Centre, said chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. Later, Pfizer issued a statement confirming it plans to supply vaccine only to the Union government.On Monday, India reported 194,514 fresh Covid cases of which Maharashtra logged 22,122 cases while Delhi recorded 1,550. Karnataka and Tamil Nadu recorded 25,311, and 34,867 fresh cases respectively. Meanwhile, Roche India announced the launch of its antibody cocktail to treat Covid patients, the cost of per patient dose working out to be ₹59,750. The first batch of Casirivimab and Imdevimab is available in India while a second batch will be made available by mid-June.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-over-198mn-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101621919649882.html
25-05-2021||India||Mucormycosis treatment challenges, oxygen therapy link: Top doctor lists out||Gujarat and Maharashtra are among the 18 states which have reported more than 5000 cases of mucormycosis or black fungus as the country battles the massive second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). According to Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan, Gujarat reported 2165 cases, Maharashtra 1188, Uttar Pradesh 663, Madhya Pradesh 590, Haryana 339 and Andhra Pradesh 248 cases. "Out of these 5424 cases of mucormycosis, we have seen that 4556 cases have a history of Covid-19 infection, while 875 cases are amongst non-Covid patients. Diabetes was present in 55 percent of the patients,” the health minister said at the 27th group of ministers (GoM) meeting on Covid-19 on Monday."We have been warning, issuing advisories and, through our experts, it has been communicated that indiscriminate use of steroids must be avoided and diabetes must be treated thoroughly as best as possible," he said. “Nine lakh vials of Amphotericin-B are being imported by the central government for the treatment of black fungus. Of this, 50,000 vials have been received and around 300,000 vials will be available in the next seven days," he said.Also read | Top Delhi doctor gives tips to combat black fungus amid alarming rise in casesNineteen states have already declared mucormycosis a notifiable disease under the epidemics act and will now have to be reported to government authorities.What is mucormycosis?Mucormycosis is a deadly and aggressive fungal infection that causes blackening or discolouration over the nose, one-sided facial swelling, headache, nasal or sinus congestion, fever, blurred or double vision, chest pain, breathing difficulties and coughing blood. The disease has a close link to diabetes and conditions which compromise the immune system of the human body. According to experts, an overuse during the Covid-19 pandemic of certain drugs which suppress the immune system could be causing the surge.Mucormycosis has a mortality rate of 54%, which can vary depending on the condition of the patients and the body part affected, data from the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention shows.Also watch: ‘No indication that Covid 3rd wave will impact children more’: AIIMS director﻿Not a communicable diseaseDr Randeep Guleria, the director of Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS), said on Monday the number of cases of mucormycosis is being reported is on the rise but it is not a communicable disease and does not spread from one person to another, like Covid-19 does.Dr Guleria also cautioned against using the term black fungus while talking of mucormycosis, as it leads to a lot of avoidable confusion. “Black fungus is another family; this term got associated with mucormycosis due to the presence of black dots among the culture of white fungal colonies. In general, there are various types of fungal infections such as candida, aspergillosis, cryptococcus, histoplasmosis and coccidioidomycosis. Mucormycosis, candida and aspergillosis are the ones observed more in those with low immunity,” he said during a press briefing.Also read | Now, Ghaziabad hospital reports 7 cases of ‘white fungus’ infection“Candida fungal infection can manifest with symptoms such as white patches in the mouth, oral cavities and tongue; it can infect private parts and can also be found in the blood (in which case it can become serious). Aspergillosis, which is relatively not common, affects and invades lungs by creating cavities in the lungs. What is observed in Covid-19 is mostly mucormycosis; aspergillosis is observed occasionally, and Candida in some people.”High-risk category“Ninety to ninety-five per cent of patients getting infected with mucormycosis are found to have been either diabetic and/or taking steroids. This infection is seen very rarely in those who are neither diabetic nor taking steroids,” Guleria said.Also read | Can people without Covid get black fungus? Experts explainHe also said that patients who are under high-risk category, those with uncontrolled diabetes and using steroids and are Covid-19 positive, with following symptoms should immediately report them to their doctors. “Some warning signs for mucormycosis such as headache, rusting or bleeding from nose, swelling below the eye, lowering of facial sensation, if observed in high-risk patients or those taking steroids, need to be informed to doctors so that early diagnosis and treatment can be given,” he said.No definite link with oxygen therapy“Many patients taking treatment at home, who were not on oxygen therapy, have also been found to get infected with Mucormycosis. So there is no definite link between oxygen therapy and catching the infection,” Dr Guleria added.Treatment challengesAnti-fungal treatment goes on for many weeks so it is proving to be challenging for hospitals as Covid-19 patients and other patients who get mucormycosis need to be housed in separate hospital wards. Surgery also needs to be done judiciously since aggressive surgery for mucormycosis can have adverse outcomes for Covid-19 patients.Also read | ‘Stop irrational steroid use in Covid treatment’: Govt on mucormycosisMaintaining proper hygiene is very important for diabetic patients since chances of opportunistic infection is very high in them, experts have said. They have also said that those using oxygen concentrators should ensure cleaning of humidifiers regularly.Types of mucormycosisMucormycosis can be categorised depending on the organ of the human body it attacks. Signs and symptoms of the infection also vary depending on the affected body part.Rhino orbital cerebral mucormycosis: It infects the nose, orbit of eye / eye socket, oral cavity and can even spread to the brain. Symptoms include headache, nasal congestion, nasal discharge (green colour), pain in sinus, bleeding nose, swelling on face, lack of sensation on face and skin discolouration.Pulmonary mucormycosis: This fungal infection affects the lungs and causes fever, chest pain, cough and coughing of blood.The fungus can also infect the gastrointestinal tract.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mucormycosis-treatment-challenges-oxygen-therapy-link-top-doctor-lists-out-101621917754853.html
25-05-2021||India||1 dead, 7 missing as two boats capsize in Odisha’s Malkangiri||A child drowned while seven other migrant workers went missing after two boats capsized in Sileru river at Andhra-Odisha border in Chitrakonda area of Malkangiri district on late Monday evening.Chitrakonda tehsildar T Padmanabha Dora said the incident happened when 30 migrant labourers in two boats were returning from Telangana to their homes in Kandhaguda and Gunthaguda villages in Odisha’s Malkangiri district at night, hoping to avoid testing by rapid antigen tests, made compulsory for people entering the state for the purpose of detecting and containing Covid-19 infections that have spiralled during the ongoing second wave of the pandemic. “While 19 people came back safely in a boat after finishing their work in Telangana, 11 others [were] travelling in two other boats when the mishap happened. When one of the boats capsized after hitting a pole underneath the water, panic-stricken occupants jumped to the other fishing boat to save their lives. But it too gave in and sank in the river,” said the tehsildar.A team of Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force later recovered the body of a child from the river. While three migrant workers swam to safety, seven were missing. Five among the missing were women and the remaining two were children.The incident comes just days after a boat capsized in the Sileru river near the banks of Orapadar village in Andrapali gram panchayat of Malkangiri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-dead-7-missing-as-two-boats-capsize-in-odisha-s-malkangiri-101621918209703.html
25-05-2021||India||India's Covid-19 tally nears 27 million with 196,427 fresh cases, 3,511 deaths||India recorded 196,427 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, taking the total tally of cases to 26,948,874, according to Union health ministry update on Tuesday morning. It also showed that 3,511 deaths were also recorded in the same period, taking the nationwide toll to 3,07,231.The number of active cases in the country further went down by 133,934, and reaching 25,867,782 the ministry's update at 8am showed.The number of deaths have hovered near the 4,000-mark for past several days, leading to concerns among experts and government officials.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said a total of 33,25,94,176 samples were tested up to May 24 including 20,58,112 samples tested yesterday.However, the number of daily cases in high caseload states like Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh Delhi are on a decline, which shows that the severity of the second wave of Covid-19 is on a decline in India.Several states have extended ongoing curbs in a bid to keep the Covid-19 infection from spreading. Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Karnataka, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh, Nagaland, Mizoram, Meghalaya, Arunachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir and Goa have re-imposed curfew-like restrictions after active coronavirus cases showed a decline.Metropolitan cities like Mumbai and Delhi have seen signs of improvement in recent days, but there is a growing concern about smaller towns and rural areas where the coronavirus has made inroads.Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Monday said that the daily recoveries from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) exceeded the new cases in the country for the eleventh straight day.Ten states including Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal accounted for 81.08% of the coronavirus infections seen on Monday, the Union health ministry said, adding that Tamil Nadu saw the maximum (35,483 new cases) followed by Maharashtra at 26,672.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-daily-covid-19-cases-deaths-fall-to-196-427-and-3-511-respectively-total-infection-tally-close-to-27-million-101621908519289.html
25-05-2021||India||Some of CBI appointments that have recently sparked a row||A Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led committee on Monday finalised the names of four officers to head the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) even as Congress member of the panel, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, objected to the selection process. Chowdhury accused the government of adopting a “casual and superficial” approach and questioned the shortlisting process, HT reported on Tuesday.The CBI chief’s position has been vacant since February 3 when Rishi Kumar Shukla completed his tenure. Praveen Sinha has been working as the agency’s interim chief since then.Here is a look at some of the CBI appointments that have recently sparked a row.• Ranjit Sinha’s appointment as CBI chief in 2012 triggered a controversy as the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) demanded that it be put on hold citing a Rajya Sabha panel’s recommendation that a collegium should make the selection. Aam Aadmi Party chief Arvind Kejriwal also questioned the “secretive manner” in which the government chose Sinha and called him a “tainted person”. The government maintained the selection was done in a “fair manner” following the “due process” and that the Prime Minister had the authority to decide on the matter. Sinha’s two-year term was marred by the controversy over entries in the visitors’ diary at his official residence that showed he had allegedly met suspects in the alleged 2G spectrum allocation and coal scams.Also Read | Antigua police launch probe to find missing Mehul Choksi; no leads so far• Common Cause, an NGO, opposed Rakesh Asthana’s appointment as CBI’s Special Director in 2016. It moved the Supreme Court challenging the appointment, claiming it was illegal, mala fide as Asthana allegedly accepted favours from Gujarat-based Sterling Biotech and Sandesara Group of companies when he was Surat police commissioner in 2011. But the court dismissed the challenge to Asthana’s appointment. It said Asthana’s appointment cannot be struck on the basis of unverified diary entries against him. A fight between CBI director Alok Verma and his deputy, Asthana, also rocked the agency in 2019 and forced the government to divest them of their powers and send them on forced leave. In February 2020, the CBI exonerated Asthana in a criminal conspiracy and corruption against him filed in 2018.• M Nageswara Rao was named CBI interim chief inOctober 2018until the appointment of a new director when Verma was removed as the agency’s chief. Common Cause and activist Anjali Bhardwaj moved the Supreme Court and sought a specific mechanism to ensure transparency in the CBI chief’s appointment. They alleged Rao’s appointment was not made on the recommendations of the selection committee. In their plea before the Supreme Court, the petitioners said: “In fact, it appears that the committee was completely bypassed and had no role in the appointment of Nageswara Rao, thereby rendering the appointment illegal as it is in violation of the procedure for appointment of Director, CBI.” The court dismissed the plea.• Rishi Kumar Shukla was named the CBI director three days after chief minister Kamal Nath removed him as Madhya Pradesh police chief in February 2019. Mallikarjun Kharge, the Congress member of the selection panel, sent a dissent note citing a Supreme Court judgment and the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act that listed seniority, integrity, and experience in investigating corruption cases as prerequisites for the job of CBI director. He claimed that Shukla had no experience in anti-corruption cases. But the objection was overruled, and Shukla completed his tenure in February.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/some-of-cbi-appointments-that-have-recently-sparked-a-row-101621916231051.html
25-05-2021||India||Antigua police launch probe to find missing Mehul Choksi; no leads so far||Antigua police are seeking public assistance for information on Mehul Choksi, an Indian fugitive diamantaire missing since Sunday evening. According to a police statement, Choksi was last seen at about 5:15 pm (local time) before leaving home in a car which has since been recovered. This comes after Choksi's lawyers said that the Indian businessman went for dinner at the southern part of the island and was never seen again.Choksi is wanted by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate (ED) in India in connection with ₹14,000 crore Punjab National Bank (PNB) loan fraud and money-laundering case. He fled to the Caribbean island nation of Antigua and Barbuda in 2018.After an official complaint was lodged at the Johnson Point Police Station, the police launched a manhunt for the Indian businessman. However, it has resulted in nothing so far. "Based on additional information received the police have conducted numerous searches but to no avail," the police informed in the statement.Giving information on his physical attributes for identification purpose, the police asked the public to inform Johnson Point Police Station or the Criminal Investigations Department (CID), in case anyone get any information. "Mehul is described as being of Indian descent, brown in complexion, five feet six inches (5’ 6”) in height, heavily built with a balding hairline. The police are seeking the assistance of the public in knowing the whereabouts of Mr Choksi," the police statement said.It also had numbers for the public to give information: 562-8942/43 and 460-3913/14.Indian agencies - both CBI and ED - have seen the reports and Antiguan police statement regarding Mehul Choksi. They are trying to ascertain more details on the incident through proper channels, said officials.Choksi is accused of siphoning off close to ₹7,080 crore in the ₹13,578 crore Punjab National Bank (PNB) fraud before fleeing to Antigua on January 4, 2018, a month before the mega-scam came to notice. He is the owner of the retail Geetanjali Jewelry Group.Choksi was also allegedly involved in the stock market manipulation in 2013.In December 2018, an Interpol red corner notice has been issued against Choksi, meaning that he will be arrested if he enters an immigration point anywhere in the world.Earlier this year, Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said that Choksi along with his nephew and another PNB scam accused Nirav Modi are "coming back to India" to face the law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/antigua-police-launch-probe-to-find-missing-mehul-choksi-no-leads-so-far-101621915520494.html
25-05-2021||India||Sushil Kumar cried in lock-up, was up all night: Police||Two-time Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar, arrested in connection with the Chhatrasal Stadium brawl case that led to the death of a wrestler, was interrogated for almost four hours, the Delhi Police said on Monday. Kumar along with his associate Ajay were arrested on Sunday from outer Delhi's Mundka area.The police said that Kumar started crying as soon as he was lodged in the police lock-up, Hindustan Times' sister publication Livehindustan reported. He is in remand in the Model Town police station in Delhi, according to Livehindustan.Watch: Sushil Kumar sent to police custodyHe was awake all night in the lock-up and refused to eat anything, according to the police. He cried many times during the night, they added.During his interrogation, Kumar said that he just wanted to scare Sagar Dhankad, the 23-year-old wrestler who was killed during the brawl on May 4. And that is why Dhankad was beaten up, Kumar said according to Livehindustan which quoted police officials.Kumar further said that he stayed in the Chhatrasal stadium after the brawl, but left Delhi after hearing about Dhankad's death, according to Livehindustan.Police officials said they are investigating the case from different angles. "We are questioning Kumar to ascertain the sequence of events that transpired and led the crime and also about his whereabouts after the incident. He was also questioned about his associates and friends who helped him to hide. He will be taken to the spot for recreating the crime scene," a police officer was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.The police had earlier said that the incident took place due to a dispute over a property at the the Model Town area.They, however, refused to divulge details about a purported video of the incident which Kumar had allegedly asked his associate to record.The police said they have seized two double-barrel guns, seven live cartridges, two wooden sticks and five cars in connection with the case.Meanwhile, Northern Railway is set to suspend wrestler Sushil Kumar following his arrest by the Delhi Police in a murder case, a spokesperson said on Monday."The Railway Board has received a report on the case on Sunday from the Delhi government. He has FIRs registered against him and he will be suspended," Northern Railway CPRO Deepak Kumar said.A senior commercial manager with the Northern Railway, Olympic medallist Kumar had been on deputation with the Delhi government since 2015 and was posted as an Officer on Special Duty (OSD) at Chhatrasal Stadium for development of sports at school level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushil-kumar-cried-in-lock-up-was-up-all-night-police-101621914698403.html
25-05-2021||India||India's vaccine-related decisions based on science, says NTAGI chairperson||National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) chairperson Dr NK Arora on Monday justified the government's decision to defer vaccination by three months after clinical recovery from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and said that India based all its decisions regarding vaccination on science, according to news agency ANI."We use scientific evidence and make the best use of vaccines. We are not just trying to have the best efficacy but also trying to see that the country is protected from various variants and waves of coronavirus going forward. We know coronavirus will stay for some time and we want to ensure that the people are adequately protected. Here, I must also say that the vaccine shortage is only for the next six weeks," NK Arora said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageEarlier, the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) had recommended that the vaccination should be deferred by three months after clinical recovery of the illness. According to the Union health ministry, these recommendations were made based on "emerging global scientific evidence and experience". In case a person gets infected with the disease after getting the first dose of their vaccine, the second dose should be deferred by three months after recovery, the recommendations add."We know from July onwards the manufacturing of Covaxin and Covishield will increase 20-25 crore doses per month. In addition, we will be having other vaccines also like Zydus Cadila, Sputnik V, Johnson & Johnson in coming months," NK Arora said.NTAGI recommendations state that according to two studies, one conducted in the UK and the other in the US, chances of reinfection in people get diminished by 84-91% in the 6-7 months following infection because of the presence of antibodies in their systems. Meanwhile, India's decision to defer vaccination of recovered patients by three months was based on data of 1,400 subjects that showed risk of reinfection after 102 days of recovery at only 4.5%, the NTAGI chairperson added.(with ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-vaccine-related-decisions-based-on-science-says-ntagi-chairperson-101621908292466.html
25-05-2021||India||Yaas to cross Odisha, Bengal coasts on Wednesday as 'very severe cyclone'||Cyclone Yaas (pronounced as Yass) over eastcentral Bay of Bengal intensified to a severe cyclonic storm on Monday night, according to India Meteorological DepartmentAt 11.30pm on Monday, Yaas lay centred at about 390 km southsoutheast of Paradip (Odisha), 490 km south-southeast of Balasore (Odisha), 470 km southsoutheast of Digha (West Bengal), and 500 kms south-southwest of Khepupara (Bangladesh).It is very likely to move north-northwestwards, intensifying further into a very severe cyclonic storm during the next few hours. It would continue to move north-northwestwards, intensify further and reach northwest Bay of Bengal near north Odisha and West Bengal coasts by Wednesday early morning. It is very likely to cross north Odisha-West Bengal coasts between Paradip and Sagar Island around Balasore, during Wednesday noon as a very severe cyclonic storm.Initially, IMD had said Yass would make landfall around Wednesday evening but advanced the time of landfall on Monday. “At the time of landfall, we are expecting wind speed to be around 155 to 165 kmph gusting to 185 kmph. Once Yaas intensifies to a Severe Cyclone we are also expecting its sea travel to be faster which is why the landfall time has been advanced,” said Sunitha Devi, in charge, cyclones at IMD.Also Read | 27 districts in UP to experience heavy rain under Cyclone Yaas impact: ReportThough oceanic and atmospheric conditions over Bay of Bengal are extremely favourable for intensification of Yaas, experts hope it will not intensify to an extremely severe cyclone because Yaas has formed relatively close to the coast and has less time over the unusually warm ocean.Extensive damage is expected along north Odisha and WB coasts on May 26. There could be total destruction of thatched houses and extensive damage to kutcha houses; some damage to pucca houses; potential threat from flying objects; bending or uprooting of power and communication poles; flooding of escape routes; disruption of railways, overhead power lines and signalling systems; widespread damage to standing crops, plantations, orchards, falling of coconuts and tearing of palm fronds; blowing down of bushy trees; small boats, country crafts may get detached from moorings.Tidal waves of 2-4 metre height above astronomical tide are likely to inundate low lying coastal areas of Jhargram, south 24 Parganas, Medinipur, Balasore, Bhadrak, Kendrapara and Jagatsighpur districts around the time of the landfall.Light to moderate rainfall at many places with heavy falls at isolated places over coastal Odisha is likely on Monday with heavy to very heavy rainfall over Puri, Jagatsinghpur, Khurda, Cuttack, Kendrapara, Jajpur, Bhadrak, Balasore districts and heavy over Ganjam, Dhenkanal, Mayurbhanj districts on May 25, heavy to very heavy rains at a few places with extremely heavy rain (over 20 cm) at isolated places in Jagatsinghpur, Cuttack, Kendrapara, Jajpur, Bhadrak, Balasore, Mayurbhanj, Dhenkanal, Keonjhar and heavy falls at isolated places in Puri, Khurda, Angul, Deogarh, Sundergarh on May 26.Over West Bengal and Sikkim, light to moderate rainfall is likely at most places with heavy falls at isolated places over coastal districts of West Bengal on Monday. Heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely over Medinipur, South 24 Parganas and heavy rainfall at isolated places in Howrah, Hooghly, North 24 Parganas on May 25, extremely heavy rainfall (over 20 cm) is likely at isolated places over Jhargram, Medinipur, south 24 Parganas and heavy to very heavy rainfall at a few places over Purulia, Bankura, Bardhaman, Howrah, Hooghly, Kolkata , north 24 Parganas, Bhirbhum, Nadia, Murshidabad, Darjeeling districts on May 26. Heavy to very heavy rain is likely at isolated places over Malda, Darjeeling, Dinajpur, Kalimpong, Jalpaiguri, Sikkim, Bankura, Purulia, Bardhaman, Bhirbhum and Murshidabad on May 27.Also Read | Impact of Cyclone Yaas to be much more than Amphan, says Mamata: 10 pointsOver Jharkhand, light to moderate rainfall is likely at most places with heavy to very heavy rainfall and extremely heavy falls at isolated places on May 26, 27 and 28. Over Bihar, light to moderate rainfall is likely at most places with heavy to very heavy rainfall and extremely heavy falls at isolated places on May 27 and 28. Moderate to heavy rain is also likely over Assam and Meghalaya.Gale winds of speed reaching 70–80 kmph gusting to 90 kmph are prevailing over westcentral adjoining eastcentral Bay of Bengal. Gusting over major parts of central Bay of Bengal, they would decrease gradually from May 25 afternoon.Squally wind speed reaching 40-50 kmph gusting 60 kmph is prevailing over north Bay of Bengal and adjoining westcentral Bay of Bengal along and off north Andhra Pradesh, Odisha–West Bengal–Bangladesh coasts. It would increase gradually, becoming 50-60 kmph gusting to 70 kmph from May 25 forenoon and increase further becoming gale wind speed of 60-70 kmph gusting to 80 kmph from May 26 early hours over northwest Bay of Bengal and along and off West Bengal and north Odisha and Bangladesh coasts.Wind speed would gradually increase further becoming 90-100 gusting to 110 kmph from May 26 early hours and increase thereafter, becoming 155-165 kmph gusting to 185 kmph over northwest Bay of Bengal along and off Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapara, Bhadrak, Balasore and east Medinipur districts, 90-120 kmph gusting to 145 kmph over Khurda, Puri, south and north 24 Parganas, west Medinipur, Howrah and Hooghly districts; 70-90 kmph gusting to 100 kmph over Jhargram, Nadia, Bankura; 60-80 kmph gusting to 90 kmph over Ganjam, Gajapati and 50-60 kmph gusting to 70 kmph over Srikakulam, Vijayanagaram and Vishakhapatnam districts at the time of landfall.Sea condition is likely to be high to very high (9-14 metres wave height/38-63 wind speed in kts) over westcentral and adjoining eastcentral Bay of Bengal. It is very likely to become very high to phenomenal (up to 14 metres high waves and wind speeds up to 64 knots) over northern parts of central Bay of Bengal, north Bay of Bengal and along and off north Andhra Pradesh, Odisha–West Bengal-Bangladesh coasts during May 25 and 26.Fishermen have been advised not to venture into central Bay of Bengal during May 24 -25 and into north Bay of Bengal and along and off north Andhra Pradesh-Odisha-West Bengal–Bangladesh coasts from May 24 to 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yaas-to-cross-odisha-bengal-coasts-on-wednesday-as-very-severe-cyclone-101621913349781.html
25-05-2021||India||Delhi Police visits Twitter offices to probe 'manipulated' tag: All you need to know||A team of Delhi police visited Twitter India offices on Monday, to seek clarification after the micro-blogging site tagged Bharatiya Janata Party's national spokesperson Sambit Patra's tweet as "manipulated media". "This was necessitated as we wanted to ascertain who is the right person to serve a notice, as replies by Twitter India MD have been very ambiguous," the team said.Two teams of the special cell were at the Twitter India offices located in Delhi's Lado Sarai and Gurgaon, part of the national capital region.The visit came after the special cell also sent a notice to the social media giant, in which it asked Twitter to explain the rationale and share all the information on how it described the toolkit as manipulated media.The city police’s special cell has been conducting an inquiry into a complaint filed with the police chief and the Tughlak Road police station on May 18 by two Congress party leaders, seeking an FIR against some BJP leaders for allegedly “forging documents, and circulating fabricated material on Twitter under the hashtag CongressToolkitExposed”.Twitter is yet to make an official statement over the issue.What is the 'toolkit' row?BJP has accused the Congress of creating a social media toolkit, or a campaign to malign Prime Minister Narendra Modi's image over the government’s handling of the second wave of Covid-19, and the Central Vista Project.However, the Congress party has denied the allegation and instead has accused BJP of forging "Covid-19 mismanagement document to divert attention."On May 21, Patra released details of the toolkit in which he claimed that it was created by Rajeev Gowda, in charge of Congress' research wing.What Congress saysThe Congress accused the BJP of concocting the document on Covid-19 to defame the opposition party. It wrote to Twitter on Thursday seeking action against Patra and other BJP leaders for “grossly misusing” the platform. Congress accused the BJP of indulging in “large-scale dissemination of false information”, which “has the potential to cause social unrest in the country”.On Monday, Gowda said, “This is an effort to cover up the whole thing. The BJP hatched a conspiracy to cook up a forged document and they have been caught. Now they are trying to browbeat Twitter. They have no legal authority to do that.”'Attempt to "murder" freedom of speech'In a video statement released hours after the police visit to Twitter offices, Congress' national spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said it exposes the "lameduck attempts" to hide a "fraudulent toolkit" by BJP leaders.Such attempts to "murder" freedom of speech lay bare the BJP’s guilt, he also said and tagged his video statement on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-police-visits-twitter-offices-to-probe-manipulated-tag-all-you-need-to-know-101621912543441.html
25-05-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 am: Windy day in Delhi today; AQI in moderate category and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 AM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Windy day ahead; Delhi AQI in moderate category todayStrong surface winds are likely to prevail on Tuesday as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. The minimum temperature on Tuesday is likely to be 23 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to hover around 37°C. The minimum temperature on Monday was 21.2°C and the maximum temperature was 36°C. Read moreCipla's real-time Covid-19 testing kit 'ViraGen' to be sold from todayA real-time coronavirus disease (Covid-19) testing kit, launched last week by pharmaceutical company Cipla, will be in the market from Tuesday, the company said. The RT-PCR test kit is called 'ViraGen' and is manufactured for the country by the drug major in partnership with Ubio Biotechnology Systems. Read more'Can't be better prepared': Shubman Gill confident about India's chances to win WTC final against New ZealandIndia batsman Shubman Gill believes the Virat Kohli-led unit has a good chance of winning the inaugural World Test Championship tournament by defeating Kane Williamson's New Zealand in the final. Read morePriyanka Chopra shares her 'secret behind good marriage', after 2 years of marriage with Nick JonasActor Priyanka Chopra has shared her secret to a good marriage, and also revealed how she managed to plan the "world's most epic wedding". She tied the knot with American singer Nick Jonas in two grand ceremonies in December 2018. Read moreChai with a twist: This Parle-G chai popsicle recipe may be your new summer favouriteThe Internet may have some videos showcasing odd fusion food concoctions but sometimes it churns out recipes that can make one eager to try it out. Case in point, this chai biscuit popsicle that can easily be a nice snack during the summer season. If you’re a chai lover and love experimenting then this is indeed a perfect recipe for you to try. Read moreCyclone Yaas: Heavy rains hit Odisha; Mamata alleges discrimination on fundsHeavy rain hit Odisha as the state braced for cyclone Yaas. Cyclone Yaas is expected to make landfall on May 26. Landfall is expected in North Odisha and it will be the most affected area. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-am-windy-day-in-delhi-today-aqi-in-moderate-category-and-all-the-latest-news-101621909540155.html
25-05-2021||India||Assam CM says Akhil Gogoi being treated for mental problems; invites criticism||Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Monday told the state assembly that president of Raijor Dal and newly-elected MLA from Sibsagar, Akhil Gogoi, was undergoing treatment for mental health related issues and was currently unfit to attend the assembly session. Gogoi’s party said Sarma’s remarks were insulting and a breach of the MLA’s privilege.Gogoi has been under arrest since December, 2019 for his role in the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protests. The 45-year-old, who is under treatment at Guwahati Medical College Hospital (GMCH) for various ailments, was allowed to participate in the oath-taking ceremony of new MLAs held on Friday by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) court hearing his case.After taking oath, Gogoi requested the assembly speaker to let him take part in the entire session. Earlier, Gogoi had alleged manhandling by police and administrative officials while being brought to the assembly from GMCH.“How can a sick person be allowed to take part in the assembly session? Gogoi has been under treatment at GMCH for the past four months. He is getting treatment for psychological issues, emotional imbalance and mental problems,” Sarma said on the last day of the first session of the new assembly.“He forgot Covid protocol when he came to the assembly on the first day to take oath and went from one desk to another meeting everyone inside the house. If he says he is not sick, [then] he should be in jail. And if he is sick, he should not attend the assembly,” he added.Sarma’s response came after the speaker sought the government’s view on Gogoi’s request. The CM argued that since Gogoi was ill, he shouldn’t be exposed to others and allowed to take part in assembly proceedings.“The CM used insulting and demeaning words against our party president. Sarma doesn’t have what it takes to face Gogoi and hence uses all means to ensure he doesn’t take part in the assembly,” said Raijor Dal working president Bhasco De Saikia.Saikia further alleged that the state government’s official stand on Gogoi’s request for attending the entire session had no mention of mental illness. “...but a letter to the speaker from the home and political department, headed by the CM, says that as Gogoi’s matter was sub judice, he should approach the court for reprieve. This clearly exposes the CM’s stand in the assembly,” he said.Saikia said the CM shouldn’t have disclosed Gogoi’s medical condition in the assembly and also accused Sarma of breaking Covid-19 protocol several times in the past.Raijor Dal later said that Gogoi was contemplating filing a breach of privilege motion against the CM for his statements in the assembly on Monday.Replying to a discussion on the Motion of Thanks on the governor’s address, the CM again asked the banned United Liberation Front of Asom-Independent (ULFA-I) to shun violence and join the peace talks. He indicated that soon a peace deal would be signed with rebel outfits in the Karbi Anglong areas.Sarma listed the government’s achievements in fighting Covid and said it supplied oxygen to other northeastern states and medicines to states like Jharkhand and Telangana.The CM also assured that the government will fulfill all its promises including providing jobs to 100,000 youths and waiving off loans taken by women groups from microfinance companies.Sarma said a new department comprising experts will be created to construct embankments on the Brahmaputra and efforts will be undertaken to dredge its tributaries with the aim to make a flood-free Assam.He added that Bharatiya Janata Party’s return to power was also a mandate for re-verification of the National Register of Citizens (NRC) as promised by the party before polls.The Sarma-led government also proposes to make a law for protection of cows in the next assembly session.“We believe cows are our mother. So, we want to put an end to transportation of cows from West Bengal. The directive principles of our constitution say cows shouldn’t be slaughtered,” he said.Reacting to Sarma’s speech, the opposition Congress said the government avoided crucial issues like Covid-19 management and the National Register of Citizens (NRC).“We are committed to performing the role of a responsible opposition. But as per the mandate given to us by voters, we will continue to raise crucial issues,” said leader of Congress legislature party, Debabrata Saikia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-cm-says-akhil-gogoi-being-treated-for-mental-problems-invites-criticism-101621912749524.html
25-05-2021||India||27 districts in UP to experience heavy rain under Cyclone Yaas impact: Report||At least 27 districts in Uttar Pradesh are likely to witness heavy rainfall and storm-like conditions from May 24-28, Hindustan Times' sister publication Livehindustan reported on Tuesday, quoting the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The district authorities have been asked to make necessary arrangements, Livehindustan reported.The districts flagged by the weather department are Muradabad, Bijnore, Amroha, Sambhal, Badaun, Kasganj, Bahraich, Barabanki, Gonda, Shrawasti, Balrampur, Sidharthnagar, Basti, Ayodhya, Amethi, Sultanpur, Jaunpur, Ambedkar Nagar, Mau, Azamgarh, Ghazipur, Ballia, Deoria, Sant Kabirbagr and Maharajganj.The warning has been issued in the wake of Cyclone Yaas, which has intensified and moving towards the eastern coast of the country, according to Livehindustan. The cyclone's impact will be felt in east Indian states of Jharkhand, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. In UP, Gorakhpur, Prayagraj and Lucknow could also witness weather changes due to the cyclone, the report further said.According to former Banaras Hindu University (BHU) professor and climate scientist Dr SN Pandey, the areas in states which will be impacted by the cyclone may witness high wind speeds and rain, Livehindustan reported.Yaas is likely to make landfall near Balasore in north Odisha at a speed of 155 kmph to 165 kmph, gusting to 185 kmph, on May 26, the weather department said on Monday.Anticipating the fury of the storm, Union home minister Amit Shah reviewed preparations including evacuation of people in vulnerable coastal areas and safe return of all ships and vessels as well as safety of Covid-19 facilities such as oxygen plants, mostly located in eastern India.At a video conference held with the chief ministers of Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and West Bengal and the Lieutenant Governor of Andaman and Nicobar Islands, besides officials of concerned ministries, the minister said a 24x7 control room is functioning in the MHA, which can be contacted by them any time for assistance.A massive evacuation drive has been launched in all low-lying areas and vulnerable storm-surge pockets, following the IMD predicting a tidal surge of 2-4.5 meters during the landfall of Yaas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/27-districts-in-up-to-experience-rain-under-cyclone-yaas-impact-report-101621912006844.html
25-05-2021||India||Cyclone Yaas becomes 'severe', alert in Bihar and Jharkhand: 10 points||The states on India's eastern coast are on alert ahead of the landfall of Cyclone Yaas, which has been brewing in the Bay of Bengal. It comes days after another powerful cyclonic storm Tauktae battered the country's western coast and killed at least 140 people.Cyclone Yaas, which intensified into severe cyclonic storm on Monday night, is expected to make landfall between Paradip and Sagar islands (in West Bengal) close to Balasore in Odisha early on Wednesday morning and could pack sustained winds of up to 165 kilometers per hour, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).The IMD has predicted a tidal surge of 2-4.5 metres during the landfall of Yaas, according to officials. The massive storm comes as India is battling a second wave of Covid-19, complicating efforts to deal with both.Here are the latest on Cyclone Yaas:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-yaas-becomes-severe-alerts-in-bihar-and-jharkhand-10-points-101621908907579.html
25-05-2021||India||Cyclone Yaas: Locals evacuated to shelter homes in Odisha's Jagatsinghpur||With impending very severe cyclonic storm Yaas predicted to make landfall on the Odisha-West Bengal border on the eastern coast of the country, the district administration evacuated locals from their homes to shelter homes in Jagatsinghpur district.Speaking to ANI Lakshmi from Sandhakud in Paradeep said, "During the last cyclone, my family lost everything. We luckily survived. I have come here with my husband, daughter, and her children."According to the India Metrological Department (IMD), Cyclone Yaas is likely to cross between Paradeep and Sagar Island near Balasore at noon on May 26.WATCH| Cyclone Yaas: Heavy rains hit Odisha; Mamata alleges discrimination on fundsSamir, from Sandhakud, said, "Our house is 100-200m away from the sea. After district administration cautioned us that severe cyclonic storm is on its way, our family of 10 came here."Earlier on Monday, Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik requested people who are in cyclone-prone areas to move to shelter homes."At a time when we are fighting with Covid-19, we have yet another challenge in the form of #CycloneYaas. The priority is to save every life, I request all those in cyclone-prone areas to move to shelter homes & cooperate with administration," said Patnaik.The Odisha Government on Monday assigned the high-risk districts to Senior Officers to supervise relief, rehabilitation and restoration work in the wake of the severe Cyclonic storm 'Yaas' which is expected to hit the coasts of Odisha and West Bengal on May 26.Listing the IAS officers, a statement issued by the Additional Secretary, Indramani Tripathy, read, "The following 1AS officers are assigned the districts noted against each for supervision of relief, rehabilitation and restoration works arising out of very severe Cyclonic storm 'Yaas'.The officers concerned are requested to proceed to the respective districts immediately. More than 800 Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force (ODRAF) personnel are in a high state of readiness for the cyclone YaasAccording to the India Meteorological Department said the Cyclone Yaas is expected to hit the coasts of Odisha and West Bengal on May 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-yaas-locals-evacuated-to-shelter-homes-in-odisha-s-jagatsinghpur-101621906303712.html
25-05-2021||India||Delhiwale: The happiness bench||One of the most hauntingly beautiful park benches in Delhi is in Lodhi Garden. This is the one under a dead tree, its back picturesquely turned towards the Sheesh Gumbad tomb. The tree’s leafless branches spread over the bench like the wailing limbs of a grief-stricken person. Decades ago, novelist Anita Desai famously posed for a photograph on this bench—the place has already been featured in these pages.But another equally beautiful park bench can be found in the so-called Friendship Park, adjacent to Aurobindo Marg in south Delhi. The park isn’t famous. But it’s a happy bench, and looking at it is enough to cheer the heart. Its back too is picturesquely turned towards a centuries-old stone monument—Dadi-Poti ka Gumbad. But the tree that stands above is not a long-dead corpse.Rather the opposite.An amaltas tree is standing behind it, currently in bloom, entirely covered with golden yellow flowers. Two gigantic Bougainvillea creepers, dense with pink flowers, complete the picture.And then there’s the towering monument, bringing a touch of frowning stateliness to the extravagantly colourful setting. Indeed, the sight is too unreal, almost vulgar in its luxuriousness, like a nouveau rich drawing room crammed up with imported chandeliers and marbles. If an artist had recreated this setting on her canvass, the work might have been dismissed as over the top.Most of the year the bench enjoys the company of the bougainvillaeas and the monument only, and it still looks plenty and pretty. But in summer months, when the amaltas joins the show, the bench acquires the soul of a fairy tale.The fact that the rest of the park is ordinary makes this spot even more special. As if the bench wasn’t made for the park, but the park was made for the bench and its leafy soulmates. In any case, the bench ought to be experienced by leaving it empty. No point in sitting on it and having your back turned to what makes the whole point of it.A few more weeks and the golden flowers will vanish. The bench will then be stained with just the bougainvillea pink. Its special beauty will come back after a year. This realisation abruptly makes its present appearance less joyful, more fragile, and thus more beautiful.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhiwale-the-happiness-bench-101621903013171.html
25-05-2021||India||Delhi HC questions Centre's decision denying visa to OCI card holder as mother visited Pakistan||The Delhi High Court Monday asked the Centre as to how it can stop a person from coming to India merely because his mother used to visit Pakistan.The query was posed to the central government by Justice Rekha Palli during the hearing of a plea by three US citizens, who are also Overseas Citizen of India (OCI) card holders, challenging denial of visa to them to visit their family here."How can you stop a person from coming to India just because his mother used to visit Pakistan," the court said and issued notice to the ministries of external affairs and home affairs and the Consulate General of India in New York, USA, seeking their stand on the plea by June 9.The petitioner claimed that he, his wife and two daughters had applied for renewal of their OCI cards, and in January 2021, his wife's card was renewed.However, his and his daughters' OCI cards were not renewed for the reason that his mother lived in Pakistan during her childhood and visited that country even after marriage when she had become an Indian citizen, said the petition, filed through advocate Abha Roy.Roy said that according to a circular issued by the central government, OCI need not be renewed for these three card holders.According to the central government circular anyone who gets an OCI card after turning 20 years of age need not get it renewed till the age of 50 years after which he/she has to renew it once. However, if the card is obtained after 50 years of age, then no renewal is ever required, the lawyer told the court.She told the court that the central government failed to appreciate that the petitioner got the OCI card after he turned 50 years old and his two daughters got the card after they turned 20 years and therefore, no renewal was required.Despite that he was not being allowed to travel to India, Roy told the court and added that this amounted to non-application of mind by the government in interpreting its own circular.The petitioners want to travel urgently to India as the petitioner's mother is in very poor health, the plea said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-questions-centre-s-decision-denying-visa-to-oci-card-holder-as-mother-visited-pakistan-101621902641610.html
25-05-2021||India||Covid curbs in Gujarat: Police raid coaching centre with 555 students inside, arrests owner||A coaching centre owner in Jasdan town of Gujarat's Rajkot district was arrested for allegedly flouting Covid-19 norms after police found more than 550 students in his premises during a raid, police said on Monday. The raid on the centre, located some 215 kilomeres from here, took place on Sunday and its owner, identified as 39-year-old Jaysukh Sankhalva, was arrested on Monday, said Rajkot Superintendent of Police Balram Meena. "He was arrested under IPC and Epidemic Diseases Act provisions for disobeying police notification on Covid-19 norms as well as for negligent act which may spread infection. The children have been handed over to their parents," he said. According to police, Sankhalva runs a coaching centre-cum-hostel to provide training to students appearing for Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya and Balachadi Sainik School entrance exams. "Based on a tip off, we raided the premises and found 555 students between the age of 9-10 taking tuition. These children were not wearing masks nor was social distancing being maintained. The centre was functioning despite the state government's ban on classroom teaching due to the Covid-19 outbreak," Jasdan police station sub inspector JH Sisodiya said. Before his arrest, Sankhalva told reporters the students were staying in his hostel since May 15 with parental consent. "Most of them are supposed to appear for Navodaya Vidyalaya entrance test, which got postponed. The parents of these children asked me to keep them in the hostel rather than send them home," he claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-curbs-in-gujarat-police-raid-coaching-centre-with-555-students-inside-arrests-owner-101621901695593.html
25-05-2021||India||Centre allows walk-in vaccines for all adults||The Union government on Monday allowed states to open on-site registration, appointments, and administration of doses for adults below the age of 45 seeking coronavirus vaccines, after repeated calls to abandon the digital-only system that critics said was leaving out people who did not have access to smartphones or the internet.The feature at present is being enabled only for government vaccination centres, the health ministry said, and it will depend on the state government to decide whether they want to allow on-site registrations and appointments based on the “local context”.The move comes at a time when vaccines for the younger adult age group became available from May 1 but the demand soon surpassed supplies, exhausting stocks, and halting the drive in several states, including Delhi, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, and Telangana.“Based on the various representations given by the states and inputs received by Union health ministry for the vaccination of 18-45 year age group, the Union government has now decided to provide facility of on-site registration/facilitated cohort registration on Co-WIN digital platform for 18-45 years age group,” the statement said.The statement noted that “even though Co-WIN provides for features such as registration of up to 4 beneficiaries with a mobile number, facilitated registration and appointments through applications, such as AarogyaSetu and Umang and through the Common Service Centres etc, people requiring cohort’s facility and those without access to internet or smart phones or mobile phones may still have limited access for vaccination”.The move was also meant to reduce vaccine wastage, the government said, suggesting states to open up vaccination centres to walk-in recipients if they have doses left over from appointment no-shows.“In case of sessions exclusively organised with online slots, towards the end of the day, some doses may still be left unutilized in case the online appointee beneficiaries do not turn up on day of vaccination due to any reason. In such cases, on-site registration of a few beneficiaries may be necessary to minimise the vaccine wastage,” the statement said.Experts pointed out that while the walk-in option may not immediately alter the pace of vaccination, it is a big policy shift whose impact will be visible when next month’s supplies are available.“It will help in hastening the pace; care should be taken to prevent super-spreader events at vaccination sites. For meaningful increase in the pace of coverage, comprehensive micro-planning and mobilisation strategies are needed,” said Dr Giridhara R Babu, head, epidemiology, Indian institute Of Public Health.The government opened vaccinations for the under-45 adult age group on this month, but people need to first register online and book a slot before they can be served at vaccination centres.The demand has been such that several states have run out of the limited supplies of vaccines they received for the 18-45 age group, including Delhi where deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Monday that the 400 vaccination centres for this group have been shut from this week due to a lack of doses.Sisodia earlier wrote a strongly worded letter to Union health minister Harsh Vardhan, saying the vaccination for the youth in the country has been “messed” up due to policy “missteps”.“In spite of early advantages given by our scientific community and Indian manufacturers, we have squandered away the great opportunity of timely vaccination of our people. The missed opportunity by the Government of India has resulted in extraordinary loss of lives during the current wave of Covid pandemic,” he wrote to Vardhan.The rate of vaccinations has fallen gradually in the country, after recording a peak of over 4 million doses that was delivered in a single day in early April. In the week ending May 10, this number was down to 2.15 million doses on average, followed by 1.82 million in the week ending May 17 and 1.48 million in the 7-day period after that.In addition to Delhi, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana are among states that halted vaccinations for this age group. Many of these have floated tenders to procure doses directly from foreign developers but have not been able to draw much interest.The Centre has also directed states to issue clear instructions to all district immunisation officers, to strictly adhere to decision regarding the extent and manner of using the on-site registration and appointment feature for this age group.“State/UT must decide on opening of on-site registrations/facilitated cohorts’ registration and appointments for 18-45 years age group based on the local context just as an additional measure to minimize vaccine wastage and for facilitating vaccination of eligible beneficiaries in the age group 18-45 years. Also, abundant caution should be exercised and extreme due care should be taken while opening up of on-site registration… in order to avoid overcrowding at vaccination centres,” the statement further read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-allows-walk-in-vaccines-for-all-adults-101621902301372.html
25-05-2021||India||DGCA orders probe as couple gets married aboard SpiceJet flight||The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on Monday initiated an inquiry into the reports of a mid-air wedding ceremony on a chartered SpiceJet flight in violation of Covid-19 protocols and in-flight rules, officials familiar with the matter said. The aviation regulator has also de-rostered the crew of the flight, the officials said.The action has come after photos of a couple from Madurai that got married on May 23 on a SpiceJet Boeing 737 with nearly 100 wedding guests were widely shared on social media. In the photos shared online, the ceremony is proceeding in the aisle of the aircraft; no social distancing norms are being followed; and no one is sporting masks.Reports have suggested that the couple did this to avoid restrictions currently in place on weddings in light of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic; in Tamil Nadu for instance, only 50 guests are allowed at a wedding; according to reports, there were nearly 100 passengers on board, all guests of the couple.The DGCA has issued a show-cause notice to SpiceJet and sought a detailed report on the incident. “DGCA has directed SpiceJet to lodge complaint against those not following Covid-19 appropriate behaviour with relevant authorities,” an official of the aviation regulator said on condition of anonymity.The couple chartered the flight through a travel agent for a round trip between Madurai and Bangalore, SpiceJet said in a statement on Monday.A SpiceJet spokesperson said the travel agent and the passengers were briefed in detail about the Covid-19 safety norms. “The client was clearly briefed on Covid guidelines... The approval for this flight was taken as a joy ride for the wedding group,” the spokesperson said.The aviation regulator in September 2020 issued an order stating that an airline’s service on a particular route can be suspended for two weeks if it fails to act against those who violate in-flight norms, including a ban on mid-air photography. In a March order, DGCA directed airport authorities and airlines to take action against those not complying with Covid-19 norms.The airline is also planning to take action against the passengers, the SpiceJet spokesperson added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dgca-orders-probe-as-couple-gets-married-aboard-spicejet-flight-101621902069746.html
25-05-2021||India||LG asks officials to assess stock, requirement of black fungus drug in capital||Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal on Monday directed officials to undertake a real-time assessment and review of the requirement of drugs needed to treat black fungus in city hospitals and ensure their “immediate procurement”, senior officials from the L-G’s office said.He also directed officials to address any additional and prospective logistical requirements in hospitals with regard to the treatment of black fungus at the earliest, they said.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said Delhi has around 500 cases of black fungus. “For black fungus, we have made three centres at LNJP, Rajiv Gandhi, and GTB Hospitals, but there is no medicine. We did not receive the medicine yesterday, so how can we treat the patients without the medicine,” he said on the sidelines of his visit to an oxygen depot in Mayapuri on Monday.“The injection is administered four to five times a day, if we are not given the injection, how can we treat the patient? This illness has emerged suddenly and there is a shortage of its medicine in the market, so the Centre is distributing medicines to all the states,” he said.The chief minister urged the Centre to increase production of Amphotericin B.“We need 2,000 injections every day, but we are receiving only around 400-500 injections,” he said.Baijal also asked for “a robust and effective system” to ensure proper screening, diagnosis, reporting and treatment of the disease, including the availability of essential drugs and health care facilities in accordance with the protocol and guidelines of the Union health ministry, needs to be put in place across both government and private hospitals.“Simultaneously, the L-G said, steps may also be taken to disseminate information about the infection, its prevention and cure amongst the general public to avoid any situation of panic,” the official from the L-G’s office quoted above said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lg-asks-officials-to-assess-stock-requirement-of-black-fungus-drug-in-capital-101621901682462.html
25-05-2021||India||Centralised policy to procure, allot vaccines a must: Sisodia||Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Monday wrote to Union health minister Harsh Vardhan, urging the central government to come up with a centralised vaccine procurement and allocation policy. In his letter, Sisodia, who is Delhi’s nodal minister for Covid-19 management, also said that vaccination for the “youth in India” has been “messed” up due to policy “missteps”.“In spite of early advantages given by our scientific community and Indian manufacturers, we have squandered away the great opportunity of timely vaccination of our people. The missed opportunity by the Government of India has resulted in an extraordinary loss of lives during the current wave of Covid pandemic,” Sisodia wrote.“To prevent any further loss of life, it is our humble request to the Government of India to come out with a centralised vaccine procurement and allocation policy. Delhi is ready to pay for the cost of the vaccine,” he added.The deputy chief minister said the rejection of global tenders filed by the Delhi government has posed a serious challenge, which only the central government can resolve.Meanwhile, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled Centre is “only indulging in business” by allowing just two companies to manufacture vaccines in India.“In today’s date, the Delhi government does not have vaccines, but if you call a private hospital, they will give you the vaccine for ₹1,200, and in some cases and ₹1,400. Approximately, it can be assumed that a profit of ₹1,000 is being made on one vaccine dose,” Bhardwaj said.The Delhi BJP said the AAP is lobbying for approval for foreign vaccine manufacturers to do business in India.All govt centres for 18-45 group shut: Delhi govtAll government centres immunising those between 18 and 44 will be closed Tuesday onwards, AAP MLA Atishi said, saying the government will have no doses of Covaxin or Covishield left after Monday’s inoculations.She added that the government allocated over 817,000 doses of both the vaccines for May, which were exhausted before the end of the month. For June, the allocation is less than half that number, she said. This will pose a challenge for those due for the second Covaxin dose.At least, 148,470 persons between ages 18 and 44 in Delhi have received a Covaxin shot in May, according to government data. The two Covishield doses have to be administered 12 to 16 weeks apart.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centralised-policy-to-procure-allot-vaccines-a-must-sisodia-101621900813786.html
25-05-2021||India||No deals with states, say Pfizer, Moderna||US pharmaceutical giants Pfizer and Moderna have told the Delhi government that they will deal only with the central government, and not sell Covid-19 vaccines individually to states, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Monday, highlighting a major problem in scaling up vaccine stocks at a time when central supplies are much lower that the vaccination demands and capacities of most Indian states.Government vaccination centres in the Capital have been shut for those below 45 years of age due to non-availability of doses, and the Delhi government is trying -- as are other state governments -- to place orders with foreign manufacturers. Centres for those above 45 have also been reduced from at least 650 to about 450.“We have spoken to Pfizer and Moderna for vaccines, and both the manufacturers have refused to sell directly to us. They have said they will deal with the central government. We appeal to the Centre to import vaccines and distribute to the states,” Kejriwal told reporters on Monday. His statement came a day after Punjab said Moderna refused to sell vaccines directly to the state.“We need vaccines. The Centre talked to Moderna, and Pfizer, and completed negotiations within 2-3 days. Why can’t it talk again to [vaccine] companies and complete negotiations in 3-4 days? Why is it not being done urgently? Bharat Biotech, which is manufacturing Covaxin, is willing to share its formula with everyone. A national newspaper reported that 16 companies here can produce Covaxin. Out of them, Bharat Biotech has struck a deal with only two companies. The Centre should order, not request, these 16 companies to start production within the next few days,” he added.Not long after Kejriwal’s comments, Pfizer issued a statement, saying “Pfizer will supply Covid-19 vaccine only to central govts & supra-national orgs for deployment in national immunization programs. Allocation of doses and implementation plan within a country is a decision for local governments based on relevant health authority guidance.”Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, Union health ministry, during the Covid-19 media briefing on Monday, said, “We want to explain to you all whether it is Pfizer or Moderna, the Centre is coordinating with both companies at two levels: one is their regulatory facilitation in terms of approvals, and the other is procurement related facilitation. But most of the time for both, Pfizer and Moderna, their supply books are already full. They will come back to government of India, and we will coordinate and facilitate supplies,” he said.Later n the afternoon, at a press briefing, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia stressed that the Delhi government has reached out to Moderna, Pfizer and Johnson&Johnson for vaccines, of which the first two have refused.“We asked the Centre for vaccines for the younger people, to which it replied that Delhi will only get 400,000 and the rest must be procured through a global tender. So, we reached out to foreign manufacturers and they have said they will only give to the Centre. The Centre is solely responsible for vaccine shortage in the country,” he said.The deputy chief minister urged the central government to expedite approvals to foreign vaccines, and procure, and distribute them among states.On April 13, India made a significant modification to its regulatory processes for foreign-made Covid vaccines to consider an emergency use application without a precondition of a clinical trial in local population. It said it would allow all vaccines that were granted approvals in the US, the UK, the EU, Japan, or by the World Health Organization (WHO) with only bridging trials that could go on simultaneously. Several weeks later, however, none of the eligible companies have received approvals.Experts say that several of them have committed their stocks to countries that moved faster than India. “There is likely to be another surge in cases. Over the past one year, there has been two distinct surges in India and 3 for Delhi. This period has to be utilised to give at least the first dose of the vaccine to as many as possible. A solution has to be found immediately to expedite procurement. It looks like that the number of doses available will go up from July; after that there is a need for aggressive vaccination. That is the only hope for preventing another surge,” said Dr Amit Singh, associate professor at Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru.India’s Covid-19 vaccination rate peaked at over 4 million on April 10, but has since been gradually declining. In the week ending May 24, average daily vaccinations came to about 1.48 million, falling from 1.82 million in the week preceding it and 2.15 million in the week before that.Sisodia highlighted some of the problems over India’s delay in granting approvals to foreign-made vaccines, and wrote a letter to Union heath minister Harsh Vardhan. “In spite of early advantages given by our scientific community and Indian manufacturers, we have squandered away the great opportunity of timely vaccination of our people. The missed opportunity by the Government of India has resulted in extraordinary loss of lives during the current wave of Covid pandemic... To prevent any further loss of life, it is our humble request to the Government of India to come out with a centralised vaccine procurement and allocation policy. Delhi is ready to pay for the cost of the vaccine,” Sisodia said in his letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-deals-with-states-say-pfizer-moderna-101621900338001.html
25-05-2021||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||India ended Sunday, May 23, with a total of 222,881 cases. The second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic is definitely waning. The death toll remained high though (4,451 on May 23), but since deaths lag cases by around two weeks it will take some time for the number of daily deaths to start declining. What we are seeing now are deaths resulting from a time when the number of cases was still high (in absolute terms 220,000+ is high, but compared to the 400,000+ India was seeing not so long ago, it is a definite improvement).Just to put things in context, the seven-day average of daily cases rose from 373,321 on May 2 to 391,819 on May 9 (the highest the average reached) before it started falling (and pretty sharply at that), to 328,947 on May 16 and further to 255,198 on May 23. The corresponding seven-day averages of daily deaths were 3,394, 3,895, 4,037, and 4,190 respectively (the lag effect is evident here). It is likely that states where lockdowns are still in place (pretty much most states), will start removing them as early as next week.Also read: B.1.617 spread grows in India and overseasThat’s much needed – lives and livelihoods will have to return to some degree of normalcy – but it’s important that both the states and the federal government do what needs to be done to prevent a third wave. The wise men in charge of the country’s Covid-19 response likely know all this already, but here’s a quick reminder of five things that will help stave off the third wave (or, at the least, lessen its intensity).1.Continue with restrictions on movement and activities: While variants of the Sars-CoV-2 virus (including B.1.617, first sequenced in India, and which will likely soon be the dominant strain of the virus in most countries) were likely the main cause for the surge in cases India witnessed during the second wave, the fact that most states had completely opened up didn’t help. There were no restrictions on movement; nor were there limits on capacity (either in public transport or restaurants); many offices had reopened; and traffic in most parts of urban India was actually higher than it had been before the pandemic struck in early 2020 (understandable, because people were preferring to use private vehicles). That cannot happen again. The reopening has to be phased and gradual – especially where closed spaces such as malls, multiplexes, and offices are concerned – with limits on capacity that will likely have to continue till at least the beginning of the third quarter of this financial year (October).Also read: No proof that kids will be affected more in the next wave, say experts2.Avoid superspreader events: Another factor behind the second wave was a profusion of superspreader events: weddings, religious functions, and election rallies. Both the states and the Centre would do well to avoid these. For instance, farmers protesting three farm laws passed last September have called for a large nationwide protest on May 26. Many opposition parties have supported this. This is irresponsible – on the part of both the farmers and the parties. Similarly, there’s talk, after a meeting of education ministers on Sunday, of going ahead with the school-leaving exams for Class XII students after the end of the second wave (which means sometime in July). This, too, is reckless (especially because at least half of all Class XII students are under the age of 18, and not eligible for vaccination; and given the shortage of vaccines, there’s no guarantee that even the eligible ones have been vaccinated). Calling off the exams immediately, and grading these students on the basis of a formula that involves Class XI marks and internal assessment will end what has been a 15-month academic term for many, and kick-start the college admission process.3.Get the vaccine drive back on track: Enough has been written on this. As of May 23, around 43 million Indians have been fully vaccinated and another 108 million have received one dose. That’s just around 16% of the eligible population (those over the age of 18 years). The government needs to approve more vaccines, work with vaccine makers to enhance supplies, and together with the states, arrive at a schedule of supply (by months) accurate to few hundred doses. This will allow states to plan (and prioritise) better.4. Ensure accurate reporting of cases and deaths: There’s a simple rule to remember – if a state’s Covid-19 numbers look too good to be true, they probably are. Not recording positive cases (so as to show a low number of cases), and passing off Covid deaths as those from other diseases does not help anyone. Instead, by providing an inaccurate picture of the pandemic’s trajectory, it prevents epidemiologists and health experts from coming up with the right strategies.Also read: ICMR study found no black fungus cases after first wave5. Build stockpiles of key medicines; adopt triage: Even as they work on everything else, the federal government and the states will have to build stockpiles of key medicines (and oxygen). Unavailability of (or inaccessibility to) these were responsible for many of the deaths seen over the past month. It’s also becoming clear that states that used triage centres (Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, for example) managed to handle a high number of cases. States that didn’t use these during the second wave should use the lull in cases to create triage centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-what-you-need-to-know-today-101621897875486.html
25-05-2021||India||Gap between demand, supply of drug to treat black fungus too high, says HC||The Delhi high court on Monday said the gap between the demand and supply of Amphotericin B, a drug used to treat black fungus, is too wide to bridge, and drastic steps are needed to be taken.“It appears that the present production and projection of supply and imports may fall short of the requirement to treat black fungus in not only in GNCTD, but across India,” a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh said while hearing a petition by a man who urgently needed the medicine.On Monday, senior advocate Rahul Mehra, appearing for the Delhi government, told the court that the case load of the city has increased sharply, and that currently the city has 475 black fungus infection cases. Mehra said the demand for the injection is seven times more than the supply.The Centre, on its part, said that it was not being able to supply adequate amount of Amphotericin B to Delhi due to the production shortage. It said that the situation is similar in all the states and they have taken steps to ramp up the production of the drug.In a status report, the Centre also rejected Delhi’s demand for 100,000 vials saying the demand “cannot be said to reflect the immediate requirement”.“In any case, allocation is being made only as a temporary measure, to avoid stockpiling by some states which could be tantamount to depriving other states/UTs that are in immediate need of the same. Once the supplies increase, with higher production and more imports, states would be able to avail of higher stocks,” the Centre told the court in the status report.The Union government said it was rationing the supply with the primary concern to ensure that the most immediate and urgent demands are met first and foremost. It said that several states with different case loads have been writing to seek higher quantities of Amphotericin B to be allocated and in such cases, allotments are being made to them in accordance with the proportion of their reported case load in the entire country.Mehra, however, said the Delhi government was seeking 100,000 vials till June and not immediately. He also said that vials were separately being given to central facilties, and not to the Delhi government. He said that there were enough supplies at AIIMS but there was nothing for Ganga Ram hospital.The court noted that the “tussle” between the Centre and the Delhi government was due to the acute shortage of Amphotericin B. The discussion began during the hearing on a plea by a man, who was struggling to get Amphotericin B, and was currently battling for his life in Sir Ganga Ram hospital. The petitioner, through advocate Rohit Sharma, sought directions to the government to immediately provide the medicine to the patient.Central government’s standing counsel Kirtiman Singh said they have given licenses to five more manufacturers and asked the existing companies to ramp up production. He said that the supply situation was expected to improve with imports of the drug and increase in domestic production.When Mehra said that 50 other companies could be given the license, Kirtiman Singh remarked: “It is not some jackfruit that can be grown by anyone”.The court asked the Centre to file a further status report and posted the matter for hearing on Thursday.In his submission to the court, the Centre’s counsel said that between May 11 and 23, a total of 106,290 vials of Amphotericin B were allotted to the states, where the cases of mucormycosis have been reported. He said as on May 21, the total number of cases reported in India was 8,848.The Centre’s counsel submitted that Delhi was supplied 2,131 vials by two suppliers between May 1 and 8. On May 11, Delhi was allocated 2,150 vials of the drug while on May 19, allocation of 600 vials of additional supply have been made to Delhi government. On May 20, allocation of 430 vials of additional supply has been made and on May 22, an allocation of 670 vials was made, the Centre told the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gap-between-demand-supply-of-drug-to-treat-black-fungus-too-high-says-hc-101621897669453.html
25-05-2021||India||‘Disservice’: HC tells watchdog to probe Gautam Gambhir for procuring meds||The Delhi high court on Monday said East Delhi MP Gautam Gambhir has done a “disservice” by storing large stocks of medicines used to treat Covid-19 during severe shortages in the city, and called the act “malpractice”, despite his positive intentions.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh directed the Delhi government’s drug controller to launch an inquiry into three politicians — Gambhir and Aam Aadmi Party MLAs Praveen Kumar and Preeti Tomar — for allegedly buying and storing Covid-19 drugs and medical oxygen in bulk amid a severe shortage in the Capital. To be sure, all three did not sell the medicines or oxygen, but distributed them for free to people in their constituencies.The court declined the petitioner’s request to make Gambhir a party to the case while stating that it has not directed any action against him or the two AAP MLAs.There was no response from the two AAP MLAs and Gambhir despite repeated attempts. However, advocate Kush Sharma, representing MLA Preeti Tomar, told the court she has not been involved in relief work after the recent demise of her brother, and that she was only helping transport oxygen cylinders to those in need.On April 21, the former cricketer said people who needed Fabiflu tablets could get them for free at his East Delhi office. Fabiflu is an anti-viral drug used to manage the symptoms of Covid-19.An application was also filed in the pending petition alleging that MLAs Tomar and Kumar procured and stocked medical oxygen.“Gambhir must have done it with best of intentions. He has been a national player for our country. But when you know the medicine is in short supply and you buy over 2,000... Is that responsible behaviour? Should he not have realised that medicines are in shortage for others?” the bench remarked.Directing the drug controller to inquire how the BJP MP procured over 2,000 strips of Fabliflu, the court said, “We do not doubt his intentions, but the way he has gone about it, he has actually done a disservice, unintentionally maybe.“Intentions may be lacking, but if they cross the line, the law has to take its course. With the best of the intentions they remain malpractice and, in our society, we cannot permit this.”The court’s remarks came on a public interest litigation by one Deepak Singh, who sought that an FIR be lodged on allegations that politicians are able to procure and distribute large quantities of Covid-19 medicines, even as patients run from pillar to post to arrange them.The court noted that once the violations have been brought to the drug controller’s notice, “it cannot shut its eyes”.“There is a very clear case made out. Tell us under what provisions action is required to be taken and against whom. All this has to be done by the drug controller and not the Delhi Police, as per Supreme Court orders,” the bench said, asking them for a report within a week.On August 29 last year, the Supreme Court ruled that police cannot register an FIR under the Drugs and Cosmetic Act and violations have to be probed by the drug controller/Inspector treating it to be a cognisable offence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/disservice-hc-to-watchdog-to-probe-bjp-mp-gautam-gambhir-for-procuring-meds-101621897434891.html
25-05-2021||India||Two selling vial of black fungus drug for ₹11,300 held, 20 vials seized||The Delhi Police on Monday said arrested two men and seized 20 vials of amphotericin B, currently a hard-to-obtain antifungal drug used for treating patients who have mucormycosis, or black fungus, a disease that is on the rise across the country.The two had procured the injections from Lucknow in Uttar Pradesh and were selling each vial for ₹11,300, which is about 36 times its actual price of about ₹330, the police said.This is the first seizure of the antifungal drug in Delhi and the second case of cheating in the name of delivering urgently needed injections in the past three days.The increasing cases of black fungus (mucormycosis) and an acute shortage of amphotericin B injection -- the only effective drug against the disease according to doctors -- has led to the hoarding and black marketing of the injection, police said. A similar hoarding and black-marketing of drugs such as remdesivir, faviprarir and ivermectin, which are used to treat Covid-19 patients, was seen in the month of April and early-May, when Covid cases were at an all-time high in the capital.Experts also said the sudden rise in black fungus cases, especially in recovered Covid-19 patients, may be because of the high use of steroids and them remaining on oxygen and ventilator support for a prolonged time.Given the spike in cases, the allocation of amphotericin B to various states and Union territories (UTs) is being done by the central government, depending upon the number of cases reported by each state and UT. Union minister of chemicals and fertilizers DV Sadanand Godwa on Saturday had announced an allocation of 23,680 additional vials of amphotericin B to all states and UTs.Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said on Sunday, two students who are members of a WhatsApp group, “Covid Helper”, formed to help out patients, told the Saket police about the black marketing of amphotericin B. The duo said while they were trying to source the drug for a patient, they came across a person who was selling one vial for ₹11,300.“The students demanded 20 vials of amphotericin B and the person agreed to deliver them for ₹2.26 lakh. The delivery was scheduled near Max hospital in Saket. Our raiding team along with the students reached the meeting point and waited for the suspects, who arrived in a MGF Hector SUV. Spotting the police team, the suspects tried to flee but were caught. The car was searched and 20 vials of amphotericin B were seized,” said DCP Thakur.A case was registered and the two men, identified as Rajnish Shrivastava,46, and his driver Murtaza Khan,36, were arrested. The SUV in which they were travelling and transporting the injections was also seized.“Shrivastava disclosed that he brought the injections from Lucknow and was trying to sell them at a very high price, taking advantage of the current shortage. We are now trying to find out how and from whom Shrivastava procured the injections. The seized injections are of the newly produced lot,” said Thakur.Police said Shrivastava completed his masters in tourism from Lucknow University and later started a company, AmbuSmith Inc., that deals in medical equipment and modification of ambulances.Shrivastava is into the trading of medical equipment such as stretchers and ICU beds for hospitals. His business of modifying ambulances is being run from a workshop in Mohammadpur village near the Delhi airport. Khan, his driver, also helped him in the business.Driver arrested for cheatingIn another case, a 28-year-old driver was arrested on Saturday for allegedly cheating the family of a patient suffering from black fungus of ₹3,000 after promising the home delivery of amphotericin B. The arrested man, Prashant Kumar Sharma, had circulated his mobile number on social media as a supplier of the antifungal drug. The patient’s family contacted him and he tricked them into paying ₹3,000 into his online wallet. However, after taking the money, SHarma neither delivered the injection nor returned the money, said deputy commissioner of police (Shahdara) R Sathiyasundaram.“Two mobile phones were seized from Sharma. We are trying to ascertain the number of people he had duped by promising to deliver amphotericin B injections,” added Sathiyasundaram.Delhi Police chief SN Shrivastava, in a virtual meeting with senior officers on Saturday, had directed them to remain vigilant and take action against financial frauds, cyber crimes, and fraudsters involved in the black-marketing of essentials such as medicines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-selling-vial-of-black-fungus-drug-for-11-300-held-20-vials-seized-101621897129047.html
25-05-2021||India||‘Centre driven by obsession with exams, mustn’t let schools be superspreaders’: Manish Sisodia||Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia on Monday said the Centre should not be driven by an “obsession with examinations” while taking any decision regarding the Class 12 board exams and also cautioned the Union government against turning schools into super spreaders of Covid-19 by conducting exams.Sisodia’s comment came a day after the Union government convened a digital meeting to decide on the Class 12 board exams and subsequent entrance examinations that were postponed from March-April due to the second wave of Covid-19 across the country.At least two states, Maharashtra and Delhi, were of the opinion that exams should not be conducted amid the pandemic. Several states also raised the demand of vaccinating students and teachers before conducting exams, officials said; the Centre has asked states to submit their detailed suggestions on the matter by Tuesday.In an interview to India Today on Monday, Sisodia said, “We will give two suggestions to the Centre on Tuesday--- either to vaccinate around 1.4 core students scheduled to appear for Class 12 exams across the country; or, to cancel the exams and evaluate students on the basis of their historical references. In case a few students are not satisfied with their marks under the alternative method of evaluation, they should be given another option to appear for exams when the situation improves.”“The government should not be driven by an obsession with examinations and prioritise the interests of students. We should not turn schools into super spreaders due to our mistake (of holding exams during the pandemic),” he said.Sisodia said the central government should speak to Pfizer, which has developed a vaccine for children above the age of 12 years, and acquire that vaccine for inoculating 1.4 crore students (across all boards, all over India) who are currently studying in the 12th grade. “Or, the government may consult health experts on whether the vaccine given to those in the age group of 18+ can also be given to the students of class 12, who are mostly 17 or 17.5 years old,” he said.In another interview to NDTV, Sisodia said, “I request the Centre to consider that over 2.5 lakh Covid-19 cases are still being reported from across the country on a daily basis. Even as the cases are receding in Delhi, Covid-19 has started to make inroads into rural India. Besides, there are theories that the third wave of Covid-19 will mostly affect children. Any decision should be taken after considering all these factors... We cannot conduct exams by risking the safety and security of our children.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-driven-by-obsession-with-exams-mustn-t-let-schools-be-superspreaders-manish-sisodia-101621896857280.html
25-05-2021||India||Delhi High Court files suo motu PIL on mosquito menace in city||The Delhi high court on Monday initiated a public interest litigation (PIL) on the mosquito menace in the national capital said if not contained, vector borne diseases would add to the existing problems and complexities of the Covid-19 pandemic.The observations came even as the three civic bodies in the national capital are gearing up to conduct mega drives this week to ensure vector control -- nearly 1,700 municipal staff of the north and east corproations will be engaged in the exercises of fogging and spray of anti-larva medicines, while south corporation will launch a separate drive in its area.However, a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh noted that on account of the current pandemic, steps to control the mosquito menace have taken a back seat.“We are inclined to take suo motu cognisance of the mosquito infestation which has taken place in Delhi. On account of the current pandemic, steps to contain such infestation have taken a back seat. Every year, during and after the monsoon months, the city sees vector borne diseases such as dengue and chikungunya, and if this is not contained, with the growing Covid pandemic, the rise of such diseases would lead to and add to the problem and complexities (of Covid),” the bench said.It issued notices to the Delhi government, the three municipal corporations, New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) and the Delhi Cantonment Board (DCB) seeking to know the steps taken by them or planned to be undertaken by them to contain the mosquito infestation. AAsking the civic authorities to “pull up their socks”, the court said, “The mosquito situation is very bad... With the onset of monsoon, and looking at the pandemic, we will land in major problems.”“If people get dengue or something and they need to be hospitalised in Covid times, it will multiply the problem very badly,” it added, while directing the authorities to file their responses by Thursday.Meanwhile, the north civic body has also identified over 170 sites, which are prone to water accumulation and fit for mosquito breeding.“We have identified more than 170 places, which are prone to mosquito breeding. Intensive fumigation and anti-larva medicine spraying will be conducted at these locations and other places as well. Our domestic breeding checkers (DBCs) are already inspecting households for mosquito breeding. We will ensure that vector borne diseases do not hit the capital this year,” Jai Prakash, mayor, North Delhi Municipal Corporation, said.He said he has also written to the public works department (PWD) and other road owning agencies to keep their drains and roads clean to ensure no waterlogging takes place during monsoon.According to data provided by civic bodies, 25 cases of dengue have been reported till May 22 this year while only 18 cases were reported during the same period in 2020. Similarly, the capital has reported only four cases of chikungunya till May 22, 2021, while 10 cases of chikungunya were reported during the same period last year. Till May 22, 2021, Delhi has reported eight cases of malaria while the number was 18 during the same period last year. The total number of dengue cases in 2020 was 1,072 while it was 2,036 in 2019. There is no figure available for the current year.The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) said it is already carrying out fumigation exercises and has issued over 1,800 fines to owners of properties where mosquito breeding was found.A senior official of the SDMC said, on condition of anonymity, “The department has sent nearly five lakh awareness text messages. We have appealed to people to control mosquito breeding in and around their houses by cleaning their water coolers every week. The civic body has also issued nearly 1,800 legal notices and fines against households and commercial units for mosquito breeding on their premises.”Nirmal Jain, mayor, East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC). said the civic body will soon begin spraying of anti-larva medicine at locations where water usually accumulates. “We are making efforts to control mosquito breeding. Our staff is engaged in Covid duty as well, so, from this week, will start dedicated drives to control mosquito breeding,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-high-court-files-suo-motu-pil-on-mosquito-menace-in-city-101621896053159.html
25-05-2021||India||‘If allopathy works, why do doctors fall ill?’ Now Ramdev has this, and 24 other questions||Having been forced to withdraw his statement questioning the efficacy of allopathy medicines, Ramdev on Monday asked the Indian Medical Association (IMA) if allopathy offered permanent relief for hypertension and diabetes. In an ‘open letter’ posted on his Twitter handle, Ramdev posed 25 questions to IMA, which had objected to his video clip running down allopathy treatment for Covid-19. He asked if allopathy offered relief from hypertension and type-1 and 2 diabetes. “Does pharma industry have permanent treatment for thyroid, arthritis, colitis and asthma?” he asked.Ramdev went on to ask if allopathy had medicines for fatty liver and liver cirrhosis. “Like you found a cure for TB and chicken pox, look for treatments for liver ailments. After all, allopathy is 200 years old.” The yoga exponent also asked if allopathy had a cure for infertility, could reverse ageing, or raise hemoglobin.On Sunday, he was forced to withdraw a statement made in a viral video clip in which said that “lakhs have died from taking allopathic medicines for Covid-19.”“We had written to the health minister about it and Delhi Medical Association had asked that an FIR be filed. But,if he is withdrawing his statement, it is good,” said Dr JA Jayalal, IMA chief.Ramdev has courted controversy before with his remarks. Last year, his company launched Coronil after claiming it was a medicine for Covid, only to withdraw the claim months later. In 2012, he claimed that yoga could cure cancer and HIV-AIDS, drawing strict censure from medical councils. The next year, he claimed homosexuality was a disease and yoga could cure it, triggering outrage from both activists and doctors.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-allopathy-works-why-do-doctors-fall-ill-now-ramdev-has-this-and-24-other-questions-101621895334691.html
25-05-2021||India||Narada accused to stay under house arrest, HC questions need for immediate arrest||The four senior Trinamool Congress leaders accused in the 2016 Narada sting operation case will have to stay under house arrest till a five-judge bench of the Calcutta high court takes up their bail plea again on Wednesday.The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on May 17 arrested two West Bengal cabinet ministers, a legislator and a former mayor in connection with the 2016 Narada sting operation case. Though a special CBI court granted them interim bail, the high court had stayed it and sent them to judicial custody.“However, the larger bench questioned on Monday that if the accused persons were not arrested in the last seven years, then what was the need of arrest now, when the charge sheet of the case has been filed?” said Anindya Raut, advocate and TMC leader.On May 21 the high court put them under house arrest and constituted a larger five-judge bench to hear the bail plea. The Solicitor General of India told the court that the issue was not just of bail but whether the bail hearing of the special CBI court on May 17 was non-est in law.Meanwhile, the CBI moved the Supreme Court seeking adjournment of the hearing in the Calcutta high Court. The Solicitor General who was appearing for the CBI prayed before the five-judge bench that the hearing be adjourned as the agency had filed a special leave petition (SLP) before the apex court. The high court, however, refused the prayer and went ahead with the hearing as the Supreme Court hadn’t heard the matter yet.“The court would again hear the matter on May 26. Till then the accused would remain in house arrest,” said Manishankhar Chatterjee, Subrata Mukherjee’s advocate.The case pertains to a controversy that erupted ahead of the 2016 assembly elections after the Narada news portal uploaded a series of videos purportedly showing a number of high-profile TMC leaders receiving money in exchange for favours to a fictitious company.TMC has linked the arrests to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s loss in the recently concluded assembly polls. It has questioned why CBI didn’t arrest Suvendu Adhikari and Mukul Roy, who were also seen in the sting videos but have since switched from TMC to BJP.CBI’s plea to transfer the Narada trial out of the state is also pending before the high court. The CBI has named West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, law minister Moloy Ghatak, and lawmaker Kalyan Banerjee as respondents in its plea to transfer the trial of the case from the lower court. It claimed violent protests orchestrated by TMC against the arrests hampered its probe and intimidated lower courts.Banerjee staged a six-hour dharna at the CBI office in Kolkata after the four were arrested on Monday. Ghatak led nearly 3,000 workers and supporters to the court premises. Outside CBI’s office, hundreds of TMC supporters staged a protest and threw bricks, bottles, and shoes at central forces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/narada-accused-to-stay-under-house-arrest-hc-questions-need-for-immediate-arrest-101621894239321.html
25-05-2021||India||Modi-led committee shortlists names for CBI director’s post||A three-member committee headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi finalised the names of senior officers to become the next director of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) but Congress member Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury strongly objected to the selection process, officials aware of developments said on Monday.The meeting -- comprising Modi, Chief Justice of India NV Ramana and Congress Lok Sabha floor leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury -- started at the PM’s 7, Lok Kalyan Marg residence around 6.30pm on Monday and lasted around 90 minutes.The panel finalised the names of Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) director general (DG) Subodh Kumar Jaiswal, Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) director general Kumar Rajesh Chandra and special secretary, internal security in the Union home ministry VSK Kaumudi, said the officials quoted above.The name of Uttar Pradesh director general of police (DGP) Hitesh Chandra Awasthi was also discussed, added the officials.One of these four officers will be appointed for the coveted post and an order will be issued by the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet (ACC) shortly, said a person familiar with the process.The position of CBI chief has been lying vacant since February 3, when Rishi Kumar Shukla completed his tenure. Praveen Sinha has been working as interim chief of the premier agency since then.After the meeting, Chowdhury accused the government of adopting a “casual and superficial” approach and questioned the shortlisting process, saying it was in conflict with the mandate of the selection committee.“I have raised objections on the procedural lapses. It is the mandate of the selection committee to omit or include names of candidates for the post, then how can the DoPT (department of personnel and training) do such shortlisting,” he said.Chowdhary alleged that 109 names were first sent to him at 1 pm on Monday without any details of their work experience. At 4.30pm, a list of 10 names were sent to him and later six more names were added, he alleged.“The DoPT should not adopt a casual and superficial approach in the selection process,” Chowdhury said, adding that it was up to the committee to select or omit names of probables.A Congress leader said Chowdhury suggested the meeting be deferred. But as other members of the panel didn’t want to postpose it, Chowdhury offered to give his note of disagreement, the Congress leader added.Earlier this month, a list of over 100 Indian Police Service (IPS) officers from 1984 to 1987 batches was given to the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) after clearance by home ministry and Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT), said an officer on condition of anonymity.Jaiswal, a 1985-batch IPS officer, is a former Maharashtra director general of police. He is at present the director general of CISF.Kaumudi, a 1986-batch IPS officer of Andhra Pradesh cadre, has earlier worked in CBI as superintendent of police (SP) Delhi and Patna.He was also additional DG in the National Investigation Agency (NIA). He headed the Jammu and Kashmir Zone of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and currently heads the apex police research body Bureau of Police Research and Development. In his stint in Andhra Pradesh Police, he worked as SP of Adilabad and Guntur districts as well as joint commissioner of Hyderabad and commissioner of Visakhapatnam.Awasthi, DGP of UP Police since March last year, earlier served in CBI for almost 13 years as joint director and other senior ranks. He briefly headed the anti-corruption unit in the agency that probed the 2G spectrum allocation scam.Chandra, a 1985-batch officer of Bihar cadre, earlier served as additional DG (intelligence) in Bihar, inspector general in Special Protection Group (SPG) handling Prime Minister’s security, and director general of Bureau of Civil Aviation Security (BCAS), before being appointed as head of SSB in January 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modiled-committee-shortlists-names-for-cbi-director-s-post-101621893980001.html
25-05-2021||India||Farm union welcomes Opposition support to stir||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), a platform of farmer unions protesting three agricultural laws, on Monday “welcomed” the support offered by key Opposition parties to its planned mass demonstration on May 26, and asked them to mount the pressure on the Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre to repeal a series of legislation passed last year. The farmers’ outfit, however, reiterated that it wouldn’t involve any political party in their agitation or negotiations.“We have always said that only direct talks between the farmers and the government solve the issue. The government thinks it has freed itself from the issue. That’s why we are asking for talks,” said Gurnam Singh Charuni, a farm leader.Farmers have been protesting at five sites in large camps near Delhi’s borders: Singhu, Ghaziabad, Tikri, Dhansa and at Shahjahanpur on the Rajasthan-Haryana border, demanding the rollback of three laws passed in September last year to lift restrictions on trade in farm produce.On May 21, the SKM wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, asking the Union government to resume dialogue to end the agitation, but remained steadfast on their demand to scrap the legislation.Farm leaders said they wanted to use the occasion to “keep things on the boil”. The top leadership of the agitation felt that the government could not be allowed to simply sit tight even as the farmers protested. “We wrote to the prime minister because we have to keep things on the boil. The government cannot take it easy,” said Hannan Mollah, a left politician who is a key member of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha.The SKM’s statement comes a day after leaders of 12 opposition parties extended their support to the farmers’ call for a nationwide protest on May 26 to mark months of the farmers’ protest against the Centre’s three new farm laws, despite fears that large gatherings of farmers camped on the capital’s borders and elsewhere could turn into a superspreader event amid a raging second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.The apparent trigger for the farmers’ letter to the prime minister, asking him to urgently restart talks, is that the farmers’ protests would complete six months on May 26.So far, 11 rounds of talks between 40 farm leaders and the government have failed to resolve the crisis. Both the government and farmers called off the series of discussions on January 22, citing lack of progress. The unions have rejected the government’s offer to freeze the laws for 18 months.The agriculture ministry is awaiting instructions from the “highest level” – which in bureaucratic parlance usually means the prime minister’s office -- on how to respond to the demand to resume negotiations.“The letter was addressed to the prime minister. So, a decision on what next (is to be done) will depend on instructions from the highest levels,” an agriculture ministry official said.Congress secretary Pranav Jha supported the farmers’ protest plans. “In this government, nothing can move without Modi’s consent. Only if he wants, the farm laws can be repealed. But the government’s strategy so far had been to tire out the farmers and waiting to see that they go away.”“It is a political movement now. It’s not simply a farmers’ movement,” said KS Mani a farm economist formerly with the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University.A section of the Opposition, however, thinks that the farmers have stretched their agitation unnecessarily.A senior Opposition leader from Punjab, requesting anonymity, said, “In every agitation, it is more important to know when to stop than when to begin the agitation.”“The farm groups should have declared victory after the Supreme Court put the laws in abeyance and gone home. But they decided to stay put and after what happened on January 26, they have also lost support of the middle-class,” the leader added.Most of the protesters are farmers from Punjab and Haryana, the two food bowl states. They are demanding the repeal of three laws to liberalise farm trade passed by Parliament in September that farmers say will leave small farmers at the mercy of large corporate farms.A key concern is that the laws, by ushering in free markets, would pave the way for abolition of government-run markets that offer minimum support prices, an assured floor price, for staples.The Modi government has, however, billed the laws as a necessary step to modernize India’s antiquated farming sector that is hardly productive. The gross domestic product (GDP) per worker in agriculture is one-third of the economy-wide GDP per worker. This means productivity in agriculture is too low to lift the overall economy.Prime Minister Modi has sought to allay concerns that the system of support prices or MSP for farmers would be jeopardised in any way. “The system of MSP was there, is there and will continue to be there,” he had said in Parliament in February.To be sure, the new laws don’t offer a guarantee that the government will continue to offer support prices for staples, a system introduced in the 1960s to help India offer profitable prices to farmers to overcome food crises.The laws at the heart of the protests are The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance, Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.The government has said the laws would spur investments and give farmers freedom to sell their produce directly to large buyers in a sector that accounts for nearly 15% of India’s $2.9 trillion economy and employs half its workforce.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-union-welcomes-opposition-support-to-stir-101621893397191.html
25-05-2021||India||Covid fears as thousands of farmers gather in Hisar||The Hisar administration on Monday agreed to withdraw cases registered against over 350 farmers after a clash escalated between them and the police on May 16 during Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s visit to inaugurate a Covid hospital.Thousands of farmers, including women and youths, on Monday started assembling at four toll plazas on outskirts of Hisar to start a protest march in front of the divisional commissioner’s office. From there, the farmers went to Krantiman Park where a farmer, identified as Ram Chander Kharab of Uglana village, died of heart attack.As many as 4,000 rapid action force personnel and Haryana armed police staff of Bhiwani, Hisar, Sirsa, Jind, and Fatehabad were deployed to restrict entry of protesters inside the city.Anti-riot vehicles and a wall were erected to stop movement of farmers but the protest ended peacefully. No untoward incident was reported in district.The farmers’ march was stopped at Fawara Chowk, nearly 1km from the commissioner’s office and a 26-member farmer delegation was invited by the district administration to hold talks.Farm leaders including BKU spokesman Rakesh Tikait, Gurnam Singh Charuni, Balbir Singh Rajewala, Joginder Singh Ugrahan, Vikas Sisar and others moved ahead for discussion with the district officials.To avoid any mishap, Tikait led the protest and his SUV was at forefront during the protest march.After attending the meeting with district administration, Tikait said the administration has agreed to revoke cases registered against peasants in connection with the May 16 incident and will take legal course of action to withdraw the cases.“It was decided to withdraw cases within a month’s time. If the Hisar administration tries to betray us again, we will start a ‘pucca morcha’ here,” he said.“The administration has accepted our demand to give government job to the kin of Ram Chander, who died of heart attack during the march. We will observe black day on May 26 on completion of six months of the farm agitation. The government should accept our demands and end this deadlock,” he added.Tikait said 12 opposition parties supported them in the media but none of them sat in the tents during the agitation.Hisar SDM Jagdeep Singh said the administration and farmers have agreed to withdraw the cases registered against farmers within a month.“We have agreed to provide job to the deceased farmer’s family member on DC rate,” the SDM added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-fears-as-thousands-of-farmers-gather-in-hisar-101621893268301.html
25-05-2021||India||Covid a priority, nobody dying over lack of marriage certificates: Centre on recognition of same-sex marriages||The Centre on Monday opposed a clutch of petitions demanding recognition of same-sex marriages, telling the Delhi high court that Covid-related matters should be prioritised as nobody was dying due to lack of marriage certificates.Appearing for the central government, solicitor general Tushar Mehta urged a bench of justices Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and Amit Bansal to defer the hearing of the cases as they didn’t qualify as “extremely urgent” matters.“Law officers are struggling with Covid issues. As a government, our focus in terms of urgency is on urgent, imminent issues,” Mehta said.But senior advocate Saurabh Kirpal, representing one of the petitioners, said the matter should be decided expeditiously.Senior advocate Maneka Guruswamy, appearing for another petitioner, said there are 70 million Lesbian Gay Bisexual Transgender (LGBT) people in the country and the community was struggling to get admissions in hospitals and was being left out everywhere.“We cannot access our partners, cannot look after sick parents,” she said, emphasising the urgency of the matter.To this, Mehta replied: “You don’t need marriage certificate for hospitals, nobody is dying because they don’t have marriage certificate.”He also said that matters should not be listed before the bench of justices Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and Amit Bansal as according to the roster, they are currently hearing cases related to the Armed Forces, Land Acquisition etc and not Public Interest Litigation (PIL).The bench then adjourned the matter to July 6, asking the Centre to seek clarification on the roster from the chief justice of the high court.The court was hearing a batch of three petitions for legalisation of same-sex marriages.The first was filed by Abhijit Iyer Mitra, Gopi Shankar, Giti Thadani and G Oorvasi and contended that the Hindu Marriage Act (HMA) did not distinguish between heterosexual and homosexual marriages if one were to go by how it was worded. The 1955 act clearly stated that marriages could be solemnised between “any two Hindus,” the petition argued.The second petition was filed by two mental health professionals, Kavita Arora, 47, and Ankita Khanna, 36, seeking legal recognition of their marriage under two different civil laws, the Special Marriage Act (SMA) and the Foreign Marriage Act (FMA),The third plea was filed by two men , Vaibhav Jain, an Indian citizen, and Parag Vijay Mehta, an overseas citizen of India , who got married in the United States, where same-sex marriage is legal, in 2017. They also sought the same relief as Arora and Khanna, stating that an Indian consulate had refused to register their union this year under the FMA.While hearing the matters in October last year, a bench headed by justice Endlaw observed that “we may shed our inhibition” when it came to same-sex marriages. It had said that laws are gender-neutral and the Centre may try to interpret the law in favour of the citizens in the country.But in February, the Centre opposed the pleas, saying a marriage in India could be recognised only if it was between a “biological man” and a “biological woman” capable of producing children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-a-priority-nobody-dying-over-lack-of-marriage-certificates-centre-on-recognition-of-same-sex-marriages-101621892645789.html
25-05-2021||India||No proof that kids will be affected more in the next wave, say experts||There is no evidence yet to assume that the next wave of infections will hit children harder, the government’s top experts said on Monday, citing data that suggests the impact of Covid-19 on different age groups was similar in the second wave of cases to what it was in the first, last year.The clarifications come at a time when several officials, and some experts, have said that children may be at higher risk in the future. Most experts, however, say that this could be because children are not yet eligible for vaccines and getting doses to them could take longer.“If we look at the data, and compare both the Covid-19 waves, children are usually protected as the numbers are fewer. Even if they get infection, the disease is usually mild. The virus is the same; it has not changed, and there is no indication that in the third Covid-19 children will be more impacted,” said Dr Randeep Guleria, director, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS).“Another hypothesis is that the virus enters the body with the ace receptor, and in children you find less OF such receptors as compared to adults. This is one hypothesis why the disease is less in children. So far, there is no data to show children are getting more affected, so in future too we cannot say for sure if children will be impacted more. There could also be another theory that says since kids aren’t exposed much yet, in the next wave there’s a possibility that proportionally they may get more affected by virtue of greater exposure,” he added.Guleria also said that in AIIMS, a routine death audit was being done in people who succumbed to Covid-19 and comparing the data from the past one-and-a-half months to the previous Covid-19 wave showed age-group and comorbidity parameters were almost similar. Older people, and people with more than one comorbidities, were most affected.“We try to present the bigger picture in front of people. In the past it has been clarified that in both the waves, the level of infection in different age groups has remained the same. Overall, the infection pattern in both the waves is the same. There is not much difference. Also, mortality is higher in people above 60 years, and those suffering from comorbidities, which is why in our vaccination programme this category is the priority age group,” said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, health ministry.Dr Guleria also warned that with rise in Covid-19 recovery numbers, doctors and members of the public will have to be watchful of post-Covid-19 issues such as breathing difficulty, fatigue, chest tightness, cough, and other conditions that recovered people tend to experience for a long time.“There are various symptoms that remain even after one has recovered from Covid-19. Now we even roughly know at what interval roughly people remain affected. For example, if your symptoms stay for 4 to 12 weeks, then we call it ongoing symptomatic Covid-19 or post acute Covid-19 syndrome; and if the symptoms stay for more than 12 weeks than it is termed as post Covid-19 syndrome or long Covid-19. There are many Covid-19 patients who may show symptoms even for 12 weeks, and require treatment,” said Dr Guleria.As a solution, Dr Guleria said that there was a need for setting up multi disciplinary post covid clinics where these people can be rehabilitated, and also to encourage people to perform yoga etc. to improve lung capacity and overall well-being.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-proof-that-kids-will-be-affected-more-in-the-next-wave-say-experts-101621892120197.html
25-05-2021||India||Roche’s antibody cocktail for treating Covid-19 out in Indian market||Roche India’s antibody cocktail is now available in market to treat Coronavirus disease patients, the Pharma giant announced on Monday, adding that the cost per patient dose will be ₹59,750.Monoclonal antibodies are laboratory-made proteins that mimic the immune system’s ability to fight off harmful pathogens such as viruses.The first batch of antibody cocktail, Casirivimab and Imdevimab, is now available in India while a second batch will be made available by mid-June.Casirivimab and imdevimab are monoclonal antibodies that are specifically directed against the spike protein of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, and are designed to block the virus’ attachment and entry into human cells.Also Read | India’s Covid-19 death toll tops 300,000, new cases fall to 222,315“Roche is deeply committed to support the ongoing efforts to combat the Covid-19 pandemic, mitigate the deadly second wave and save lives. We are optimistic that the availability of Antibody Cocktail (Casirivimab and Imdevimab) in India can help in minimising hospitalisation, ease the burden on healthcare systems and play a key role in treatment of high risk patients before their condition worsens,” said V Simpson Emmanuel, managing director and CEO, Roche Pharma India.Each of the 100,000 packs to be available in India offers treatment for two patients.Cipla will distribute the product across the country. According to the company statement, the drug will be available through leading hospitals and Covid-19 treatment centres.The antibody cocktail revived drugs controller general of India’s approval under emergency use on May 5.It has also received emergency use authorisation in the US and several EU countries.“We are guided by our strong sense of responsibility to address unmet patient need and look forward to leveraging our solid marketing and distribution strengths in India to provide broader, equitable access to this innovative treatment option in the country,” said Umang Vohra, MD & Global CEO, Cipla.It is to be administered for the treatment of mild to moderate Covid-19 in adults and paediatric patients (12 years of age or older, weighing at least 40 kg) who are confirmed to be infected with SARS-COV2 and who are at high risk* of developing severe disease, and do not require oxygen.It has been shown to help these high-risk patients before their condition worsens, reducing the risk of hospitalisation and fatality by 70% and shortening the duration of symptoms by four days.. As one vial has enough material to treat two patients, if opened for the first patients’ dose, it can be used for the second patients’ dose within 48 hours when stored at 2°C to 8°C. The product can be administer either intravenously or subcutaneously in a healthcare setting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/roches-antibody-cocktail-for-treating-covid-19-out-in-indian-market-101621892134071.html
25-05-2021||India||ICMR study found no black fungus cases after first wave||A study by the Indian Council of Medical Research, released on Monday, said that there were no instances of mucormycosis (black fungus disease), in 10 hospitals where researchers tracked secondary bacterial and fungal infections in Covid-19 patients during the first wave of the pandemic.The study was conducted between June and August last year, on 17,534 patients in 10 hospitals (Two in Delhi, two in Mumbai, one each in Vellore, Jodhpur, Bhopal, Pondicherry, Chennai, and Kolkata) and its findings are interesting at a time India is combating an unprecedented spate of black fungus cases. The Union government said last week that there were 5,000 cases of the disease, which has a fatality of at least 50%, around the country.According to the study, secondary bacterial and fungal infections affected around 3.6% (ranging from 1.7% to 28% between hospitals) of patients hospitalised with Covid-19 . And the mortality in patients with these secondary infections was 56.7% as against 10.6% among other hospitalised patients. The mortality in those with secondary infections was as high as 78.9% in one of the hospitals, the data showed.“What we found was that most of these secondary infections, 78% of them, were acquired at the hospital; the indication for infections started two days after hospitalisation and most of the samples had gram negative bacteria showing that they were hospital-based infection. This could be because infection control policies at the hospitals went for a toss amid the pandemic. Hand hygiene wasn’t as good because of double gloving and use of PPE kits in the hot weather also added to that,” said Dr Kamini Walia, corresponding author of the paper and a scientist with the epidemiology and communicable diseases department at ICMR.She added, “The most common pathogens causing the infection were klebsiella pneumoniae and acinetobacter baumannii; usually E coli is the most common pathogen found as per previous ICMR reports. Both the infections are very difficult to treat because they have acquired lot of resistant genes over time. The treatment will further become difficult post-Covid. Hospitals must invest in infection control and rationalise antimicrobial prescriptions.”The study cautions about the increase in antimicrobial resistance due to excessive use of stronger medicines. Around 74.4% of the total antimicrobials prescribed in the hospitals were from the Watch and Reserve category of the World Health Organization (WHO).WHO classifies all antibiotics in three categories – Access drugs that can treat commonly encountered pathogens and have lower resistance potential, Watch drugs that have higher resistance potential and are critical for treatment, and Reserve drugs that need to be saved as last resort for drug-resistant microbes and given only once an infection is confirmed.“Around 47% of the infections were found to be multi-drug resistant; but more than 74% of the antimicrobials prescribed were from the Watch and Reserve category. And the 10 hospitals from where we have collected data are in the ICMR network; they have been trained in infection control and antimicrobial stewardship. We can only imagine what is happening in other hospitals,” said Dr Walia.Even in the case of mucormycosis, the overuse (and misuse) of steroids is blamed by many experts.“[This is] a double whammy; Covid-19, along with the secondary infections, increases mortality significantly... Mucormycosis cases reported after the second wave are largely [related] with the overuse of steroids. At the peak [of the second wave], steroids had vanished from the market. This has never happened before; It is one of the most common medicines available,” said Dr Chand Wattal, head of the department of microbiology at Sir Ganga Ram hospital, one of the 10 hospitals that participated in the study.Sampling was low, though, he added.Only 7,163 samples were sent for microbial culture , with multiple samples belonging to the same patients. The low sampling was because of the practical problems; not many healthcare workers wanted to collect them during the first wave when not much was known about the disease.“The sample size decreased considerably because people were scared to take the samples; especially those that generate aerosols such as lavage (a procedure where lower respiratory tract is flushed with fluid which is collected for diagnosis). The sampling has increased now that people are aware of how to protect themselves,” said Dr Wattal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-study-found-no-black-fungus-cases-after-first-wave-101621890337042.html
25-05-2021||India||Provide ration, meals to migrants, Supreme Court tells states||The Supreme Court on Monday told states that stranded migrants across the country must be given free dry ration and cooked food through community kitchens, in directions that sought to reduce the problems faced by unorganised sector workers rendered jobless during Covid lockdowns.The directives were, in effect, an extension to all states of the instructions given by the top court to the National Capital Region states of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana for migrants stranded in and around NCR.States will be free to either utilise the foodgrain received under the Atmanirbhar Bharat scheme, or provide them under any state-specific scheme. “We direct that migrant workers wherever stranded throughout the country should be provided the dry ration under the Atmanirbhar Scheme or any other scheme found suitable by the States/Centre,” the bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and MR Shah said.On providing cooked food, the bench directed the states and Union territories to open sufficient community kitchens for migrant workers. “There shall be wide publicity with respect to the various schemes including the places of community kitchens so that such needy persons may in fact take benefits,” the bench said.The orders came in a suo moto proceeding initiated by the top court in the light of problems faced by migrants across the country,The Court also identified the slow registration of workers in the unorganised sector as a major implementation flaw in schemes for their benefit. It pointed out that the Union labour ministry was working for well over a year on a National Database for Unorganised Workers (NDUW), which would include migrant and construction workers. “We are of the view that for accessing of any benefit percolating from any scheme framed by the Centre or the states for the benefit of unorganised workers or migrant workers, registration of workers is essential, which registration shall facilitate the unorganized workers to assess the scheme and reap the benefit,” the bench observed.The work on the database started after the Supreme Court in 2018 directed the labour ministry to set up a portal for registration of unorganised workers, and make it available to states. The Code of Social Security Act, 2020, by which the Unorganised Workers Social Security Act, 2008, stood repealed, also envisaged the registration of unorganised workers, gig workers, and platform workers.The court asked solicitor general Tushar Mehta to file an affidavit within two weeks, informing them about the progress of NDUW and the Social Security Code. The judges also urged states to collaborate with the Centre on completing the NDUW at the earliest.Most states told the court that workers were not coming forward to register, and some contractors refused to cooperate with government queries. “These are illiterate and downtrodden people. How will they cope up with online registration? Our main concern is that benefits should reach the needy persons. If they (migrant workers) are not coming, the Government must reach them and identify them,” the bench responded.The bench also underlined the need for a suitable mechanism to monitor and supervise whether the benefits of the welfare schemes reach people. “On paper, the Government says it has spent crores of rupees, but they must also reach the needy,” the bench said.In May last, the top court took up a suo moto petition following media reports showing the mass exodus of migrant labourers from cities on foot and cycles, travelling for long distances without food, water or transport. The Court directed all states and UTs to arrange transport for stranded migrants by rail and road. Further, Court directed food and water to be supplied to them. In addition, the states which received migrants were to maintain data of workers who returned, their skill, and details of previous employment at the block, district and village level.Some civil rights activists, represented by advocate Prashant Bhushan, informed the court that the NCR states were yet to provide dry ration under the Atmanirbhar scheme, as directed by the court on May 13, and that very few community kitchens were functioning.Citing an example of Delhi, where construction workers were provided a cash incentive of ₹5000, the applicants demanded similar benefits to be extended to migrant workers, rickshaw pullers, and street vendors. But the bench refused, saying, “Cash transfer is a matter of policy and scheme framed by each State/Union Territory and no direction for cash transfer can be issued by this Court to any category of person unless they are covered by any scheme formulated by the State/Union territory.”The Court noted that several states were providing cash benefits ranging from ₹1,000 to ₹6,000, and sought details of such schemes from all states and UTs by the next date expected to be on June 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/provide-ration-meals-to-migrants-supreme-court-tells-states-101621889557127.html
25-05-2021||India||Tamil Nadu teacher suspended over sexual harassment charges||A teacher of a prominent city school on Monday was suspended pending an inquiry after multiple allegations of sexual harassment by past as well as present students surfaced against him on social media.The Padma Seshadri Bala Bhavan (PSBB) Senior Secondary School, meanwhile, claimed that no complaints were made against the teacher, who taught commerce, in the past.A special police team led by Crimes against Women and Children (CWC) deputy commissioner of police H Jayalakshmi visited the school to probe the case. School education minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi told reporters that he has asked officials of the concerned education department to look into the allegations.“The chief education officer has enquired with the school management. The school has informed us that they will set up a committee to look into the issue,” Poyyamozhi said.The incident came to light after an alumna shared an instance of sexual harassment against the teacher on Instagram on Sunday. Likewise, several students came forward and accused the teacher of making inappropriate jokes; one of them claimed that he had even invited her for a movie. Another student alleged that the school had failed to act against the accused despite several complaints.The issue escalated after Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) MPs Kanimozhi and Dayanidhi Maran called for strict action. While Kanimozhi called for action against the teacher and school authorities who failed to act despite complaints, Maran wrote to Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal to direct the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) to probe the lapses in addressing the issue.Following the allegations on Instagram, over 1,000 alumni of the school wrote to the management, demanding the immediate suspension of the teacher pending investigation.The alumni alleged that despite several complaints against the accused, who has been teaching for more than 20 years in the school, authorities did not initiate any action besides a verbal warning.The alumni noted that the accused routinely harassed girl students, physically touched them with sexual intent and warned of retaliation if they complained.The alumni also said that the teacher had access to contact numbers of all students since classes had moved online in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.In their petition to school authorities, the alumni demanded that the teacher be excluded from all academic activity, including grading students in their exams or evaluating them till the investigation into the case is completed.“Ensure that the identity of minors and school children are protected, and no adverse, penal, or retaliatory action is taken against them in any regard,” the petition added.“It pains us that despite the fact that complaints and concerns about (the accused, name withheld) has been escalated in the past, it has not been dealt with the rigorous expectations of an institution like PSBB and we hope that the same will be addressed effectively now.”A section of students belonging to the 2007 batch, however, came in support of the teacher, and demanded a fair probe into the incident.In a statement later in the day, the school refuted charges that complaints against the accused were raised in the past.“We would like to assure you that our school has zero tolerance towards any behaviour that adversely affects the physical, emotional and psychological well being of our students,” the statement signed by the principal and dean of the school said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-teacher-suspended-over-sexual-harassment-charges-101621889129089.html
25-05-2021||India||Why defence ministry chaired the GoM on Class 12 exams||Defence minister Rajnath Singh was handpicked by Prime Minister Narendra Modi last week to head the group of ministers (GoM) looking into the feasibility of conducting Class 12 examinations because of his stature as the government’s senior-most minister and cross-party acceptance, HT has learnt after speaking to two senior government officials.The GoM also comprises information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar and women and child development minister Smriti Irani, both former education ministers. Singh chaired a meeting on Sunday attended by education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’, Smriti Irani, Prakash Javadekar. Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) officials, education ministers of all states, education secretaries, and chairpersons of the state examination boards.“It is an issue in which the Prime Minister himself is involved,’’ said Nishank. “It involves so many students in the country and so the PM asked Rajnathji also to sit, shows just how important this matter is for us,” he added. A decision on the issue is expected by June 1.One of the officials quoted above said PM Modi chose Singh after consultations because he wanted not only his senior-most minister but also someone who had experience in this area.Singh first became education minister in 1991 when the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) formed its first government in Uttar Pradesh. Singh held the portfolio for two years and in 1992, brought in the anti-copying act that made cheating a non-bailable offence and allowed police to come into examination halls to conduct raids.“The biggest concern for the government was that it should be attended by all states,’’ said a second official. "Rajnath Singh has great acceptance across party lines and that’s another reason why he was chosen. In seniority, he is the topmost minister.’’Both the officials quoted above said choosing Singh had paid off as all Opposition party ministers attended the event and the meeting reached a broad consensus of holding the board exams, albeit truncated. Even Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia, who had objections, listed them cordially.Nishank’s office said fielding Singh didn’t undermine the education minister, who is yet to fully recover from Covid. “On this issue of exams, the PM previously held a meeting so there is no question of us chairing when Rajnathji is there,’’ said an official from Nishank’s office.The official pointed out that Singh and Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren, who holds the state education portfolio, both praised Nishank’s initiative to conduct this process even though he was ill.At Sunday’s meeting, Singh’s intervention was limited to telling all attendees to speak briefly so that they wouldn’t go over time. In his concluding remarks, he told all states to give their opinion in writing, which is expected to be collated in a day or two, before the government arrives at its final decision.Singh was also the behind-the-scenes negotiator for the government during the farmer protests earlier this year. While commerce minister Piyush Goyal and agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar were officially speaking to the farmers, Singh was meeting with key farmer leaders at his residence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-defence-ministry-chaired-the-gom-on-class-12-exams-101621888773001.html
25-05-2021||India||K’taka needs to invest more towards healthcare: State deputy CM||Karnataka is one of the most Covid-19 impacted regions in the country has seen nearly 26000 people succumb to the virus in the second wave. Though the state had initially fared well in containing the spread in the first half of 2020, the pandemic got the better of Karnataka, which has been, among other things, attributed to the indecisiveness of the BS Yediyurappa government. Dr CN Ashwath Narayan, deputy chief minister and chairperson of Karnataka’s Covid-19 task force in a interview with Sharan Poovanna , speaks about the past mistakes, learnings and the way forward in dealing with the pandemic and much more. Edited excerpts. How has Covid management been in Karnataka? Covid management has to be done at the primary level, but the focus goes on tertiary. In infectious diseases, management goes on basic levels, and we have to ensure it does not escalate or pressure starts to build on oxygen supply, medicine and other things. When this happens, basic level emphasis becomes tough. Unless we understand this, it would be difficult to work. Was this learning missing in the first wave? In the first wave, people only spoke if they were positive or negative. Once someone is infected, there is an incubation period and then there is just dead virus in the body. But if the immune process does not respond, then it continues to escalate and becomes a problem. We should understand this and work. But there is a lag in people reporting after getting the symptoms. The sixth-eighth day is very important and if the date of symptoms is recorded, it (disease) can be managed efficiently. What are the challenges in Covid-19 management during the second wave? There should be more emphasis on the basic levels, detection, creating awareness among people, etc. The best way is to presume that any symptom could be Covid-19 and they should immediately get a test done. That urgency should be from both the government and people. If this kind of connection is there, 90% of our job is done. This makes it easier to triage and then take appropriate action, whether to keep them in a Covid care centre (CCC) or in home isolation. In rural areas, it is better to keep people in CCC to control the spread and monitor them. To make it gold standard, inflammatory tests should be done. Were logistics like medication, ramping up beds and other requirements a big challenge? These medications do not cost much. All put together it will not cost more than ₹200-250 per person. Even if you give a pulse meter, it won’t be more than ₹700. The entire rush for hospital beds, oxygen and other things can be avoided if handled properly initially. That situation should not be allowed to arise. Majority of it has been handled. Compared to other countries, we are far superior in our care. But these situations shouldn’t come up. We saw the healthcare system in Bengaluru almost collapse. The demand was more. Our triaging system was not strong. Those people who do not require hospital, were also admitted. The numbers also increased drastically and there was no time to correct themselves. In the first wave, if there was a mistake, there was about a week to rectify it. This time there was less than one hour as the virus was spreading very fast. The incubation period in the first wave was 15 days and now it is 2-3 days. But damage could have been less. We predicted that the second wave will be more, but disease impact will be less. But both were more this time. Normally, it was believed that there would be less virility. When a virus mutates, incubation comes down and so does virility. But surprisingly, virility did not come down. By this estimate, the third wave should be more dangerous. Ideally, it shouldn’t be. But the second wave itself behaved so differently and it is difficult for us to tell. How are we preparing for the third wave and what are the challenges? We can’t predict this; but will need to scale up our health infrastructure. We are not at any loss if we prepare more. If you look at our health infrastructure, it was not that great. It needs to be scaled up even for our day-to-day needs. It should definitely be improved, and we need to spend a lot. There should be more towards healthcare investments. If we do not do it now, it will be a crime. Was there a clear lack of vision and decision making? Preparations had been done. Hospital beds have been scaled up to 25,000 oxygenated beds when compared to earlier. 3000 ventilators were also added but that was not enough. Demand for hospitalisation surged and duration of stay was very long. Some people refused to leave the hospital even after being cured. Several private players also failed. We needed proper manpower, systems but this did not happen. Had the government not predicted the scale of the second wave? No one knew the scale of the pandemic and how serious it would be. There was a belief that the second wave too would go the same way as the first one. There was no time to repair and set the process right. The technical advisory committee had warned the state government in November. Why was no action taken? The projections, mathematical models and other predictions were there. But many people didn’t take it seriously. They knew it would come, there was preparation and a system, but no one predicted the scale. Has the Centre’s decision to take control over vaccine, oxygen and medicine supply become a problem? Without the Centre’s intervention and managing the system, it would have been difficult. How can we negotiate since there is nothing that we manufacture? So, the support system was good, allocation, medicine procurement, if not for them who would ask pharma companies for Remdesivir. There was exemptions for raw materials. They (Centre) facilitated and worked hard to help ramp up services. Karnataka has floated a global tender. Can the likes of Pfizer and others also participate? Anyone can participate. There are some approvals and coordination that are required and there are certain criteria and conditions, but it can be done. We needed 65 million vaccines and we have placed orders for 30 million. But they (SII and Bharat Biotech) were taking time to supply and by this time there was a huge demand. We are trying hard to the best of our capability. We have done this for Remdesivir as well. You had said that everyone in the state can be vaccinated by the end of this year. Is this a realistic target? This is definitely possible. By August, we should have completed giving at least the single dose to 25-30 million people. We can reach over 20 million by August and by December we can provide everyone at least the single dose. Why was healthcare taken away from the BBMP? There was no expertise, infrastructure, manpower and capability. How much can BBMP spend? At the government level it is good and in BBMP, that priority is missing. We can replicate what we did at Zilla Panchayat level and make it accountable to BBMP. Bengaluru is the bread earner for the entire state, if there is a problem here then from where will the revenue generate for the state? The chief minister said that there will be no lockdown, but he did go back on his words. When the numbers increased, we couldn’t have managed without a lockdown. When numbers started to surge, people as well the opposition started demanding for a lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ktaka-needs-to-invest-more-towards-healthcare-state-deputy-cm-101621888387861.html
25-05-2021||India||K’taka districts put on alert for possible Oxygen shortage||Bengaluru: An emergency notice on a possible drop in oxygen supply on May 25 and 26 was issued to all districts and Bengaluru city administration on Monday after two liquid oxygen production plants in Bellary district stopped functioning due to technical problems. According to the Karnataka government, the production trouble at the two plants -- Air Water India and Praxair -- could possibly result in a shortfall of 220 metric tonnes of oxygen per day. The notice directed all districts to use the available lifesaving gas judiciously as a 20% shortfall in supply is expected on both the dates.“There is a crisis in oxygen availability as 220 tonnes production has reduced in Bellary due to production problems. It is likely to stabilise by Wednesday morning. Therefore, for the next 2 days, there is likely to be a reduction of 20% supply per day to all districts. Manage your oxygen usage carefully. Inform all hospitals and refillers” the notice read. The government, however, claimed that they have enough gas to mitigate the situation. “We have the issue due to tripping of plants. But we have done our best to minimise the impact, and everyone is in complete coordination to handle the situation. There is no need to panic. We have adequate buffer quantum to meet the situation,” Munish Moudgil, state nodal officer for oxygen supply, said. While the Centre’s daily oxygen allocation for Karnataka is 1,051 metric tonnes, the supply on ground is only around 885 metric tonnes, Moudgil added. “We are getting special supplies. These are not regular allotments but sporadic arrivals. Today (Monday), about 150 metric tonnes (were) brought by Linde. 109 metric tonnes came yesterday (Sunday) and were sent by Reliance Foundation. Like this, randomly, special allotments come and we are able to manage. Another 115 metric tonnes are coming tomorrow (Tuesday) from the government of India,” he said. “We are like a family who does not have a stable firm income beyond 765 metric tonnes and get sporadic help from different quarters daily to reach 850 metric tonnes,” Moudgil explained. As per data released by the state government, the oxygen consumption in the state stood at 822 metric tonnes on May 21 and 885 metric tonnes on May 22. Bengaluru alone consumed 308 metric tonnes and 340 metric tonnes of oxygen on these two days. “We had not done detailed accounting of oxygen consumption in BBMP as it is a mammoth exercise. All extra coming has been going to them. Now we did (an audit) along with BBMP and found a firmer figure (on oxygen consumption). And in BBMP, the consumption hasn’t reduced much despite the reduction in caseload from about 2.4 lakh to about 1.2 lakh. This is because ICU and ICU + ventilator beds have not come down in Bengaluru and that is the main reason for not much reduction in oxygen consumption in BBMP,” Moudgil said. Among other high oxygen-consuming districts, Mysuru consumed 54.8 metric tonnes and 55.9 metric tonnes on May 21 and May 22, respectively, followed by Ballari, which consumed 40.15 metric tonnes and 41.26 metric tonnes, and Dharwad that consumed 31.96 metric tonnes and 57.08 metric tonnes. Moudgil added that the government of India had increased the oxygen allotment to Karnataka to 1,200 metric tonnes and it is likely to become effective in a day or two (after May 25). “However, a good part of it was allotted from Maharashtra. Lifting that isn’t going to be easy,” he added. On May 7, the Supreme Court had turned down the Centre’s plea to stay the Karnataka high court order directing it to immediately increase the supply of medical oxygen to the state from 962 metric tonnes per day to 1,200 metric tonnes per day in view of the spike in the number of active Covid-19 cases. On May 5, while hearing a public interest litigation, the high court had noted that the projected requirement of oxygen in Karnataka was 1,471 metric tonnes per day as of April 30, whereas the Centre had agreed to enhance it from 862 metric tonnes to only 962 MT per day. It also recorded a statement of Karnataka’s additional chief secretary that the requirement of oxygen in the state was likely to go up to 1,792 metric tonnes by May 5.The high court then directed the Karnataka government to submit a representation to the Union government while ordering that till this representation was considered, the Centre will supply 1,200 metric tonnes of oxygen per day to the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ktaka-districts-put-on-alert-for-possible-oxygen-shortage-101621888267877.html
25-05-2021||India||Ministerial vacancies in focus as govt nears 2 years of term||As the Bharatiya Janata Party-led NDA government completes the second year of its second consecutive term in office on May 30, the focus has again shifted to vacancies that have arisen in the union council of ministers will be filled any time soon -- especially in the context of reports that leaders who joined the party in the past year-and-half, or gave up claims to positions in their state, would be accommodated at the Centre.But that isn’t the only second anniversary coming up. May 25 will mark two years of the position of the deputy speaker of the Lok Sabha lying vacant -- ever since the AIADMK’s M Thambidurai demitted office on May 25, 2019.People aware of the thinking in party and government circles said there is no indication of when the much-awaited cabinet expansion or reshuffle will take place, even though there was considerable speculation that a rejig in the cabinet was imminent after the first wave of the pandemic.As on date, four ministers have additional charge of ministries after the incumbent passed on, suffered an ailment or injury, or broke away from the NDA. There’s union minister for information and broadcasting, Prakash Javadekar who in addition to environment and forests also has the charge of heavy industries since November 2019 when the Shiv Sena pulled out of the NDA . The Shiv Sena’s Arvind Sawant earlier held that portfolio.Union Minister for Railways Piyush Goyal was given additional charge of the consumer affairs ministry in October after the passing of LJP leader Ram Vilas Paswan. With Paswan’s passing the union cabinet does not have a single non-BJP minister. Only Ramdas Athawale of the RPI, an NDA ally is a minister of state in the council of ministers.Similarly, Narendra Singh Tomar, who was already handling three ministries, agriculture, rural development and panchayati raj, was given the additional charge of ministry of food processing in September last year after Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal quit the cabinet as her party, Akali Dal decided to quit the NDA over the farm laws.After the passing of Suresh Angadi in September , the position of Minister of State for Railways has also been lying vacant.More recently, union minister for sports Kiren Rijiju was given additional charge of the Ayush ministry after Shripad Naik who has independent charge of the ministry was injured in a road accident in January. Naik is still recuperating.“There are some vacancies that need to be filled. There are some hopefuls who have been expecting to land a position in the council of ministers but so far there is no clarity on when this will be done. At present the government has its hands full trying to control the second wave of the corona pandemic,” said a senior party leader who asked not to be named.The council of ministers currently has 21 cabinet ministers. There are nine ministers of state with independent charge; of these, Rajkumar Singh, Mansukh Mandviya, Jitender Singh, Rijiju, Hardeep Puri and Naik are also ministers of state with additional ministries. The total number of ministers of state is 23.The ruling dispensation has lost three allies, the Shiv Sena, the Akali Dal and the LJP since 2019. Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal (United), rejoined the NDA in 2017, but it does not have representation in the Centre.The government has also not proposed any candidate for the Lok Sabha Deputy Speaker’s post for two years. This is the longest period for which that post has remained vacant. When Atal Behari Vajpayee became PM for the second time in March 1998, it took almost nine months to decide on the deputy speaker’s post before it went to Congress leader PM Sayeed who took oath on September 17, 1998.Parliament managers pointed out that the Deputy Speaker’s post, by convention, goes to an Opposition party. With the BJP averse to the Congress getting that post, the government was looking at options from other Opposition parties. It is believed to have approached Odisha CM Naveen Patnaik for a nominee from his party, the BJD. But Patnaik didn’t show much interest.Commenting on the deputy speaker’s post, a second BJP functionary who asked not to be named said: “No decision has been taken so far. Since the pandemic has also affected the functioning of Parliament, it is likely that the process will pick up pace once sessions can be resumed normally.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ministerial-vacancies-in-focus-as-govt-nears-2-years-of-term-101621887799821.html
25-05-2021||India||Yaas may intensify into very severe cyclonic storm: IMD||The deep depression over east-central Bay of Bengal intensified into a cyclonic storm, Yaas, on Monday morning, and is very likely to intensify into a ‘severe cyclonic storm’ by Monday night and a ‘very severe cyclonic storm’ in the subsequent 24 hours, India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said.Yaas (pronounced Yass) is likely to reach the north Odisha and West Bengal coasts between Paradip and Sagar islands close to Balasore in Odisha on May 26 early morning as a ‘very severe cyclonic storm’ with wind speeds of up to 166 km/hr. After crossing the coast in the afternoon, it will intensify further.IMD had earlier said Yass would make landfall around Wednesday evening, but on Monday, it advanced the time. “Once Yaas intensifies into a ‘severe cyclone’, we expect its travel over the sea to be faster, which is why the time of landfall has been advanced,” said Sunitha Devi who tracks cyclones at IMD. She added that at the time of landfall, wind speed will be up to 165 km/hr, with gusts up to 185 km/hr.Although oceanic and atmospheric conditions over Bay of Bengal are extremely favourable for intensification of Yaas, experts hope it won’t become an ‘extremely severe cyclone’ as it has formed relatively close to the coast and has less time to travel over the unusually warm sea. Matthew Roxy Koll, a climate scientist at Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, Pune, had said on Sunday that north Bay of Bengal, where the cyclone is forming, is very warm with surface temperatures reaching up to 32 degrees Celsius — 1-2 degrees above normal. “However, since the distance between the location of cyclogenesis and landfall is short, the cyclone won’t spend much time over the ocean. This will prevent it from intensifying into an extremely severe cyclone,” Koll had said.But IMD scientists do not rule out the possibility of further intensification. “Comparatively, its time over sea is less. Cyclone Fani (2019) had formed over Andaman Sea, and Amphan (2020) had also formed towards the south. After Aila (2009), this is probably the first to be comparatively closer to the coast. The landfall location of Yaas will be slightly to the west compared to Amphan, which made landfall over the Sunderbans,” Devi said.But whether Yaas intensifies into an extremely severe cyclone or not, a lot of people are in harm’s way. “Millions of people are in the path of Yaas as it barrels towards Odisha and West Bengal. These include coastal and river-side communities living in immediately floodable areas and vulnerable houses, as well as marginal families living in slums and shanties that are expected to be impacted severely,” said Anshu Sharma, co-founder, Sustainable Environment and Ecological Development Society, an NGO.He also expressed serious concern about these regions still struggling with a high number of Covid cases, as that complicates evacuation and rescue operations. “Given the scale of the cyclone, we need to be conscious of a sizable number of people with special needs who may be impacted besides Covid patients, including pregnant women, infants, persons with disabilities and those out of work and resources due to the lockdowns,” Sharma said.The cyclone will give rise to tidal waves as high as 4 metres, which might inundate low-lying coastal areas of Jhargram, South 24 Parganas and Midnapore in West Bengal, and Balasore, Bhadrak, Kendrapara and Jagatsinghpur districts in Odisha, around the time of landfall.Light to moderate rain at many places with heavy falls at isolated places over coastal Odisha is likely on Monday, with heavy to very heavy rain over some areas, and extremely heavy rain (over 20 cm) at isolated places in Jagatsinghpur, Cuttack, Kendrapara, Jajpur and Bhadrak on May 26.In West Bengal and Sikkim, light to moderate rain was expected at most places, with heavy falls at isolated places in the coastal districts of West Bengal on Monday. Gale winds with speeds up to 90 km/hr have been blowing already over west-central and east-central Bay of Bengal.Squalls with speeds of 110 km/hr are likely to blow from May 26 early morning and gradually intensify to up to 185 km/hr over northwest Bay of Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yaas-may-intensify-into-very-severe-cyclonic-storm-imd-101621885032984.html
25-05-2021||India||Mehul Choksi goes missing in Antigua, claims lawyer||Fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi has gone missing, prompting the Antigua police to launch a manhunt for the scam accused, his lawyer Vijay Aggarwal claimed early on Tuesday. The confirmation came shortly after local reports from Antigua, where Choksi has sought refuge as a citizen, stated that he left his home on Monday "to go for dinner at a well-known restaurant in the southern part of the island and was never seen again".The diamond merchant's vehicle was found in Jolly Harbour later in the evening without any trace of him, a report by antiguanewsroom.com stated.Talking to HT, Choksi's lawyer Aggarwal said, "Mehul Choksi is missing. His family members are worried and anxious and had called me to discuss. Antigua police are investigating. Family is in the dark and worried about his safety.”The 61-year-old Indian businessman and the owner of retail jewellery Gitanjali group is wanted by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate (ED) in connection with a multi-crore scam.Also read: Mehul Choksi challenged move to revoke citizenship, says lawyerChoksi is accused of siphoning off close to ₹7,080 crore in the ₹13,578 crore Punjab National Bank (PNB) fraud before fleeing to Antigua on January 4, 2018, a month before the mega-scam came to notice.An arrest warrant for Choksi has been issued in connection with the alleged PNB fraud case. He was allegedly involved in stock market manipulation in 2013.In a charge sheet filed last year, the ED claimed Choksi didn’t just cheat Indian banks but customers and lenders in Dubai and the United States as well. His assets worth ₹2,500 crore have already been attached.Earlier in March this year, Antigua and Barbuda has initiated the process to cancel the fugitive diamantaire’s citizenship granted under the Caribbean nation’s Citizenship by Investment Programme (CIP) in November 2017 but he challenged the government’s move in court.Also read: Mehul Choksi moves Delhi high court against Netflix documentary ‘Bad Boy Billionaires’Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had claimed in March this year that fugitive businessmen Vijaya Mallya, Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi are "coming back to India" to face the law.The three businessmen are all coming back to face law of the land, Sitharaman said in the Rajya Sabha while replying to a debate on the insurance amendment bill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fugitive-diamantaire-mehul-choksi-goes-missing-antigua-police-launches-manhunt-101621885237942.html
25-05-2021||India||Use RBI-approved ₹99k-crore for Covid jabs: Kerala HC to Centre||Thiruvananthapuram: The Kerala high court on Monday suggested that the Centre provide free Covid-19 vaccines to citizens by using the recent dividends of more than ₹99,000 crore from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). Hearing a petition questioning the different price regimes for vaccines and its subsequent scarcity, the single bench headed by Justice Vinod Chandran observed that the Centre can use ₹34,000 crore to inoculate 137 crore people in the country byutilising the ₹99,000 crore that was recently approved by the central bank. “You have an additional income from the RBI, why don’t you use it for this purpose. We are asking you to ask your policy makers about this,” the court told the counsel for the Union government. During the hearing, the counsel for the petitioner contended that the production of vaccination was reduced after the new policy, wherein 50% of the vaccine supply will be managed by the Centre while the remaining will be procured by the states directly from manufacturers, was introduced from May 1. However, Raj Kumar, counsel for the Centre, told the court that vaccines were being given free of cost to people above 45 years of age and about 80 lakh vaccines were already given to the state. Citing it as a policy matter, Kumar sought more time to file a response. At this point, the court said this was not the time to look into matters of federalism and Centre-state relations. It later adjourned the hearing till May 31 for a detailed statement from the Centre. In Kerala, approximately 20 lakh people have received both the doses and about 60 lakh have received only the first jab so far. The state, meanwhile, reported 17,821 new cases on Monday while 87,331 samples were tested with a test positivity rate of 20.41 per cent. The state also reported 196 deaths. The active cases stood at 259,179, according to the data released by the state health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/use-rbi-approved-99k-crore-for-covid-jabs-kerala-hc-to-centre-101621884789643.html
25-05-2021||India||TN govt seeks ban on Family Man-2 web series||Chennai: The Tamil Nadu government on Monday wrote to Union Information and Broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar seeking a ban on The Family Man 2 web series across the country.The state said that the Hindi series, which will release on June 4 on a digital platform ‘depicts the Eelam Tamils in a highly objectionable manner’ and called the content ‘condemnable’ and ‘malicious’.“It is aimed at discrediting and distorting the historical struggle of Eelam Tamils in Sri Lanka,” the statement read. “For example, branding Tamil-speaking actress Samantha Akkineni as a terrorist in the serial is directly an attack on the pride of Tamils living around the world and no one will tolerate this kind of motivated and mischievous campaign,” a statement read.The first person to call for a ban on the series was Tamil nationalist and chief of Naam Tamizhar Katchi (NTK) S Seeman. He was more vocal about the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) being portrayed as a terrorist organisation and Tamils as violent people. The LTTE was a militant separatist group fighting for an independent homeland for Hindu Tamils in Northeastern Sri Lanka. “If they refuse to ban the show and if they release it country-wide to try and create a false impression about Tamil people, I warn that they will have to face dire consequences,” Seeman had said in a statement last week.On Sunday, Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (MDMK) chief Vaiko also wrote to Javadekar to stop the release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-govt-seeks-ban-on-family-man-2-web-series-101621884727767.html
25-05-2021||India||2.16bn Covid jabs will be made available by end of 2021, Centre tells Madras HC||Chennai: The Centre on Monday informed the Madras high court that 2.16 billion doses of Covid-19 vaccine would be made available by the end of the year for every Indian to be fully vaccinated.This submission was recorded during a suo moto case being heard by the first bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy on Covid-19 preparedness in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry.Additional Solicitor-General R Shankaranarayanan informed the court that the possible disruption due to Cyclone Yaas has been taken into consideration by the central government in terms of oxygen supply for Covid patients.However, the court said that the future of allocation of vaccines for Tamil Nadu appeared disappointing. The Centre in its affidavit maintained that the allocation is based on the population of a state but the court suggested revisiting such criteria and rather looking at objective factors such as a high positivity rate. “However, there is hope that vaccines would be available in great numbers upon various manufacturing units augmenting their production facilities,” the court said.The Centre has also indicated that measures have been put in place to manufacture the drugs that are in short supply to treat cases of mucormycosis. The case was adjourned to May 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/216bn-covid-jabs-will-be-made-available-by-end-of-2021-centre-tells-madras-hc-101621884667716.html
25-05-2021||India||2008 Andhra highway killings: 12 sentenced to death, 7 get life imprisonment||Hyderabad: A local court in Ongole in Andhra Pradesh on Monday sentenced 12 members of a gang to death and seven other to life imprisonment for killing 13 truck drivers and cleaners on Chennai-Kolkata highway in 2008. District eighth additional sessions court judge G Manohar Reddy, who heard arguments over the prosecution’s charge sheet in seven different cases, pronounced the judgement in four cases. The judge also sentenced seven others of the gang to life imprisonment. The Andhra Pradesh high court will have to affirm the death sentence.Mohammad Abdul Samad alias Munna and his gang committed these crimes in 2008. According to Prakasam district police, Munna used to masquerade as a commercial tax officer and stop trucks coming with heavy loads of goods on the Chennai-Kolkata national highway (NH-16) passing through the district, in the name of checking their documents. “As the driver and cleaner got down from the vehicle, he would strangulate them driver and cleaner with the help of his accomplices and divert the truck to an unknown place. He stuffed the bodies of the victims in gunny bags and bury them deep in the forest areas. Later, he would dismantle the trucks into scrap and sell them along with the goods over a period of time,” a police official said. In a span of a few months in 2008, Munna and his gang killed as many as 13 persons. “The missing of trucks along with drivers and cleaners became a challenge for the Prakasam police those days. A thorough investigation by the police led to the arrest of Munna and his men within a short period in 2009,” the police official said. In 2013, Munna was released on bail in one of the cases and he fled to Kurnool, where he allegedly hatched a plan to eliminate a businessman. He was arrested at Nandyal in Kurnool district in January 2014 and has been in jail since then. The accused were charged under various sections of Indian Penal Code including Sections 396 (any one of five or more persons, who are conjointly committing dacoity, commits murder in so committing dacoity), 120-B (criminal conspiracy ), 400 (dacoity by a gang), 412 ( possessing stolen property) and 414 (Concealing and disposing of stolen property), besides Section 25 (1-A) of Arms Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2008-andhra-highway-killings-12-sentenced-to-death-7-get-life-imprisonment-101621884607737.html
25-05-2021||India||TN teacher suspended over sexual harassment charges||Chennai: A teacher of a prominent city school on Monday was suspended pending an inquiry after multiple allegations of sexual harassment by past as well as present students surfaced against him on social media.The Padma Seshadri Bala Bhavan (PSBB) Senior Secondary School, meanwhile, claimed that no complaints were made against the teacher, who taught commerce, in the past.A special police team led by Crimes against Women and Children (CWC) deputy commissioner of police H Jayalakshmi visited the school to probe the case. School education minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi told reporters that he has asked officials of the concerned education department to look into the allegations. “The chief education officer has enquired with the school management. The school has informed us that they will set up a committee to look into the issue,” Poyyamozhi said. The incident came to light after an alumna shared an instance of sexual harassment against the teacher on Instagram on Sunday. Likewise, several students came forward and accused the teacher of making inappropriate jokes; one of them claimed that he had even invited her for a movie. Another student alleged that the school had failed to act against the accused despite several complaints. The issue escalated after Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) MPs Kanimozhi and Dayanidhi Maran called for strict action. While Kanimozhi called for action against the teacher and school authorities who failed to act despite complaints, Maran wrote to Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal to direct the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) to probe the lapses in addressing the issue. Following the allegations on Instagram, over 1,000 alumni of the school wrote to the management, demanding the immediate suspension of the teacher pending investigation. The alumni alleged that despite several complaints against the accused, who has been teaching for more than 20 years in the school, authorities did not initiate any action besides a verbal warning. The alumni noted that the accused routinely harassed girl students, physically touched them with sexual intent and warned of retaliation if they complained.The alumni also said that the teacher had access to contact numbers of all students since classes had moved online in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. In their petition to school authorities, the alumni demanded that the teacher be excluded from all academic activity, including grading students in their exams or evaluating them till the investigation into the case is completed. “Ensure that the identity of minors and school children are protected, and no adverse, penal, or retaliatory action is taken against them in any regard,” the petition added. “It pains us that despite the fact that complaints and concerns about (the accused, name withheld) has been escalated in the past, it has not been dealt with the rigorous expectations of an institution like PSBB and we hope that the same will be addressed effectively now.”A section of students belonging to the 2007 batch, however, came in support of the teacher, and demanded a fair probe into the incident. In a statement later in the day, the school refuted charges that complaints against the accused were raised in the past. “We would like to assure you that our school has zero tolerance towards any behaviour that adversely affects the physical, emotional and psychological well being of our students,” the statement signed by the principal and dean of the school said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-teacher-suspended-over-sexual-harassment-charges-101621884547743.html
25-05-2021||India||Andhra declares Krishnapatnam medicine safe||Hyderabad The Andhra Pradesh government on Monday declared the medicine distributed by ayurveda practitioner Bonige Anandaiah of Krishnapatnam village in Nellore district to treat Covid-19 patients as “safe and harmless”. Andhra Pradesh Ayush commissioner Ramulu Naik on Monday told reporters in Vijayawada that the study conducted by a team of experts from the department has revealed that there were no harmful substances in the medicine distributed by Anandaiah. He said 18 herbs were used in the preparation of the medicine and all were safe with proven medicinal qualities. “So far, 80,000 people have consumed this medicine. We spoke to some of them and there were no complaints from anyone,” Naik said. He, however, said the medicine could not be certified as an ayurvedic medicine, as it should be decided based on the rules of Drugs and Cosmetics Act. “As such, we cannot call it an ayurvedic medicine for the cure of Covid-19. The government will look into the possibility of allowing it for distribution in some other form,” Naik said. On Sunday, state principal secretary (medical and health) Anil Kumar Singhal said the government had in-principle no objection to allow Anandaiah to continue distribution of the medicine but added that a final decision would be taken after going through the reports from the Ayush department and an expert team constituted to look into it. A team from the Ayurvedic College in Tirupati and another from the Central Council for Research in Ayurvedic Studies, New Delhi, were also studying the efficacy of the medicine, said an official. Earlier, the chief minister’s office had said that an eight-member team of experts from Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) would visit the village to study Anandaiah’s medicine, but the team dropped its plan after the Ministry of Ayush took over the study, said an official in the state secretariat familiar with the development. Anandaiah, who has been practising herbal medicine for several years, became popular following reports in the local media a few days ago that a medicine he prepared could cure Covid-19 patients. As the news spread, hundreds of people started coming to Krishnapatnam village to take the medicine, which was being distributed free of cost. Last week, YSR Congress Party legislator from Sarvepalli Kakani Goverdhan Reddy said the medicine would be distributed formally to all patients with effect from Friday. As a result, thousands of people from different parts of Andhra Pradesh and even neighbouring states thronged Krishnapatnam village in Nellore district. However, following instructions from the Jagan Mohan Reddy government, district officials immediately stopped Anandaiah from distributing the medicine as thousands of people started making a beeline to his clinic, breaking the Covid-19 restrictions. The chief minister ordered a comprehensive study into the efficacy of the medicine in consultation with the Centre. Nellore collector K V Chakradhar Babu had earlier said the formula and ingredients of the medicine would be sent to a lab in Hyderabad for analysis. “Depending on the findings, people can approach relevant authorities to obtain permissions through pre-established procedures for distribution of the medicine,” the collector had said. Ayush commissioner said the lab reports from Hyderabad gave a positive report on Krishnapatnam medicine. “We are awaiting three more reports from various labs. Based on these reports, the government would take a call on allowing the distribution of medicine,” Naik said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-declares-krishnapatnam-medicine-safe-101621884487744.html
25-05-2021||India||MPs seek recall of Lakshadweep administrator over ‘anti-people’ reforms||Two members of Parliament on Monday wrote to the President against various measures taken by the acting administrator of Lakshadweep, Praful Khoda Patel, which they said, would “destroy unique culture and tradition of the Indian Ocean group of islands”.Patel, the administrator of the Union Territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu was given additional charge of Lakshadweep in December last year following the demise of Dineshwar Sharma, who was former Intelligence Bureau chief.Lakshadweep MP, Nationalist Congress Party’s Mohammed Faizal and his colleague from neighbouring Kerala, Elamaram Kareem (Communist Party of India-Marxist) have urged the Centre to recall Patel, the administrator of India’s smallest union territory.The MPs alleged that the former Gujarat minister unilaterally decided to introduce norms for mandatory acquiring of private property for development, anti-Goonda rules that gave police powers to detain anyone, remove beef from the mid-day meal, cut trees for road expansion projects and introduce two-child norm for contesting in local body elections without any consultation with people.The Congress and CPI(M) joined hands to oppose his decisions, saying Patel was trying to “saffronise the island” where almost 95% population is Muslim.Kareem on Monday sought immediate intervention of the President, saying Patel’s decision to remove quarantine centre in Kochi for persons coming to the island from abroad has resulted in surge on Covid cases. The MP said the island had contained infections effectively till last December, but now test positivity rate has gone above 40%. Earlier, infected people were quarantined in Kochi and were allowed to proceed to islands two weeks after testing negative, but this facility was scrapped after Patel took the charge.Kareem, in his letter, said people were really worried because the island, home to 70,000, did not have super specialty hospitals or enough oxygen reserves. “This unplanned and unscientific altering of the SOPs led to surge in cases in the island where not even a single case was reported till December 2020,” Kareem said.“We want the Union government to recall him. I have already spoken to Prime Minister (Narendra) Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah. He can’t bulldoze values and traditions of the island like this. If the government ignores our plea, we will be forced to start an agitation,” said NCP leader and Lakshadweep MP Mohammad Faizal.Faizal, who is a second-term MP from the island, said new rules like two-child norm for local body polls, removal of beef from the mid-day meal scheme and goonda act were an insult to local people. He added that according to the National Crime Records Bureau, the island has “lowest crime rate in the country and its small jails are almost empty”.The MP said some of Patel’s decisions were against the recommendations of Justice Raveendran Commission appointed by the Supreme Court in 2012 to look into allegations of some private resorts allowed in violation of coastal zone regulations. “His moves to widen roads, and develop inner areas are against the integrated island management plan mooted by the commission. You can’t develop it as a major tourism hub by hurting sentiments of local people. All elected representatives are kept in the dark,” he said.Stating that some of the administrator’s orders and promulgations were with ulterior motives to destroy traditional life and diversity of people, Kareem said, “These steps were taken without an iota of consideration towards people’s livelihood and food. Hundreds of casual and contract labourers were thrown out of their jobs after he assumed power.”Congress leader V T Balram and many film celebrities like actor Prithviraj have also aired their protest. “These reforms are bizzare. When an entire community is unhappy with the decisions taken by a nominated authority, I hope people in power will hear their voice. I have faith in our system and even more faith in the people. It is one of the most beautiful places on earth with even more beautiful people living there,” Prithviraj said in his recent social media post.Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has also condemned the move to introduce certain reforms, which, he said, will affect the culture and tradition of the island. “Kerala has close relations with island for many years. Reports from the island are really disturbing. It seems there is a concerted move to dilute the tradition of Lakshadweep. We condemn such moves and we will always support residents’ endeavor to protect their customs,” he said in the state capital.Parful Khoda Patel was the minister of state for home in Gujarat cabinet when Narendra Modi was the chief minister. In 2016, he was appointed as the administrator of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and later also became the administrative head of Daman and Diu. He has had a running feud with district collector and IAS officer Kannan Gopinathan, who later resigned from the civil service.Patel was not available for his comments despite repeated requests.Meanwhile, defending Patel, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) claimed that the protests were a result of his efforts to end “corrupt practices” involving local politicians prevalent and usher in development there.BJP national vice-president AP Abdullakutty, the party’s prabhari in Lakshadweep, alleged the opposition MPs were protesting as Patel took certain steps to end the “corrupt practices” of politicians in the islands.Claiming that the local people were happy with the administration, he alleged that an atmosphere of tension has been created through the media and social media by certain fundamentalist groups operating from Kerala.“Unfortunately, these MPs are playing to the tunes of such outfits without realising the truth,” Abdullakutty said.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mps-seek-recall-of-lakshadweep-administrator-over-anti-people-reforms-101621884427759.html
25-05-2021||India||Sputnik V production to begin soon in India||The developers of Russia’s Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine and Panacea Biotec on Monday announced that full-scale production of the doses in India will start this summer.The Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), or Russia’s sovereign wealth fund, has tied up with Indian pharmaceutical firms such as Gland Pharma, Hetero Biopharma, Panacea Biotec, Stelis Biopharma and Virchow Biotech to make more than 850 million doses a year.Sputnik V has been granted approval for emergency use by India’s drug controller.“The first batch produced at Panacea Biotec’s facilities at Baddi will be shipped to the Gamaleya Center (in Russia) for quality control. Full-scale production of the vaccine is due to start this summer. The company’s facilities comply with GMP [good manufacturing practice] standards and are prequalified by the WHO,” RDIF said in a statement.Sputnik V was registered in India under the emergency use authorisation procedure on April 12 and use of the Russian vaccine started on May 14.RDIF and Panacea Biotec have agreed to produce 100 million doses a year of Sputnik V.RDIF chief executive officer Kirill Dmitriev said: “Launch of production in India in partnership with Panacea Biotec marks an important step in helping the country fight the pandemic. Production of Sputnik V supports efforts of India’s authorities to leave behind the acute phase of coronavirus as soon as possible while the vaccine will also be exported at a later stage to help prevent the spread of the virus in other countries.”Rajesh Jain, managing director of Panacea Biotec, said: “This marks a significant step as we initiate production of Sputnik V. Together with RDIF, we hope to help bring a sense of normalcy back to people across the country and around the world.”Russia has also announced plans to ship 18 million doses of Sputnik V to India, including three million doses in May, five million doses in June, and 10 million in July. However, some questions have arisen about the Russian side’s ability to meet these commitments due to the production facilities in Russia being stretched by demands from around the world.Dr Reddy’s has tied up with RDIF for the distribution of Sputnik V in India, including both made-in-Russia doses and locally manufactured shots.Sputnik V has so far been registered in 66 countries with a total population of more than 3.2 billion. RDIF and Gamaleya Center have said the efficacy of Sputnik V is 97.6%, based on analysis of data on coronavirus infection rate among those vaccinated in Russia with both doses of Sputnik V from December 5, 2020 to March 31, 2021.The vaccine is based on the platform of human adenoviral vectors and uses two different vectors for the two doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sputnik-v-production-to-begin-soon-in-india-101621883370209.html
25-05-2021||India||Non-compliance with new guidelines will invite action: Centre to social media companies||The Union government has warned social media companies of action if they do not comply with new guidelines under the law as their three-month window to take steps such as appoint a chief compliance officer and a grievance officer closes this week.The guidelines are part of new rules framed under the Information Technology Act, by which the government has sought to put in place a stricter regulatory mechanism that companies like Facebook, Twitter and YouTube will need to abide by.“The rules were notified on February 25 and social media intermediaries have been given three months to comply,” said an official, asking not to be named. “So far, none of the prominent significant social media intermediaries have sent the ministry any intimation of such appointments. It is not necessary they inform the ministry, they can even furnish the details on the website. Either way, they have to comply.”Information Technology (Guidelines for intermediaries and digital media ethics code) Rules, 2021 were notified by the ministry on February 25 for social media intermediaries such as Twitter and Facebook, and over-the-top (OTT) platforms such as Netflix, Hotstar and Amazon.It mandated a three-tier self-regulatory structure for streaming platforms and increased due diligence by social media companies and data sharing, such as information about the first originator, with enforcement agencies. Significant social media intermediaries are defined as platforms that have 50,000 users or more.Under part four of the new guidelines, significant social media intermediaries were required to appoint a compliance officer, “responsible for ensuring compliance with the Act and rules” and be “liable in any proceedings relating to any relevant third-party information, data or communication link made available or hosted by that intermediary where he fails to ensure that such intermediary observes due diligence while discharging its duties under the Act”.Intermediaries are also required to appoint a nodal contact person for 24x7 coordination with law enforcement agencies and a Resident Grievance Officer.HT reached out to Twitter, Facebook and WhatsApp but did not receive a response until press time.A second official familiar with the matter said that soon as the rules were notified, they became a legal framework. “According to part 7 of the new guidelines, if the intermediary does not follow the rules, it is liable for punishment under Indian law, as section 79 of the (IT) Act will no longer apply.” Section 79 provides intermediaries “safe habour”, that is, exemption from punishment for third party content posted on its website.Section seven of the new guidelines states — “Where an intermediary fails to observe these rules, the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 79 of the Act shall not be applicable to such intermediary and the intermediary shall be liable for punishment under any law for the time being in force including the provisions of the Act and the Indian Penal Code.”Asia Pacific Policy director at Access Now Raman Chima said that revocation of safe harbour is something for the Court to decide. “The Union government does not have the sole authority to device how internet intermediaries are able to make use of the legal protection granted to them by Parliament. Whether the Government’s rules are constitutional - and whether partial or incomplete compliance impacts this legal immunity provided in law - will ultimately be decided by judges, and not just by the executive branch.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/noncompliance-with-new-guidelines-will-invite-action-centre-to-social-media-companies-101621882808192.html
25-05-2021||India||4 held for assaulting meat seller in UP; victim also booked||Meerut: Four men accused of thrashing a meat-seller at Gott village under Katghar police station in Uttar Pradesh’s Moradabad district on Sunday were arrested on Monday, Moradabad police said. However, the victim was also booked for killing an animal with the intention to create mischief and violating lockdown guidelines. A video of the incident was widely circulated on social media on Sunday. In that the men, along with two others — all of them self-styled gau rakshaks (cow protection vigilantes) —were seen catching a meat-seller and transporter named Mohammed Shakir and assaulting him for allegedly carrying buffalo meat with him. Shakir also alleged that his attackers demanded ₹50,000 from him.Moradabad’s superintendent of police (city) Amit Kumar Anand said a case was registered against six people on the complaint of the victim’s brother, Zakir, and hunt was on for the other two men, including the main accused, Manoj Thakur. “We will arrest them soon,” Anand said.Thakur claimed to be the national vice president of Gau Raksha Vahini, a cow protection vigilante group. But the outfit said he was fired from it six months earlier. The police couldn’t give a clear answer about Thakur’s institutional affiliation. “The case is under investigation, and I don’t know much about it,” said Gajendra Singh, station house officer of Katghar police station, when asked to confirm if Thakur was indeed an office-bearer of the vigilante group. The police also lodged a case against Mohd Shakir for “causing mischief by killing an animal” and committing an act likely to spread infection and cause violation of the partial Covid curfew — legalese for the charge of not wearing a mask. But the Moradabad SP denied it was a counter case. “Approximately 50kg meat was seized from him, and he failed to show any valid document for its purchase,” Anand said. The case against the vigilantes was registered under sections 147 (rioting), 148 (armed with a deadly weapon), 149 (unlawful assembly), 389 (extortion), 386 (extortion by putting a person in fear of death), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code at Katghar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-held-for-assaulting-meat-seller-in-up-victim-also-booked-101621882807676.html
25-05-2021||India||Delhi police visit Twitter offices in city, Gurugram over ‘toolkit case’||The Delhi Police on Monday said they have sought a clarification from Twitter in connection with a tweet by Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) national spokesperson Sambit Patra about an alleged toolkit released by the Congress party that the micorblogging site tagged as “manipulated media.”Delhi Police officers on Monday evening visited offices in South Delhi’s Lado Sarai and Golf Course Road in Gurugram. A police team from Lodhi Colony’s special cell visited the offices to secure the participation of Twitter’s managing director Manish Maheshwari as part of the probe.“The person(Manish Maheshwari) who had to join investigation said he is not the concerned person. He sent a reply to the DCP of special cell that he was part of Twitter India and not Twitter Inc. Any tagging to that concerned tweet was done by Twitter Inc. Though his bio said he is the MD of Twitter in India. So we visited the Twitter office to summon the concerned and verify his claims. This is just a preliminary inquiry,” a senior police officer said. The visit came after the special cell of Delhi Police asked Twitter to explain the “manipulated media” tag.The city police’s special cell has been conducting an enquiry into a complaint filed with the police chief and the Tughlak Road police station on May 18 by two Congress party leaders, seeking a first information report (FIR) against some BJP leaders for allegedly “forging documents, and circulating fabricated material on Twitter under the hashtag CongressToolkitExposed.” No FIR was registered till Monday evening in the matter, the police said.Twitter flagged the Patra tweet on Friday. In his tweet, Patra released details of the Toolkit, a social media campaign playbook, that the Congress allegedly prepared to defame Prime Minister Narendra Modi and build a biased narrative over India’s management of Covid-19, and the Central Vista project. The IT ministry has already written to Twitter , expressing its displeasure at the tagging, and asking it to remove the “manipulated media” descriptor.“Delhi Police is enquiring into a complaint in which clarification is sought from the Twitter regarding the classification of a tweet by Sambit Patra as manipulated . It appears that Twitter has some information which is not known to us on the basis of which they have classified it as such....” the Delhi Police said in a statement released on Monday evening by their spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal.Twitter did not respond to queries on the incident.Rajeev Gowda, who heads the Congress’s research department on Monday said, “This is an effort to cover up the whole thing. The BJP hatched a conspiracy to cook up a forged document and they have been caught. Now they are trying to browbeat Twitter. They have no legal authority to do that.”Patra did not respond to requests for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-police-visit-twitter-offices-in-city-gurugram-over-toolkit-case-101621882151033.html
25-05-2021||India||Put PM Modi’s photo on death certificates too: BJP ally Manjhi||Jitan Ram Manjhi, the chief of one of the National Democratic Alliance’s (NDA) partners in Bihar, Hindustani Awam Morcha-Secular (HAM-S), set off a political storm on Monday when he said that like vaccination certificates, death certificates of Covid-19 victims should also carry the photograph of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.“If you are so fond of putting photograph on the vaccine certificate, then the photo should be put on the death certificate too. Only this will be fair,” the former Bihar chief minister posted on Twitter. He shortly deleted his tweet, but not before it was noticed.His deleted tweet follows one on Sunday when he said that it would have been more appropriate to have a photograph of the President. In the same tweet he added that the PM’s of the respective chief minister’s picture could be used.This is the second controversy to break out over the use of the PM’s photograph in the certificates. Over the weekend, it emerged that Chattisgarh was issuing certificates to those vaccinated in the 18-45 years age group with CM Bhupesh Baghel’s photograph. His government defended the move on the grounds that vaccines in this segment are being funded by the state.Manjhi’s son Santosh Manjhi is a minister for minor irrigation and SC/ST Welfare department in the Nitish Kumar-led NDA government in the state. HAM-S won four out of the seven seats it contested in the Assembly elections last year.HAM-S spokesperson Danish Rizwan said: “Not 1% of the population of Dalit and Adivasis have been vaccinated yet because they are afraid and fear vaccination. Putting the picture of the President, who is also a Dalit, will inspire them.”Taking note of Manjhi’s deleted tweet, the state’s opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) party suggested that HAM-S quit the NDA alliance. “What he raised today, the opposition has been demanding the same. If you are against the autocratic system, come out of it otherwise people will think that you are issuing statements to be in the news,” RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwari said.Reacting to Manjhi’s tweet, Janata Dal (United) state president Umesh Kushwaha said everyone has the right to share their views in a democracy. “Manjhi ji is a mature leader and a part of the NDA. In a democracy, everybody has the right to put forward his views and at times, people come out with personal views as well, which is always welcome. This is the beauty of democracy.”BJP state chief Sanjay Jaiswal said: “I can say for sure that the certificate is an authentic letter for one and all anywhere in the world.”Political analyst D M Diwakar said it appears as though all is not well for Manjhi in the alliance. “He is probably testing the waters elsewhere.”Like Chattisgarh, Jharkand is also issuing certificates with photographs of chief minister Hemant Soren to beneficiaries in the 18-45 age group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/put-pm-modi-s-photo-on-death-certificates-too-bjp-ally-manjhi-101621882327622.html
25-05-2021||India||Farm union welcomes Oppn support to stir||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), a platform of farmer unions protesting three agricultural laws, on Monday “welcomed” the support offered by key Opposition parties to its planned mass demonstration on May 26, and asked them to mount the pressure on the Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre to repeal a series of legislation passed last year. The farmers’ outfit, however, reiterated that it wouldn’t involve any political party in their agitation or negotiations. “We have always said that only direct talks between the farmers and the government solve the issue. The government thinks it has freed itself from the issue. That’s why we are asking for talks,” said Gurnam Singh Charuni, a farm leader. Farmers have been protesting at five sites in large camps near Delhi’s borders: Singhu, Ghaziabad, Tikri, Dhansa and at Shahjahanpur on the Rajasthan-Haryana border, demanding the rollback of three laws passed in September last year to lift restrictions on trade in farm produce. On May 21, the SKM wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, asking the Union government to resume dialogue to end the agitation, but remained steadfast on their demand to scrap the legislation. Farm leaders said they wanted to use the occasion to “keep things on the boil”. The top leadership of the agitation felt that the government could not be allowed to simply sit tight even as the farmers protested. “We wrote to the prime minister because we have to keep things on the boil. The government cannot take it easy,” said Hannan Mollah, a left politician who is a key member of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha.The SKM’s statement comes a day after leaders of 12 opposition parties extended their support to the farmers’ call for a nationwide protest on May 26 to mark months of the farmers’ protest against the Centre’s three new farm laws, despite fears that large gatherings of farmers camped on the capital’s borders and elsewhere could turn into a superspreader event amid a raging second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. The apparent trigger for the farmers’ letter to the prime minister, asking him to urgently restart talks, is that the farmers’ protests would complete six months on May 26. So far, 11 rounds of talks between 40 farm leaders and the government have failed to resolve the crisis. Both the government and farmers called off the series of discussions on January 22, citing lack of progress. The unions have rejected the government’s offer to freeze the laws for 18 months. The agriculture ministry is awaiting instructions from the “highest level” – which in bureaucratic parlance usually means the prime minister’s office -- on how to respond to the demand to resume negotiations. “The letter was addressed to the prime minister. So, a decision on what next (is to be done) will depend on instructions from the highest levels,” an agriculture ministry official said. Congress secretary Pranav Jha supported the farmers’ protest plans. “In this government, nothing can move without Modi’s consent. Only if he wants, the farm laws can be repealed. But the government’s strategy so far had been to tire out the farmers and waiting to see that they go away.” “It is a political movement now. It’s not simply a farmers’ movement,” said KS Mani a farm economist formerly with the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University. A section of the Opposition, however, thinks that the farmers have stretched their agitation unnecessarily. A senior Opposition leader from Punjab, requesting anonymity, said, “In every agitation, it is more important to know when to stop than when to begin the agitation.” “The farm groups should have declared victory after the Supreme Court put the laws in abeyance and gone home. But they decided to stay put and after what happened on January 26, they have also lost support of the middle-class,” the leader added. Most of the protesters are farmers from Punjab and Haryana, the two food bowl states. They are demanding the repeal of three laws to liberalise farm trade passed by Parliament in September that farmers say will leave small farmers at the mercy of large corporate farms. A key concern is that the laws, by ushering in free markets, would pave the way for abolition of government-run markets that offer minimum support prices, an assured floor price, for staples. The Modi government has, however, billed the laws as a necessary step to modernize India’s antiquated farming sector that is hardly productive. The gross domestic product (GDP) per worker in agriculture is one-third of the economy-wide GDP per worker. This means productivity in agriculture is too low to lift the overall economy. Prime Minister Modi has sought to allay concerns that the system of support prices or MSP for farmers would be jeopardised in any way. “The system of MSP was there, is there and will continue to be there,” he had said in Parliament in February. To be sure, the new laws don’t offer a guarantee that the government will continue to offer support prices for staples, a system introduced in the 1960s to help India offer profitable prices to farmers to overcome food crises. The laws at the heart of the protests are The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance, Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020. The government has said the laws would spur investments and give farmers freedom to sell their produce directly to large buyers in a sector that accounts for nearly 15% of India’s $2.9 trillion economy and employs half its workforce.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-union-welcomes-oppn-support-to-stir-101621882267613.html
25-05-2021||India||Provide ration, meals to migrants, SC tells states||New Delhi: The Supreme Court on Monday told states that stranded migrants across the country must be given free dry ration and cooked food through community kitchens, in directions that sought to reduce the problems faced by unorganised sector workers rendered jobless during Covid lockdowns.The directives were, in effect, an extension to all states of the instructions given by the top court to the National Capital Region states of Delhi Uttar Pradesh and Haryana for migrants stranded in and around NCR. States will be free to either utilise the foodgrain received under the Atmanirbhar Bharat scheme, or provide them under any state-specific scheme. “We direct that migrant workers wherever stranded throughout the country should be provided the dry ration under the Atmanirbhar Scheme or any other scheme found suitable by the States/Centre,” the bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and MR Shah said. On providing cooked food, the bench directed the states and Union territories to open sufficient community kitchens for migrant workers. “There shall be wide publicity with respect to the various schemes including the places of community kitchens so that such needy persons may in fact take benefits,” the bench said. The orders came in a suo moto proceeding initiated by the top court in the light of problems faced by migrants across the country,The Court also identified the slow registration of workers in the unorganised sector as a major implementation flaw in schemes for their benefit. It pointed out that the Union labour ministry was working for well over a year on a National Database for Unorganised Workers (NDUW), which would include migrant and construction workers. “We are of the view that for accessing of any benefit percolating from any scheme framed by the Centre or the states for the benefit of unorganised workers or migrant workers, registration of workers is essential, which registration shall facilitate the unorganized workers to assess the scheme and reap the benefit,” the bench observed.The work on the database started after the Supreme Court in 2018 directed the labour ministry to set up a portal for registration of unorganised workers, and make it available to states. The Code of Social Security Act, 2020, by which the Unorganised Workers Social Security Act, 2008, stood repealed, also envisaged the registration of unorganised workers, gig workers, and platform workers.The court asked solicitor general Tushar Mehta to file an affidavit within two weeks, informing them about the progress of NDUW and the Social Security Code. The judges also urged states to collaborate with the Centre on completing the NDUW at the earliest.Most states told the court that workers were not coming forward to register, and some contractors refused to cooperate with government queries. “These are illiterate and downtrodden people. How will they cope up with online registration? Our main concern is that benefits should reach the needy persons. If they (migrant workers) are not coming, the Government must reach them and identify them,” the bench responded.The bench also underlined the need for a suitable mechanism to monitor and supervise whether the benefits of the welfare schemes reach people.  “On paper, the Government says it has spent crores of rupees, but they must also reach the needy,” the bench said.In May last, the top court took up a suo moto petition following media reports showing the mass exodus of migrant labourers from cities on foot and cycles, travelling for long distances without food, water or transport. The Court directed all states and UTs to arrange transport for stranded migrants by rail and road. Further, Court directed food and water to be supplied to them. In addition, the states which received migrants were to maintain data of workers who returned, their skill, and details of previous employment at the block, district and village level.Some civil rights activists, represented by advocate Prashant Bhushan, informed the court that the NCR states were yet to provide dry ration under the Atmanirbhar scheme, as directed by the court on May 13, and that very few community kitchens were functioning.Citing an example of Delhi, where construction workers were provided a cash incentive of ₹5000, the applicants demanded similar benefits to be extended to migrant workers, rickshaw pullers, and street vendors. But the bench refused, saying, “Cash transfer is a matter of policy and scheme framed by each State/Union Territory and no direction for cash transfer can be issued by this Court to any category of person unless they are covered by any scheme formulated by the State/Union territory.”The Court noted that several states were providing cash benefits ranging from ₹1,000 to ₹6,000, and sought details of such schemes from all states and UTs by the next date expected to be on June 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/provide-ration-meals-to-migrants-sc-tells-states-101621882027715.html
25-05-2021||India||Shah reviews prep, Mamata questions fund allocation||The ongoing tussle between West Bengal and the Centre continued on Monday after chief minister Mamata Banerjee accused the NDA government of allocating less funds to the state following a video conference with home minister Amit Shah to review preparedness for Cyclone Yaas. In the meeting with the chief ministers of Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and Bengal and the Lieutenant Governor of Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Shah directed the states to make adequate power back-up arrangements in all Covid-19 hospitals, labs, vaccine cold chains and other medical facilities, said a statement issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs. Banerjee said at least 20 districts in West Bengal, including Kalimpong and Darjeeling in the north, could be affected even though three coastal districts – South 24 Parganas, North 24 Parganas and East Midnapore – along with Kolkata will be directly hit. “They (the Centre) have announced an advance fund of ₹600 crore each to Andhra Pradesh and Odisha and a little more than ₹400 for West Bengal. I have questioned why Bengal was being deprived despite being a larger state with dense population. I asked Shah why this discrimination. He said that he would talk later and that allocation was based on scientific views,” Banerjee said. The severe cyclone is expected to cross the Odisha-West Bengal coast, close to Balasore in Odisha, around Wednesday noon with wind speeds of 140-165 kmph gusting up to 185 kmph. On Monday, West Bengal and Odisha started evacuation of people living in coastal areas to cyclone shelters and government buildings. The evacuation is to be completed by Tuesday afternoon.“Evacuation has already started and we plan to evacuate at least 10 lakh people. Around 4,000 cyclone and relief shelters have been set up. At least 51 rescue teams have been deployed. A 24x7 control room has been set up at the state secretariat which would coordinate up to the block level,” the chief minister said, adding that the army has been alerted. The chief minister urged people to wear masks even at relief centres as Covid is taking a heavy toll in the state. On Sunday, the state recorded more than 18,000 new cases and 156 deaths.“This time we have set up safe homes and quarantine centres where suspected patients and those detected with Covid after RAT could be shifted,” said a senior official of North 24 Parganas, associated with the evacuation process.In May 2020 the state was hit by another very severe cyclone Amphan, killing 98 people and damaging property worth a few thousand of crores. “Very severe cyclone Yaas is expected to cross the Odisha-West Bengal coast between Paradip and Sagar close to Balasore in Odisha on Wednesday noon. It would move towards Jharkhand,” said Sanjib Bandopadhyay, deputy director of the IMD’s (India Meteorological Department’s) regional office in Kolkata. During the time of landfall, the cyclone is predicted to trigger wind speeds up to 155-165 kmph gusting up to 185 kmph in East Midnapore district, located along the West Bengal-Odisha border. In Kolkata, wind speeds may reach up to 70-80 kmph gusting up to 90 kmph.IMD director general Mrutyunjay Mohapatra said the sea tide would be as high as 4-5 metres above the mean sea level during the period in the four districts of Balasore, Bhadrak, Kendrapara and Jagatsinghpur and some coastal districts of West Bengal. “These four districts will experience heavy to very heavy rainfall on May 26 with rains up to 300mm,” he said.The Odisha government on Monday started a massive evacuation exercise in the coastal districts of Balasore, Bhadrak, Kendrapara and Jagatsinghpur with Covid-appropriate behaviour in place. Special relief commissioner Pradip Jena said district collectors would complete the evacuation by May 25 afternoon. “Zero casualty is the motto,” he said.Jena said 10 senior IAS and IPS officers have been sent to the four coastal districts and Mayurbhanj to supervise relief, rehabilitation and restoration measures in the wake of the cyclone. In Balasore, where the cyclone is expected to pass through, district administration advised people to keep drinking water ready for at least four days. Those who are living under thatched houses have been advised to move to nearby cyclone centres.The Centre has rushed 52 NDRF teams apart from 60 of the ODRAF and 200 fire tenders are being kept on high alert. Similarly, 165 teams from the public works department and 165 from the rural development department have been formed for cyclone management, officials said.Odisha, which faced Cyclone Fani in May 2018 with speeds of up to 200 kmph, killing 64 people and affecting about 16.5 million people in over 18,000 villages, has a robust system to deal with such calamities. In 2018, Cyclone Titli killed 77 people, destroyed 260,000 hectares of agricultural land, over 60,000 houses, and killed more than 35,000 domestic animals. Between 1891 and 2021, over 100 tropical cyclones have lashed Odisha — the highest number among the states on the eastern coast.Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy told Shah that the impact of the cyclone is expected in north-coastal Andhra Pradesh and a few other coastal districts. “The process of evacuation of people in the vulnerable areas had commenced in Srikakulam district, bordering Odisha. The process will be followed in other districts as well,” the chief minister said. The CM asked officials of Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam to evacuate Covid-19 patients, if necessary, to safer hospitals. Effective measures should be taken to ensure that there are no power supply issues. Similarly, people from inland areas should be evacuated to safer places wherever necessary. All essentials, starting with supplies in relief camps, should be put in place, he said. Because of the cyclone moderate to extreme rain is expected in the coastal districts of West Bengal, Odisha and Andhra Pradesh and parts of Jharkhand, Sikkim and Bihar. In Jharkhand, a red alert has been issued with a prediction of extreme rainfall and high-velocity winds at speeds of up to 130 kmph on May 26-27.Deputy director at the IMD’s Randhi centre Abhishek Anand said, “Extreme rainfall is expected in some places such as East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum, Saraikela-Kharswan and Simdega district, on May 26.” He added the central part of Jharkhand, which comprises Ranchi, Bokaro, Gumla, Hazaribag, Khunti and Ramgarh, is likely to experience heavy to very heavy rainfall on Wednesday. “Hospitals have been asked to keep power back-up and oxygen storage at least for two days,” said a senior health official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shah-reviews-prep-mamata-questions-fund-allocation-101621881967678.html
25-05-2021||India||Why defence min chaired the GoM on Class 12 exams||New Delhi Defence minister Rajnath Singh was handpicked by Prime Minister Narendra Modi last week to head the group of ministers (GoM) looking into the feasibility of conducting Class 12 examinations because of his stature as the government’s senior-most minister and cross-party acceptance, HT has learnt after speaking to two senior government officials. The GoM also comprises information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar and women and child development minister Smriti Irani, both former education ministers. Singh chaired a meeting on Sunday attended by education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’, Irani, Prakash Javadekar. Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) officials, education ministers of all states, education secretaries, and chairpersons of the state examination boards.“It is an issue in which the Prime Minister himself is involved,’’ said Nishank. “It involves so many students in the country and so the PM asked Rajnathji also to sit, shows just how important this matter is for us,” he added. A decision on the issue is expected by June 1.One of the officials quoted above said PM Modi chose Singh after consultations because he wanted not only his senior-most minister but also someone who had experience in this area.Singh first became education minister in 1991 when the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) formed its first government in Uttar Pradesh. Singh held the portfolio for two years and in 1992, brought in the anti-copying act that made cheating a non-bailable offence and allowed police to come into examination halls to conduct raids.“The biggest concern for the government was that it should be attended by all states,’’ said a second official. ``Rajnath Singh has great acceptance across party lines and that’s another reason why he was chosen. In seniority, he is the topmost minister.’’Both the officials quoted above said choosing Singh had paid off as all Opposition party ministers attended the event and the meeting reached a broad consensus of holding the board exams, albeit truncated. Even Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia, who had objections, listed them cordially.Nishank’s office said fielding Singh didn’t undermine the education minister, who is yet to fully recover from Covid. “On this issue of exams, the PM previously held a meeting so there is no question of us chairing when Rajnathji is there,’’ said an official from Nishank’s office.The official pointed out that Singh and Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren, who holds the state education portfolio, both praised Nishank’s initiative to conduct this process even though he was ill.At Sunday’s meeting, Singh’s intervention was limited to telling all attendees to speak briefly so that they wouldn’t go over time. In his concluding remarks, he told all states to give their opinion in writing, which is expected to be collated in a day or two, before the government arrives at its final decision.Singh was also the behind-the-scenes negotiator for the government during the farmer protests earlier this year. While commerce minister Piyush Goyal and agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar were officially speaking to the farmers, Singh was meeting with key farmer leaders at his residence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-defence-min-chaired-the-gom-on-class-12-exams-101621881848693.html
