26-05-2021||India||Time at toll plazas should not exceed 10 seconds, says NHAI||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) on Wednesday said it has issued guidelines to ensure service time of not more than 10 seconds per vehicle even during peak hours at the toll plazas along national highways.“The new set of guidelines will also ensure seamless flow of traffic at the toll plazas by not allowing vehicles to queue up more than 100 metres. Although in most of the toll plazas, there is no waiting time after mandatory 100% FASTag, even then if there is a queue of waiting vehicles of more than 100 metres due to some reason, the vehicles will be allowed to pass without paying toll till the queue comes within 100 meters from the toll booth. For this purpose, a yellow line at a distance of 100 meters from the toll booth will be marked in each toll lane. This is to inculcate further sense of accountability in toll plaza operators,” NHAI said in a statement.NHAI said since it transitioned to 100% cashless tolling from mid February 2021, the overall FASTag usage in NHAI Toll Plazas has reached 96%.“Keeping in view the growing Electronic Toll Collection (ETC) penetration in the country, it has been emphasized to have a new design and construct the upcoming toll plazas as per traffic projections for next 10 years to have an efficient toll collection system,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/time-at-toll-plazas-should-not-exceed-10-seconds-says-nhai-101622053755302.html
26-05-2021||India||Gujarat CM announces ₹500-crore relief package for farmers affected by Tauktae||Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani on Wednesday announced a relief package of ₹500 crore for farmers who lost their horticulture and summer crops due to cyclone Tauktae which ravaged the coastal parts of the state last week. One of the most powerful cyclones to hit the western coast in recent times, Tauktae, which made a landfall on the Gujarat coast on May 17 and triggered high-speed winds and rainfall, had destroyed crops in 2 lakh hectares in 86 talukas spread across nine districts of the state, as per official estimates.“Cyclone Tauktae, which triggered wind speed up to 220 kmph, had destroyed crops in Amreli, Gir Somnath, Bhavnagar, Junagadh and Botad districts of the Saurashtra region. It had also affected crops in South Gujarat districts of Navsari, Surat, Valsad and Bharuch,” Rupani said after a core committee meeting held to decided on a relief package for the affected farmers. “Horticulture and summer crops were destroyed in 2 lakh hectares in 86 talukas of these nine districts. The government had initiated a survey (for damage assessment) which will be completed by Thursday,” he said. Under the ₹500 crore package, the state government has decided to give a financial assistance of ₹1 lakh per hectare (up to to 2 hectares) to horticulture farmers whose plants have been completely uprooted. If the damage is over 33 per cent, ₹30,000 per hectare will be given to such farmers for 2 hectares, Rupani said. The main horticulture crops that have faced destruction in the cyclone are mango, chikoo, lemon, coconut and guava. For summer crops, farmers who have faced damage of more than 33 per cent will be paid a compensation of ₹20,000 per hectare (up to 2 hectares), he said. The compensation amount will be directly credited into the bank account of beneficiary farmers a week after the survey is completed by May 27, the CM said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-cm-announces-rs-500-crore-relief-package-for-farmers-affected-by-tauktae-101622049250183.html
26-05-2021||India||Former Bengal CM Buddhadeb Bhattacharya, wife stable, says Kolkata hospital||Former Bengal chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharya, 77, who was admitted to a private hospital in south Kolkata on Tuesday afternoon with Covid-19, is stable, the hospital authorities said in a bulletin at 9 pm on Wednesday. His wife, Mira Bhattacharya, 71, who was also admitted on Tuesday evening following a panic attack, is also stable. The former CM and his wife both tested positive for Covid-19 on May 18. Mira Bhattacharya was admitted to Woodlands Hospital that day. She was released on Monday but had to be admitted again the next day, hours after her husband was brought to the hospital. The former CM was being treated at home till his oxygen saturation level dropped below 90%. He is on non-invasive ventilator. A panel of seven doctors has been formed for his treatment. Wednesday night’s bulletin said Bhattacharya’s oxygen level in blood had reached 93% with support. “He is presently conscious, alert and talking sensibly. His blood pressure is stable,” said the bulletin. Bhattacharya was fed orally. His Interleukin-6 level has improved significantly, the bulletin added. Bhattacharya, one of the most senior leaders of the CPI (M), is a patient of Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD). He could rarely leave home in the last few years. In October last year, Bhattacharya was in the same hospital for six days. He was admitted in a critical condition with symptoms such as breathlessness and low oxygen count in blood. He was put on ventilation. However, his condition improved quickly. Bhattacharya tested negative for Covid-19 in October.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-bengal-cm-buddhadeb-bhattacharya-wife-stable-says-kolkata-hospital-101622051234533.html
26-05-2021||India||6 cases of Mucormycosis seen in Himachal Pradesh so far: Officials||Six cases of black fungus or mucormycosis have been detected in Himachal Pradesh so far, officials said on Wednesday.The state's first case was reported on May 20 from Hamirpur district. Black fungus was detected near the nose of a woman from the district's Khagar area, they said.Three other cases were reported from Kangra and two from Solan, the officials said.Mucormycosis is caused by a group of moulds known as mucormycetes present naturally in the environment. It spreads through the nose and affects other parts of the body such as the eyes.People whose immunity has been weakened due to Covid, diabetes, kidney disease, liver or cardiac disorders, age-related issues, or those on medication for auto-immune diseases like rheumatoid arthritis are more likely to contract mucormycosis.If such patients are administered steroids, their immunity weakens further, allowing the fungus to thrive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-cases-of-mucormycosis-seen-in-himachal-pradesh-so-far-officials-101622049926210.html
26-05-2021||India||Fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi apprehended in Dominica: Report||Mehul Choksi, the fugitive diamantaire who went missing in Antigua, has been apprehended in neighbouring Caribbean island of Dominica, local media reported on Wednesday. The reports in Antiguan media said that Choksi is in the custody of the Criminal Investigation Department (CID).The police in Antigua had intensified the search for Choksi after he was reported missing by family members. They requested international police coordination agency Interpol to issue a global alert.Choksi, who has taken the citizenship of Antigua and Barbuda, was last seen on Sunday evening after heading to a popular local restaurant for dinner, according to his lawyer. He left in a car, which was later recovered by Antigua Police.An Interpol Yellow Notice was issued against Choksi after a request from the Antiguan Police. The notice is issued by the Interpol to track missing persons.The efforts are on to hand him over to the Royal Police Force of Antigua and Barbuda, the local media reports said.Choksi is wanted in a ₹13,500 crore loan fraud in Punjab National Bank (PNB). The bank in 2018 alleged that a few rogue employees had issued fake bank guarantees over several years to help jewellery groups - controlled by Choksi and his nephew Nirav Modi - raise funds in foreign credit.Modi and Choksi left India before the fraud came to light but have denied any wrongdoing and have said in letters and statements they were innocent.Modi was arrested in London in 2019 and is fighting extradition to India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fugitive-diamantaire-mehul-choksi-apprehended-in-dominica-report-101622050637573.html
26-05-2021||India||Centre gets rebuttals from Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh on vaccine wastage data||Ranchi/Raipur: Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh on Wednesday rebutted the Union health ministry that blamed the two states for wasting one-third of the Covid-19 vaccines made available to them, saying the real wastage numbers were well below the national average.The rejoinders came a day after the Union health ministry counted the two states among the five that have wasted the largest proportion of vaccines, prompting critics of the two opposition-ruled states to mount an offensive against them.Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren was the first to send out his rebuttal on Wednesday.“As per total vaccine doses availability with Govt in Jharkhand till today, the current vaccine wastage proportion is only 4.65%,” chief minister Soren tweeted on Wednesday afternoon. His office said the state wasn’t able to update the entire data to the central Co-Win server/platform due to technical difficulties and glitches.As per total vaccine doses availability with Govt on Jharkhand till today, the current Vaccine Wastage proportion is only 4.65%. Vaccination data could not be fully updated to the central Co-Win Server/ Platform due to technical difficulties/glitches & the updation is in process. https://t.co/w3QXPFnKFR pic.twitter.com/uBFJXCkteiIn a detailed statement on Union health minister Harsh Vardhan’s meeting with states to review the progress of vaccination on Tuesday, the Union health ministry nudged states to reduce vaccine wastage.“Whereas States has been urged repeatedly, to keep vaccine wastage below 1%, many States such as Jharkhand (37.3%), Chhattisgarh (30.2%), Tamil Nadu (15.5%), Jammu and Kashmir (10.8%), Madhya Pradesh (10.7%) are reporting much higher wastage than the national average (6.3%),” the Centre’s statement said.By Wednesday evening, Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel’s office also put out his rejoinder on Twitter.“This data is incorrect. We have already written to @MoHFW_INDIA (Union health ministry) regarding the same. Our team is in touch with @MoHFW_INDIA to resolve the data issues,” he said on Twitter.#ClarificationThis data is incorrect. We have already written to @MoHFW_INDIA regarding the same.Our team is in touch with @MoHFW_INDIA to resolve the data issues.Attaching here the actual percentage of vaccine wastage and the letter written by us. https://t.co/zCSaoLovL0 pic.twitter.com/vqhKGyxLFXBaghel also put out the letter sent to Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan last week after a reference was made to high wastage in Chhattisgarh at an earlier review meeting on 21 May.“The fact is that the percentage of wastage of the vaccines funded by the Centre is 0.81, while in the direct state procurement category, it is 0.63 per cent,” a statement issued by the Chhattisgarh government said.In a letter that asked the health ministry to update its data, Chhattisgarh health secretary Dr Alok Shukla said the state had received 68,40,210 vaccine doses from the Centre, of which, 61,67,632 shots were administered, while 55,608 were wasted, which is 0.81 per cent, the release stated.“Apart from this, the state government had received 7,97,110 doses for the 18-44 age category, of which 6,66,101 had been administered, while 5,039 shots were wasted, which comes to 0.63 per cent,” the release stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-gets-a-rebuttal-from-jharkhand-chhattisgarh-on-vaccine-wastage-data-101622049855122.html
26-05-2021||India||Share info on compliance with new rules: Govt tells social media firms||The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology has asked all social media intermediaries to share information regarding compliance with the new guidelines by furnishing details of their compliance officer, nodal contact person, resident grievance officer and physical contact address in India. “Government through a separate notification has also prescribed that a social media intermediary having fifty lakh (5 million) registered users in India will be considered a Significant Social Media Intermediary (SSMI),” the government said in its communication to the companies. “Additional set of due diligence for SSMI are being administered by this ministry. The additional due diligence required from SSMI have come into effect today, at the conclusion of three additional months given to SSMIs.”The government asked the social media intermediaries to preferably share the details by the end of Wednesday. Most of the prominent companies, including social media giants Facebook and Twitter, instant messaging application WhatsApp and tech giant Google are yet to comply with the new rules, the deadline for which lapsed on May 25. WhatsApp has a resident grievance officer, but it is yet to appoint a compliance officer. Twitter and Facebook too have not appointed anyone yet. Facebook on Tuesday said it aims to comply with the new guidelines but indicated there were unresolved issues. Google has advertised for the post of a compliance officer and in a statement said that it “respects India’s legislative process”. “We respect India’s legislative process and have a long history of responding to government requests to remove content where the content violates the local law or our product policies. We realize that our work in keeping our platforms secure is never done and we will continue to refine our existing approaches, and evolve our policies and be as transparent as possible about how we make decisions,” a Google spokesperson said.The government has further asked social media intermediaries to specify why they may not be considered a significant one by providing the number of registered users on the platform. “The Government reserves the right to seek any additional information, as may be permitted within these Rules and the IT Act.” Under part four of the guidelines, the intermediaries are required to appoint compliance officers, “responsible for ensuring compliance with the Act and rules” and be “liable in any proceedings relating to any relevant third-party information, data or communication link made available or hosted by that intermediary where he fails to ensure that such intermediary observes due diligence while discharging its duties under the Act”.Intermediaries are also required to appoint nodal contact persons for 24x7 coordination with law enforcement agencies and resident grievance officers.Koo, the Indian social media app, has announced it has complied with the new requirements and appointed a resident grievance officer, chief compliance officer, and nodal contact officer.HT on Monday reported that officials warned of stern action if the companies did not adhere to the deadline. They added none of the companies have informed the government of the compliance or shared details of the officers they were meant to have appointed on their websites.The new policy also includes bringing digital news publishers under the ambit of Section 69(A) of the Information Technology (IT) Act. The provision empowers the government to order the blocking of access to content that is considered a threat to public order. An officer, who will head an inter-ministerial committee at the apex of the three-tier self-regulatory system, can also issue this order under emergency circumstances where the companies will not be given a chance for explanation. The committee will have to meet within 48 hours to ratify the emergency block. News media publishers and over the top (or streaming) such as Netflix and Hotstar, will fall under the ambit of the ministry of information and broadcasting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/share-info-on-compliance-with-new-rules-govt-tells-social-media-firms-101622047874639.html
26-05-2021||India||‘Sense of national security widened as a consequence of Covid-19’: S Jaishankar||External affairs minister (EAM) Dr S Jaishankar said on Wednesday that global cooperation is the only way out for countries fighting the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.Jaishankar is on a five-day visit to the United States, to meet senior officials and talk about Covid-related cooperation between the two countries, which are severely affected by the pandemic.In a conversation with former United States National Security Advisor (NSA) General HR McMaster, Jaishankar said the second wave of the viral disease proved to be devastating in India due to which cases and deaths were much greater than before.Also Read| Quad members step up Covid-19 support for countries in neighbourhood“At the end of the day, when you have a global challenge of this scale, the only way out is global cooperation and global mitigation. We (India) have been dealing with the challenges of hospitalisations, oxygen and the US is well aware of these issues,” Jaishankar further said.Pointing out that India received international support and solidarity during the ongoing Covid-19 crisis, the external affairs minister said it is crucial for countries to help each other out.“Our sense of national security has widened as a consequence of the pandemic. Whether it is medicines, vaccines and last year it was masks and PPEs,” Dr Jaishankar told General HR McMaster.On being asked what vision does India have about a free and open Indo-Pacific, the EAM said the seamlessness of the region is evident be it politics, economics or trade and the Indo-Pacific is central to the prospects and welfare of the world. Those countries who believe the region should be kept open and the decisions should be taken on the basis of rules or international order, should conduct them in a way in which collective interests are best served.Also Read| Quad and an opportunity to define India’s economic statecraftDuring the interaction, General HR McMaster also asked Jaishankar about how India viewed the threat from China’s policies.To this, Jaishankar said there are several ways of looking at the threat from China. “One is the kind of an inter-state analysis. There are consequences in international relations if there is a sharp increase of power of one particular state. Another way is that different countries have different challenges. In international relations, it is very common for countries to cooperate wherever their interests converge.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sense-of-national-security-widened-as-a-consequence-of-covid-19-s-jaishankar-101622045095397.html
26-05-2021||India||In call with 'dear friend' Macron, PM Modi thanks France for help in Covid-19 fight||Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted on Wednesday he spoke to "dear friend," French President Emmanuel Macron, thanking him for France's "prompt" assistance in India's fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19)."Spoke to my dear friend @EmmanuelMacron. I thanked him for France's prompt assistance to India's Covid-19 response. We also discussed bilateral, regional and global issues, including cooperation in climate action and Indo-Pacific," PM Modi tweeted.Spoke to my dear friend President @EmmanuelMacron. I thanked him for France’s prompt assistance to India’s COVID-19 response. We also discussed bilateral, regional and global issues, including cooperation in climate action and Indo-Pacific.Further, in a press release, the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said, "The leaders expressed satisfaction at the positive outcomes of the recently-concluded India-EU leaders' meeting. Both the leaders agreed that announcements regarding resumption of negotiations for balanced and comprehensive free trade and investment agreements, and India-EU connectivity partnerships were welcome steps.""The two leaders expressed satisfaction at the depth and strength that the India-France Strategic Partnership has acquired in recent years and agreed to continue working closely together in the post-Covid era," the release further said, adding that Prime Minister Modi "reiterated his invitation to President Macron to visit India as soon as conditions permit."France is among several countries which rushed relief material to India, as the country battled a devastating second wave of Covid-19 in April, recording well over 400,000 fresh infections and more than 4,000 related fatalities in a single-day, the highest anywhere since the pandemic began in the first half of 2020. In the last few days, the daily cases have come down, though these are still above the 200,000-mark, while the daily death toll continues to be near or more than 4,000. In the last 24 hours, India’s Covid-19 tally rose by 208,921 cases, while the death toll was up by 4,157, as per the Union health ministry’s data on Wednesday morning. The infection tally is at 27,157,795, including 311,388 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-speaks-with-french-president-thanks-for-help-in-india-s-covid-fight-101622044838458.html
26-05-2021||India||Bengali news channel scribe wanted for abduction in Kolkata; 3 held||The detective department of the Kolkata Police has arrested three men and is looking for a few more suspects, including a journalist with a newly launched Bengali news channel, in connection with an abduction in which the accused posed as officers of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to collect a ransom of ₹15 lakh from a family, police said. The alleged crime took place in the Kasba area of south Kolkata on Monday. Swarup Roy and Pratik Sarkar, who posed as CBI officers, and Rajesh Adhikari, the driver of the vehicle used in the abduction were arrested. The news channel has issued a statement saying Avishek Sengupta, another prime suspect, was on probation and he has been suspended. A homemaker, Swity Nath Roy, alleged in her police complaint on Tuesday that her husband Ajit Roy was taken away from home by some men who claimed to be CBI officers. The family started getting ransom calls after the alleged kidnappers left with Roy. The callers initially demanded ₹2 crore but finally settled for ₹15 lakh. A friend of the family gave the money to the kidnappers and Roy was released, said Murlidhar Sharma, joint commissioner of police (crime). Naming Sengupta in its statement, the channel said, “As an organization with zero tolerance towards such abhorrent criminal acts, the said probationer was immediately suspended on Tuesday evening pending a thorough probe into the matter.” The channel also said Sengupta was untraceable and could not be reached over the telephone. Sharma said the police are conducting raids to nab more suspects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengali-news-channel-scribe-wanted-for-abduction-in-kolkata-3-held-101622044274410.html
26-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: IMA writes to PM Modi over Ramdev's remarks on allopathic drugs and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.IMA writes to PM Modi on Ramdev statement, says clear-cut case of seditionThe Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Wednesday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to take "action under the sedition charges” against Ramdev over his statements questioning the efficacy of allopathy medicines and doctors and to stop the "misinformation campaign on vaccination” against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) by the yoga guru. Read moreUttarakhand’s global tender for Covid vaccine draws a blank; deadline extendedThe Uttarakhand government has extended the deadline for Covid-19 vaccine manufacturers to respond to its global tender to buy the life-saving shots by about a week due to the absence of a response from any manufacturer. Read moreHaryana: Law to recover for damage to property during protests comes into effectA law which allows the authorities to recover compensation from violent protesters who cause damage to property has come into effect in Haryana. Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij said on Wednesday that the Act was notified by the state government earlier this month. Read moreRussia seeks to outmuscle US in Arctic with northern military base"The enemy shall not pass," exclaims commander Ivan Glushchenko, standing in the glistening white snow that surrounds an ultra-modern Russian military base in the heart of the Arctic, the site of Moscow's stand-off with NATO. Read moreSanjay Dutt is 'honoured' as he receives golden visa for the UAE, see picsSanjay Dutt took to Twitter on Wednesday and revealed that he has received the golden visa for the United Arab Emirates (UAE). Sharing a picture with the passport in his hand, Sanjay was seen posing with major general Mohammed Al Marri, director general of General Directorate Of Residency and Foreigners Affairs in Dubai (GDRFA) Dubai. Read moreNow you can hide your like count on Facebook, InstagramInstagram, back in July last year, had started testing a feature that would enable users to hide their like count. Shortly after in September 2020, Facebook had started testing a similar functionality on its platform. Now, nearly a year later, the company has rolled out this feature to its users. Read more'Sachin, Dhoni were useful at their 50%, we don't have that calibre': Raja slams Pak's reluctance of testing new playersFormer Pakistan batsman Ramiz Raja has voiced strong opinions on the cricket system in Pakistan and called the board and management out for their reluctance to try out new players and give more chances to youngsters. Read moreWatch| WhatsApp sues Modi govt: Diverting attention from privacy policy row?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-ima-writes-to-pm-over-ramdev-s-remarks-on-allopathic-drugs-101622041423403.html
26-05-2021||India||Cyclone Yaas' impact on telecom minimal, 6 crore bulk SMSes sent to alert people: Govt||The ministry of communications said on Wednesday that Cyclone Yaas' impact on telecommunications services in worst-affected Odisha and West Bengal was minimal. The ministry credited this to the combined efforts of telecom service providers (TSPs) and infrastructure providers coordinated by the department of telecommunications (DoT).Also Read: Cyclone Yaas leaves a trail of destruction but strengthens monsoon winds"The combined efforts have ensured that restoration of the damaged network has commenced and even the minimal outages in the telecom networks will be restored very quickly," the ministry said in release.Watch: 1 crore people affected by Cyclone Yaas, says Mamata BanerjeeThe ministry said that review and restoration meetings were held before the landfall of the cyclone, on Wednesday morning and at 6pm today. The telecom services providers and infrastructure providers participated in the meeting and gave feedback, the ministry added.It also said that senior officers of state-run Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL) were designated at district level who coordinated with district collectors, while senior DoT officers and TSP functionaries coordinated with the state nodal officers at state capitals.The release further said that the common alert protocol of the DoT was extensively used by state disaster management authorities (SDMAs) in West Bengal, Odisha and Andhra Pradesh to disseminate the cyclone alert messages free of cost. "A total of more than 6 crore bulk SMS/messages were sent in local languages alerting local residents. Of these 3.87 crore were in West Bengal, 2.43 crore in Odisha and 36.4 lacs in Andhra Pradesh," the ministry said."In addition for the first time Voice Alert Messages were also sent, facilitated by Department of Telecommunications with the help of Telecom Service Providers(TSPs) using Outbound Dialler (OBD) infrastructure. More than 60 lakh subscribers were reached through OBD in local languages (36.5 lacs in West Bengal and 21.5 lacs in Odisha ). TSPs have undertaken this outreach activity free of cost," it further said.Cyclone Yaas, packing winds of up to 130-145 kmph, whiplashed the country's eastern coast on Wednesday, dumping heavy rain, damaging houses and farmlands.Thick sheets of rain blurred the vast coastline, as the cyclone made landfall around 9am near Dhamra port in Odisha, with surging waters swamping the mud-and-thatch houses in the low-lying areas, where a massive evacuation drive has been undertaken to move more than 20 lakh people to safety.The storm, which had weakened in the afternoon, had left the coastal states on edge, with West Bengal government claiming that at least one crore people have been affected by the calamity thus far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-yaas-impact-on-telecom-minimal-6-cr-smses-sent-to-alert-people-govt-101622042248111.html
26-05-2021||India||‘Seek help from someone who knows Math’: Chhattisgarh minister refutes Centre’s claim of vaccine wastage||Chhattisgarh health minister TS Singh Deo on Wednesday rejected the Centre’s claim that the state was reporting a high wastage of Covid-19 vaccines. Singh Deo said the Centre created a new portal and was gathering data directly from vaccination centres and not the state government. “There is delay from vaccination centres in providing data which the Centre is calling vaccine wastage,” he told news agency ANI.Data from the Union health ministry on Wednesday showed that Chhattisgarh reported 30.2% vaccine wastage, which is much higher than the national average of 6.3%. States such as Jharkhand, Tamil Nadu, Jammu and Kashmir and Madhya Pradesh also saw vaccine wastage in double figures, the ministry’s data added.Also Read| Jharkhand not vaccine waster; Hemant Soren's office blames Co-Win glitchThe minister told ANI that the Congress led-state government can send its own team for an investigation into the matter adding the Centre’s claims about the wastage are politically motivated.Earlier, in a series of tweets, the state health minister explained that Chhattisgarh is one of the leading states in administering vaccines to beneficiaries and the inoculation done for healthcare, frontline workers and people above 45 years will soon achieve the 100% mark.In Chhattisgarh, vaccination of Healthcare & frontline workers or the age group above 45 years is soon to achieve the 100% mark.We are performing notably well in vaccinating the age group of 18-45 too. With such stats the cited wastage has to be imaginary, far from truth. (2/5)“Out of the vaccines supplied by the central government for healthcare and frontline workers and for 45+ years old, only 0.95% has been wasted and the vaccines procured by us directly for the 18-45 years old age group only 0.29% has been wasted. This is far better than the national average of 6%,” Deo said in a subsequent tweet.He reminded the Centre about the review meeting chaired by Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on May 21, where he agreed that there was a technical error in the portal which is showing inflating figures of vaccine wastage. “It was assured that the Centre will coordinate with States to resolve the issue & make the correct figures public.”Also Read| India administers 200 million Covid vaccine doses, 2nd-fastest country after USUrging the Centre to focus more on procuring vaccine doses rather than playing petty politics with states, TS Singh Deo also tweeted that the Centre should do a better job in finding vaccine wastage figures and seek help from someone who knows math.Nearly 7 million beneficiaries have been vaccinated in Chhattisgarh till now of which 5,830,242 have received the first dose while 1,095,115 have been inoculated with both doses. The state on Tuesday registered another low of 3,506 new cases and 77 more deaths. The Covid-19 positivity rate has come down to 5%, chief minister Bhupesh Baghel said on Tuesday and urged the state’s public to be cautious and follow Covid-appropriate behaviour till the viral disease is completely eradicated.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centres-claim-about-vaccine-wastage-politically-motivated-c-garh-minister-101622042232426.html
26-05-2021||India||Azam Khan's condition deteriorates, shifted to ICU again||Veteran Samajwadi Party (SP) leader Azam Khan was again shifted to the intensive care unit (ICU) of critical care medicine department of Medanta Hospital in Lucknow on Wednesday after his condition deteriorated. Azam Khan was admitted to Medanta on May 9 after testing positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Sitapur prison on April 30 along with his son Abdullah Khan, 30."The SP leader is now being treated for fibrosis and cavity in his lungs in the ICU and is on 5-litre-per-minute oxygen support," said director of Medanta Dr Rakesh Kapoor. "A team of critical care experts is keeping a close eye on his condition," he added.Dr Kapoor also said that the condition of Azam Khan's son is stable.Earlier, the hospital had issued a statement in which it said that the treatment of the 72-year-old Rampur MP is being done under severe infection disease protocol.RS Yadav, the jailer of Sitapur prison, had said that Azam Khan underwent Covid-19 tests after complaining of fever and cough. "Initially, the rapid antigen was done and later the samples were sent for the RT-PCR test, the reports of which came positive," he had further said.Azam Khan, along with his son and wife Tazeen Fatma, has been in jail since February last year in connection with various cases of land grabbing, encroachment and others.The Allahabad high court, in December, granted bail to Tazeen Fatma in all 34 cases registered against her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/azam-khan-s-condition-deteriorates-shifted-to-icu-again-101622040964619.html
26-05-2021||India||Bank holidays in June 2021: Banks to remain closed for 9 days, see complete list here||Banks in India would remain closed for nine days in the month of June, including the weekend holidays, according to the holiday calendar of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). The RBI’s calendar also showed that the schedule, except those for the weekends, would be different across various cities in the country.The three main holidays include, YMA Day/Raja Sankranti on June 15, Guru Hargobind Ji’s birthday on June 25 and Remna Ni on June 30, declared as holidays under negotiable instruments act. Apart from this, on the second and the fourth Saturdays on June 12 and 26 respectively and on the four Sundays on June 6, 13, 20 and 27, banks would remain closed in all places due to the weekend.Here is the list of holidays and the cities where the banks would be closed for them -June 15 (YMA Day/Raja Sankranti) - Banks would be closed in Aizawl in Mizoram and Odisha’s Bhubaneswar on June 15 (Tuesday).June 25 (Guru Hargobind Ji’s birthday) - The day has been declared a holiday in Jammu, Srinagar, according to the RBI calendar.June 30 (Remna Ni) - This will be the second holiday in Aizawl, Mizoram, in June 2021 on the occasion of Remna Ni.In the month of May, there were six days which were declared as holiday under negotiable instruments act across various cities on May 1 (Maharashtra Din/May Day or Labour Day), May 7 (Jumat-ul-Vida), May 10 (Shab-i-Qadr), May 13 (Ramzan-Id (Id-Ul-Fitr) (Shawal-1)), May 14 (Bhagvan Shree Parshuram Jayanti/Ramjan-Eid (Eid-UI-Fitra)/Basava Jayanti/Akshaya Tritiya) and May 26 (Buddha Pournima), the RBI holiday calendar also showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bank-holidays-in-june-2021-banks-to-remain-closed-for-9-days-see-complete-list-here-101622037798488.html
26-05-2021||India||Tamil Nadu CM Stalin targets Centre over supply of vaccines to states||Chief minister M K Stalin on Wednesday hit out at the Centre over allocation of vaccines to states and said not only Tamil Nadu but several states faced constraints and to tackle the situation, the government has gone in for global bids to procure vaccines. The state government has been continuously requesting the Centre to increase allocation of vaccines and as of now, an inventory of 3,14,000 vaccine doses meant for the 45-plus age group is available, he said. For the 18-44 age group people, 12.85 lakh vaccine doses have been received and 11.50 lakh doses would be arriving and work is on at full swing to vaccinate high-risk category people and workers of large industries, he said. The purchase of vaccine for those in 18-44 age bracket is done by the state government. As regards supply of adequate doses of vaccines to states by the Centre, he told reporters that not only Tamil Nadu, but several states faced constraints. Only to tackle this situation, Tamil Nadu has floated global tenders for procurement of vaccines. "We also have plan to manufacture vaccines in Tamil Nadu," he said and recalled his visit to the Centre's HLL Biotech at Chengelpet near here on Tuesday. The facility "has been made non-operational" and the state government would continue to prevail upon the Centre to get it working, he said. After inaugurating a vaccination drive at a village in nearby Tiruvallur district, Stalin said the virus spread in cities including Chennai has been witnessing a phased decline and the situation would improve further. After his government took over on May 7, about 78,000 vaccine doses were being administered on an average as against the previous 61,000 doses right from day one of vaccination on January 16, he said. Also, vaccine wastage has been brought down to one per cent during the past two weeks while it was about six per cent before, he added. Asked on extension of the week long intense lockdown, he said though there is satisfaction to an extent vis-a-vis the curbs and correspondent fall in fresh cases, there is no "complete satisfaction" yet. Apparently, he indicated that the lockdown could be extended beyond May 31. A two-week lockdown commenced on May 10 in Tamil Nadu with some relaxations and later, the government extended the lockdown for one more week from May 24 with more curbs. The additional restrictions between May 24 and 31 include closure of vegetable shops and provision stores, which were allowed earlier to work between 6 AM and 10 AM. A 'full stop ' was not placed to the first wave of the virus last year and the result was the second wave, the CM claimed. He exuded confidence of full containment of the second wave of Covid-19 in Tamil Nadu. Arch-rival AIADMK was in power (2016-21) till April and the Chief Minister was K Palaniswami, when the first wave of the pandemic broke out in 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-cm-stalin-targets-centre-over-supply-of-vaccines-to-states-101622035193580.html
26-05-2021||India||WhatsApp’s refusal to comply with new rules a clear act of defiance: Centre||The Centre on Wednesday said that WhatsApp’s “last minute challenge” to the new social media and intermediary guidelines, all clauses of which came into effect on May 25, is a “clear act of defiance” and an “unfortunate attempt to keep the guidelines from coming into effect”.“WhatsApp’s challenge, at the very last moment, and despite having sufficient time and opportunity available during the consultation process and after the rules were enacted, to the Intermediary Guidelines is an unfortunate attempt to prevent the same from coming into effect,” the ministry said in a statement. “Any operations being run in India are subject to the law of the land. WhatsApp’s refusal to comply with the guidelines is a clear act of defiance of a measure whose intent can certainly not be doubted,” it added. A ministry official familiar with the matter said that the sections wherein the government is likely to seek the information are clearly defined in the new guidelines. “It is only in cases where serious crime has taken place, or are in the interest of national security, that such information will be sought and that too with the approval of the home secretary,” the official said. The government in its statement said that an order to trace first originator, under Rule 4(2) of the said guidelines, shall be passed “only for the purposes of prevention, investigation, punishment etc. of inter alia an offence relating to sovereignty, integrity and security of India, public order incitement to an offence relating to rape, sexually explicit material or child sexual abuse material punishable with imprisonment for not less than five years”.It highlighted how WhatsApp messages have been circulated when it came to cases of mob lynchings. “It is in public interest that who started the mischief leading to such crime must be detected and punished. We cannot deny as to how in cases of mob lynching and riots etc. repeated WhatsApp messages are circulated and recirculated whose content are already in public domain. Hence the role of who originated the message is very important,” the statement said. The government’s response came barely hours after the instant messaging platform moved Delhi high court against the new guidelines, stating that the rule to trace the first originator violates the fundamental right to privacy, is “unconstitutional” and “illegal”. HT on Tuesday reported that WhatsApp, Facebook and Twitter were among the significant social media intermediaries that were yet to comply with the government’s new guidelines and make three key appoints — that of a compliance officer, a resident grievance officer and a nodal contact person. The new guidelines state that any intermediary with 5 million or more users may lose its safe habour status if it fails to observe them. “As a significant social media intermediary, WhatsApp seeks a safe harbour protection as per the provisions of the Information Technology Act. However, in a befuddling act, they seek to avoid responsibility and refuse to enact the very steps which permit them a safe harbour provision,” the government statement added. The government also stated that while it respects the right to privacy and has no intention of violating it, no Fundamental Right, including the Right to Privacy, is absolute. “It is subject to reasonable restrictions. The requirements in the Intermediary Guidelines pertaining to the first originator of information are an example of such a reasonable restriction,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/whatsapps-refusal-to-comply-with-new-rules-a-clear-act-of-defiance-centre-101622035573915.html
26-05-2021||India||'He may still be here': Antigua police intensifies search for Mehul Choksi||Police in Antigua and Barbuda said they had intensified a search for fugitive Indian-born jeweller Mehul Choksi, who went missing on Sunday, and have requested international police coordination agency Interpol to issue a global alert.Indian federal police have filed fraud charges against Choksi, his nephew, Nirav Modi, and others in connection with their suspected involvement in fraudulent transactions that led to losses of about $2 billion for India's Punjab National Bank (PNB).PNB in 2018 alleged that a few rogue employees had issued fake bank guarantees over several years to help jewellery groups - controlled by Modi and Choksi - raise funds in foreign credit.Modi and Choksi left India before the fraud came to light but have denied any wrongdoing and have said in letters and statements they were innocent.Modi was arrested in London in 2019 and is fighting extradition to India. Choksi has been living in the Caribbean nation.Investigators have interviewed several relatives and associates of Choksi for information on his "sudden disappearance" and asked regional counterparts for assistance, the Royal Police Force of Antigua and Barbuda said in a statement late on Tuesday.Choksi was last seen on Sunday evening before leaving home in a car, which has since been recovered, the police said, in a notice seeking information from the public.The police said they had shared Choksi's details with Interpol for a "yellow notice", a global police alert for a missing person, to be circulated.Antiguan Prime Minister Gaston Browne told Parliament there was no reliable information to confirm that Choksi had left the country, according to a video posted by media outlet Antigua Newsroom."It is likely that he may still be here," Browne said, adding that Choksi was fighting two cases in the country relating to his extradition and his citizenship.Choksi's family members are worried and are co-operating with the investigation, his lawyer, Vijay Aggarwal, told Reuters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/he-may-still-be-here-antigua-police-intensifies-search-for-mehul-choksi-101622035332976.html
26-05-2021||India||Backlog deaths raise questions over actual Covid-19 fatalities in Uttarakhand||Uttarakhand has reported over 3,000 Covid-19 deaths over the last 25 days with officials saying they include many fatalities that were not reported earlier and have raised questions on the exact toll from the second wave of the pandemic.According to official data, 342 of 893 deaths reported between May 17-May 24 were added to the tally as hospitals had not reported them earlier. A Haridwar hospital alone had not reported at least 65 deaths to the state Covid-19 Control Room and prompted the state health department to issue notice to it. The department has directed all the hospitals to report all Covid-related deaths within 24 hours as per the protocol.Officials said hospitals have since then been reporting the backlog of deaths. The fatalities are now being added to the official data on daily basis.Also Read | How Odisha’s model of disaster preparedness came into beingOn May 22, Rishikesh’s All India Institute of Medical Science reported 20 backlog deaths. A day earlier, Roorkee’s Military Hospital reported 24 such fatalities. The Rudrapur District Hospital delayed reporting 267 Covid-19 deaths from April 14- May 13.Avinash Khanna, an additional chief medical officer, said the dedicated Covid Care centre at the district hospital provided the information only when the authorities there were told that a case will be lodged against them if they did not.Data related to positive, negative test reports as well as deaths of patients are sent daily to the state Covid Control Room in Dehradun. Khanna said the daily positive and negative report updates too were hit when one of the data entry operators tested positive for Covid. He added now the work is on to report the backlog of deaths.A health official, who did not wish to be named, said had the Control Room shown the strictness, question marks over the data would not have been raised.Also Read | The economic aftermath of the pandemic’s second waveActivist Anoop Nautiyal, who has been tracking the pandemic situation in the state, blamed callousness on part of the administration for the underreporting. He added the administration was not taking action against hospitals that are not reporting the deaths within 24 hours. “This is very unprofessional. In the fight against this severe pandemic, we cannot win against the virus if the data is not accurate and transparent. It is always sacrosanct as the policies are based on it. If this is not stopped, we will never come to know about the real picture.”Indian Medical Association national vice president DD Choudhury said if the hospitals are not reporting the exact deaths to the state health department, then that means the government is inefficient. “It is not that the government does not know what is going on in the hospitals especially the private ones right now. But it is not taking any stern action because some of the owners of those private hospitals have connections with high-ranking officials. And in some cases, senior government officials do not know the reality because their subordinates are hiding things from them,” said Choudhury.State health secretary Amit Negi said they have warned hospitals of strict action if they do not report the deaths to the state Covid-19 Control Room.A large number of hospitals that delayed reporting fatalities with the stipulated 24 hours are located in Haridwar, which has prompted the district administration to form three teams to monitor their management and deaths on daily basis. Haridwar district magistrate C Ravi Shankar said they too have issued a warning to hospitals. He added the three teams will also ensure the availability of medical oxygen and carry out physical verification of the Intensive Care Unit and Covid wards.Chief medical officer Shambu Nath Jha said in many cases hospital staffers contracted Covid-19 and this caused the delay in reporting the deaths. “We have directed every hospital to upload the data on the government portal within the time frame.”At least 9.1 million pilgrims visited Haridwar for the Mahakumbh this year, the event’s organisers said on April 29. The mega event was widely criticised for rampant violation of Covid-19 protocols and massive overcrowding during an alarming surge in cases. It coincided with an increase in Covid-19 cases and deaths in Uttarakhand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/backlog-deaths-raise-questions-over-actual-covid-19-fatalities-in-uttarakhand-101622034014014.html
26-05-2021||India||Odisha continues transporting oxygen amid Cyclone Yaas||The transportation of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) from Odisha remained unhindered even during the very severe cyclonic storm Yaas on Wednesday.According to an official release, four oxygen tankers were transported from Angul to Hyderabad and Visakhapatnam today, while two were transported from Jajpur to Berhampur and Bhubaneswar, under close supervision and escort from Odisha Police.As many as 263 Oxygen Expresses have completed their journey so far, including those carrying 680 MT from Odisha, West Bengal, and Jharkhand in the last 12 hours. A total of eight Oxygen Expresses have moved from the region.India Meteorological Department (IMD) Director General of Meteorology, Mrutyunjay Mohapatra said that the cyclone caused heavy to extremely heavy rain in Odisha in the past 24 hours and northern and coastal parts of the state are expected to receive heavy rainfall.The cyclone, estimated at 120-140 Km per hour wind speed made landfall around 9 am on Wednesday between Dhamra and Balasore in Odisha, Special Relief Commissioner PK Jena said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-continues-transporting-oxygen-amid-cyclone-yaas-101622032181484.html
26-05-2021||India||IMA writes to PM Modi on Ramdev statement, says clear-cut case of sedition||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Wednesday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to take "action under the sedition charges” against Ramdev over his statements questioning the efficacy of allopathy medicines and doctors and to stop the "misinformation campaign on vaccination” against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) by the yoga guru.“At this juncture, painfully we bring to your kind notice, the video claiming 10,000 doctors have died in spite of taking both the doses of the vaccine and lakhs of people have died due to allopathic medicine are circulating virally in the social media, as said by Mr. Ramdev, Owner of Patanjali products,” IMA said in its letter to PM Modi.Also read | HT Editorial: Not Ayurveda vs allopathyIMA was referring to a video of Ramdev in which he claimed that more than 10,000 doctors have died after getting two doses of the vaccine against the coronavirus disease.The country's medical association said that doctors follow the guidelines and protocols issued by the Union ministry of health and family welfare to treat millions of people. "If someone is claiming that the allopathic medicine has killed the people, it is an attempt to challenge the Ministry who has issued the protocol for treatment to us," it said.IMA in a letter to PM Modi, "Misinformation campaign on vaccination by Patanjali owner Ramdev should be stopped. In a video he claimed that 10,000 doctors & lakhs of people have died despite taking both doses of vaccine. Action under sedition charges should be taken against him." pic.twitter.com/kJ9inQQRJuAlso read | ‘If allopathy works...’: Now Ramdev has 25 questions for IMAIn the letter to PM Modi, the medical body said that “we have lost 753 doctors in the first wave and 513 in the second wave” of the pandemic as they served on the front line. “None in the first wave could receive the vaccine and the majority who had died in the second wave also couldn't take their vaccine for various reasons. Now deceitfully attributing 10000 people have died in spite of two doses of vaccination, is a deliberate move to stall the efforts of vaccination to reach our masses and it needs to be curtailed immediately,” it said.Also read | 'When allopathy doctors call Ayurveda pseudo-science': Ramdev to Harsh VardhanIt pointed out that IMA has time and again stated that its respects, acknowledges and compliments all systems of medicine, “especially our Indian system of Ayurvedic Medicine, as each system is helping our people differently. “We opposed certain drugs promoted without the approval of Ministry as a curative drug. We are pained to witness the great services rendered by nearly 10 lakh of modern medical doctors in the forefront to work with dedication to keep the mortality of our corona patients around 1 percent with the limited manpower and resources, which many developed countries couldn't achieve are ridiculed and called as a stupid system.”The body of doctors appealed to PM Modi to take appropriate action against those “viciously propagating the message of fear on vaccination” and challenging the government’s protocols for treatment for “their vested interest in their company products”. “This in our opinion is a clear-cut case of a sedition and such persons should be booked immediately without any delay under the charges of sedition. IMA is committed to serving with the government in this Covid-19 war,” it added.This comes after the Uttarakhand chapter of the top medical body sent a ₹1,000 crore defamation notice over his alleged statements against allopathy and "defaming" scientific medicine. Ramdev withdrew his statement on Sunday after receiving a strongly-worded letter from Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ima-writes-to-pm-modi-on-ramdev-statement-says-clear-cut-case-of-sedition-101622032544457.html
26-05-2021||India||Cyclone Yaas leaves a trail of destruction but strengthens monsoon winds||Very severe Cyclone, Yaas, made landfall about 25 to 30 km south of Balasore in Odisha on Wednesday morning, packing winds of 130 to 140 kmph gusting to 155 kmph, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).It weakened marginally immediately after landfall but continued to be a very severe cyclone for a couple of hours more and a severe cyclone with wind speed of 100 to 110 kmph gusting to 120 kmph over land by the evening. “Yaas did not intensify further because it was relatively closer to the coast, the vertical wind shear (change in wind direction and speed at different heights) was not favourable and the sea surface temperatures were slightly lower near the coast. It may have intensified further, if not for these factors,” said Sunitha Devi, in charge, cyclones at IMD.Yaas is likely to move north-northwestwards and weaken gradually into a cyclonic storm during the next 6 hours, IMD said in its 2.30pm bulletin. It did not intensify rapidly and that could have multiplied the damage over Odisha and West Bengal coasts several fold. “Unlike Tauktae, after landfall, westerly dry winds affected Yaas which helped it dissipate. The moisture feed was reduced. Now it will remain a cyclone or a deep depression till Thursday morning,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice president, Skymet Weather.Also Read | Storm surge triggered by Yaas and spring tide inflict heavy damage in BengalParts of Odisha reported extremely heavy rain on Wednesday — Chandbali 29cm; Garadpur and Rajkanika 25cm each; Balikuda 19cm; Tirtol and Binjharpur 21cm each; and Paradip 20cm. Over Tamil Nadu, Kanyakumari recorded 24cm; over Kerala, Idukki recorded 19cm; and Thiruvananthapuram 17cm. IMD scientists said Yaas had helped strengthen monsoon winds and that monsoon onset over Kerala is likely next week.High waves in the range of 3.5 to 9.8 metres are forecasted for parts of both Odisha and West Bengal coasts from Wednesday evening to Thursday evening by Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services (INCOIS). Extremely high waves were also recorded before and immediately after the landfall of Yaas but the height is yet to be validated through measurements on ground, IMD officials said.Independent experts said that both Arabian Sea and Bay of Bengal were exceptionally warm, making them favourable for development of powerful cyclones this month.“The similarity between Cyclone Yaas and Tauktae is that both are preceded by very high sea surface temperatures reaching 31– 32°C. These high temperatures were conducive for cyclone Tauktae to intensify into an extremely severe cyclone in a short time. Similarly, high temperatures are predicted to assist Yaas also for intensifying rapidly. However, there is one difference. Tauktae spent several days in the Arabian Sea where it could draw the heat and moisture continuously, reaching peak intensity of more than 220 km/hr. In the case of Yaas, it has formed in the north Bay of Bengal, and the travel distance to landfall is shorter. Here the common thread is that rising ocean temperatures in both the basins assisted these cyclones in their rapid intensification process,” said Roxy Mathew Koll, a climate scientist at Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology in a statement.According to IMD, Yaas may weaken to a depression only on Thursday morning. “Severe cyclone Yaas is moving towards Jharkhand. It will dissipate gradually reaching the intensity of a depression on Thursday morning. Till then its likely to bring a lot rain in its path,” added Sunitha Devi.Light to moderate rain at most places with heavy to very heavy rains and extremely heavy rain (over 20cm) is likely at few places over north interior Odisha during the next 24 hours and heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places over coastal Odisha during the next 12 hours. Moderate to heavy rain is likely over Medinipur, Jhargram, Bankura, South 24 parganas, Purulia, Nadia, Murshidabad, East Bardhaman, Howrah, Hooghly, Kolkata, North 24 Parganas, Haldia, Darjeeling, Kalimpong districts in West Bengal on Wednesday. Over Jharkhand very heavy to extremely heavy rain is likely at isolated places on Wednesday and Thursday.Experts said monsoon may arrive over Kerala a day in advance, as predicted by IMD. “Yaas helped pull the monsoon current head in the Arabian Sea. There was heavy to very heavy rain reported in many parts of Kerala in the last 24 hours so we are expecting monsoon to arrive early,” said Palawat.“Monsoon is likely to be on time. But we still have a few days, so we can’t say anything immediately. Let’s watch how conditions become favourable for its onset,” said M Mohapatra, director general, IMD.“Cross equatorial flow over the Arabian Sea has strengthened because of which very heavy rain was reported over Kerala. But that is not monsoon rain. We are expecting monsoon to arrive on May 31 or June 1,” said OP Sreejith, scientist and head, Climate Monitoring and Prediction Group.Monsoon is likely to arrive over Kerala on May 31, a day ahead of its normal arrival date of June 1, with a possible error margin of plus/minus four days, IMD had said on May 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-yaas-leaves-a-trail-of-destruction-but-strengthens-monsoon-winds-101622031798489.html
26-05-2021||India||‘Foolhardy to doubt objective’: Centre defends IT rules in row with WhatsApp||The Union ministry of electronics and information technology (MeitY) said on Wednesday the government "respects the right of privacy" as it responded to WhatsApp moving the Delhi high court against the new IT rules.Also Read | 'Dangerous invasion of privacy': WhatsApp moves Delhi HC against new IT rules"The government respects the right of privacy and has no intention to violate it when WhatsApp is required to disclose the origin of a particular message," the ministry said in a press release on Wednesday evening. "Such requirements are only in the case when the message is required for prevention, investigation or punishment of very serious offences related to the sovereignty and integrity of India, the security of the state, friendly relations with foreign states, or public order, or of incitement to an offence relating to the above or in relation with rape, sexually explicit material or child sexual abuse material," the release further said.Emphasising that the right to privacy is a fundamental right, the ministry further gave pointers on how the new rules are in "abiding public interest," are as per "law of the land," and "have an international precedence.""Government is committed to ensure the right of privacy to all its citizens but at the same time it is also the responsibility of the government to maintain law and order and ensure national security," the ministry quoted Union IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad as saying. "None of the measures proposed by India will impact the normal functioning of WhatsApp in any manner whatsoever and for the common users, there will be no impact," the minister further said.None of the measures proposed by India will impact the normal functioning of WhatsApp in any manner whatsoever and for the common users, there will be no impact. @rsprasad @GoI_MeitY @PIB_India @SanjayDhotreMP @DDNewslive @airnewsalertsOn February 25, Prasad and information and broadcasting (I&B) minister Prakash Javadekar announced the new IT rules, giving social media giants like Twitter, Facebook and Instagram three months, i.e. till May 25, to comply with the government directives. The deadline elapsed on Tuesday. While Twitter is yet to comment on the issue, Facebook has said it is "working on the new rules." However, it added that "a few of the issues need more engagement with the government."Also Read | Deadline ends; aim to comply: FacebookWhatsApp, which is owned by Facebook, moved the Delhi high court on Tuesday, stating in its plea that the rules are "unconstitutional," "illegal" and a "dangerous invasion of privacy."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-respect-right-of-privacy-govt-on-whatsapp-s-challenge-to-it-rules-101622031271979.html
26-05-2021||India||India administers 200 million Covid vaccine doses, second-fastest country after US||More than 200 million doses of the vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) have been administered on the 130th day under the Centre’s inoculation drive that started on January 16, the Union minister of health and family welfare said on Wednesday. India has become the second country after the US to cross the 200-million-mark, the health ministry also said.#LargestVaccineDrive➡️ India crosses 20 Crore Cumulative #COVID19 Vaccination Coverage in 130 days. ➡️ After the USA, India is the 2nd country to achieve this mark.https://t.co/VHo4RvqA8E pic.twitter.com/R7VkRGJa3JData shared by the health ministry showed that the United States took 124 days to complete 200 million jabs while India was the second-fastest to reach the mark, having done it in 130 days. Among other countries, the United Kingdom has given 61 million doses in 168 days, Brazil has administered 59 million doses in 128 days and Germany, France and Italy have administered 45 million doses, 33 million doses and 31 million doses respectively in 149 days, the data also showed.In a press release, the health ministry said that 200,662,456 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine have been delivered so far, as of 7am on Wednesday. This includes 157,149,593 first doses and 43,512,863 second doses of the vaccine, the data from the ministry showed. “As per the latest available data with the Union Health Ministry, over 34 percent [of the] population above 45 years has received at least 1st dose of COVID-19 vaccine in India till date. Similarly, over 42 percent of 60+ years of population in India has received at least 1st dose of COVID-19 vaccine,” the ministry added.Also read | Delhi reports 1,491 new Covid-19 cases as positivity rate falls below 2%, 130 more deaths recordedCurrently, three vaccines are being used by the government for its massive inoculation drive—Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute of India in Pune, and Covaxin of the Bharat Biotech in Hyderabad. "The Russian Sputnik V is the third vaccine to get approval from the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) for Emergency Use Authorisation and is being used in few private hospitals which are expected to be increased over the coming days," the ministry added.India’s vaccination drive entered its third phase on May 1 and the scope of the programme was expanded to include all people above 18 years of age. In the first phase, only healthcare workers and frontline workers were immunised on priority. Later on March 1, people above 60 years of age and between above 45 and 59 years with comorbidities were included in the drive. This was further expanded on April 1 to include all people above 45 years of age.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-administers-200-million-covid-vaccine-doses-second-fastest-country-after-us-101622030727101.html
26-05-2021||India||UP records sharp decline in active cases of Covid-19 in about a month, conducts record number of tests in 24 hours||Uttar Pradesh has seen a sharp decline in the number of active cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in less than one month, the state government said on Wednesday. From a peak of 3,10,783 on April 30, the number of active cases came down to 62,271 on Tuesday (just 20 per cent), the state government data showed.The state government also said that recovery rate in India's most populous state has surpassed 95 per cent. The state recorded 3,371 new cases of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, while 10,540 people recovered from the infection, the government data showed on Wednesday.The daily Covid positivity rate - the number of samples testing positive for the infection from total tests done - on Tuesday dipped below 1 per cent in state again for the first time since the middle of last month, according to the official data.The positivity rate was at its highest - at 16.84 per cent on April 24 - during the second wave of the pandemic, and has now come down to a low of 0.93 per cent.The state government also said that Uttar Pradesh recorded more daily recoveries than the number of fresh cases for 25th consecutive day.The state conducted as many as 3,58,273 Covid-19 tests in the last 24 hours, which according to Uttar Pradesh government is a nationwide record.On Tuesday, chief minister Yogi Adityanath said that an aggressive campaign is being run in the state against Covid-19 on the lines of the drive against encephalitis disease."We are running an aggressive campaign against the third wave of COVID-19 on the lines of the encephalitis campaign as we were able to bring down the encephalitis death rate to a minimum level during the last three years," he said in Gorakhpur."Preparation in each district is in full swing. Preparation is underway for 100-bed PICU ward at each medical college," Adityanath added. He also said that the state government has already started making preparations for the third wave of Covid-19 on war footing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-records-sharp-decline-in-active-cases-of-covid-19-recovery-rate-above-95-101622030517367.html
26-05-2021||India||Cyclone Yaas weakens after lashing Odisha, Bengal coasts; heavy rains forecast||Cyclone Yaas, which made landfall in Odisha’s Bhadrak district on Wednesday morning, has weakened into a severe cyclonic storm after battering Odisha and West Bengal with a wind speed of 130-145kmph, inundating the low-lying areas amid a storm surge, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The weather bureau said in a statement that the wind speed surged as high as 155 kilometres in some areas and sea levels of more than 2 meters above regular tides inundated several low-lying areas.Yaas, which was earlier classified as a very severe cyclonic storm, hit the coast north of Dhamra in Odisha's Bhadrak district and 50km south of Balasore, close to Bahanaga block, around 9am, weather officials said. The landfall process was over around 1.30pm, they added.Houses damaged, millions affectedWest Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee told reporters Cyclone Yaas destroyed more than 300,000 houses and affected 10 million people in the state even as about 1.5 million residents were evacuated to safer areas. Banerjee said river embankments have been breached, damaging some crops and fisheries and livestock farms. She claimed that West Bengal was the most affected state due to the cyclone and that relief material worth ₹10 crore were sent to the affected areas. "At least one crore people in Bengal have been affected by this natural disaster. As of now, 300,000 houses have been damaged. One person died an accidental death even after he was rescued," the chief minister said.Also read | Cyclone Yaas makes landfall: Measures to stay safeOdisha's special relief commissioner PK Jena said seawater entered several villages in Bahanaga and Remuna blocks in the Balasore district, and Dhamra and Basudevpur in the Bhadrak district. Jena said the administration with the help of the locals is taking measures to drain out the saline water from the villages. Authorities in Mayurbhanj district have started evacuating certain vulnerable points on both sides of the river and also from some low-lying areas in the Baripada town, he said. Restoration works for power lines have started in some places in Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapara and Jajpur district after cables were snapped, Jena said, adding that not much damage was caused in these districts.Two people were reportedly killed in Odisha as very severe cyclonic storm Yaas made landfall near a coastal village in Balasore. Reports said that several boats, shops and houses were damaged in the state and scores of trees were uprooted. Odisha moved more than 500,000 people to relief centres where authorities have asked people to maintain social distancing to check the spread of the coronavirus disease.Jharkhand continued evacuating low-lying areas amid the forecast that the cyclone would be hitting the state by midnight, officials in Ranchi said. East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum and Saraikela-Kharsawan districts of the state are likely to witness "very high seas" situation with wind speed of 92-117kmph, the weather office said. "We are ready to deal with the situation and have formed rescue teams," director general of police Neeraj Sinha told PTI.Airports shut, trains cancelledCyclone Yaas impacted several flights in the affected states as airports in Kolkata and Durgapur in West Bengal and Odisha’s Bhubaneswar, Jharsuguda and Rourkela will remain shut for commercial flights. "The closure will be reviewed as per the weather. Airports directed to carry restoration to restart operations ASAP,” Airports Authority of India (AAI) said in a series of tweets.Indian Railways said more than 30 passenger trains have been cancelled till May 29. "38 long-distance South-bound and Kolkata-bound passenger trains will remain cancelled from May 24 to 29...The Railways authority will refund the ticket charges of the passengers," the North East Frontier Railway said in a statement.Also watch: Cyclone Yaas pounds Odisha-Bengal coasts, IMD says may reach Jharkhand\Heavy rainsThe weather bureau has predicted extremely heavy rainfall in West Bengal’s East and West Midnapore districts and heavy to very heavy rainfall in Jhargram, Bankura, South 24 Parganas districts over the next 24 hours. It added that heavy rain will occur at isolated places in Purulia, Nadia, Murshidabad, Purba Bardhaman, Howrah, Hooghly, Kolkata, North 24 Parganas, Darjeeling and Kalimpong districts owing to the effect of Yaas.A red warning of heavy to very heavy rainfall was issued for nine districts in Odisha. "Heavy to very heavy rainfall at a few places with isolated extremely heavy fall very likely to occur over the districts of Balasore, Bhadrak, Jajpur, Kendrapada, Jagatsinghpur, Cuttack, Mayurbhanj, Keonjhar and Dhenkanal," the weather office said.Photos: Cyclone Yaas weakens after hitting the coasts of Odisha and BengalThe weather office said that the system lay centred at about 15km west of Balasore at 1.30pm with intensity of 100-110kmph, gusting to 120kmph. It would move north-northwestwards and weaken gradually into a cyclonic storm during the next six hours, it added.Bangladesh’s weather officials said the storm was likely to swamp low-lying areas of 14 coastal districts, bringing tides 0.91 meters to 1.22 metres higher than normal, and advised fishing boats and trawlers to stay in shelter.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-yaas-weakens-after-lashing-odisha-bengal-coasts-heavy-rains-forecast-101622029122483.html
26-05-2021||India||'A new weapon': Dr Naresh Trehan on Covid-19 antibody cocktail||The antibody cocktail, which was approved by India's drug regulator earlier this month, is working against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), one of the top doctors in the country Dr Naresh Trehan said on Wednesday. He also said that the combination of casirivimab and imdevimab is effective against the B.1.617 variant, first found in India."When casirivimab and imdevimab are injected into infected patient in early stage, it blocks virus from entering cells of patient. It is working against Covid-19 and also effective against B.1.617. This is a new weapon," Dr Naresh Trehan, chairman of Medanta Hospitals, was quoted as saying by new agency ANI.An 84-year-old man from Haryana became the first person in India to be administered the Covid drug cocktail developed by pharmaceutical giant Roche. Mohabbat Singh, who was under treatment for the last five days Medanta Hospital in Gurugram, was on Tuesday given the drug over a 30-minute intravenous supply."The man with multiple comorbidities got injected yesterday and he went home. We're going to follow him. Virus multiplication drops especially in those people who have high virus load and also in those who are at high risk of severe infection," said Dr Trehan."It has been used extensively in USA and Europe. The experience shows that when the it is given in first seven days of infection, 70-80% of people who're going to be entering hospitals for treatment will not need hospitalisation," he added.The Roche cocktail came into limelight after it was administered to former US President Donald Trump when he tested positive for the virus last year.Casirivimab and imdevimab are monoclonal antibodies that are specifically directed against the spike protein of Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, and are designed to block the virus’ attachment and entry into human cells.The company announced on Monday that it is now available in India, adding that the cost per patient dose will be ₹59,750. Each of the 100,000 packs to be available in India offers treatment for two patients.It is to be administered for the treatment of mild to moderate Covid-19 in adults and paediatric patients (12 years of age or older, weighing at least 40 kg) who are confirmed to be infected with Sars-CoV-2 and who are at high risk of developing severe disease, and do not require oxygen.The FDA-approved therapy demonstrated good efficacy in Phase 1/2 and Phase 3 studies by reducing Covid-19 related hospitalisation and death by 70 per cent.Dr Trehan, however, said that patients are advised to check with their doctor if monoclonal antibody therapy may be beneficial to them in the treatment of their Covid-19 infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-new-weapon-dr-naresh-trehan-on-covid-19-antibody-cocktail-101622029112044.html
26-05-2021||India||New social media guidelines ‘dire, drastic and draconian, says Congress||The Congress on Wednesday attacked the government over the new social media guidelines and called them “dire, drastic and draconian” while comparing the “freak control” model with that of North Korea.“The issuance of the new intermediary guidelines is a reflection of the Modi government’s obsession with dictatorship and suppressing dissent. The BJP [Bharatiya Janata Party] government is suffering from Big Daddy syndrome which is a control freak syndrome,” said Congress leader Abhishek Singhvi. “These guidelines are against India’s culture of discourse, deliberation, and dissent. The Modi government is strangulating our culture.”The guidelines were notified under the Information Technology Act on February 25 and gave the digital media firms three months to implement new content moderation mechanisms, appoint new officers, who will be liable for compliance, and adopt features such as traceability of messages.Also Read | Dangerous invasion of privacy: WhatsApp moves Delhi HC against new IT rulesSinghvi cited the 2017 Puttaswamy judgement in which the Supreme Court declared the right to privacy a fundamental right. He said privacy is important in the era of social media. “End-to-end encryption is the backbone of privacy in this era. The Modi government’s disregard for privacy is appalling.”WhatsApp moved the Delhi high court on Tuesday seeking the scrapping of the traceability provision in the new rules for the digital media companies for identifying originators of messages, saying it “unconstitutional”, “illegal” and a “dangerous invasion of privacy”.Singhvi compared the new rules to the North Korean model. “What you wish to implement would make the North Korean model of social media control blush. They should be seeking admission to the new Modi government school to learn these new mechanisms.” He called freedom of speech and expression and privacy the two pillars of democracy and the “vital oxygen” needed for it to exist. Singhvi asked the government not to “strangulate” the oxygen.There was no immediate response from the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-social-media-guidelines-dire-drastic-and-draconian-says-congress-101622029153766.html
26-05-2021||India||'Dangerous invasion of privacy': WhatsApp moves Delhi HC against new IT rules||New Delhi: Instant messaging application WhatsApp has contested the government’s new social media guidelines and has asked the Delhi High Court to scrap the traceability provision as it is “unconstitutional” and “illegal” as it constitutes a “dangerous invasion of privacy”. It has also sought that no criminal liability is imposed for any non-compliance with the rules.The messaging platform on Tuesday moved the court against the new rules announced in February for digital media companies, saying the requirement for them to adopt features such as traceability for identifying originators of messages violated the right to privacy under the Indian law and the company’s end-to-end encryption policy. The deadline to comply with section (4) of the rules lapsed on May 25, three months after they were notified with prominent social media platforms such as Twitter, Facebook and WhatsApp not taking the necessary measures.The company contests the rule that enables traceability of the first originator on the grounds that it lacks legislative competence, violation of fundamental rights and for exceeding the limit of the parent Act (Information and Technology Act, 2000). WhatsApp feels that requesting intermediaries to identify the first originator of messages constitutes “a dangerous invasion of privacy”.Also Read | ‘Will make N Korea blush’: Cong’s acerbic attack on Centre over new IT rulesIn its petition, seen by Hindustan Times, the company has argued that it has always worked to ensure that communication between users is “free” and “without fear”, for which reason it uses end-to-end encryption. The messaging application has constantly asserted that the only ones who can decrypt the messages are the recipients, and even WhatsApp cannot access the information. Observance of the new guidelines will require a companywide change for WhatsApp in terms of storing information and breaking end-to-end encryption.HT reached out to the ministry but did not receive a response immediately.WhatsApp’s encryption enables “freedom of expression”, for various stakeholders, including government officials, journalists, members of ethnic or religious groups, teachers and students alike without “fear of retaliation”, the petition states.The company has further highlighted that enabling such a trace would require it to store data of every user for a long time in order to enable the government to identify the first originator. The company has also factored in concerns raised by various key actors on how traceability will compromise the fundamental right to privacy. It has cited concerns raised by the Software Freedom Law Centre, Centre for Communication and Governance at National Law University and COAI.Also Read| WhatsApp’s refusal to comply with new rules a clear act of defiance: CentreThe company believes that enabling the provision will put users at risk of retaliation, such as journalists and political activists.Citing the Puttaswamy judgment of 2017, WhatsApp has established that the rule infringes upon the fundamental right to privacy as it does not meet the legality, necessity and proportionality requirement.Moreover, the argument that the rule is ultra vires the parent provision, section 79 of the IT Act, 2000 has also been factored in, as the section only allows the government to prescribe “due diligence” to maintain their immunity.In terms of sharing information with law enforcement agencies, WhatsApp already has a dedicated team of individuals who review and respond to requests for user data in the country.Concerns regarding traceability being incompatible with end-to-end encryption have been raised by several platforms, including Signal, another popular messaging mobile application and various civil society activists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dangerous-invasion-of-privacy-whatsapp-moves-delhi-hc-against-new-it-rules-101622028974026.html
26-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: BJP lawmaker seeks Shashi Tharoor's removal as parliamentary panel head and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.BJP lawmaker seeks Tharoor’s removal as parliamentary panel headBharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawmaker Nishikant Dubey has sought Shashi Tharoor’s removal as the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology chairperson for allegedly using the panel to further his political agenda. Read moreTamil Nadu govt to move resolution in assembly against farm lawsTamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin on Wednesday said his government will bring a resolution in the state assembly asking the Centre to withdraw the three farm laws, which were passed in September and triggered protests. Read more'Similar to what Razzaq had said about Bumrah': Kaneria slams Amir for 'out of the blue' remark about star India batsmanFormer Pakistan leg-sinner Danish Kaneria is not impressed with a recent statement made by Mohammad Amir about an India batsman. Read moreMadhuri Dixit’s young co-star in Prem Granth is Saloni Chopra of MTV Girls On Top. See her picsActor Saloni Chopra, known for playing Isha Jaisingh in MTV Girls On Top, took a trip down memory lane as actor Madhuri Dixit shared an Instagram post to mark 25 years of the release of Prem Granth. Read moreApple's iOS 14.6 update speeds up automated tasks via the Shortcuts app: ReportOn Monday, Apple rolled out the iOS 14.6 update to compatible iPhones, bringing Apple Card support, Podcasts subscriptions, improvements to Accessibility and Find My for AirTag, along with important security and bug fixes. Read moreMan tracks down laptop owner to return lost device, wins netizen’s heartsA single heartwarming conversation went viral on LinkedIn within a day. Here is the story behind the exchange. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-bjp-lawmaker-seeks-shashi-tharoor-s-removal-as-parliamentary-panel-head-and-all-the-latest-news-101622027840448.html
26-05-2021||India||'5 major states in safe zone': Harsh Vardhan says India gradually winning fight against Covid-19||Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan said on Wednesday that the country is crossing a new milestone, step by step, towards an eventual victory against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), highlighting that five major states are now in a "safe zone.""The country is slowly but steadily crossing every milestone of a victory against Covid-19. Five major states are now in a safe zone. The number of new positive cases, as well as active cases, is coming down every day. In the next seven days, the infection rate may come down in 15 states, big and small," a rough translation of Vardhan's tweet, posted in Hindi, read.#COVID19 के खिलाफ़ लड़ाई में देश धीरे-धीरे जीत के एक-एक पड़ाव को पार कर रहा है। भारत के पांच प्रमुख राज्य अब सुरक्षित जोन में आ गए हैं। नए और सक्रिय रोगियों की संख्या में भी लगातार गिरावट आ रही है। 15 छोटे-बड़े प्रदेशों में अगले 7 दिन में संक्रमण दर नीचे आ सकती है।@PMOIndia pic.twitter.com/0v5cOhZhHgThe health minister attached with his tweet a clipping of a Hindi daily, which stated that the rate of infection has dipped to under 5% in five states -- Delhi, Gujarat, Bihar, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh. The clipping further stated that the situation would improve in five more states -- Uttarakhand, Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Telangana -- in the coming days."According to the World Health Organization (WHO), an infection rate of less than 5% means that a pandemic is under control," the clipping said. It compared the infection rate in Delhi, Gujarat, Bihar, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh on May 17 and May 24, respectively: 13% and 4.5% (Delhi), 7.2% and 4.6% (Gujarat), 7% and 3.8% (Gujarat), 7.2% and 3.7% (Bihar) and 5.9% and 2.2% (Uttar Pradesh). It also showed that the current infection rate in Uttarakhand, Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Telangana is 9.6%, 7.9%, 7.3%, 5.7% and 5.3% respectively.India is currently witnessing a relative fall in its daily cases of Covid-19. In the last 24 hours, there were 208,921 new positive cases, 295,955 recoveries and 4,157 related deaths, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare's (MoHFW) data on Wednesday morning. According to the data, the country's infection tally has increased to 27,157,795, including 24,350,816 recoveries, 2,495,591 active cases and 311,388 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-major-states-in-safe-zone-harsh-vardhan-says-india-gradually-winning-fight-against-covid19-101622023508534.html
26-05-2021||India||No major damage as Cyclone Yaas hits northern Odisha coast, 2 dead||Two people were reportedly killed in Odisha as very severe cyclonic storm Yaas made landfall near a coastal village in Balasore district battering the northern coastline of the state with a sustained wind speed of 140 to 145 kmph gusting upto 155 kmph. It then weakened into a severe cyclonic storm by Wednesday afternoon.IMD officials said very severe cyclonic storm Yaas made landfall on Barajadhauli village in Balasore district on the Odisha coast at 9 am and then moved north-north-westwards wreaking havoc on coastal Balasore and Bhadrak district. By 1 pm the landfall process had been completed as it lay about 15 km west-southwest of Balasore.Special relief commissioner Pradip Jena said the cyclone did not inflict any major damage as it had considerably weakened from its initial assessment. He said that tidal waves of 2-3 meters height inundated low lying areas of Balasore and Bhadrak districts. “The wind speed will decrease to 100 kmph after it crosses Balasore to reach Mayurbhanj district and then decrease to 65-75 kmph gusting to 85 kmph by evening. Under the influence of the cyclone, heavy to very heavy rainfall has been witnessed at many places in North Odisha in the last 24 hours,” he said. ALSO READ | Cyclone Yaas makes landfall over Odisha, West Bengal coastsThe initial report of a cyclone-related casualty came from Keonjhar district when an elderly man was crushed to death after a tree toppled due to strong winds at Panchapalli village under Anandpur block. In Balasore district, a young man in Nilgiri was killed after a tree fell on him. Pradip Jena, however, said both the deaths are being investigated. Under the impact of the storm, tidal surges inundated 3 seaside villages in Balasore district marooning about 5,000 people. State government officials said people in Banajoka, Charigochhia and Naupalagadi villages under Balasore block were marooned by the waters of tidal surge. Sea water entered villages in Talsara region of Jaleswar block of Balasore district. Similarly, a flash flood in Basudevpur block of Bhadrak district marooned people in 10 villages. People in Basudevpur dug up a road to divert seawater that had entered a residential area.Cyclone Yaas triggered very heavy rainfall in most parts of north coastal Odisha on Wednesday morning with Chandbali station in Bhadrak district receiving the maximum rainfall of 288.3 mm followed by 251 mm in Rajkanika of Kendrapada district. Garadpur and Marshaghai in Kendrapara district received 245 mm and 229mm rains respectively while Kujang, Tirtol and Paradeep in Jagatsinghpur district and Binjharpur in Jajpur district received more than 200mm rainfall each in the last 24 hours.At least 19 stations, in Jajpur, Keonjhar, Kendrapada, Balasore, Bhadrak, and Puri received above 100 mm rainfall this morning. In Puri district, Kakatpur and Astaranga received heavy rains. In Chandipur coast of Balasore, sea water entered a resort.Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik said multiple teams are working towards speedy restoration pertaining to damages caused by Cyclone Yaas. Patnaik said PWD Balasore along with QRT teams and ODRAF teams are removing fallen trees in different parts of the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-major-damage-as-cyclone-yaas-hits-northern-odisha-coast-2-dead-101622028433594.html
26-05-2021||India||'Diabetes and steroid use not the only possible reasons for contracting mucormycosis': Top doctor||At a time when health experts are concerned about the rising number of mucormycosis, or black fungus, cases in the country, principal scientific adviser to the government of India, Dr K VijayRaghavan, shared a thread on micro-blogging website Twitter which explains what causes the infection and how people can lower their chances of contracting it. The twitter thread has been creatd by Dr Pramesh CS, director of Tata Memorial Hospital.A clear and important thread on Mucor: What they are, how they cause infections, how to treat the infection, how to lower chances of infection, prevent infection, by controlling diabetes, steroid use. Finally, reduce possibilities of getting COVID: Masks, distance, ventilation! https://t.co/wVgEYaaBl7Mucormycosis is a very rare infection which is caused by exposure to mucor mould (a fungus) which is commonly found in soil, plants, manure, and decaying fruits and vegetables. In the Twitter thread, Dr Pramesh has explained how the mucor spreads."Mucor is a fungal infection caused by “mucormycetes”, a group of fungi. These fungi are ubiquitous - in soil, fallen leaves, compost, and air. Yet, most of us don’t develop the disease," he said.First, how does mucor spread & how do patients with #COVID-19 get infected with it? Mucor is a fungal infection caused by “mucormycetes”, a group of fungi. These fungi are ubiquitous – in soil, fallen leaves, compost, and air. Yet, most of us don’t develop the disease pic.twitter.com/w0ero1nSRc"How does someone get infected with mucor? Most commonly, it is inhaled through the nose. Wearing a mask therefore, probably helps prevent it. Is mucor contagious? No - you can’t get infected by being in close contact with someone else who has the disease," he further added in the series of tweets.He then talks about what makes people more prone to developing mucor? Dr Pramesh said that by far the most important reason is reduced immunity. "There are several reasons for this - diabetes, being on steroids, taking immunosuppressant drugs, chemotherapy, and so on," said Dr Pramesh.He also said that diabetes and steroid use are not the only possible reasons for the spread of the infection. "We’ve also heard about possible industrial grade oxygen, tap water in humidifiers, reused masks, antibiotic overuse, all being possible reasons. Again, the truth is that we just don’t know," said Dr Pramesh.The top doctor then went on to talk about the chances of contracting mucor. The first thing he said is to make sure blood sugar levels of diabetics remain in control. Dr Pramesh also said that steroids should not be used unless prescribed by a doctor. "Indiscriminate steroid use harms in two ways - first it reduces your immunity; second, it raises your blood sugar levels. Both of these predispose you to getting infected with mucor," he said.He, however, did not say that steroids should not be used on Covid-19 treatment, but asked people to be careful about not using them when they are not required.The symptoms listed by Dr Parmesh include swelling of one side of the face, a feeling of stuffed nose, headache, red eyes, blackening of the bridge of nose or palate, discharge from the nose, and fever. He cautioned that mucormycosis should not be managed at home. "Mucor requires urgent hospitalization and treatment - please get admitted in a hospital," he said on Twitter.Do whatever you can to prevent infection with COVID_19. The 3 Ws – Wear a mask, Watch your distance, Wash your handsAnd get vaccinated whenever you are eligible.Take care, and stay safe, folks.Mucormycosis affects the sinuses, the brain and the lungs and can be life-threatening in diabetic or severely immuno-compromised individuals such as cancer patients or people with HIV/AIDS.The doctors in India are documenting an alarming number of cases of mucormycosis among patients with Covid-19 and those who have recently recovered. They believe that mucormycosis may be triggered by the use of steroids, a life-saving treatment for severe and critically ill Covid-19 patients.Eleven states and Uniomn territories have declared mucormycosis as an epidemic under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. The Union health ministry reported 5,424 cases of mucormycosis across India, out of which 4,556 patients have a history of Covid-19 infection with 55 per cent diabetics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-can-a-person-get-mucormycosis-infection-top-doctor-answers-101622027469389.html
26-05-2021||India||'1 crore people affected by Cyclone Yaas, 3 lakh houses damaged': Mamata Banerjee||Cyclone Yaas, which began its landfall on Wednesday morning near Dhamra port in Odisha, has completed the process, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, whose state is also in storm's path, said that at least 1 crore people have been affected and three lakh houses damaged due to rough weather conditions arising out of the cyclone.Track Live Updates"Cyclone Yaas has complete the process of landfall. Rainfall will continue till tomorrow. Fishermen are advised not to venture till tomorrow morning because the sea condition going to be rough," said Umashankar Das, senior scientist, Meteorological Centre, Bhubaneswar.IMD director general of meteorology, Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, said earlier in the day that the cyclone is likely to reach Jharkhand on Thursday morning.Also Read: Measures to stay safe as Cyclone Yaas makes landfallAccording to IMD estimates, Yaas will gradually weaken into a severe cyclonic storm in the next three hours, and into a cyclonic storm during the subsequent six hours.Meanwhile, Mamata Banerjee held a review meeting with district magistrates, disaster management committee and other officials in West Bengal. Later, addressing the media, she said that Bengal happens to be the "most-affected state"."I will soon be undertaking an aerial survey of the affected areas in Purba Medinipur, South 24 Parganas and North 24 Parganas districts," Banerjee said."We will be conducting field surveys to get a final estimate... It will take us at least 72 hours to get a clearer idea," she added.The chief minister further said that as many as 15,04,506 people have been evacuated from the vulnerable areas in the state and moved to safer places.Cyclone Yaas was packing gusts of up to 140 kmph as it hit land, authorities said. It destroyed tens of thousands of mud houses in Odisha and West Bengal, and forced the closure of the busiest regional airport in Kolkata.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-crore-people-affected-by-cyclone-yaas-3-lakh-houses-damaged-mamata-101622024884442.html
26-05-2021||India||'Lakshadweep India's jewel in ocean': Rahul Gandhi joins chorus of protest against administrator Praful Patel||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday pledged support to people of Lakshadweep who are protesting over new reforms introduced by the union territory's administrator Praful Khoda Patel. In a tweet, the Member of Parliament from Wayanad said that Lakshadweep is India's "jewel in the ocean"."The ignorant bigots in power are destroying it. I stand with the people of Lakshadweep," he said on Twitter.Lakshadweep is India’s jewel in the ocean. The ignorant bigots in power are destroying it. I stand with the people of Lakshadweep.Rahul's remarks come a day after his sister Priyanka Gandhi Vadra criticised Patel's move and accused him of destroying the the heritage of the group of islands located in the Arabian Sea.“The BJP government and its administration have no business to destroy this heritage, to harass the people of Lakshadweep or to impose arbitrary restrictions and rules on them,” Priyanka Gandhi said on Twitter.Patel is being slammed for approving the anti-social activities regulation bill, 2021, which empowers government to mandatory acquire private property for development, gives police powers to detain anyone, removes beef from the mid-day meal, allows cutting of trees for road expansion projects and introduces two-child norm for contesting in local body elections. He also gave a nod to open liquor bars in the island, a non-alcoholic zone due to its Muslim population.Many Congress leaders have said that such measures should not have been taken without consulting the inhabitants of the islands.Congress general secretary, K C Venugopal, on Tuesday petitioned President Ram Nath Kovind seeking his intervention in the immediate removal of the administrator. He alleged that the administrator is imposing a series of measures that have caused immense disturbance and disquiet in Lakshadweep.On the same day, the party's Leader of Opposition (LoP) in Kerala, VD Satheesan, wrote a letter to Union home minister Amit Shah in this regard."After the appointment of the new Administrator in the island, breaking the convention of IAS officers to the post, the people of Lakshadweep are being subjected to many undemocratic measures against which a huge resentment is growing in the island," Satheesan wrote in the letter.The Bharatiya Janata Party’s Lakshadweep unit president Mohammad Kasim also joined the chorus of protest against Patel. Kasim said people should be taken into confidence before announcing sweeping changes.Patel, the administrator of the Union Territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, was given additional charge of Lakshadweep in last December following the demise of administrator Dineshwar Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-joins-chorus-of-protest-against-lakshadweep-administrator-101622023314430.html
26-05-2021||India||Assam appoints ‘guardian ministers’ for its various districts||The Assam Cabinet on Wednesday appointed ministers who would act as guardians for different districts in the state.These guardians, each a minister of the Himanta Biswa Sarma Cabinet, have been given the responsibility of 2-3 districts to take stock of welfare schemes, implementation of infrastructure projects etc.“The guardian ministers will be responsible for administration in the districts under their charge. But they won’t be directly involved with people from those districts,” said parliamentary affairs minister Pijush Hazarika.“Earlier, there was a provision of in-charge ministers, but their specific roles and responsibilities were not clearly defined. The guardian ministers will follow the decisions taken by the Cabinet about their duties,” he added.The guardian ministers will be assigned with a secretary each and both will have to visit their districts at least once a month. They will also have to visit the districts during emergency situations and conduct extensive tours during natural disasters like floods, cyclones etc.Also Read | Assam extends Corona curfew till June 5; offices in urban areas to stay closed“They will review the implementation of various government schemes in the districts and submit a report to the chief minister,” said Hazarika.The ministers may also recommend awards for best practices followed in their districts and prepare vision documents after consultation with different departments. They will also prepare plans for job creation by utilising the resources the districts have.Meanwhile, the Cabinet also approved creation of a Bodoland welfare department for all issues related to four districts falling under Bodoland Territorial Region. Setting up of a Bodoland administrative staff college at Kokrajhar was also cleared.The Cabinet also expressed condolences on the death of Bodoland Peoples’ Front MLA from Gossaigaon, Majendra Narzary, who succumbed to post Covid-19 complications in Guwahati earlier in the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-appoints-guardian-ministers-for-its-various-dists-101622023273389.html
26-05-2021||India||'Will make N Korea blush’: Cong’s acerbic attack on Centre over new IT rules||The Centre’s new information technology rules that forced Facebook Inc’s messaging platform WhatsApp to petition the Delhi high court are aimed at asphyxiating democracy and curbing dissent, the Congress said on Wednesday.The new rules are "dire, drastic and draconian", Congress leader Abhishek Singhvi said at an online media briefing on Wednesday as he sought to scale up the offensive against the rules that were notified three months earlier in February but came into effect at midnight.“The issuance of the new intermediary guidelines reflect the BJP government's syndrome, which is a ‘Big Daddy syndrome’. It is a control freak syndrome…. You would make the North Korean model of control of the media blush,” Singhvi said.The Congress’ harshly-worded criticism of the rules comes hours after WhatsApp confirmed that it had approached the Delhi high court against provisions in the rules that require it to ensure that it can trace the origin of messages.Also Read| WhatsApp’s refusal to comply with new rules a clear act of defiance: Centre“Requiring messaging apps to “trace” chats is the equivalent of asking us to keep a fingerprint of every single message sent on WhatsApp, which would break end-to-end encryption and fundamentally undermines people’s right to privacy,” the WhatsApp spokesperson saidWhatsApp has asked the Delhi high court to scrap the traceability provision as it is “unconstitutional”, “illegal” and constitutes a “dangerous invasion of privacy”.In a blog, WhatsApp said some governments were seeking to force technology companies to find out who sent a particular message on private messaging services. It said providing traceability for messages would break the end-to-end encryption and would severely undermine the privacy of billions of people who communicate digitally.“Then, what is the point of end-to-end encryption… It is like a camera in your drawing room or bedroom,” said Singhvi.The Congress leader, also a senior lawyer, said under the new rules, social media and messaging platforms that do not comply with these provisions will not get the protection extended to intermediaries. This means these companies will be liable for messages that are transmitted via their platforms.The rules were designed to curb free speech, particularly on social media which the government has not been able to control so far, Singhvi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-make-n-korea-blush-cong-s-acerbic-attack-on-centre-over-new-it-rules-101622022996503.html
26-05-2021||India||Tamil Nadu govt to move resolution in assembly against farm laws||Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin on Wednesday said his government will bring a resolution in the state assembly asking the Centre to withdraw the three farm laws, which were passed in September and triggered protests. He made the announcement reiterating ruling Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s (DMK) stand on the issue on the day when farmer unions are observing a “black day” to mark six months of their agitation against the legislation.State assemblies in states such as Congress-ruled Punjab, Rajasthan, and Chhattisgarh have passed similar resolutions.Also Read | Covid-19 variant first detected in India found in at least 53 territories: WHOThe resolution was among the poll promises of DMK, which returned to power this month. In a statement, Stalin called it a matter of concern that six months have passed since the laws were passed but the Centre has not tried to have a “constructive dialogue” with the farmers to resolve the issue nor taken any steps to revoke the legislation.Tamil Nadu’s previous government of All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, an ally of the Bharatiya Janata Party, supported the legislation.The DMK-led Secular Progressive Alliance held a day-long hunger strike in Chennai in December in support of the agitating farmers in Delhi and led several protests. Trade unions and farmer unions also protested in the state.The protests against the legislation have not been as widespread in Tamil Nadu as in other parts of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-govt-to-move-resolution-in-assembly-against-farm-laws-101622022313231.html
26-05-2021||India||As Covid cases drop, Gujarat relaxes night curfew in 36 cities||Gujarat on Wednesday relaxed the night curfew in place by an hour in 36 cities but did not change the restrictions which have been clamped during the day as the western state recorded a significant drop in the new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Chief Minister Vijay Rupani made the announcement about the revised curfew timings after a cabinet meeting in Gandhinagar.Rupani said restrictions on the movement of people during the night will be in place 9pm to 6am in these 36 cities from Friday. The chief minister said a notification in this regard will be issued on Thursday. "Coronavirus cases are decreasing in Gujarat. From nearly 14,600 new cases, the highest daily peak registered on April 30, about 3200 cases are currently emerging every day. Hence, we have decided to relax the night curfew. The curfew will now be from 9pm to 6am," Rupani said, according to news agency PTI.Also read | Gujarat facility to make 200 million additional doses of CovaxinThe chief minister also said the state government is alert about the possibility of a third wave of the coronavirus pandemic and a detailed action plan to deal with it will be announced soon. The night curfew is currently in place in 36 cities, including Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot.Also read | Covid curbs in Gujarat: Police raid coaching centre, find 555 students insideGujarat reported 3255 new cases of the coronavirus and 44 related fatalities on Tuesday, raising the infection tally to 794,912 and the death toll to 9665, official data showed. The state reported 14,605 new Covid-19 cases on April 30, the highest in the state so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-covid-cases-drop-gujarat-relaxes-night-curfew-in-36-cities-101622021246959.html
26-05-2021||India||BJP lawmaker seeks Tharoor’s removal as parliamentary panel head||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawmaker Nishikant Dubey has sought Shashi Tharoor’s removal as the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology chairperson for allegedly using the panel to further his political agenda. He made the demand in a letter to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla over Tharoor’s comments about the issue of tagging tweets of BJP leaders related the Congress’s alleged “toolkit” to defame the government as “manipulated media”.Dubey, who is a member of the panel, accused Tharoor of “using the committee as an extension of the Congress”. He added Tharoor is more concerned about his party and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s agenda than the nation. “Recently, on the Twitter toolkit controversy, he is asking for explanations from the Ministry of Information and Technology [IT] when Twitter’s action is against this nation’s IT law,” Dubey said.In a series of tweets, Tharoor said the committee is already examining the subject “Safeguarding citizens’ rights & prevention of misuse of social/online media platforms”, which relates to this issue. “It is therefore well within the Cmt [committee]’s mandate to seek a clarification on this matter from the Ministry concerned.” He cited established practice and good form and added members with issues to raise relating to the work of a Parliamentary Committee are advised to communicate directly with the chairman and/or the Committee Secretariat, rather than ventilating their concerns in the media without discussion. He referred to Dubey’s allegations related to the manipulated media issue and clarified that given the Committee’s inability to meet in current circumstances, it communicates with ministries in writing as required.Also Read | WhatsApp moves Delhi high court against new guidelines“...On the subject of the Ministry of IT’s contacts with @Twitter on #ManipulatedMedia, the Committee Secretariat wrote to MEITY [Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology] by email on 4 & 25 May & received a detailed & comprehensive reply dated 26 May, which is being circulated to all Members for their information,” he tweeted. The Congress on Tuesday urged Twitter to tag as “manipulated media” posts by 11 Union ministers for “spreading false and malicious propaganda” related to the “toolkit”. Twitter last week flagged a post of BJP leader Sambit Patra as “manipulated media” after he shared details purportedly of Congress documents that were allegedly part of a “toolkit” made to defame Prime Minister Narendra Modi and build a biased narrative over Covid-19 management, and the Central Vista project..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-lawmaker-seeks-tharoor-s-removal-as-parliamentary-panel-head-101622021473468.html
26-05-2021||India||First lunar eclipse in over 2 years begins, will last for 5 hours||The Moon started to come under the earth's shadow on Wednesday as lunar eclipse, the first to take place in over two years, began. A few hours later, the Moon will be fully covered by the Eart, resulting in total lunar eclipse. While the total lunar eclipse will last for about 15 minutes, the entire event will go on for five hours.The last total lunar eclipse took place on January 21, 2019.The phenomenon is being called 'super blood moon'. The moon is at perigee, or the closest point to Earth in its orbit, making it appear about 7% larger than normal and 15% brighter, hence the term 'super'. Also, since it is passing through the Earth's shadow, the moon appears red, due to which the phenomenon has been termed "blood moon".Also Read: Total lunar eclipse, blood moon and supermoon coming together todayAdditionally, May's full moon is known as the "Flower Moon" since it occurs when spring flowers are in bloom. The result when taken together is a "Super Flower Blood Moon."What makes a "supermoon" different from other full Moons? Compare side-by-side and learn more here: https://t.co/cxZEdHDbao pic.twitter.com/CijIYz4h57The eclipse is visible in western North America, with people in Alaska and Hawaii getting the best views. Those living in southern Chile and Argentina can also see it. Skygazers in all of Australia and New Zealand and parts of Southeast Asia can see the eclipse on Wednesday evening.In India, a partial lunar eclipse will be visible in Agartala, Kolkata, Cherrapunji, Cooch Behar, Imphal, Itanagar, Guwahati, Malda, Kohima, Lumding, Puri, Silchar and Digha. The partial phase of the lunar eclipse will begin at 3.15pm and end at 6.23pm in India, while the total phase will begin at 4.39pm and end at 4.58pm (all times in IST).Lunar eclipse: Where to watch in IndiaDuring a lunar eclipse, the Earth comes in between the Sun and the Moon blocking the direct sunlight that could fall upon the Earth's natural satellite. This blockage of the sunlight casts the Earth's shadow on the surface of the Moon. Under a total lunar eclipse, the whole Moon comes under the umbral shadow of the Earth and the partial lunar eclipse occurs when only a part of the Moon comes under the umbral shadow of the Earth.Unlike a solar eclipse, there's no harm in looking at an eclipsed moon.The next lunar eclipse will be visible from India on November 19. It will be a partial lunar eclipse.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-lunar-eclipse-in-over-2-years-begins-will-last-for-5-hours-101622021150477.html
26-05-2021||India||Jharkhand not vaccine waster; Hemant Soren's office blames Co-Win glitch||The Union health ministry on Wednesday put out vaccination wastage data according to which Jharkhand is the top waster with 37.3 per cent wastage, followed by Chhattisgarh, Tamil Nadu, Jammu and Kashmir and Madhya Pradesh. The national average of wastage is 6.5 per cent while the states and Union territories are being repeatedly asked to keep wastage below 1 per cent. The states, however, dismissed the data and said the data is not properly updated.Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren's office said the latest data of the vaccination in the state could not be fully uploaded to Co-Win due to technical difficulties. According to CMO data, the wastage of vaccine in the state is around 4.65 per cent.Covid-19 vaccine wastage rate improves in Haryana, average now at 2% to 3%, says state governmentThe Govt of Jharkhand is fully focused on utilising it’s available vaccine doses in the most prudent manner possible ensuring minimal wastage. We hope to minimise it further with more focused vaccination awareness campaigns in deep forested & other rural areas of the state ."The Govt of Jharkhand is fully focused on utilising its available vaccine doses in the most prudent manner possible ensuring minimal wastage. We hope to minimise it further with more focused vaccination awareness campaigns in deep forested & other rural areas of the state," Hemant Soren's office tweeted.Out of 48.63 lakh vaccine doses supplied to all district of Jharkhand, 42.07 lakh doses have already been utilised and the state has around 6.56 lakh doses available now.Chhattisgarh too has objected to the data and said that the state already wrote to the ministry informing that there were some data issues.Prime Minister Narendra Modi recently stressed the need to minimising vaccine wastage as even the wastage of one dose means one will be deprived of the shot. "Wasting even a single dose means not being able to give a shield to a life. It is important to stop vaccine wastage. Health Ministry is providing information to the states regarding vaccines for 15 days. Vaccine supply will help you in managing vaccination timelines," PM Modi recently said.The health ministry had accommodated for 10 per cent vaccine wastage when the drive began in January 2021. But now as the drive is expanding, the aim is to minimise wastage.One of the reasons for vaccine wastage, as pointed out earlier, was vaccine hesitancy when people register for vaccination but do not eventually turn up. If a vial is opened but not enough people turn up, it may lead to vaccine wastage as the vaccines are to be used within a fixed time after the opening of the vial. Apart from this, vaccine wastage can take place during transportation or if the vials are not stored at the proper temperature required.Kerala has claimed zero vaccine wastage as it managed to administer more doses than what it received from the Centre by adding the remnant of each dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-not-vaccine-waster-hemant-soren-s-office-blames-co-win-glitch-101622020561232.html
26-05-2021||India||Centre supplies nearly 30,000 additional vials of mucormycosis drug to states||The Centre on Wednesday allocated additional vials of Amphotericin-B drug, used in treatment of mucormycosis, to states and Union territories across the country. Union minister Sadananda Gowda said on Twitter that 29,250 vials of the drug have been given to the states."The allocation has been made based on the number of patients under treatment which is 11,717 across the country," Gowda said in his tweet.Additional 29,250 vials of #Amphotericin- B drug, used in treatment of #Mucormycosis, have been allocated to all the States/UTs today.The allocation has been made based on the number of patients under treatment which is 11,717 across the country.#blackfungus#AmphotericinB pic.twitter.com/j0LyR6GLjHAccording to the break-up provided by Gowda, the highest number of vials (7210) have been given to Gujarat followed by Maharashtra (6980) - the two states which have the most number of mucormycosis cases.Also Read: Maharashtra to get 60k vials of black fungus medicineEarlier, additional 19,420 vials of the drug were allocated on May 24 and 23,680 vials were supplied across the country on May 21, the government said in a release.The demand for the Amphotericin B Liposome injection has significantly increased amid the second wave of Covid-19.Minister of state for chemical and fertilizers Mansukh Mandaviya had said on Tuesday that the government is putting in all efforts to ramp up the production of Amphotericin-B in the country as well as importing seven lakh vials of the drug through Indian companies to fulfill the requirements for the high demand of the medicine."I think 15 to 16 lakh vials of Amphotericin- B injections are likely to be available in the month of June in the country," Mandaviya told news agency ANI.Also Read: Gap between demand, supply of drug to treat black fungus too high, says HCMucormycosis is a very rare infection which is caused by exposure to mucor mould which is commonly found in soil, plants, manure, and decaying fruits and vegetables. It affects the sinuses, the brain and the lungs and can be life-threatening in diabetic or severely immuno-compromised individuals such as cancer patients or people with HIV/AIDS.The doctors in the country have said there is an alarming rise in the number of mucormycosis cases among patients with Covid-19 and those who have recently recovered from the disease. They believe that mucormycosis may be triggered by the use of steroids, a life-saving treatment for severe and critically ill Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-supplies-nearly-30-000-additional-vials-of-mucormycosis-drug-to-states-101622018828882.html
26-05-2021||India||Indonesia’s acting envoy to India succumbs to Covid-19||Indonesia’s chargé d’affaires in New Delhi, Ferdy Piay, who was airlifted home after contracting Covid-19, died in Jakarta on Tuesday night, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. Piay is the second senior member of the diplomatic community in New Delhi to die amid a devastating second wave of Coronavirus infections sweeping across the country. Col Moses Beatus Mlula, defence advisor at the high commission of Tanzania, died at a military hospital in New Delhi on April 28. Indonesia’s former envoy to India, Sidharto Suryodipuro, tweeted late on Tuesday: “With sadness but also with profound gratitude of our many memories working together that I bid farewell to a good friend and wonderful colleague, Ferdy Piay, Chargé d’Affaires of @KBRI_NewDelhi. May he now rest in peace. Om Shanti.” Piay contracted Covid-19 in Delhi last month and was initially treated in the Indian capital. He was airlifted to Jakarta on April 27 after his condition deteriorated, the people cited above said. Also Read | Delhi reports fewest Covid deaths since mid-AprilIndonesia’s BeritaSatu news channel had reported on May 19 that Piay was being treated at a hospital after being infected with Covid-19. It quoted Indonesia’s consul general in Mumbai, Agus Prihatin Saptono, as saying that Piay was under treatment. There was no official word from the Indian side on the developments. Piay was a career diplomat who served as director for South and Central Asia and director general for Asia Pacific and Africa at Indonesia’s foreign ministry. He was among the group of diplomats that toured the facilities of Indian vaccine manufacturers in Hyderabad last December. BeritaSatu channel also cited data from Indonesia’s foreign ministry to report that 130 Indonesian citizens had contracted Covid-19 in India, and 117 recovered while 10 were in a stable condition. Three Indonesians had died, the report said. The total number of Indonesian citizens in India was 798, the report added. The people cited above said there were reports of Indian staff and junior diplomats testing positive at several foreign missions, including those of the Philippines, New Zealand, Germany, Thailand, Vietnam, Palestine, the US, Afghanistan and Saudi Arabia. Several missions have airlifted sick diplomats home for treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indonesias-acting-envoy-to-india-succumbs-to-covid19-101622018954411.html
26-05-2021||India||Air India staff unions seek probe into provident fund trusts||Air India Joint Actions Forum of Unions, representing 10,000 staff members, has approached civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri seeking a forensic probe into the alleged mishandling of two provident trust funds that have incurred losses to the tune of ₹1,085 crore.The forum’s May 25 letter reads, “It has come as a shock to all of us Unions, many of whom were not involved or aware of the day to day functioning of the Provident Fund trusts of Indian Airlines and Air India that huge losses have been incurred by both the trusts, due to questionable investments in companies like ILFS and Dewan Housing, among others, which collapsed.”Also Read | Look after pilots who have lost lives due to Covid: Air India pilotsThe issue came up as the airline, which is set to be privatised, asked its employees to transfer their savings from the two trusts to the Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO). The employees allege this will result in losses for them because of bad investments made with the trust money without their knowledge.Requesting a meeting with Puri, the forum has asked the ministry to cover these losses and subsidise the transition of the Air India / Indian Airlines provident trusts to the EPFO, without any loss to them. “We have only learnt of the magnitude of these losses allegedly incurred through some questionable investments, by means of a MOCA letter no 17046/73/2019- AI dated 16/04/21, which is in public domain, wherein the figure of losses mentioned is ₹1,085 crore,” the letter reads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ai-staff-unions-seek-probe-into-provident-fund-trusts-101622018353358.html
26-05-2021||India||Cyclone Yaas makes landfall: Measures to stay safe||Cyclone Yaas crossed the southern coast of Balasore in Odisha around 10.30am on Wednesday as 1.4 million people were evacuated and moved to storm shelters from low-lying areas of West Bengal and Odisha. Thousands of people from neighbouring Jharkhand’s East Singhbhum and West Singhbhum districts were also moved to safer places as the cyclone made landfall on Wednesday morning.Click here for live updates on Cyclone YaasIndia's west coast, which geared up for the cyclone's landfall days after it was battered by Cyclone Tauktae, is going to see more such intense cyclonic disturbances going forward due to the climate crisis, according to experts.All focus of the authorities is on minimising the loss of property and life during the cyclone. “Zero casualty is the motto. We are leaving no stone unturned for saving lives,” Odisha’s special relief commissioner Pradip Jena said.Here are some measures you can take at home in order to stay safe during cyclonic storms:Steer clear of flooded roads: Avoid driving in flooded areas as vehicles can be swept away or may stall in moving water. If you have come in contact with floodwater, wash your hands with soap and clean water.Electronic devices: Keep your phones, power banks etc fully charged but do not use a wet electrical device. Turn off the power from the main switch in your house if devices are still plugged in.Keep a stock of essentials: Make sure you have essential supplies like food grains and medicines stocked for a few days. If you use an electric water purifier, make sure you have drinking water stored to keep you doing for some days. Keep candles and matchsticks and other light sources near you and if the power is out, preferably use flashlights. If you are using candles, stay near them and keep a fire extinguisher handy.Be watchful if your building is old/damaged: Exit your home or building if you hear shifting or unusual noises as this could mean the building is about to fall. Also, be careful around fallen power lines. Call the power company concerned to report damaged power lines as they could pose a serious threat of electrocution.Clean up your home properly: Wear waterproof boots, hats, goggles and masks when you clean your home after a cyclone or a hurricane. Disinfect everything and keep a fire extinguisher nearby.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-yaas-makes-landfall-measures-to-stay-safe-101622013587521.html
26-05-2021||India||Pfizer can supply 5 crore vaccines to India in 2021 but conditions apply||US pharma company Pfizer has refused to send vaccines to Delhi and Punjab but it has hinted that it can supply five crore vaccine doses to India in 2021 if the Centre agrees to its terms and conditions, news agency PTI has reported.According to the report, Pfizer can supply one crore vaccine doses in July, one in August, two crore in September and another one crore in October. But it will deal only with the government of India and the payment has to be made by GOI.Pfizer, sources told to PTI, has also asked for indemnification from the Centre like it has with around 116 countries in the world, including the United States. Reuters reported that the US drugmaker wants legal protection from any claims linked to the use of its vaccine. Another report says Pfizer wants relaxations in the 'requirement of post-approval bridging trials and dispensing the requirement of testing their vaccines in Central Drugs Laboratory".Moderna shot likely next year; Pfizer to offer 50 million jabsFor the approval of any foreign-made vaccine, local trials in India are required, like Dr Reddy's Laboratory's conducted for Sputnik V, the only foreign vaccine approved in India. It is not yet known whether the government will agree to these clauses as other companies may raise similar demands.As Pfizer refused to supply to individual states, the ministry said it has been coordinating with both Pfizer and Moderna. "Whether it is Pfizer or Moderna, at the Centre-level, we have been coordinating with them. The order book of both Pfizer and Moderna is full so it depends on their surplus that how much they can provide in India... they will come back to the Centre and we will help in facilitation to states," health ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal said.Pfizer has defended that 14.7 crore doses of vaccines have already been administered worldwide without any "significant reports of adverse effects". The expert group of vaccination will take a final call on allowing Pfizer, reports said.Maha says eight global vax bids in; are deals possible?Regarding Pfizer's vaccine, the Centre was initially doubtful as it required to be stored at minus 70 degree celsius. But recently, the company said that its vaccine can be stored at minus 25 degree, and it can also be stored for five days at a temperature between two degree and eight degree celsius.Meawnhile, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corportion commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal on Tuesday claimed that the civic body has received a bid from Pfizer in response to BMC's vaccine procument tender, which the US pharma giant has refured. "Neither Pfizer Inc nor any of its affiliates globally, including in India, have authorized anyone to import/market/distribute the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID 19 vaccine. We continue to have ongoing discussions with the Government of India towards making our vaccine available for use nationally," an official told news agency ANI.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pfizer-can-supply-5-crore-vaccines-to-india-in-2021-but-conditions-apply-101622016114477.html
26-05-2021||India||Pandemic brought tragedy to doorstep: PM Modi at global Vesak celebrations||The Covid-19 pandemic is a once in a lifetime crisis that brought tragedy to the doorstep of many but also resulted in mankind demonstrating its tenacity through the development of vaccines within a year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Wednesday. Delivering a keynote address during virtual global Vesak celebrations on the occasion of Buddha Purnima, Modi said nations around the world were witnessing a “mix of continuity and change” a year after the Covid-19 outbreak. “The Covid-19 pandemic has not left us. Several nations, including India, have experienced a second wave. This is the worst crisis humanity faces in decades. We have not seen a pandemic like this for a century,” he said. “This once in a lifetime pandemic has brought tragedy and suffering at the doorstep of many. The pandemic has impacted every nation. The economic impact is huge as well. Our planet will not be the same after Covid-19.” Modi added, “To those who have suffered and lost their near and dear ones, I would like to extend condolences. I grieve with them.” The prime minister lauded the efforts of first responders, frontline healthcare workers, doctors, nurses and volunteers who “selflessly risked their lives every day to serve others in need”, and scientists who worked to develop Covid-19 vaccines. Also Read | BJP cadre to cover 100k villages to mark PM Modi govt’s 7th yr at Centre“But over the last year, there have been many noteworthy changes as well. We now have a better understanding of the pandemic, which strengthens our strategy to fight it. Most importantly, we have the vaccine, which is absolutely important to save lives and defeat the pandemic,” he said. “The emergence of a vaccine in a year of the pandemic striking shows the power of human determination and tenacity. India is proud of our scientists who have worked on the Covid-19 vaccines.” Vesak, a festival that celebrates the Buddha’s birth, enlightenment and death, is an occasion to celebrate the life of the Buddha and also reflect on his ideals and sacrifices for the betterment of the planet, Modi noted. Just as the Buddha devoted his life to removing human suffering, individuals and organisations rose to the occasion over the past year and worked to reduce human suffering amid the pandemic, he said. Contributions of equipment and materials were made by Buddhist organisations and followers of the religion around the world, and these actions were in line with the Buddha’s teachings of “blessings, compassion and welfare of all”. Amid the fight against Covid-19, people must not lose sight of other challenges such as climate change since the reckless lifestyles of the current generation are threatening future generations, Modi said. He referred to the Buddha’s emphasis on a way of life whereby respect for nature is paramount, and said India is among the few large economies that are on track to achieve their Paris Accord targets. Noting that the life of the Buddha was dedicated to peace and co-existence, Modi said there are forces whose existence depends solely on spreading hate, terrorism and mindless violence. Such forces don’t believe in liberal democratic principles and those who believe in humanity should come together to defeat terror and radicalisation, he added. Quoting from Mahatma Gandhi, Modi said, “Buddha taught us to defy appearances and trust in the final triumph of truth and love.” He urged everyone to renew their commitment to the ideals of the Buddha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pandemic-brought-tragedy-to-doorstep-pm-modi-at-global-vesak-celebrations-101622015653205.html
26-05-2021||India||'Criminal act': Ramdev gets ₹1,000 cr defamation notice from IMA Uttarakhand||Yoga guru Ramdev has been served a defamation notice by the Indian Medical Association’s (IMA’s) Uttarakhand division for his recent statements questioning the efficacy of allopathy medicines. According to news agency ANI, IMA said if Ramdev does not post a video countering his statements and tender a written apology within 15 days then ₹1,000 crore will be demanded from him. The six-page notice describes the remarks by Ramdev as damaging to the reputation and the image of allopathy and around 2000 practitioners, who are part of the association, PTI reported. It has said the remarks of the yoga guru was a "criminal act" under section of 499 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).Also read | ‘Ramdev was reading WhatsApp forward’: Patanjali on ‘allopathy is stupid’ video"I am ready for face-to-face with Baba Ramdev. Ramdev does not have a lot of knowledge about allopathy, despite that he is against allopathy and the doctors associated with it. He is making rhetorical statements," IMA’s Uttarakhand unit president Dr Ajay Khanna was quoted as saying by the news agency. Khanna added that Ramdev's rhetoric has reduced the morale of doctors working day and night in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic. “Ramdev is constantly lying to sell his medicines."The yoga guru came under fire from IMA and several doctors, who demanded his prosecution over his statements questioning the efficacy of allopathy medicines. Ramdev was seen reading out from his phone in the 140-second long video, which was shared widely on social media. “Allopathy is a stupid science. Firstly, hydroxychloroquine failed, the remdesivir failed… Plasma therapy effectiveness is now banned, the steroids have failed. Even Fabiflu and Ivermectin have also failed,” he said in Hindi.Also watch | 'Frontline health workers insulted': Why doctors want Ramdev bookedIMA on Saturday sent a legal notice to the yoga guru over his alleged statements against allopathy and "defaming" scientific medicine. His Patanjali Yogpeeth Trust, however, denied allegations by the top medical body. Ramdev was reading out a WhatsApp forwarded message in the video that has gone viral on social media, according to the statement by the Haridwar-based trust.Also read | 'When allopathy doctors call Ayurveda pseudo-science': Ramdev to Harsh VardhanRamdev withdrew his statement on Sunday after receiving a strongly-worded letter from Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan. "We do not oppose modern medical science and allopathy. We believe that allopathy has shown immense progress in surgery and the lifesaving system and served humanity. My statement has been quoted as part of a WhatsApp message that I was reading during a meeting of volunteers. I am sorry if it has hurt anyone's sentiment," Ramdev said in his letter to the Union health minister in Hindi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/criminal-act-ramdev-gets-rs-1-000-cr-defamation-notice-from-ima-uttarakhand-101622014713092.html
26-05-2021||India||Subodh Kumar Jaiswal takes charge as CBI director||Subodh Kumar Jaiswal, the former director general of police (DGP) of Maharashtra, on Wednesday took charge as the director of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). Jaiswal will have a fixed tenure of two years in the central probe agency or until further orders. Jaiswal’s appointment came after a high-powered committee led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and comprising chief justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana and Congress Lok Sabha floor leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury appointed the 1985-batch Maharashtra cadre Indian Police Force (IPS) officer to the post on Tuesday.During the meeting, Chowdhury had objected to the process of selection of officers for the coveted post, but later agreed to the three names. "The way the procedure was followed, it was in conflict with the mandate of the committee. On 11th (May), I was given 109 names and today (Monday) by 1pm, 10 names were shortlisted and by 4pm, six names were shortlisted. This casual approach of DoPT (department of personnel and training) is highly objectionable," Chowdhury told PTI.The appointment is significant as the Supreme Court is hearing a petition filed by an NGO—Common Cause—on the delay in the appointment of a regular CBI chief.The IPS officer was posted as director general of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF). In his earlier deputation, Jaiswal served with the Special Protection Group (SPG), which secures the Prime Minister and with the Research and Analysis Wing (R&AW), the country’s external intelligence agency.The post of CBI director was lying vacant since February when Rishi Kumar Shukla completed his tenure. Additional director Praveen Sinha was looking after the affairs of the premier investigation agency as interim chief since then.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/subodh-kumar-jaiswal-takes-charge-as-cbi-director-101622014336935.html
26-05-2021||India||Political developments in Nepal its internal matters, says India||India on Wednesday described recent developments in Nepal, including Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli’s decision to dissolve parliament and turmoil within the ruling party, as “internal matters” to be tackled within the neighbouring country’s democratic processes. Nepal plunged into fresh political turmoil last week following Oli’s move to recommend the dissolution of the House of Representatives amid a worsening Covid-19 outbreak. President Bidya Devi Bhandari fixed general elections for November but the country has been rocked by political protests. “We have taken note of the recent political developments in Nepal. We view these as internal matters of Nepal to be dealt by them under their own domestic framework and democratic processes,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said. “As a neighbour and friend, India remains unwavering in its support for Nepal and its people on their journey toward progress, peace, stability and development,” he said. Also Read | In Nepal’s political theatre, Delhi risks eroding strategic gains by backing OliIndia-Nepal relations have witnessed major ups and downs since Oli, 69, came to power in 2018 at the head of an alliance of leftist parties. His efforts to move Nepal closer to China while retaining ties with India didn’t go down well in New Delhi and bilateral ties were hit by a border row last year. Nepal was irked when India opened a strategic road to Lipulekh on the border with China – a region claimed by Kathmandu. It responded by issuing a new political map that showed the areas of Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura, all within India, as Nepalese territories. Back-to-back visits to Nepal by the Research and Analysis Wing and Indian Army chiefs and foreign secretary Harsh Shringla helped put ties back on an even keel, and foreign minister Pradeep Gyawali travelled to New Delhi late last year to co-chair a meeting of the bilateral joint commission with external affairs minister S Jaishankar. Political parties have described Oli’s move to dissolve parliament as unconstitutional and nearly 150 members of the dissolved House approached Nepal’s Supreme Court on Monday to demand its reinstatement. Madhav Kumar Nepal, a member of Oli’s CPN-UML party, and 22 other leaders of the party have endorsed the petition in the Supreme Court, setting the stage for a split in the CPN-UML. Oli has expelled Nepal and 10 more leaders from the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/political-developments-in-nepal-its-internal-matters-says-india-101622012534105.html
26-05-2021||India||PM Narendra Modi lauds selfless service by Corona warriors on Buddh Purnima||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday lauded the followers of Buddhism for contributing generously in the fight against Covid-19 pandemic, while saluting the frontline healthcare workers for their “selfless” service during the current crisis engendered by the pandemic.“I once again salute our frontline healthcare workers, doctors, nurses who selflessly risk their lives every day to serve others in need, to those who have suffered and lost their dear ones. I extend condolences,” the PM said.PM Modi made the remarks during his keynote speech, delivered virtually, at the prayer session held by the International Buddhist Confederation in New Delhi on the occasion of Vesak festival, also known as Baisakh Purnima, to commemorate Lord Buddha’s birth, enlightenment, and nirvana. The celebratory events were being held online to contain the threat posed by Covid-19.PM Narendra Modi said that Buddha’s life was about peace, harmony and coexistence and it teaches us to unite against forces spreading hate and mindless violence.“Today, there’re still forces whose existence depends on spreading hate, terror and mindless violence. Such forces don’t believe in liberal democratic principles. Believers of humanity must come together, defeat terror,” he said during his virtual address to mark global celebrations on Buddha Purnima.He added that several individuals and organizations had risen to the occasion to do everything possible to reduce suffering during the worldwide health crisis engendered by the coronavirus disease and also thanked “generous contribution of equipment and materials made by the Buddist organizations and followers of Buddh dharma from the world over.”During his virtual address at the event in the middle of the first wave of the Covid-19 last year, the Prime Minister stressed on India’s commitment to serve humanity and highlighted the country’s supply of critical drugs and humanitarian aid to several countries to help fight the pandemic.On Wednesday, he urged the world not to lose sight of other big challenges like climate change while continuing the fight against Covid-19.“...one of the biggest challenges is that of climate change. The reckless lifestyle of the present threatens the coming generations,” he said.PM Modi noted that weather patterns are changing, glaciers are melting, rivers and forests are in danger.“We cannot let our plants remain wounded. Lord Buddha put emphasis on a way of life where respect for Mother Nature is paramount,” PM Modi said and underlined that India is among the few large economies to be on track to completing the targets of the Paris accord.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-lauds-selfless-service-by-corona-warriors-on-buddh-purnima-101622012292501.html
26-05-2021||India||WhatsApp moves court against government of India. Here’s what it said||WhatsApp has filed a complaint with the Delhi high court against the new guidelines of the government under which digital media companies will have to disclose the identity of the "first originator of information" when asked for it. The Facebook-owned messaging platform with nearly 400 million users in India cited the right to privacy and asked the Delhi High Court to declare that one of the new rules is a violation of privacy rights in India's constitution, according to Reuters.Bloomberg reported that WhatsApp filed the lawsuit in the Delhi High Court on Tuesday evening, citing a spokesperson, and that the case is likely to be considered as early as Wednesday.Also read | WhatsApp sues govt over new digital media rules; cites 2017 SC privacy verdictHere is what WhatsApp said:1. According to Reuters, under the new rules WhatsApp will have to name only people credibly accused of wrongdoing but the company says it cannot do that alone in practice. WhatsApp says to comply with the law it would have break encryption for receivers, as well as "originators", of messages because they are end-to-end encrypted, Reuters added.2. “Requiring messaging apps to ‘trace’ chats is the equivalent of asking us to keep a fingerprint of every single message sent on WhatsApp, which would break end-to-end encryption and fundamentally undermines people’s right to privacy,” the company said in a statement on Wednesday.Also read | Facebook, Twitter, YouTube to face action? Here's what the firms say3. “We have consistently joined civil society and experts around the world in opposing requirements that would violate the privacy of our users. In the meantime, we will also continue to engage with the Government of India on practical solutions aimed at keeping people safe, including responding to valid legal requests for the information available to us,” it added.Also read | Facebook, WhatsApp, Twitter ban from May 26? All you need to know4. Whatsapp will continue to engage with the government “on practical solutions aimed at keeping people safe, including responding to valid legal requests for information,” it added in the statement.Also Read| WhatsApp’s refusal to comply with new rules a clear act of defiance: Centre5. Reuters reported WhatsApp in its complaint cited a 2017 Supreme Court ruling supporting privacy in a case known as Puttaswamy. The top court found then that privacy must be preserved except in cases where legality, necessity and proportionality all weighed against it. WhatsApp argues, Reuters reported, that the law fails all three of those tests, starting with the lack of explicit parliamentary backing.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/whatsapp-moves-court-against-government-of-india-here-s-what-it-said-101622011177936.html
26-05-2021||India||Covid surge: Lancet Citizens’ panel’s 8 recommendations for Centre, state govts||The Lancet Citizens’ Commission has recommended establishing central systems to procure and distribute Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccines free of cost instead of the current policy of decentralised procurement through state governments. This is among the eight-point recommendations proposed by the commission in response to the alarming resurgence of Covid-19 in India.The commission comprises 21 experts and the recommendations were published in an article in the British medical journal, The Lancet, on Wednesday. “In response to the alarming resurgence of Covid-19 in India, authors drawn from the Commission and its network of fellows have proposed eight urgent recommendations in an article in The Lancet. These recommendations are focused on the immediate steps central and state governments must take to help curtail the loss of life and suffering caused by Covid-19 amid the recent surge in cases,” said the Commission in a press statement. Also Read | Covid spreads mainly through ‘airborne route’, says Centre’s revised protocolThe Lancet Citizens’ Commission on Reimagining India’s Health System was launched in December 2020 with the aim of laying out a road map to achieve universal health coverage in India over the next decade.Among other measures suggested by the members of the commission to manage the situation in India are: the organisation and financing of essential health services be decentralised to districts; a transparent national pricing policy and caps on the prices of all essential health services; and evidence-based information on the management of Covid-19 be widely disseminated, including guidance on what not to do.It also suggests that all available human resources, including the private sector, must be marshalled for the Covid-19 response and adequately resourced and supported; community engagement and public participation must lie at the heart of India’s Covid-19 response, with no restrictions on civil society organisations to access resources; transparency and sharing of government data to enable districts to proactively prepare for the likely caseloads in the coming weeks, and surveillance to include urgent investment in genomic sequencing;Finally, the team also recommended that the profound suffering and risk to health caused by loss of livelihoods should be minimised by making provisions for cash transfers by the state to workers in India’s vast informal economy who have lost their jobs and requiring businesses not to lay off their workers.The commission bases its work on a participatory and consultative process with citizens and prominent stakeholders from across India’s health system. The article synthesises and amplifies the suggestions already being made by grassroot workers and experts across the country.“The humanitarian crisis the resurgence has precipitated requires all persons in central and state governments to set aside their political differences and work in solidarity with each other, and with civil society, to implement the eight clearly articulated recommendations in our article,” said Vikram Patel, one of the commission members, in statement.Patel is the Pershing Square Professor of Global Health, Harvard Medical School; Professor, Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, Cambridge, USA; and Co-founder, Sangath, Goa, India.Another member, Poonam Muttreja, executive director, New Delhi’s Population Foundation of India, said, “Covid-19 is the most serious crisis independent India has faced as the virus pushes its way into rural areas where 65% of India lives. We need to enable our country’s innate resilience to kick in and hope that these eight steps will go a long way towards providing that support. All of us and our organisations look forward to partnering with the government and enabling our most vulnerable to survive this pandemic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-surge-lancet-citizens-panel-s-8-recommendations-for-centre-state-govts-101622011633099.html
26-05-2021||India||Come together in fight against Covid-19: Dalai Lama||People must come together to overcome global threats, including Covid-19, Tibetan religious leader Dalai Lama has said.In his message for Buddhists on Buddha Purnima, the Nobel Peace Laureate said that by developing a sense of respect for others and a concern for their welfare, one could reduce their self-centredness, which is the source of many problems.“I started my Buddhist education as a child and although I am now nearly 86 years old, I am still learning. Even though our world has changed substantially since the time of Buddha, the essence of his teaching remains as relevant today as it was 2,600 years ago,” he said in a statement on Wednesday.“…Let us all join together in doing whatever we can to overcome the global threats we face, including the Covid-19 pandemic that has brought such pain and hardship across the world,” he added.He said Buddha's teaching was essentially practical not just for one group of people or one country but for all sentient beings.“People can follow this path according to their ability and inclination,” the spiritual leader said.He further encouraged Buddhists everywhere to discover what the teaching really means to be able to apply it in their life.“This entails listening and reading, thinking about what you have heard and read and making yourself deeply familiar with it."He stressed that Buddha's advice was to avoid harming others and to help them always in whatever way possible.“We can begin to do this by recognising that everyone else is just like us in that...they want happiness and dislike suffering. Seeking joy and freedom from suffering is the birth-right of all beings. But personal happiness very much depends on how we relate to others,” the Dalai Lama said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/come-together-in-fight-against-covid-19-dalai-lama-101622011010445.html
26-05-2021||India||Cyclone Yaas pounds Odisha-Bengal coasts, may move to Jharkhand by midnight||Cyclone Yaas pounded the beach towns in north Odisha and neighbouring West Bengal as it hit the coast around 9 am on Wednesday with a wind speed of 130-140 kmph, inundating the low-lying areas amid a storm surge, officials said.The location of the landfall was north of Dhamra in Odisha's Bhadrak district and 50 km south of Balasore, close to Bahanaga block, on the coast, they said.The wind speed during landfall was at 130-140 kmph, gusting to 155 kmph, as per Doppler radar data."The landfall process is likely to be over by 1 pm. The maximum impact will be in Balasore and Bhadrak districts," Odisha's Special Relief Commissioner PK Jena said.The sea will remain rough till Thursday and the accompanying rain will continue, he said.The wind will slow down by the evening and the cyclone is likely to leave Odisha for Jharkhand by midnight, Jena said.Odisha has shifted 5.8 lakh people to safer places, while West Bengal has moved 15 lakh people ahead of the cyclone.There was no report of any major damage in Odisha though some incidents of trees getting uprooted have taken place, Jena said.West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said most parts of the state were affected by the cyclone and the rain it brought along.She urged the people of the state, particularly those in Purba Medinipur, South 24 Parganas, North 24 Parganas, Paschim Medinipur, Howrah, Hooghly, Purulia and Naida, to stay indoors."Almost the whole of West Bengal has been flooded. Several embankments have been damaged and seawater entered areas like Sagar and Gosaba in South 24 Parganas, as well as coastal areas like Digha, Shankarpur and Mandarmani in East Midnapore. Low lying areas have been extensively damaged," the chief minister said.Banerjee, who monitored the situation from the secretariat the entire night, said that the spring tide has added to the woes.Efforts are being made to evacuate more people from the coastal areas of Digha, she said.Digha in East Midnapore sharees border with Odisha's Balasore district.Banerjee said that 70 km of embankments have been damaged in East Midnapore, while in South 24 Parganas, 15 embankments had met a similar fate.Reports of damage caused due to flooding by river water were received from areas like Joynagar, Basanti, Kultuli, Namkhana in the South 24 Parganas district, she added.The chief minister said that though there has been no report of any disruption in Kolkata, all flyovers have been shut as a precautionary measure."We will keep on monitoring the situation as it may continue for four to six hours after hitting the land," she said.The West Bengal government has opened a centralised control room at the state secretariat and several small control rooms in the coastal areas.The maximum wind speed in Digha reached around 90 km per hour. It was 68 kmph at Fraserganj in South 24 Parganas, and in Kolkata, the highest wind speed was recorded at 62 kmph.In the 24 hours till 8.30 am, Digha received 5.5 cm rainfall, Diamond Harbour got 3.3 cm rainfall, Haldia 3.2 cm rainfall.Kolkata got 2.24 cm rainfall, Salt Lake received 3.05 cm rains, Contai got 5.42 cm rains and Kalaikunda received 2.2 cm rainfall.Banerjee said the NDRF, SDRF and at least 2 lakh policemen are working in tandem to tackle Yaas. The Army has also been kept on stand-by and would be deployed, if needed.Most parts of Odisha also received rains, said Umashankar Dash, a scientist at the Regional Meteorological Centre in Bhubaneswar.Chandbali in Bhadrak district received 27.3 cm rainfall, the highest amount of rainfall in the last 24 hours in the state, followed by Paradip (19.7 cm), Balasore (5.1 cm) Bhubaneswar (4.9 cm).The IMD has forecast massive storm surge for some places like Mohanpur in Bhadrak where the seawater may ingress 9 km into the land.Dash said that surge of 1.5-3.8 metre is likely in the area when the wind speed hits a peak during landfall. The reason behind such a high storm surge is also partially due to full-moon activity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-yaas-pounds-odisha-bengal-coasts-may-move-to-jharkhand-by-midnight-101622011027300.html
26-05-2021||India||Covid spreads mainly through 'airborne route', says Centre's revised protocol||The Union health ministry, in its latest clinical management protocol for Covid-19, has said the majority of the transmission is believed to occur "predominantly through the airborne route and droplet released when the infected person coughs, sneezes or talks". This marks a change from last year's clinical management protocol, published in June 202, in which the ministry said that the infection spreads through close contact, "mainly through respiratory droplets that are released when the infected person coughs, sneezes and talks."A guideline recently issued by the office of the principal scientific adviser to the government has also mentioned that infected aerosols can be carried in the air up to 10 meters.Aerosols from Covid-19 infected person can travel in air upto 10 metres: Govt"Current evidence suggests that the virus spreads mainly between people who are in close contact with each other, typically within 1 metre (short-range). A person can be infected when aerosols or droplets containing the virus are inhaled or come directly into contact with the eyes, nose, or mouth. The virus can also spread in poorly ventilated and/or crowded indoor settings, where people tend to spend longer periods of time in physical proximity. This is because aerosols remain suspended in the air or may travel farther than 1 metre (long-range)," the revised protocol said, attributing the findings to the World Health Organization.Here are some other changes incorporated in the latest protocol:Ivermectin: For patients with mild cases, tablet Ivermectin (200 mcg/kg once a day, to be taken empty stomach) has been recommended for 3 to 5 days (avoid in pregnant and lactating women). This was not included in the last year's protocol.Steroids: The new protocol mentions that systemic oral steroids not indicated in mild disease. If symptoms persist beyond 7 days (persistent fever, worsening cough etc.) consult the treating doctor for treatment with low dose oral steroids.Plasma therapy dropped: As announced earlier, the ministry has dropped convalescent plasma therapy from its list of investigational therapies, which was there in the earlier protocol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-spreads-mainly-through-airborne-route-says-centre-s-revised-protocol-101622010170431.html
26-05-2021||India||Not proved beyond reasonable doubt: Goa court while acquitting Tejpal||The fast-track court, which on Friday acquitted former Tehelka magazine editor Tarun Tejpal of rape and sexual assault, said the prosecution failed to prove the case beyond reasonable doubt while pulling up the Goa Police for trying to suppress crucial pieces of evidence. It cited facts on record and said they create a doubt on the truthfulness of the prosecutrix. “There is also no medical evidence on record on account of delay in lodging of the FIR [First Information Report] and as the prosecutrix had refused to go for medical examination,” said judge Kshama Joshi in her judgment, copies of the which were made available to the parties on Tuesday. “The allegations made by the prosecutrix cannot be said to have been proved beyond [a] reasonable doubt.”The court referred to evidence on record and added the benefit of the doubt was given to the accused because there is no corroborative evidence supporting the allegations. “In this case, the prosecution has failed to discharge the burden proving the guilt of the accused beyond a reasonable doubt.”Also Read | Goa’s Mandovi river was cleaner during lockdown months, study confirmsMuch of the prosecution’s case focussed on the CCTV footage of the corridors of the hotel, where a former colleague of Tejpal accused him of sexually assaulting him in an elevator during a conference in 2013. There were no CCTV cameras inside the elevators. The prosecution relied on the footage from the corridors. The court found the prosecution preserved footage of the hotel’s ground and second floors while that of the first floor was missing.Tejpal’s lawyers accused the investigation officer (IO) in the case of carrying out an unfair investigation to implicate him. “All the evidence documents/that conclude and prove the innocence of the accused have been intentionally suppressed and any line of questioning that can contradict, challenge or prove as outright false the prosecutrix’s version has simply not been conducted so that it is ensured that any such circumstances and evidence in favour of the accused do not see the light of the court,” the defence told the court.“The IO has, in some cases such as the CCTV footage of the first floor Block 7 of... [the hotel], entirely destroyed evidence, knowing that it is necessary for the investigating officer to gather all the evidence through investigation.”The court also took issue with the complainant and the IO being the same person. “[The IO] has admitted that she didn’t move any proposal before her superiors that she being the complainant, the investigation should be handed over to some other officer and claimed that her superiors directed her to investigate the offence. Despite the availability of another Lady Police Inspector of the Crime Branch, the Investigating Officer and her superiors malafidely retained the investigation with the IO who was also the complainant,” the court said.The Goa Police took cognisance of the case on its own when an email Tejpal wrote on the matter became public. Tejpal referred to an “unfortunate incident” between himself and the colleague in the leaked e-mail to Tehelka’s management in 2013. He described the incident “bad lapse of judgment” in the e-mail. But in another note later, he said that he was being “framed”.The Goa government on Tuesday said it will move the high court against the fast-track court’s verdict on Thursday.The case hit the headlines for weeks amid a renewed focus on crimes against women. It surfaced a year after the rape and murder of a 23-year-old student on a moving bus in Delhi provoked national outrage and prompted the government to pass tougher laws to check such crimes. The allegations against Tejpal also triggered a debate on harassment of women at workplaces and underreporting of such cases over fears of job losses and persecution.Tejpal faced the trial under India Penal Code’s Sections 376 (rape), 354 A (sexual harassment), 354 B (criminal assault with intent to disrobe a woman), 341 (wrongful restraint), and 342 (wrongful confinement).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-proved-beyond-reasonable-doubt-goa-court-while-acquitting-tejpal-101622010073183.html
26-05-2021||India||India has administered over 200mn Covid vaccine doses till now||India achieved a significant milestone on Tuesday by administering over 200million coronavirus vaccine doses since the nationwide campaign began in January. In what could boost the drive further, US pharma giant Moderna was expected to launch its single-dose vaccine in India by 2022 even as Pfizer was ready to offer 50 million shots this year itself.Meanwhile, by Tuesday 8pm, 200,494,991 vaccine doses had been given in India. This includes 9,794,835 healthcare workers who have had their first dose and 6,728,443 who have got their second dose as well. As many as 15,162,077 frontline workers have had their first dose while 8,377,270 have got their second dose too.In the 45-59-year age group, 62,047,952 people have got their first dose and another 10,024,157 have had their second dose as well. In the 60+ category, 57,119,900 people have been administered their first dose while 18,365,811 have had their second dose as well.Also Read | Bharat Biotech expects WHO nod by September. What does it mean for Indians?In the newly added category of 18-45 year age group, 942,796 beneficiaries received their first dose of Covid vaccine on Tuesday and cumulatively, 12,874,546 of this age group have been vaccinated across 37 states and Union Territories.As many as 1,877,419 vaccine doses were given by the evening. Of this, 1,690,691 beneficiaries were vaccinated with the first dose and 186,728 beneficiaries received their second dose as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-over-200mn-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101622009652870.html
26-05-2021||India||Kashmir students say they are underprepared amid talk of holding CBSE exams||Baiza Bashir, a student at a Central Board for Secondary Education (CBSE) affiliated school in Kashmir, was promoted to Class 12 in 2020 amid the Covid-19 pandemic that forced schools globally to switch to online classes. But many like her were left to fend for themselves until high-speed 4G internet was finally restored in February in Jammu & Kashmir over a year after it was blocked in August 2019 when the region was stripped of its semi-autonomous status. “We could hardly attend online classes like the rest of Indian students,” said Bashir.Students like her say they remain unprepared for exams as most states on Tuesday told the Union education ministry that CBSE Class 12 examinations should be conducted. They say the education system in Jammu & Kashmir has been virtually defunct since August 2019 when a lockdown and communications blockade was imposed in the region to prevent protests against the nullification of the Constitution’s Article 370 that ended the region’s special semi-autonomous status.Most schools in the region are affiliated to Jammu & Kashmir State Board of School Education, which has conducted the Class 12th in the Kashmir Valley.Also Read | Goa police files appeal against Tarun Tejpal’s acquittal in High CourtJanifer Salati, another Class 12th class student due to appear for CBSE exams, recalled how cumbersome it was to download apps for online classes. “With 2G [slow speed internet] network, Zoom classes would buffer so much that hardly anything could be heard, leave alone taking notes....” She added there have been no such thing as mock tests or any other monthly evaluative exams. “We definitely did not take any exam on the CBSE pattern. Now if the CBSE is expecting us to outperform in this exam, it would be totally unfair.”Kamran Asif, a third student, said lockdowns in Kashmir also impacted their preparations for Class 11th exams and this has hurt particularly science stream students as they prepare for Class 12 tests. He added it matters what they learnt in Class 11. “...we hardly attended any classes of the 11th standard because the situation back then was very uncertain.” Asif added this has impacted their comprehension. He added they also fear no matter how sanitised the schools will be, they will have to take exams in closed spaces. “It is not possible to keep wearing masks for three hours together in a closed crowded [exam] hall.”Asif said they will ideally want the CBSE to come up with an alternative assessment system that does not require the physical appearance of students. “...delaying exams further is not an option. We have to apply for admissions to colleges...”Rafiq Ahmad Sofi, a teacher at a CBSE affiliated school, said the promotion of students on the basis of remote or internal assessment will put the students at a disadvantage when they apply for admissions abroad. “The foreign universities will obviously give preference to the students who have scored better grades by taking written exams rather than those who have not even appeared in them,” said Sofi. “The assessment based on internal and practical exams conducted in schools should be the last resort... only the offline exams would be in the best interest of the students.”Additional secretary (education) Naseer Wani refused to comment. Rajeev Rai Bhatnagar, the advisor to Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on education, was unavailable for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashmir-students-say-they-are-underprepared-amid-talk-of-holding-cbse-exams-101622008813003.html
26-05-2021||India||Cyclone Yaas: 5 airports shut, 38 passenger trains cancelled||Airports in Kolkata and Durgapur in West Bengal and Odisha’s Bhubaneswar, Jharsuguda and Rourkela will remain shut for commercial flights as the powerful Cyclone Yass begun landfall between Dhamra and Balasore, Airports Authority of India (AAI) said on Wednesday. "The closure will be reviewed as per the weather. Airports directed to carry restoration to restart operations ASAP,” AAI said in a series of tweets.The authority said that Bhubaneswar's Biju Patnaik International Airport will be closed from 11pm on Tuesday till 5am on Thursday, Jharsuguda airport from 12.01am on Wednesday till 7.45am on Thursday. Durgapur and Rourkela airports will also be closed on Wednesday. Flight operations in Kolkata will be suspended from 8.30am to 7.45pm on Wednesday.WATCH| Cyclone Yaas makes landfall; heavy rain & gusty winds hit OdishaMeanwhile, more than 30 passenger trains were cancelled till May 29, the Indian Railways said on Tuesday. "38 long-distance South-bound and Kolkata-bound passenger trains will remain cancelled from May 24 to 29...The Railways authority will refund the ticket charges of the passengers," the North East Frontier Railway said in a statement.The landfall process of Cyclone Yaas begun near Dhamra port in Odisha at 9.15am, even as strong winds and heavy tides saw seawater ingress in many coastal towns and villages in Odisha and West Bengal.Odisha's special relief commissioner PK Jena told reporters that the landfall process has begun and will take three to four hours to complete. He said the maximum impact will be in Balasore and Bhadrak districts, adding the location of landfall is north of Dhamra and south of Bahanaga close to Bahanaga block on the coast.Jena said the landfall of Cyclone Yaas has been delayed for some hours with the velocity of the system decreasing to 12kmph from 15 to 16kmph. He said the cyclone has not intensified further after 2am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-yaas-5-airports-shut-38-passenger-trains-cancelled-101622005685203.html
26-05-2021||India||Cyclone Yaas triggers heavy rains in Kerala||Heavy rains pounded many areas of south and north Kerala on Wednesday under the influence of cyclone Yaas while three fishermen who had ventured into the sea from Vizinjam in Thiruvananthapuram were missing after strong winds destroyed their vessel. Seven fishermen of the damaged boat managed to swim across and they were hospitalised. Coast guard and marine police have started search for the missing. Click here for Cyclone Yaas LIVE UpdatesAccording to the regional meteorological centre in Thiruvananthapuram, some areas in north Kerala received 10cm rain in the last 24 hours and the state capital recorded 9cm rainfall. Yellow alert has been sounded in at least nine districts of the state. Gushing winds uprooted many trees, destroyed houses in several parts of the state and costal hamlets bore the maximum brunt as strong tides devoured many areas. Met office said conditions are favourable for the onset of the south-west monsoon in the state, the first stopover of the yearly quota of downpour. It is likely to lash the state on May 31 with three variable days of difference. The IMD said the monsoon advanced towards Maldivian islands on Tuesday and clouds have started their journey towards the Indian subcontinent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-yaas-triggers-heavy-rains-in-kerala-101622007433403.html
26-05-2021||India||Newly elected BPF MLA succumbs to post-Covid19 complications in Assam||Newly-elected Bodoland Peoples’ Party (BPF) legislator Majendra Narzary, 68, died on Wednesday while undergoing treatment for Covid-19 complications at the Guwahati Medical College Hospital. Narzary tested negative for Covid-19 a few days back but remained on ventilator. He had co-morbidities like diabetes and hypertension and reportedly suffered a brain-stroke on Wednesday morning. Also Read | Covid-19 vaccine absolutely important to defeat pandemic: PM Modi“Extremely saddened at the sudden demise of our ‘mahajot’ (grand alliance) partner MLA [member of legislative assembly] of BPF, Majendra Narzary. My heartfelt condolences to the family and friends of late Narzary. May his soul rest in eternal peace,” state Congress president Ripun Bora tweeted. A former headmaster of a high school, Narzary represented the Gossaigaon seat four times since 2006. He was one of the four BPF lawmakers in the 126-member state assembly and was part of the opposition.Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma expressed condolences on Narzary’s death. “Assam lost a sincere politician. I pray for eternal peace of his soul and offer condolences to his family,” he said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/newly-elected-bpf-mla-succumbs-to-post-covid19-complications-in-assam-101622006592782.html
26-05-2021||India||I grieve with them, says PM Modi as he condoles Covid-19 deaths||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Wednesday the coronavirus pandemic is the worst crisis humanity has faced in decades and has not seen a crisis like this in a century as India recorded more than 27 million cases of Covid-19 so far. “The pandemic has impacted every nation… Our planet will not be same after Covid-19. In the times to come, we will remember events in the future as either pre- or post-Covid,” PM Modi said while speaking during the virtual Vesak Global Celebrations on Buddha Purnima.PM Modi gave the keynote speech at the online prayer session held by the International Buddhist Confederation as Buddhists around the world celebrated Vesak to observe Buddha’s birth, enlightenment and death amid restrictions imposed to fight the coronavirus pandemic.Also watch | ‘Our planet will not remain the same’: PM Modi on Covid second wave, vaccines﻿﻿“We now have a better understanding of the pandemic which strengthens our strategy to fight it. Most importantly, we have the vaccine which is absolutely important to save lives and defeat the pandemic,” the Prime Minister said. “The emergence of a vaccine in a year of the pandemic striking shows the power of human determination and tenacity. India is proud of our scientists who have worked on the Covid-19 vaccines,” he added.Also read | Covid-19 vaccine absolutely important to defeat pandemic: PM ModiAs PM Modi stressed on the importance of vaccine to save lives and defeat the coronavirus pandemic, he also acknowledged frontline and healthcare workers for their contribution. “I once again salute our first responders, frontline healthcare workers, doctors, nurses and volunteers who selflessly risked their lives every day to serve others in need. To those who have suffered and lost their near and dear ones, I would like to extend condolences. I grieve with them,” he said.Also read | 2.08 lakh new Covid-19 cases reported in 24 hours, declining trend maintainedLast year, the Prime Minister during his virtual address at the event in the middle of the first wave of the pandemic stressed on India’s commitment to serve humanity and highlighted the country’s supply of critical drugs and humanitarian aid to several countries to help fight the crisis.Vesak is a special day to mark three key events in Buddha’s life, his birthday, the attainment of enlightenment and the achievement of Nirvana. The United Nations acknowledged it as the International Day of Vesak in 1999 and it is celebrated internationally, including at UN offices and Unesco, since then.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-grieve-with-them-says-pm-modi-as-he-condoles-covid-19-deaths-101622006051436.html
26-05-2021||India||Bharat Biotech expects WHO nod by September. What does it mean for Indians?||Bharat Biotech, the maker of India's first indigenous vaccine Covaxin, has applied to the World Health Organization for emergency use listing of its vaccine. The company has said the approvals are expected anytime between July and September. The vaccine has already received emergency use authorised in 13 countries, which include Mexico, the Philippines, Iran, Paraguay, Guatemala, Nicaragua, Guyana, Venezuela, Botswana, and Zimbabwe.Why is WHO's emergency use listing significant?WHO assesses the quality, safety and efficacy of Covid-19 vaccines before including a vaccine on its emergency use list. Only then the vaccine can be considered part of WHO's COVAX facility. Covishield, the other vaccine of India, has already been listed.Will WHO listing be considered as a vaccine passport?As the pandemic is raging in many parts of the world, including India, the international travel ban remains in effect. When the countries begin to reopen, they might insist on a vaccine passport, which is nothing but the certification of vaccination. As WHO's authorisation attests to a product's safety and efficacy, country's may only allow people vaccinated by one of the jabs listed by WHO.Does this mean people vaccinated with Covaxin won't be allowed to travel?No country has yet mandated a vaccine passport yet for international travel. Countries which haven't banned Indian flights in the wake of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic will allow travellers who have tested negative in RT-PCR tests. It's not yet known whether countries which have barred Indian travellers will allow only vaccinated travellers.Lav Agarwal, joint secretary of the union health ministry recently said there has been no consensus on vaccine passport at the WHO level, though a discussion is on. "So far, there's no consensus at the level of WHO over this. Discussion is still being done if vaccinated people will be allowed. As of now, as per WHO guidelines and guidelines by countries, people with negative Covid test report are being allowed. Relevant action will be taken when a consensus at the world level is reached," Agarwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-biotech-expects-who-nod-by-september-what-does-it-mean-for-indians-101622005134071.html
26-05-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccine absolutely important to defeat pandemic: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Wednesday that the planet will not be the same after COVID-19 and noted that the events in future will be remembered as either pre or post-Covid.Delivering the keynote address on the occasion of "Virtual Vesak Global Celebrations" on Buddha Purnima, he said the world has not seen a pandemic like this in a century.However, he added, there is now a better understanding of the pandemic, and described vaccine as absolutely important to save lives and defeat the virus.He also extended condolences to those who have suffered and lost near and dear ones in the pandemic, and said he grieved with them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccine-absolutely-important-to-defeat-pandemic-pm-modi-101622005482350.html
26-05-2021||India||WhatsApp moves Delhi high court against new guidelines||WhatsApp on Tuesday moved the Delhi high court against the new rules announced in February for digital media companies, saying the requirement for them to adopt features such as traceability for identifying originators of messages violated the right to privacy under the Indian law and the company’s end-to-end encryption policy. It said the company does not believe traceability can be imposed in a way that cannot be spoofed or modified, leading to new ways for people to be framed for things they did not say or do.WhatsApp moved the court on the day the deadline for social media companies to put in place new mechanisms to comply with the rules ended. At least one company, Facebook, has said it was working on the new rules but that “a few of the issues need more engagement with the government”.The rules pertain to new guidelines notified under the Information Technology Act on February 25. They gave digital media companies three months to implement new content moderation mechanisms, appoint new officers who will be liable for compliance, and adopt features such as traceability of messages.The company said it is committed to doing all it can to protect the privacy of people’s personal messages and that is why it is opposing traceability. “Requiring messaging apps to ‘trace’ chats is the equivalent of asking us to keep a fingerprint of every single message sent on WhatsApp, which would break end-to-end encryption and fundamentally undermines people’s right to privacy,” a WhatsApp spokesperson said. “We have consistently joined civil society and experts around the world in opposing requirements that would violate the privacy of our users.” The company said it will also continue to engage with the government of India on practical solutions aimed at keeping people safe, including responding to valid legal requests for the information available to WhatsApp.In a blog, WhatsApp said some governments were seeking to force technology companies to find out who sent a particular message on private messaging services. It cited technology and privacy experts and said they have determined that traceability breaks end-to-end encryption and would severely undermine the privacy of billions of people who communicate digitally. “Reasonable and proportionate regulations for an increasingly digital world are important, but eroding privacy for everyone, violating human rights, and putting innocent people at risk is not the solution.”WhatsApp has opposed moves that violate its end-to-end encryption. A similar case of the company is pending in the Supreme Court of Brazil.HT reached out to the ministry of electronics and information technology for comments but did not receive a response immediately.An official on Tuesday said the rules had been notified and no further discussions on those were happening. On Monday, officials warned of stern action if the companies did not adhere to the deadline. They added none of the companies have informed the government of the compliance or shared details of the officers they were meant to have appointed on their websites.Also Watch | Could India ban Facebook, Twitter, WhatsApp, Instagram? New rules explainedThe new policy also includes bringing digital news publishers under the ambit of Section 69(A) of the Information Technology (IT) Act. The provision empowers the government to order the blocking of access to content that is considered a threat to public order.An officer, who will head an inter-ministerial committee at the apex of the three-tier self-regulatory system, can also issue this order under emergency circumstances where the companies will not be given a chance for explanation. The committee will have to meet within 48 hours to ratify the emergency block.The news media publishers and over the top (or streaming) such as Netflix and Hotstar, will fall under the ambit of the ministry of information and broadcasting. Also Read| WhatsApp’s refusal to comply with new rules a clear act of defiance: CentreThe rules also mandate increased due diligence by social media companies and data sharing with enforcement agencies.Under part four of the guidelines, the intermediaries are required to appoint compliance officers, “responsible for ensuring compliance with the Act and rules” and be “liable in any proceedings relating to any relevant third-party information, data or communication link made available or hosted by that intermediary where he fails to ensure that such intermediary observes due diligence while discharging its duties under the Act”.Intermediaries are also required to appoint nodal contact persons for 24x7 coordination with law enforcement agencies and resident grievance officers.Koo, the Indian social media app, has announced it had complied with the new requirements and appointed a resident grievance officer, chief compliance officer, and nodal contact officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/whatsapp-moves-delhi-high-court-against-new-guidelines-101622004852954.html
26-05-2021||India||President Biden expected to name Eric Garcetti as ambassador to India||US President Joe Biden is expected to nominate Los Angeles mayor Eric Garcetti as the ambassador to India by next week as part of the process of naming several political appointees as envoys to key countries, according to a media report on Wednesday. Garcetti was described as a “trusted political ally” of Biden in the report by Axios, which cited people familiar with the matter. The ambassadorial nominations, which are expected as early as next week, are seen as rewards for political allies and major donors, the report said. Biden has called some applicants to “offer them the country where he wants them to serve”, the report added. “Those one-on-one calls speak to the premium Biden places on personal relationships in his diplomatic worldview. They’re also a reminder that ambassadors are directly answerable to the president,” Axios reported. Also Read | Floyd family meets Biden a year after death, push for law“The White House is still finishing the vetting process for potential ambassadors, including Garcetti, whose office called an Axios report earlier this month that he was being considered for an ambassadorship ‘speculative’,” the report said. Once the vetting process is complete, Biden is expected to send more than a dozen names to the US Senate to begin the confirmation process for his first batch of political ambassadors. Garcetti served as co-chair of Biden’s presidential campaign and was initially considered for the cabinet. His chances reportedly diminished after a sexual harassment lawsuit against one of his former aides, Rick Jacobs, got national attention. A Garcetti spokesperson and the White House declined to comment to Axios. Biden began reviewing names of potential ambassadors in March and officials are “putting a premium on diversity in assembling the first batch” of names to be sent to the Senate. According to Axios, other names being considered for ambassadorial positions are career diplomat Nick Burns for China, former deputy secretary of state Tom Nides for Israel, former Chicago mayor and White House chief of staff Rahm Emanuel for Japan, international lawyer Mark Gittenstein for US envoy to the European Union, and Cindy McCain, widow of John McCain, for ambassador to the World Food Program in Rome. Last month, the Biden administration appointed former deputy secretary of state Daniel Smith as the chargé d’affaires in New Delhi to spearhead close cooperation between the two countries, especially for the Covid-19 response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-biden-expected-to-name-eric-garcetti-as-ambassador-to-india-101622004432704.html
26-05-2021||India||Assam extends Corona curfew till June 5; offices in urban areas to stay closed||Assam on Tuesday extended the curfew to contain the spread of Covid-19 till June 5 and added some new restrictions for rural areas while government and private offices in urban areas continue to remain shut.“Though it is observed that the containment measures taken so far have been effective over the last few days, adequate measures for both urban and rural areas are still of utmost necessity in order to further contain Covid-19 across the state,” said an order issued by chief secretary Jishnu Baruah.As per the new order, all shops and business establishments in rural areas will shut down at 1 pm on all days and people’s movement will be banned from 2 pm to 5 am. All restaurants and eateries will be allowed home delivery of food after 1pm, while those housed in resorts and hotels will be allowed to operate dine-in for in-house guests as per their usual timings.Among other exceptions, cold storages and warehouses in rural areas will be allowed to remain open after 1 pm. But sale counters, showrooms etc. attached to these warehouses or cold storages shall not operate after 1 pm.In urban areas, all offices, both government and non-government, will remain closed and shops, markets and business establishments will have to down shutters at 11 am on all days.There will be a ban on movement of vehicles and persons in urban areas between 12 pm and 5 am on all days. Vehicles will be allowed on roads during the designated hours following an odd-even formula. However, this restriction shall not apply for private vehicles used for medical emergencies, the order states.Essential and emergency services and their employees too have been exempted from the restrictions.Educational institutions will remain closed, but have been asked to provide quality options for online classes.Marriages, religious functions and funeral/last rites will have to be conducted with a maximum presence of 10 persons. All religious places will be closed for 15 days, but their religious heads will be allowed to continue conducting minimal rituals.All public transport will operate but only with 30% capacity. Auto-rickshaws, taxis and e-rickshaws can operate with one driver and two passengers. Pillion riding will be prohibited in two-wheelers with exceptions for women and children.The existing ban on inter-district movement of vehicles and persons will also remain in place till June 5.While the Covid-19 test positivity rate (TPR) in Assam has gone down to around 5% in the past few days, the state has still been recording 5,500-6,000 new cases and around 80 deaths daily. On Tuesday, the state recorded 5,767 new cases and 92 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-extends-corona-curfew-till-june-5-offices-in-urban-areas-to-stay-closed-101622003713698.html
26-05-2021||India||Cyclone Yaas makes landfall; heavy rains in Odisha||Very severe cyclonic storm Yaas started battering the northern coastline of Odisha with powerful winds and rains on Wednesday morning as it made landfall at Bahanaga block around 9am with sustained wind speed of 130 to 140 kmph gusting up to 155 kmph.The director of regional meterological centre, HR Biswas, said the landfall process will continue for the next 3-4 hours with a sustained wind speed of 130 to 140 kmph gusting up to 155 kmph along and off Bhadrak and Balasore districts. Similarly, the wind speed is likely to remain 100-110 kmph gusting to 120 kmph along and off Kendrapara district. It will decrease gradually after the landfall, becoming 65-75 kmph gusting to 85 kmph by evening. After landfall, the system is very likely to move northwestwards across interior districts of Odisha and weaken gradually.WATCH| Cyclone Yaas makes landfall; heavy rain & gusty winds hit Odisha﻿﻿Under the impact of the cyclone, very heavy rains were reported from Chandbali in Bhadrak and Paradip in Jagatsinghpur districts. In the last 24 hours, Chandbali reported 27.3cm of rainfall followed by 19.7cm at Paradip. Due to the tidal surge, sea water entered villages in Talsara region of Jaleswar block of Balasore district.Click here for Cyclone Yaas LIVE Updates The first report of cyclone-related casualty came from Keonjhar district when an elderly man was crushed to death after strong winds uprooted a tree at Panchapalli village under Anandapur block. In Balasore town, a 20-year-old man was seriously injured after a tree fell on him at Railway Colony. In Chandipur coast, sea water entered a hotel resort.Odisha special relief commissioner PK Jena said that ahead of the landfall, more than 500,000 people have been shifted to various cyclone and flood shelters across the coast.Jena said light to moderate rainfall at many places with heavy to very heavy rainfall and extremely heavy rainfall of more than 20 cm is likely at isolated places in Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapara, Jajpur, Bhadrak, Balasore, Mayurbhanj, Cuttack, Dhenkanal, and Keonjhargarh. Heavy rainfall is likely at isolated places in Puri, Khurda, Angul, Deogarh, and Sundergarh on Wednesday. Tidal waves of height 2-3 metres above astronomical tide are likely to inundate low lying areas of Balasore, Bhadrak and about 2 metres above the astronomical tide are likely to inundate low lying areas of Medinipur, South 24 Parganas, Kendrapara, & Jagatsinghpur districts around the time of the landfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-yaas-makes-landfall-heavy-rains-in-odisha-101622003535088.html
26-05-2021||India||No march to Delhi says leader, as farmers observe ‘Black Day' today||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait said on Wednesday farmers observing a 'Black Day' to mark six months of the agitation against the three central agricultural laws will not march to Delhi. “We are also carrying the tricolour. It has been six months now but the government is not listening to us. So farmers are putting up black flags. It will be done peacefully,” Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait said, according to news agency ANI. “We are following Covid protocols. Nobody is coming here. People are putting up flags wherever they are,” he added.Also read | Shun indifference, hold talks with farmers: Sukhbir Badal to ModiSamkyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of protesting unions, announced that farmers will observe May 26 as 'Black Day' to mark the completion of six months. Twelve major opposition parties, including the Congress, Trinamool Congress, Left parties, Samajwadi Party, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and DMK, last week extended their support to the protest.The Morcha said in a statement on Tuesday that the farmer’s movement is “running on truth and non-violence and will be completing six months of its historical struggle on Wednesday". "SKM requests all Indians to celebrate and mark Buddha Poornima tomorrow, so that truth and non-violence find a strong place back in our community, at a time when attempts are being made to erode these basic values in our society," it said in the statement.Also read | Ready to resume talks with Centre over farm laws: BKU leader Rakesh TikaitOn Tuesday, Tikait will burn the effigy of the government and said farmers will not march towards the national capital. "Nobody is coming towards Delhi. Whoever wishes to protest will use a black flag and put it outside their home or on their vehicle," Tikait told ANI.Tikait said the farmers have been protesting for the past six months but the government has "not taken back its black laws". He said they have written to the Centre about their concerns. "If the government can bring in laws during the pandemic, it can surely revoke them also. We are not going anywhere, we will stay here. We have a lot of time," Tikait added.Also read | At UP Gate, Covid takes a toll on protesters strengthThe Delhi Police have urged people not to hold gatherings amid the coronavirus pandemic and the ongoing lockdown and said it is keeping a tight vigil to deal with any situation at the protest sites on the city's borders. Delhi Police’s spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal said action will be taken against those who try to take the law into their hands, adding that the force is already present at all borders points, including the protest sites of Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur, and will not allow any illegal activity or entry.Also watch | Ahead of farmers’ 'black day' protest, Delhi Police warns against gatherings"We urge people not to gather as the virus could spread and the cases escalate. We appeal to the citizens to observe COVID- appropriate behaviour and lockdown which is still imposed in the city. There is no permission of gathering and demonstration due to the ongoing situation," Biswal said.Also read | Sonia Gandhi slams Centre for ‘anti-people’ activities, exploiting farmersHundreds of farmers are currently at five sites near Delhi’s borders: Singhu, Ghaziabad, Tikri, Dhansa and Shahjahanpur (on the Rajasthan-Haryana border). Farmers’ unions, especially from Haryana and Punjab, are demanding the rollback of the three laws passed in September last year to lift restrictions on trade of farm produce to allow more private investments. Farmers say these changes will leave them at the mercy of large corporations and supermarkets.The farmers have been protesting since November 26 last year against the farm laws passed by the Centre, including the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-march-to-delhi-says-leader-as-farmers-observe-black-day-today-101622002248405.html
26-05-2021||India||2.08 lakh new Covid-19 cases reported in 24 hours, declining trend maintained||India on Wednesday recorded 2.08 lakh fresh Covid-19 cases, maintaining the ongoing declining trend, though the 24-hour tally registers a slight increase from the number of cases reported on Tuesday. With this, the total tally reaches 2,71,57795, with a daily positivity rate of 9.42 per cent, the health ministry's bulletin showed. In the last 24 hours, over 22 lakh samples were tested for Covid-19, which is the highest single-day test. India’s daily recoveries continue to outnumber the daily new cases for the 13th consecutive day on Wednesday, as 2,95,955 recoveries were registered in the last 24 hours. With recoveries surpassing new cases, the number of India's active Covid-19 cases on Wednesday fell to 24,95591, a decline of 91,191 cases in 24 hours. Also Read | Covid-19: What you need to know today A total of 4,157 fatalities were recorded in the last 24 hours. On Tuesday, India's daily case dropped below two lakh after 40 days as 1,96,427 fresh infections were reported. On April 14, when the second wave of the pandemic was at its peak, the country crossed the landmark of 2 lakh cases. Since then, the number of daily cases has been on a steady increase and on April 30, the country became the first in the world to report over 4 lakh infections in 24 hours.From the second week of May, the daily rise started to dip and reached the lowest on Tuesday.Amid visible signs of the peak of the second wave receding, the Centre has asked states and Union territories to ramp up vaccination as the Centre has provided them with stocks till June 15. The need for containment measures in rural, peri-urban and tribal areas, areas which remained unaffected during the first wave but could not resist the second one, has also been stressed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/208-lakh-new-covid-19-cases-reported-in-24-hours-declining-trend-maintained-101621999989243.html
26-05-2021||India||Heavy rain, strong winds and storm surge hit Bengal as Cyclone Yaas makes landfall||Heavy rain, strong winds and storm surge have started battering the coastal districts of West Bengal since early morning on Wednesday as very severe cyclone Yaas made a landfall around 9am. The meteorological department’s regional office in Kolkata had earlier predicted the landfall around noon. Morning reports said sea and river water gushed into low lying areas, inundating many places along the coast, such as Digha and Shankharpur in East Midnapore district, which shares its border with Odisha. In the Sunderban delta, which comprises 102 islands, breaches in embankments were reported from some islands including Gosaba, allowing the saline river water to enter the villages. In some areas, river water entered the villages after its level shot up because of the storm surge and the tide. In Kolkata, strong winds gusting up to 60km per hour and rain were recorded since morning. The winds were expected to get stronger with the landfall of the cyclone. Click here for Cyclone Yaas LIVE UpdatesIMD officials had warned that as cyclone Yaas has coincided with the perigean spring tide, which occurs on full moon, coastal districts in the state could witness storm surge of 2m – 4m over and above the astronomical tide (spring tide). “The maximum damage would be caused by the storm surge this time. On May 26, when the cyclone hits, there is also the spring tide. Damage would be the maximum in the coastal districts of East Midnapore and South 24 Parganas,” Sanjib Banerjee, deputy director general of IMD’s regional office in Kolkata, had said on Tuesday. Till Tuesday evening, the state government had evacuated around 1.1 million people from vulnerable areas in the districts and shifted them to around 4,000 cyclone shelters and school buildings being used as relief centres. “The cyclone could affect around 20 districts while the three coastal districts of East Midnapore, North 24 Parganas and South 24 Parganas, along with Kolkata, would bear the main brunt,” chief minister Mamata Banerjee had told reporters on Tuesday late evening. The CM, along with some top bureaucrats and cabinet ministers, spend the night at the control room set up at the state secretariat. Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar also visited the control room in the evening. The state government has deployed a 300,000-people strong force, from bureaucrats to civic volunteers and home guards, for disaster management and relief work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rain-strong-winds-and-storm-surge-hit-bengal-as-cyclone-yaas-makes-landfall-101622002032703.html
26-05-2021||India||Very severe Cyclone Yaas nears Odisha, West Bengal coasts: All you need to know||Very severe cyclonic storm Yaas, which is set to make landfall on Wednesday, has reached close to Odisha and West Bengal coasts, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). It is centered about 40 km east of Odisha's Dhamra, 80 km south southeast of Balasore, and 80 km south-southwest Digha in West Bengal. The speed of the storm at 7.30am was 130 to 140 kmph.VERY SEVERE CYCLONIC STORM ‘YAAS’ CENTRED ABOUT 40 KM EAST OF DHAMRA AND 90 KM SOUTH-SOUTHEAST OF https://t.co/usAtM8ohaq CROSS NORTH ODISHA-WEST BENGAL COASTS TO THE NORTH OF DHAMRA AND SOUTH OF BALASORE NOON OF 26TH MAY AS A VSCS WITH WIND SPEED OF 130-140 KMPH. pic.twitter.com/UW0y8KfJRECyclone Yaas is likely to move north-northwestwards and cross north Odisha and West Bengal coasts to north of Dhamra and south of Balasore during noon on Wednesday.Here is all you need to know about Cyclone Yaas:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/very-severe-cyclone-yaas-nears-odisha-west-bengal-coasts-all-you-need-to-know-101621996602056.html
26-05-2021||India||Cyclone Yaas: 38 South-bound, Kolkata-bound passenger trains cancelled||In view of the impending cyclone Yaas, 38 long-distance South-bound and Kolkata-bound passenger trains were cancelled from May 24 to 29, informed Railways Public Relations Officer (PRO) on Tuesday."38 long-distance South-bound and Kolkata-bound passenger trains will remain cancelled from May 24 to 29...The Railways authority will refund the ticket charges of the passengers," as per the North East Frontier Railway's statement.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Tuesday predicted that the cyclone Yaas is going to intensity into a 'very severe cyclonic storm' in the next 12 hours."The severe cyclonic storm Yaas over the east-central Bay of Bengal moved north-northwestwards with a speed of about 9 kmph during past six hours. It is very likely to intensify further into a very severe cyclonic storm during the next 12 hours. It would continue to move north-northwestwards, intensify further and reach the northwest Bay of Bengal near North Odisha and West Bengal coasts by May 26 early morning," the weather agency said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-yaas-38-south-bound-kolkata-bound-passenger-trains-cancelled-101621999707244.html
26-05-2021||India||PM Narendra Modi to address international Buddhist event on Baisakh Purnima||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will give the keynote speech at the online prayer session held by the International Buddhist Confederation in Delhi on Wednesday May 26, when Buddhists around the world are celebrating Vesak (also known as Baisakh Purnima in India) to commemorate Buddha’s birth, enlightenment, and nirvana amid restrictions imposed to fight Covid-19 pandemic.The prayer session will be telecast on the Facebook page of the Mahabodhi temple, where Lord Buddha attained enlightenment at Bodh Gaya and from Lumbini, the birth site of Lord Buddha in Nepal and Candy in Sri Lanka.During his virtual address at the event in the middle of the first wave of the Covid-19 last year, the Prime Minister stressed on India’s commitment to serve humanity and highlighted the country’s supply of critical drugs and humanitarian aid to several countries to help fight the pandemic.The virtual programme will be attended by many believers, monks, scholars and experts, who will offer prayers, chant Buddhist Sutras and also discuss Buddhist philosophy.No visitors will be allowed at the Mahabodhi temple due to the ongoing lockdown to contain the number of Covid cases in Bihar. “But there will be prayers in the Mahayana and Thearavada traditions. It will be followed by the Kheer Daan and Chivar Daan,” Gajendra Kumar, an official of the Bodh Gaya Temple Management Committee (BTMC) said. The prayers will start at 8am and will be telecast live on the Facebook page of the BTMC. Anybody can participate in this online prayers session, he added.Live prayers and chanting of Buddhist Sutras have been planned at 101 sites across the world during the Vesak festival. The Sri Lanka Broadcasting Corporation has been airing the Ratana Sutta since last week with prayers to ease Covid-19 surge in India.In Bihar it will be held at Silao, a site believed to be connected to Mahakasyapa, an enlightened disciple of Buddha and also to Shilabhadra, another Buddhist scholar and vice chancellor of the ancient Nalanda University.Vesak is a special day to mark three key events in Buddha’s life, his birthday, the attainment of enlightenment and the achievement of Nirvana.The United Nations acknowledged it as the International Day of Vesak in 1999 and since then it’s celebrated internationally including at the UN offices and at UNESCO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-to-address-international-buddhist-event-on-vesak-101621999632982.html
26-05-2021||India||Maharashtra Covid tally drops; home isolation banned in 18 districts||Maharashtra on Tuesday recorded 24,136 new Covid-19 cases and 601 deaths. The total number of tests conducted on Tuesday was 264,275. The total number of people affected by Covid-19 in the state so far stands at 5,626,155.There are currently 314,368 active patients across the state. Pune tops the list with 45,648 cases, followed by Mumbai with 27,855. The death toll has now reached 90,349, with Mumbai leading with 14,650 deaths, followed by Pune with 11,747 deaths.Also Read | Maharashtra to get 60k vials of black fungus medicineMeanwhile, the state government has banned home isolation in 18 districts that have a high number of cases. All the Covid-19 cases-- both symptomatic as well as asymptomatic -- in Thane, Pune, Satara, Sindhudurg, Ratnagiri, Osmanabad, Beed, Raigad, Hingoli, Akola, Amravati, Kolhapur, Sangli, Gadchiroli, Wardha, Nashik, Ahmednagar, and Latur will have to be shifted to Covid care centres (CCC). State health minister Rajesh Tope, who addressed the media after the meeting with collectors and commissioners of these 18 districts, said monitoring home quarantine patients has become an issue. “There will be no more home isolations in these 18 districts where the positivity rate is higher than the state average. We have seen that proper treatment not been given to patients in home isolation. Hence, the patients will be shifted to CCCs. We are increasing the number of CCCs across the state, especially in smaller villages,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-covid-tally-drops-home-isolation-banned-in-18-districts-101621999332591.html
26-05-2021||India||Cyclone Yaas makes landfall over Odisha, West Bengal coasts||Very severe cyclonic storm, Yaas started making landfall over Odisha-West Bengal coasts at 9am, Wednesday. During landfall, its wind speed was 130 to 140 kmph gusting to 155 kmh, lower than earlier expected.“We are not seeing rapid intensification of this cyclone because its interaction with land has already started. The outer cloud bands of Yaas are over land. The system is close to Paradip also. Comparatively, Yaas had less time over Sea which has prevented intensification to an extremely severe or super cyclone,” Sunitha Devi, in charge, cyclones at IMD, had said on Tuesday.WATCH| Cyclone Yaas makes landfall; heavy rain & gusty winds hit Odisha﻿﻿The major impact of the cyclonic system is expected across the north-eastern coastal districts of India. Odisha is anticipated to bear the maximum brunt of wind and rainfall with some impact on West Bengal, primarily driven by surge and rainfall-induced floods, particularly in the coastal districts. Additionally, very rough to high seas, squally weather and gale winds around the system centre will affect shipping vessels and fishing operations, RMSI, a global disaster risk management company said in its bulletin on Yaas.Click here for Cyclone Yaas LIVE UpdatesWidespread impact is likely to be felt over north Odisha and West Bengal. There is likely to be total destruction of thatched houses; extensive damage to kutcha houses; some damage to pucca houses; potential threat from flying objects; bending or uprooting of power and communication poles; flooding of escape routes; disruption of railways, overhead power lines and signalling systems; widespread damage to standing crops, plantations, orchards, blowing down of mango trees; small boats may get detached from moorings and visibility may be severely affected, IMD has warned.There is a red warning for both Odisha and West Bengal coasts which implies that authorities should be prepared to minimise damage and disaster from the cyclone.After the landfall, the system is very likely to move northwestwards across interior districts of Odisha and weaken gradually. It is likely to maintain the intensity of a cyclonic storm till the early morning of May 27 or late on May 26 and thereafter, it will weaken gradually into a depression over Jharkhand.Tidal waves of height 2-4 metres above astronomical tide are likely to inundate low lying areas of Medinipur, Balasore, Bhadrak and about 2 metres above astronomical tide are likely to inundate low lying areas of South 24 Parganas, Kendrapara and Jagatsinghpur districts around the time of landfall.Sea condition is high to very high (wave height of 9-14 metres/wind speed of 38-63 knots) over westcentral and adjoining eastcentral Bay of Bengal. It is very likely to become very high to phenomenal (up to 14 metres high waves and wind speeds up to 64 knots) over northern parts of central Bay of Bengal, north Bay of Bengal and along and off north Andhra Pradesh-Odisha–West Bengal-Bangladesh coasts during Tuesday evening and Wednesday.Fishermen are advised not to venture into central Bay of Bengal till May 26 forenoon and into north Bay of Bengal and along and off north Andhra Pradesh-Odisha-West Bengal–Bangladesh coasts during May 25 to 26.Gale wind speed reaching 80-90 kmph gusting to 100 kmph would prevail over Puri, Cuttack, Khurda, Jajpur districts of Odisha and Jhargram, west Medinipur, North 24 Pargana districts of West Bengal during the same period. Squally wind speed reaching 60-80 kmph gusting to 90 kmph would prevail over Ganjam, Dhenkanal and Keonjhar districts of Odisha and Bankura, Purulia, Howrah, Hooghly, Nadia and Burdwan districts of West Bengal on Wednesday morning. Squally wind speed reaching 50-60 kmph gusting to 70 kmph will also prevail over Angul, Deogarh, Sundergarh districts of Odisha, Birbhum and Murshidabad districts of West Bengal and Srikakulam, Vijayanagaram and Vishakhapatnam districts of Andhra Pradesh during the same period.Squally wind speed reaching 40-50 kmph gusting 60 kmph is very likely to prevail over south Jharkhand from Wednesday forenoon and increase gradually becoming 90-120 kmph gusting to 130 kmph over southeast Jharkhand and 70-80 kmph gusting to 90 kmph over southwest Jharkhand during Wednesday evening.Also Read | Over 1 million evacuated, states brace for Yaas landfall todayOver north coastal Andhra Pradesh, light to moderate rainfall is likely at many places with heavy to very heavy falls at isolated places on Tuesday. Over Odisha, light to moderate rainfall at many places with heavy to very heavy rainfall with extremely heavy falls (over 20 cm) is likely at isolated places over Jagatsinghpur, Cuttack, Kendrapara, Jajpur, Bhadrak, Balasore, Mayurbhanj, Dhenkanal, Keonjhargarh. Heavy rain is likely over Puri, Khurda, Angul, Deogarh, Sundergarh on May 26 and heavy to very heavy with extremely heavy falls (over 20 cm) is likely at isolated places in north interior Odisha on May 27.Light to moderate rainfall is likely at most places over West Bengal with extremely heavy rainfall at isolated places over Medinipur and heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places over Jhargram, Purulia, Bankura, Bardhaman, Howrah, Hooghly, Kolkata, 24 Parganas, Bhirbhum and heavy falls at isolated places over Nadia, Murshidabad, Darjeeling districts on Wednesday; heavy rain at isolated places over Malda, Darjeeling, Dinajpur, Kalimpong, Jalpaiguri, Bankura, Purulia, Bardhaman, Bhirbhum and Murshidabad on Thursday. Heavy to very heavy rainfall and extremely heavy rain is likely over Jharkhand and Bihar on May 26, 27 and 28.Gale winds speed reaching 100-110 kmph gusting to 120 kmph is prevailing over major parts of central Bay of Bengal and would increase gradually becoming 125-135 gusting to 140 kmph from Tuesday evening. Squally wind speed reaching 50-60 kmph gusting 70 kmph is prevailing over North Bay of Bengal and along and off north Andhra Pradesh-Odisha–West Bengal–Bangladesh coasts.It would further increase becoming gale wind speed 155-165 kmph gusting to 185 kmph over northwest Bay of Bengal and along and off north Odisha and adjoining West Bengal coasts including Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapara, Bhadrak, from Wednesday early morning and will extend to Balasore districts of Odisha from Wednesday forenoon, 100-120 kmph gusting to 145 kmph over Mayurbhanj district of Odisha, east Medinipur and South 24 Parganas districts of West Bengal from Wednesday morning.Meanwhile, monsoon has further advanced into some parts of Maldives-Comorin area; some more parts of southwest and southeast Bay of Bengal on Tuesday. “Development of cyclone Yaas just before monsoon could support monsoon onset over Kerala. Monsoonal flow or winds are strengthened over the Arabian Sea. Monsoon is likely to make onset over Kerala around May 31, 1-2 days here or there,” Sunitha Devi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/very-severe-cyclone-yaas-close-to-north-odisha-west-bengal-coasts-101621997052559.html
26-05-2021||India||Kailash Vijayvargiya says Covid 2nd wave affected only India, explains why||BJP General Secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya has said it is a "matter of discussion" if the second wave of Covids-19 in India was an outbreak or China had a hand in it. A video of Vijayvargiya's speech at a function here went viral on Tuesday."There is a second wave of Covid-19. It was an outbreak, or was it sent? It is a matter of discussion because if any country in the world has challenged China, it is India....Prime Minister Narendra Modi has challenged (China)," the BJP leader is heard saying in the video.Breaking News..#Second wave of Covid-19 is allegedly spread in India by China- Kailash Vijayvargiya@KailashOnline@OfficeOfKNath@digvijaya_28 @jitupatwari @brajeshabpnews @scribe_prashant @MeghaSPrasad @Ahmedshabbir20 @ReporterRavish @ManojSharmaBpl @Anurag_Dwary pic.twitter.com/7l5LJK7tAh"We think this is a viral `war' by China to harass our country because the second wave of Covid-19 was reported only in India and not in neighbouring countries like Bangladesh, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Bhutan and Afghanistan," he said, speaking in Hindi. It could not be ascertained if he said `war' or `vaar' which means `blow/attack' in Hindi. While the BJP leader could not be contacted for comment, some witnesses said he made these statements at an event organised by a trust to distribute oxygen concentrators on Monday. Opposition Congress said he should clarify what he wanted to say. "Does Vijayvargiya want to say that China has waged a biological war against India? He holds a responsible position in the BJP and he should make clear the intent behind his statement," state Congress spokesperson Neelabh Shukla said. The negligence of the BJP-led Union government was responsible for the second wave, he alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vijayvargiya-says-covid-2nd-wave-only-affected-india-explains-why-101621996277891.html
26-05-2021||India||Facebook, Twitter, YouTube to face action? Here's what the firms say||Amid speculations that social media platforms like Facebook and Twitter will be banned in India for their non-compliance to the Centre's new guidelines under the Information Technology Act, which was notified on February 25, the companies on Tuesday responded and said that they were working on implementing the new rules.Why speculations of ban from May 26?The new rules were notified on February 25 and the social media platforms were given three months' time to implement them, which ended on May 25. There has been no extension of this deadline. According to the guidelines, if the companies fail to comply with the rules, they would lose their intermediary status and may face action.What are the new rules?As these social media giants are not headquartered in India, they will have to appoint a chief compliance officer, nodal contact person and resident grievance officer.These platforms will have to remove any content flagged by the authorities within 36 hours.An officer based out in India will oversee a robust complaint redressal mechanism.A monthly compliance report with the details of complaints redressal will have to be published.In case a message being circulated on a particular social media platform undermines the sovereignty of India, the social media platform will have to identify the first originator of the message.Here's what the social media companies sayGoogle: A Google spokesperson has said the company is continuously fighting illegal content in an "effective and fair way". It is also working to comply with local laws through its consistent investment in product changes, resources and personnel. "We realise that our work in keeping our platforms secure is never done and we will continue to refine our existing approaches, and evolve our policies and be as transparent as possible about how we make decisions,” the spokesperson said, as quoted by news agency PTI.Facebook: Facebook which also owns Instagram said it is working towards implementing the rules. It is also discussing some issues with the government. Facebook, however, has brought in the provisions of voluntary verification, grievance redressal and 24-hour timeline to remove flagged content, PTI reported.WhatsApp: WhatsApp on Wednesday filed a legal complaint in Delhi seeking to block the rules as it said the new rules would violate their privacy clauses. It has objected to the new rule which would require a social media platform to disclose the first originator of a message.Twitter has not commented on their official status in complying with the rulesIndia presents a huge market for these social media giants with 53 crore WhatsApp users, 44.8 crore YouTube users, 41 crore Facebook subscribers, 21 crore Instagram users and 1.75 crore on Twitter.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/facebook-twitter-youtube-to-face-action-here-what-the-companies-say-101621993604643.html
26-05-2021||India||Tracking Cyclone Yaas||||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tracking-cyclone-yaas-101621989928760.html
26-05-2021||India||Delhiwale: Well, a ruin in Hauz Khas||They’re known for their restaurants and boutiques, their lake view rooftops and their loud music. But the lanes of Delhi’s HKV, the fashionable Hauz Khas Village, have village-like experiences to offer too. One lane ends into a sprawling yard with a lesser-known landmark. Full of stones and dust, it looks like the remains of a historic site.It’s a well.The so-named Gung Wala Kuan looks as scenically dated as emperor Feroze Shah Tughlaq’s tomb a few lanes away, in another corner of the village. Parts of the well have collapsed. Solitary peepal leaves are growing out from between the stones. A forest of trees stands behind, making this edifice the last civilisational point of the village. The desolation makes one feel far from any city, though this is south Delhi’s heart.This afternoon, a young man is sitting on the stone stairs leading up to the platform.“It’s a centuries-old well but has been dead for many years... I remember the water tasted sweet,” says Mange Ram Gochhwal on phone; his family has been in the village for generations. In his 60s, he summons his childhood memories of the well, when HKV was an archetypical village with farmers working on the surrounding lands that yielded crops like chana (in winter) and jwar and bajra (in summer). For a good part of the day, a pair of bulls would circle this well, drawing water through a leather device called charsa. In the morning, the village men would bathe in the well. The village had no running water then and the women would walk to the well carrying pots on their head. The well was also a laundry-washing site. Mr Gochhwal’s grand-uncle, late Ghanshyam, once built a chubachha, or tank, beside the well, into which water would be stored in great quantity. It was like a swimming pool for the village kids, recalls Mr Gochhwal.Today there’s no sign of that tank. On climbing the short flight of stairs, one fears a single misstep could end in a plunge into the well’s unknown depth. But it’s filled with earth, and the fear recedes.One day the lockdown will lift, the pandemic will recede, the party crowd will reclaim the village, but this ruined well will continue to be permeated in its forever lockdown ambiance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhiwale-well-a-ruin-in-hauz-khas-101621989716729.html
26-05-2021||India||Total lunar eclipse, blood moon and supermoon coming together today||A supercelestial event will take place on Wednesday as the first lunar eclipse of 2021 will take place. This event will be more special as it will coincide with a supermoon, a total lunar eclipse and a red blood moon all at once.Significantly, a supermoon and a total lunar eclipse have not occurred together in nearly six years.People in India can catch live streaming of the lunar eclipse here:What is a total lunar eclipse?During a total lunar eclipse, the Earth comes in between the Sun and the Moon blocking all the direct sunlight that could fall upon the Earth's natural satellite. This blockage of the sunlight casts the Earth's shadow on the surface of the Moon and thus occurs the total lunar eclipse.The total lunar eclipse will not be visible in the national capital as the moon will be below the horizon there for some time, according to the Time and Date report.The lunar eclipse will be visible for a short span of time from the north-eastern parts of India, West Bengal, Odisha and the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, the Ministry of Earth Sciences has informed.A partial lunar eclipse can be seen in Agartala, Kolkata, Cherrapunji, Cooch Behar, Imphal, Itanagar, Guwahati, Malda, Kohima, Lumding, Puri, Silchar and Digha.The partial phase of the lunar eclipse will begin at 3.15pm and end at 6.23pm in India, while the total phase will begin at 4.39pm and end at 4.58pm. The total duration of the eclipse is 5 hours, 2 minutes. The total duration of the partial phases is 2 hours, 53 minutes. The duration of the full eclipse is 14 minutes.The partial eclipse will be visible from Port Blair from 5.38pm for 45 minutes and a partial eclipse can be seen in West Bengal's Malda and Odisha’s Puri at 6.21pm for 2 minutes.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that in India, just after the moonrise, the partial phase of the eclipse will end in the northeastern parts of India (except Sikkim), parts of West Bengal, some parts of Odisha, Andaman and Nicobar Islands.What is a blood moon?During the eclipse, when the Moon is covered by the Earth's shadow it goes dark. However, the Moon doesn't go completely black. Instead, it takes a red colour. Therefore, a total lunar eclipse is often called red or blood moon.What is a Supermoon?The National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) defines that a Supermoon occurs when the Moon’s orbit is closest to the Earth at the same time the Moon is full.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/total-lunar-eclipse-blood-moon-and-supermoon-coming-together-today-101621987500924.html
26-05-2021||India||‘Black day’ protest to mark 6 months of stir||Farmers agitating against the three farm laws pushed through Parliament in September will gather at the three protest sites at Delhi’s borders and urged people to hoist black flags in their support on Wednesday, when their agitation completes six months.The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, a collective of around 30 farmers’ unions, also decided to hold demonstrations, although the Delhi police said no permission has been given for a protest or a rally and appealed to the protesters to maintain law and order, and observe Covid-appropriate behaviour.Experts have warned that any such gathering could turn into a superspreader event, particularly at a time when cases have been receding in the Capital after a devastating few weeks and a hard lockdown.In a statement issued on Tuesday, the SKM said the farmers’ unions across the country will observe a “Black Day”.“Tomorrow, on Buddha Poornima, at the protest sites at Delhi borders as well as in other locations across the country, farmers will celebrate the holy day. This farmer’s movement is running on truth and non-violence, and will be completing 6 months of its historical struggle tomorrow,” the SKM said in the statement.Thousands of farmers have been camping at Delhi’s borders at Singhu, Ghazipur, and Tikri, since November to press the government into repealing the new laws, which they say will erode their bargaining power, weaken a system of assured prices, and leave them vulnerable to exploitation by big agri businesses.Farm leaders have also asked people to don black clothes to show support for the agitation. “Demonstrations should also be held in the chaurahas with sloganeering. Farmers said that by putting black flags on houses, shops, offices, tractors, cars, jeeps, scooters, motorcycles, buses and trucks, citizens should oppose the three agricultural laws, the Electricity Amendment Bill and the Pollution Ordinance,” the SKM statement said.The development has come a week after the farm unions urged the Centre to resume talks, asserting that the discussion would have to be about repealing the new farm laws. So far, the government has held 11 rounds of discussions but none have failed to break the deadlock.The government has said that the laws aim to ease restrictions on farm trade by setting up free markets, allow traders to stockpile large stocks for future sales, and lay down a framework for contract farming.Additional police personnel have been deployed at the bordersto prepare for Wednesday, Delhi police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal said.The continuous rain in the Capital last week, and the deadly second wave of the pandemic since March, have led to a thinning of the numbers at the protest sites. But, the farmers said they will continue the agitation till their demands are met.Gurjant Singh, 36, a farmer from Punjab’s Mohali district, who has been protesting at the Singhu border said, “Though the enthusiasm among the protesters who only joined us occassionally has ebbed a bit, those fighting for their land and livelihood are still here.”SKM’s media coordinator, Harinder Singh, said that the organisers have taken several steps to arrest the spread of the virus at the protest sites. “We even put up the sound system [loudspeakers] closer to the trolleys across protest sites so that farmers would not have to come towards the stage to listen to the speeches. We invited doctors to speak on stage and educate the farmers on precautions, symptoms and Covid-appropriate behaviour,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/black-day-protest-to-mark-6-months-of-stir-101621989237263.html
26-05-2021||India||Most states tick CBSE multiple choice option||Most states on Tuesday told the Union education ministry that the Central Board for Secondary Education’s (CBSE) Class 12 examinations should be conducted, picking a proposed method that involves a shorter duration for the tests, holding them at schools where students are enrolled, and switching to only multiple choice and short-answer questions.A high-level meeting called by the Union ministry of education on Sunday to discuss the feasibility of conducting the exams remained inconclusive, even as officials said there was “broad consensus” that the test must be held for a limited number of subjects and with a shorter duration after the Covid-19 situation comes under control.On Tuesday, only Delhi, Punjab and West Bengal opposed holding the examinations immediately, saying they should be conducted only after all teachers and students are vaccinated -- a difficult plan not just because of the current shortage of vaccines but also because many Class 12 students are under the age of 18 years, a segment for which there are currently no approved vaccines in the country.The decision will apply not just to CBSE but likely to other boards as well, which will follow the model adopted by the country’s largest board.During Sunday’s meeting, two options were presented to the states – first, a three-hour examination for 19 major subjects; second, 90-minute tests, with students having to appear only in one language and three elective subjects. At least a dozen states said on Tuesday that they preferred the second option to conduct the exams. Among them were Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Karnataka, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. Delhi and Punjab also preferred the second option, but said the exams should be conducted only after all teachers and students were vaccinated.There were, however, differences on when the examinations should be held. Some flood- and extreme rainfall-prone states such as Bihar, Assam and Uttarakhand said they wanted the examinations to be held after the monsoon season, which typically ends by September.“If the Centre and state governments work together, it would take 3 to 4 weeks to fully vaccinate teachers and students of Class 12. Following vaccination, the ministry can arrange for examination as per option B,” Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia wrote to the Union education ministry on Tuesday.Punjab school education minister Vijay Inder Singla backed Sisodia’s suggestion and said the state preferred the second option. “All students appearing in Class 12 board exams and teachers, both government and private, should be vaccinated before the board exams are started,” he said.West Bengal said it wanted the examinations to be cancelled. An official of the state education department said on condition of anonymity that the state government wanted an indefinite postponement in view of the pandemic.CBSE has proposed to conduct exams between July and August, tentatively, and results may be announced in September, according to people aware of the developments. Around 1,400,000 students are scheduled to appear in CBSE Class 12 exams this year.On Sunday, Pokhriyal said that an “informed” and “collaborative” decision will be taken on Class 12 exams at the earliest. During the meeting, he also discussed “how important Class 12 exams are to decide the future of students”. He said a decision on the matter will likely be taken by June 1.As per officials in multiple states, there was a view that the shorter duration examinations for fewer subjects should be held in July before the onset of heavy rainfall and floods in the monsoon season.The Uttarakhand government expressed its inability to conduct the examinations after mid-July and in August, when the state receives heavy rainfall. “If exams cannot be held in June end or July first week, then it should be postponed till September as during the peaking monsoon season, examinations in a hill state like ours won’t be suitable,” said Uttarakhand school education secretary R Meenakshi Sundaram.The Bihar government, too, has raised the issue of floods, especially in the northern parts of the state in July-end and August. Bihar education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary asked the Centre to avoid examinations during the monsoon. “The Centre should consider an online option,” he said. The Bihar board examinations were held in February and results were declared in March end, he added.The Jharkhand, Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh and Kerala governments want the CBSE examinations to be held with adequate time given to students to prepare. Kerala education minister V Sivankutty said the government preferred the second option and informed the Centre that apprehension of students regarding their higher studies should be addressed immediately. “We also want the second option,” said Jharkhand education secretary Rajesh Sharma. Tamil Nadu school education minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi told reporters that they preferred the second option as it would reduce the stress on students. Chhattisgarh education minister Prem Sai Singh Tekam wrote a letter to Pokhriyal and said that the Centre should hold CBSE examinations as early as possible.Himachal Pradesh education secretary Rajeev Sharma wrote to the education ministry, saying the second option appeared feasible as it required a shorter window and would reduce the stress on students.Adviser to Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor (L-G), RR Bhatnagar, who also holds the school education portfolio, said Class 12 exams of the J&K state board had already been conducted in Kashmir and two-third of them were completed in the Jammu region.Chandigarh has opted for the shorter option, said director school education Rubinderjit Singh Brar.The Telangana and Andhra Pradesh governments informed the Centre that they also preferred the second option but the final decision depended on the ground situation of the pandemic. Andhra Pradesh is holding Class 10 examinations from June 7, even though Telangana has cancelled all exams and promoted all students enrolled for exams except those in Class 12, whose examination dates would be announced later, said state education minister Adimulapu Suresh.Haryana education minister Kanwar Pal said the state will follow in letter and spirit the Centre’s direction and they, too, preferred the second option. He said if the Centre gave a green signal to hold the exams, the state education department would start the state board examinations from June 20.However, the states that wanted the first option to be implemented were Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan.Madhya Pradesh school education minister Inder Singh Parmar said they wanted the first option as changing the examination system midway could create problems for the students. He added that the CBSE exam schedule should be decided after taking stock of the Covid-19 situation in different states. The minister said MP will take a final decision on conducting Class 12 exams of the MP board in the first week of June. Rajasthan education minister Govind Singh Dotasara said the state supported holding the Class 12 exams. “The GoI [Government of India] has given two options of which we have supported the existing format of holding the exam (3-hour paper). A change in pattern would not be comfortable for the students. The exam date should be decided only after assessing the Covid19 situation.”Several school principals also called for the cancellation of exams. “If the government conducts exams by August-September, we fear that the pandemic might spread once again. Students who are sick with mild symptoms might conceal the fact and appear for the exam due to the fear of missing out on the year. Students can carry home the virus and endanger their family members,” said AK Jha, principal of Government Co-ed Sarvodaya Vidyalaya in Delhi’s Rohini.Ameeta Mulla Wattal, principal of Springdales School, Pusa Road, said: “We need to come up with some alternative criteria since the pandemic continues to prevail. Students went through a lot of anxiety last year and the same is continuing this year as well. We can explore the possibility of delinking boards with college entrances.”During the meeting on Sunday, two options proposed by CBSE for conducting Class 12 exams were discussed at length. In the first option, the examination for major subjects may be conducted at the “designated examination centres and in the existing format” like previous years, and for the minor subjects, “marks can be calculated as per the assessment scheme based on the performance in the major subjects”. The second option involves multiple changes, including conducting exams at schools where the students are enrolled, reducing the duration of examination, and switching to only multiple choice and short answer type questions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/most-states-tick-cbse-multiple-choice-option-101621988854872.html
26-05-2021||India||CISF chief Jaiswal to be new CBI director||The Centre on Tuesday appointed Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) chief Subodh Kumar Jaiswal as the new director of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), filling a key position that has been vacant since February.An order issued by Appointments Committee of Cabinet (ACC) stated that Jaiswal, a 1985-batch Maharashtra cadre Indian Police Force (IPS) officer, will be the CBI director for two years, or until further orders.The post has been lying vacant since the first week of February, when Rishi Kumar Shukla completed his tenure. Additional director Praveen Sinha has been acting as interim chief of the premier investigation agency since then.The decision to appoint Jaiswal was taken a day after a 90-minute meeting by a high-powered panel of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Chief Justice of India NV Ramana and Congress Lok Sabha floor leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury. Jaiswal’s name was shortlisted along with two others officers -- 1985-batch IPS officer Kumar Rajesh Chandra, and 1986-batch officer VSK Kaumudi.During the meeting, Chowdhury opposed the process adopted but later agreed to the three names.Jaiswal earlier served as the Maharashtra director general of police (DGP) before coming to the Centre on deputation last year.During his tenure as Maharashtra director general of Police (DGP), he had differences with the Maha Vikas Aghadi coalition government on various issues, including its transfer policy. He had opposed the transfer of Indian Police Service (IPS) officers before completion of two years of tenure, as per the provisions of the Maharashtra Police Act. He served in the Mumbai Anti-Terrorism Squad, the Maharashtra police special investigation team (SIT) and the state reserve police force. He also oversaw the investigation into the 2018 Bhima-Koregaon violence and the initial charge sheet in the Elgar Parishad case, before the high-profile probes were transferred to the National Investigation Agency.In his previous central deputation, he served with the Special Protection Group (SPG), which secures the Prime Minister, and with the Research and Analysis Wing (R&AW), the country’s external intelligence agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cisf-chief-jaiswal-to-be-new-cbi-director-101621988648318.html
26-05-2021||India||Over 1 million evacuated, states brace for Yaas landfall today||Yaas intensified into a “very severe cyclonic storm” on Tuesday evening and hurtled towards India’s eastern coast as Odisha and West Bengal braced for landfall, and evacuated roughly 1.4 million people from low-lying areas and corralled them into storm shelters.In Bengal, two people were electrocuted and around 80 houses were destroyed in a pre-cyclone storm as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the cyclone was likely to hit close to the Chandbali-Dhamra port in Odisha by noon on Wednesday.“During landfall it will have a wind speed up to 185 kmph. The landfall will be at Chandbali, which is likely to witness the maximum damage. Even after landfall, Yaas will maintain the intensity of a cyclone for about 12 to 18 hours before it degenerates,” said IMD director general Mrutyunjay Mohapatra.Odisha is anticipated to bear the maximum brunt of the second major cyclone to hit the country in nine days with some impact on West Bengal, primarily driven by surge and rainfall-induced floods in the coastal districts.Odisha’s special relief commissioner Pradip Jena said 500,000 people were shifted to cyclone shelters in 15 districts. West Bengal evacuated roughly 900,000 people, said chief minister Mamata Banerjee.Jharkhand, Bihar and Andhra Pradesh prepared for the storm’s impact too.Experts said there was likely to be total destruction of thatched houses; extensive damage to mud houses; potential threat from flying objects; bending/uprooting of power and communication poles and widespread damage to standing crops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-1-million-evacuated-states-brace-for-yaas-landfall-today-101621988428059.html
26-05-2021||India||AAP, BJP spar over textbooks for primary students||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled municipal corporations of Delhi (MCDs) of causing delay in placing orders and distributing books to students enrolled in primary schools. The BJP dismissed the allegation and said the AAP-led Delhi government is causing the delay.“The BJP-ruled MCDs have not yet started the tendering process or begun the procurement of books for seven lakh students in their primary schools this academic year. In 2020, the MCD provided the books to their students after a nine-month delay and in 2019, there was a delay of eight months. The AAP demands that the BJP ruled MCD should immediately, within 15-20 days, start the tendering, procuring and distribution process of books,” Durgesh Pathak, AAP leader in charge of municipal affairs.The three MCDs in Delhi collectively have around 1,660 primary schools, with around 740,000 students enrolled with them, show MCD records.Delhi BJP spokesperson Parveen Shankar Kapoor said, “The allegations are baseless. Pathak should know that MCDs never float a tender for procuring textbooks; they are procured and provided to MCDs by the Delhi government’s Delhi Bureau of Text Books which has not delivered the books till date. The payment for textbooks too comes from the government’s Sarv Shiksha Abhiyan; that came last week after a delay of 46 days.”While the AAP is in charge of the Delhi government, the BJP rules the three MCDs. Delhi goes to municipal polls next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aap-bjp-spar-over-textbooks-for-primary-students-101621987855993.html
26-05-2021||India||No jobs, fear of third wave may keep migrants away||Bajrang Yadav (45), a worker at a gearbox manufacturing factory in west Delhi’s Naraina, along with a few other labourers, boarded a crowded bus from the Anand Vihar interstate bus terminus (ISBT) on April 19 to leave for his village in Uttar Pradesh’s Pratapgarh.Delhi was witnessing an unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases, and a lockdown was to come into effect on April 20. The government’s assurance that the curbs will be lifted soon could not keep Yadav back.Around five weeks since, Delhi is still under a lockdown, and its impact has been that the case trajectory has reducing significantly. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal suggested on Sunday that a phased relaxation was likely to start from May 31.In the interim, life has changed for Yadav. He lost his elder brother to Covid-19. Though his wife and 13-year-old son recovered from the viral infection, they are still on medicines. “I will not be able to return to Delhi anytime soon. I have to be with my family till they recover. I have exhausted all my savings on their treatment. I will try getting some work here for the time being,” said Yadav over the phone on Tuesday.Ravi Kumar, who works in a cardboard factory; Brajkishore Tiwari, who works with a catering contractor; Hiralal Jha, a self-employed plumber; and Ehsaan Ali, a construction worker, are among thousands of migrant workers who left the city in the past one month.More than 800,000 workers left the city in buses from the three ISBTs in the first four weeks of the lockdown, said a government report first published in HT on Saturday. There are many more which the government could not keep count of -- people leaving on trains, and also those leaving after the first four weeks.Now, with the infection spreading to villages, workers are caught in a web of death and despair. Most of them have run out of savings and are unlikely to return to the Capital despite possibility of lockdown being lifted in phases.Amid fears of an impending third wave, several said they were not likely to return to Delhi immediately.“Last year, workers returned as markets opened. In a few weeks, many of them got jobs too. Now things are different. There is no certainty of any job for a long time as the economy has been hit before it could fully recover. In the absence of a safety net, people are scared to return,” said Rajesh Kumar, general secretary, Indian Federation of Trade Unions (Delhi).This could translate into markets, factories, industries, the construction sector, and business enterprises in the city witnessing a labour shortage and operating below capacity for a significant duration in the days to come.“A large number of employers are unlikely to be in a position to hire now,” said Neeraj Sehgal, owner of two factories that produce fire retardants and bulletproof doors.Sehgal, who is also the general secretary of the Mayapuri industrial area welfare association, said: “Factories could touch a maximum of 80% production capacity when cases had significantly declined after the first wave of the pandemic. Though there is no income, factory owners have to pay rent, bills, taxes and salaries. Even if the lockdown is lifted, the production capacity of factories will not touch 50% in three months.”The government, however, tried to reassure the migrant workers, and said adequate arrangements were in place to ensure workers did not face hardships.Delhi’s revenue minister Kailash Gahlot said: “The government has taken a series of steps for welfare of migrant workers during the lockdown, which includes distributing 100% subsidised ration for two months and expanding the safety net of the construction workers’ welfare scheme, under which registered workers are entitled to ₹5,000 a month as a relief measure. We have also announced free ration for those without ration cards.”Experts feared it may take a while before the workforce returns.Debolina Kundu, professor at the National Institute of Urban Affairs, said: “It is unlikely that migrant workers will return to Delhi as soon as the lockdown is lifted. Most workers have exhausted their savings and are not in a position to pay rent or sustain themselves without employment. A revamp of the health sector with assured social security benefits and employment guarantee, in addition to cheap housing and assured food rations, are the measures needed to make most cities functional again.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-jobs-fear-of-third-wave-may-keep-migrants-away-101621987465604.html
26-05-2021||India||BJP plans Covid relief work in 100k villages||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has set a target of covering 100,000 villages for relief work and organising 50,000 blood donation camps across the country to mark the party’s seventh year in power at the Centre on May 30, people aware of the developments said.Instead of public programmes, the focus this year will be on relief measures in the wake of the ongoing second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, they added.The decision was taken at a party meeting of national office bearers on Monday, when BJP president JP Nadda said that workers will have to double their efforts to reach out to people with needs. However, these relief programmes will be conducted without any breach in Covid protocols, a party functionary said.According to two other senior functionaries who were privy to the meeting, Nadda also stressed on ensuring that functionaries as well as the party cadre do not indulge in any form of “political blame game”.“The Opposition has been trying to politicise the pandemic and create an impression that the government did not make the required efforts to provide health care and vaccines for the people. At a time like this, party workers have been told to ensure that they focus only on providing relief,” one of the functionaries cited above said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-plans-covid-relief-work-in-100k-villages-101621987239481.html
26-05-2021||India||From April 1 to May 25, 577 children lost both parents to Covid: Govt||At least 577 children across the country lost both parents to Covid-19 from April 1 to May 25, Union minister for women and child development Smriti Irani said on Tuesday, as appeals for adoption of vulnerable children went viral on social media, prompting the government to warn people against illegal adoptions.“GOI is committed to support and protect every vulnerable child due to loss of both parents to Covid-19. From 1st April 2021 till 2:00 PM today (Tuesday), the State Governments & UTs across the country have reported 577 children whose parents succumbed to Covid-19,” Irani tweeted.According to a WCD ministry official, the orphaned children were being rehabilitated with their extended families or in childcare institutions. “The ministry has been urging everyone to report such children on the childcare helpline (1098) so that action can be taken,” the official said, adding, “the government has galvanized all resources available to it to help track the vulnerable children in order to ensure necessary assistance at every level.”The official pointed out that people were circulating unconfirmed data on children orphaned, leading to confusion.On May 21, HT reported that the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) was working on a centralised digital database to monitor and help children who lost both their parents to Covid-19.The issue has become a point of concern after posts on social media suggested that children orphaned due to Covid-19 amid the raging second wave were up for adoption. It prompted the WCD ministry to write to the Union health ministry to seek directions on children who lost both parents due to the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-april-1-to-may-25-577-children-lost-both-parents-to-covid-govt-101621986619528.html
26-05-2021||India||Toolkit case: Row escalates as leaders get notices, Cong seeks tag on ministers||The tussle over a social media “toolkit” to allegedly defame the government intensified on Tuesday as it emerged that two Congress functionaries were sent notices by the Delhi Police to join the investigation in a complaint they originally filed, even as their party urged Twitter to tag as “manipulated media” posts by 11 Union ministers for “spreading false and malicious propaganda”.The row began last week when Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Sambit Patra shared an image purportedly showing Congress documents on how to criticise the government and the PM in public. The post has now been flagged as “manipulated media” by Twitter. Several fact-checking websites highlighted design and typographical features in the document that, they alleged, suggested it was doctored.On Monday, Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala in a letter to Twitter, flagged posts by Union ministers such as Piyush Goyal, Harsh Vardhan, Ramesh Pokhriyal, Ravi Shankar Prasad, and Smriti Irani for action.“You would appreciate that the forged, fabricated material and the claims made under the malicious #CongressToolkitExposed, by the various ministers above-named, is identical to the material that has already marked as ‘manipulative media’, by Twitter, on various accounts including that of the BJP Spokesperson- Mr. Sambit Patra (@sambitswaraj),” Surjewala said in the letter.“...people tend to believe ‘true’ and take on face value, any information that is put up directly by a Union Minister of the Government of India through his/her official/verified Twitter account,” the letter said, adding that the ministers should be dealt in the same manner as Patra.The BJP has claimed that the documents posted by Patra were part of a “toolkit” made to defame Prime Minister Narendra Modi and build a biased narrative over Covid-19 management, and the Central Vista project.Twitter’s move against Patra has become controversial with the Delhi Police issuing a notice to the company asking it to offer any more evidence it may have on why it labelled the document as manipulated.On Tuesday, it emerged that the police also sent notices to two Congress leaders – Rajeev Gowda, who heads the Congress party’s research department, and Rohan Gupta, the party’s social media head.A police officer familiar with the case details, said: “The two Congress leaders mailed a complaint through a city lawyer. We asked them to meet the investigating officer for a routine examination. Before proceeding, we need to verify if the complaint was indeed sent by them. The IO could then ask other questions related to the allegations.”The two Congress leaders filed a complaint with the Delhi Police on May 18, seeking a first information report (FIR) against some senior BJP leaders for allegedly propagating a “fake toolkit” on Twitter under the hashtag CongressToolkitExposed.Police officials said they were sent notices on May 21, the same day Twitter’s (India) managing director Manish Maheshwari too was sent a similar notice. None of the three joined the inquiry that is being done by the special cell, a unit of the force that normally probes terror cases.A second police officer associated with the case, while asking not to be named, said no fresh notices have been sent to the two Congress leaders. “These notices were served last week based on a complaint received from them (Congress leaders) by the deputy commissioner of the police (DCP) special cell. They were asked to join the probe so that they could help us in carrying the investigation forward. They could shed light on the allegations that the toolkit circulated was a fake one. Since they were acquainted with the case and possessed information related to it, they were asked to join the probe, which they have not,” the officer said.“In our reply we have stated our party had also filed a complaint with the Chhattisgarh Police. The Chhattisgarh Police addressed our complaint, and they registered an FIR. Since the case in Chhattisgarh is already proceeding, we want to continue with their (Chhattisgarh Police) investigation,” said Godwa, who is a party spokesperson.When contacted over phone, Gupta gave a similar response and added: “In our reply we also asked the Delhi Police to transfer the details available with them regarding the case to the Chhattisgarh Police. We have told them that we are joining the Chhattisgarh Police’s investigation as co-complainant.”The Delhi Police officially did not comment on the matter.The joint complaint by Gowda and Gupta was filed with Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava and the Tughlak Road police station on May 18. It was later transferred to the special cell for further inquiry. Police said they are conducting a preliminary inquiryOn Monday evening, police visited Twitter’s offices in South Delhi’s Lado Sarai and Gurugram’s Golf Course Road to secure the participation of Twitter’s Maheshwari in the probe. Police officials familiar with the investigation, have said that Maheswari has refused to join investigation citing that he is not the concerned person.“He said he is from Twitter India and the tweet was flagged as Manipulated Media by Twitter Inc. He also said he is in-charge of sales in India. We are in touch with Twitter officials and they will have to join the probe. They must have some information on the basis of which they flagged the tweet as manipulated,” an officer, who wished not to be named, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/toolkit-case-row-escalates-as-leaders-get-notices-cong-seeks-tag-on-ministers-101621983780711.html
26-05-2021||India||Names of 2 contenders dropped from CBI chief race after CJI statement||The high-powered committee led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, which met on Monday evening to decide the name of new Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) director, dropped the names of two fancied contenders , Rakesh Asthana and Y C Modi, both 1984 batch IPS officers , from the list after Chief Justice of India (CJI) N V Ramana mentioned a 2019 Supreme Court ruling on such appointments, people familiar with the development said.As soon as the meeting began on Monday at 7 Lok Kalyan Marg, with a Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) officer present there to assist Modi, Ramana, and Congress Lok Sabha floor leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, the last mentioned pointed out that the seniority, integrity and experience in investigating anti-corruption cases should be the criteria to select the suitable officer, said a person familiar with the happenings who asked not to be named.A list of 109 IPS officers from 1984 to 1987 batches was shared by the DoPT with the panel members in mid-May but this was pruned to 16 names before the meeting on Monday, something to which Chowdhury objected.The chief justice, according to another person familiar with the happenings who requested anonymity, said that the rule of law was most important and cited a March 2019 apex court ruling by then CJI Ranjan Gogoi in the Prakash Singh case, which makes it clear that no officer with less than six months left in retirement should be appointed as a police chief.Chowdhury agreed with the CJI, and the PM too said rule of law must be followed in the appointment, said the second person.This immediately ruled out Y C Modi, currently director general of National Investigation Agency (NIA), Rakesh Asthana, currently director general of Border Security Force (BSF), and another 1984 batch IPS officer , S S Deswal, currently DG Indo Tibet Border Police (ITBP) as they are set to retire in May, July and August respectively.Both Asthana and Modi are believed to be close to the government and have substantial experience of working in CBI. They were considered top contenders for the coveted post, in terms of both experience and seniorityThe panel then decided that CBI director will be selected from three officers – Subodh Jaiswal, 1985 batch Maharashtra cadre officer, currently director general Central Industrial Security Force (CISF); Kumar Rajesh Chandra, 1985 batch officer from Bihar cadre, currently DG Sashastra Seema Bal; and 1986 batch officer V S K Kaumudi, special secretary (internal security) in ministry of home affairs and DG Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPRD). “The panel had no objection on these names, except that Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury gave a dissent note on the way the list was pruned by DOPT from 109 to 16 officers without consulting the panel”, said the first person.“It was a cordial meeting, and everybody agreed on the names,” said a third person familiar with the matter who asked not to be named.“It is for the first time that CBI Director’s selection will happen from only those officers having at least six months left for their retirement. This might become a precedent in future selection as well, particularly in CBI, Intelligence Bureau and Research and Analysis Wing (RAW), which have a fixed tenure of two years,” added the third person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/names-of-2-contenders-dropped-from-cbi-chief-race-after-cji-statement-101621983548811.html
26-05-2021||India||Full moon could inflict increased damage: IMD||When cyclone Yaas makes landfall on Wednesday, it would coincide with the full moon perigean spring tide and inflict maximum damage, India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials have warned.“The damage would be the maximum in the coastal districts of East Midnapore and South 24 Parganas,” said Sanjib Banerjee, deputy director, IMD Kolkata.Experts said that the water level in the sea rises at least a metre high during a spring tide, which occurs during full moon, over a normal high tide that comes every day. The level is the highest during a perigean spring tide when the moon is the closest to earth.“The storm surge triggered by the cyclone at East Midnapore district would be 2-4 metres, while in South 24 Parganas it would be 1-2 metres. This is over and above the astronomical tide (spring tide),” said Banerjee.For the storm surge, IMD has issued a ‘red’ warning — the highest level of warning — for East Midnapore district, and an ‘orange’ warning (where officials are asked to remain prepared) for South 24 Parganas district.Yaas has already intensified into a ‘severe cyclone’ and is expected to gather more steam and become a ‘very severe cyclone’ by Tuesday late night before hitting the Odisha-West Bengal coasts somewhere around Balasore on Wednesday noon.“The water level is already high because of the spring tide and that’s more worrying. Sea and river water have gushed into some places along the coast and in the Sunderbans delta. Around nine lakh people have already been evacuated,” said West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee.The chief minister said that she along with top bureaucrats and some cabinet ministers would stay back at night in the control room set up at the secretariat to monitor the storm and the related disaster management work. Around three lakh government employees, from senior bureaucrats to home guards and civic volunteers, have been deployed for disaster management work and carry out relief work after the cyclone. The army has been kept on standby too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/full-moon-could-inflict-increased-damage-imd-101621983280487.html
26-05-2021||India||Manhunt in Antigua as Mehul Choksi goes missing||Police in Antigua have launched a search for fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi, who went missing in the tiny Caribbean island on Sunday evening after heading to a popular local restaurant for dinner, according to his lawyer and a missing persons notice issued by the country’s Royal Police Force.Indian agencies have also alerted Interpol for more information about his whereabouts, people familiar with the developments said.Reports in the Antiguan media on Monday suggested that Choksi may have fled to Cuba fearing his extradition to India, but his lawyer Vijay Aggarwal denied the contention, and Indian agencies said they had no such information.Prime Minister Gaston Browne, in a video posted by antiguanewsroom.com, said in the Antiguan parliament on Tuesday that there is no “reliable information to date to confirm that he has fled the country. It is likely that he may still be here and law enforcement is utilizing all efforts, including all intelligence to locate him.”He added that in case it is true that Choksi has indeed fled the country, “we could get judgement in absentia and we will revoke his citizenship in due course.” Other than the extradition proceedings, Choksi is also fighting another case on the revocation of his citzenship in the island nation.Browne said that “if indeed, Mr Choksi has fled the country as speculated, it would have been by boat, because no aircraft with any flight plan (to Cuba) and any passenger by the name of Mehul Choksi would have been found by the authority,” adding that “no plane would have landed in this country illegally.”“Mehul Choksi is missing. His family members are worried and anxious and had called me to discuss. Antigua police are investigating. Family is in the dark and worried about his safety,” his lawyer Aggarwal saidChoksi, who has sought refuge in Antigua after allegedly cheating Punjab National Bank of ₹13,578 crore along with his nephew Nirav Modi, and fleeing India in 2018, left his home on Monday “to go for dinner at a well-known restaurant in the southern part of the island and was never seen again”, according to a report in the antiguanewsroom.com. Modi is facing extradition proceedings in the UK.The diamond merchant’s vehicle was found at Jolly Harbour, a popular nightlife hub on the 280 square km island with a population of less than 100,000 that is famous for its cricketing antecedents -- it is the home of talismanic West Indies batsman Sir Vivian Richards and iconic fast bowler Andy Roberts. Antigua famously has 365 beaches, “one for every day of the year”, according to its tourism tagline.Police in Antigua have sought public assistance for information on Choksi, who, according to a police statement, was last seen at about 5:15pm (local time) before leaving home in a car, which has since been recovered.After an official complaint was lodged at the Johnson Point Police Station, the police launched a manhunt. “Based on additional information received, the police have conducted numerous searches but to no avail,” the local police said in the statement on Monday.Giving information on his physical attributes for identification purpose, the police statement asked people to inform the Johnson Point Police Station or the Criminal Investigations Department (CID) if they had any information on his whereabouts. “Mehul is described as being of Indian descent, brown in complexion, five feet six inches (5’ 6”) in height, heavily built with a balding hairline. The police are seeking the assistance of the public in knowing the whereabouts of Mr Choksi,” the police statement said.A report in a Caribbean news website Associates Times, quoting a person named Govin, a purported close aide of Choksi, claimed that Choksi had “left the country a few days ago. and is currently living in a safe house in based in Cuba”. The claim, however, appeared at odds with the police’s version of events, and of his last sighting.Indian officials that HT spoke to, both in Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate (ED) said they are in touch with concerned Antiguan officials through the ministry of external affairs (MEA), and were confident that Choksi would be traced soon.India has been pursuing Choksi’s extradition in Antigua since 2018, and an Interpol red notice is pending against him.In a charge sheet filed last year, ED alleged that Choksi did not just defraud Indian banks, but customers and lenders in Dubai and the US as well. His assets worth ₹2,500 crore have already been attached.As reported by HT in March, Antigua & Barbuda has initiated the process to cancel the Choksi’s citizenship granted under the Caribbean nation’s Citizenship by Investment Programme (CIP) in November 2017. He has challenged the move in a court in the Caribbean nation.India has an extradition arrangement with Antigua and Barbuda. As per the provisions of the Extradition Act, 1993 of Antigua and Barbuda, a fugitive may be extradited to a designated Commonwealth country or a state with which there are general or special arrangements or a bilateral treaty.Choksi’s extradition is pending since 2018 in court there, which he has challenged.People familiar with his citizenship said that Choksi has approached the high court there against Antigua’s process to revoke his citizenship, but the whole legal battle may take some time.His nephew Nirav Modi is currently lodged in a UK jail. The Westminster’s court in London, in February this year, ordered his extradition, which he has challenged in the UK high court.Sherbir Panag, Partner at Panag and Babu and an international legal expert on white collar crimes, said – “Assuming that Mehul Choksi has left the country after he felt that India’s diplomatic efforts to bring him back here are working, he will try to place himself in a jurisdiction which doesn’t have extradition arrangement/treaty with India”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manhunt-in-antigua-as-mehul-choksi-goes-missing-101621982591358.html
26-05-2021||India||Supreme Court rejects fear of death due to covid-19 as ground for bail||The Supreme Court on Tuesday stayed two controversial high court orders that granted protection from arrest to accused citing the apprehension of death during the Covid-19 pandemic. The bench held that courts, while considering bail applications, shall only consider merits of the case without being influenced by such contentions.One of the orders was passed by the Allahabad high court on May 10. It observed: “The apprehension of an accused being infected with novel coronavirus before and after his arrest, and the possibility of his spreading the same while coming into contact with the police, court and jail personnel or vice-versa can be considered to be a valid ground for grant of anticipatory bail to an accused.” Citing this reason, the high court granted protection from arrest to an alleged conman till January 3, 2022, considering the possibility of a third wave of infections by this September.The vacation bench of the top court, comprising justices Vineet Saran and BR Gavai, stayed the observations passed by the Allahabad high court and asked all courts to decide anticipatory bail pleas by considering only the facts of the case. The bench did not stay the bail granted to the accused, Prateek Jain, directing that if he fails to turn up on the date fixed for his appearance before the police, the bail shall stand cancelled, and the high court order stayed.The other order stayed by the SC came from Rajasthan. On May 17, the Rajasthan high court directed the police not to arrest any accused charged with an offence in which maximum punishment was up to three years in jail. The HC reasoned that a person who is arrested and sent to jail could be an asymptomatic carrier of Covid-19, and could infect other inmates. The state police chief was directed to pass necessary orders to ensure no arrests are made in cases where “punishment is up to three years and the case is to be tried by a First Class Magistrate”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-rejects-fear-of-death-due-to-covid-19-as-ground-for-bail-101621982285204.html
26-05-2021||India||Lakshadweep BJP chief joins protests against new regulations||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s Lakshadweep unit president Mohammad Kasim on Tuesday joined the chorus of protests against the island’s administrator Praful Khoda Patel’s controversial new regulations a day after Communist Party of India (Marxist) and Congress members of parliament aired their reservations about these. Kasim said people should be taken into confidence before announcing sweeping changes.“It seems some of the grievances of the island people are genuine. It is always good to seek the opinion of people and their elected representatives before taking decisions. I have written to both PM Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah, about this.”The issue has snowballed into a major political controversy with all parties closing their ranks . Strangely, the second in command in the BJP’s island unit said the charges were a mere “misinformation campaign” and said he was not aware of Kasim’s latest position.In Delhi, the Congress demanded the recall of Patel and the withdrawal of all unilateral and “anti-people” orders issued and promulgated under his tenure. It accused Patel of attempting to “destroy the cultural heritage” of Lakshadweep.Administrator Patel’s recent reforms have attracted widespread resentment among the local populace with many believing the changes are aimed at “destroying the unique culture and tradition” of the islands. About a dozen MPs including Mohammed Faizal, who represents the Island, sent letters to the President seeking his immediate recall.Patel, the administrator of the Union Territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, was given additional charge of Lakshadweep in last December following the demise of administrator Dineshwar Sharma.The MPs alleged that the administrator unilaterally decided to introduce norms on mandatory acquisition of private property for development, passed anti-goonda rules that gave police powers to detain anyone, removed beef from the mid-day meals served in schools, cut trees for road expansion projects and introduced the two-child norm for candidates contesting local body elections. None of these changes were discussed with the people. The Congress, CPI(M) and Muslim League joined hands to oppose the decisions, saying Patel was trying to “saffronise the island” where almost 95% population is Muslim.Congress General Secretary Ajay Maken claimed in a press conference in Delhi that the rationale behind Patel’s appointment was two-fold: one, to fulfil BJP’s ideological objective in the Islands and two, to ensure the presence of a BJP representative in Lakshadweep.But the BJP strongly defended Patel, who was the home minister when Narendra Modi was Chief Minister of Gujarat. Party vice-president in charge of the island A P Abdullah Kutty said he is not aware of Kasim’s latest position. “These moves are aimed at the overall development of the island. Usually administrators become pawns in the hands of local leaders. But this time it is not happening so all have ganged up against him,” he said, adding that the ongoing “save Lakshadweep campaign” was politically motivated.BJP’s Kerala state unit president K Surendran has also criticized the move. “These MPs are spreading canards. Beef was not banned in the island at all. Some of the uninhabited islands are becoming a haven for anti-national forces. Development of the island is the need of the hour”.But more MPs have joined the protest seeking the recall of the administrator. “The Congress will send a team to the island to study the situation soon,” said AICC general secretary K C Venugopal adding the “BJP is trying to make a peaceful island another Kashmir.” On Monday, Venogopal also wrote a letter to President Ram Nath Kovind seeking the recall of PatelMohammed Faizal, who is a two-term MP from the island, said the new rules are an insult to local people. He added that according to the National Crime Records Bureau, the island has “lowest crime rate in the country and its small jails are almost empty”. He said some of Patel’s decisions went against the recommendations of Justice Raveendran Commission appointed by the Supreme Court in 2012 to look into allegations of some private resorts being allowed in violation of coastal zone regulations.“His moves to widen roads, and develop inner areas are against the integrated island management plan mooted by the commission. You can’t develop it (Lakshadweep) as a major tourism hub by hurting sentiments of local people. All elected representatives are kept in the dark,” he said.Many film personalities and artists have also joined the # ave Lakshadweep campaign. Meanwhile Lakshadweep police have arrested four people including two students for allegedly sending threatening message to the administrator.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakshadweep-bjp-chief-joins-protests-against-new-regulations-101621981747037.html
26-05-2021||India||Yaas intensifies, batters east coast ahead of landfall today||Yaas intensified into a “very severe cyclonic storm” on Tuesday evening and hurtled towards India’s eastern coast as Odisha and West Bengal braced for landfall, and evacuated roughly 1.1 million people from low-lying areas and corralled them into storm shelters.In Bengal, two people were electrocuted and around 80 houses were destroyed in a pre-cyclone storm as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the cyclone was likely to hit close to the Chandbali-Dhamra port in Odisha by noon on Wednesday.“During landfall it will have a wind speed of 155 kmph-165 kmph, gusting to 185 kmph. The impact will be severe for six hours before and after the landfall at Chandbali. Big trees and electric poles may get uprooted. Chandbali is likely to witness the maximum damage due to the cyclone,” said IMD directort general Mrutyunjay Mohapatra.He said authorities prioritised four districts in Odisha — Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapara, Bhadrak and Balasore -- as likely bear the worst impact of Yaas.”Even after landfall, Yaas will maintain the intensity of a cyclone for about 12 to 18 hours before it degenerates,” said Mohapatra.Odisha is anticipated to bear the maximum brunt of the second major cyclone to hit the country in nine days -- Cyclone Tauktae battered India’s western coast last week-- with some impact on West Bengal, primarily driven by surge and rainfall-induced floods in the coastal districts.“Every life is precious, thus all possible steps should be taken to protect life,” Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik said. Very rough seas, stormy weather and gale winds are likely to affect shipping vessels and fishing operations.Odisha’s special relief commissioner Pradip Jena said 210,621 people were shifted to cyclone shelters in 15 districts. “6,900 cyclone centres are ready for use where 7.50 lakh people can be accommodated,” he added.Jena said 710 diesel generators, 813 tankers and 10,000 government employees were dispatched to the coastal districts. Another 2,000 workers are expected to reach their locations by Tuesday night. At least 4,000 rescue personnel have been deployed.In Bengal, a freak storm in Hooghly and North 24 Parganas districts left two people electrocuted and damaged 80 houses, said West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee .“This was unexpected... The tornado wreaked havoc in Chinsurah, partly damaging 40 houses. Two persons were also electrocuted to death,” she told reporters. In North 24 Parganas district’s Halisahar, the storm lasted a little over a minute, impacting 40 houses and injuring five people, the CM said. The state evacuated roughly 900,000 people.A major contingency plan was put in place to mitigate the impact of the cyclone on oil and gas installations. Odisha coast has two major ports at Dhamra and Paradip and an oil refinery at Paradip. West Bengal hosts a major port at Haldia.The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) force earmarked its highest-ever number of teams, 113, for relief and rescue operations. Fifty-two teams were designated for Odisha, 45 for West Bengal, and the rest for Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Jharkhand and Andaman and Nicobar Islands, an NDRF spokesperson said.Each NDRF team has 47 personnel equipped with tree and pole cutters, communication gadgets, inflatable boats and basic medical aid. “All this has happened because as an extra measure of precaution and preparation as the central and state governments, on the basis of lessons learnt from earlier cyclones including the recent Tauktae, are very focussed on minimising damage to life and property and targeting zero casualty,” NDRF director general SN Pradhan said.Jharkhand, Bihar and Andhra Pradesh prepared for the storm’s impact.Jharkhand sounded high alert and evacuated people from East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum and other districts bordering West Bengal and Odisha. Chief minister Hemant Soren reviewed preparedness and asked officials to deal with the situation on war- footing.“The cyclone is likely to severely impact Kolhan division that comprises East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum and Saraikela-Kharsawan. Bokaro and Khunti are also likely to be severely impacted...All those in thatched houses and huts in bordering areas with West Bengal and Odisha are being shifted to shelter homes,” secretary, disaster management department, Amitabh Kaushal said.Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar held a review meeting and instructed officials to make all arrangements in advance. He directed officials to make alternative arrangements in hospitals, government as well as private, in the event of a power outage.Andhra Pradesh chief secretary Adityanath Das visited Srikakulam district to review arrangements.Independent experts warned that both the Arabian Sea and Bay of Bengal are exceptionally warm this year, making them favourable for development of powerful cyclones.“Waves up to 11.5m detected by National Institute of Ocean Technology morning in north Bay of Bengal, about 400km away from the coast, as cyclone Yaas moves in. INCOIS-IMD joint forecast indicates waves of 3-7 m along the Odisha-West Bengal coasts in 24 hours,” tweeted Roxy Mathew Koll, a climate scientist at Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, warning of a massive storm surge.Experts said there was likely to be total destruction of thatched houses; extensive damage to mud houses; some damage to pucca houses; potential threat from flying objects; bending/ uprooting of power and communication poles; flooding of escape routes; disruption of railways, overhead power lines and signalling systems; widespread damage to standing crops, plantations, orchards, blowing down of mango trees; small boats may get detached from moorings and visibility may be severely affected.Tidal waves of height 2-4 metres above astronomical tide are likely to inundate low lying low laying areas of Medinipur, Balasore, Bhadrak and about two meters above astronomical tide are likely to inundate low lying low laying areas of South 24 Parganas, Kendrapara and Jagatsinghpur districts around the time of landfall.Winds at 80-90 kmph gusting to 100 kmph are expected over Puri, Cuttack, Khurda, Jajpur districts of Odisha and Jhargram, west Medinipur, North 24 Pargana districts of West Bengal.(with inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yaas-intensifies-batters-east-coast-ahead-of-landfall-today-101621981387884.html
26-05-2021||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||There’s a myna inside my room in the office as I write this. It’s hot outside, but I will shortly shoo it away. It came in through a window installed a few days ago. To be exact, there was always a window. Only, it was one of those sheet glass ones affixed to the frame, and which could not be opened. Now, I have a tall sliding window that I always leave open. As regular readers of this column know, I contracted Covid in April. I suspect that despite all the precautions I took, the air in my room did me in (I could be wrong, but I have pretty much ruled out all other options). Hence the window. And hence the myna (which has been shooed away). There has been a lot of emphasis on variants and the role of superspreading events in the emergence of the second wave of the coronavirus disease pandemic in India. What hasn’t got much attention is ventilation, as I was reminded by my old friend and adman (no, he isn’t like Don Draper at all) Shashi Sinha. Not long after we spoke, the office of India’s Principal Scientific Adviser released an advisory titled “Stop the Transmission, Crush the Pandemic”, which featured an entire section on ventilation – at home, and at work. As India considers opening up as the second wave abates (Delhi, for instance, has seen a sharp fall in positivity rates to the low single digits, and could start opening up as early as next week), it would do well to focus on what may well have been a silent contributor to the surge in cases – ventilation.It’s important, when speaking of ventilation, to mention Linsey Marr, the aerosol and infectious diseases specialist at Virgina Tech, and among the first to claim that the Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes the coronavirus disease was transmissible by air. That was as early as April 2020, but no one listened to her and other scientists who were merely pointing out that virus-laden aerosol particles would pretty much behave like other aerosol particles of the same size – which means they can travel (farther than the six feet, for instance, that was initially considered the safe distance in the case of Covid-19), stay suspended for extended lengths of time, and, most importantly, be breathed in. It isn’t clear why WHO and national health bodies chose not to listen to scientists such as Marr. Or Richard Corsi, from Maseeh College at Portland University, and an expert in indoor air quality. Again, as long ago as April 2020, Corsi was speaking about how to make indoor spaces safe – using existing technologies. No one listened.It isn’t difficult to see how poor ventilation could have contributed to India’s second wave. By early February, cases in India had fallen to below 10,000 a day, and with the vaccine drive launched in January, most people believed India had won the war against the virus (it still might have, had it got its vaccine strategy right, but enough has been said on that). Consequently, everything opened up: restaurants (for indoor dining); bars; malls; offices (even multiplexes were functioning in most states; that’s right, closed, air-conditioned spaces, where they show movies). The use of public transport (closed buses, metros) increased. Virtual office meetings gave way to real ones – conference rooms filled up with many of the attendees wearing their masks on their chins or around their necks. Indoor airborne transmission of the virus may have well be responsible for most cases seen in February and March (and, along with so-called variants of concern and superspreader events, contributed to the second wave).As India opens up after the second wave, and looks forward to at least six months of non-pharmaceutical interventions and restrictions (most of the population is still unvaccinated), all of us would do well to pay attention to the work of scientists such as Marr and Corsi (or others, for there are many) to understand how to make indoor spaces safe. The primary focus should not be retail stores or restaurants or even offices. It should be schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-what-you-need-to-know-today-101621980454158.html
26-05-2021||India||Telangana resumes vaccination after 10 days||Hyderabad: The Covid-19 vaccination process in all Telangana government hospitals, which was kept in abeyance for the last 10 days due to shortage of stocks, resumed on Tuesday following instructions from chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao. While medical and health department authorities have not disclosed how much stock of vaccine was available with the state, they said the vaccination programme of the state government was confined to only those who had taken the first dose.The department, however, announced that designated private hospitals or Private Covid Vaccination Centres (PCVCs) in the state could start administering the jabs to individuals above 18 years from Tuesday.The government also permitted private hospitals to conduct vaccination drives at workplaces (on request made by institutions/companies/gated companies etc) by registering on the CoWIN portal and following Covid vaccination guidelines. At a review meeting held on Monday night, the chief minister also instructed state finance minister T Harish Rao and health officials to identify super-spreaders like RTC (Road Transportation Corporation) staff, cab drivers and delivery boys and work out modalities to conduct a special vaccination drive for them. The guidelines could be prepared accordingly, he said. KCR, as the chief minister is known, also asked health department authorities to study the Delhi and Maharashtra models which were successful in containing the spread of Covid-19 in the second wave. “We have to learn from the good experiences of other states. Reports suggest that the Delhi government is successfully curtailing the spread of Covid-19. Maharashtra also achieved good results in this regard. Find out what are the measures and action plan that they have taken,” the chief minister told officials. KCR suggested that a medical team from Telangana visit Delhi to examine the model adopted there to contain the virus and study the situation. “So far, we are getting good results in reducing the percentage of positive cases in Telangana. But we have to work to reduce its percentage further,” he said. The chief minister instructed that officials implement a two-pronged strategy of continuing the fever survey and distributing medical kits, while stepping up the number of tests for Covid-19. All those coming to the Primary Health Centres for Covid testing should be tested without fail, he said.KCR also asked officials to take steps to increase the bed strength in government hospitals to treat black fungus cases. The department officials told him that at present, 150 beds were allotted for black fungus patients in Gandhi Hospital and 250 beds in ENT Hospital, Hyderabad. Another 200 beds would be earmarked in Sarojini Devi Eye Hospital. The chief minister directed that the bed strength be increased to at least 1,500 — 1,100 in Hyderabad and 400 in districts. Besides, all the medicines used in the treatment of black fungus should be made available and orders be placed to that effect, he said. Approximately 400 cases of black fungus have been reported in Telangana so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-resumes-vaccination-after-10-days-101621969812319.html
26-05-2021||India||Tiruppur garment units in TN stay shut amid Covid surge||Chennai: Garment manufacturing factories in Tiruppur district, which are involved in exports to various global markets, stopped all operations after they turned into Covid-19 hotspots with scores of employees testing positive for the infection.The industry was exempted from the 15-day statewide lockdown, which came into force on May 10, and was allowed to function as a continuous process industry keeping in mind its export commitments. However, with over 100 workers getting infected between late April and May 14, the garment sector voluntarily decided to shut operations and authorities also simultaneously closed down six units in a period of three days.As Tamil Nadu extended the lockdown by another week on May 24 and intensified restrictions, it directed garment units to remain shut during this period. On May 20, Tiruppur health authorities held a meeting with garment factory owners and related associations and urged them to suspend operations during the week. “They cooperated and garment factories will continue to be closed this week,” a senior health official of Tiruppur said, preferring anonymity. “The garment units had become a cluster so we had to demarcate the specific localities as containment zones,” the official added. Even though garment manufacturers voluntarily decided to stop operations due to the rising cases, they raised concerns over the heavy losses the businesses suffered. “It is endangering the industry. In a month, we export to the tune of ₹2,500 crore and our loss during this shutdown will be tantamount to that,” M Raja Shanmugam, president, Tiruppur Exporters Association (TEA), said. “Our sampling process has to happen round-the-clock to satisfy the market which is design-driven. Without samples, we cannot get orders. We are going to be shut for a total of two weeks after which it will take time for operations to pick up. During the first wave, the entire world was affected but in the second wave, we are isolated while western markets have resumed normalcy, having inoculated their population. Due to the vaccine shortage, we haven’t been able to vaccinate our workers,” he added. Shanmugam also refuted authorities’ claims that Covid-19 guidelines were not enforced for workers inside garment units. “We have been following standard operating procedures (SOPs) since May 6 last year and there was no outbreak,” Shanmugam said, adding: “Social events before the lockdown are what caused the spread.” Tiruppur is home to about 15,000 garment units which are a mix of small and micro units without around 600,000 workers. “Most of them are migrant workers and they have left home fearing the lockdown,” Viyakula Mary, executive director of Tirupur-based SAVE (Social Awareness and Voluntary Education), which works for promotion of fair labour standards, said. In April, two days before their quarantine period after testing positive for Covid-19 ended, 16 migrant workers who were employed with a cotton mill left from Tiruppur to return to their native in Jharkhand. “When testing capacity is low and the turn-around time for results is late even for those infected, the government could have put up camps in the localities of garment units and regularly checked workers for symptoms,” Mary said. “There is no possibility for their isolation as at least five workers would live in a 10x10 room,” she added. District health authorities said that they are increasing testing and changing the treatment protocol. “The garment units were a hotspot and now since that is closed, our concern is to increase the number of samples tested, and we are starting basic medication for anyone who has any symptoms such as fever so that they don’t have to wait until they get tested or wait for results or a bed,” the health officials quoted above said. As cases dip in Chennai which has the highest caseload in Tamil Nadu, state health authorities worry about the surge in smaller districts and cities, including Tiruppur, Coimbatore, Erode, Trichy and Madurai. On Tuesday, Tiruppur reported 1,854 new cases and 25 deaths taking the total to 50,554 positive cases and 364 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tiruppur-garment-units-in-tn-stay-shut-amid-covid-surge-101621969751548.html
26-05-2021||India||Karnataka receives two interests on global tenders for Covid vaccine||Bengaluru: Karnataka has received two interests on its global tenders on Covid-19 vaccines, which could ease up the current shortage, according to senior government officials. KV Trilok Chandra, the health and family welfare commissioner, on Tuesday told HT that the two tender interests include Russia-developed Sputnik-V and Sputnik-Light. On whether the quantity has been specified, Chandra said, “Not yet, that we will be further processing it.” He said the tender processing will be completed in the “next couple of days”. The state government had floated global tenders for vaccines as a measure to mitigate the growing demand for inoculation and to insulate the state from another bout of Covid-19 in the imminent third wave, expected by around the end of the year. Dr CN Ashwath Narayan, deputy chief minister and head of Karnataka’s taskforce on Covid-19, in an interview to HT, said the state needed 65 million vaccine doses, adding that the government has so far placed orders for 30 million. He said the global tenders were floated after Pune-based Serum Institute of India and Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech were taking longer than expected to deliver the orders placed by Karnataka. The state has placed orders for 20 million doses of Covishield and 10 million doses of Covaxin. The state has also floated global tenders for Remdesivir, a drug used to treat critically ill Covid-19 patients. “By at least August, we should have completed at least a single dose for 25-30 million people. We can reach over 20 million by August and by December we can give everyone at least a single dose,” Narayan said. Karnataka has so far administered 12,310,317 vaccine doses, of which only 2,636,589 persons have received both doses, a coverage of just around 4%, according to government data. Only 64,156 doses were administered in Karnataka till 3.30 pm on Tuesday, according to the daily bulletin of the state health department. In Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) area, 2,395,207 doses have been administered, of which 559,008 persons have received both doses, according to data. Only 1,249 persons received the second dose in Bengaluru, data shows. “On a continuing basis, we are receiving vaccines from the Government of India. And whatever we are purchasing, we are getting those as well,” Chandra said. He added that for the 18-44 age group, slots will be opened up based on comfort levels. The vaccination in other districts, which have witnessed a surge in the past few days, has also been lower. “Yesterday, we had indicated to the districts that the targeted population, with whatever stock they have they should complete it. So by tomorrow (Wednesday) there should be an uptick in those (daily vaccination numbers),” Chandra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-receives-two-interests-on-global-tenders-for-covid-vaccine-101621969691559.html
26-05-2021||India||Fire breaks out at Vizag’s HPCL unit, no casualties||Hyderabad A major fire broke out due to a blast in one of the refineries of Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited in Andhra Pradesh’s Visakhapatnam on Tuesday afternoon. A spokesman of HPCL said the fire broke out in one of the crude processing units of the plant at around 3 pm. “Safety measures and firefighting was activated immediately and fire has been extinguished,” he said. Stating that the cooling operations had been taken up, the spokesman said there were no casualties in the mishap and there was no risk to the public. “The other refinery operations are continuing as normal,” he added. Visakhapatnam deputy commissioner of police Aishwarya Rastogi told reporters that the blast took place at Unit-3 of the HPCL refinery in the old terminal building. “Immediately, five fire tenders from the premises were pressed into service and more fire tenders were being rushed,” he said, adding that the exact reasons for the fire mishap were yet to be ascertained. Thick plumes of smoke billowed in the areas surrounding the HPCL plant, including Gajuwaka and Malkapuram areas on the outskirts of Visakhapatnam. Soon after the fire broke out, warning sirens was sounded and all the employees of the refinery were evacuated from the plant. Though it was suspected that at least six workers were trapped in the unit that exploded, it was later found that all of them managed to come out and save their lives. The HPCL authorities rushed a few ambulances to the spot and extend medical help to any worker who might have received injuries. Andhra Pradesh home minister Mekathoti Sucharita expressed shock over the refinery incident and spoke to senior police officials in Visakhapatnam to find out the details. She said apart from five fire tenders within the HPCL premises, seven more fire tenders were pressed into service to douse the fire. “There are no casualties or injuries. There is no need for the people of Visakhapatnam to be panicky,” she said. In September 1997, the HPCL, Visakhapatnam witnessed the worst-ever fire accident killing 60 people and injuring 20 others. The fire started after an LPG pipeline leak caused an explosion in the storage area of the refinery. The blaze was still raging 12 hours after the explosion at around 6.30 am. About 70,000 people in the vicinity of the plant fled their homes to safer places. The local administration opened 10 relief camps in Visakhapatnam to accommodate the citizens till it was safe for them to return home. In August 2013, too, there was a similar fire accident in the HPCL, killing two persons and injuring another 30 people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fire-breaks-out-at-vizag-s-hpcl-unit-no-casualties-101621969570966.html
26-05-2021||India||Row over admin removing cloth from bodies at ghats in UP’s Prayagraj||A cleanliness drive by the administration near the cremation ghats where hundreds of bodies were buried recently has given rise to allegations by locals of a clean-up done to contain bad press. But officials have rubbished these claims and called it a routine exercise to keep the ghats clean.Multiple videos and photographs have emerged that purportedly show municipal workers pulling off yellow shrouds from unidentified graves at Shringverpur and other ghats in Prayagraj. Photos and videos of these shallow graves on the sand banks of Ganga and Yamuna rivers, and of dogs feeding on the bodies, had gone viral on social media, and made international headlines. Many of these bodies were suspected to be of people who had died of Covid, and whose family members didn’t have the money to cremate them.At Shringverpur, locals claimed, government officials had been inspecting the ghat for the last few days. “On Monday, dozens of labourers were engaged to remove the shrouds from the graves along with the bamboo stumps used for separation. These were collected along with other items scattered on the sand and burnt at another spot,” said a local on condition of anonymity.A similar exercise was carried out at Phaphamau Ghat too, locals said.Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday targeted the UP government by tweeting a cleaning video from Prayagraj. In an accompanying message in Hindi, she said, “No treatment was received when they were living. Many even did not receive the honour of proper last rites. They did not even find a place in government data. Now, even Ramnami (sacred shroud) are being snatched from the graves. What cleaning drive is this? This is disrespect — of the dead, of the religion, of humanity.”However, Prayagraj mayor Abhilasha Gupta denied these allegations, saying that the cleanliness drive at cremation ghats was an ongoing exercise.“The nagar nigam (municipal body) is carrying out a cleanliness drive at all cremation ghats, which come under its jurisdiction. Shrouds and other clothes were already blown away during a storm, which lashed the region a few days ago. Old blankets, pillows, sheets, water bottles and polythene found scattered at the ghats were removed,” the mayor said, adding that traders and residents have been asked to maintain cleanliness at the ghats and keep dustbins.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/row-over-admin-removing-cloth-from-bodies-at-ghats-in-up-s-prayagraj-101621969395832.html
26-05-2021||India||Active caseload decline as more recover in B’luru||Bengaluru: In the last 10 days, Bengaluru has recorded 88,772 new Covid-19 cases and 233,499 recoveries, reducing the active caseload in the city, according to state health department figures. In the same period, all 30 districts of Karnataka (including Bengaluru) have recorded 301,042 new infections and 477,192 recoveries, according to data compiled by Hindustan Times, based on the health bulletin of the state.The recovery rate in Bengaluru has increased from 64.85% to 78.82%, which is among the lowest in the state that has an average of nearly 80%, adding to worries of prolonging the duration of the second wave of infections.“Two things will tell us that we are probably over the peak; one is more number of recoveries compared to admission and the second is if the death rate is more because fatalities increase 14 days after the peak,” Dr N Ravi, neurovirologist and member of Karnataka’s technical advisory committee (TAC) on Covid-19, said.The number of recoveries has remained consistent in most parts of the state. Experts said Bengaluru and a few other districts peaked together and will see an earlier decline in numbers while the regions that had a contained number of cases so far, could now witness a surge.Karnataka recorded 22,758 new infections on Tuesday as against 38,224 recoveries, according to data from the state health department. The positivity rate has seen a decline and stood at 21.13%.Bengaluru recorded 6,243 new infections and 13,210 recoveries on Tuesday. However, the fatality rate reached a new high of 2.58% as 588 more deaths were recorded across Karnataka, including 350 in Bengaluru, data shows.Dr Ravi said the higher number of deaths in Bengaluru as compared to rest of the state was because cases peaked fastest in the city. He said current predictions indicate that by mid-June, Bengaluru should reach pre-surge levels. Most other districts in the state would see their numbers come down to pre-surge levels by the end of June, he added.Bidar and Kalaburagi, the two border districts in the north-eastern part of the state, have shown significant decline in new infections, data shows. The two districts, along with Bengaluru, were among the most impacted regions in the state.There were 1,260 new infections in Belagavi, 1,285 in Hassan, 2,241 in Mysuru and 1,312 in Tumakuru, according to the daily bulletin.However, several districts have recorded a higher death toll, data shows.There were 24 deaths in Belagavi, 20 in Ballari, 19 in Shivamogga, 17 in Mysuru, 15 in Uttara Kannada, 14 in Tumakuru, 12 in Dharwad, and 11 each in Bengaluru Rural, Kalaburagi and Hassan, according to the state health bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/active-caseload-decline-as-more-recover-in-bluru-101621969510976.html
26-05-2021||India||MP Tejasvi Surya calls off paid vaccination drive amid backlash||Bengaluru At a time when Karnataka has been facing a severe shortage of Covid-19 vaccines, a mass paid vaccination programme initiated by South Bengaluru MP Tejasvi Surya was called off after facing severe backlashes from all quarters on Tuesday.That Surya had access to Covid-19 vaccines while government hospitals did not, attracted criticism from residents and experts alike. Many took to social media to express their displeasure, blaming that the BS Yediyurappa-led administration failed to ensure supplies to public hospitals while allowing private interests to prevail.“Please note that there will be no vaccination drive at Shalini Grounds today. A link to register for appointments on the hospital portal will soon be updated. Please circulate this message and ensure the right message reaches the public. Thank you,” the office of Surya tweeted on Tuesday.Surya could not be reached for a comment. His office, however, told HT that several private hospitals in Bengaluru have been conducting similar vaccination drives.“We are partnering with a few small private hospitals and nursing homes, helping them conduct vaccination drives in order to vaccinate maximum number of people at a faster pace. We’re partnering with smaller private hospitals and nursing homes with the intention of reaching out to middle-class families of Bengaluru South who may not always visit a large corporate chain and are more familiar with the neighbourhood nursing homes,” the office of Surya told HT on Tuesday.It added the MP’s office was also working with the government to ensure steady supply of vaccines.The controversy came at a time when Bengaluru and the rest of Karnataka, which are among the worst Covid-19 impacted regions in the country, have been facing acute shortage of vaccines. Several vaccination centres across the state, and particularly in Bengaluru, were unable to inoculate people citing lack of stocks for nearly a week.Meanwhile, Dr K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s minister for health, family welfare and medical education, said the state received 125,000 doses of Bharat Biotech-manufactured Covaxin on Tuesday under the central quote. “Total Covaxin doses received under Central quota is 12,91,280. Total Covaxin doses received under direct purchase is 1,44,170,” Sudhakar said in a Twitter post.On Monday, Karnataka received 300,000 doses of Covishield vaccine from Pune-based Serum Institute of India, taking the total Centre’s allocation to the state to 10.5 million. In addition, Karnataka has also procured 1.35 million doses through direct purchase, officials said.“Daily vaccine production capacity: 28.3 lakh doses. Daily vaccines being administered: 12-13 lakh. Only 43%. Where are the remaining doses? Not getting produced? If so, what is the Govt doing? If yes, they are busy producing positive perception,” Krishna Byre Gowda, former minister and Congress legislator from Byatrayanapura in Bengaluru, said.Karnataka has so far administered 12,310,317 vaccine doses, of which only 2,636,589 persons have received both doses, a coverage of just around 4%, according to government data. Only 64156 doses were administered in Karnataka till 3.30 pm on Tuesday, according to the daily bulletin of the state health department.In Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) area, 2,395,207 doses have been administered, of which 559,008 persons have received both doses, according to data. Only 1249 persons received the second dose in Bengaluru, data shows.Several Bengaluru residents complained of having to wait for hours at crowded vaccination centres and return home without getting inoculated. One of the problems they cited was difficulties to secure a slot on CoWIN app, which the Karnataka government was trying to circumvent by building an interface. However, the proposal was yet to see any progress, leaving much of the state to depend on CoWIN app as confirmation of registration and appointment are a must to get a jab. More so, it also acts as a pass that allows movement of people during the statewide lockdown, which has been extended till June 7.The state government has prioritised the second dose for those above 45 years of age. The vaccination drive for an estimated 35 million people in 18-44 age group has been initiated and called off at least thrice since May 1, with only a handful of private hospitals, which managed to procure vaccines on their own, continue to administer doses to this age group.In Karnataka, the daily infection count has declined over the past few days, but experts said it was too early to celebrate pointing at the fatality rate still being above 2% consistently for the last three days. The state like other parts of the country was relying on vaccination in its battle against the pandemic.On Tuesday, Karnataka reported 22,758 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the active caseload to 424,381. Bengaluru accounted for 6,243 new infections, which pushed its active caseload to 219,551. At least 26,399 people have died due to Covid-19 in the state so far, including 588 in the 24 hours on Monday. Bengaluru accounted for 350 new fatalities on Tuesday, according to health department data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-tejasvi-surya-calls-off-paid-vaccination-drive-amid-backlash-101621969452165.html
26-05-2021||India||Row over admin removing cloth from bodies at ghats in U.P’s Prayagraj||Prayagraj: A cleanliness drive by the administration near the cremation ghats where hundreds of bodies were buried recently has given rise to allegations by locals of a clean-up done to contain bad press. But officials have rubbished these claims and called it a routine exercise to keep the ghats clean. Multiple videos and photographs have emerged that purportedly show municipal workers pulling off yellow shrouds from unidentified graves at Shringverpur and other ghats in Prayagraj. Photos and videos of these shallow graves on the sand banks of Ganga and Yamuna rivers, and of dogs feeding on the bodies, had gone viral on social media, and made international headlines. Many of these bodies were suspected to be of people who had died of Covid, and whose family members didn’t have the money to cremate them. At Shringverpur, locals claimed, government officials had been inspecting the ghat for the last few days. “On Monday, dozens of labourers were engaged to remove the shrouds from the graves along with the bamboo stumps used for separation. These were collected along with other items scattered on the sand and burnt at another spot,” said a local on condition of anonymity. A similar exercise was carried out at Phaphamau Ghat too, locals said. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday targeted the UP government by tweeting a cleaning video from Prayagraj. In an accompanying message in Hindi, she said, “No treatment was received when they were living. Many even did not receive the honour of proper last rites. They did not even find a place in government data. Now, even Ramnami (sacred shroud) are being snatched from the graves. What cleaning drive is this? This is disrespect — of the dead, of the religion, of humanity.” However, Prayagraj mayor Abhilasha Gupta denied these allegations, saying that the cleanliness drive at cremation ghats was an ongoing exercise. “The nagar nigam (municipal body) is carrying out a cleanliness drive at all cremation ghats, which come under its jurisdiction. Shrouds and other clothes were already blown away during a storm, which lashed the region a few days ago. Old blankets, pillows, sheets, water bottles and polythene found scattered at the ghats were removed,” the mayor said, adding that traders and residents have been asked to maintain cleanliness at the ghats and keep dustbins.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/row-over-admin-removing-cloth-from-bodies-at-ghats-in-u-p-s-prayagraj-101621969391384.html
26-05-2021||India||WHO nod likely by September: Bharat Biotech||Bharat Biotech on Tuesday announced that it applied to WHO (World Health Organisation) for emergency use listing of its Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine, Covaxin, and expected approvals anytime between July and September, amidst rising concerns that the lack of such recognition could come in the way of international travel by those who received this vaccine.“Application for emergency use listing (EUL) has been submitted to WHO-Geneva, regulatory approvals are expected Jul-Sept 2021,” the Hyderabad-based company said in a statement about its inactivated whole virion Covid-19 vaccine.As the world opens up after the pandemic, it is likely that countries will put in place restrictions on incoming travellers. In some cases, this may mean mandating vaccination, by a vaccine recognised either by that country or WHO.According to Bharat Biotech, regulatory approvals for Covaxin are currently in process in at least 60 countries, including the US, Brazil, and Hungary.So far, the company has obtained emergency use authorisations in 13 countries including Mexico, Philippines, Iran, Paraguay, Guatemala, Nicaragua, Guyana, Venezuela, Botswana, and Zimbabwe.In the second interim analysis of the phase 3 clinical trial results that the company released last month, Covaxin has been found to have an efficacy of about 78%.The company’s vaccine has also been found to be effective against mutant strains of the virus.“This is something where we’re still gaining data on a daily basis. But the most recent data, was looking at convalescent Sera of Covid-19 cases and people who received the vaccine used in India, the Covaxin. It was found to neutralise the 617 variants,” Dr Anthony Fauci, prominent American infectious disease expert, had earlier said.The company is yet to publish the final results of its trial.“Most countries recommend vaccinations against Covid-19. Unvaccinated travellers can travel with negative RT-PCR tests prior to travel, in the absence of any other country specific travel restrictions,” the company added in its statement.Bharat Biotech announced last week that it would scale up Covaxin production to up to 1 billion doses a year by the last quarter of this year.Covaxin was developed with seed strains received from the National Institute of Virology, and the phase 3 clinical trial was co-funded by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).Bharat Biotech is selling a vaccine dose for ₹400 to state governments, and ₹1200 to private hospitals. Pricing for international markets and supplies to government’s under emergency use authorizations have been established between $15 and $ 20 per vaccine dose. Like many others, Covaxin is a two-dose vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/whonod-likely-by-september-bharat-biotech-101621968450689.html
26-05-2021||India||200 million vaccine doses administered in India||The total number of doses of vaccines administered across India crossed 200 million on Wednesday, a significant landmark for the country’s inoculation campaign.Till 7pm on Wednesday, India has administered 200,494,991 doses of the vaccine to nearly 157 million (156,999,310) people across the country, according to Union health ministry data. Of these, 113.5 million people have received just the first dose, while another 43.5 million people have been fully vaccinated, data shows.Of the nearly 200.5 million doses administered till Wednesday, 20% were administered to health care workers and frontline workers, 6.4% to the general public in the 18-44-year age group and the remaining 73.6% of shots were given to those above the age of 45 years.A total of 75.5 million were given to those above the age of 60 years (57.1 first doses, and 18.4 second shots), while 72 million shots were administered to those between the age of 45 and 60 years (62 million first shots and 10 million second shots). These categories were followed by 23.5 million doses to frontline workers (15.2 first shots, 8.4 second doses) and 16.5 doses (9.8 first shots, 6.7 second) to health care workers in the country.Those in the 18-44 years age group have received 12.9 million doses till Wednesday night, all of which were first shots, data shows||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/200-million-vaccine-doses-administered-in-india-101621968424709.html
26-05-2021||India||SC denies stay on TMC leaders’ house arrest in Narada case||The Supreme Court on Tuesday refused to interfere with a high court order putting two Trinamool Congress (TMC) ministers and a prominent MLA under house arrest in connection with the 2016 Narada sting tapes, stating that their personal liberty and protests by chief minister Mamata Banerjee against their arrests by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) could not be conflated.The bench of justices Vineet Saran and BR Gavai found no rationale in a CBI petition against Calcutta high court’s May 21 order of sending the accused to house-arrest and to treat it as judicial custody. It pointed out that if the agency was aggrieved by West Bengal CM Banerjee and the state law minister Moloy Ghatak’s protests, it should rather proceed against them under suitable provisions of the law, instead of citing their demonstrations as grounds to cancel the relief granted to the TMC leaders.“We don’t appreciate such dharnas etc. But if a CM or a law minister is taking law into their own hands, should the accused be made to suffer? You can proceed against the persons who tried to take the law into their own hands... But we wouldn’t like to mix the liberty of a citizen with some acts of politicians. You can take actions available in law against the politicians but we won’t comprise the liberty of the citizens,” the bench told solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who appeared for CBI.Mehta sought to emphasise that the rule of law was a casualty in the state as the CM sat on a protest inside the CBI office on May 17 after the TMC leaders were arrested, while the law minister camped at the CBI court with thousands of supporters. This prevented the CBI prosecutor to go to the court to oppose their bail, said the SG, adding the issue involved was not just of bail or house arrest but of a state administration interfering with the course of justice.But the bench was categorical that the CBI required to make up its mind whether it was challenging the house arrest order or not, because the issue about the CM’s protest must be pursued by in appropriate proceedings under the available provisions of law.“In a bail matter, how far can we go? Liberty of a person’s has to be seen as the first thing. Conduct of others has to be seen in appropriate proceedings as and when they are initiated...We don’t support the action of the CM or the law minister but the issues are different here. Nobody is above the law. You should take action against them if you think they have taken the law into their own hands,” the bench told the SG.Mehta, on his part, said that the May 17 order of granting bail TMC leaders Madan Mitra, Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim was vitiated since there was pressure mounted on the court by protests, and therefore, the CBI wanted the matter to be taken out of the state.The bench, however, replied: “We don’t feel that out judiciary, including the district judiciary, is affected by mob. We can’t demoralise our judiciary by transferring the matter like this...if we transfer the matter outside the high court, we will be demoralising the high court. Why should the high court be deprived of hearing the matter. Five judges are now hearing it. They are also constitutional courts and we will put them in the same pedestal as this court.”While the SG questioned how and why the high court chose to send the TMC leaders to house arrest three days after staying their release on bail, the bench said it was in turn amused by how the high court stayed their bail on May 17 after a late evening hearing without even granting audience to the accused.“In fact, the high court acted in an extraordinary manner at your instance when the matter was already pending before the CBI court. And the bail was stayed without even hearing the accused. This court has seen it many times when special benches are set up for ensuring the liberty of the accused. We are seeing it for the first time when a special bench was constituted to take away the liberty of someone,” the bench exclaimed.Noting that the arrests were made in the case after a charge sheet had already been filed, the bench asked the SG: “Who are in a position to influence the witnesses more? Those against whom the charge sheet has been filed, or those against whom the charge sheet hasn’t been filed? There are two sets of accused here. Among them, who are in a better position to influence the witnesses.”Mehta said he would not want to respond since it was not a legal question.Charge sheets have not been filed in the case against Mamata’s former close aides Mukul Roy and Suvendhu Adhikari, both of whom later joined the BJP. Mamata had a cliffhanger in Nandigram to the BJP’s Adhikari in the recent assembly polls.The court then gave two choices to Mehta; either withdraw the petition and go back to the Calcutta high court, where a five-judge bench has been constituted to all the issues relating to this case, or get an order on his petition from the top court which will have to hear the lawyers for the accused and the state.Senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, who was appearing for Hakim, the urban development minister in the state government, and Mukherjee, who holds the panchayati raj and rural affairs portfolios. Senior lawyer Sidharth Luthra appeared for Mitra, who is an MLA while senior counsel Vikas Singh was appearing for the state.With the writing on the wall, the SG opted to withdraw the petition with liberty to raise all contentions before the five-judge bench of the high court, which is expected to take up the matter on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-denies-stay-on-tmc-leaders-house-arrest-in-narada-case-101621969152823.html
26-05-2021||India||Manhunt in Antigua as Choksi goes missing||New Delhi: Police in Antigua have launched a search for fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi, who went missing in the tiny Caribbean island on Sundayevening after heading to a popular local restaurant for dinner, according to his lawyer and a missing persons notice issued by the country’s Royal Police Force. Indian agencies have also alerted Interpol for more information about his whereabouts, people familiar with the developments said. Reports in the Antiguan media on Monday suggested that Choksi may have fled to Cuba fearing his extradition to India, but his lawyer Vijay Aggarwal denied the contention, and Indian agencies said they had no such information. Prime Minister Gaston Browne, in a video posted by antiguanewsroom.com, said in the Antiguan parliament on Tuesday that there is no “reliable information to date to confirm that he has fled the country. It is likely that he may still be here and law enforcement is utilizing all efforts, including all intelligence to locate him.” He added that in case it is true that Choksi has indeed fled the country, “we could get judgement in absentia and we will revoke his citizenship in due course.” Other than the extradition proceedings, Choksi is also fighting another case on the revocation of his citzenship in the island nation. Browne said that “if indeed, Mr Choksi has fled the country as speculated, it would have been by boat, because no aircraft with any flight plan (to Cuba) and any passenger by the name of Mehul Choksi would have been found by the authority,” adding that “no plane would have landed in this country illegally.”  “Mehul Choksi is missing. His family members are worried and anxious and had called me to discuss. Antigua police are investigating. Family is in the dark and worried about his safety,” his lawyer Aggarwal saidChoksi, who has sought refuge in Antigua after allegedly cheating Punjab National Bank of ₹13,578 crore along with his nephew Nirav Modi, and fleeing India in 2018, left his home on Monday “to go for dinner at a well-known restaurant in the southern part of the island and was never seen again”, according to a report in the antiguanewsroom.com. Modi is facing extradition proceedings in the UK. The diamond merchant’s vehicle was found at Jolly Harbour, a popular nightlife hub on the 280 square km island with a population of less than 100,000 that is famous for its cricketing antecedents -- it is the home of talismanic West Indies batsman Sir Vivian Richards and iconic fast bowler Andy Roberts. Antigua famously has 365 beaches, “one for every day of the year”, according to its tourism tagline.Police in Antigua have sought public assistance for information on Choksi, who, according to a police statement, was last seen at about 5:15pm (local time) before leaving home in a car, which has since been recovered. After an official complaint was lodged at the Johnson Point Police Station, the police launched a manhunt. “Based on additional information received, the police have conducted numerous searches but to no avail,” the local police said in the statement on Monday. Giving information on his physical attributes for identification purpose, the police statement asked people to inform the Johnson Point Police Station or the Criminal Investigations Department (CID) if they had any information on his whereabouts. “Mehul is described as being of Indian descent, brown in complexion, five feet six inches (5’ 6”) in height, heavily built with a balding hairline. The police are seeking the assistance of the public in knowing the whereabouts of Mr Choksi,” the police statement said. A report in a Caribbean news website Associates Times, quoting a person named Govin, a purported close aide of Choksi, claimed that Choksi had “left the country a few days ago. and is currently living in a safe house in based in Cuba”. The claim, however, appeared at odds with the police’s version of events, and of his last sighting.Indian officials that HT spoke to, both in Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate (ED) said they are in touch with concerned Antiguan officials through the ministry of external affairs (MEA), and were confident that Choksi would be traced soon. India has been pursuing Choksi’s extradition in Antigua since 2018, and an Interpol red notice is pending against him. In a charge sheet filed last year, ED alleged that Choksi did not just defraud Indian banks, but customers and lenders in Dubai and the US as well. His assets worth ₹2,500 crore have already been attached. As reported by HT in March, Antigua & Barbuda has initiated the process to cancel the Choksi’s citizenship granted under the Caribbean nation’s Citizenship by Investment Programme (CIP) in November 2017. He has challenged the move in a court in the Caribbean nation. India has an extradition arrangement with Antigua and Barbuda. As per the provisions of the Extradition Act, 1993 of Antigua and Barbuda, a fugitive may be extradited to a designated Commonwealth country or a state with which there are general or special arrangements or a bilateral treaty. Choksi’s extradition is pending since 2018 in court there, which he has challenged. People familiar with his citizenship said that Choksi has approached the high court there against Antigua’s process to revoke his citizenship, but the whole legal battle may take some time. His nephew Nirav Modi is currently lodged in a UK jail. The Westminster’s court in London, in February this year, ordered his extradition, which he has challenged in the UK high court. Sherbir Panag, Partner at Panag and Babu and an international legal expert on white collar crimes, said – “Assuming that Mehul Choksi has left the country after he felt that India’s diplomatic efforts to bring him back here are working, he will try to place himself in a jurisdiction which doesn’t have extradition arrangement/treaty with India”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manhunt-in-antigua-as-choksi-goes-missing-101621968970925.html
26-05-2021||India||Jayant Chaudhary elected new RLD president||Soon after he was elected the new national president of the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD), Jayant Chaudhary on Tuesday extended his party’s full support to the farmers’ proposed May 26 dharna to mark six months of their protest against the Centre’s three farm laws passed in September last year.He asked his party leaders and workers to participate in the dharna in large numbers. He also appealed to the Centre to resolve the farmers’ issue by inviting them to a dialogue. Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of over 40 farm unions, has organised the dharna.Earlier, the decision to elevate Chaudhary, 42, who was till now the party vice president, was taken during a virtual meeting of the party’s national executive. His elevation to the post comes following the demise of party president and his father Ajit Singh, who had succumbed to Covid on May 6.During the meeting, party’s general secretary Trilok Tyagi proposed Jayant’s name for the post of national president which was approved by former MP and national general secretary Munshiram Pal and unanimously supported by all members of the national executive.In his first address after being elected president, he expressed his gratitude to his party leaders and workers and called upon them to follow in the footsteps of party ideologues Chaudhary Charan Singh (his grandfather and former PM) and Ajit Singh ( former union minister and a multiple-time MP). He also asked them to work towards making the party organisation stronger. He also said his party’s struggle to espouse the farmers’ cause will continue.Expressing his concern over the prevailing pandemic, Jayant accused the state and the central governments of failing to control its spread. He said Covid vaccination in rural areas should be expedited with the help of accredited social health activists (ASHAs) and Aanganwadi workers.Born on December 27, 1978, Jayant Chaudhary, a former Lok Sabha MP from Mathura (2009-2014), graduated from Delhi University and in 2002 did his MSc in accounting and finance from the London School of Economics and Political Science.Meanwhile, senior Samajwadi Party leader and former member, state planning commission, prof Sudhir Panwar congratulated Jayant Chaudhary on his elevation as the RLD national president.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jayant-chaudhary-elected-new-rld-president-101621967864623.html
26-05-2021||India||Deadline ends; aim to comply: FB||The deadline for social media companies to put in place new mechanisms to comply with controversial new rules announced in February ended on Tuesday, and at least one company, Facebook, saying it was working on the new rules but that “a few of the issues need more engagement with the government”. The rules pertain to new guidelines notified under the Information Technology Act on February 25, giving digital companies three months to implement new content moderation mechanisms, appoint new officers who will be liable for compliance, and adopt features such as traceability of messages and voluntary user verification.Facebook on Tuesday said it was working on the new rules, but indicated there were unresolved issues. “We aim to comply with the provisions of the IT [Information Technology] rules and continue to discuss a few of the issues which need more engagement with the government. Pursuant to the IT Rules, we are working to implement operational processes and improve efficiencies,” a Facebook spokesperson said.Twitter and WhatsApp did not respond to requests for a comment. Google, which recently issued an advertisement to hire a compliance officer, too did not respond to HT on Tuesday. A ministry official said that the rules had been notified and no further discussions on those were happening. “There are always adjacent issues, these may be discussed, but the intermediary guidelines have already come into force,” this person said, asking not to be named. On Monday, electronics and information technology ministry officials warned of stern action if the companies did not adhere to the deadline. This person said that none of the companies have informed the government of the compliance or shared details of the officers they were meant to have appointed on their websites.A ministry representative did not elaborate on what actions the government was considering.The new policy also includes bringing digital news publishers under the ambit of Section 69(A) of the Information Technology (IT) Act. The provision empowers the government to order the blocking of access to content that is considered a threat to public order. An officer, who will head an inter-ministerial committee at the apex of the three-tier self-regulatory system, can also issue this order under emergency circumstances where the companies will not be given a chance for explanation. The committee will have to meet within 48 hours to ratify the emergency block.The news media publishers and over the top (or streaming) such as Netflix and Hotstar, will fall under the ambit of the ministry of information and broadcasting. The ministry, under the guidelines, has sought details regarding the platforms but the form to furnish these has not been made available yet. The rules also mandate increased due diligence by social media companies and data sharing, such as information about the first originator, with enforcement agencies. They define significant social media intermediaries as platforms that have five million users or more.Experts said social media companies will not be banned if they do not meet the deadline. “That (ban) will not happen, as it is not what the provisions say,” said to NS Nappinai, Supreme Court lawyer and founder of Cyber Saathi. “Moreover, the platforms seem to be under the misapprehension that only by appointing a compliance officer they will become subject to India’s jurisdiction. They are already subject to the country’s laws and are bound to comply with them,” she said.Nappinai added that there is no reason to assume that there will be an abuse of the guidelines. “The companies had three months to segregate what’s possible to comply with and what they may need additional time for,” she said. “To ask for the appointment of a compliance officer or grievance redressal officer is not too much to expect in a country of seven million users,” she said.Internet Freedom Foundation trustee Apar Gupta said that the most significant impact of the guidelines will be on instant messaging applications. “That will require a companywide policy change,” Gupta said. “It will also be interesting to see what kind of immediate prosecution the ministry opts for, with the most tangible form emerging as the loss of intermediary status for the company. These new guidelines significantly undermine encryption and privacy.” Under part four of the guidelines, the intermediaries are required to appoint compliance officers, “responsible for ensuring compliance with the Act and rules” and be “liable in any proceedings relating to any relevant third-party information, data or communication link made available or hosted by that intermediary where he fails to ensure that such intermediary observes due diligence while discharging its duties under the Act”.Intermediaries are also required to appoint nodal contact persons for 24x7 coordination with law enforcement agencies and resident grievance officers.India-made Twitter alternative Koo announced it had complied with the new requirements and appointed Rahul Satyakam as the resident grievance officer. The company has also appointed a chief compliance officer and nodal contact officer, and said it was only naming the grievance officer in keeping with the legal requirement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deadline-ends-aim-to-comply-fb-101621967651703.html
26-05-2021||India||Lunar eclipse today: Where to watch in India||A lunar eclipse on Wednesday will be visible for a short span of time from the north-eastern parts of India, West Bengal, Odisha and the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, the Ministry of Earth Sciences has informed.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said that the lunar eclipse will also be visible in the regions covering South America, North America, Asia, Australia, Antarctica, the Pacific Ocean and the Indian Ocean.A lunar eclipse occurs on a full moon day when the earth comes in between the sun and the moon and when all the three objects are aligned. A total lunar eclipse occurs when the entire moon comes under the umbral shadow of the earth.Let's know at what time and where the lunar eclipse can be seen in India:-- The partial phase of the eclipse will begin at 3.15 pm and end at 6.23 pm in India, while the total phase will begin at 4.39 pm and end at 4.58 pm.--According to the IMD, the eclipse from Port Blair can be seen from 5.38 pm and viewed for 45 minutes. The lunar eclipse can be seen in West Bengal's Puri and Malda at 6.21pm, but only for two minutes.--In India, just after the moonrise, the partial phase of the eclipse will end in the northeastern parts of India (except Sikkim), parts of West Bengal, some parts of Odisha, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, according to IMD.--The total duration of the eclipse is 5 hours, 2 minutes. The total duration of the partial phases is 2 hours, 53 minutes. The duration of the full eclipse is 14 minutes.--During the total lunar eclipse, the moon will be much below the eastern horizon, therefore, people cannot see the beginning of this eclipse from India. People living in eastern India can see the concluding phase of the lunar eclipse which will be seen very close to the eastern horizon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lunar-eclipse-on-may-26-where-to-watch-in-india-101621918535906.html
