28-05-2021||India||PLA can deploy troops at short notice, says Naravane||New Delhi: Despite the pullback by the Indian and Chinese armies at strategic heights on both banks of Pangong Tso in February, the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) continues to deploy its soldiers and mechanised elements including tanks in its “immediate depth” across the Line of Actual Control (LAC) from where the PLA “can employ them [in forward areas] at short notice,” army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane said on Friday. Immediate depth refers to a distance of 150km to 200km from the contested LAC. “Hence, our troops are also in a high state of readiness and alert. Things appear to be stable as of now, but that doesn’t mean one can become complacent. We are keeping an eye on the developments there. Take the case of rotation of PLA units. A new unit may come but the old one may not go back,” the army chief said. Both armies have 50,000-60,000 troops each in the Ladakh theatre, and deployments haven’t thinned after the disengagement in Pangong Tso, Naravane said. India and China have been locked in a standoff for over a year in the region, and are currently negotiating a withdrawal of troops and weapons from friction points on the disputed border. The focus of current military talks is on negotiating the next steps of a complex disengagement process that was completed in Pangong Tso in mid-February with the pullback of frontline troops and weapons. The Indian Army is now focussing on resolving outstanding problems with PLA at other friction points. After a promising start in the Pangong Tso area, the disengagement process between the two armies has hit a wall as a result of PLA’s reluctance to pull back its forward deployed troops from Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang, and restore the status quo ante of April 2020. “We should not expect results after every round of talks. Disengagement at Pangong Tso took place after several rounds of talks. The process to hold the next round of talks (12th round) is on. It’s taking time because of the Covid situation but the talks will happen,” Naravane said. The 11th round of talks between corps commander-ranked officers was held on April 9. During those talks, the Indian Army told PLA that disengagement at all friction points on the disputed border was crucial for the de-escalation of the conflict. “Our stance while arriving at disengagement in Pangong Tso area or in the remaining areas is constant and there is no change in it. We want the status quo ante of April 2020 to be restored. The Indian Army has made it clear to the PLA that de-escalation will only be considered once disengagement is completed to the mutual satisfaction of both sides,” the army chief said. The Indian Army’s patrolling activity has been affected in Hot Springs and Gogra, where rival troops are forward deployed and where skeletal disengagement took place last year, but the gains could not be consolidated. The PLA’s deployments in Depsang have also hindered access of Indian soldiers to routes including the ones leading to Patrolling Points (PP) 10, 11, 11-A, 12 and 13. To be sure, the problems at Depsang predate the current border standoff “The areas being remote, there is a requirement to arrive at a solution and also avoid recurrence of such a situation. The resolution should honour mutual sensitivity and interests,” he said. Disengagement of frontline troops on the LAC is the first crucial step to restore peace and tranquillity in eastern Ladakh. “Disengagement is just the first phase of a broader, more comprehensive plan of establishing the status quo ante of April 2020. It will be followed by de-escalation and finally de-induction of forces. We continue to remain vigilant,” Naravane said. The two armies held the first round of military talks almost a year ago on June 6, 2020, to resolve the border row. However, the Galwan Valley skirmish on June 15, 2020, created severe complications and dashed hopes of any significant breakthrough. The brutal clash that left 20 Indian soldiers and an undisclosed number of Chinese troops dead created a huge trust deficit between the two sides. Trust levels are bound to be low when a major standoff takes place between two countries leading to casualties on both sides, the army chief said. “However, it is always our endeavour that this trust deficit should not hinder the negotiation process. As two professional armies, it is imperative that we resolve the situation and make progress to restore trust at the earliest,” Naravane said. Asked to comment on the situation at the LAC in other sectors, especially Naku La in Sikkim, the army chief said the situation was peaceful “without any major instances of violence”. “A few areas, due to differing perceptions of the LAC, have the potential of flaring up but are managed by local commanders of both sides. Aggression is not the solution to any problem. Problems can only be solved by mutual understanding and respect,” he said. On China building villages near the LAC, the army chief said it appeared to be part of a plan to have more population in border areas. China has combined a policy of building villages close to the LAC from Xinjiang to Bhutan with simultaneously bolstering military facilities and dual-use infrastructure such as airports to keep up the pressure on India, HT reported on May 21. On PLA building infrastructure in the Ladakh theatre, Naravane said, “They never had so many people there before. So, they need to build additional infrastructure to house the additional people. We are also creating infrastructure on our side – habitat, water supply and electrification.” The army chief said the Indian Army was keeping tabs on Chinese training areas that are at a depth of 1,000 km to 1,500 km from the LAC and the PLA’s activities there. “This is the training season. The PLA has brought additional formations to these areas for training. They should go back in September,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pla-can-deploy-troops-at-short-notice-says-naravane-101622226564009.html
28-05-2021||India||Govt cuts seating capacity in domestic flights to 50%, fares could go up||The Union civil aviation ministry on Friday reduced the seating capacity of domestic flights from 80% to 50% of their normal capacity from June 1. Fares for domestic travel could also get costlier as the ministry also raised the lower limit on fares by 13% to 16 %.“This decision has been taken in view of the sudden surge in the number of active Covid-19 cases across the country, decrease in passenger traffic and passenger load factor (occupancy rate)", the ministry's order issued late on Friday said.The aviation ministry imposed lower and upper limits on airfares based on flight duration when services resumed on May 25 last year following complete suspension of passenger air travel for two-months.According to the order, the lower limit for flights under 40 minutes of duration will be increased from ₹2,300 to ₹2,600 -- an increase of 13%.The official order said that the government has taken this decision keeping in mind the "prevailing situation of Covid-19" in the country.Similarly, flights with duration between 40 minutes and 60 minutes will have a lower limit of ₹3,300 instead of ₹2,900 now, the order said.For domestic flights of duration between 60-90 minutes, the lower limit will go up from ₹3,500 to ₹4,000. The lower limit will go up from ₹4,100 to ₹4,700 for flights of the duration of 90-120 minutes, from ₹5,300 to ₹6,100 for flights of 120-150 minutes, from ₹6,400 to ₹7,400 for flights of 150-180 minutes and from ₹7,600 to 8,700 for flights of 180-210 minutes.When the government resumed scheduled domestic flights in India on May 25 last year after a two-month-long lockdown, the ministry had permitted the carriers to operate not more than 33% of their pre-COVID domestic services. The cap was gradually increased to 80% by December last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-cuts-seating-capacity-in-domestic-flights-to-50-fares-could-go-up-101622226192664.html
28-05-2021||India||MHA invites applications for citizenship from non-Muslim refugees from Afghanistan, Pakistan, Bangladesh||The Centre on Friday invited non-Muslims like Hindus, Sikhs, Jains and Buddhists belonging to Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan and residing in 13 districts of Gujarat, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Haryana and Punjab to apply for Indian citizenship.The Union home ministry issued a notification in this effect for immediate implementation of the order under the Citizenship Act 1955 and Rules framed under the law in 2009 even though the rules under the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) enacted in 2019 are yet to be framed by the government.When the CAA was enacted in 2019, there were widespread protests in different parts of the country and even riots took place in Delhi in early 2020 in the wake of these protests.According to the CAA, Indian citizenship will be given to non-Muslim persecuted minorities from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan -- Hindu, Sikh, Jain, Buddhist, Parsi and Christian -- who had come to India till December 31, 2014."In exercise of powers conferred under Section 16 of the Citizenship Act, 1955 (57 of 1955), the central government hereby directs that powers exercisable by it for registration as citizen of India under Section 5, or for grant of certificate of naturalisation under section 6 of the Citizenship Act 1955 in respect of any person belonging to minority community in Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan namely, Hindus, Sikhs, Buddhists, Jains, Parsis and Christians, residing in the districts mentioned and the states mentioned below....," the notification said.People who are eligible to apply for Indian citizenship are those currently living in the districts of Morbi, Rajkot, Patan and Vadodara of Gujarat, Durg and Balodabazar in Chhattisgarh, Jalore, Udaipur, Pali, Barmer and Sirohi in Rajasthan, Faridabad in Haryana and Jalandhar in Punjab."The application for registration as citizen of India or grant of certificate of naturalisation as citizen of India under the said rules (Citizenship Rules, 2009) shall be made by the applicant online," the notification said.The home ministry said the verification of the application is done simultaneously by collector or secretary (Home) of Haryana and Punjab as the case may be, at the district-level and the state-level and the application and the reports thereon shall be made accessible simultaneously to the Centre on online portal.The collector or the secretary, as the case may be, makes such inquiry as he considers necessary for ascertaining the suitability of the applicant and for that purpose forwards the application online to such agencies for verification and comments as may be required for completing such an inquiry and the instructions issued by the Centre from time-to-time in this regard shall be strictly complied with by state or union territory and district concerned, it said.The comments of the agencies referred to in clause (C) are uploaded online by such agencies and accessible to the collector or the secretary, as the case may be, and the central government.The collector or the secretary on being satisfied with the suitability of the applicant, will grant him the citizenship of India by registration or naturalisation and issue a certificate of registration or naturalisation, as the case may be, duly printed from online portal and signed by the collector or the secretary in the form as prescribed in the said rules, the notification said.The collector or the secretary shall maintain an online as well as physical register, in accordance with the said rules, containing the details of the person registered or naturalised as a citizen of India and furnish a copy thereof to the central government within seven days of such registration or naturalisation, it said."This order shall come into force on the date of its publication in the official gazette and shall remain valid until further orders," the notification said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-invites-applications-for-citizenship-from-non-muslim-refugees-from-afghanistan-pakistan-bangladesh-101622223884943.html
28-05-2021||India||Hyderabad cops file charges in ₹30,000 crore instant loan racket||The Cybercrime police of Hyderabad on Friday filed a charge-sheet in connection with a ₹30,000 crore online loan racket, based out of China, that ruined the lives of hundreds of people.The racket encouraged borrowers to take loans in Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Bengaluru, Chennai and Mumbai and charged them steep interest rates. “In Telangana, as many as seven people died by suicide unable to bear the harassment of these online lending agencies,” the police said.The police told the court that the total transactions indulged in by the accused ran into around ₹30,000 crore. “They made a profit of around ₹11,000 crore, which they have diverted to benami accounts,” the cybercrime police said.In its charge sheet, the cybercrime police said 28 persons were arrested in the case, including a key accused, Zhu Wei, and three other Chinese nationals. The kingpin of the racket, Zixia Zhang alias Jennifer, was still absconding. The racket was busted in December 2020 and the accused arrested over four months.Police said the gang, headquartered in China’s Shanghai, offered instant loans through mobile applications. Several such instant loan applications, namely Loan Gram, Cash Train, Cash Bus, AAA Cash, Super Cash, Mint Cash, Happy Cash, Loan Card, Repay One, Money Box and Monkey box were hosted on Google Play Store, the cybercrime police chargesheet said.Once the customers instal the apps, the company gets access to all contacts and other data from the mobile phone. The instant loans are granted on a commission ranging from 25 to 30 per cent.They set up four call centres in various places of India and hired executives to collect repayments, including interest, processing charges, GST, default charges.“These executives resorted to systematic abusing, harassing, and threatening of the defaulters through call centres run by them. They even blackmail the borrowers by sending fake legal notices to their relatives and family members,” the police said.The accused were booked under Sections 420 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 66 of IT Act-2008, Sections 3, 10 and 13(1) of Telangana Moneylenders Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hyderabad-cops-file-charges-in-rs-30-000-crore-instant-loan-racket-101622219905573.html
28-05-2021||India||PLA can employ troops in forward areas at short notice, says army chief Naravane||Despite the pullback by the Indian and Chinese armies at strategic heights on both banks of Pangong Tso in February, the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) continues to deploy its soldiers and mechanised elements including tanks in its “immediate depth” across the Line of Actual Control (LAC) from where the PLA “can employ them [in forward areas] at short notice,” army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane said on Friday.Immediate depth refers to a distance of 150km to 200km from the contested LAC.“Hence, our troops are also in a high state of readiness and alert. Things appear to be stable as of now, but that doesn’t mean one can become complacent. We are keeping an eye on the developments there. Take the case of rotation of PLA units. A new unit may come but the old one may not go back,” the army chief said.Both armies have 50,000-60,000 troops each in the Ladakh theatre, and deployments haven’t thinned after the disengagement in Pangong Tso, Naravane said.India and China have been locked in a standoff for over a year in the region, and are currently negotiating a withdrawal of troops and weapons from friction points on the disputed border.The focus of current military talks is on negotiating the next steps of a complex disengagement process that was completed in Pangong Tso in mid-February with the pullback of frontline troops and weapons. The Indian Army is now focussing on resolving outstanding problems with PLA at other friction points.After a promising start in the Pangong Tso area, the disengagement process between the two armies has hit a wall as a result of PLA’s reluctance to pull back its forward deployed troops from Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang, and restore the status quo ante of April 2020.“We should not expect results after every round of talks. Disengagement at Pangong Tso took place after several rounds of talks. The process to hold the next round of talks (12th round) is on. It’s taking time because of the Covid situation but the talks will happen,” Naravane said.The 11th round of talks between corps commander-ranked officers was held on April 9. During those talks, the Indian Army told PLA that disengagement at all friction points on the disputed border was crucial for the de-escalation of the conflict.“Our stance while arriving at disengagement in Pangong Tso area or in the remaining areas is constant and there is no change in it. We want the status quo ante of April 2020 to be restored. The Indian Army has made it clear to the PLA that de-escalation will only be considered once disengagement is completed to the mutual satisfaction of both sides,” the army chief said.The Indian Army’s patrolling activity has been affected in Hot Springs and Gogra, where rival troops are forward deployed and where skeletal disengagement took place last year, but the gains could not be consolidated.The PLA’s deployments in Depsang have also hindered access of Indian soldiers to routes including the ones leading to Patrolling Points (PP) 10, 11, 11-A, 12 and 13. To be sure, the problems at Depsang predate the current border standoff“The areas being remote, there is a requirement to arrive at a solution and also avoid recurrence of such a situation. The resolution should honour mutual sensitivity and interests,” he said.Disengagement of frontline troops on the LAC is the first crucial step to restore peace and tranquillity in eastern Ladakh.“Disengagement is just the first phase of a broader, more comprehensive plan of establishing the status quo ante of April 2020. It will be followed by de-escalation and finally de-induction of forces. We continue to remain vigilant,” Naravane said.The two armies held the first round of military talks almost a year ago on June 6, 2020, to resolve the border row. However, the Galwan Valley skirmish on June 15, 2020, created severe complications and dashed hopes of any significant breakthrough. The brutal clash that left 20 Indian soldiers and an undisclosed number of Chinese troops dead created a huge trust deficit between the two sides.Trust levels are bound to be low when a major standoff takes place between two countries leading to casualties on both sides, the army chief said. “However, it is always our endeavour that this trust deficit should not hinder the negotiation process. As two professional armies, it is imperative that we resolve the situation and make progress to restore trust at the earliest,” Naravane said.Asked to comment on the situation at the LAC in other sectors, especially Naku La in Sikkim, the army chief said the situation was peaceful “without any major instances of violence”.“A few areas, due to differing perceptions of the LAC, have the potential of flaring up but are managed by local commanders of both sides. Aggression is not the solution to any problem. Problems can only be solved by mutual understanding and respect,” he said.On China building villages near the LAC, the army chief said it appeared to be part of a plan to have more population in border areas. China has combined a policy of building villages close to the LAC from Xinjiang to Bhutan with simultaneously bolstering military facilities and dual-use infrastructure such as airports to keep up the pressure on India, HT reported on May 21.On PLA building infrastructure in the Ladakh theatre, Naravane said, “They never had so many people there before. So, they need to build additional infrastructure to house the additional people. We are also creating infrastructure on our side – habitat, water supply and electrification.”The army chief said the Indian Army was keeping tabs on Chinese training areas that are at a depth of 1,000 km to 1,500 km from the LAC and the PLA’s activities there. “This is the training season. The PLA has brought additional formations to these areas for training. They should go back in September,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pla-can-employ-troops-in-forward-areas-at-short-notice-says-army-chief-naravane-101622215049753.html
28-05-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 pm: Kerala CM urges PM Modi for continuous supply of Covid-19 vaccines||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Vijayan writes to PM Modi; urges him for continuous supply of Covid-19 vaccinesKerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi asking him to take measures for a continuous supply of the vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) so that the pace of the state can fully utilise its potential to inoculate people. Read moreDelhi to begin unlocking from May 31. Here’s what will be allowedDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Friday that the national capital will start lifting lockdown measures gradually from Monday, May 31. Read moreFew players in condition to play three games in 12 days: India head football coach Igor StimacRuing the lack of preparation ahead of India’s remaining games in the World Cup qualifiers, head coach Igor Stimac said the target remains qualification for the 2023 AFC Asian Cup. India are scheduled to play Qatar on June 3, Bangladesh on June 7 and Afghanistan of June 15. Read moreSpotify India announces ‘Ruk Jaana Nahi’ series to highlight Covid-19 storiesSpotify has announced a limited video and audio series titled ‘Ruk Jaana Nahi’ to highlight stories from good samaritans during the Covid-19 pandemic. The series will feature a total 8 episodes, and it will be hosted by Bollywood actor Rajkummar Rao. Read moreWatch: Water enters hospitals in Bihar’s Gaya, Hajipur after heavy rainfallAs Cyclone Yaas weakened over Bihar and East Uttar Pradesh, some hospitals in Bihar were partially flooded. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-kerala-cm-urges-pm-modi-for-continuous-supply-of-covid-19-vaccines-101622212481109.html
28-05-2021||India||Turkey invokes Mahatma Gandhi and Rumi as it delivers Covid-19 aid to India||New Delhi: Turkey invoked Mahatma Gandhi and Sufi poet Jalaluddin Rumi as it delivered 50 tonnes of relief material, including five oxygen generators, to support India’s response to a devastating second wave of coronavirus infections. The material, delivered by two Turkish A400M military cargo aircraft on Wednesday, were packed in boxes that bore the words of 13th century Sufi poet Rumi – “There is hope after despair and many suns after darkness”– and the message: “With love from Turkey to the people of India”. Turkey has joined dozens of countries that have delivered hundreds of tonnes of medical supplies and equipment, including oxygen generation plants, to help India overcome a severe shortage of oxygen and other materials amid the second wave that saw the daily infection rate breach the 400,000-mark. A statement from the Turkish embassy referred to the delivery of the supplies, including five oxygen generators, 50 ventilators, 680 oxygen cylinders, and 50,000 boxes of antiviral medicine, late on Wednesday and recalled the role played by Indian leaders in Turkey’s history. “The assistance and contribution of Indian people and prominent Indian figures like the Father of the Indian Nation, Mahatma Gandhi, who collected funds to support Turkey’s Liberation War [during] 1919-1923, and Dr Mukhtar Ahmad Ansari, who led the medical mission to Ottoman Empire and set up field hospitals to treat wounded Ottoman soldiers during the Balkan Wars in 1912, are still very much alive in the memories of Turkish people,” the statement said.Turkish ambassador Firat Sunel said the aid from his country was one of the largest consignments sent out amid the second wave. Foreign minister Mevlüt Çavuşoğlu had offered to send the relief materials during a conversation with his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar on April 26, and Ibrahim Kalin, special adviser to President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, oversaw the delivery of the aid.“Turkey supports communities across the world in their fight against the Coronavirus pandemic. We are proud to stand with the people of India in these trying times,” Kalin tweeted. External affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi thanked the Turkish Red Crescent Society in a tweet for the supplies. The Turkish aid was seen in some quarters as a move by Ankara to put bilateral ties on an even keel after they were hit in recent years by differences on the Kashmir issue and other matters. Erdoğan’s remarks on the Indian government’s handling of the situation in Kashmir had been criticised by New Delhi as interference in internal matters.Jaishankar and Çavuşoğlu met in Dushanbe on the margins of the Heart of Asia conference on Afghanistan in March, the first such interaction in more than a year. Turkey recently took on a key role in the Afghan peace process as it is set to host US-proposed talks between the Taliban and the Afghan government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/turkey-invokes-mahatma-gandhi-and-rumi-as-it-delivers-covid-19-aid-to-india-101622214323484.html
28-05-2021||India||Effects of mixing two different Covid-19 vaccines under research, say experts||Administering two different Covid-19 vaccines, specially those with similar underlying platform, is still under research and supply constraints have to be resolved so that people can take their vaccine doses on time, experts have said.A "vaccine goof up" was recently reported from Siddharthnagar in Uttar Pradesh in which some people were given Covishield in the first dose and Covaxin in the other.Experts said that of such goof up having happened at a few other places cannot be ruled out.An investigation is taking place over the incident in Siddharthnagar and officials have said it is a case of negligence.Dr Rajib Dasgupta, chairperson of the Centre of Social Medicine and Community Health at Jawaharlal Nehru University, said that mixing of vaccines or a combination of vaccines and is currently under study now."The combination of vaccines is still under investigation and research. The potential mixing of what we call a homologous boost ...homologous combination boost are vaccines that have similar mechanisms or similar platforms. Only one or two initial results are available from the trials across the world but those are interim results and not final results," he said."There is a supply problem all across the world at present. The mixing of vaccines is not authorised in India and certainly not Covaxin or Covishield," added Dr Dasgupta, who is also a member of the national committee that tracks adverse events following immunization.Delhi government is expected to receive around 91,960 doses of Covaxin in June which will only be available for those who have taken their first dose.Dr VK Paul, NITI Aayog member (Health) had said that as per protocol, the vaccination centres should stick to the same dose of vaccines, but if a mix-up has happened, "there are unlikely to be any adverse effects.""On mixing of Covishield and Covaxin we do not have any studies in India, but some countries are doing research," he added.According to the central government's vaccination protocol, the interval between first and second doses of Covaxin, manufactured by Bharat Biotech, should be at least four weeks and that for Covishield, manufactured by Serum Institute of India, should be at least 12 weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/effects-of-mixing-two-different-covid-19-vaccines-under-research-say-experts-101622210927141.html
28-05-2021||India||Maharashtra records 20,740 fresh cases of Covid-19; death toll reaches 93,198 with 424 fresh fatalities||Maharashtra recorded 20,740 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), which have taken the state’s tally to 5,692,920, according to the state health bulletin on Friday. The bulletin also showed that 424 people succumbed to the viral disease in the last 24 hours and now Maharashtra’s death toll has risen to 93,198.Friday's tally marks a slight dip from the 21,273 Covid-19 cases recorded on Thursday, marking the ninth consecutive day of the state recording less than 30,000 daily infections. Maharashtra also recorded a negligible dip in its daily death toll—425 fatalities were reported on Thursday as compared to Friday’s 424.Mumbai recorded 924 new Covid-19 cases and now the capital city’s caseload stands at 702,522, according to the bulletin. Mumbai’s death toll now stands at 14,750 after 30 fatalities were reported in the city. On Thursday, Mumbai recorded 1258 cases of the coronavirus disease and 36 related deaths.According to the bulletin, 264,076 samples were tested on Friday, which have pushed the total number of samples tested till date to 34,350,186 and marks an increase from the 261,151 samples tested a day before.The Maharashtra government announced on Thursday that its home isolation policy was being terminated in districts with a high Covid-19 positivity rate. “We are now setting up Covid-19 Care Centres at village and tehsil levels. Infected patients should be isolated at these centres," state health minister Rajesh Tope said on Thursday.Vaccination is also being ramped up in districts that have recorded low levels of inoculation, the minister said, adding that some districts have recorded as high as 60% inoculations while some are lagging behind with just 3% of their population being vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-records-20-740-fresh-cases-of-covid-19-death-toll-reaches-93-198-with-424-fresh-fatalities-101622211536962.html
28-05-2021||India||Vijayan writes to PM Modi; urges him for continuous supply of Covid-19 vaccines||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi asking him to take measures for a continuous supply of the vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) so that the pace of the state can fully utilise its potential to inoculate people."We have a total target of covering 1.12 crore population above 45 years and we have been able to cover only 49 percent of this group with at least one dose. So far, we have received 85,47,930 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine (after reducing the doses given to AFMS and Mahe) and are expected to receive another 5.28 lakh doses as per the fortnight schedule shared by the Ministry," Vijayan said in his letter to PM Modi, according to ANI.He said that one-half of the state’s population who are above the age of 45 are yet to be given at least one dose. "Only 22 per cent of those who received the first dose have received the second dose so far. Similarly, in the case of the 18-44 years group, we have a total of 1.5 crore beneficiaries," he said.Vijayan said that based on this target and the state's action plan, it had placed a purchase order for 1 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccine for the month of May, but have received only 884,000. "Because of this supply, we have been forced not to open vaccination for all. Instead, we have made priority groups and are now giving the vaccine to those with comorbidities and certain frontline categories only," he added.The Kerala chief minister said that so far, 57,666 doses have been administered in this category. "As you are aware, we were doing 2.5 lakhs vaccination per day when the vaccine supply was regular. Now due to the limited supply, we are not able to fully utilise the potential of our system," he further said.Vijayan claimed that the pace of coverage has drastically come down, adding that people are also apprehensive of the slow pace of vaccination drive. "Hence, I would request you to kindly take measures for a continuous supply of vaccines, so that the balance vaccines can be supplied matching with the pace of Kerala's vaccination potential," he said.Kerala on Thursday recorded 24,166 Covid-19 cases, taking the state’s caseload to 24,18,529 and its death toll to 8063 after 181 people succumbed to the viral disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vijayan-writes-to-pm-modi-urges-him-for-continuous-supply-of-covid-19-vaccines-101622207575457.html
28-05-2021||India||After Mamata skips Yaas review meet with PM Modi, BJP’s Nadda hits out at ‘petty politics’||Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) national president Jagat Prakash Nadda on Friday criticised Mamata Banerjee after the West Bengal chief minister gave a miss to a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi to review the impact of Cyclone Yaas, which hit her state and the neighbouring Odisha earlier this week. Nadda said "Mamata ji should also set aside her ego" and pointed out that the Prime Minister has been in touch with chief ministers of states, irrespective of party affiliations, to help the people impacted by Yaas, which killed at least five people and left a trail of destruction in Odisha, Bengal and Jharkhand.“When Hon PM Shri @narendramodi stands strong with the citizens of West Bengal in wake of cyclone Yaas, Mamata ji should also set aside her ego for the welfare of people. Her absence from the PM’s meeting is murder of constitutional ethos & the culture of cooperative federalism,” Nadda said in a post on Twitter.“PM @narendramodi ji holds the principle of Cooperative federalism very sacred & has been actively working with all CMs irrespective of party to give relief to the people. Unsurprisingly @MamataOfficial's tactics & petty politics has once again came to haunt the people of Bengal,” he also tweeted.When Hon PM Shri @narendramodi stands strong with the citizens of West Bengal in wake of cyclone Yaas, Mamata ji should also set aside her ego for the welfare of people. Her absence from the PM’s meeting is murder of constitutional ethos & the culture of cooperative federalism.News agency ANI reported citing people familiar with the developments that the West Bengal chief minister and the state’s chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay were late to the meeting by almost half an hour. ANI cited the people mentioned above that she handed over the reports related to the impact of Cyclone Yaas and left saying that she has other meetings lined up.On her part, Mamata Banerjee said she could not attend the review meeting with Prime Minister Modi as she was scheduled to meet with officials in another area of the state. “The Prime Minister called a meeting. We did not know that I had a meeting scheduled in Digha. I handed him the report asking for ₹20,000 crore for Digha development and ₹10,000 crore for Sundarban development. I told him that state government officials had a meeting with me so I took his permission and left,” Mamata Banerjee said, according to news agency ANI.“After having review meetings in Hingalganj & Sagar, I met the Hon’ble PM in Kalaikunda & apprised him regarding the post-cyclone situation in WB. The disaster report has been handed over for his perusal. I’ve proceeded now to review the relief & restoration work at Digha,” Mamata also tweeted.Also read | ‘Took his permission’: Mamata on skipping Yaas review meeting with PM ModiMamata Banerjee said she submitted a report to PM Modi on the damages caused by Cyclone Yaas in the state and sought a ₹20,000-crore package for redevelopment of the worst-affected areas. "We have sought a package of ₹10,000 crore each for the redevelopment of Digha and the Sunderbans... It could well be that we might not get anything," she said following an administrative meeting held in the tourist town of Digha.Also watch | Cyclone Yaas: PM Modi reviews damages of storm-hit areas in OdishaModi also flew down to Odisha to review the post-cyclone situation before going to West Bengal, where the storm wreaked havoc in the coastal districts. A release issued by the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said PM Modi announced a financial assistance of ₹1,000 crore for immediate relief activities. “ ₹500 crore would be immediately given to Odisha. Another ₹500 crore has been announced for West Bengal and Jharkhand, which will be released on the basis of the damage. The Union Government will deploy an inter-ministerial team to visit the states to assess the extent of damage, based on which further assistance will be given," the statement said.Also read | Cyclone Yaas: PM Modi announces ₹500 cr package for OdishaThe PM also announced ₹200,000 as ex-gratia for those who lost a family member and ₹50,000 for those seriously injured in the cyclone, the release said.Cyclone 'Yaas' rampaged through parts of India's eastern coast on Wednesday, forcing millions of people to be evacuated to safe shelters in West Bengal, Odisha and Jharkhand. Heavy rainfall was reported at several places under the impact of the cyclone in all the three states on Thursday. More rains are expected to hit these states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-mamata-skips-yaas-review-meet-with-pm-modi-nadda-hits-out-at-petty-politics-101622208056221.html
28-05-2021||India||Covid-19: Telangana begins vaccination for high risk groups||The Telangana government on Friday launched mass Covid-19 vaccination for high risk groups, including accredited journalists, across the state.Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar who visited a few vaccination centres here told reporters that more than 1.4 lakh people in the districts will be administered vaccine over the next three days during the special drive.Similarly 32 centres have been set up in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) area, which will operate for seven days, where around 30,000 people will be vaccinated daily, he said.He said the vaccination centres will start work from 8 AM daily and street vendors and those working in pesticide shops and other kirana shops identified by officials and who are given coupons, will be given the shots as no walk-ins are allowed.A senior official earlier said that about 7.75 lakh people are in the high risk groups and vaccination will be done for them during the special drive from May 28 to 30.Those who are in regularly on the move and in contact with people such as vegetable and fruit vendors, cab and auto drivers and barbers, among others, fall into the category of high risk groups.An official release issued by the state government on Friday said nearly 44 lakh people have received their first dose of Covid-19 vaccination, while over 13 lakh got the second jab also.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-telangana-begins-vaccination-for-high-risk-groups-101622208081339.html
28-05-2021||India||Covaxin manufacturing to vaccination takes 4 months, says Bharat Biotech||Manufacturing to supply of Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin involves four months of lag time depending on technology and regulatory approvals, Bharat Biotech said on Friday. "The timeline for manufacturing, testing and release for a batch of Covaxin is approximately 120 days, depending on the technology framework and regulatory guidelines to be met. Thus, production batches of Covaxin that were initiated during March this year will be ready for supply only during the month of June," the vaccine maker said in a press release. Bharat Biotech's clarification comes at a time when the country is facing a shortage of Covid-19 vaccines, leading to disruptions in the nationwide inoculation programme. "There is a four-month lag time forCovaxinto translate into actual vaccination," it said. The manufacturing, testing, release and distribution of vaccines are complex and multi-factorial processes with hundreds of steps, requiring a diverse pool of human resources, the firm said. For vaccines to result in actual vaccination of people, highly coordinated efforts are required from international supply chains, manufacturers, regulators and State and Central government agencies, it said. Production scale-up of vaccines is a step-by-step process, involving several regulatory SOPs of GMP (Standard Operating Procedures of Good Manufacturing Practices), Bharat Biotech said. Based on Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) guidelines, all vaccines supplied in India are mandated by law to be submitted for testing and release to the Central Drugs Laboratory, Government of India. All batches of vaccines supplied to State and Central Governments are based on the allocation framework received from the Centre, the company said. The timeline forvaccine supplies to reach the depots of the State and Central Governments from Bharat Biotechs facilities is around two days. The vaccines received at these depots have to be further distributed by the State Governments to various districts within their respective states. This requires an additional number of days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covaxin-manufacturing-to-vaccination-takes-4-months-says-bharat-biotech-101622205484720.html
28-05-2021||India||'Respond to market changes': PETA India tells Amul produce vegan milk||People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) India has asked Amul to make a decision to switch to producing vegan milk.In a letter to Amul Managing Director R S Sodhi, PETA said the dairy cooperative society should get benefitted from the booming vegan food and milk market.“We would again like to encourage Amul to benefit from the booming vegan food and milk market, instead of wasting resources trying to fight the demand for plant-based products that is only growing. Other companies are responding to market changes, and Amul can too,” PETA India said.Sodhi, while replying to a tweet by Ashwini Mahajan, national co-convener of Swadeshi Jagran Manch, said, “Don't you know dairy farmers are mostly landless. Your designs may kill their only source of livelihood. Mind it milk is in our faith, our traditions, our taste, our food habits an easy and always available source of nutrition."Amul is an Indian dairy cooperative society managed by the Gujarat Co-operative Milk Marketing Federation Ltd.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/respond-to-market-changes-peta-india-tells-amul-produce-vegan-milk-101622205016901.html
28-05-2021||India||Kerala HC declines to stay new draft regulation in Lakshadweep||The Kerala high court on Friday declined to stay the draft Lakshadweep Development Authority Regulation and sent notices to the Centre and the Union Territory administration in response to Congress leader KP Noushad Ali’s plea against the regulation, which has triggered protests. Ali has pleaded the regulation will destroy the unique culture and tradition of the Arabian Sea archipelago. He has said it gives sweeping, arbitrary, and unchecked powers to Lakshadweep’s administration and will even affect possession and retention of property by islanders.Also Read | Understanding the discontent in Lakshadweep: An explainerAli’s lawyer sought an interim stay. But a division bench of Justices K Vinod Chandran and M R Anitha observed this was a policy matter and all parties should get a chance to put forth their views before issuing the notices. The court, which has jurisdiction over Lakshadweep, posted the hearing in the matter after two weeks.Lakshadweep has been in the eye of a political storm after the Union Territory’s new administrator, Praful Khoda Patel, issued a set of orders and brought in new rules and regulations. Congress and Communist Party of India-Marxist have written to the President urging him to recall the administrator. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar and Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin have also backed the call.Local residents have been protesting over new norms for the last three months. Critics see new regulations as a threat to the cultural identity of the people of Lakshadweep, where close to 95% population is Muslim and the ecology is sensitive.Askar Ali, Lakshadweep’s collector, has defended new rules and said people with vested interests were spreading misinformation with ulterior motives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-hc-declines-to-stay-new-draft-regulation-in-lakshadweep-101622204902206.html
28-05-2021||India||Covid-induced recruiting slump likely to affect skills, employability||Lack of on-site internship experiences, prolonged closure of educational institutes restricting access to the lab and practical work, switch to digital mode of learning and Covid-induced recruiting slump are likely to affect the skills and employability of students currently studying professional courses.Education institutions have mostly been shut for regular classes since March last year. Last November, students were allowed to return to the campuses in a staggered manner only for research, practical, and laboratory work in accordance with Covid-19 guidelines laid down by University Grants Commission (UGC). However, even before the work could have resumed on the campuses, the second wave of Covid-19 hit the country, and education institutions were again closed for students in April.In the last 14 months, while colleges and universities have switched to the online mode for classes and exams, they were hard-pressed to find a digital alternative for research work, hands-on skill training and laboratory work, and compulsory internship components of some courses. Several university officials feared that the lack of industry experience and expertise may affect the recruitment process in the coming years.Impact on internships and job opportunitiesThe pandemic situation did not allow thousands of students to join internships and on-field training, which are essential for them to polish their skills for future job opportunities. Many of them ended up joining online internships.Aparnendu Tripathi, a final-year student of civil engineering at Delhi Technical University (DTU), said, “Internships help us understand how workspaces function, observe the flow of work, deal with manpower and resources on the field. For civil and mechanical engineering students, particularly, missed being on the field. The online mode wasn’t helpful in acquiring those skills.”Also Read | No jobs, fear of third wave may keep migrants awayMohammad Usman Siddiqui, a final-year engineering student at Jamia Millia Islamia, said students are worried as the lack of offline internships may affect the recruitment process. “For mechanical and civil engineering, candidates need to be in the field and the lack of experience during internship also affects recruitment. Of the 88 students in my batch, only four students have been placed so far,” said Siddiqui, who has not been placed yet.Siddiqui added the rise in “pool drive” recruitment was also affecting the number of students hired from a particular college or university.Explaining the meaning of the “pool drive” system, Hena Singh, the in-charge of Delhi University’s (DU) central placement cell, said, “Earlier, companies would register with the university and that would offer a level-playing field for all DU students from every college. Now, they are opting for consultancy firms or agencies that connect them to students which means employers can pick if they want to opt for campus colleges or off-campus colleges. Companies also do not have to agree to the base salary proposed by universities if they approach students via these agencies as compared to university placement cells.”Singh said the central placement cell had arranged for around 1,400 internships till May – fewer than previous years when the university arranged around 3,000-4,000. “The second wave of Covid meant several families and students were affected by it. Many wanted either paid internships or could not enrol for training because of their situation at home. This too added to the lack of industry experience,” she said.Officials at several universities said even as the number of placements and internship offers in the IT and digital sector has gone up, some sectors have been severely affected amid the pandemic in terms of job opportunities.Nisha Singh, placement officer with Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University or IP University, said, “The manufacturing sector and the core branches of engineering including mechanical and civil have been affected by the pandemic situation since there are no jobs available. Last year we also witnessed the same. We had started some drive in March and April for students pursuing these courses but then again the lockdown was imposed.”Also Read | At the United Nations, Delhi showcases its women powerSingh said that the journalism students at the University are getting internship opportunities only from online news portals or content management companies. “The jobs are less in comparison to the regular time,” she said.Blow to technical and skill-based learningMayank Kumar, a student of mechanical engineering at Netaji Subhas University of Technology (NSUT), said, “Most of our course is based on practicals and laboratory work. It’s been over 13-14 months that we could not resume work offline. Even as the university is conducting online practical classes, it feels we are completing the course for the sake of it. I have no idea how we will fill this gap.”Several other students pursuing courses that require extensive on-field experience also shared the same concern. Sanjh Sharma, a final year student of multimedia course at IP University, said, “Generally students pursue internships during summer and winter breaks or do individual projects such as filmmaking during this time. We could not get any such experience. We are in fact doing all our photography and videography assignments at home. Not all of us have high-end laptops and devices to practice editing. What will I do even if I get an internship?”Manasvini Yogi, OSD, Delhi School of Journalism, DU, said, “We could not give them field reporting assignments due to the pandemic. We had online assignments and workshops, but it cannot compensate for the practical experience,” she said.Also Read | Covid-19 and the disease of inequalityNot just technical courses, but field research has also been hit. Sonali Garg, 33, a post-doctoral researcher in the Department of Environmental Studies of Delhi University, said with the rise in Covid-19 cases across the country, researchers fear another “drought” of work. “My research work involves amphibians – mainly frogs, which are seasonal animals. We collect raw data from the field, come back to the lab and then do molecular research. Last year, we could neither visit the field nor the labs. This year, I took a health risk and travelled to a site to collect raw data. But it didn’t work out as planned. We had thought that work may resume this year but with the rising cases, it becomes uncertain. Since my research is funded by external agencies, I have a timeline and research targets to meet. That has gone for a toss due to Covid-19,” she said.Officials at some universities said that the Covid-19 pandemic prompted many students to choose higher education over jobs to brush up their skills and fill the gaps.Rihan Suri, placement officer at Jamia Millia Islamia, said, “Many students are opting for higher education to build on their skillset for two years or are changing their fields to sectors that are now hiring...Students haven’t been able to come to university regularly and practical knowledge for professional courses has taken a hit. This will affect the experience and quality of trained professionals in the coming years. This can be compensated when the situation is better as students are more into self-training now.”Meanwhile, DTU has used innovative methods to help students. Rajesh Rohilla, head of training and placement, said the varsity conducted in-house training for around 800 students involving faculty members and industry experts in addition to the online internships.“The industrial training component of students coincided with the first and second waves of Covid in the country. This left an impact on their training and skills. To address this, we organised the in-house training wherein students developed projects using simulation and available digital tools to gather as much experience as they can,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covidinduced-recruiting-slump-likely-to-affect-skills-employability-101622203522547.html
28-05-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccine shortage temporary problem, says CoWIN head RS Sharma||The head of the CoWIN platform RS Sharma said on Friday the vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for people between age 18-45 years will pick up the pace soon and that the shortage of doses is a temporary problem.Sharma, who is also the chairperson of the empowered committee on Covid-19 vaccination, said the problem with vaccination is occurring specifically for people belonging to that particular age group. “The system is inclusive. The fact that more than half of the population who are aged above 45 years are walk-in registrations who have gotten vaccinated. This is a temporary problem,” Sharma was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Delhi, Jharkhand and Punjab have said in the last two days that they had to stop their vaccination drives due to a shortage of doses. Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren on Thursday said that the state was facing an acute shortage of vaccines with doses for the 18-44 age group almost over. Delhi MLA Atishi said the Capital had to suspend the vaccination drive for the fourth day in a row for people aged between 18-45 years. Punjab expanded its vaccination priority list to include citizens employed in the hospitality sector, shopkeepers and their staff, industrial workers, street vendors, delivery boys, bus and cab drivers, conductors and members of local bodies as chief minister Amarinder Singh highlighted the state’s acute shortage of vaccines.The Union ministry of health and family welfare said on Friday that the states have at least 18.4 million vaccine doses and said that the Centre provided 224.6 million doses free of cost to the states. It also said that it will provide states and Union Territories with three lakh vaccine doses. Union minister Prakash Javadekar on Friday at least 1.08 billion people will be vaccinated against the coronavirus disease by December 2021. India has vaccinated 202.1 million people so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccine-shortage-temporary-problem-says-cowin-head-rs-sharma-101622202672515.html
28-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM announces ₹500 crore package for Odisha in aftermath of Cyclone Yaas and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Cyclone Yaas: PM Modi announces ₹500 cr package for OdishaPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday announced financial assistance worth ₹500 crore to Odisha in the aftermath of Cyclone Yaas. He said the Centre will deploy an inter-ministerial team to visit Odisha and West Bengal to assess the extent of damage, based on which further assistance will be granted. Read moreRemove GST from essential drugs used in fight against Covid-19: Priyanka GandhiCongress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday urged the Centre to remove Goods and Services Tax (GST) charged on all life-saving medicines and equipment used to treat the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), reiterating her party’s stand. Read more68% jump in Take Home Ration scheme beneficiaries since last year: DCPCRAround 91% of the beneficiaries of the Take Home Ration scheme of the Delhi government said they received ration this year as compared to 23% during the last lockdown, a survey has revealed. Read moreSyria's Bashar al-Assad wins a fourth term in a predictable landslideSyrian President Bashar Assad was re-elected in a landslide, officials said Thursday, ushering in a fourth seven-year term in the war-torn country following an election described as illegitimate and a sham by the West and his opposition. Read moreRupee gains for 3rd straight session; rises 15 paise to 72.45 against US dollarThe rupee strengthened for the third straight session on Friday and closed 15 paise higher at 72.45 (provisional) against the US dollar tracking positive domestic equities. Read moreAmitabh Bachchan buys property worth ₹31 crore, with six car parks: reportActor Amitabh Bachchan has reportedly purchased a property worth ₹31 crore. The actor bought the 5,184 sq ft property in Mumbai in December, but registered it only in April. Read more'He got job done in Australia': Panesar says India is 'more of Ravi Shastri's team than Virat Kohli's'One of the biggest reasons for Team India's recent successes has been the pairing of coach Ravi Shastri and captain Virat Kohli. The two have always appeared to be in sync over the years and both have created a winning mentality in the team. Read moreLittle girl gets a puppy as a birthday present, her reaction is priceless. WatchHave you ever pleaded with your parents to get you a puppy? And did you finally manage to convince them after promising to take care of it and clean up after it? If you know what that feels like, you’ll relate to this excited, little girl who just got a puppy as an early birthday present. Read more‘Kejriwal has insulted national flag’: Prahlad Patel alleges breach of Flag CodeUnion minister Prahlad Singh Patel has accused Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal of disrespecting the national flag and violating the Flag Code of India during his televised press briefings. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-modi-announces-package-for-odisha-in-aftermath-of-yaas-101622200841181.html
28-05-2021||India||PM Modi reviews Cyclone Yaas’ impact, announces ₹200,000 ex gratia to victims||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday announced an ex gratia of ₹200,000 to the next of kin of those who lost their lives during Cyclone Yaas and ₹50,000 to the seriously injured in its aftermath, according to news agency ANI. PM Modi also expressed his solidarity with all those who suffered due to the cyclone and deep sorrow to the families who have lost their relatives during the calamity, ANI added citing the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO).Prime Minister Modi undertook an aerial survey in parts of Odisha and West Bengal to review the situation in the wake of Cyclone Yaas, the PMO also said. Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan accompanied him during the survey. "Today PM Narendra Modi visited Odisha and West Bengal to review the situation arising out of Cyclone Yaas. He undertook an aerial survey of the cyclone-affected areas in Bhadrak and Baleswar districts of Odisha, and Purba Medinipur in West Bengal," the PMO added.WATCH| Cyclone Yaas: PM Modi reviews damages of storm-hit areas in Odisha, conducts aerial surveyPM Modi met chief ministers of West Bengal and Odisha as well. West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee met PM Modi in Kalaikunda and submitted a preliminary report on damages caused by the cyclone, news agency PTI reported citing an official. "After having review meetings in Hingalganj and Sagar, I met the Honourable PM in Kalaikunda and apprised him regarding the post-cyclone situation in West Bengal. The disaster report has been handed over for his perusal. I have proceeded now to review the relief and restoration work at Digha," Banerjee tweeted after the meeting.Earlier in the day, PM Modi held a review meeting with Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik and other officials of the state administrations to assess the impact of Cyclone Yaas.Cyclone Yaas made landfall on Wednesday morning near Dhamra port in Odisha, at 130-140kmph, gusting to 155kmph. The cyclone impacted East Medinipur, West Medinipur, Bankura, South 24 Parganas and Jhargram districts in West Bengal and Balasore, Bhadrak, Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapara, Jajpur, Keonjhar and Mayurbhanj in Odisha. At least two persons have died in Odisha, two in Jharkhand and one in Bengal due to Cyclone Yaas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-reviews-cyclone-yaas-impact-announces-rs-200-000-ex-gratia-to-victims-101622196091552.html
28-05-2021||India||PM lauds TRS MP for his initiative to increase green cover||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has lauded Rajya Sabha MP Joginapalli Santosh Kumar for his Green India Challenge. Started by the 44-year-old Telangana Rashtra Samithi MP, the intiative aims to encourage tree plantation to improve green cover in the state. In a letter to Santosh, as the MP is popularly known, the Prime Minister said it was the individual and collective responsibility of every citizen to leave behind a green footprint for posterity. “Endeavours like Green India Challenge, aimed at increasing the green cover through planting of saplings can succeed only through people’s participation,” Modi said in his letter that Santosh received on Friday. Santosh launched the Green India Challenge – with “Hara Hai Toh Bhara Hai” slogan, in July 2018 on social media, tagging people to plant a sapling, and then challenging three others to do the same to continue the chain. Also Read | PM Modi meets Odisha CM Patnaik, reviews post Cyclone Yaas damagesThe campaign went viral within no time, as politicians, officials, sports persons, celebrities from Telugu, Tamil, Malayalam, Kannada, and Hindi film industry took up the challenge and posted pictures on social media. “More than 130 million trees have been planted by people who responded to campaign till now,” Santosh said. The Prime Minister said Indians had always peacefully co-existed with nature. The inherent love and respect for nature has been an integral part of our heritage. “Our deep reverence for Mother Earth is reflected through such sayings as “Mata Bhoomi: Putroham Prithivyah:” (Earth is my mother and I am her son),” he said. He also appreciated the book titled “Vriksha Vedam,” brought out by Santosh as part of the Green India Challenge. He said the book would educate people about the holistic relationship between mankind and nature. Santosh said such words of encouragement will go a long way in taking the campaign further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-lauds-trs-mp-for-his-initiative-to-increase-green-cover-101622198352264.html
28-05-2021||India||DRDO's anti-Covid drug priced at ₹990/ sachet; Centre, states to get discounts||Defence Research and Development Organisation's (DRDO) anti-Covid-19 drug will be sold at ₹990 per sachet by Dr Reddy's Laboratories (DRL), officials said on Friday. The Hyderabad-based pharma company, however, will provide the medicine to Centre and state government at a discounted price.The first batch of DRDO's anti-Covid-19 drug was released on May 17 by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan, after the Drugs Controller General of India permitted the emergency use authorisation of 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2-DG), anti-viral drug as an adjunct therapy for moderate to severe coronavirus patients.In April last year when the pandemic broke out, scientists of Institute of Nuclear Medicine and Allied Sciences (INMAS), a lab of DRDO conducted laboratory experiments with the help of the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB), Hyderabad in collaboration with DRL and found that this molecule works effectively against the SARS-CoV-2 virus and inhibits viral growth.The 2-DG drug comes in powder form in the sachet, which is taken orally by dissolving it in water.It accumulates in the virus-infected cells and prevents virus growth by stopping viral synthesis and energy production. Its selective accumulation in virally infected cells makes this drug unique.The drug reportedly reduces a patient's average recovery time by two and a half days and oxygen demand by upto 40 per cent, the Union Health Ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drdos-anti-covid-drug-priced-at-rs-990-sachet-centre-states-to-get-discounts-101622197665666.html
28-05-2021||India||Remove GST from essential drugs, equipment used in fight against Covid-19: Priyanka Gandhi urges Centre||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday urged the Centre to remove Goods and Services Tax (GST) charged on all life-saving medicines and equipment used to treat the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), reiterating her party’s stand. “In today’s GST Council meet, the government should remove GST from all life saving medicines and equipment that are being used to fight Covid,” Gandhi tweeted.Gandhi shared a list of 15 items on Twitter, including alcohol-based hand sanitisers, hand wash, soaps, cotton mask, PPE kits, disinfectants, thermometers, non-cotton face masks, medical-grade oxygen, vaccines, testing kits etc, stating that imposing GST on essential products like these during a global pandemic is “cruel and insensitive”. “Imposing GST on essential medical products like oxygen, ventilators, vaccines and medicines during a pandemic is cruel and insensitive,” Gandhi added.Her tweets come as Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman is chairing the virtual meeting of the GST Council on Friday. The Union ministry of finance tweeted that the minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur along with finance ministers and senior officials of states and Union territories (UT) will be attending the 43rd GST Council meeting. The council is meeting after a gap of eight months.Congress has been asking for a removal of GST levied on essential goods and medicines and joining its chorus are the finance ministers of states like Rajasthan, Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Jharkhand, Kerala and West Bengal. These states have formulated a joint strategy to press for a zero tax rate on Covid essentials, PTI reported on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/remove-gst-from-essential-drugs-equipment-used-in-fight-against-covid-19-priyanka-gandhi-urges-centre-101622194369080.html
28-05-2021||India||India to vaccinate all citizens against Covid-19 by December 2021, says Union minister Javadekar||Union minister Prakash Javadekar said on Friday all Indians will be vaccinated against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) by the end of this year as he criticised Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for saying that only 3 per cent of India’s population is inoculated.https://t.co/MWLBLLDcoF“The health ministry last week made it clear that within December the nation will produce 216 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines which means that at least 108 crore people will be able to get their jabs. So, Rahul Gandhi should understand that India will vaccinate all by December 2021,” Javadekar said during a press conference.Earlier in the day, Rahul Gandhi criticised the Centre during his press conference and claimed the current pace of its vaccination drive will further lead to multiple waves of Covid-19 and India will be able to vaccinate everyone only by May 2024.The Wayanad parliamentarian's press conference led to a war of words between the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) after he held Prime Minister Narendra Modi responsible for the damage caused during the second wave of coronavirus pandemic in the country. "He is responsible for the second wave of Covid-19," Gandhi said. The Congress leader also called PM Modi an 'event manager'.Javadekar also attacked Rahul Gandhi for using the word nautanki or drama in Hindi during his press conference. The Union minister said that using such terms while the nation faces a crisis is akin to insulting the efforts of the government to contain the pandemic.“India has administered 20 crore vaccines so far and ranks second in terms of jabs administered. If Rahul Gandhi is indeed worried about vaccination rates, he should concentrate on how Congress-governed states are conducting their respective vaccination drives. Those states have not been able to vaccinate people aged between 18-45 years even though quotas were assigned to them,” Javadekar added.Javadekar, who is the Union minister of environment, information and broadcasting, also took a jab at Gandhi over a document, which the BJP claims was made by Congress in a bid to defame PM Modi and attack the government over its handling of the second wave of Covid-19, an allegation which Congress has denied."Vaccines are being produced and by December 216 crore doses will be administered, but one thing is clear and one does not require proof that the 'toolkit' is created by you," Javadekar said.Javadekar also said that the Covid-19 vaccination programme is robust and will successfully vaccinate every citizen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-vaccinate-all-against-covid-19-by-december-2021-says-javadekar-101622194097804.html
28-05-2021||India||Sputnik V Covid vaccine to be rolled out at ₹1,195 in Apollo hospitals||Apollo Group of Hospitals has announced that it will start administering the Russian Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V, across its hospitals in India from the second week of June, at an estimated price of ₹1,195 per dose."We will be charging ₹995 for the vaccine and ₹200 would be administration charges," an official of the Apollo Group said.On Thursday, Apollo Hospitals said they will start administering Sputnik V from the second week of June.In a statement, Executive Vice-chairperson Shobana Kamineni of the Apollo Group of Hospitals said that the group has completed administering one million vaccine doses across 80 locations in India, and will prioritise frontline workers, high-risk population, and corporate employees.Giving details on ramping up their vaccination programme, Kamineni said, "In June, we will do a million every week and double that in July. We are on track to complete 20 million jabs by September this year."India is moving towards vaccine sufficiency as inoculations with the Russian vaccine Sputnik V began in the country earlier this month.As reported earlier, India and Russia are planning to manufacture around 35-40 million doses every month that will start from August or September.On May 24, the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) and Panacea Biotec, one of the leading pharmaceutical producers in India, had launched the production of the Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine.Sputnik V got approval from the Subject expert committee (SEC) for Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA), making it the third COVID-19 vaccine to get clearance in India.India has become the 60th country to authorise the use of the Russian vaccine against coronavirus. It is now approved in countries with a total population of 3 billion, or 40 percent of the world's population.Under the Centre's liberalised vaccination policy, the private sector hospitals have earned a crucial role as they can directly procure the doses from manufacturers and administer them to the eligible beneficiaries. The beneficiaries, however, need to register themselves for the jabs through the CoWin platform.Sputnik V was registered in India under emergency use authorization procedure on April 12 and vaccination against coronavirus with the Russian vaccine started on May 14.Earlier, while highlighting the Sputnik V progress, deputy chief of mission Roman Babushkin, told ANI, "Sputnik V is one of the vaccines which is included in the Indian mass vaccination drive and it speaks for itself. This company (Panacea Biotec) is one of the Indian partners which the Russian Direct Investment Fund and is developing a business partnership. The preliminary schedule is gradually is to reach 850 million doses in India per year. We know that there is interest from other business partners and even state governments, all these proposals we are studying very carefully."Talking about the status of the single-dose vaccine 'Sputnik lite', the Russian envoy had said promotion in India and distribution would be very helpful.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sputnik-v-covid-vaccine-to-be-rolled-out-at-rs-1-195-in-apollo-hospitals-101622193250511.html
28-05-2021||India||Puducherry's Covid-19 tally climbs to 101,900; 1,223 new cases added||Puducherry logged 1,223 new coronavirus cases during the last 24 hours taking the overall tally to 101,900, a senior official of the Department of Health and Family Welfare Services said on Friday.Twenty-one more people succumbed to the virus during the last 24 ending 10 AM Friday, Director of Health and Family Welfare Services S Mohan Kumar said.The Puducherry region accounted for 15 fatalities followed by Karaikal (5) and Yanam (1) as the toll rose to 1,476.Twelve of the 21 deceased had no comorbidities.The 1,223 new cases were identified at the end of the examination of 9,012 samples putting the test positivity rate at 13.5 per cent, he said.Mohan Kumar said the total number of Covid-19 cases in the Union Territory stood at 101,900.The number of active cases were 13,896 with 1,690 in hospitals and remaining 12,206 in home isolation.As many as 1,779 people were discharged from hospitals after recovery during the last 24 hours.He said 10.25 lakh samples were tested so far and of them 8.89 lakh were found to be negative.The total number of recoveries so far were 86,528.The Director said that fatality and recovery rates were 1.45 per cent and 84.91 per cent respectively.The Health department Director said that 34,496 healthcare workers and 21,451 frontline workers have been inoculated so far in the Union Territory.The Department has vaccinated so far 147,548 people coming under the category of either senior citizens (60 years and above) or those who are 45 years and above with comorbidities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/puducherrys-covid-19-tally-climbs-to-101-900-1-223-new-cases-added-101622193016549.html
28-05-2021||India||International passengers flights to remain suspended till June 30: DGCA||The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said on Friday international passengers flights will remain suspended till June 30 but the restriction will not apply to international all-cargo operations and flights specifically approved by the aviation regulator. The ban has been in place since March last year.The suspension of scheduled international passenger flights was last extended till May 31 amid the coronavirus pandemic. However, special international flights have been operating under the Centre’s Vande Bharat Mission since May 2020 and under bilateral "air bubble" arrangements with selected countries since July last year.All scheduled international flights were restricted on March 23 last year in wake of the coronavirus pandemic and continue to be banned. However, various international flights were operationalised under bilateral air bubble agreements that India signed with several nations for the unhindered movement of passengers.India has formed air bubble pacts with 27 countries including the US, the UK, the UAE, Kenya, Bhutan and France. Under an air bubble pact between two countries, special international flights can be operated by their airlines between their territories.Given the rise in Covid-19 cases during the second wave of the pandemic, several countries have banned flights from India under the air bubble pact till the situation improves.India's Covid-19 tally on Friday reached over 27.5 million with 186,364 fresh cases and 3660, fatalities over 24 hours. The caseload has now gone up to 27,555,457 and the death toll stands at 318,895, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/international-passengers-flights-to-remain-suspended-till-june-30-says-dgca-101622193404444.html
28-05-2021||India||Form a Covid panel to beat the virus: Rahul Gandhi to PM Modi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday asked Narendra Modi to form a panel that is mandated to meet daily to interact with top experts to devise strategies for India’s battle against Covid even as he blamed the Prime Minister for the second wave of the pandemic.At a virtual press conference on Covid, Gandhi asked the government to stop the blame game and procure vaccines from wherever it can. He pointed out the US has vaccinated 50% of its population and even countries such as Brazil are ahead of India. “At this rate, we can vaccinate our entire population only by 2024.”Gandhi sought the setting up of the panel, saying the strategy so far has been completely wrong. “The RSS [Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh]-BJP [Bharatiya Janata Party] do not allow the PM [Prime Minister] to get any information. He should form a panel that would meet daily and talk to experts to make the strategy.” He asked Modi to involve others as well.Also Read | Rahul Gandhi seeks withdrawal of sweeping Lakshadweep regulationsGandhi blamed the Centre for having kept the door wide open for the virus to circulate and added various stakeholders need to be on the same page to keep it out. “If [Chhattisgarh chief minister] Bhupesh Baghel, [his West Bengal counterpart] Mamata Banerjee and Modi are on the same page, coronavirus can be kept out,” he said. “Many people and I had been giving non-stop warnings against Covid. But the PM declared victory, saying Covid has been defeated.”Gandhi said the problem is that the government and the PM did not even understand that Covid-19 is an evolving disease. “The more you give time and space to the virus, the more dangerous it becomes,” he said. He emphasised that only the vaccine is a permanent solution while lockdown, masks, and social distancing are temporary solutions. “I told the PM, if you do not implement vaccine strategy properly, Covid waves will continue to come. There will be fourth, fifth, sixth waves too,” he said.There was no immediate response from the government or the BJP to Gandhi’s comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/form-a-covid-panel-to-beat-the-virus-rahul-gandhi-to-pm-modi-101622192951743.html
28-05-2021||India||Zydus introduces scratch code in critical drug packs to fight counterfeit menace||Drug firm Zydus Cadila on Friday said it has introduced a new feature in the packaging of its critical drugs to help patients ensure that the product is not fake or counterfeited.To start with, technology is being implemented in the company's products Remdac (Remdesivir) and Virafin Inj (Pegylated Interpheron Alpha 2b) and will be seen on the product packs in the third week of June, the drug firm said in a statement.The feature will also be extended to other products of the company, it added.The company said it has incorporated a new IT-enabled scratch code which shall be printed under a scratchable surface.The patients can check to see if the product purchased by them is genuine or not by scratching the surface and verifying the code through the app or the website, it added."The problem of counterfeit drugs undermines the painstaking efforts that are put in to ensure that the end user or patients receive a product that is safe and manufactured with the highest standards of quality excellence."Counterfeit drugs can be harmful as they may not have the desired outcome and could also be life threatening in some cases," Cadila Healthcare Managing Director Sharvil Patel noted.To curb this menace, the company has looked at a user-friendly solution which can reassure the patient that the product is genuine and safe, he added.Cadila Healthcare is the listed entity of Ahmedabad-based Zydus Cadila group which employs nearly 25,000 people worldwide, including 1,400 scientists in R&D.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zydus-introduces-scratch-code-in-critical-drug-packs-to-fight-counterfeit-menace-101622191962512.html
28-05-2021||India||Yoga has helped many countries fight Covid-19: Minister Naik||Union AYUSH Minister Shripad Naik on Friday said public awareness on yoga created by the Modi government at the global level has helped several countries fight back the Covid-19 pandemic.The minister was addressing a group of people at the launch of a campaign to distribute 'Ayush 64' medicine, used for treating Covid-19, here.Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government began celebrating International Yoga Day (June 21) seven years back due to which there was awareness about yoga, Naik said at the event where Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant was also present.Now, many countries are recognising that they could fight Covid-19 through yoga because its benefits were propagated and explained to them, the Union minister said.He hailed the PM as a visionary leader who spread across the world knowledge about the ancient practice focusing on physical, mental and spiritual aspects of human life.Speaking on the occasion, Sawant said the state government has been taking the help of AYUSH (Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy) doctors in its Covid-19 management programme.He said AYUSH clinics have been established in state- run health centres which provide guidance to people on dealing with post-coronavirus complications.Sawant, an Ayurveda practitioner, said 'Ayush 64' medicine has been approved by various authorities of the Union government.The Ayurvedic formulation would be made available through health centres as a measure against the Covid-19 spread, the Chief Minister added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yoga-has-helped-many-countries-fight-covid-19-minister-naik-101622190673620.html
28-05-2021||India||Red alert for east UP, Bihar, Bengal and Sikkim; heavy rains predicted||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Friday issued a red alert for eastern Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal and Sikkim as it said the remnant of Cyclone Yaas has weakened into a well-marked low-pressure area over Bihar and adjoining east UP. The cyclone made landfall in Odisha on Wednesday morning and pounded West Bengal and Jharkhand bring heavy rains.The weather bureau said will witness heavy rains, thunderstorm, lightning and strong surface winds and forecast the same for West Bengal and Sikkim. Bihar will witness heavy rains, thunderstorm, lightning, it said. “Depression (Remnant of Very Severe Cyclonic Storm “YAAS”) over Bihar & adjoining Jharkhand has weakened into a well-marked low pressure area lay over Bihar adjoining East UP at 0530 hrs IST of today the 28th May 2021,” IMD tweeted in the morning.Also watch | Indian Navy continues relief ops in storm-hit areas of OdishaPrime Minister Narendra Modi Friday reviewed the situation and damages caused by Cyclone Yaas in Odisha and held a meeting in Bhubaneswar as the state government demanded long term solutions to mitigate problems of repeated cyclones and provision of disaster resilient power systems. Odisha’s special relief commissioner (SRC) PK Jena told reporters after the meeting that the state government also sought no immediate funds to manage the expenditure incurred in disaster management.The Prime Minister left for aerial survey to the worst cyclone affected areas of Balasore and Bdahrak in Odisha, on his way to West Bengal, after the review meeting, attended by Odisha Governor Ganeshi Lal, chief minister Naveen Patnaik, two ministers Dharmendra Pradhan and Pratap Sarangi and senior officials.Also read | As Cyclone Yaas raged, pregnant woman in Odisha carried on charpoy to hospitalMeanwhile, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee also conducted an aerial survey of cyclone-hit areas in North 24 Parganas and took stock of the situation in Hingalganj, Hasnabad, Sandeshkhali, Pinakha and other areas of the district. "I have seen that most of the areas have been inundated. Houses and large tracts of agricultural fields are under water. A field survey will also be conducted," Banerjee said, according to news agency PTI.Several areas in Purba Medinipur, South and North 24 Parganas bore the brunt of Cyclone Yaas as many places in these districts were whiplashed by heavy rains. Banerjee is also scheduled to undertake an aerial survey in cyclone-hit areas of South 24 Parganas and the coastal town of Digha in Purba Medinipur.Cyclone Yaas, packing winds gusting to 145kmph pounded parts of India’s eastern coast on Wednesday, killing at least five people and leaving behind a trail of destruction in West Bengal, Odisha and Jharkhand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/red-alert-for-east-up-bihar-bengal-and-sikkim-heavy-rains-predicted-101622190027230.html
28-05-2021||India||Understanding the discontent in Lakshadweep: An explainer||Lakshadweep — an archipelago in Arabian Sea, known for its pristine beaches and natural surroundings — is in the eye of a political storm after the Union Territory’s new administrator, Praful Khoda Patel, issued a set of orders and brought in new rules and regulations, sparking a local backlash.The issue hit the national headlines after Congress and Communist Party of India-Marxist MPs wrote to the President urging him to recall the administrator. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar and Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin are among several national leaders who have demanded Patel’s recall.Though local residents have been protesting over new norms for last three months, it gained attention after they started receiving support from neighbouring states, especially from Kerala that shares linguistic and cultural ties with the group of islands. Besides politicians, many artists and cine actors also joined what has become a social media storm — “#save Lakshadweep campaign”.Critics see new regulations as a threat to cultural identity of inhabitants (the UT has close to 95% Muslim population with Scheduled Tribes status) and sensitive ecology of the region. The majority of Muslims belong to Shafi School of the Sunni Sect. According to 2011 census, the population of the archipelago is 64,473. Among 37-odd islands, only ten are inhabited. Malayalam is spoken in all the islands except Minicoy where people speak Mahl which is written in Divehi script and is spoken in Maldives also.Also Read | Lakshadweep: Tackle the brewing discontentHowever, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) insists that it is fundamentalist forces who are instigating trouble and many leaders from Kerala are supporting them due to their aversion towards saffron forces. They say the “reforms” — critics call it draconian orders — were introduced to develop the island and check growing drug and illicit arms trade in some of the uninhabited islands. The ruling party also defends the orders by citing the tourism potential of the area, and claim that once “developed”, it will even beat Maldives in terms of appeal.Island collector S Askar Ali who addressed newsmen in Kochi on Thursday said there was a concerted misinformation campaign against the administration by some vested interests and people of the archipelago will support the initiative to develop the area and bring more employment opportunities. In the backdrop of the raging controversy, the HT looks at some of the key issues agitating residents:Goonda Act The latest Goonda Act (prevention of anti-social activities regulation) meant to detain a person up to one year in jail without legal representation is a bone of contention. Residents allege that the new law is unnecessary and it is meant to detain people without valid reasons and it will create a fear psychosis. The archipelago has the lowest crime rate in the country. According to the National Crime Records Bureau (2019) report, the island had zero cases of major crimes such as rape, murder, kidnapping and dacoity. The number of violent incidents reported in the island was 16 in 2019 and 13 cases related to liquor and drug-related cases.Since the island has a negligible crime rate, it is natural the new act will raise suspicion. “The act is quite unwarranted and uncalled for. How can you impose such a draconian law on peace-loving people? Such a law will silence even some of the popular protests and instil fear in the minds of people. It is intended to scare people,” said Kavaratti panchayat president Abdul Khadar. But the collector says crime rate is going up steadily and some young residents are attracted to thriving drug trade. He cited seizure of ₹3,000 crore worth hasish as an instance of rising organised crime.Lakashadweep Development Authority RegulationLocals allege that this regulation will give sweeping powers to the administrator to take over land forcefully, relocate people and proposes harsh punishment to those who oppose it. They fear it will impinge their right to possess and retain their property. The new law also empowers the administration to pick up any land for construction activities, mining and other operations defined under development activities, critics allege.Also Read | Collector says new rules meant to ‘develop tourism’ in LakshadweepThey also add that the regulation will impede the livelihood of traditional fishermen and claimed that two weeks back, fishermen sheds on coastline were demolished, on the ground that they violated coastal laws and other provisions. Fishing is one of the main revenue earners of the archipelago. “These shed were built under the exemption provided by earlier administrators. We were not given even warning about the demolition,” said a traditional fisherman Abdulla Koya. But the collector maintained that only illegal encroachments were demolished.Two child norm and bar on local body electionThe draft Lakshadweep Panchayat Regulation Act 2021 says that if a resident has more than two children, he can’t contest in local body elections. Islanders say it will rob many of their right to contest in elections. It also says some of the existing members will also come under the purview of the act.“Among the rural populace, birth rate is quite high even in the mainland. It is a ploy to restrict numbers of island population. Such draconian laws won’t serve any purpose,” said KK Ashraf, a resident of Minicoy, the second biggest island after Andrott. The collector said the rule change was being proposed to provide incentive for family planning.Surge in Covid-19 cases Not a single case of Covid-19 was reported from the island till December 2020. Strict surveillance and quarantine facilities at Kochi were main reasons for it. But now test positivity rate is more than 10% in the island. Locals say changes in quarantine policy and relaxation of travel norms resulted in the surge in cases, and are worried because the island doesn’t have a medical college or super specialty hospital. Usually, in an emergency situation, the island administration airlifts patients to Kochi or Kozhikode but since cases are high in Kerala also, they have limited choice. Local leaders squarely blame the new administration for relaxing norms. But the collector says there were 26 medical evacuations and death rate is still very low in the island.Ban on slaughter without certificateThe administration has proposed a new bill, Lakshadweep Animal Preservation Act, which says all animals for slaughter should be certified by a competent authority and it should be culled at places specified for it. Slaughtering animals without a certificate will be an offence punishable with one-year jail and a fine of ₹10,000 or both. Besides this, beef has been taken out of the menu of mid-day meal scheme for students.Also Read | Rahul Gandhi seeks withdrawal of sweeping Lakshadweep regulationsResidents say beef and fish were there on the menu since the midday meal scheme started in schools more than a decade ago. But those who support the new regulation say usually non-vegetarian items, other than eggs, don’t figure in the menu of midday meal scheme. However, fish and chicken still remain on the menu.The issue has assumed a strong religious-political flavour given the predominantly Muslim population of the islands, and the fact that beef is a part of everyday eating habits. Critics see the regulation as an attempt by the BJP to impose its political and ideological worldview on a culturally distinct region.Plan to allow liquorExcept Bangaram island, which houses a big resort, liquor is not allowed anywhere on the island. In the resort also, it is only allowed to foreign tourists. But the administration is now planning liquor permits in three more islands, in order to promote tourism. Islanders say free flow of liquor will induce local people also and it will affect their culture. But people who support the move say in many areas people are brewing local liquor freely and there was no harm in licensing it.Change in SOP in emergency situationSince the island doesn’t have a medical college or super specialty hospitals, usually serious patients are airlifted to either Kochi or Kozhikode. Usually the chief medical officer of the island recommends such airlifts. Two choppers are used for this. But this standard operating procedure has been changed by the administration. Now a four-member committee will go through air lifting requests and take a decision. It also says uncomplicated cases can be sent by ships. Usually ships cover 450-odd kms in 14-18 hours while choppers take 30 minutes. Local residents say changes in SOP will put lives of serious patients in danger.Termination of contract employeesMany people were working in various departments under the Union government for years together on contract basis. Locals allege that a majority of contract employees were terminated. And many of the existing employees were transferred, with new norms having been introduced to check their performance. People living with their families said new norms were a bolt from the blue and they were dislocated.With a range of political, policy and administrative measures, Lakshadweep’s new administrator has sought to redefine the make up of the Union Territory. But as the response of local communities, local political stakeholders, neighbouring states and opposition parties show, there will be resistance. How the Centre navigates these tensions will be a real test.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/understanding-the-discontent-in-lakshadweep-an-explainer-101622189291589.html
28-05-2021||India||Delhi to start unlocking from Monday; factories, construction sites will reopen||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said there will be gradual unlocking in the Capital starting from May 31 as the Covid-19 situation is coming under control. But Delhi will take one step at a time and will not unlock all activities as there has to be a balance between containment and the resumption of economic activities, the chief minister said. Only construction activities and factories will be reopened from Monday keeping the interest of the daily wagers in mind. Everything else will remain shut. A detailed guideline will be issued, the CM said, urging people to not come out of their houses unless absolutely necessary."The number of Covid-19 cases in Delhi is steadily coming down and the credit goes to the 2 crore people of Delhi that the second wave of the pandemic has been brought under control in a month. In the last 24 hours, around 1,100 new cases have been recorded and the positivity rate has come down to 1.5 per cent. Beds, including ICU beds, oxygen beds are also available in the city now," Kejriwal said.Also Watch | Covid crisis: Delhi CM Kejriwal charts out unlocking process, gives a warningAlso Read: Tough but crucial lockdown decision enabled Delhi to tame deadliest waveIn a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority, chaired by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, it has been decided that the unlocking process of the Capital will begin as the ongoing lockdown continues till 5am, May 31. "The Covid-19 situation has been brought under control after much effort. The battle is still not won. The gains of the one-month lockdown should not be squandered away. So experts favour a phase-wise unlocking," Kejriwal said.Migrants from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar residing in Delhi are mostly employed at factories and construction sites, Kejriwal said explaining why the decision to open these two sectors has been taken.On further unlocking, Kejriwal said the decision will be taken every week based on public and expert opinion but only if the situation remains stable and cases do not go up again. "Nobody likes lockdown. We are not in favour of lockdown. But if Covid cases start to rise once again, then the unlocking process will have to be stopped," the chief minister said.From 10pm, April 19, Delhi went under a complete lockdown, which got extended by a week till May 31. In his last address where Kejriwal announced the extension of the lockdown till May 31, he had said that if cases do not increase, the unlocking process will be initiated.On April 20, Delhi recorded 28,395 Covid infections and the positivity rate on April 22 reached 36 per cent. The one-month lockdown, which only allowed essential services to function, the situation bettered as the daily case tally has now fallen below 2,000. On Thursdat, Delhi recorded 1,072 new cases and the lowest daily fatality since April 15 with 117 fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kejriwal-says-time-has-come-for-gradual-unlocking-as-covid-cases-under-control-101622188280944.html
28-05-2021||India||Over 224.6 million Covid vaccine doses provided to states, UTs so far: Centre||The Union health ministry said on Friday that more than 224.6 million doses of the vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) have been provided to states and Union Territories (UTs) so far free of cost and through direct state procurement. It said 18,492,677 doses are still available with states and UTs to inoculate their citizens.“As part of the nationwide vaccination drive, Government of India (GoI) has been supporting states and UTs by providing them vaccines free of cost. In addition, It has also been facilitating direct procurement of vaccines by states and UTs,” the health ministry said in a statement adding 320,000 doses are in the pipeline and states and UTs will receive them in the next three days.India has so far inoculated 205,720,660 people against Covid-19 of which 27,25,111 received the first dose and 1,94,588 were inoculated with both the doses. On May 26, India crossed 200 million vaccinations in 130 days, the second country after the United States to achieve this figure, the ministry said.Also Read| India's daily Covid-19 cases fall to 186,364; death toll reaches 318,895The health ministry’s statement on Friday comes at a time when a majority of states have flagged a severe shortage of vaccine doses because of which inoculation for those between the ages of 18-44 years is currently no hold. States have also floated tenders to procure vaccines from international vaccine manufacturers on their own, but haven’t seen any success.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Wednesday that doses for all young people in the national capital were exhausted and Covaxin doses meant for senior citizens have also run out of supplies. Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said on Thursday the supplies made to the state are not at par with the actual demand and it is becoming a ‘hand to mouth’ situation every day. Rajasthan has also claimed that the Centre is not providing sufficient doses and urged the latter to float a global tender to make doses available for all states. The Congress-led government in the state warned that it will approach the Supreme Court if the Centre fails to do so.Also Read| Covid-19 vaccine: What states claim about crunch in supplyThe Centre and states have also engaged in a squabble over the wastage of vaccine doses. The Union health ministry said on Wednesday that five states—Jharkhand (37.3%), Chhattisgarh (30.2%), Madhya Pradesh (10.7%), Tamil Nadu (15.5%), Jammu and Kashmir (10.8%)—were reporting vaccine wastage much higher than the national average of 6.3%.Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh were the first states who immediately responded to the Centre’s claim by saying that its data is incorrect and their vaccine wastage was well below the national average. “As per total vaccine doses availability with Govt in Jharkhand till today, the current Vaccine Wastage proportion is only 4.65%,” the office of Jharkhand’s chief minister tweeted on Wednesday.Also Read| Centre gets rebuttals from Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh on vaccine wastage dataThe Chhattisgarh government, meanwhile, said there was a delay from vaccination centres in providing data which the central government was calling vaccine wastage.On Friday, Madhya Pradesh also weighed in and said only 1.3% wastage of doses has been reported in the state so far against the Centre’s claim of 10.7%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-224-6-million-covid-vaccine-doses-provided-to-states-uts-so-far-centre-101622187052088.html
28-05-2021||India||Neither PM Modi nor Centre understood Covid-19 pandemic: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday sharpened his attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the central government over the second wave of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic in India by saying that neither Modi nor the government has been able to understand the viral disease, which has claimed over 300,000 lives so far.Rahul Gandhi has been the most vocal critic of the Centre’s response towards the coronavirus pandemic and has censured it on several fronts--vaccination, under-reporting of deaths, oxygen supplies and the construction of the Central Vista Project.Addressing a virtual press conference on Friday, Gandhi said, “I, along with several other people warned the Centre over the Covid-19 pandemic multiple times. The Centre made fun of us. The Prime Minister declared victory against Covid-19. The problem here is neither the Prime Minister nor the Centre has understood the viral disease till now.”Also Read| ‘Government does not seem to care about vaccination’, tweets Rahul GandhiGandhi said that Covid-19 is not just a disease but is an evolving one that will become fatal if more time and space is given to it. Pointing out that the viral disease attacks the country’s poor population, those with co-morbidities, diabetes, heart disease, obesity, the Congress leader offered ways to combat it.“There are three to four ways to stop Covid-19. Of these, the permanent solution is vaccination. Lockdown is a weapon but people suffer and hence it is a temporary solution. Social distancing and wearing of masks are also temporary solutions against Covid-19,” he added.Gandhi once again targeted the Centre over its vaccine strategy and the decision to export doses to other countries by saying that only 3% of India’s population is vaccinated and the remaining 97% is still prone to Covid-19. He said if the vaccination rate continues at the present pace, the entire population will be only inoculated by 2024.Also Read| Over 224.6 million Covid vaccine doses provided to states, UTs so far: CentreHe also alleged that PM Modi’s nautanki (drama) is the reason behind the raging second wave of the pandemic in India due to which lakhs of people died. “The Centre is lying about the death rate due to the virus. This is not the time to lie. We have to understand the reality and the Centre has to show the reality if we want to combat Covid-19. This is about the country’s future and not a political matter. They (Centre) should understand that we (opposition) are not their enemies,” the Congress leader said during the briefing.After 3,660 people succumbed to Covid-19 on Friday, India’s death toll rose to 318,895 and the fatality rate stood 1.16%. In mid-April and early May, the daily deaths in the country went over 4000, the highest anywhere in the world. Meanwhile, 186,364 new Covid-19 cases were reported on Friday, the lowest in 44 days, taking the caseload to 27,555,457, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/neither-pm-modi-nor-centre-understood-covid-19-pandemic-rahul-gandhi-101622186412268.html
28-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Union minister claims Arvind Kejriwal insulted tricolour and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Arvind Kejriwal insulted Tricolour, claims culture minister Prahlad PatelUnion minister Prahlad Singh Patel has accused Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal of disrespecting the national flag and violating the Flag Code of India during his televised press briefings. Read MoreIndia backs calls for further studies into origin of Covid-19India on Friday backed calls for further investigations into the origin of Covid-19 and sought the cooperation of China and other parties for such studies, days after US President Joe Biden asked intelligence agencies to submit a fresh report on the issue. Read MoreCaribbean court stays immediate repatriation of Mehul Choksi to IndiaThe top court of record for the Organisation of Eastern Caribbean States has stayed immediate repatriation of fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi even as Indian investigators have pushed for it since he was captured in Dominica after going missing from Antigua & Barbuda. Read MoreICC announces WTC final playing conditions: India, New Zealand to share trophy if match ends in a draw or a tieThe ICC on Friday announced the playing conditions for India vs New Zealand World Test Championship final, which is set to be played next month at Southampton, starting from June 18th. Read MoreKRK says he will review Salman Khan's films even if he 'touches his feet', thanks Salim Khan for supportAfter promising never to review any of Salman Khan's films, actor and self-proclaimed film critic Kamaal Rashid Khan (KRK) has taken a different stance. Read MoreWill Smith shares new fitness clip, flaunts leaner torso: Pursuit of HappynessWill Smith has been applauded a lot for his acting skills. The actor, however, is also known for keeping things real and that is why he shared an unedited image of himself showing his body that carried him through the pandemic and made a lot of jaws hit the floor. Read MoreRolls-Royce Boat Tail, the most expensive car in the world, breaks coverWould anyone spend more than Rs.200 crore on a car just to get that luxurious car with a boot that resembles a boat tail? Even if it is stacked with some of the most expensive drinks and an independent set-up perfect for a romantic outing?Well, it is a Rolls-Royce, for crying out loud. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-union-minister-claims-arvind-kejriwal-insulted-tricolour-and-all-the-latest-news-101622185503114.html
28-05-2021||India||All 4 West Bengal leaders get bail in Narada sting operation case||The Calcutta high court on Friday gave interim bail to all four leaders in West Bengal, arrested in the Narada sting operation case. Ministers Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim, party MLA Madan Mitra and former mayor Sovan Chatterjee, who is an ex-TMC leader, are currently under house arrest as per the high court's order.Imposing conditions, a five-judge bench of the high court directed the four accused persons to furnish bail bonds of ₹2 lakh each.The five-judge bench comprises Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and justices I P Mukerji, Harish Tandon, Soumen Sen and Arijit Banerjee.All four are also prohibited from making any comment in public or in media with regard to the matter. They were also directed to meet the investigating officer through virtual mode as and when required.The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) arrested the four leaders on May 17 in connection with its probe into the Narada sting tape case.The case pertains to a controversy that erupted ahead of the 2016 assembly elections after Narada News portal uploaded a series of videos purportedly showing a number of high-profile TMC leaders receiving money in exchange for favours to a fictitious company.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-four-tmc-leaders-accused-in-narada-sting-operation-case-get-interim-bail-101622186444755.html
28-05-2021||India||NCB arrests Sushant Singh Rajput's former flatmate Siddharth Pithani from Hyderabad||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Friday arrested Siddharth Pithani from Hyderabad in its ongoing probe into Bollywood-drugs nexus, in connection with actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death.Pithani was Rajput's former flatmate and one of those who reportedly found the actor's body hanging from the ceiling fan on June 14 last year. Pithani had been questioned by the NCB last year in connection with the probe.NCB arrested Hemant Shah alias Maharaj from Goa in connection with Rajput's death on May 7. Shah had allegedly supplied drugs to Anuj Keshwani and Regal Mahakaal, two local suppliers, who were also being investigated for the actor's deathPithani's arrest comes just ahead of Rajput's first death anniversary.PTI reported that an NCB team, led by zonal director Sameer Wankhede, launched a search for Pithani and traced him to Hyderabad. Pithani was brought to Mumbai following his arrest.NCB had filed a chargesheet on March 5, which named 33 accursed, including the late actor's girlfriend at the time of his death, Rhea Chakraborty. This chargesheet contained statements of 200 witnesses, and was complied after 6 months of investigation. The agency had also recorded statements of Bollywood actors Deepika Padukone, Rahul Preet Singh, and Sara Ali Khan during their probe.Pithani had been questioned by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on August 11 of last year, along with the late actor's business manager Shruti Modi, and his sister Meetu Singh. Both Pithani and Modi's statements were recorded under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) by the central probe agency.Pithani, who had been living with the late actor for about a year at the time of his death, had also been questioned by the Mumbai Police as part of its accidental death report (ADR) probe into Rajput's death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncb-arrests-sushant-singh-rajput-s-flatmate-siddharth-pithani-from-hyderabad-101622184808741.html
28-05-2021||India||India has administered over 205mn Covid vaccine doses till now||India has administered over 205 million coronavirus vaccine doses by Thursday, May 27. In what will be a boost to the country’s vaccination drive, Apollo Hospitals said they will start inoculating with Sputnik V, the Russia-made vaccine, from the second week of June.Meanwhile, by Thursday 7pm, 205,451,902 vaccine doses had been given in India. This includes 98,27,025 healthcare workers who have had their first dose and 6,747,730 who have got their second dose as well. As many as 15,339,068 frontline workers have had their first dose while 8,419,860 have got their second dose too.In the 45-60-year age group, 63,532,545 people have got their first dose and another 10,215,474 have had their second dose as well. In the 60+ category, 57,748,235 people have been administered their first dose while 18,469,925 have had their second dose as well.Also Read | India backs calls for further studies into origin of Covid-19In the newly added category of 18-45 year age group, 1,176,300 beneficiaries received their first dose of Covid vaccine on Thursday and cumulatively, 15,152,040 of this age group have been vaccinated across 37 states and Union Territories.As many as 2,658,218 vaccine doses were given by the evening. Of this, 2,481,196 beneficiaries were vaccinated with the first dose and 1,77,022 beneficiaries received their second dose as wellIndia recorded 186,364 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Friday, lowest in last 44 days, according to the Union health ministry’s dashboard. The death toll increased to 315,235 as 3,660 people succumbed to the viral disease over the past 24 hours. The overall nationwide Covid tally now stands at 27,555,457.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-over-205mn-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101622186111224.html
28-05-2021||India||Red Fort violence: Court to pronounce order on Delhi Police charge-sheet today||A Delhi court on Friday is likely to pronounce its order on the issue of cognisance on charge sheet filed in connection with the January 26 violence in the national capital, when thousands of farmers stormed into the Red Fort while protesting against the Centre’s three farm laws.In the charge sheet, the crime branch of the Delhi Police named 16 suspects as accused of the violence including Punjabi actor-turned-activist Deep Sidhu. The police termed the alleged storming of the fort by the protesters a “well-planned conspiracy.” According to the charge sheet, the accused came well equipped to “cause mayhem” and use the Red Fort premises as their new protest site.The police also attached hundreds of clips gathered from various photographers, CCTV cameras and those posted on social and media as evidence to show how protesters indulged in violence while carrying "weapons" like swords, rods, pharsi (saintie), wooden legs of a cots and spears.The charge sheet running into 3224 pages was submitted before a duty metropolitan magistrate in Tis Hazari court on Thursday.On January 26, farmers protesting against the three agriculture laws carried out a rally at demanding Centre to repeal the new reforms. However, the protests turned violent as some of the protesters carrying swords barged into the Mughal-era fort tried to hoist a religiously significant flag, Nishan Sahib, at the ramparts of the monument.Following the violence, two separate cases were registered by the Delhi Police. While one case involving serious charges such as rioting, attempt to murder and criminal conspiracy was registered on the police’s complaint, the second case was registered on the basis of a complaint filed by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), which is the custodian of the Mughal-era fort. Sidhu was arrested in both cases and is currently out on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/red-fort-violence-court-to-pronounce-order-on-delhi-police-charge-sheet-today-101622184891147.html
28-05-2021||India||Caribbean court stays immediate repatriation of Mehul Choksi to India||The top court of record for the Organisation of Eastern Caribbean States has stayed immediate repatriation of fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi even as Indian investigators have pushed for it since he was captured in Dominica after going missing from Antigua & Barbuda. The order came after Choksi’s lawyers filed a habeas corpus, or writ seeking to bring a prisoner or other detainee before the court to determine if the person’s imprisonment or detention is lawful, in the Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court (ECSC). ECSC has jurisdiction over six independent states including Antigua and Barbuda and Dominica.Justice Birnie Stephenson of the ECSC ruled the Dominica police will not remove Choksi until further orders or the hearing of the writ. She directed Choksi’s full access to his attorneys, according to a copy of her order reviewed by HT and reports in the local media. Stephenson will hear the matter again on Friday at 9 am Dominica time (6:30 pm IST).Officials in New Delhi monitoring the developments in the case said they are in touch with Dominica to seek Choksi’s repatriation to India on the basis of an Interpol notice as there is no extradition arrangement between the two countries.Also Read | Explained: Mehul Choksi caught in Dominica but India may have to wait to get himChoksi’s lawyers--Wayne Marsh in Dominica and Vijay Aggarwal (India)--have alleged their client was abducted from Antigua and Barbuda, the country of his citizenship, and taken to Dominica illegally on Sunday. They claimed Choksi was tortured and not allowed to speak with his family. The lawyers said his deportation to India would be illegal as he is no longer an Indian citizen.Dominica’s Criminal Investigation Division apprehended Indian-born Choksi, who fled the country in 2018 after being charged in the ₹13,578 Punjab National Bank cheating case, on the Caribbean island on Tuesday on the basis of an Interpol “yellow notice”. He went missing on Sunday evening from Antigua, roughly 101 nautical miles away.Marsh told local media on Thursday that Indian and Antiguan police officials allegedly abducted Choksi on Sunday and brought him to Dominica on a vessel. “His left eye was swollen, and his face was severely bruised. He appeared weak and feeble and there were several marks on his body. He could barely stand from the mattress on the ground,” Marsh told dominicanewsonline.com. He added Choksi informed them that he was on his way to dinner when seven to eight men dressed in blue, who sounded like Indians and Antiguan police officers, placed a bag over his head. The officers allegedly forced him onto a sailing vessel that carried a Dominican flag. Wayne alleged his client was “beaten, shocked in the eye with an electrical device and other parts of his body.”Choksi’s lawyers have contended that his repatriation to India may be legally complicated, especially because India does not have an extradition treaty with Dominica and Choksi currently is Antiguan and Barbuda national.Antigua and Barbuda Prime Minister Gaston Browne told reporters on Thursday that he has requested Dominica to declare Choksi as persona non grata and send him to India. “We asked them [Dominica] not to repatriate him to Antigua. He needs to return to India where he can face the criminal charges levelled against him,” Browne said. Browne added that Choksi had made a monumental error by fleeing to Dominica.Dominica’s acting police chief Lincoln Corbette told HT the fugitive businessman will be repatriated to Antigua and Barbuda after ascertaining all the facts. A Dominica government statement on Thursday also suggested the same while calling Choksi an “Indian citizen”. It confirmed he has been detained for illegal entry into Dominica. The statement said Dominica was in communication with the authorities of Antigua and Barbuda to ascertain some facts “including the status of his Antiguan citizenship”.“Once the information is provided by the Antigua authorities, possible arrangements will be made for Mr Mehul Choksi to be repatriated to Antigua,” the statement added.Antigua and Barbuda has said that it was ready to extradite Choksi to India, for which the process is already on. His extradition case as well as revocation of citizenship is currently being pursued in a court there, which he has challenged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/caribbean-court-stays-immediate-repatriation-of-choksi-101622183770666.html
28-05-2021||India||Plea filed against Twitter in Delhi High Court over non-compliance of new rules||A petition was filed in the Delhi high court on Friday against Twitter over its non-compliance with the new IT rules. The petition has been filed by Amit Acharya, a practising advocate at the Delhi high court and the Supreme Court, as described in the petition. The plea says Twitter must perform their statutory and executive duties as a "significant social media intermediary".The new IT rules which were announced on February 25 and came into effect from May 26 (after a gap of three months) mandate social media intermediaries to disclose the first originator of one message, if flagged by the authorities. This is one of the many rules that the Centre wants social media platforms operating in India to abide by.In reply, Twitter said it will continue to co-operate with the government but in the light of the recent developments, the company was concerned over the safety of its employees in India. This was in reference to the recent visit of a team of Delhi Police at Twitter's New Delhi office. The police team went to serve a notice to the India head after Twitter tagged BJP spokesperson's tweet as "manipulated media".In its statement, issued on Thursday, Twitter also pointed out that some of the provisions in the new IT rules violate freedom of speech.The Centre criticised Twitter's statement and said the rules were finalised after "widest possible consultations". "Twitter needs to stop beating around the bush and comply with the laws of the land. Law making and policy formulations is the sole prerogative of the sovereign and Twitter is just a social media platform and it has no locus in dictating what should India’s legal policy framework should be," it said.Citing several recent examples of violations, the government said it is time that Twitter disabuses itself of this grandiosity and comply with the laws of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plea-filed-against-twitter-in-delhi-high-court-over-non-compliance-of-new-rules-101622182068281.html
28-05-2021||India||No politics, please: St Stephen's principal on his statement on student Satyam Jha's Covid death||St Stephen's College principal John Varghese on Friday issued a clarification and said that the college does not recognise any political body and neither does it encourage politics on the campus. This comes after his heartfelt note 'From Pandemic to Panacea' on the Covid death of a first-year History Honours student of his college was apparently interpreted with political colour.Lamenting the passing away of Satyam Jha, "a young man looking forward to life expectantly", the principal wrote, "The claims of belligerent and blind leaders who are immune to suffering and deaths of simple people also show that we are veering off dangerously to becoming a cruel and insensitive race. How do all those claims of power and importance matter before the death of a loved one? Nothing," he wrote in a long note where he said Covid teaches people humility.But his message was reported in a "divisive, mischievous and irresponsible" nature, he said. "Common sense and propriety demand that every communication be treated in its entirety, paying full attention to the context in which it is made," he wrote in the note issued on Friday.The passing away of the 18-year-old has come as a shock as Saytam was actively involved in arranging Covid relief until he contracted the virus.Heartbreaking news to start the day with: a topper at my school, studying my subject in my college, helping others, dies of #Covid at 18 years of age. My heart grieves for his parents. Tragedies assail us daily but there’s a poignancy to the loss of one with so much potential. pic.twitter.com/XMfB6bNIEzCongress MP Shashi Tharoor took to Twitter and said it was heartbreaking to start the day with the news of this death. "Heartbreaking news to start the day with: a topper at my school, studying my subject in my college, helping others, dies of #Covid at 18 years of age. My heart grieves for his parents. Tragedies assail us daily but there’s a poignancy to the loss of one with so much potential," he wrote.Satyam was admitted to New Medical College Hospital in Kota after he developed breathlessness, almost 10 days after he got fever. Then he was shifted to a private hospital and passed away on May 25. Satyam did not step in the campus because of the ongoing pandemic and attended classes from Kota online.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-politics-please-st-stephen-s-principal-on-his-statement-on-student-satyam-yadav-s-covid-death-101622179331574.html
28-05-2021||India||Cyclone Yaas: Navy continues relief operations in Odisha's Balasore district||The Indian Navy informed that it will continue rescue operations in Balasore district of Odisha following the havoc created by Cyclone Yaas.As per an official statement by the Indian Navy on Thursday, "The Navy Disaster Relief Team was deployed on May 27 at Sadar block of Balasore district for carrying out relief activities in the area around Parikhi village which is worst affected due to water-logging."The HADR Naval team has set up and operationalized a Community Kitchen at the multipurpose cyclone shelter of Parikhi Village, Sadar block. Meals were prepared and distributed at fisherman colonies of Budhigadiya, Nandachak, Boulbeni at Parikhi village for over 700 personnel. The community kitchen has been a big success and has provided much-needed succour to the affected people and they expressed gratitude for the timely service provided during the disaster.Also Read| As cyclone Yaas raged, pregnant woman in Odisha carried on charpoy to hospitalAnother Naval Relief team is scheduled to proceed for Talasari (northmost fishing village of Odisha) to distribute relief material in affected areas of Talasari, Bhograi, Chandramani and Inchundi villages today.The team has also carried out tree cutting and clearance of certain roads at Balasore.Four naval ships with relief material have already reached Dhamra anchorage to provide relief to the people of the Bhadrak district. The helicopters from the ships were launched to augment the efforts at Balasore district. They supplied 100 prepared food material packets and 300 dry provision packets to the relief team for distribution.The remnant of cyclone Yaas has weakened into a well-marked low-pressure area over Bihar and adjoining east Uttar Pradesh, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) informed on Friday.Also Read| Remnant of Cyclone Yaas moves away, weakens into a low pressure areaThe cyclone made landfall in Odisha on Wednesday morning and raged over West Bengal and Jharkhand over the last few days. Severe flooding and significant damage has been witnessed in many parts.Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to visit Odisha and West Bengal today to assess the impact of the cyclone.He will first land in Odisha's capital city Bhubaneswar, where he will hold a review meeting. The Prime Minister will then proceed for an aerial survey of the affected areas of Odisha's Balasore and Bhadrak and also West Bengal's Purba Medinipur, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-yaas-navy-continues-relief-operations-in-odisha-s-balasore-district-101622179037347.html
28-05-2021||India||Govt okays setting up of Covid vaccination centres for elderly, differently-abled||The Centre has issued guidelines for making operational “nearer to homes” Covid-19 vaccination centres for the elderly and differently-abled. The special vaccination centres will follow “a community-based, flexible and people-centric approach”, Union health ministry said in a statement on Thursday.Individuals above 60, who have not received any vaccination doses yet, and younger people with disability due to physical or medical conditions will be eligible for jabs at these centres.The ministry has asked states to make arrangements to make functional such centres.As per the guidelines, a community-based approach needs to be followed where sessions can be conducted in non-health facility-based settings and are nearer to homes such as community centres, resident welfare association centres, panchayat houses, schools, old age homes, etc.Based on the cohort of the eligible population, the district or urban task forces will decide the location of a centre to maximize the reach of services to the target population, reduce vaccine wastage with minimal impact on the existing health services.Also Read | India’s daily Covid-19 cases fall to 186,364; death toll reaches 318,895Each such centre will be linked to an existing Covid vaccination centre (CVC). The CVC in charge will be responsible to provide the vaccine, arrange logistics and human resources required.Once identified and verified, all special centres for the elderly and differently-abled will be registered on the Co-WIN portal. Each of these centres will have five members; a doctor, vaccinator, vaccination officer 1 for Co-WIN registration and/or verification of a beneficiary, and vaccination officer 2 and 3 for crowd control. An assistant to the vaccinator will ensure a 30-minute observation of beneficiaries following vaccination for any adverse effect following immunisation, and any other support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-okays-setting-up-of-covid-vaccination-centres-for-elderly-differentlyabled-101622179270404.html
28-05-2021||India||'Heed public opinion': Chidambaram hits out at Centre over farmers' protests||Senior Congress leader P Chidamabaram on Friday lashed out at the Centre saying that it is trying to use the coronavirus pandemic in its favour to change the narrative over the ongoing farmers' agitation at the Delhi borders. "The new spin is 'prolonging the agitation in the midst of a pandemic is unconscionable,'" Chidambaram wrote on Twitter."The obvious counter is 'prolonging the controversial farm laws in the midst of a pandemic is unconscionable,'" he added.Calling on the government to scrap the three contentious farm laws, Chidambaram said, "If the government is a servant of the people, it should heed public opinion... and begin fresh consultations.""The farmers are determined, the government is stubborn, '' he also wrote on the micro-blogging site.The farmers mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh have camped on major national highways for six months now, demanding a repeal of the laws. The protests continued as the second wave of Covid-19 raged in the country and the daily numbers rose at unprecedented levels.During the rise in Covid-19 cases, several government leaders appealed to farmers to call off their mass protests over fears that it may emerge as a viral "super-spreader" event.However, agitating farmers said that the new agricultural laws make farmer livelihoods vulnerable to corporate agri-businesses is itself a life and death matter, and continued with their sit-ins.On May 26, farmers observed a "black day" to mark six months of the agitation. They are protesting against the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.The laws open up the agriculture sector to private players and have been hailed by the government as "historic" and long-needed reforms. However, the farmers fear that the legislation will end the mandi system where they are assured of the minimum support price for their produce.However, protesting farmers say that it will open up the vast agriculture sector to a big corporation and would leave them at the mercy of them without any legal guarantee.The Centre has held several rounds of talks with farmers' representatives but so far they have failed to be fruitful.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heed-public-opinion-chidambaram-hits-out-at-centre-over-farmers-protests-101622178285953.html
28-05-2021||India||Vaccine dose mix-up: May not be a problem, says Centre as 20 in UP get 2 different shots||Administering two different doses of vaccines is not a cause for concern, the Centre has said after at least 20 people in Uttar Pradesh's Siddharthnagar district bordering Nepal were administered with different doses of vaccines, in a case of "negligence". Niti Aayog (health) member VK Paul said the vaccination centres should stick to the same dose of vaccines, as per the protocol, but if a mix-up has happened, there are unlikely to be any adverse effects.The 20 people who received two different vaccines in two slots are all from Audahi Kalan village and are aged above 45 years. On April 1, there were given a dose of Covishield, which was their first dose. On May 14, they were administered the second dose and as the health workers did not check the card to find out which vaccine was administered to them earlier, they were given Covaxin, by mistake.The mix-up was pointed out by a villager Ram Surat who noticed that he was given two different vaccines in two doses. Reports said none of them reported any adverse effect.Some countries have allowed mixing of Covishield first dose with Pfizer or Moderna second dose or vice versa, based on studies.When the vaccination drive began in India in January, the Centre asked states and UTs to be alert to not mix two vaccines, but recently Dr Paul has said that theoretically and scientifically, mixing of two vaccines is possible, but the subject needs detailed studies. On Thursday, the Centre said it is looking to mix-and-match vaccine doses on a trial basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccine-dose-mix-up-may-not-be-a-problem-says-centre-as-20-in-uttar-pradesh-get-different-shots-101622177308788.html
28-05-2021||India||Narada case: Calcutta HC to hear leaders’ recall plea against stay on bail today||A five-judge bench of the Calcutta high court will hear today the recall petition of the four politicians, accused in the 2016 Narada sting operation case, against a stay order on their bail. The four politicians are: Sitting ministers of Mamata Banerjee-led West Bengal government, Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee, Trinamool Congress legislator Madan Mitra, and former MLA Sovan Chatterjee.They were arrested by the CBI on May 17. Even though a special CBI court granted them interim bail, the Calcutta high court stayed the bail and sent them to judicial custody. On May 21, however, the HC put them under house arrest and constituted a larger five bench to hear the bail plea. Also Watch | ‘Court displayed ignorance of law’: Top lawyers slam Goa verdict in Tejpal caseOn Thursday, appearing for the agency, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta sought that the entire proceedings that took place at a special CBI court on May 17 be declared as vitiated. The five judge bench headed by acting Chief Justice of Calcutta high court, however, questioned the CBI if a judicial order can be disregarded on the basis of public perception. Appearing on behalf of Subrata Mukherjee, TMC MP and advocate Kalyan Banerjee told the court that when a recall application on a stay order is filed, it must be heard within two weeks. The recall petition was filed on May 19.The Narada sting case pertains to a controversy that erupted ahead of the 2016 assembly elections after Narada News portal uploaded a series of videos purportedly showing a number of high-profile TMC leaders receiving money in exchange for favours to a fictitious company.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/narada-case-calcutta-hc-to-hear-leaders-recall-plea-against-stay-on-bail-today-101622176989992.html
28-05-2021||India||India's daily Covid-19 cases fall to 186,364; death toll reaches 318,895||India recorded 186,364 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Friday, lowest in last 44 days, according to the Union health ministry's dashboard on Friday. The death toll increased to 315,235 as 3,660 people succumbed to the viral disease over the last 24 hours. After Friday's additions, the overall nationwide tally now stands at 27,555,457.For the fifteenth consecutive day, recoveries continued to outnumber the daily new cases as 259,459 people were recuperated from Covid-19 over the last 24 hours, it also showed.The recovery rate has increased to 90.34 per cent, while the weekly positivity rate currently at 10.42 per cent, as per the health ministry figures.The number of active cases has dropped to 2,343,152.On August 7 last year, India's Covid-19 tally crossed the 20 lakh mark. It breached the 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19 last year.India crossed the grim milestone of 20 million infections on May 4 this year.The second Covid-19 wave in India is now on the "downswing," the Centre said on Thursday, highlighting that the current number of active cases is still "very high" and advised states and Union territories (UTs) to not let down their guards.The Centre also stressed that any relaxation of curbs by the states and the union territories(UTs) may be considered at an appropriate time in a graded manner.In a fresh directive from the Union ministry of home affairs, the Centre directed the states and UTs to continue the ongoing Covid-19 guidelines till June 30. It also asked them to go for intensive and local containment measures in districts with a high number of cases to check the spread of disease.Meanwhile, India is considering Pfizer's request to grant it indemnity from costs relating to severe vaccine side-effects, adding that the company had signalled the availability of its Covid-19 shot, possibly from July. "We are engaged with Pfizer because they have indicated availability of ... certain volume of vaccines, in the coming months, possibly starting in July," V K Paul said in a press briefing.The government is also in discussions with Johnson & Johnson and Moderna.Centre scrapped local trials for "well-established" foreign vaccines on to fast-track imports after the country faced a severe shortage of vaccines leading to many states halting vaccination drive for people in the age group of 18-44.The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses is 205,451,902, according to the provisional report by the health ministry on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-daily-covid-19-cases-fall-to-186-364-death-toll-reaches-318895-101622172510115.html
28-05-2021||India||Maha Covid numbers low; govt to decide on lockdown soon||Maharashtra recorded 21,273 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases on Thursday, even as the state government decided to extend the current lockdown, in view of the rapid rise in infections in more than a dozen districts.The state, however, may extend the restricted time limit of four hours for buying essential commodities and may also allow opening of shops.The decision is likely to be taken in the next two days, officials said.The current state-wide lockdown, which was imposed on April 22, is ending on June 1 at 7am. The issue of extending the lockdown was discussed in the state cabinet meeting held on Thursday.Currently, people can’t step out unless they need medical attention, or are working in an essential sector, or want to buy essential commodities, and that too only between 7am and 11am.State health minister Rajesh Tope said there was no chance of lifting the lockdown as there are many districts where cases are on the rise. The state government can provide some relaxation in the restrictions, which will be decided by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray after having deliberations with the state task force, he added.Also Read | Covid-19: What you need to know todayA statement issued by the chief minister office (CMO) said, “Though the positivity rate of the state is coming down, 10 to15 districts are reporting rapid growth in Covid-19 cases. There is also a rise in cases of mucormycosis. Active cases of the state have dropped to the tally of highest cases recorded during the first wave. But we still need to be careful. Instead of completely lifting the lockdown, we will have to extend it from June 1 and also provide relaxations in the restrictions wherever necessary. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray directed the state administration to take steps accordingly after discussing the same in the state cabinet meeting held on Thursday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-covid-numbers-low-govt-to-decide-on-lockdown-soon-101622175190007.html
28-05-2021||India||Modi to meet Mamata today to take stock of damage caused by Cyclone Yaas||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to meet West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday to take stock of the damage caused by Cyclone Yaas in the state.The preliminary assessment puts the damage to around ₹15,000 crore, Banerjee told reporters on Thursday.Modi is scheduled to conduct an aerial survey of the cyclone-hit areas of Odisha and land at Kalaikunda airbase in West Bengal. Banerjee too would conduct an aerial survey of at least two districts before heading to Kalikunda.“The meeting would be held at Kalaikunda airbase of the Air Force in West Midnapore. It is scheduled around 2.15 pm-2.30 pm,” said a bureaucrat.This would be the first face to face meeting between Modi and Banerjee after the Trinamool Congress (TMC) returned to power for the third term following a bitter campaign.Also Read | Remnant of Cyclone Yaas moves away, weakens into a low pressure areaThe TMC won 213 seats, while the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) could only manage 77 seats. Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah led the BJP’s campaign in Bengal.Banerjee on May 20 hit out at Modi and alleged that none of the chief ministers was allowed to speak, and they were all sitting like “puppets” at a virtual meeting with the Prime Minister on the Covid-19 situation.The storm surge triggered by the spring tide of a full moon and the cyclone inflicted heavy damage in West Bengal.A second bureaucrat said more than 10 million people have been affected. “Around three lakh [30,00,00] houses have been damaged while 1.16 lakh hectares of croplands have been destroyed after saline water from the rivers and sea gushed into the villages through breaches in the embankments and over them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-to-meet-mamata-today-to-take-stock-of-damage-caused-by-cyclone-yaas-101622174889915.html
28-05-2021||India||Jaishankar holds talks with US NSA, trade representative||External affairs minister S Jaishankar held a wide range of discussions with top officials of the Biden administration including National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan, US trade representative Katherine Tai and top spy Avril Haines, and members of Congress and business leaders on Thursday, in the first such expansive in-person engagement between the two governments. The minister said in a tweet, which is deemed as the official statement from the ministry, that he and Sullivan discussed the Indo-Pacific region, which is a core areas of cooperation for the two nations bilaterally and multilaterally with their Quad partners Australia and Japan; and Afghanistan, which is one of a few areas of dissonance because of India’s unease over US plans to withdraw all its troops from there by September 11.The White House National Security Council said in a statement the two leaders agreed that the two countries “should continue working closely together to address common challenges throughout the Indo-Pacific region”. They also greed that “people-to-people ties, and shared values are the foundation” of the strategic partnership that is “helping to end the pandemic, supporting a free and open Indo-Pacific, and providing global leadership on climate change”.India and the United States are collaborating along with Quad partners Australia and Japan to produce more than 1 billion Covid-19 vaccines for distribution among Indo-Pacific countries, as part of an initiative they announced after their first summit level meeting, held virtually in March.Jaishankar also “conveyed appreciation” to Sullivan for US “solidarity” in addressing India’s Covid-19 challenge. Sullivan noted that the United States, together with private sector companies and private individuals, had sent $500 million worth of relief to India, which has included oxygen supplies needed direly to hep India tide over a crippling shortage, therapeutics such as Remdesivir and personal protective equipment.Also Read | ‘Hindutva policies’ concocted imagery, says Jaishankar in USJaishankar also thanked US Trade Representative Tai at their meeting for her “positive stance”, he said in a tweet, on “IPR issues & support for effective & robust supply chains”.America’s support for India and South Africa’s proposal at the WTO to temporarily waive intellectual property rights to Covid-19 vaccines to ensure their equitable distribution around the world, which she announced earlier this month, reversing Trump administration’s opposition, has paved the way for other opponents to fall in line as well.“Our trade, technology & business cooperation are at the core of our strategic partnership. Enhancing them is vital to post-Covid economic recovery.” Jaishankar wrote in the tweet.Trade is a the single most contentious issue in the bilateral relationship. And it has defied resolution across governments in India and the United States. Tai and Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal have had some initial discussions, but they haven’t really had a crack at some of the key issues.The external affairs minister also met the Director of National Intelligence, who is the top US spy with oversight over 16 intelligences agencies, including the CIA. “Glad to meet DNI Avril Haines,” he wrote on Twitter. “Look forward to working closely together to address contemporary security challenges and advance our strategic partnership.”Jaishankar met US business leaders as well, in two separate batches. He met first representatives of the US-Indian Business Council (better known by its acronym USIBC), an arm of the US chamber of commerce, which is one of the most powerful lobbying group in the US. He then met members of the US-India Strategic Partnership Forum (USISPF), rival body that is backed by most major US investors in India and the Modi government.The minister, who was once ambassador to the US and knows personally most of the key players, also met key lawmakers — Gregory Meeks and Michael McCaul, the chair and ranking member respectively of the powerful House Foreign Relations Committee, which controls US spending abroad.“Discussed developments pertaining to Quad and our cooperation on vaccines,” Jaishankar tweeted, adding, “Recognize their leadership in building stronger ties.”India enjoys strong bipartisan support on Capitol Hill, home to US Congress, and the Indian side wanted the minister to meet as many lawmakers as possible, but they were constrained because most of them were out of town for a major American holiday, Memorial Day.Jaishankar was still able to catch the co-chairs of the House India Caucus, which is touted as the largest country-specific group. “The US Congress has been a tremendous pillar of support as India meets the Covid challenge,” he said of his meeting with the India Caucus co-chairs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-holds-talks-with-us-nsa-trade-representative-101622173869752.html
28-05-2021||India||Remnant of Cyclone Yaas moves away, weakens into a low pressure area||The depression, remnant of very severe cyclonic storm Yaas, over the central parts of Jharkhand moved northwards and lay around 100 km north of Ranchi and 150 km south of Patna on Thursday night, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. It moved northwards and weakened into a well-marked low pressure area on Friday morning, IMD added."Depression (remnant of very severe cyclonic storm “YAAS”) over Bihar & adjoining Jharkhand has weakened into a well-marked low pressure area lay over Bihar adjoining East UP at 0530 hrs today," IMD tweeted.Cyclone Yaas made landfall in Odisha on Wednesday morning and has raged over West Bengal and Jharkhand over the last few days.Depression (Remnant of Very Severe Cyclonic Storm “YAAS”) over Bihar & adjoining Jharkhand has weakened into a well-marked low pressure area lay over Bihar adjoining East UP at 0530 hrs IST of today the 28th May 2021. pic.twitter.com/wD9pawJxEnThe cyclonic storm, second to ravage the western coast of India in a week after Cyclone Taukate, impacted Odisha and West Bengal the most. West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said that according to initial estimates, the cyclone has caused damages of around ₹15,000 crore in the state. She also announced a package of ₹1,000 crore in immediate relief in the form of a scheme named Duare Tran (doorstep relief). On Friday, the chief minister is scheduled to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi who will be in state to take stock of relief measures being taken in the aftermath of the cyclone. The PM will arrive at Kalaikunda Air Force Station in West Bengal after he assesses the damage caused by the cyclone in Odisha and will be received by Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar. CM Banerjee will also meet PM Modi at the Air Force station and discuss issues related to the cyclone, before conducting aerial surveys of cyclone-affected areas in the state separately, news agency ANI reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/remnant-of-cyclone-yaas-moves-away-weakens-into-a-low-pressure-area-101622170340112.html
28-05-2021||India||Monsoon likely to arrive this Monday, says IMD||Monsoon has advanced into some more parts of Maldives-Comorin area, southwest and eastcentral Bay of Bengal, most parts of southeast Bay of Bengal and some parts of westcentral Bay of Bengal on Thursday.Conditions are likely to become favourable for monsoon onset over Kerala on May 31, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.Also Read | Monsoon to arrive early in Kerala: IMDThe normal date for monsoon onset over Kerala is June 1 but Yaas helped pull the monsoon flow over Arabian Sea, according to IMD. Second stage monsoon forecast with details of likely zonal distribution of rain will be released by IMD on May 31.Cyclone Yaas weakened into a well marked low pressure area over Bihar and east Uttar Pradesh this morning.The depression (remnant of Yaas) over the central parts of Jharkhand had moved northwards and lay around 100 km north of Ranchi (Jharkhand) and 150km south of Patna on Thursday night. Under its influence, isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall with extremely heavy falls is likely over Bihar on Friday; over east Uttar Pradesh on Thursday and Friday; over Bihar on Friday and heavy rainfall likely is over Odisha and Chhattisgarh during the period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-likely-to-arrive-this-monday-says-imd-101622172250819.html
28-05-2021||India||Ramdev-IMA tussle goes on as Patanjali prepares 'befitting reply' to defamation notice||Patanjali Yogpeeth has confirmed that it has received a defamation notice served by the Indian Medical Association (IMA), demanding an apology from Yoga Guru Ramdev over remarks on allopathy, and said it will give legally a "befitting reply".While responding to an e-mail query by PTI, a statement from the Patanjali Yogpeeth quoting general secretary Acharya Balkrishna confirmed it and said: "We will give them befitting reply legally which way we do all things while serving our great motherland and humanity."The Haridwar-based organisation also said that Patanjali carries all the activities with "scientific and truthful temperament" and "cannot allow anyone to disparage, neglect and demean the great knowledge and science of rishis and scriptures".On Wednesday, the IMA had served a six-page defamation notice on Ramdev for his alleged disparaging remarks against allopathy and allopathic doctors, demanding an apology from him within 15 days, failing which it said the association will demand compensation of ₹1,000 crore from the yoga guru.The notice served on behalf of IMA (Uttarakhand) secretary Ajay Khanna by his lawyer Neeraj Pandey describes the remarks by Ramdev as damaging to the reputation and the image of allopathy and its practitioners.The notice has also asked Ramdev to make a video clip contradicting all his allegations and circulate it on social media platforms where he had uploaded his earlier video.It further asked the yoga guru to withdraw a "misleading" advertisement from all platforms endorsing "Coronil kit", a product of his firm, as an effective medicine for Covid-19, failing which an FIR and a criminal case will be lodged against him by the IMA.Besides, the IMA had also written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi demanding that the yoga guru be booked immediately under sedition charges for alleged misinformation campaign on vaccination and challenging government protocols for treatment of Covid-19.On Sunday, Ramdev was forced to withdraw a statement made in a viral video clip in which he is heard questioning some of the medicines being used to treat the coronavirus infection and saying that "lakhs have died from taking allopathic medicines for Covid-19".The remarks were met with vociferous protests from the doctors' association, following which Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan asked him to withdraw the "extremely unfortunate" statement.A day later, the yoga guru posed 25 questions to the IMA in an "open letter" on his Twitter handle, asking if allopathy offered permanent relief for ailments such as hypertension and type-1 and 2 diabetes.He went on to list modern-day ailments such as Parkinson's disease and also wondered if allopathy had any painless cure to treat infertility as well as to reverse ageing and increase haemoglobin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ramdevima-tussle-goes-on-as-patanjali-says-it-will-give-befitting-reply-101622171485444.html
28-05-2021||India||Pfizer, Moderna, J&J: When will foreign vaccines be available in India?||The Centre on Thursday reiterated that contrary to the common accusations of the government's "inaction" in buying vaccines from abroad, the Centre has held multiple rounds of discussions with Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson and Moderna. Sputnik V vaccines from Russia have already arrived and are being administered.When will the rest of the vaccines arrive? Here is all you need to knowPfizerUS pharma giant Pfizer has already said it is ready to offer five crore doses to India between July and October this year. But it has emphasised that it won't deal with individual state governments and will only transact with the central government. It has also sought indemnity in India like it did in every other country where it supplied vaccines and the discussions are on over it."We are looking at what their expectations are from the government and they are looking at what our expectations are from them. That's the process in which this will move. Because they will have to come to India and apply for licensure in India, that's one path and there are imperatives of cold chain and supply," Niti Aayog (health) member VK Paul said.Pfizer has informed the Indian authorities that its vaccine is highly effective, effective against variant found in India, and also on children aged 12 years.Also Read: Govt pushes back on Covid-19 vaccine plan criticismModernaAccording to a PTI report, Moderna may launch a single-dose Covid-19 dose in India next year in association with Cipla. But it has already conveyed to the Indian authorities that it does not have vaccines to start the supply this year. Cipla is interested in procuring five crore doses from Moderna for 2020 and has "requested confirmation from the central government in respect of stability in regulatory requirements/policy regime", the report said.Johnson and JohnsonIndia is exploring ways to secure Johnson and Johnson's vaccines for the Indian market as the US company is not likely to export its vaccines to other countries in near future, a PTI report said. One billion doses of the J&J vaccine will be manufactured in India by Hyderabad's Biological E under the Quad Vaccine Partnership, but those will not be for the domestic market, Hence, the government working on finding out ways to secure a part of those doses.Reports said a speedy launch of Sputnik Light — a single-dose Covid-19 vaccine — is likely as the Russian manufacturer will file regulatory approval in a few weeks. It could become the first single-dose Covid-19 vaccine to be approved in India, a report said.Buying vaccines from companies abroad is not like buying something off the shelf, Niti Aayog said on Thursday, clarifying that companies have limited supply and they also give preference to countries of their origin.No application of any foreign manufacturer is pending for approval with the drug controller, the Centre said emphasising that it has eased the entry of vaccines approved by the World Health Organization and the regulatory bodies of the US, the UK and Japan. "These vaccines will not need to undergo prior bridging trials. The provision has now been further amended to waive the trial requirement altogether for the well-established vaccines manufactured in other countries," it said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pfizer-moderna-j-j-when-foreign-vaccines-will-be-available-in-india-101622169430793.html
28-05-2021||India||Mehul Choksi's repatriation stayed by Dominica court, 'Govt's sovereign decision,' says Antigua PM||A Dominica court has put a stay on the repatriation of fugitive Mehul Choksi after Choksi's legal team in Dominica filed a habeas corpus petition and highlighted that he was denied legal rights and was not allowed to meet his lawyers initially, local media reported. The matter is expected to be heard again on May 28 at 9am local time. This comes after the acting police chief of Dominica Lincoln Corbette told Hindustan Times that the fugitive businessman, wanted in India in multicrore PNB scam, will be repatriated to Antigua and not to India.Currently, Choksi is in the custody of Dominica Police and is being investigated, police said.Also Read: Legal hurdles may hit Choksi’s repatriationUnder a habeas corpus petition, an arrested person has to be brought before a judge, especially to secure the person's release "unless lawful grounds are shown for their detention". Choksi's Dominica lawyer Wayne Marshe said it is a "travesty of justice" as Choksi is entitled to legal representation — be it in Antigua or Dominica.Choksi's lawyer in India Vijay Aggarwal said his client was picked up by various people from Jolly Harbour, where his car was found after his sudden disappearance, and then he was taken to Dominica.Watch: Hunt for Mehul Choksi: Is India close to getting custody of PNB scam accused?"I noticed that he was severely beaten, his eyes were swollen and had several burnt marks on his body. He reported to me that he was abducted at Jolly Harbour in Antigua and brought to Dominica by persons whom he believed to be Indian and Antiguan police on a vessel he described to be about 60-70 feet in length," Choksi's lawyer in Dominica Wayne Marshe told ANI.After Choksi was apprehended in Dominica, Antiguan Prime Minister Gaston Browne said he asked Dominica to hand Choksi over to India directly. But the legality of that in the absence of an extradition arrangement between India and Dominica was questioned."Ultimately, it is the sovereign decision of the government of Dominica as to which country they repatriate Mehul Choksi unless the Court states otherwise," Browne told ANI.Dominica is not among the 58 countries with which India has either extradition treaties or arrangements, while it has the same with Antigua and Barbuda. In such cases, the decision of where a fugitive will be repatriated depends on local authorities.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mehul-choksi-s-repatriation-stayed-by-dominica-court-101622165618137.html
28-05-2021||India||Cyclone Yaas: PM Modi to visit Odisha, West Bengal to assess impact||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Odisha and West Bengal on Friday to assess the damage caused by cyclonic storm Yaas in the two coastal states. He will first land in Bhubaneswar, where he will hold a review meeting before undertaking an aerial survey of Odisha's Balasore and Bhadrak and West Bengal's Purba Medinipur, officials said. He will then hold a review meeting in West Bengal.On Thursday too, the PM chaired a meeting over the impact of the cyclone and advised officials to ensure that normal life of people is back on track at the earliest.Also Read | 8 lakh people affected due to Cyclone Yaas in Jharkhand, UN says ready to support rescue efforts: 10 pointsEven as power services have been restored in most affected areas, according to officials present in the meeting, damage due to inundation need to be assessed and fixed.About 106 teams of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) were deployed with 46 teams each in West Bengal and Odisha that rescued over 1,000 people and removed more than 2,500 trees or poles that had fallen and obstructed the roads, according to a release issued after the meeting.Watch | Cyclone Yaas: PM Modi to visit Odisha, WB; red alert issued for Jharkhand, Bihar﻿﻿Cyclone Yaas, the second cyclone in less than a week to batter the western coast of India, has left behind a trail of damage and destruction. According to experts, mass evacuations saved many lives.Even though the cyclone did not make landfall with the intensity the India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicted, it still caused the sea to surge up to four metres, inundating coastal villages in Balasore and Bhadrak where it made landfall. Over 1 million people were evacuated from low-lying areas in the affected states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-yaas-pm-modi-to-visit-odisha-west-bengal-to-assess-impact-101622161187054.html
28-05-2021||India||Indian among 9 killed in US||A 36-year-old Indian-origin Sikh man was among the nine people killed in a shooting rampage by an employee at a rail yard in northern Calfornia’s San Jose, local authorities said on Thursday.Taptejdeep Singh, who was a light rail operator at the Valley Transportation Authority (VTA) for nine years, was the first victim to be publically identified by his family, The Mercury News reported.Singh belonged to the Gagrewal village in Punjab’s Tarn Taran district, and moved to the US along with his family over two decades ago. He is survived by his wife, two children -- aged eight and two – and his parents.On Wednesday, an employee of the rail yard in the heart of Silicon Valley gunned down nine people and then killed himself, officials said. The assailant has not been named officially, but two law enforcement officers identified him as 57-year-old Samuel Cassidy, according to news agency AP. Investigators offered no immediate word on a possible motive. “We heard that he (gunman) chose the people to shoot, but I don’t know why he chose him because he has nothing to do with him,” Taptejdeep’s cousin Bagga Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-among-9-killed-in-us-101622163008479.html
28-05-2021||India||Covid-19 tracker: More than 186,000 new cases take tally to over 27.5 million||||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-tracker-more-than-186-000-new-cases-take-tally-to-over-27-5-million-101622161102652.html
28-05-2021||India||US-India partnership will help end Covid-19 pandemic: Jake Sullivan||US-India strategic partnership will help to end the Covid-19 pandemic, said US National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan on Thursday (local time)."I met today with India's Minister Jaishankar. Our people-to-people ties and our values are the foundation of the US-India partnership and will help us end the pandemic, lead on climate, and support a free and open Indo-Pacific," Sullivan tweeted.The comment comes after he met External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar here and discussed wide-ranging issues including the Indo-Pacific, climate change and Afghanistan."Pleased to meet NSA @JakeSullivan46. Wide-ranging discussions including on Indo-Pacific and Afghanistan. Conveyed appreciation for US solidarity in addressing the Covid challenge. India-US vaccine partnership can make a real difference," Jaishankar tweeted."National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan met today with Minister of External Affairs S Jaishankar to review the strong partnership between the world's largest democracies," the National Security Council Spokesperson Emily Horne said in a White House statement.Horne said further that both the leaders welcomed cooperation in recent weeks that resulted in deliveries of over USD 500 million in COVID-19 relief supplies from the US federal and state governments, US companies, and from private citizens across America for the people of India."They discussed a range of regional and global issues, and agreed the United States and India should continue working closely together to address common challenges throughout the Indo-Pacific region," the statement said."They agreed that people-to-people ties and shared values are the foundation of the US-India strategic partnership that is helping to end the pandemic, supporting a free and open Indo-Pacific, and providing global leadership on climate change," the statement added.Jaishankar arrived in the US on May 24, and is slated to visit many senior officials, including Secretary of State Antony Blinken, during his stay till May 28.Jaishankar is also scheduled to meet US Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin, Secretary Anthony Blinken, high level officials from Department of Homeland Security, USAID, Department of Energy and National Science a foundation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/usindia-partnership-will-help-end-covid-19-pandemic-jake-sullivan-101622160658894.html
28-05-2021||India||Cyclone Tauktae is a warning for India’s west coast||India saw its second cyclone in a month as Cyclone Yaas, in the Bay of Bengal, battered the Odisha and West Bengal coast on May 26. To be sure, cyclones in the Bay of Bengal are almost an annual affair.But Cyclone Tauktae in the Arabian Sea, which affected almost all states on the western coast earlier this month, was a more uncommon phenomenon. Not only are cyclones relatively uncommon in the Arabian Sea, Tauktae also intensified rapidly. This is something the India Meteorological Department (IMD) had not forecast. With the climate crisis, the Arabian Sea could see more such intense cyclonic disturbances going forward, according to experts. An HT analysis shows that this will inflict a far bigger cost on lives and livelihoods than cyclonic activity on India’s eastern coast.2011-2020 period saw the highest number of cyclones in Arabian Sea since 1890sIMD has records of cyclones among the two major seas of the North Indian Ocean – Indian Ocean area north of the equator – going back to 1890s. A decade-wise analysis of the data shows that the Bay of Bengal has had more cyclones than the Arabian Sea in every decade since 1891-1900. However, the data also shows the Arabian Sea has been becoming more and more turbulent. It had 17 cyclonic events between 2011 and 2020, the highest in a decade since the 1890s. Eleven out of these were severe cyclones. Climate scientists, including those at IMD, also suggest that the Arabian Sea might see a higher increase in the intensity of cyclones, if not the number, than the Bay of Bengal in the future. “The sea surface temperatures over the Arabian Sea have gone up, so has the ocean heat content. This may not affect the total number of cyclones developing over the Arabian Sea. But when cyclones form over the Arabian Sea, they are likely to experience severe intensification. This is because the warming over the Arabian Sea is higher than the Bay of Bengal. We should be prepared,” said M Rajeevan, secretary, Ministry of Earth Sciences. Clearly, stronger cyclones pose a bigger threat to life and property in the future.Warmer oceans don’t just increase cyclones, they also make them more unpredictablePredicting cyclone trajectories is crucial to minimising their damage. “Climate projections indicate that the Arabian Sea will continue warming under increased carbon emissions, resulting in more intense cyclones in the future. Ocean warming has made some new challenges also. Cyclones are now intensifying rapidly since warm ocean waters act as fuel for them,” said Roxy Matthew Koll, a climate scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology. Higher sea surface temperature acts as a catalyst for intensification of low-pressure areas to cyclones. “Extremely severe cyclones such as Fani (2019) and Amphan (2020) (in the Bay of Bengal) intensified from weak to severe status in less than 24 hours due to warm ocean conditions. That gives us less time to be prepared,” Koll added. Tauktae intensified from a Very Severe Cyclonic Storm to an Extremely Severe Cyclonic Storm within a few hours from 11.30pm on May 16 to 5.30am on May 17. Its sudden intensification took IMD by surprise. “Tauktae intensified very rapidly. We did not state that it would intensify to an extremely severe cyclone in our forecast. But it did because of extremely favourable oceanic and atmospheric conditions,” said M Mohapatra, director general, IMD, on May 17.Also read: Maharashtra cabinet clears ₹252-crore relief package for Cyclone Tauktae-hit districtsWestern coast has more to lose from cyclones in material termsThe states on India’s western coast contributed 35% to the country’s GDP in 2018-19, the latest year for which data from all states is available in the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) database. The states on the eastern coast contributed 21%. Natural disasters do not affect all sectors in the same way. An oil refinery stands to lose much more than a law firm or outsourcing-based IT firm. The western coast appears more vulnerable once this is accounted for too. States on the western coast contributed 46% of India’s manufacturing GVA in 2018-19, while east coast states contributed 22%. One could argue that cyclonic disruptions need not affect all states on India’s coastline. HT has analysed district-wise data from the Annual Survey of Industry (ASI) conducted in 2009-10 (latest district-level data) to factor this in. This shows that India’s manufacturing activity is highly skewed in nature. Of the 593 census districts at that time, 82% of India’s total manufacturing output was concentrated in just 100. Among these, 15 were on the western coastline and 12 were on the eastern coastline. Output value of western coastline districts was disproportionately more than their number. Western coastline districts among these 100 accounted for 27.4% of India’s total manufacturing output, while eastern coastline districts accounted for 10%.Western coast is more densely populated which entails a greater risk to human livesIt’s not just money at stake if cyclones become more intense on the west coast. This coast has more densely populated pockets than the eastern coast. This also increases the risk of loss of human lives. There are 33 census districts each on the western (from Kutch to Thiruvananthapuram) and eastern coast (from Kanyakumari to North 24 Parganas) of India. While the overall population density of the western coast (474 persons per square kilometre) is less than the eastern coast (565), the mean and median density of the districts on the western coast is higher. This means that the western coast has more pockets of high population density than the eastern coast. This will make evacuation and relief work more challenging.Also read: 3 jumbo Covid centres shut before Cyclone Tauktae to reopen for patients from June 1||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-tauktae-is-a-warning-for-india-s-west-coast-101622160033327.html
28-05-2021||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Covax, launched by WHO, the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness, and GAVI, the Vaccine Alliance, to ensure equitable access to coronavirus disease vaccines, is in a bind. Thus far, it has shipped 72 million shots, 166 million short of its May-end target. That’s a fraction of the around two billion vaccine doses shipped worldwide. By the end of June, Covax will be around 190 million doses short of its target, according to Covax chief Seth Berkley (as cited in an article in Science). The main reason for this is the facility’s dependence on Serum Institute of India (SII), which makes Covishield, its version of the AstraZeneca/Oxford vaccine, and which has had to deal with an exponential surge of infections in India, where 16 million of the approximately 27 million reported cases of Covid-19 (almost 60%) have been recorded since March 1. India’s flawed vaccine strategy – there seem to have been either delays or mistakes in demand estimation, capacity assessment, approvals, orders – isn’t hurting just it, but also the world, but enough has been written about that. The big question, both local and global, about vaccine supply is: What now?Also read: Govt pushes back on Covid-19 vaccine plan criticismThe same Science article directed me to a background paper for a March summit organised by Chatham House, Covax, and others, that pointed to the potential availability of up to 14 billion doses of the vaccine in the current year. That would mean another 12 billion doses till the end of the year. Even accounting for at least some manufacturers facing production issues of the sort we now know they can, and excluding vaccines for which reliable efficacy data isn’t available – let’s assume that knocks five billion doses off the number, taking it to seven billion – that’s substantial, although it is still nowhere close to the number the world needs. Then, it was always clear that not everyone in the world was going to get vaccinated this year, and the availability of a billion doses a month for the next seven months isn’t an insubstantial achievement. Some of these will no doubt find their way to India.India has already put out an estimate on the number of vaccines that will be available between August and December – a staggering 2.17 billion doses. Discounting for production issues, and excluding vaccines that are still in trials, this number, too, will likely come down significantly. The Ken, for instance, has estimated actual availability at 1.09 billion. Reuters reported that there could be a substantial shortfall, with SII alone producing 27% fewer doses of Covishield in that period than the 750 million listed by the government. And while Bharat Biotech claims to have raised its manufacturing capacity of Covaxin to 500 million doses a month from April, that is yet to reflect in the availability of vaccines (although things are expected to improve from July). Still, assuming rapid approvals, and the application of learnings from the first few phases of the vaccine drive, it is possible that the supply of vaccines between now and the end of the year will be around 1.5 billion doses.'Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19It’s important, however, as I’ve previously suggested in this column, that everyone know exactly how many vaccines are available to each state in a month -- from the Central quota, from the state quota (as determined by the Centre), and in private sector hospitals. It’s also important for the Centre and the states to stagger and prioritise vaccinations based on not just supplies, but other factors (vulnerability of the population could be one), and communicate this clearly. Once there is clarity on availability, prioritisation, and scheduling, much of the anxiety that is being seen in urban areas around access to vaccines should reduce. In rural areas, based on HT’s own reporting, it is clear that vaccine hesitancy is still a problem that needs to be addressed. At the current rate, it is clear that India will miss its target of completely vaccinating 300 million people by the end of July by at least 30% (perhaps more). The fact that this has happened despite an opening up of the vaccine drive, on April 1, and subsequently on May 1, is cause enough for a rethink in strategy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-what-you-need-to-know-today-101622157263895.html
28-05-2021||India||Govt pushes back on Covid-19 vaccine plan criticism||The government is in talks with Pfizer and is considering its demand for an indemnity from any adverse effects if its vaccine is rolled out in India, a top official said on Thursday as the government defended India’s vaccine procurement policy by separately releasing a document rebutting criticism that has poured in recently.In what it labelled as “myths”, the government said in a statement that it is “engaged continuously” with major vaccine manufacturers since mid-2020, but the companies had “their own priorities, game-plans and compulsions in allocating finite stocks”.“Multiple rounds of discussions have happened with Pfizer, J&J & Moderna. Government offered all assistance to have them supply and /or manufacture their vaccines in India. However, it is not that their vaccines are available in free supply. We need to understand that buying vaccines internationally is not similar to buying ‘off the shelf’ items,” said the Myths and Facts on India’s Vaccination Process document shared by the Press Information Bureau and re-shared by multiple ministers.The document, however, does not address the main criticism experts have made: India did not make any advance purchase orders – also known as advance marketing commitments (AMC) with any of the vaccine makers, including domestic manufacturers, till shortly before the roll-out.Later, at the government’s routine briefing on Covid-19, Niti Aayog member (health) Dr VK Paul confirmed that India was now in talks with Pfizer. “Yes, we are in talks with Pfizer, since they indicated they have certain amount of vaccines available in the coming months — possibly starting in July. We are looking at what their expectations from the government are and they are looking at what our expectations are,” he said.“They have requested indemnity from all the nations, including the country of origin, US. We are examining this request and we will take decision in the larger interest of people and on merits. It’s under discussion but there is no decision as of now,” he added.The government, in the document it released, also pointed to its decision to accelerate approvals for vaccines cleared by World Health Organization and regulatory agencies in the West and Japan to refute the “myth” that it had not approved vaccines available globally.In a subsequent point, it denied that it was not doing enough to improve vaccine production in the country: “The central government is playing the role of an effective facilitator to enable more companies to produce vaccines from the early 2020... Covaxin production by Bharat Biotech is being increased from under 1 crore (10 million) per month to 10 crore (100 million) per month by October. Additionally, three PSUs will together aim to produce up to 4cr (40 million) doses by December. With constant encouragement of the Government, Serum Institute is ramping up Covishield production of 6.5 crore (65 million) doses per month to 11 crore (110 million) doses per month.”The three public sector units are Maharashtra’s Haffkine Biopharmaceuticals, Indian Immunulogicals and Bharat Immunologicals and Biologicals Ltd. The Union government also said that compulsory licensing, a suggestion pushed by several opposition leaders, would not help since making requires “active partnership, training of human resources, sourcing of raw materials and highest levels of bio-safety labs”.The government also deflected criticism that it was not doing enough to vaccinate children by saying: “As of now, no country in the world is giving vaccines to children.” As users on social media pointed out that the US and Canada have begun vaccinating some groups of children, the PIB statement was amended to say: “It should read ‘no country in the world is giving vaccines to children under 12 years’”.According to the government’s own disclosure, the first orders were placed in the second week of January, when India committed to purchase 60 million doses from Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech. A second purchase order, for 100 million doses from the two manufacturers, was placed on March 12 and the latest, for 160 million doses, was placed on April 28 for supplies through July.The only AMCs that could have helped India were by Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, which struck a deal with Serum Institute of India for 200 million doses (of which 100 million were for India) and the World Health Organization led Covax Facility for supply of doses to 92 low and middle income countries, including India. India received 10 million doses under the Covax arrangement by April.A third deal that was for distribution in India, which will begin to translate into doses administered from this month, was struck by Dr Reddy’s to sell 100 million doses of Sputnik V in India. Latest reports indicate that Apollo Hospitals is among the first purchaser of these doses.In contrast, according to a report shared by science analytics company Airfinity on January 8, the US and European Union had secured commitments for close to 5 billion doses from various manufacturers, with Brazil (593 million), UK (507 million) and Latin American nations excluding Brazil (507 million) being the other key nations or groupings that secured large vaccine commitments by early 2021.The remainder of the document was a rebuttal to accusations that the Centre had left the states to fend for themselves on procuring vaccines – it cited the 45-plus free vaccination programme – and on not providing adequate supplies to states, to which it said that the allotment policy was transparent.“The behaviour of some of our leaders, who in spite of full knowledge of the facts on vaccine supply, appear on TV daily and create panic among the people is very unfortunate. This is not the time to play politics,” it said.Experts said India lost crucial time in procuring doses. “The amount of time India spent on deciding the priority population groups to be vaccinated, (and then suddenly opening it up for everyone), the same amount of time should have been given to supply procurement. How will supply be assured, since lack of enough attention there has created chaos,” said Dr Chandrakant Lahariya, vaccine and public health expert.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, was the latest chief minister to raise concerns over vaccine procurement, when he asked the Union government on Wednesday “why is the country not buying vaccines”. Previously, Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee, Maharashtra’s Uddhav Thackeray and Jharkhand’s Hemant Soren have questioned the policy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-pushes-back-on-vaccine-plan-criticism-101622156553945.html
28-05-2021||India||Standoff on IT rules as Twitter flags concerns||Twitter on Thursday raised concerns about “intimidation tactics by the police” and “core elements” of the new social media and intermediary guidelines, becoming the third internet giant to push back against the rules for digital companies framed by the government, which reacted strongly within hours to accuse Twitter of trying to “dictate terms to the world’s largest democracy”.The exchange was the latest in a snowballing controversy over new guidelines that direct companies such as Twitter, WhatsAapp, Facebook ,and Google to regulate content, appoint officers who will be liable for compliance, and adopt features such as tracing of messages and voluntary user verification.Twitter’s statement comes a day after WhatsApp challenged the Union electronics and technology ministry (Meity) guidelines in the Delhi high court. Before that, Facebook on Tuesday said there were “a few issues (that) need more engagement with the government”.On Thursday, Google’s chief executive Sundar Pichai, in a virtual press conference, said the company was committed to complying with local laws and to working with governments around the world, while adding that a free and open internet was “foundational”.The government defended the rules afresh as the pushback mounted. Union minister for electronics and information technology Ravi Shankar Prasad on Thursday said the guidelines were designed to empower citizens and prevent the “abuse and misuse” of social media.But Twitter saw it differently. “To keep our service available, we will strive to comply with applicable law in India. But, just as we do around the world, we will continue to be strictly guided by principles of transparency, a commitment to empowering every voice on the service, and protecting freedom of expression and privacy under the rule of law,” the company said.“Right now, we are concerned by recent events regarding our employees in India and the potential threat to freedom of expression for the people we serve,” it added, ostensibly referring to a visit by Delhi Police officials on May 25 to serve the company a notice in a separate matter. Twitter added that it plans “to advocate for changes to elements of these regulations that inhibit free, open public conversation”.Meity responded to Twitter’s stand with a statement, saying: “Lawmaking and policy formulation is the sole prerogative of the sovereign and Twitter is just a social media platform and it has no locus in dictating what India’s legal policy framework should be.”It added that the government “also wishes to emphatically assure that representatives of social media companies including Twitter are and will always remain safe in India and there is no threat to their personal safety and security,” before calling Twitter’s position as “totally baseless, false and an attempt to defame India to hide their own follies”.The controversial intermediary and digital platform guidelines came into complete effect on May 25, and major social media platforms such as Facebook, Twitter and WhatsApp, are yet to comply with all the clauses.In a petition to the Delhi high court, WhatsApp said the new rules are unconstitutional as they violate the fundamental right to privacy. The company in particular referred to the requirement to trace the originator of a message if ordered, something it said will not be possible without breaking the end-to-end encryption that keeps communications sure.Google’s Pichai struck a more conciliatory note.“It’s obviously early days and our local teams are very engaged... we always respect local laws in every country we operate in and we work constructively. We have clear transparency reports, when we comply with government requests, we highlight that in our transparency reports,” Pichai said, according to PTI.But he added that, as a company, Google has been “very clear about the values of a free and open internet and the benefits it brings and we advocate for it”, and said it respects legislative processes and in cases where it needs to push back, it does so.“It’s a balance we have struck around the world,” he said.Minister Prasad suggested that the changes were all about users. “The new rules require the social media companies to set up an India based grievance redressal officer, compliance officer and nodal officer so that millions of users of social media who have a grievance get a forum for its redressal,” Prasad posted on Koo, the app which has come up as the Indian alternative to Twitter.The government on Wednesday wrote to all social media companies to send details of their compliance officer, nodal contact person, resident grievance officer and physical contact address in India, as soon as possible. The deadline to do this ended on Tuesday.At least five industry bodies, that represent the interests of social media platforms, wrote to the ministry to seek an extension to implement the new social media and intermediary guidelines, with some seeking a yearlong extension and broad standard operating procedures ahead of the May 25 deadline, according to representations seen by Hindustan Times.The bodies were Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry (FICC), U.S.-India Business Council (USIBC), the US-India Strategic Partnership Forum (USISPF) and Asia Internet Coalition (AIC).The statement by Twitter also seemed to be in response to a visit by the Delhi Police to its offices on May 24 in order to serve notices relating to an inquiry into an alleged “toolkit” that defames the government. The police has asked the company to disclose evidence on the basis of which it has tagged as “manipulated media” posts made by several Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders.The posts show the toolkit document purportedly on a Congress letterhead, which the opposition party says has been forged. The position has also been taken by several fact-checkers.Delhi Police said Twitter’s position was “not only mendacious but designed to impede a lawful inquiry by a private enterprise”. “The entire conduct by Twitter Inc, including its Indian entity, in the last few days has been obfuscatory, diversionary and tendentious,” the police said, asking the company to cooperate in an inquiry into toolkit document.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/standoff-on-it-rules-as-twitter-flags-concerns-101622156070836.html
28-05-2021||India||Woman among 5 arrested in Bengaluru for torture and rape in viral video||Bengaluru: Five people were arrested for allegedly raping a woman, torturing her and recording the assault, Bengaluru police said late on Thursday evening. The arrests were made hours after Assam Police shared visuals from a video circulating on social media to trace the accused. Union minister Kiren Rijiju followed up, asking the police of all states and Union territories to chip in.The five - one of them is a woman - were arrested on the basis of leads on the accused by the Assam police.I appeal the citizens to help the Police of all the States and Union Territories🙏 https://t.co/prLE7aydGP“Based on a video clip, wherein one woman was subjected to physical abuse and tortured by a group of people, five culprits including a woman, visible in the clip were immediately traced and secured by Bengaluru City Police,” a statement by Bengaluru Police said.“On the basis of the contents of the video clip and facts as disclosed during preliminary interrogation of the secured persons, a case of rape, assault and under other relevant provisions of law has been registered against the accused in Ramamurthy Nagar Police Station,” the statement added.Police believe that both the accused and victim were residents of Bangladesh.“As per the information revealed so far, all of them are part of the same group and believed to be from Bangladesh. Due to financial disputes, the culprits brutalized the victim, who is also said to be a Bangladeshi, brought to India for human trafficking. The investigation is being carried out in full earnestness under the close supervision of senior officers,” Kamal Pant, Bengaluru police commissioner, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-among-5-arrested-in-bengaluru-for-torture-and-rape-in-viral-video-101622147224637.html
28-05-2021||India||IAF chief Bhadauria flies MiG-21 Bison fighter to pay tribute to fallen pilot||Six days after an Indian Air Force pilot was killed in a MiG-21 crash in Punjab, IAF chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria on Thursday visited the fighter squadron based at Suratgarh in Rajasthan and flew a MiG-21 Bison fighter along with the squadron’s commanding officer as a tribute to the fallen pilot, officials said on Thursday.Squadron Leader Abhinav Chaudhary’s MiG-21 Bison crashed near Moga on May 21. This was the third Bison crash this year.“Panthers (the squadron) paid tribute to Sqn Ldr Abhinav Chaudhary by flying a ‘Missing Man’ formation, as they recommenced their op (operational) flying. The senior most serving ‘Panther’, CAS (Chief of Air Staff) flew a Bison & joined the CO in the aerial tribute. CAS later interacted with aircrew & technicians of the base,” the IAF said.2/2 pic.twitter.com/glyUfB96TYThe time-honoured missing man formation involves three aircraft where one slot is kept vacant in memory of the fallen pilot.Also Read: Moga villagers to install statue of IAF pilot who died in MIG crashThe MiG-21 Bis (an upgraded variant of the plane flown for the first time in 1976) was further upgraded to MiG-21 Bison in India in 2000.IAF operates four squadrons of MiG-21 Bison aircraft — a squadron has 16 to 18 fighter jets. The last of these upgraded MiG-21s are set to be phased out in the next three to four years. The air force got its first single-engine MiG-21 in 1963, and it progressively inducted 874 variants of the Soviet-origin supersonic fighters to bolster its combat potential.Of the 874 MiG-21 variants inducted by the IAF, more than 60% were licence-produced in India.More than 400 MiG-21s have been involved in accidents that have claimed the lives of more than 200 pilots during the last six decades, earning the fighters ominous epithets such as “Flying Coffin” and “Widow Maker”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-chief-bhadauria-flies-a-mig-21-bison-fighter-to-pay-tribute-to-fallen-pilot-101622145783231.html
28-05-2021||India||Now, IMA lodges police complaint against Ramdev||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Thursday lodged a police complaint against yoga guru Ramdev, seeking an FIR against him under the Epidemic Diseases Act, the Disaster Management Act, and other provisions of the Indian Penal Code, for allegedly making false claims and trying to profit during a pandemic.In a 14-page complaint to the IP Estate police station, the association of doctors has alleged that Ramdev and his associates have been deliberately casting doubts and spreading misinformation about allopathic treatments in order to sell unproven and unapproved drugs such as Coronil and Swasari. “It is stated that the accused being a businessman, in order to take advantage of the present situation and his large public following, is wilfully and deliberately advancing dishonest representations… about allopathy and modern medicine … and to swindle them into parting with their monies by taking Swami Ramdev’s unapproved and dubious drugs,” said the complaint. IMA previously demanded an apology from Ramdev over his remarks on allopathic medicine, calling it a “stupid science”. He withdrew his statements after receiving a strong-worded letter from Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan, who called his remarks “inappropriate”.In its complaint, the doctors’ body said that Ramdev’s statements “tantamount to dishonest representation being issued with ulterior motive”.In another video, the IMA said, the yoga guru is seen stating that 10,000 doctors have died despite being vaccinated; IMA stated that so far 753 doctors died in the first wave of the pandemic when vaccines weren’t available and 513 in the second wave, many of whom hadn’t received the shot. The IMA states that such claims make it difficult for the frontline workers to carry our vaccination drive, frustrating the government’s efforts. The IMA wrote to the Prime Minister on Wednesday asking him to book Ramdev under sedition charges. A R1,000 crore defamation suit was also filed by IMA-Uttarakhand. A protest was organised by doctors from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Delhi. An complaint to lodge FIR had previously been sent by the Delhi Medical Association. Ramdev had earlier retracted his statement on allopathy after a rap from union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan, who was present at the relaunching ceremony of coronil. The yoga guru, however, later rebuked medical professionals with 25 questions on whether they have cure for disease such as diabetes and heart conditions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/now-ima-lodges-police-complaint-against-ramdev-101622145002499.html
28-05-2021||India||PM takes stock of Yaas damage, may conduct aerial survey today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday chaired a meeting to assess the impact of Cyclone Yaas and take stock of the relief work being done in Odisha and West Bengal, said a statement released by the Prime Minister’s Office. He is likely to do an aerial survey of the affected areas in the two states on Friday.At the meeting, Modi advised the various central and state agencies to ensure that normal life is restored in the affected areas at the earliest. Officials present at the meeting told the PM that 106 teams of National Disaster Response Force were deployed — 46 each in both states — that rescued more than a thousand people and removed more than 2,500 trees/poles that had toppled and blocked roads. The army and the coast guard also rescued marooned people, while the navy and air force were on the alert.The cyclone didn’t inflict any major damage except causing a huge amount of rain in Mayurbhanj, Keonjhar, Balasore and Bhadrak districts in Odisha. The state government is yet to assess any damage caused by rain.Special relief commissioner Pradip Jena said that people in Odisha’s low-lying areas of Bhadrak and Jajpur districts were evacuated due to the expected flooding of the Baitarani river. “Had this cyclone hit the State during monsoon, it would have created a dangerous flood situation. But since it is summer, rivers and canals are dry and the soil is dry, so we are not expecting floods anywhere except for a probable medium-level flood situation in the Baitarani river,” said Jena, adding that the river has crossed the danger level at Anandpur and Akhuapada but no village has been affected by it.The state’s toll stood at 3, Jena said, adding that the cyclone has now moved out of Odisha.Earlier in the day, Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik directed that power supply be restored to at least 80% of affected consumers in the next 24 hours. He also announced seven-day relief for all families of 128 marooned villages. He congratulated all the panchayat representatives, district administrations, community organisations, and the police for their excellent work in evacuation.Elsewhere in West Bengal, chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday announced a preliminary package of ₹1,000 crore for immediate relief work while claiming that the damage in the state was to the tune of ₹15,000 crore. “Till now we have assessed the damage to be around ₹15,000 crore. This is a very preliminary assessment. Even on Thursday mini tornadoes and gales were reported from some districts... Two people were killed in lightning strikes. All these would add up,” said Banerjee.The cyclone affected more than one million people in Jharkhand, including two deaths in Ranchi, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-takes-stock-of-yaas-damage-may-conduct-aerial-survey-today-101622144943667.html
28-05-2021||India||2015 Telangana ‘cash-for-vote’ scam: ED submits charge sheet against state Cong chief||Hyderabad The Enforcement Directorate on Thursday filed a charge sheet against Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee working president and Malkajgiri MP A Revanth Reddy as the prime accused on the charges of money laundering in the 2015 alleged cash-for-vote scam in Telangana. In its charge-sheet in the Metropolitan Magistrate Court at Nampally in Hyderabad, the ED also named Telangana Rashtra Samithi MLA Sandra Venkata Veeraiah, Revanth Reddy’s associate R Udaya Simha, former TDP legislative council member Vem Narendar Reddy’s son Vem Krishna Keertan Reddy, mediator Bishop Sebastian and others. The ED’s charge sheet was based on the First Information Report (FIR) registered by the Anti-Corruption Bureau of Telangana, which later filed its own charge sheet in the ACB court in July, 2015. The agency claimed its probe has established that the accused “committed the scheduled offence as well as the offence of money laundering by dealing with the bribe money which is nothing but proceeds of crime as per the PMLA.””Thus, the ED has filed a prosecution complaint against the above named accused persons with a prayer to hold a trial for the offence of money laundering,” it said.The ACB caught Revanth Reddy, red-handed on May 31, 2015, while paying ₹50 lakh as an advance to nominated Anglo Indian MLA Elvis Stephenson for voting in favour of TDP candidate Vem Narender Reddy in the Telangana legislative council elections held on June 1, 2015. Revanth Reddy was then a TDP lawmaker in Telangana assembly. He joined the Congress party in 2018 and has later become the working president of the PCC. Stephenson, in his complaint to the ACB, alleged that Revanth Reddy had promised to pay another ₹1.5 crore after the voting, besides a flight ticket to leave the country. Besides, the ACB also laid hands on a recorded telephonic conversation that purportedly took place between the Anglo-Indian MLA and TDP president N Chandrababu Naidu, who was then Andhra Pradesh chief minister. The forensic experts also confirmed that the voice was that of Naidu. However, the ACB and the ED, in their charge sheets, did not name Naidu as an accused in the case, as they could not get evidences to prove that the money was sent to Stevenson at the behest of Naidu. The ACB booked Revanth Reddy and others under the Prevention of Corruption Act and section 120B (criminal conspiracy) of IPC. The ACB questioned 39 witnesses during the investigation. Revanth Reddy and the other accused did not respond to calls, till the time of going to press.(with PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2015-telangana-cash-for-vote-scam-ed-submits-charge-sheet-against-state-cong-chief-101622142481263.html
28-05-2021||India||Debate over birthplace of Hanuman ends in stalemate||Hyderabad: The face-off between Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) and Sri Hanumad Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust of Karnataka to resolve the controversy over the birthplace of Hindi god Hanuman ended in a stalemate on Thursday. The debate was held between the experts committee of TTD headed by National Sanskrit University vice-chancellor V Muralidhar Sharma and Hanumad Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust founder Swamy Govindananda Saraswati Swamy at the university premises in Tirupati. After a heated argument between the two sides, Govindananda Saraswati walked out of the meeting. He told reporters that there was no point in having discussions over the birthplace of Lord Hanuman after several centuries, when Valmiki Ramayana clearly mentions that he was born in Kishkindha on the banks of Pampa Kshetra (Tungabhadra river near Hampi). Stating that the experts committee constituted by the TTD on the issue had no authority to decide the birthplace of Hanuman, Govindananda Saraswati said such sensitive issues should be decided by Hindu religious seers such as the Shankaracharyas, Madhwacharyas and Jeeyar Swamijis. He alleged that the arguments of the TTD were misleading the common people. “ We cannot depend on the mythology but have to go by Ramayana. Did the experts committee ever come to Kishkindha to examine the evidences?” Govindananda asked. Speaking to reporters separately, Muralidhar Sharma said various ancient scriptures including Puranas and copper plate inscriptions clearly indicated that Tirumala, also known as Anjanadri, was the birth place of Lord Hanuman. He strongly refuted the claims made by Govindananda Saraswati that Lord Hanuman was born at Anjanahalli on the banks of river Pampa near Hampi in Karnataka. “He did not come out with any evidences to prove his claim,” Sharma said. TTD scholar Kuppa Vishwanatha Sharma, who moderated the debate, declared that the findings of TTD Pundita Parishad (experts committee) were concrete and that the arguments of Hampi Swamy held no substance. On April 13, coinciding with the Ugadi festival, TTD came out with a booklet, claiming that Anjanadri in Tirumala was the birthplace of Hanuman. The claim was based on a report submitted by an eight-member expert committee headed by Muralidhar Sharma, constituted in December 2020. Sri Hanumad Janma Bhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust of Karnataka, however, strongly protested the claims and dashed off a six-page strongly worded letter to TTD in the first week of May. Trust founder Govindananda Saraswati said TTD’s claim was “daiva droham” (betrayal of god). Muralidhar Sharma said that the experts committee of the TTD had done extensive research for four months and gathered mythological, literary, archaeological and geographical evidence to come to the conclusion that Tirumala, also mentioned as Anjanadri in ancient scriptures, was the birthplace of Hanuman. Reacting on the debate, senior Bharatiya Janata Party leader and former TTD trust board member G Bhanuprakash Reddy said it would be better if the issue were left to the Hindu seers like Shankaracharyas and Jeeyars to decide. “The debate is totally unwarranted.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/debate-over-birthplace-of-hanuman-ends-in-stalemate-101622142424670.html
28-05-2021||India||8 Asiatic lions recover from Covid at Hyderabad zoo||Hyderabad: Eight Asiatic lions at Hyderabad’s Nehru Zoological Park (NZP), which tested positive for Sars-Cov-2 (Covid-19) in the last week of April, have now completely recovered from the infection, zoo officials said on Thursday. NZP curator V V L Subhadra Devi confirmed to HT that all the eight lions tested negative for the virus and were completely cured. The lions are now back in their enclosures in the zoo park. On April 24, the zoo authorities noticed that these eight lions were suffering from mild respiratory distress. Based on the guidelines of the Central Zoo Authority, their nasal and oral discharge samples were collected and sent to the laboratory for Conservation of Endangered Species at CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (LaCONES-CCMB). “The samples were tested using RT-PCR, and were found positive for coronavirus. The CCMB analysed the genomes of coronavirus samples from these lions, and did not find those to be a variant of concern. The source of infection has not been found yet,” a CCMB spokesman said. Soon after they tested positive, the lions were isolated from other animals and kept under due care and necessary treatment. “They responded well to the treatment and showed signs of recovery,” a zoo official said. After two weeks of treatment, no symptoms of the virus was found in them. Yet, the authorities continued to keep them in isolation for a couple of weeks more, before testing them for the virus, which came negative. The zoo has been closed for public since May 2, following an advisory from the ministry of environment forests and climate change, New Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8-asiatic-lions-recover-from-covid-at-hyderabad-zoo-101622142361135.html
28-05-2021||India||YSR govt perpetrating state terrorism against Oppn, says TDP chief||Hyderabad: Telugu Desam Party (TDP) president and former Andhra Pradesh chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu on Thursday accused the Jagan Mohan Reddy government of perpetrating “state terrorism” against opposition party leaders and denying citizens their fundamental rights. “The ruling YSR Congress party, with the support of the police and official machinery, has been stifling the voice of all sections of the people. The state government has become so intolerant that it is filing false cases and making house arrests of TDP leaders,” Naidu said during his inaugural address of the two-day Mahanadu, the party’s annual conclave which is being held virtually in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Naidu said the Jagan government was resorting to state terrorism to cover up its undemocratic, autocratic and authoritarian activities aimed at denying civil liberties and fundamental rights to the people. “Not just the TDP leaders, any dissenting voice from the common people is also being suppressed,” he alleged. “The unchecked suppression has caused a democratic backsliding in the past two years. This decline has reached such a point where the mandal and zilla parishad elections were held in violation of the Supreme Court order,” he added. Under the YSRCP regime, the TDP chief alleged, attacks on opposition leaders were being launched even before the start of the elections. Nominations were not allowed to be filed and even if they were filed, they were declared invalid, he pointed out. The former chief minister said it was a difficult time for the party considering how the party activists and leaders were being put to physical, psychological and financial pain. “But everybody should know how those violating all laws and norms would eventually face much greater punishment,” he said. Naidu recalled how the Jagan government illegally arrested several TDP leaders like K Atchannaidu, Kollu Ravindra, Chintamaneni Prabhakar, J C Prabhakar Reddy, J C Asmith Reddy, Dhulipalla Narendra, Ramakrishna Reddy, B C Janardhan Reddy and even the YSRCP’s own rebel MP K Raghurama Raju. “Serious sections were being filed to make the leaders go to jail without bail. Some sections being slapped could give one above seven years’ of imprisonment,” he said. Naidu added that as a responsible opposition party, the TDP would continue to fight against these atrocities. “The police and the government, who were violating the laws, would eventually be answerable to the people,” he said.Reacting to Naidu’s remarks, senior YSR Congress party leader and chief whip G Srikanth Reddy said there was no need for the Jagan government to target any individual or resort to witch-hunting. “Chandrababu Naidu himself is a criminal and he is trying to protect those who indulged in criminal activities. The government is only enforcing the law which will take its own course,” Reddy said. It is for the second consecutive year that the TDP is holding its prestigious Mahanadu in digital mode in view of the onset of the second wave of coronavirus pandemic. On the first day of the event, the Mahanadu adopted a resolution criticising the inept handling of the Covid-19 situation in Andhra Pradesh by the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ysr-govt-perpetrating-state-terrorism-against-oppn-says-tdp-chief-101622142301022.html
28-05-2021||India||Lease out vaccine unit in TN to state govt, Stalin asks PM||Chennai: At a time when the country is facing shortage of the Covid-19 vaccines, chief minister MK Stalin on Thursday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to hand over the Centre-owned vaccine manufacturing unit at Chengalpattu to Tamil Nadu government on the lease to commence vaccine production. In his letter to the prime minister, Stalin said the central government-owned Integrated Vaccine Complex-HLL Biotech Limited at Chengalpattu, about 63 km from Chennai, was lying unutilised. “Mass vaccination is the most potent weapon available to us in this fight and hence it is absolutely necessary that we must ramp up domestic vaccine manufacturing capacity,” Stalin said, adding it would be in sync with Modi’s vision of ‘self-sufficient India’. The Chengalpattu facility was established in 2012 and work is in the final stages of completion. The facility has presently released a tender, which closes on May 31, for private bidders to operate. The state has assured that it will look for a private partner to commence vaccine production at the earliest. Stalin pointed out in his letter that the Centre has invested around ₹700 crore for the Integrated Vaccine Complex (IVC), which is almost complete but has been lying unutilised for want of additional funds. “The recent attempt to find a private partner to run the IVC has also not borne fruit since there were no bidders for it,” Stalin said in his letter. “I am very keen that this modern facility must be made functional immediately, in the interest of our state as well as our nation,” he added. Stating that this would enhance the nation’s vaccine production capacity, Stalin proposed that assets of the IVC may be handed over to the state on lease without any past liabilities and full operational freedom. “A suitable financial arrangement for the central government to recover a part of its investment can be subsequently worked out, after the commencement of operations,” Stalin said. Meanwhile, Tamil Nadu industries minister Thangam Thennarasu and DMK’s parliamentary party leader TR Baalu on Thursday met Union industries minister Piyush Goyal and minister of state, chemical and fertilisers, Mansukh Mandaviya, regarding the issue. “The truth is that the Centre hasn’t been able to allocate enough vaccines for Tamil Nadu,” Baalu told reporters in Delhi. “It (the unit) requires an additional investment of ₹300 crore to be complete.” He added that the Centre has said it would get back to Tamil Nadu government on the matter in about a week. On April 23, former chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami had also written to Modi urging him to bring this facility to working condition at the earliest, in order to augment the production of Covid-19 vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lease-out-vaccine-unit-in-tn-to-state-govt-stalin-asks-pm-101622142241091.html
28-05-2021||India||Key 1.5°C warming mark likely within 5 years||There is a 40% chance that the annual average global temperature will be 1.5 degrees Celsius higher than pre-industrial levels – a ceiling scientists have warned needs to be avoided to prevent devastating impacts of the climate crisis – in the next five years, the World Meteorological Organisation (WMO) said in a report on Thursday.The figure is significant because most global leaders committed to taking actions that would limit global warming to 1.5°C and well below 2°C by the end of the century while signing the Paris Agreement in 2015.The findings of the report prompted Petteri Taalas, the WMO secretary general, to warn that the world was getting “measurably and inexorably” closer to the dangerous threshold. He underlined it was another wake-up call that the world needed to fast-track commitments to slash greenhouse gas emissions and achieve carbon neutrality.The 2015 Paris Climate Accord set the long-term 1.5°C warming threshold. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), two years later, warned that a breach of the threshold will mark a menacing milestone in the planet’s warming. A 2018 IPCC report said limiting global warming below 1.5°C would require “rapid and far-reaching” transitions in all sectors. The global net human-caused carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions need to fall by about 45% from 2010 levels by 2030, reaching net zero around 2050, to avoid the ceiling.The Paris accord seeks to limit global warming to well below 2, preferably to 1.5°C, compared to pre-industrial levels.Every year from 2021 through 2025 is likely to be at least 1°C warmer, according to the study. The year 2016 has so far been the warmest. From 2021-2025, high latitude regions and the Sahel, the transition in Africa between the Sahara and the Sudanian savanna, are likely to be wetter, according to the report. There is an increased chance of more tropical cyclones in the Atlantic compared to the 1981-2010 average.Taalas underlined these are more than just statistics and increasing temperatures mean more melting ice, higher sea levels, more heatwaves and other extreme weather, and greater impact on food security, health, environment, and sustainable development.“This study shows – with a high level of scientific skill – that we are getting measurably and inexorably closer to the lower target of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change,” Taalas said.Warming of the north Indian Ocean during the next five years, particularly the Arabian Sea, could make India even more vulnerable to deadly cyclones. Maps on surface temperature anomalies compared to 1981-2010 period show the Arabian Sea could be 0.5°-1°C warmer than the 29-year period.“Now almost every year and every month are warmer than the earlier ones. 2020 was one of the warmest years. However, global warming does not stop at the global average temperature that we are highlighting here. I would bring the focus to the rapid warming in the ocean that is throwing in extreme weather events in recent decades. More than 93% of the additional heat from global warming is absorbed by the oceans. Among the oceans, some regions are warming quite rapidly. The long-term surface warming recorded in the western Indian Ocean region is in the range of 1.2°-1.4°C. This has a huge impact on the monsoon and severe weather events. The Arabian Sea (part of the western Indian Ocean) has become a warm pool that is now hosting more intense cyclones. Warmer ocean conditions are also resulting in the rapid intensification of cyclones,” said Roxy Mathew Koll, a climate scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology.India’s average temperature has risen by around 0.7°C during 1901-2018. But sea surface temperature (SST) of the tropical Indian Ocean has risen by 1°C on average during 1951–2015, markedly higher than the global average SST warming of 0.7°C, over the same period according to “Assessment of Climate Change over the Indian Region”, a report of the ministry of earth sciences.Last year was one of the three warmest years on record. The six years since 2015 have been the warmest on record. 2011-2020 was the warmest decade on record, the report highlighted. The latest WMO report said a decrease in the annual growth rate of CO2 concentration due to the Covid-19 lockdown will be practically indistinguishable.More than 75% of Indian districts are hot spots for extreme climate events. On the east coast, more than 90% of districts are hot spots for cyclones, floods, droughts and their associated events; these districts are home to over 250 million people, according to an analysis by the Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/key-1-5-c-warming-mark-likely-within-5-years-101622142003878.html
28-05-2021||India||7 years of NDA: Report to list govt’s achievements||The official report to mark seven years of the NDA government, which will be published by the Press Information Bureau, describes efforts by the government and especially Prime Minister Narendra Modi on three aspects, reforms, welfare, and the management of the coronavirus disease pandemic. HT has reviewed a draft of the report, compiled on the basis of inputs from various departments. Titled “Firm resolve for transformational changes: 7 years of good governance”, the 188-page document has 11 sections including those titled: Sabka saath, sabka vikas, sabka vishwas; women power; Swachh Bharat; minimum government maximum governance; emerging world power; new India; and united India against Covid.The ruling dispensation has already taken a call not to organise any public function on the anniversary on account of the pandemic. Instead, the Bharatiya Janata Party has set a target of covering 100,000 villages and organising 50,000 blood donation camps across the country for its cadre on May 30. Ministers have been asked to visit at least two villages or interact with people through video. The draft report supports the three farm laws passed on September, which the government believes will make for more efficient and open agricultural markets, create new opportunities for farmers, and reduce the influence of intermediaries. Farm groups have been protesting against the laws since November. The annual report dedicated a page each to the farm laws and quotes Prime Minister Modi as saying: “Now potato growers, mango farmers or tomato cultivators can negotiate with chips, juice or sauce companies at the time of sowing and it will help them avoid any loss in future.” In the 17-page section on Covid-19, the draft says: “The primary test for any good government is how its arrangements to handle a disaster. In such situations, a strong and sensitive leadership that respects scientists and experts is required.”India was feted for its handling of the disease during the first wave, but has come in for criticism from several quarters for its handling of the second wave of infections and for a faltering vaccine drive. The government has repeatedly insisted it is increasing the supply of vaccines and the report says that the capacity of Bharat Biotech’s indigenous vaccine, developed in partnership with the Indian Council of Medical research (ICMR), will grow to 100 million doses per month by December. The draft says Prime Minister Narendra Modi is “playing a leading role” and “taking many decisive steps” to tackle the Covid19 pandemic. It lists the PM’s interventions including approval for purchase of oxygen concentrators and other materials from the PM-Cares fund, his virtual meetings with chief ministers to push for more testing and vaccination sites, and his engagements with various stakeholders including doctors and scientists. According to government officials who asked not to be named, the report will be published online. Among some of the schemes that have come in for special mention are the Udan or regional connectivity scheme. While these were suspended during last year’s lockdown, they have been restored in phases and by February, 315 routes were operational. The report also mentions the increase in the FDI cap in defence through the automatic route to 74% from 49%, a move aimed at boosting local manufacture of defence equipment. It also focuses on the Jal Jeevan mission which has, since June 2020, provided almost 4.5 million new water connections.Criticised for its handling of the migrant worker crisis in 2020 -- after the lockdown, many of them, rendered jobless and homeless chose to walk back home in the absence of any other forms of transport -- the government last year announced the creation of rental accommodation for them near their place of work. These will be available by 2022, the draft said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7-years-of-nda-report-to-list-govt-s-achievements-101622142003031.html
28-05-2021||India||India pushes to get Choksi repatriated from the Caribbean||Government investigators on Thursday pushed to bring back fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi, who was captured in Dominica two days after mysteriously vanishing from Antigua & Barbuda, even as the businessman’s lawyers alleged he was abducted and deportation to India was not legally permitted. Indian-born Choksi, who fled the country in 2018 after being charged in the ₹13,578 Punjab National Bank cheating case, was apprehended by the Criminal Investigation Division (CID) in the Caribbean island of Dominica on Tuesday night on the basis of an Interpol “yellow notice”. He had gone missing in Antigua on Sunday evening, roughly 101 nautical miles away. The Indian government was coordinating with both Dominica and Antigua & Barbuda to bring Choksi back, considering he was currently located illegally in a jurisdiction from where he could be repatriated on the basis of the Interpol red notice, people familiar with developments said. A senior Indian investigator agreed that India now had better chances to bring Choksi back. “We are in touch with authorities in Dominica to get him repatriated to India. He is not a citizen there so he can be deported quickly,” he said on condition of anonymity.In Antigua, PM Gaston Browne told reporters that Choksi should be declared persona non grata and sent to India instead of Antigua & Barbuda, where he has legal and constitution protection as a citizen. “We asked them (Dominica) not to repatriate him to Antigua. He needs to return to India where he can face the criminal charges levelled against him”, Browne told journalists. Browne added that Choksi had made a monumental error by fleeing to Dominica. However, acting police chief of Dominica Lincoln Corbette hinted that he may not be sent back to India. “Mehul Choksi is in Dominica only and he will be sent back to Antigua when everything is ascertained,” he said. A statement issued by Dominica on Thursday also suggested that Choksi may be repatriated to Antigua. The statement, issued by Dominica’s ministry of national security and home affairs, while calling Choksi as an “Indian citizen”, confirmed he has been detained by law enforcement for illegal entry into Dominica. It said the ministry was in communication with the authorities of Antigua & Barbuda to ascertain some facts “including the status of his Antiguan citizenship”. “Once the information is provided by the Antigua authorities, possible arrangements will be made for Mr Mehul Choksi to be repatriated to Antigua,” the statement added. Choksi’s lawyers contended that repatriation to India may be legally complicated, especially because India doesn’t have an extradition treaty with Dominica and Choksi currently holds Antiguan citizenship. His lawyer in Dominica – Wayne Marsh – alleged on local radio that the 62-year-old businessman was abducted at Jolly Harbour in Antigua and brought to Dominica by police officers from India and Dominica on Sunday itself. He further alleged that Choksi was tortured and kept like a prisoner. “We were denied access to Mr Choksi yesterday. Luckily, this morning, I met him and noticed that he was severely beaten, his eyes were swollen, and he had several marks… apparently he was burnt by some electrical device. He reports to me that he was abducted at Jolly Harbour and brought to Dominica, by persons who he believes to be Indian and Antiguan police in a vessel which he describes to be 60 to 70 feet…,” Marsh said to a local FM channel in Roseau. “Mr Choksi is entitled to legal representation, whether he is in Antigua or in Dominica. The facts are that Mr Choksi is an Antiguan citizen. He is not an Indian citizen,” he added. Choksi’s lawyer in New Delhi Vijay Aggarwal said they had filed a habeas corpus petition in Dominica and also alleged lack of access to the businessman and deprivation of constitutional rights to legal assistance. “My understanding is that his reaching Dominica is not voluntary. So, I find something fishy that nobody seems to be at the moment looking into the fact that how exactly he reached Dominica,” he said. Citing Section 9 of the Indian Citizenship Act, Aggarwal said Choksi could only be deported to Antigua. “The moment Mehul Choksi acquired the citizenship of Antigua, he ceased to be a citizen of India. Hence legally as per the Immigration and Passport Act, Section 17 and 23, he can be deported only to Antigua,” Aggarwal said in a statement. India has cordial relations with the Commonwealth of Dominica, which has population of around 72,000. As part of the Vaccine Maitri initiative, India donated 35,000 doses to Dominica in February this year. India exports mainly pharmaceutical products, ready-made garments, textiles and home furnishings, and food products to Dominica, while the latter exports mainly scrap metals. Bilateral trade between India and Dominica during 2017-18 amounted to US$2.38 million. The Indian government also provided financial support of US$ 1 lakh as immediate relief and granted US$ 1 million for infrastructure reconstruction in Dominica under the India UNDP Fund in the aftermath of Hurricane Maria in 2017. On several occasions in the past, the Antiguan government has said that it was ready to extradite Choksi to India, for which the process is already on. His extradition case as well as revocation of citizenship by Antigua is currently being pursued in a court there, which he has challenged.Choksi, who sought refuge in Antigua after allegedly cheating PNB of ₹13,578 crore along with his nephew Nirav Modi, and fleeing India in 2018, left his home on Sunday to go for dinner at a well-known restaurant in the southern part of the island and was never seen again. His car was found in Jolly Harbour, a popular nightspot in the 280 sq km island with a population of less than 100,000 people||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-pushes-to-get-choksi-repatriated-from-the-caribbean-101622142001021.html
28-05-2021||India||Street vendors slam K’taka govt’s ₹2k aid per vendor||Bengaluru: With Karnataka government extending the lockdown by two more weeks, the street vendors in Bengaluru have been left in the lurch. The lockdown will be in place till June 7. Even though the government has allowed them to operate between 6 am to 10 am, many vendors say that unlike the big shops they are unable to cope with the losses. While they had pinned their hopes on the economic package announced by the government on May 19, the meager allocation of ₹2,000 per vendor has come as a disappointment for many of them. Other than financial problems, many vendors have been complaining of police harassment and loss of property due to police action. Struggling to meet ends during the lockdown and facing harassment, several street vendor unions in Bengaluru have come together to demand a change in the current rules. “In the present circumstances, a lockdown has been announced yet again. Several street vendors have succumbed to Covid-19. They have been put in a position where they have to choose between safeguarding their health and livelihood,” read a statement issued by the consortium of street vendor unions on Wednesday. “Despite the state government declaring street vending as an essential service and that fruits, vegetables and flower vending was permitted, the police arbitrarily thrashed street vendors and verbally abused them. The same was reported all over the media and we bear testament to it,” the statement added. A member of the union added that while the lockdown has been imposed due to the failures of the government, street vendors have been forced to bear the brunt. “Politicians and bureaucrats are not impacted as they earn a salary and maybe they have other perks as well. However, we are the ones being punished. Even though we are ready to earn our livelihoods, we have been put under lockdown in our homes,” S Babu, president of Bangalore Jilla Beedi Vyapari Sanghataneegala Okkuta. “We have been working very hard to earn an income for the past one year. To add insult to injury, on May 19 the Karnataka government announced financial assistance of Rs. 2,000. This is absolutely inhuman and undignified and displays ignorance of the government towards the plight of the street vendors. We have a right to live and the same must be protected. We are ready to work, and the restrictions on our work must be lifted. Otherwise, we must be paid ₹15,000 a month as financial assistance,” he added. Syed Zameer of Shivajinagar Street Vendors Union said the Karnataka government must stop spending on expenditures and must support street vendors by providing financial assistance of Rs. 15,000, while Vanaja, a street vendor in Gandhi Bazaar also urged the government to bring in a moratorium on all loans and rents. Various street vendors unions in the city have also prepared a memorandum, which has been sent to the government. In the memorandum, the vendors have raised demands such as extending the timings for vending fruits and vegetables till 2 pm, instruction to police not to harass street vendors, financial assistance of ₹15,000 to every street vendor, government waiver on the interest of loans taken from banks and private parties and moratorium on rent-payment. They also demanded that a Kerala model of Public Distribution System (PDS) must be adopted, and rice, dal, grams and cooking oil must be provided to poor street vendors. They have also sought that street vendors must be provided free vaccination near markets and at their homes. A senior BBMP official said that they have proposed the government to allow the street vendors to operate till 6 pm like the milk booths and government-run vegetable shops and that a decision will be out soon. “The proposal is in consideration,” said the senior BBMP official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/street-vendors-slam-k-taka-govt-s-2k-aid-per-vendor-101622141941088.html
28-05-2021||India||Yediyurappa downplays infighting talks, says focus on Covid||BengaluruAs murmurs of leadership change grow loud in Karnataka, chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Thursday said his only priority was to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic and that he had no reason to indulge in other matters. “I only have Covid in front of me. To control it and people’s welfare is my only priority. If someone went to someplace, they have been sent back with an answer,” Yediyurappa told reporters in Bengaluru on Thursday.The statement came a day after at least two Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders, including one minister, went to Delhi, purportedly to meet the party top brass in connection with the possibility of a change in leadership in the state.The clamour of an imminent leadership change in Karnataka has grown louder with increasing instances of conflict within the BJP and the government led by Yediyurappa.At least two BJP legislators aware of the developments indicated a possible change post the calming of the pandemic, which continues to keep Karnataka in its firm and tightening grip.The recent defeat in Maski assembly bypoll and wafer-thin margin of victory in Belagavi Lok Sabha by-election has also gone against the 78-year-old chief minister.CP Yogeshwara, member of the Karnataka legislative council and minister for tourism, ecology and environment, on Thursday said he went to Delhi “for personal reasons”.Yogeshwara was one of the two leaders who rushed to Delhi on Tuesday, fueling speculation of possible leadership changes in the party.“I keep going to Delhi and can’t say everything to the media. I will share more in the coming days,” Yogeshwara told reporters in Bengaluru on Thursday.He added that he went to Delhi to convey his own problems.He, however, reiterated that the BJP in Karnataka was working like a coalition government with the other two political parties--apparent reference to Congress and Janata Dal (Secular)--appeared to be in power.“The day I became an MLC, I said it does not appear as a pure BJP government. It appears to be a three-party government that is taking shape,” he said.He added that he would not allow anyone else to wield power in his administrative jurisdiction. Yogeshwara lost his seat against HD Kumaraswamy of the JD(S) in Channapatna in 2018 assembly elections. He, however, was able to secure a seat in the legislature, apparently rewarded for his role in securing the support of the 17 turncoat legislators who defected to the BJP, which led to the collapse of the Kumaraswamy-led JD(S)-Congress coalition government in the state.Meanwhile, other ministers in the BJP tried to rally behind Yediyurappa, dismissing any speculation of a leadership change.MP Renukacharya, BJP legislator from Honnali and political secretary to the chief minister, on Thursday used the choicest of abuses against Yogeshwara and his apparent attempt to seek a leadership change.The entire episode has widened the rift within the BJP, making them an easier target for the opposition to go after in the run up to the 2023 assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yediyurappa-downplays-infighting-talks-says-focus-on-covid-101622141701024.html
28-05-2021||India||Digital news publishers get 15 days to share details as per new IT guidelines||The ministry of information and broadcasting has set a 15-day deadline for digital news media publishers, including websites of legacy media houses, and over-the-top (OTT) platforms like Netflix and Hotstar, to share details under the new social media and digital ethics rules. This has caused some concern among publishers who fear free and fair reporting may be impacted by these new regulations.While digital news media publishers aren’t required to be registered with the ministry, the government has asked for information about their grievance redressal officer in India, the self-regulating body of which the publisher is a member, and the details of the editor.“A total of around 60 publishers, and their associations, have also informed the ministry that they have already initiated the process of formation of self-regulatory bodies under the rules. Some publishers have also written to the ministry regarding registration with the ministry under the rules,” a ministry notice said.The contentious new guidelines were notified by the government on May 25, establishing a three-tier self-regulatory system for OTT platforms. It also requires the streaming services to categorise content and use different ratings to specify its appropriateness for different age groups. At the apex of the three-tier system will be an interministerial panel headed by an authorised officer of the ministry. This panel can ban content it finds violative of Section 69(A) of the IT Act.On Thursday, the News Broadcasters Association wrote to I&B minister Prakash Javadekar, seeking exemption for traditional media publishers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/digital-news-publishers-get-15-days-to-share-details-as-per-new-it-guidelines-101622141461003.html
28-05-2021||India||Legal hurdles may hit Choksi’s repatriation||Government investigators on Thursday pushed to bring back fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi, who was captured in Dominica two days after mysteriously vanishing from Antigua & Barbuda, even as the businessman’s lawyers alleged he was abducted and deportation to India was not legally permitted.Indian-born Choksi, who fled the country in 2018 after being charged in the ₹13,578 Punjab National Bank cheating case, was apprehended by the Criminal Investigation Division (CID) in the Caribbean island of Dominica on Tuesday night on the basis of an Interpol “yellow notice”. He had gone missing in Antigua on Sunday evening, roughly 101 nautical miles away.The Indian government was coordinating with both Dominica and Antigua & Barbuda to bring Choksi back, considering he was currently located illegally in a jurisdiction from where he could be repatriated on the basis of the Interpol red notice, people familiar with developments said.A senior Indian investigator agreed that India now had better chances to bring Choksi back. “We are in touch with authorities in Dominica to get him repatriated to India. He is not a citizen there so he can be deported quickly,” he said on condition of anonymity.In Antigua, PM Gaston Browne told reporters that Choksi should be declared persona non grata and sent to India instead of Antigua & Barbuda, where he has legal and constitution protection as a citizen.“We asked them (Dominica) not to repatriate him to Antigua. He needs to return to India where he can face the criminal charges levelled against him”, Browne told journalists. Browne added that Choksi had made a monumental error by fleeing to Dominica.However, acting police chief of Dominica Lincoln Corbette hinted that he may not be sent back to India. “Mehul Choksi is in Dominica only and he will be sent back to Antigua when everything is ascertained,” he said.A statement issued by Dominica on Thursday also suggested that Choksi may be repatriated to Antigua.The statement, issued by Dominica’s ministry of national security and home affairs, while calling Choksi as an “Indian citizen”, confirmed he has been detained by law enforcement for illegal entry into Dominica. It said the ministry was in communication with the authorities of Antigua & Barbuda to ascertain some facts “including the status of his Antiguan citizenship”.“Once the information is provided by the Antigua authorities, possible arrangements will be made for Mr Mehul Choksi to be repatriated to Antigua,” the statement added.Choksi’s lawyers contended that repatriation to India may be legally complicated, especially because India doesn’t have an extradition treaty with Dominica and Choksi currently holds Antiguan citizenship.His lawyer in Dominica – Wayne Marsh – alleged on local radio that the 62-year-old businessman was abducted at Jolly Harbour in Antigua and brought to Dominica by police officers from India and Dominica on Sunday itself. He further alleged that Choksi was tortured and kept like a prisoner.“We were denied access to Mr Choksi yesterday. Luckily, this morning, I met him and noticed that he was severely beaten, his eyes were swollen, and he had several marks… apparently he was burnt by some electrical device. He reports to me that he was abducted at Jolly Harbour and brought to Dominica, by persons who he believes to be Indian and Antiguan police in a vessel which he describes to be 60 to 70 feet…,” Marsh said to a local FM channel in Roseau.“Mr Choksi is entitled to legal representation, whether he is in Antigua or in Dominica. The facts are that Mr Choksi is an Antiguan citizen. He is not an Indian citizen,” he added.Choksi’s lawyer in New Delhi Vijay Aggarwal said they had filed a habeas corpus petition in Dominica and also alleged lack of access to the businessman and deprivation of constitutional rights to legal assistance.“My understanding is that his reaching Dominica is not voluntary. So, I find something fishy that nobody seems to be at the moment looking into the fact that how exactly he reached Dominica,” he said.Citing Section 9 of the Indian Citizenship Act, Aggarwal said Choksi could only be deported to Antigua. “The moment Mehul Choksi acquired the citizenship of Antigua, he ceased to be a citizen of India. Hence legally as per the Immigration and Passport Act, Section 17 and 23, he can be deported only to Antigua,” Aggarwal said in a statement.India has cordial relations with the Commonwealth of Dominica, which has population of around 72,000.As part of the Vaccine Maitri initiative, India donated 35,000 doses to Dominica in February this year. India exports mainly pharmaceutical products, ready-made garments, textiles and home furnishings, and food products to Dominica, while the latter exports mainly scrap metals. Bilateral trade between India and Dominica during 2017-18 amounted to US$2.38 million.The Indian government also provided financial support of US$ 1 lakh as immediate relief and granted US$ 1 million for infrastructure reconstruction in Dominica under the India UNDP Fund in the aftermath of Hurricane Maria in 2017.On several occasions in the past, the Antiguan government has said that it was ready to extradite Choksi to India, for which the process is already on. His extradition case as well as revocation of citizenship by Antigua is currently being pursued in a court there, which he has challenged.Choksi, who sought refuge in Antigua after allegedly cheating PNB of ₹13,578 crore along with his nephew Nirav Modi, and fleeing India in 2018, left his home on Sunday to go for dinner at a well-known restaurant in the southern part of the island and was never seen again. His car was found in Jolly Harbour, a popular nightspot in the 280 sq km island with a population of less than 100,000 people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/legal-hurdles-may-hit-choksi-s-repatriation-101622141340974.html
28-05-2021||India||Farm sector unscathed by 2nd Covid wave||India’s agriculture sector, which employs nearly half the country’s working population, appears to have been unscathed during the second national wave of Covid infections, just as it was during the first outbreak in 2020. The resilience will, in all likelihood, keep the farm growth rate in positive territory, cushioning rural incomes, even as the pandemic weighs on the broader economy, analysts said.Less stringent lockdowns, better rain, uninterrupted credit flow, and functioning rural supply lines for inputs such as fertilisers, kept farmers going, although rural India saw a surge in infections, several experts said.The country is projected to produce a record 304 million tonne of foodgrains in 2020-21, 2.66% more than the previous year, according to the third of the four annual projections by the agricultural ministry released this week.The share of rural districts in total new cases stood at 44.1% for in April 2021, lower than the previous peak of 55.2% in August 2020, according to district-level data on Covid-19 cases analysed by HT.Although the main kharif or summer-sown season will start in June, with the arrival of the monsoon, official data shows total summer crops sown during April and May stood at 8.46 million hectares, rising 21% over last year’s 6.64 million hectares. The second wave of Covid-19 peaked during these months. April is also the month when farmers successfully harvested rabi crops such as wheat and pulses.Two years of back-to-back normal monsoon (2019 and 2020) was key reason behind the record farm output. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on April 16 again forecast normal rainfall during June-September monsoon at 98%. Rainfall between 94 and 106% is considered “normal”, according to IMD’s classification.Researchers are beginning to study how the sector was holding strong despite the pandemic. “This sowing progress is promising, given that the second wave. This shows that for Indian agriculture, the preponderant variable still are good rains,” said KS Manu, a farm economist formerly with the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University. Nearly 60% of India’s net-sown area depends on rains because of lack of irrigation facilities.In 2020, when India faced a recession, agriculture was the only sector to post positive growth. It grew 3.4% in the June 2020 quarter, when the overall economy shrunk 24.4%. When all-India growth returned to positive territory in the December 2020 quarter, expanding 0.4%, agriculture grew at 3.9%.“In states such as Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab and Rajasthan, higher output share of agriculture may cushion the second wave shock,” said DK Joshi, the chief economist of Crisil Ltd, a ratings firm.Data cited by Joshi shows rural resilience may have also helped the manufacturing sector because about half of India’s manufacturing output comes from rural areas.“The purchasing managers index for the manufacturing sector has remained above the 50 expansion mark despite recent regional lockdowns and restrictions,” he said.To be sure, when the pandemic swept into India in 2020, it impacted agriculture marketing and prices, according to a study by Ramakumar, who is Nabard chair professor at Tata Institute of Social Sciences. “Farmers reeled under the impact of labour shortage, as agricultural operations suffered and costs of labour rose,” he wrote in a study published in January in the Review of Agrarian Studies.However, labour shortage was quickly compensated by a rise in the number of women in the fields, meaning womenfolk in rural households stepped in to mitigate the labour crisis, says Alokesh Khandekar of the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research, who is currently leading a study on the impact of Covid on agriculture.Analysts say credit flow, or institutional farm loans, during the pandemic helped insulate the sector. “The government’s stimulus package was mostly credit-led rather than direct cash. The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development was allotted additional ₹30,000 crore of emergency capital to provide credit to 30 million small farmers,” said Ravi Prakash Shukla, Khandekar’s co-researcher.TISS’s Ramakumar, however, found higher market disruptions in 2020, leading to lower produce being sold as compared to 2019, contrary to the government’s figures. Producers of perishables suffered permanent losses, his study states.A robust monsoon is on the cards, and “agriculture output is therefore expected to be healthy,” Joshi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-sector-unscathed-by-second-covid-wave-101622141280868.html
28-05-2021||India||India concerned at violence in Jerusalem, possible eviction in Sheikh Jarrah||India on Thursday expressed concern at the continuing violence in Jerusalem, especially at Haram Al Sharif and other Palestinian territories, and the possible eviction of people in Sheikh Jarrah and Silwan neighbourhoods in East Jerusalem.New Delhi’s concerns were conveyed in a statement by Indra Mani Pandey, the country’s permanent representative to the UN in Geneva, during a special session of the Human Rights Council. India also welcomed diplomatic efforts by the world community and regional countries that led to the ceasefire between Israel and armed groups in Gaza.As with India’s statement on May 20 at the UN General Assembly debate on the question of Palestine, the statement at the UN Human Rights Council contained no reference to India’s traditional stance of supporting the “just Palestinian cause” but reiterated backing for a two-state solution.Israel and Hamas, the Palestinian group that runs Gaza Strip, reached a ceasefire on May 20 following 11 days of hostilities that killed more than 250 Palestinians, including 66 children, and 12 people in Israel, including two children and an Indian national. The truce brokered by Egypt has been threatened by tensions over Jerusalem.Israel’s Supreme Court is currently hearing a case related to the eviction of Palestinian residents from the East Jerusalem neighbourhood of Sheikh Jarrah, a matter that ignited tensions between Israelis and Palestinians. A lower court in Jerusalem is also hearing appeals filed on behalf of seven Palestinian families who are opposing their eviction from Silwan neighbourhood.“We remain concerned about the continuing violence in Jerusalem, especially at Haram Al Sharif/Temple Mount and other Palestinian territories, and about the possible eviction process in Sheikh Jarrah and Silwan neighbourhoods in East Jerusalem, an area which is part of an arrangement facilitated by the UN,” Pandey said in his statement.“India calls on all parties to show extreme restraint, desist from actions that aggravate tensions and refrain from any further attempts to unilaterally change the existing status quo, including in East Jerusalem and its neighbourhoods,” he added.Pandey reiterated India’s condemnation of Hamas’ “indiscriminate rocket firings from Gaza targeting the civilian population in Israel” and said both the rockets and Israel’s “retaliatory air strikes into Gaza” over the last two weeks had caused immense suffering and resulted in deaths.“We deeply mourn the loss of civilian lives resulting from the violence, and urge the international community’s immediate attention to providing humanitarian assistance to the Palestinian civilian population, particularly in Gaza,” he said.India is continuing to provide developmental and humanitarian assistance to the Palestinian Authority, including Covid-19-related aid bilaterally and through contributions to the UN, Pandey said.“India remains firmly convinced that dialogue remains the only viable option that can effectively address the issues confronting the region and its people. Recent developments have once again underscored the need for immediate resumption of dialogue between Israel and Palestine, aimed at realising the establishment of two States living side by side in peace within secure and recognised borders,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-concerned-at-violence-in-jerusalem-possible-eviction-in-sheikh-jarrah-101622141221693.html
28-05-2021||India||Collector says new rules meant to ‘develop tourism’ in Lakshadweep||The proposed new rules in Lakshadweep are for the benefit of the people and a misinformation campaign is being carried out by people with vested interests to project the Union territory administration in poor light, said collector S Askar Ali at a media conference in Kochi on Thursday. This was even as an all-party virtual meet in the island, attended even by some BJP leaders, decided to move court against the controversial rules brought in by UT administrator Praful Khoda Patel.In the first official briefing since the controversy erupted, the collector defended the administration, saying everything was being done to develop Lakshadweep as a tourism hub.Ali gave the example of the island nation of Maldives and said it has the same features and climate as Lakshadweep but is way ahead in tourism. “Our idea is to develop tourism in the island to help the local economy and provide better jobs to the youth. Many youths either go outside for jobs or engage in traditional vocations. We have to change it,” Ali said.On the more controversial orders, Ali said that there was no beef ban in the island, but cow slaughter is barred just like in a few other states and UTs. On the altered midday meal menu, Ali said beef and chicken were taken out to popularise fish and the decision was taken by the education department. He said egg and fish were still part of the menu.On the proposal to allow alcohol, the collector said it will be restricted to the tourism industry alone and some of the charges being levelled at the administration on this are baseless.About the imposition of the Goonda Act, Ali said the crime rate was going up and there was a need to nip it in the bud. “We have reports about some youth being attracted to the drug trade. Recently, the coast guard seized drugs worth ₹3,000 crore near one of the uninhabited islands. Such laws are only meant for such forces,” the collector said.However, political parties are already getting ready to challenge the new rules in court. This was decided at an all-party virtual meet on Thursday where even BJP leaders were present. It was also decided to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi next week over the matter.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi wrote to PM on Thursday, saying that the “anti-people policies” are posing a threat to the future of the people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/collector-says-new-rules-meant-to-develop-tourism-in-lakshadweep-101622141160922.html
28-05-2021||India||Amid Covid-19 vaccine crunch, India Inc steps in to inoculate employees||Many of India’s largest conglomerates and companies are focusing on vaccinating their employees , largely through partnerships with private health care providers and, in some cases, government vaccination centres.The list of companies that are doing this includes Tata Consultancy Services, India’s largest employer in the IT sector (it employs around 400,000 people ), M&M, Ashok Leyland, and Sundaram Clayton.Many of the companies are also extending the facility to families of their employees.In most cases, the shots, for both the employees and their families, are free.In a statement TCS said it started vaccination camps in a few cities in early May and has now increased the scale of its drive. “TCS is setting up over 100 CVCs (COVID Vaccination Centres) across India; this includes CVC’s across TCS offices in 21 cities and CVCs launched with our primary medical partner across 33 cities. For associates that do not have access to CVCs in these areas, we are also enabling access to vaccination centers via a national network of more than 650 hospitals,” the company said in a statement.Another IT firm Accenture, said in a communication that it is organizing vaccinations in Bengaluru and NCR and has asked employees to register for appointments two days in advance.In all cases, the employees have to register on the Co-win portal of the government, but will not have to worry about scheduling appointments -- a process that has become difficult even in private vaccination centres given the crunch in vaccine supplies.Arjun Vaidyanathan, COO of KPMG in India, said the firm has tied up with Ekincare to provide vaccination for employees in more than 150 centres across the country. The centres cover all KPMG office locations and many that are not -- some employees are working from other locations. “We have already had our vaccination camps in Delhi, Gurgaon, Chandigarh, Kolkata, Bengaluru and Mumbai. Rest of the locations will follow in due course,” said Arjun.Employees are delighted. Mukul Dikshit, senior consultant at EY and his colleague Divya Deora posted pictures of a vaccination camps in their Kolkata office on Linkedin. Deora also commented: “Indeed we are building a better working world.”Till Tuesday evening, India had administered 200.5 million vaccinations. This breaks up into 43.4 million fully vaccinated people (both doses), and 113.5 million people who have received one dose.Last year, the government mooted a proposal to allow companies in strategically important sectors to negotiate directly with vaccine manufacturers for doses for their workforce. An official said that the current system is better as it allows any company to tie up with health care companies.N V Balachandar, Ashok Leyland’s President, HR & CSR, said in a statement that vaccination camps have been organised for employees and their families and “about 75% of the 45+ age group in the company have been vaccinated so far. Across age groups, 25% have been vaccinated as we speak, this vaccination drive will continue with huge momentum.”Mahindra & Mahindra’s spokesperson said that “100% of first vaccination has been achieved for all Mahindra employees above 45 years” and the company is also working with hospitals to set up vaccination clinics across the country. Similarly, TVS Motor Company and Sundaram Clayton Ltd. have vaccinated all employees above 45 years. “All employees above the age of 18 years at our Hosur, Mysore, and Bangalore offices are now being vaccinated in collaboration with various hospitals and PHCs,”the company said in a statement.Godrej & Boyce will start its vaccination drive through the Godrej Memorial Hospital (GMH) in Mumbai while Cement producer LafargeHolcim has arranged for the vaccination of all its employees and families.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-vaccine-crunch-india-inc-steps-in-to-inoculate-employees-101622141100818.html
28-05-2021||India||We recognise, respect right to privacy: Centre||Union electronics and information technology minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Thursday maintained the government “fully recognises and respects the right of privacy” and said the new rules for intermediaries were designed to empower citizens and prevent the “abuse and misuse” of social media.His remarks came as Twitter became the second internet giant to oppose the rules, saying it presented a threat to the right to free speech and expression of its users. A day before, WhatsApp challenged the rules in the Delhi high court, saying it risked a dangerous invasion of privacy.“The new Rules require the social media companies to set up an India-based grievance redressal officer, compliance officer and nodal officer so that millions of users of social media who have a grievance get a forum for its redressal,” Prasad posted on Koo, a micro-blogging website similar to Twitter, billed as an Indian alternative to the US-based service.Prasad said ordinary users of WhatsApp have nothing to fear about the new rules. “Its entire objective is to find out who started the message that led to commissioning of specific crimes mentioned in the Rules.”He clarified the “obligation to reveal” the first originator of an offensive message already in circulation “relates only to offences relating to sovereignty, integrity & security of India, public order, rape, child sexual abuse”. “That too when other less intrusive measures are not effective.”The government on Wednesday wrote to social media companies such as Facebook and Twitter to send details of their compliance officers, nodal contact persons, resident grievance officers and physical contact addresses in India. It asked them to confirm if they have complied with the new Information Technology Act guidelines after the deadline to do so ended on Tuesday. None of these companies have complied yet, with Facebook being the first on Tuesday to hint at some “issues that need to be discussed”.The controversial guidelines direct the companies to put in place a new mechanism to regulate content, appoint officers who will be liable for compliance, and adopt features such as traceability of messages and voluntary user verification.WhatsApp has a resident grievance officer. It is yet to appoint a compliance officer. Twitter and Facebook have not appointed anyone yet.Prasad’s ministry separately released a statement against Twitter, after the company said it was concerned about the potential threat to the freedom of expression of its users, as well as about its employees. “Twitter’s statement is an attempt to dictate its terms to the world’s largest democracy,” the ministry said in a press statement. “Twitter refuses to comply with those very regulations in the Intermediary Guidelines on the basis of which it is claiming a safe harbour protection from any criminal liability in India... Government condemns the unfortunate statement issued by Twitter as totally baseless, false and an attempt to defame India to hide their own follies,” it added.The government stated that Twitter had allowed the “geo-location of Ladakh to be shown in China, treated the violence at Capitol Hill and Red Fort differently, promoted vaccine hesitancy and allowed the use of the term Indian variant for the Covid strain despite WHO guidelines against it”.It charged the microblogging website of “not taking action against fake narratives” and propagating “grandiose claims of serving the people of India”.“India has a glorious tradition of free speech and democratic practices dating back centuries. Protecting free speech in India is not the prerogative of only a private, for-profit, foreign entity like Twitter,” the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-recognise-respect-right-to-privacy-centre-101622140980918.html
28-05-2021||India||HC to hear TMC leaders’ petition in 2016 Narada case today||A five-judge bench of the Calcutta high court will hear on Friday the recall petition of four senior Trinamool Congress (TMC) leaders accused in the 2016 Narada sting operation case against a stay order on their bail.The four leaders will continue to remain under house arrest till then. While two of them are admitted in a state-run hospital, two went back home after the court put them under house arrest on May 21. The bench on Thursday, however, questioned the Central Bureau of Investigation if a judicial order can be disregarded on the basis of public perception.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta appearing for the agency sought that the entire proceedings that took place at a special CBI court on May 17 be declared as vitiated and non-est. The court, however, said that if there is nothing on record to show that the special CBI court was influenced, then how could the bench look into other factors.TMC MP and advocate Kalyan Banerjee appearing on behalf of Subrata Mukherjee, one of the accused, told the court that when a recall application on a stay order is filed it must be heard within two weeks. The recall petition was filed on May 19. The CBI on May 17 arrested the leaders. On May 21, however, the HC put them under house arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-to-hear-tmc-leaders-petition-in-2016-narada-case-today-101622139360231.html
28-05-2021||India||Improvement in medical infrastructure of 5 districts: Allahabad HC||The Allahabad high court on Thursday expressed satisfaction with regard to the “improvement of medical facilities” in the hospitals of Bahraich, Shravasti, Bijnor, Barabanki and Jaunpur districts after perusing a report filed by the state government.The bench comprising justice Siddhartha Varma and justice Ajit Kumar, while hearing a suo moto PIL litigation, said, “We have perused the report and do appreciate that some work has been done with regard to the improvement of medical infrastructure and hope that similar efforts will be made in respect of other districts as well. By the next date, the State Government may further give a report with regard to the improvement of medical infrastructures in five more districts, namely, Bhadohi, Ghazipur, Ballia, Deoria and Shamli.” The court fixed the next date of hearing on June 7.In its order, the court also mentioned that satisfactory work had been done for the capping of fee for carrying out Covid tests. “...In respect of RT-PCR tests the fee ranges between ₹500/- and ₹900/-. For Antigen tests the fee has been fixed for ₹200/-. For True Nat private testing has been fixed for ₹1200.”Last week, the court had criticised the government stating the health services were ‘ Ram Bharose’ (at God’s mercy).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/improvement-in-medical-infra-of-5-districts-allahabad-hc-101622139302631.html
28-05-2021||India||Congress writes to Delhi top cop over ‘illegal enquiry’ in toolkit case||Senior Congress leader Rajeev Gowda on Thursday wrote a letter to the Delhi police commissioner alleging that without registering an FIR, the police were conducting an “illegal preliminary enquiry” on his May 18 complaint related to the “sharing and uploading of a fake toolkit” by senior Bharatiya Janata Party leaders on social media.Gowda, chairperson of the Research Department of the All India Congress Committee(AICC), also shared a copy of the letter on Twitter, in which he has accused Delhi police of not registering a First Information Report (FIR) and allegedly protecting the BJP leaders.In the letter, signed by Gowda and another Congress leader, Rohan Gupta, chairman of the party’s social media department, the two have asked Delhi police commissioner SN Shrivastava to transfer their May 18 complaint to the Chhattisgarh police because police there have already registered an FIR and are probing the case. The two leaders had filed a similar complaint against BJP leaders with the Chhattisgarh police too on May 18.The BJP has said that the documents posted by BJP leader Sambit Patra were part of a “toolkit” made to defame Prime Minister Narendra Modi and build a biased narrative over Covid-19 management and the Central Vista project.Delhi police on May 22 asked the two Congress leaders to join the investigation as they started a preliminary enquiry into the allegations. The two were sent notices on May 21, the same day Twitter’s (India) managing director Manish Maheshwari was sent a notice, asking him for his participation in the investigation through his physical presence at the special cell’s Lodhi Colony office on May 22. However, none of the three joined the enquiry that is being done by the special cell.Gowda accused the Delhi police of failing to register an FIR because they were under pressure.In the letter, Gowda wrote “ we have also been informed that Chhattisgarh police has already written to you vide letter 22.5.2021 asking you to transfer the material.”Delhi Police did not immediately offer a response to Gowda’s letter.But a police officer, privy to the case details, who wished not to be named, said, “The two Congress leaders sent their complaint over mail... We also wanted to verify if the complaints were indeed filed by them. This is a routine process.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-writes-to-delhi-top-cop-over-illegal-enquiry-in-toolkit-case-101622139000787.html
28-05-2021||India||Centre extends term of IB head, RAW chief by a year||Intelligence Bureau (IB) director Arvinda Kumar and Research and Analysis Wing (RAW) chief Samant Kumar Goel were on Thursday granted a year’s extension in service, an order issued by the appointments committee of Cabinet (ACC) said.Kumar and Goel will continue to head their respective agencies till June 30, 2022, the order said. Their tenure was set to end on June 30 this year.Goel is a 1984-batch Indian Police Service (IPS) officer from the Punjab cadre, and Kumar, a 1984-batch officer, belongs to the Assam-Meghalaya cadre. The two were appointed to head the agencies in June 2019 for a fixed tenure of two years.Kumar is an expert on counterterrorism and Kashmir. Goel was instrumental in India’s planning the 2019 Balakot strikes following the Pulwama attack by Jaish-e-Mohammad. He also played a key role in coordinating with the Army during the 2016 surgical strikes following the Uri attack.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-extends-term-of-ib-head-raw-chief-by-a-year-101622136479841.html
28-05-2021||India||Not India, Mehul Choksi will be sent to Antigua, says Dominica's acting police chief||Fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi, who went missing from Antigua and surfaced in Dominica, may be repatriated to Antigua and Barbuda, the Dominican ministry of national security and home affairs said on Wednesday. In a statement, the Dominican government said it had sought some information about Choksi’s citizenship status.“Mehul Choksi is in Dominica only and he will be sent back to Antigua when everything is ascertained,” Lincoln Corbette, the acting police chief of Dominica told Hindustan Times.The Dominican government’s statement comes a day after Prime Minister Gaston Browne of Antigua and Barbuda declared that his country did not want Choksi and made it known that he would prefer that Choksi be directly repatriated from Dominica to India where he is wanted for bank fraud.People familiar with the matter in India have indicated that it wasn’t as simple as PM Browne made it appear since Choksi was a citizen of Antigua.The statement from the Dominican capital Roseau appeared to reflect this assessment.Explained: Mehul Choksi caught in Dominica but India may have to wait to get him"The Ministry of National Security and Home Affairs is in communication with the authorities of Antigua and Barbuda to ascertain some facts including the status of his Antiguan Citizenship. Once the information is provided by the Antigua authorities, possible arrangements will be made for Mr. Mehul Choksi to be repatriated to Antigua," the statement said.Choksi was reported missing on Sunday, hours after he left his home for dinner at a well-known restaurant in the southern part of the island and was never seen again. A massive manhunt was launched by the Antiguan police. Choksi's car, in which he travelled to the restaurant, was recovered but there was no sign of the diamantaire.He was reported to have been apprehended on Tuesday by authorities in Dominica, another Caribbean island located about 100 nautical miles from Antigua.Choksi, however, has rebutted this version claimed by the authorities in Antigua and claimed that he was abducted, forced to get into a vessel from Jolly Harbour in Antigua and taken to Dominica.Choksi's lawyer in India Vijay Aggarwal said he had spoken to his client who told him that Choksi was kept in a police station since Monday, long before the news of his detention in Dominica was made public. "There is something fishy and I guess it was a strategy to take him to another country so that there are chances of sending him back to India. I don’t know what forces are operating, the time will tell," Aggarwal said, citing his conversation with the diamantaire.The 61-year-old and his nephew Nirav Modi are wanted in India for allegedly siphoning off nearly ₹14,000 crore of public money from the state-run Punjab National Bank (PNB), using letters of undertaking.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mehul-choksi-to-be-sent-back-to-antigua-says-dominica-101622133912007.html
28-05-2021||India||Explained: Mehul Choksi caught in Dominica but India may have to wait to get him||Efforts by Indian authorities to get back fugitive diamond trader Mehul Choksi will depend on the response to the request for his repatriation from Dominica, a country with which India doesn’t have an extradition treaty or arrangement.People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that several complex legal issues will decide the case of Choksi, a key accused in bank fraud cases involving the Punjab National Bank, including legal remedies available to him in Dominica.The people made it clear that the matter wasn’t as cut and dry as the assertion by Prime Minister Gaston Browne of Antigua and Barbuda – where Choksi sought refuge after fleeing India in 2018 – that the fugitive businessman should be repatriated to India instead of being sent back to Antigua.“There are issues such as Choksi’s Antiguan nationality and whether he has violated any laws in Dominica. If he has violated any laws in Dominica, there is the question of whether authorities there think his case should be processed by the Dominican system,” a person said.While India has an extradition arrangement with Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica isn’t among the 58 countries with which New Delhi has either extradition treaties or arrangements.The people cited above said Indian authorities are in touch with their counterparts in Antigua and Barbuda and Dominica to press for Choki’s speedy repatriation.In cases involving countries with which India doesn’t have an extradition arrangement, the repatriation of fugitives largely depends on decisions made by local authorities, the people said. Such decisions are influenced by the legal remedies available under local laws to the fugitive and assurances given by India regarding the treatment of the fugitive, the people added.Browne has told the media that Antigua doesn’t want Choksi to be sent back and that it would prefer for him to be directly repatriated from Dominica to India. He also contended that Choksi had made a “monumental error” by travelling to Dominica as this had prejudiced the constitutional and legal protections enjoyed by him as an Antiguan citizen.The position adopted by Browne is understandable as Antigua has been trying for the past few years to revoke the citizenship obtained by Choksi under the country’s Citizenship by Investment Program (CIP). The programme, launched in 2013, allows wealthy foreign investors to acquire citizenship by making an economic contribution of $130,000 or a real estate investment of $200,000.Choksi, who allegedly cheated the Punjab National Bank of ₹13,578 crore along with his nephew Nirav Modi, gave up his Indian citizenship and surrendered his passport after obtaining Antiguan citizenship. Browne had last year described Choksi as a “crook” and said he would be repatriated to India after he exhausted his appeals against the move to revoke his citizenship.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/explained-mehul-choksi-caught-in-dominica-but-india-may-have-to-wait-to-get-him-101622129279899.html
28-05-2021||India||AP govt said 11 died due to oxygen at Tirupati hospital, gives compensation to 23||Hyderabad: The Andhra Pradesh government has given ex-gratia payments to families of 23 Covid-19 patients who died at the Sri Venkata Ramnarayan Ruia (SVRR) Hospital in Tirupati earlier this month, suggesting that the tragedy at the state-run hospital had killed more patients than the government had then acknowledged.In the days after the hospital in Andhra Pradesh’s Chittoor ran out of oxygen on May 10 night, state officials had insisted that only 11 deaths could be attributed to the disruption of oxygen.“The oxygen supply was restored within five minutes and everything is now normal. Because of this we could prevent more casualties,” Chittoor district collector M Hari Narayanan said on May 10.But in a letter that he sent on May 19 - the letter was made public by senior Bharatiya Janata Party leader and former member of Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams G Bhanu Prakash Reddy - the district collector appears to concede that apart from the 11 patients declared dead on the night of May 10 due to low pressure in liquid oxygen supply at the hospital, 12 other Covid-19 patients had also died. In the letter, the collector said the state government had released ex gratia of ₹10 lakh each to the families of these 12 patients too and directed the revenue division officer to send the cheques to families of six of them living in Tirupati. BJP leader G Bhanu Prakash Reddy said the letter establishes that the opposition was making a fair point. “Right from the day of the incident, we have been saying that the number of Covid-19 patients who died at SVRR Hospital was much more than what was disclosed by the collector on the fateful night. Now, our charges have proved correct,” Reddy said.The district collector could not be reached for comment. But SVRR Hospital development committee chairman B Chandrasekhar said not all of them died due to low-pressure in oxygen supply.“There were some other deaths due to Covid-19 and other reasons on the same night. And their relatives claimed that these patients also died of short supply of oxygen and demanded compensation. As a result, the government considered their plea and directed that all such families should also be paid compensation,” he said. The BJP leader, who wrote a letter to Governor Biswa Bhushan Harichandan and also filed a public interest litigation petition in the high court on May 11 to seek a thorough probe into the incident, alleged that the government tried to hush up the incident and blame it on the delay in transportation of oxygen from Sriperumbudur to the hospital. “Now, by paying the compensation to 23 people, the government has admitted that the deaths on May 10 night were underreported,” Reddy added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ap-govt-said-11-died-due-to-oxygen-at-tirupati-hospital-gives-compensation-to-23-101622128261173.html
28-05-2021||India||Monsoon to arrive early in Kerala: IMD||Conditions are favourable for the onset of monsoon in Kerala around May 31, a day ahead of its usual date, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Thursday. IMD scientists said the very severe Cyclonic Yaas, which ravaged Odisha and West Bengal coasts on Wednesday, helped strengthen monsoon winds.Normally, monsoon arrives in Kerala around June 1 and covers the rest of India by mid-July.Sunitha Devi, who is in charge of cyclones at IMD, said there is no likelihood of a low-pressure area developing immediately. “(Cyclone) Yaas has weakened. Now monsoon will gradually pick up,” she saidMahesh Palawat, vice president, Skymet Weather, said Cyclone Yaas helped pull the monsoon current ahead in the Arabian Sea. “There was heavy to very heavy rain reported in many parts of Kerala in the last 24 hours. So, we are expecting the monsoon to arrive early.”OP Sreejith, scientist and head, Climate Monitoring and Prediction Group, said cross-equatorial flow over the Arabian Sea has strengthened because of which heavy rain was reported over Kerala. “But that is not monsoon rain. We are expecting monsoon to arrive on May 31.”On May 14, IMD said Monsoon is likely to arrive over Kerala on May 31 a day ahead of its normal arrival date of June 1, with a possible error margin of plus/minus four days. The monsoon season is crucial for summer crops and brings about 70% of India’s annual rainfall. It is critical to the country’s agriculture, which is one of the mainstays of its economy. The monsoon impacts inflation, jobs, and industrial demand. Good farm output keeps a lid on food inflation. Ample harvests raise rural incomes and help inject demand into the economy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/conditions-favourable-for-onset-of-monsoon-over-kerala-on-may-31-imd-101622116486752.html
28-05-2021||India||Redact parts that reveal woman’s identity: HC tells trial court in Tejpal case||The Bombay high court at Goa on Thursday directed sessions judge Kshama Joshi to redact portions of her judgement that could reveal the identity of a woman who accused journalist Tarun Tejpal of rape and sexual assault in 2013. Last week, Joshi acquitted Tejpal in the case saying the prosecution failed to prove the case beyond reasonable doubt, while suggesting that the woman did not prove a “sterling witness”, and pulling up the Goa Police for trying to suppress crucial pieces of evidence.A vacation bench of justice SC Gupte issued the redaction order while hearing the Goa government’s urgent appeal against the acquittal. The high court also gave the government three days to put the order on record, and amend the grounds of appeal.“[Solicitor General] Tushar] Mehta (who appeared for Goa) pointed out the issues in the judgement. The high court has agreed and directed the sessions judge to make some alterations before the judgement is uploaded,” said Pravin Faldesai, a government advocate.“It appears from the impugned judgment of the learned Sessions Judge, available to this court, but which, the court is informed, is not yet uploaded on the trial court website, that it contains a reference to the victim’s husband and also her email ID,” the bench said.It added that a reference to the name of the mother of the woman was also there in the order. “In the interest of protecting the identity of the victim of an offence, such as the one with which we are concerned in the present case, it is appropriate to have the above references... redacted,” it said.The matter will be next heard on June 2.Tejpal faced allegations of rape and sexual assault by a former colleague in the elevator of a five-star hotel during an event eight years ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tejpal-case-hc-tells-court-to-redact-verdict-parts-that-reveal-woman-s-identity-101622111357980.html
28-05-2021||India||'Hindutva policies' concocted imagery, says Jaishankar in US||External affairs minister S Jaishankar has defended the government in the face of criticism in the West of its “Hindutva policies”, saying there is a difference between “concocted” political imagery and the country’s actual governance record.Participating in the Battlegrounds series of virtual discussions hosted by former US national security adviser HR McMaster for the Hoover Institution at Stanford University, Jaishankar said on Wednesday that Indians are “extremely confident about our democracy” and nobody would trade democracy for an alternative form of governance.The foreign minister is currently on a five-day visit to the US, the first by a senior Indian leader since the Biden administration assumed office. Access to Covid-19 vaccines and the situation in Afghanistan are among the key items on his agenda for interactions with his American interlocutors.Jaishankar was responding to pointed questions from McMaster about challenges to democratic countries around the world and concerns in the West amid the Covid-19 pandemic about “Hindutva policies that could be undermining the secular nature of Indian democracy”.The minister framed his responses in the context of what he said were a “straight political answer” and a “slightly more nuanced societal answer”.“When you come down to real governance judgements, you find that there is a difference between the political imagery that has been concocted and actually the governance record out there,” Jaishankar said.“I think you should take it for what it is, which is really politics at play. You can agree with it, you can disagree with it but I would certainly see that very much as part of a political effort to depict our current government in a certain way and obviously I have a very profound difference with that,” he added.In terms of a political answer, Jaishankar said, there was a “great reliance” on vote bank politics in the past, or appealing to voters on the basis of their identity or beliefs.“The fact that we have departed from it has been...a difference. India is a country of many faiths and faiths everywhere in the world are very closely tied to culture and identity. In our society, we define secularism as equal respect for all faiths. Secularism doesn’t mean that you are in denial of your own faith or anybody else’s faith,” he said.India is currently witnessing a “deepening of democracy, a much broader representation in politics and in leadership positions and in civil society of people who are much more confident about their culture, language and beliefs”, Jaishankar added.The minister said that “these are people who perhaps are less from the English-speaking world, less connected to other global centres”. He added, “So there is a difference. I think sometimes that difference is judged politically, harshly and it is often used to create a certain narrative.”In terms of a “larger societal explanation”, Jaishankar said that India is diverse in terms of ethnicity, language, and all other parameters and the current government is working for the benefit of all people, irrespective of their background.“We are going through a very stressful time right now because of the pandemic. We are actually giving free food – last year for multiple months, right now again because of the second wave – to as much as 800 million people. We put money into the bank accounts of 400 million people,” he said.“Now if you are feeding more than two-and-half times the population of the US and you’re funding more than the population of the US and you’re doing this pretty much anonymously and impersonally – in the sense [that] beyond the name and the detail and the bank account of the person – we’re not asking anything more, there’s no criteria of discrimination.”Indians, he added, have no doubts about the effectiveness of democracy.“We Indians are extremely confident about our democracy. We believe that that’s really the political system and the value system that suits us because...it captures our fundamental diversity and the culture of reasoning and coming to positions and an acceptance of what the rules of the day throw up,” he said.India has held multiple elections over the years and had peaceful transitions of power, he noted. The fact that elections have resulted in changes in the party in power at different levels is “proof that democracy is working”, he said.“I don’t think anybody in India would trade democracy for an alternative form of governance,” Jaishankar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/difference-between-concocted-imagery-of-govt-and-actual-governance-jaishankar-101622099417100.html
