29-05-2021||India||579 arrested in Deoghar for involvement in cyber crime||As many as 579 people were arrested in Jharkhand's Deoghar district between September 14, 2020 and May 28, 2021 for their alleged involvement in cyber crime and ₹28.26 lakh were recovered from them in addition to a large number of mobile phones and sim cards, police said Saturday. Deoghar SP Ashwini Kumar said at a press conference that as many as 1,027 mobile phones, 1,577 SIM cards, 467 ATM cards, 23 laptops, 94 passbooks, 77 cheque books, 76 two- wheelers, 27 four-wheelers and other goods were seized from their possession. In addition, ₹28.26 lakh were recovered from their possession, he added. Mentioning some special cases, the SP said one Mukul Mirdha, 21, was arrested for impersonating himself as bank official from Punjab National Bank and enquiring about ATM card of a Himachal Pradesh cadre female IPS officer and using offensive language over phone. The IPS officer has lodged a complaint with Deoghar police through the Jharkhand online FIR system. Similarly, the SP said one Sarafat Ansari, 20, was arrested in connection with duping a Himachal Pradesh cadre IPS officer and cheating ₹6,565 from him through online fraud. One Lalan Kumar Mandal was arrested for allegedly duping ₹3 lakh from a relative of a trainee IPS officer posted in Gumla through online fraud, the SP said. Likewise, one Shubham Kumar Mandal was detained in connection with duping ₹1.05 lakh from a Gangadhar Rajak, former Mukhia of Mohanpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/579-arrested-in-deoghar-for-involvement-in-cyber-crime-101622309950050.html
29-05-2021||India||Kerala extends Covid lockdown by 10 days, sets the benchmark to ease curbs||Thiruvananthapuram : Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday extended the Covid-induced lockdown in the state by another 10 days, declaring that he would start rolling back the restrictions only after the test positivity rate (TPR, the proportion of people who test positive for the infection) drops below 15% for three days.Kerala has been under a lockdown for three weeks. Vijayan, like some other chief ministers, had been reluctant to order the lockdown and resisted implementing this recommendation due to concern that the poor would suffer the most. But he eventually ordered the lockdown from May 7 to control the surge in cases.On Saturday, he said the number of active cases dropped significantly during the past three weeks. “We need a lockdown to bring it down further,” he said.Kerala reported 23,513 new Covid cases, bringing the active caseload to 2,33,034. With 198 more deaths, the disease has killed 8,445 people in the state.Kerala has a TPR of 16.59% for the 1,41,795 samples tested in the state.“We will lift the lockdown only after TPR slips below 15 per cent for three consecutive days… The active caseload will have to come down drastically,” he said, pointing out that at least 60% ICU beds in the state are occupied by people being treated for the coronavirus disease.Pinarayi Vijayan said while the lockdown will continue till June 9, the government decided to extend some concessions. Jewellery shops, cloth marts and book stalls will be allowed to open for three days a week and industrial and small-scale units will be allowed to function with 50% capacity. Banks will also function for three days in a day.Several other states are expected to announce their decision to continue the lockdown or start easing the norms over the next few days as the daily new Covid cases reported nationwide on Saturday were less than 2,00,000.Around 80% of India has been under lockdown in May due to the second Covid wave.On Saturday, Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said no decision has been taken to extend the state-wide lockdown. He added that if people follow the regulations, there will be no need to extend the lockdown. All districts of Karnataka are currently under a lockdown till 6 am on June 7. “The lockdown will be in effect till June 7… strict restrictions will be in place till then…If people cooperate, the question of extending the lockdown may not arise but people have to cooperate, that is all,” he said. Karnataka recorded 20628 Covid-19 cases on Saturday, with 4,889 cases in Bengaluru. The total number of active cases in Karnataka stood at 3,50,066, while the active cases in Bengaluru were 1,64,182. Himachal Pradesh government on Saturday notified that shops would be allowed to open for two hours more every day and increase attendance in offices to 30% while deciding to keep educational institutions and public transport closed.The Meghalaya government on Friday extended the total lockdown in the East Khasi Hills district by another week, Deputy Chief Minister Prestone Tynsong said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-extends-covid-lockdown-by-10-days-sets-the-benchmark-to-ease-curbs-101622305052629.html
29-05-2021||India||Explained: How to restore oxygen levels in Covid-19 patients||Amid the second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), an increase in oxygen requirement has been reported in patients in several parts of the nation.In a press release by the Press Information Bureau (PIB), Chief Medical Officer of National Tuberculosis Institute, Bangalore, Dr Ravichandra has explained some important aspects involved in restoring oxygen levels in the body, for the benefit of the small proportion of patients who end up needing supplemental oxygen.“80% of Covid-19 cases reported are mild. Only 15% Covid patients may have moderate disease where one’s oxygen saturation level may go less than 94%. And the remaining 5% Covid infected people may end up having severe disease which shows respiratory rate higher than 30/minute and oxygen saturation level less than 90%," he added.Dr Ravichandra asked to be alert to the symptoms of low oxygen level and said the warning signs of low oxygen level include difficulty in breathing, confusion, difficulty in waking up and bluish lips or face. "Adults may develop chest pain that doesn’t go away. Children may experience flaring up of nostrils, grunting while breathing or inability to drink or eat," he added.Why should we be concerned?According to the World Health Organization (WHO), Hypoxemia (low oxygen levels in blood) may eventually result in loss of life. When oxygen levels become low because of a sickness such as Covid-19, the cells in the body don’t get enough oxygen to perform their normal functions. If the level remains low for long, maybe due to lack of treatment, organs start to malfunction; in severe cases, it may cause death.Know how to measure oxygen levelDr Ravichandra explains that there are two easy ways to measure the oxygen level.1. Pulse Oximeter: You can measure the oxygen level of a patient using a pulse oximeter which you can place on their finger, toe or earlobe. It’s a painless test, taking less than two minutes. Pulse oximeters measure the oxygen saturation or percentage of oxygen in the patient’s blood. According to a WHO training manual on pulse oximetry, if the oxygen saturation is 93% or lower, the patient needs to be treated quickly. A saturation of less than 90% is a clinical emergency.2. Respiratory Rate: Respiratory rate is the number of breaths a person takes per minute. Dr Somashekhara, Director, National Tuberculosis Institute, Bangalore explained a simple method to measure the respiratory rate without any device. Keep your palm on your chest, measure your respiratory rate for 1 minute. If the respiratory rate is less than 24 per minute, your oxygen level is safe. If a patient has more than 30 breaths per minute, the oxygen level is low.What to do when faced with a low oxygen level?Proning: Patients undergoing home care are advised to lie prone on their stomachs. This will improve breathing and increase oxygen saturation.According to the Clinical Management Protocol for Covid-19 (in Adults), released by the Union Health Ministry on May 24, 2021, awake proning should be encouraged in all patients who require supplemental oxygen therapy.The advisory by the Ministry of health and family welfare also underlines important considerations while proning in non-intubated patients• Any Covid-19 patient with respiratory embarrassment severe enough to be admitted to the hospital may be considered for rotation and early self proning.• Care must be taken to not disrupt the flow of oxygen during patient rotation• Typical protocols include 30–120 minutes in prone position, followed by 30–120 minutes in left lateral decubitus (lying on left side), right lateral decubitus (lying on right side), and upright sitting position.Using oxygen concentratorsExperts suggest that oxygen therapy may be given only in presence of a healthcare provider. However, one may use them in an emergency, while medical attention is being sought or while waiting for an ambulance.Professor and Head of Department, Anaesthesia, B. J. Medical College, Pune, Prof. Sanyogita Naik advises: “Oxygen concentrators can be used only in moderate cases of Covid-19, when the patient experiences a drop in oxygen levels, where the oxygen requirement is a maximum of 5 litres per minute.”The professor added that oxygen concentrators are also very useful for patients experiencing post-Covid complications which necessitate oxygen therapy.In both the above cases, the goal of oxygen therapy is to achieve a saturation level of 94%. Once the patient has 93% to 94% oxygen level, the oxygen therapy may be discontinued. Excess of oxygen may lead to increase in the level of carbon dioxide, leading to complications.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/explained-how-to-restore-oxygen-levels-in-covid-19-patients-101622301155539.html
29-05-2021||India||Govt announces measures to help families who lost earning member due to Covid-19||The government on Saturday announced a slew of measures to help families who have lost their earning members to coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The Centre will provide pensions to such families and an enhanced and liberalised insurance compensation, according to a release from the Press Information Bureau (PIB).Prime Minister Narendra Modi said through these schemes, efforts are being made to mitigate financial difficulties that may be faced by them.1. Family Pension under Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC)To help families live a life of dignity and maintain a good standard of living, the benefit of ESIC pension scheme for employment related death cases is being extended to even those who have died due to Covid-19. Dependent family members of such persons will be entitled to the benefit of pension equivalent to 90% of average daily wage drawn by the worker as per the existing norms. This benefit will be available retrospectively with effect from 24.03.2020 and for all such cases till March 24, 2022.2.Employees Provident Fund Organisation - Employees’ Deposit Linked Insurance Scheme (EDLI)The insurance benefits under the EDLI scheme have been enhanced and liberalized. Apart from all other beneficiaries, this will in particular help the families of employees who have lost their lives due to Covid-19. Amount of maximum insurance benefit has been increased from ₹6 lakh to ₹7 lakhThe provision of minimum insurance benefit of ₹2.5 lakh has been restored and will apply retrospectively from February 15, 2020, for the next three years.To benefit families of contractual/ casual workers, the condition of continuous employment in only one establishment has been liberalised, with benefit being made available to families of even those employees who may have changed jobs in the last 12 months preceding his death.The detailed guidelines of these schemes are being issued by the ministry of labour and employment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-announces-measures-to-help-families-who-lost-earning-member-due-to-covid19-101622300192511.html
29-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: 8-member ministerial panel to recommend GST waiver on Covid-essentials and all the latest news||\Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.8-member ministerial panel to recommend GST waiver on Covid-essentialsThe government on Saturday constituted an eight-member ministerial panel under the Meghalaya chief minister Conrad K Sangma to consider Goods and Services Tax (GST) exemptions on a range of Covid-19 essentials such as vaccines, drugs, testing kits and ventilators. Read moreAfter Kohli vs Williamson, Michael Vaughan gives his opinion on Trent Boult vs Jasprit BumrahDuring a recent interview, the former England captain had said that New Zealand captain Kane Williamson is an equally good batsman as Virat Kohli, but is not talked about as the 'best batsman' of the current era due to a lesser fan following than that of his Indian counterpart. Read moreVirat Kohli reacts after fan asks for pictures of his and Anushka Sharma’s daughter VamikaVirat Kohli, during an Ask Me Anything session on Instagram, revealed the meaning of his daughter’s name. Virat and his wife, Anushka Sharma, welcomed their baby girl, Vamika, in January this year. Read moreWhatsApp reverses stance, says will not limit account functionality if you do not accept new privacy policyWhatsApp’s new privacy policy came into effect on May 15. The Facebook-owned messaging platform had said just earlier this month that if users did not accept this new policy they would lose account functionality over time till their accounts would finally be disabled. Read moreAmrita Rao’s ‘jal lijiye’ dialogue from Vivah sparks meme-fest on TwitterIf you’re a regular social media user and is searching for some funny content, trust netizens to come up with unusual and hilarious meme templates that can easily leave you giggling hard. Case in point, this dialogue by Amrita Rao from the 2006 movie Vivah. Read moreHusband died fighting terrorists, wife joins Indian Army: Nitika Kaul's storyWife of martyr Major Vibhuti Shankar Dhoundiyal joined the Indian Army on Saturday. Nitika Kaul's induction comes two years after her husband died in a gun battle in J&K. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-8-member-ministerial-panel-to-recommend-gst-waiver-on-covid-essentials-and-all-the-latest-news-101622300845542.html
29-05-2021||India||‘First step on long road’: Army chief’s assessment of 3-month-long LoC ceasefire||New Delhi: Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane has said that the restoration of ceasefire in February between Indian and Pakistani militaries along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir is holding, has led to a significant drop in infiltration by terrorists from Pakistan and contributed to the overall sense of peace and well-being in border areas. “This is the first step on the long road to normalisation of ties between the two countries. We would like the ceasefire to continue. It has definitely led to an improvement in the security situation and benefited civilians living in forward areas,” Naravane said. In a surprise development, Indian and Pakistani militaries announced on February 25 that they had begun observing a ceasefire along the LoC from midnight of February 24. India and Pakistan had agreed to a ceasefire on the LoC in November 2003, but it was frequently violated. The army chief said the ceasefire violations by the neighbouring army were aimed at providing cover to infiltrators. No ceasefire violations by the Pakistan army indicated that infiltration attempts were not being supported, Naravane said. “Counter-terrorism operations will continue. We have no reason to believe that terror infrastructure along the LoC has been dismantled by the Pakistan army,” Naravane said. Pakistan resorted to the highest ever ceasefire violations during the 12 months preceding the joint announcement of the ceasefire in February. According to government data accessed by Hindustan Times, the Pakistani army violated the ceasefire at least a dozen times on average daily between February 2020 and February 2021. Peace along the LoC is mutually beneficial, Naravane said. “The population living on either side suffers due to violence along the LoC. I am sure the Pakistan army is also concerned about the population and hopefully, the ceasefire will hold,” the army chief said. After February 24, there has been a solitary instance of cross-border firing along the international border in the Jammu sector between the Border Security Force and Pakistan Rangers. Naravane said violence levels in Jammu and Kashmir had dropped and there were indications that things were returning to normalcy. Of the 30 terrorists killed by security forces in Kashmir during the last three months, only one was a foreigner, said officials familiar with the developments. “It’s an indicator that infiltration by Pakistani terrorists has dropped notably. We will have to wait and watch how things unfold as three months is a short window to confirm a pattern,” said one of the officials. Pakistan resorted to 4,645 violations in 2020, official data shows. The number of violations was more than 5,100 if those along the international border are also counted. August and September 2020 accounted for the highest number of violations for any two consecutive months in 17 years. The escalation in ceasefire violations coincided with the first anniversary of the Centre’s move in August 2019 to strip Jammu and Kashmir of its semi-autonomous status that Islamabad reacted sharply to. The data shows 835 ceasefire violations were reported in August and September last year. There were 427 ceasefire violations on the LoC in August 2020, the highest number for any single month since November 2003. Ceasefire violations sharply increased over the last five years, recording a 10-fold jump since 2016 when India carried out surgical strikes against terror pads in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir in response to the Islamabad-backed suicide attack on an army camp in Uri. The year 2016 accounted for 449 violations, with the numbers only increasing in the following years - 881 (2017), 1,629 (2018), and 3,168 (2019). The last time guns were silent on LoC was after Indian and Pakistani directors general of military operations held a rare meeting at the Attari-Wagah border near Amritsar on December 24, 2013, to discuss ways to restore calm along the LoC. There were no ceasefire violations by Pakistan for almost seven months after those talks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-step-on-long-road-army-chief-s-assessment-on-3-month-long-loc-ceasefire-101622300552661.html
29-05-2021||India||Govt reconstitutes 6 empowered groups into 10 to tackle Covid-19 crisis; forms panel for vaccination, oxygen||The Centre has reconstituted 6 empowered groups into 10 on Saturday to tackle the current coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in the country. The Centre has also formed a panel for vaccination and to monitor medical oxygen requirements. Niti Aayog (health) member Dr VK Paul will lead the panel on vaccination which has 10 other members who will oversee procurement, manufacturing, logistics, daily supply and utilisation and will also oversee amount of vaccine wastage. Giridhar Aramane, Union secretary, ministry of road transport and highways has been appointed convener of the empowered group to see the nation's requirements related to medical oxygen. He along with 11 others will oversee production, import, logisitics, matters related to equipment meant for transporting oxygen, PSA plants and conversion of industrial oxygen to medical oxygen. "The situation has been reviewed and a need have been felt to reconstitute the six Empowered Groups into ten Groups in order to cater the current need of Covid-19 management. Now, the undersigned in his capacity as Chairperson, National Executive Committee (NEC), in exercise of the powers conferred under section 10(2)(h) and (i) of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, hereby reconstitute these Empowered Groups as per Appendix, with the same terms and condition as have been mentioned in the Order of even number dated March 29, 2020," the order said. The reconstituted empowered groups with their conveners are as follows -||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-reconstitutes-6-empowered-groups-into-10-to-tackle-covid-19-crisis-101622298616531.html
29-05-2021||India||Centre sets up 8-member panel to consider GST waiver for Covid essentials||The government on Saturday constituted an eight-member ministerial panel under the Meghalaya chief minister Conrad K Sangma to consider Goods and Services Tax (GST) exemptions on a range of Covid-19 essentials such as vaccines, drugs, testing kits and ventilators.The other members of the group of ministers (GoM) are Gujarat deputy chief minister Nitinbhai Patel, Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, Goa transport minister Mauvin Godinho, Kerala finance minister KN Balagopal, Odisha finance minister Niranjan Pujari, Telangana finance minister T Harish Rao and UP finance minister Suresh Kumar Khanna.The GoM will submit its recommendations to the GST Council on or before June 8, the Union finance ministry said in a statement. After a protracted discussion on the issue of tax exemption at the GST Council meeting on Friday, the apex federal body decided to form a committee to examine the merit of tax waiver on individual items.According to its terms of reference, the GoM will examine the need for GST concession or exemption on Covid vaccines, drugs and medicines for Covid treatment, testing kits for Covid detection, medical grade oxygen, pulse oximeters, hand sanitisers, oxygen therapy instruments (concentrators, generators and ventilators), PPE kits, N95 masks, surgical masks, temperature checking thermometers and any other items required for Covid relief.While vaccines and cotton masks attract 5% GST, most of these items fall in the 12% tax slab. Testing kits, drugs, medical oxygen, oxygen concentrators and ventilators fall under the 12% tax bracket. Alcohol-based sanitizers, hand wash, disinfectants and thermometers attract 18% GST.The GoM was constituted after several states such as West Bengal and Punjab asked for exempting all Covid-essential materials from GST. West Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra on May 25 reiterated chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s demand for removing GST on medicines and equipment essential for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. Earlier on May 9, the West Bengal chief minister wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to seek exemption of Covid-relief materials from GST.Reacting to the letter, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had then said that GST exemption on the end product alone would distort the input tax credit system across the value chain, and eventually cost more for the consumer.“If full exemption from GST were given, domestic producers of these items would be unable to offset taxes paid on their inputs and input services and would pass these on to the end consumers by increasing their price,” she said in a tweet on May 9.Ritesh Kanodia, partner at consultancy firm Dhruva Advisors LLP said: “The issue of whether or not vaccines should be included in the exemption list has also to be seen from the perspective of whether granting the exemption will result in the passing of any effective benefit to the end consumer.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8member-ministerial-panel-to-recommend-gst-waiver-on-covidessentials-101622298511991.html
29-05-2021||India||Children who lost parents to Covid-19 to get monthly stipend under PM-CARES||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday announced that all children who have lost both parents or guardian to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) will be supported under ‘PM-CARES for Children’ scheme. Such children will get a monthly stipend once they turn 18 and a fund of ₹10 lakh when they turn 23 from PM-CARES, said the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), according to a release from the Press Information Bureau (PIB).PM Modi chaired an important meeting to discuss and deliberate on steps which can be taken to support children who have lost their parents due to Covid-19. He announced a number of benefits to children impacted by the current Covid-19 pandemic.Also read: India’s vaccine policy requires transparencyWhile announcing these measures the Prime Minister emphasised children represent the future of the country and the country will do everything possible to support and protect them so that they grow up as strong citizens and have a bright future.The PM said, "In such trying times it is our duty, as a society, to care for our children and instil hope for a bright future. All children who have lost both parents or surviving parent or legal guardian/adoptive parents due to Covid 19 will be supported under ‘PM-CARES for Children’ scheme."He also added that the measures being announced have only been possible due to the generous contributions to the PM CARES Fund which will support India’s fight against Covid-19.Here are the few measures announced by PM Modi:1. Fixed deposit in the name of the child: The PM CARES will contribute through a specially designed scheme to create a corpus of ₹10 lakh for each child when he or she reaches 18 years of age. This corpus will be used to give a monthly financial support/ stipend from 18 years of age, for the next five years to take care of his or her personal requirements during the period of higher education and on reaching the age of 23 years, he or she will get the corpus amount as a lumpsum for personal and professional use.2. School education for children under 10 years: The child will be given admission to the nearest Kendriya Vidyalaya or in a private school as a day scholar. If the child is admitted in a private school, the fees as per the RTE norms will be given from the PM CARES. The scheme will also pay for expenditure on uniforms, textbooks and notebooks.3. School education for children between 11-18 years: The child will be given admission in any central government residential school such as Sainik School, Navodaya Vidyalaya etc. In case the child is to be continued under the care of guardian/ grandparents/ extended family, then he or she will be given admission in the nearest Kendriya Vidyalaya or in a private school as a day scholar. If the child is admitted in a private school, the fees as per the RTE norms will be given from the PM CARES. The scheme will also pay for expenditure on uniforms, textbooks and notebooks.4. Support for higher education: The child will be assisted in obtaining an education loan for professional courses / higher education in India as per the existing education loan norms. The interest on this loan will be paid by the PM CARES.As an alternative, scholarship equivalent to the tuition fees / course fees for undergraduate/ vocational courses as per government norms will be provided to such children under Central or state government schemes. For children who are not eligible under the existing scholarship schemes, PM CARES will provide an equivalent scholarship.5.Health insurance: All children will be enrolled as a beneficiary under Ayushman Bharat Scheme (PM-JAY) with a health insurance cover of ₹5 lakh. The premium amount for these children till the age of 18 years will be paid by PM CARES.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/children-who-lost-parents-to-covid-19-to-get-monthly-stipend-under-pmcares-101622292190275.html
29-05-2021||India||'Goa sought preferential compensation at GST council, Tamil Nadu objected'||The Goa government sougfor ‘preference’ to smaller states for payment of the GST compensation but Tamil Nadu objected to the proposal, Goa minister Mauvin Godinho said. Transport minister Godinho, who represents the state at the GST Council, said Goa’s revenues had suffered a huge hit due to the stopping of mining and the sharp decline in tourism due to the Covid-induced restrictions.“As far as Goa is concerned, I’m making one demand again and again before the GST council. That as a small state, Goa should get preference like other small states as well for the compensation cess, the shortfall in revenue of the state, to be given for five years from July 2017. The compensation given to Goa as of now is ₹840 crore and what is due to us is almost the same amount. My simple request is that they should look at Goa differently, they should look at small states a little more than what they are paying and give us the money first. So that we will not have any financial crisis,” Godinho told reporters.Godinho, however, said that his demand was objected to by the newly appointed finance minister of Tamil Nadu, who said no undue importance should be given to small states.“He said: ‘Why should one listen to smaller states so much? Why should Goa get so much attention? I have a large constituency. Madurai is my own constituency and is bigger than the whole of Goa. My votes should have more value.’ I took strong offence to this,” Godinho said.“I want to remind the new finance minister of Tamil Nadu Mr Palanivel, refrain from conducting yourself in a manner as a big brother versus small brother or big state versus small state. We all have equal rights. His attitude should be condemned by one and all right-thinking people. He should not target Goa,” Godinho said.“The finance minister of Tamil Nadu should apologise. What is he trying to tell me? That he is against the Constitution of the country? Does he not believe in the Constitution of India? Does he not believe in equality before law? Does he not believe that whatever your status, whatever your standing in society, whether your constituency comprises lakhs of voters or a few thousand voters, everybody has got one vote,” Godinho said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-sought-preferential-compensation-at-gst-council-tamil-nadu-objected-101622293852230.html
29-05-2021||India||Ramachandran says not interested in continuing as Kerala Congress chief||Owing responsibility for the Congress-led UDF's drubbing in the Kerala Assembly elections, Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president Mullappally Ramachandran said on Saturday he was not interested in continuing in the post.Talking to reporters here, Ramachandran said after the UDF defeat in the polls, he has given a detailed report to Sonia Gandhi narrating all matters related to the elections."In that report, I have informed the Congress president that I am not interested in continuing in the post of KPCC president," he said.Ramachandran said he would continue in the post till an alternative arrangement is made.Asked about his absence in the first UDF meeting held after the assembly elections on Friday, the senior Congress leader said attending the meeting as KPCC chief was not morally correct since he has requested Sonia Gandhi to accept his resignation from the post.Ramachandran said as the PCC chief he had received full cooperation from Sonia Gandhi and party leader Rahul Gandhi."But I am saddened by the electoral defeat of the party. So I am taking the responsibility for the party's defeat," he said, adding that he has no intention to put the blame on anyone else. It was reported that the eight-time Parliamentarian has conveyed his willingness to quit but the party leadership in New Delhi asked him to continue till the selection of the new president.His move came days after the All India Congress Committee nominated senior leader V D Satheesan as the parliamentary party leader in the Assembly, replacing Ramesh Chennithala who had led the party for the last five years in the House.Speculation was rife that after the Leader of the Opposition, the KPCC chief would also be changed as the national leadership was eyeing a total revamp of the party's state unit from the grassroot level.After the Congress-led-UDF had to settle for just 41 seats of the total 140 in the April 6 Assembly polls, a group of leaders and workers, especially members of the Youth Congress, have been pressing for a complete makeover of the party's leadership structure in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ramachandran-says-not-interested-in-continuing-as-kerala-congress-chief-101622291728498.html
29-05-2021||India||'Resorting to lies': Suvendu Adhikari hits out at Mamata over meeting row||Soon after Mamata Banerjee accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of “vendetta politics”, opposition leader Suvendu Adhikari on Saturday hit out the West Bengal chief minister as the row over the meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi to review Cyclone Yaas’ impact continued.“Yesterday after the aerial survey in West Bengal there was a review meeting in East Midnapore but CM Mamata Banerjee and the administration made the PM wait for 30 minutes. It was breach of constitutional integrity and was shameful,” Suvendu Adhikari was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.“Today in a presser the CM said she didn't attend the meeting due to the presence of opposition leaders. She is resorting to lies to satisfy her ego as she thinks of herself as not just West Bengal CM but entire the country’s,” Suvendu Adhikari added.Suvendu, a former Trinamool Congress leader, also said that he invited to Friday’s review meeting as he is the leader of opposition in Bengal assembly and MLA of cyclone-hit Nandigram area.Also watch | CM Mamata versus PM Modi: Ego war and politics over Cyclone ReliefThe BJP legislator was referring to Mamata’s comments during her press conference in Kolkata as she talked about the criticism she faced from Union ministers and BJP leaders for skipping the review meeting with PM Modi on the devastation caused by Cyclone Yass. “It was supposed to be held between the PM and the CM. Why were BJP leaders called to the session?" she asked.She also claimed that opposition leaders were not invited to similar review meetings held in Gujarat and Odisha, the two states that also impacted by Cyclone Yaas over the past few days.The Bengal chief minister also accused the Centre of pursuing "vendetta politics" and appealed it to withdraw its order recalling Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay. "Because you (PM Modi and Union home minister Shah) cannot digest the BJP's defeat, you have started creating problems for us from Day One. What is the fault of the chief secretary? Recalling the chief secretary amid the Covid crisis goes on to show that the Centre was indulging in political vendetta," she said.Also read | 'So much fuss?': Mahua Moitra's dig at row over Mamata-Modi cyclone review meetOn Friday after Mamata Banerjee skipped the review meeting chaired by the Prime Minister, Suvendu Adhikari criticised her in a series of tweets. "Today is a dark day in India's long-standing ethos of cooperative federalism, a principle held sacred by by PM @narendramodi. CM @MamataOfficial has shown once again that she is insensitive to the sufferings of the people of West Bengal," Adhikari said."The way @MamataOfficial Didi behaved with PM @narendramodi reflects her dictatorial nature and lack of respect for constitutional values. Instead of working with the PM for the betterment of West Bengal, she is indulging in petty politics. Her skipping the meeting is disgusting," the BJP leader said.Also read | 134 embankments washed away, says Mamata. Ex-minister Suvendu Adhikari is targetHe pointed out that chief ministers who belong to opposition parties have worked in coordination with the Prime Minister during times of crisis in the past. And to prove his point, he shared photos of meetings between PM Modi with leaders like Pinarayi Vijayan, Naveen Patnaik, Omar Abdullah and late J Jayalalithaa. "On previous occasions, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has reviewed floods, cyclone situations with different Chief Ministers who belonged to non-NDA parties. None of these Chief Ministers behaved the way Mamata Didi behaved today. There is a time for politics and a time for governance. Didi cannot comprehend that," said Adhikari.Today is a dark day in India’s long-standing ethos of cooperative federalism, a principle held sacred by PM @narendramodi.CM @MamataOfficial has shown once again that she is insensitive to the sufferings of the people of West Bengal.Several Union ministers, including Amit Shah and Rajnath Singh, and BJP national president JP Nadda slammed Mamata for making PM Modi wait during the meeting and then leaving minutes after giving him a report on the impact of the damage caused by Cyclone Yaas. Mamata said he took the Prime Minister’s permission before leaving.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/resorting-to-lies-suvendu-adhikari-hits-out-at-mamata-over-meeting-row-101622290591086.html
29-05-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5 pm: Delhi CM starts drive-through Covid vaccination centre at Chhatrasal Stadium||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Kejriwal kickstarts drive-through Covid vaccination centre at Chhatrasal StadiumDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday launched the drive-through Covid-19 vaccination centre of the government at the Chhatrasal Stadium, where people above the age of 45 can get themselves vaccinated for free. Read more'It is the truth': Congress' Kamal Nath hits back at Centre after criticism over his 'Bharat Mahan' commentsSenior Congress leader Kamal Nath on Saturday hit out at the Centre over accusations of politicising the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as he questioned the Narendra Modi-led government why it is not revealing death records from crematoriums, swamped during the second wave of the pandemic. Read moreKamaal R Khan slams Mika Singh as publicity-hungry ‘chirkut singer’ after being called ‘gadha’ by himActor and self-proclaimed critic Kamaal R Khan, better known as KRK, lashed out at singer Mika Singh for criticising him and defending actor Salman Khan. While KRK did not take any names as he lashed out at a ‘chirkut singer’, whom he claimed was seeking ‘publicity’, the tweet comes after Mika called him a ‘gadha (donkey)’ and ‘chuha (mouse)’. Read moreIPL 2021 moved to UAE to complete remaining matches, BCCI eyes Sept-Oct windowThe Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) on Saturday decided to conduct the remainder of the Indian Premier League's (IPL 2021) 14th season in the UAE. The decision was taken at a Special General Meeting (SGM) held virtually, where members unanimously agreed to resume IPL. Read moreSamsung starts rolling out June security patch to Galaxy Z Flip 5G, Galaxy S21 seriesSamsung has reportedly started rolling out the June 2021 Android security patch to Galaxy Z Flip 5G and Galaxy S21 series. The update is already out even before the month has begun. Samsung has been quite busy rolling out updates to its family of phones, and very early too. Read moreBest man dresses as the bride to prank groom, his laugh is leaving people in splitsWeddings are indeed a fun affair and the whole event becomes a lot more entertaining when a member of the wedding party decides to pull a prank. An Instagram video shared by Raphi Pineda Rojas, the bride shows a glimpse of her wedding where the best man decided to prank her husband during the first look. The groom’s infectious laughter and the hilarious situation may leave you laughing out loud. Read moreWatch: Cop beaten up by locals after 'hitting man on head' over Covid lockdownIn a shocking video, a mob was seen attacking a policeman in Madhya Pradesh's Chhatarpur. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-delhi-cm-starts-drive-through-covid-vaccination-centre-101622284643880.html
29-05-2021||India||Over 18,000 oxygen concentrators, 770,000 vials of Remdesivir received as foreign aid sent to states: Centre||In total, 18,040 oxygen concentrators, 19,085 oxygen cylinders and nearly 7.7 lakh remdesivir vials received as aid from abroad have been delivered or dispatched to states and Union Territories from April 27 to May 28 amid the second wave of COVID-19 infection, the Union Health Ministry said on Saturday.The Government of India has been receiving COVID-19 relief in form of medical supplies and equipment since April 27 from different countries and organisations. These are being promptly dispatched and delivered to the states and UTs, it said.Cumulatively, 18,040 oxygen concentrators, 19,085 oxygen cylinders, 19 oxygen generation plants, 15,256 ventilators and BiPAP, around 7.7 lakh remdesivir vials and nearly 12 lakh favipiravir tablets have been delivered and dispatched through road and air from April 27 to May 28.Major consignments received on May 26 and 28 from Turkey, Indian Business Association (Taiwan), Roche (Switzerland) and Eli Lily include 20 oxygen concentrators, five oxygen concentrator plants, 680 oxygen cylinders, 50,000 tocilizumab, 20,000 Baricitinib, 50 ventilators, Bi-PAP and CPAP.The ministry said this also includes 680 oxygen cylinders received from Turkey, which have some compliance issues, hence they have been withheld at a warehouse.Effective immediate allocation, and streamlined delivery to the recipient states and UTs and institutions is an ongoing exercise, the ministry said, adding it is comprehensively monitoring this on a regular basis.A dedicated cell has been created in the Union Health Ministry to coordinate the receipt and allocation of foreign Covid relief material as international cooperation in the form of grants, aid and donations. This cell started functioning from April 26. A standard operating procedure for this has been framed and implemented by the Health Ministry since May 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-18-000-oxygen-concentrators-770-000-vials-of-remdesivir-received-as-foreign-aid-sent-to-states-centre-101622286889172.html
29-05-2021||India||Navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh does push-ups with NDA cadets||In a picture that went viral on social media, Chief of Naval Staff Admiral Karambir Singh was seen doing push-ups along with young cadets at the National Defence Academy (NDA) located in Khadakwasla of Maharashtra’s Pune. Admiral Singh was at the NDA to review the Passing Out Parade (POP) of the 140th course of the academy. The picture in which the 61-year-old admiral was seen doing the push-ups along with the cadets of the Hunter Squadron garnered widespread attention on social media. The Hunter Squadron is also the parent squadron of the admiral.“The Chief of Naval Staff, Admiral Karambir Singh doing Squadron Type Push Ups at NDA. Giving serious competition to the young cadets!” the public relations officer (PRO) of the ministry of defence in Udhampur tweeted on Friday.The Chief of Naval Staff, Admiral Karambir Singh doing Squadron Type Push Ups at NDA. Giving serious competition to the young cadets! #FitnessGoals pic.twitter.com/tniHbU2BEcThe public relations officer of the ministry of defence in Kohima also gave a brief account of the incident at NDA. “Admiral Karambir Singh, #CNS visited “Hunter Squadron,”National Defence Academy #NDA on 28 May 2021. Admiral said,”let’s do push-ups!” to his question of “How many?” CSM Hunter answered “As many”,” PRO Kohima tweeted on Saturday afternoon.Admiral Karambir Singh, #CNS visited “Hunter Squadron,”National Defence Academy #NDA on 28May 2021.Admiral said,”let’s do push-ups!” to his question of “How many?”CSM Hunter answered “As many”@indiannavy @IAF_MCC @ANI @DefenceMinIndia @EastMojo @SpokespersonMoD @rahulsinghx pic.twitter.com/ZaXBs7mscJIn the image shared widely on Twitter, some cadets of the squadron could be seen doing the push-ups with their knuckles. The admiral’s staff, NDA commandant and other officers present at the scene also joined him in the exercise, news agency PTI reported on Saturday, citing an official statement. “It was the CNS who initiated the push-ups with cadets and we all joined in,” PTI quoted NDA commandant Lt Gen Asit Mistry as saying.On Saturday, after his review of the POP, the admiral said that the jointness of the three defence forces is more important as the nature of war is changing. “The nature of war is changing and it is important to engage in all adversaries in all domains, like land, sea, air, space and cyber. It is for this reason that the jointness amongst the three services is far more important than in the past,” Admiral Singh was quoted as saying by PTI.He also visited the Hunter Squadron at the NDA and interacted with the young cadets and presented them a memento, PRO Kohima of the ministry of defence said on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/navy-chief-admiral-karambir-singh-does-push-ups-with-nda-cadets-101622285559446.html
29-05-2021||India||Aspergillosis: Types, symptoms, treatment explained||Amid the rising number of mucormycosis, doctors treating patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), as well as those who have recovered, have reported cases of aspergillosis. Doctors in Maharashtra’s Mumbai and Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh have said they said found patients with aspergillosis.Aspergillosis is an infection caused by Aspergillus, a common mold that lives indoors and outdoors. People can get aspergillosis by breathing in microscopic Aspergillus spores from the environment. Most of us breathe in Apergillus spores every day without getting sick but those with weakened immune systems or lung diseases are at a higher risk of developing health issues.Also read | Now, Ghaziabad hospital reports 7 cases of ‘white fungus’ infectionThe types of health problems caused by Apergillus include allergic reactions, lung infections and infections in other organs, according to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Aspergillosis is not contagious and can’t spread between people or between people and animals from the lungs.What are the types of aspergillosis?1. Allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis (ABPA): ABPA occurs when Aspergillus causes inflammation in the lungs and allergy symptoms such as coughing and wheezing, but doesn’t cause an infection.2. Allergic Aspergillus sinusitis: It occurs when Aspergillus causes inflammation in the sinuses and symptoms of a sinus infection such as drainage, stuffiness and headache but doesn’t cause an infection.3. Azole-Resistant Aspergillus fumigatus: When one species of Aspergillus, A fumigatus, becomes resistant to certain medicines used to treat it, it can lead to Azole-Resistant Aspergillus fumigatus.Also read | Covid-19 active cases down, lowest new infections in over 3 months: Govt4. Aspergilloma: Aspergilloma, also called a “fungus ball”, occurs when a ball of Aspergillus grows in the lungs or sinuses, but usually does not spread to other parts of the body.5. Chronic pulmonary aspergillosis: Chronic pulmonary aspergillosis occurs when Aspergillus infection causes cavities in the lungs and can be a long-term condition.6. Invasive aspergillosis: It happens when Aspergillus causes a serious infection and usually affects people who have weakened immune systems, such as those who have had an organ transplant or a stem cell transplant. Invasive aspergillosis most commonly affects the lungs, but it can also spread to other parts of the body.7. Cutaneous or skin aspergillosis: This occurs when Aspergillus enters the body through a break in the skin—for example, after surgery or a burn wound—and causes infection, usually in people who have weakened immune systems. It can also occur if invasive aspergillosis spreads to the skin from somewhere else in the body, such as the lungs, according to CDC.Who can get aspergillosis?According to the US health body, different types of aspergillosis affect different groups of people.1. Allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis (ABPA) most often occurs in people who have cystic fibrosis or asthma.2. Aspergillomas usually affect people who have other lung diseases like tuberculosis. Also called a “fungus ball.”Also read | India adds 173,790 fresh Covid-19 cases to tally, lowest in 45 days3. Chronic pulmonary aspergillosis typically occurs in people who have other lung diseases, including tuberculosis, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), or sarcoidosis.4. Invasive aspergillosis affects people who have weakened immune systems, such as people who have had a stem cell transplant or organ transplant, are getting chemotherapy for cancer, or are taking high doses of corticosteroids. Invasive aspergillosis has been described among hospitalised patients with severe influenza.What are the symptoms of aspergillosis?According to CDC, the different types of aspergillosis can cause different symptoms. The symptoms of allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis (ABPA) are similar to asthma symptoms, including wheezing, shortness of breath, cough and fever (in rare cases).Stuffiness, runny nose, headache and reduced ability to smell are among symptoms of allergic Aspergillus sinusitis. Symptoms of an aspergilloma or “fungus ball” include cough, coughing up blood and shortness of breath. Those who get chronic pulmonary aspergillosis complain of weight loss, cough, coughing up blood, fatigue and shortness of breath.Also read | To end pandemic, 70% need to be vaccinatedFever is a common symptom of invasive aspergillosis. Invasive aspergillosis usually occurs in people who are already sick from other medical conditions, so it can be difficult to know which symptoms are related to an Apergillus infection. However, the symptoms of invasive aspergillosis in the lungs fever, chest pain, cough, coughing up blood and shortness of breath. CDC says other symptoms can develop if the infection spreads from the lungs to other parts of the body.TreatmentReports said aspergillosis is generally treated with Voriconazole and that doctors are also treating patients with an antifungal medicine - Isavuconazole.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aspergillosis-types-symptoms-treatment-explained-101622283434347.html
29-05-2021||India||PM Modi to address nation through Mann Ki Baat tomorrow||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation through his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat on Sunday as the country battles the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. It will be the 77th episode of the show and will be streamed live at 11am on PM Modi's official YouTube channel, as well as on PMO. It will also be broadcast in regional languages immediately after the Hindi broadcast on All India Radio. The regional language versions will be repeated at 8 in the evening.This comes as India is in the midst of the Covid-19 crisis and the Centre is facing massive criticism by the opposition parties over the handling of the pandemic and the shortage of Covid-19 vaccines. Several states including Delhi and Maharashtra, have halted their vaccination drive for people in the age group of 18 to 44. Citing vaccine shortage.Earlier, the Indian Medical Association (IMD) appealed to PM Modi to speak on the importance of vaccination to motivate beneficiaries in the upcoming Mann Ki Baat episodes.In the last episode of Mann Ki Baat, PM Modi spoke to healthcare workers at the forefront of the fight against Covid-19 and addressed several topics such as vaccine hesitancy. The Prime Minister also spoke to an ambulance driver Prem Verma as he lauded the efforts of other frontline workers such as lab technicians.On reports of people testing positive for the coronavirus disease even after receiving the vaccine, PM Modi said that if someone is vaccinated, they may get infected but the severity of the disease will not be that high.He also said that the ongoing second wave of Covid-19 is testing our patience and capacity to bear the pain. "I am speaking to you at a time when Covid-19 is testing our patience and capacity to bear the pain. Many of our loved ones left us untimely. After successfully tackling the first wave, the nation's morale was high, it was confident but this storm (second wave) has shaken the nation," PM Modi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-nation-through-mann-ki-baat-tomorrow-101622283466370.html
29-05-2021||India||BJP to hold programmes in West Bengal from June 1 to discuss post-poll violence||In view of the post-poll violence that took place in West Bengal, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) decided to hold public programmes to discuss upon the prevalent issues, as per party sources on Saturday.It will be the party's first outreach programme after the post-poll violence in the state. BJP has decided to organise a three-day programme between June 1-3.The BJP will conduct video conferences with party workers who hold positions up to the district level and with a virtual audience of 300-400 people. During these programmes, 20 minutes will be kept aside for a Question and Answer (Q &A) session. The party aims to spread awareness about the 'West Bengal violence', that took place in this year's Assembly election, among its cadres through social media and other media outlets.The core theme of these programmes will be 'Democracy being undermined in West Bengal with heinous crimes'.Unlike previously held polls, West Bengal witnessed a lot of post-poll violence. BJP sources have claimed that they have lost many workers after a post poll violence erupted following the election results in the state. The current West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has won this Assembly election for the third term in a row.On many occasions, several BJP leaders said that before this year's Assembly election results were announced, BJP lost hundreds of its leaders in political killings in the last two years. In this year's post poll violence in the state, several leaders said that they have lost more than three dozen of our party workers. Many even alleged that these killings were incited by the Trinamool Congress party."Now with these programmes, the party aims to bring light upon Mamata Banerjee-led government and its polices. BJP aims to reach out to its workers in the whole country and tell them and make them aware about what is happening in West Bengal. The party aims to give messages to its cadres in West Bengal that Bharatiya Janta Party stands with all its workers and will continue to stand with them," the sources cited.Meanwhile, the West Bengal government on Tuesday informed the Supreme Court that three people have been arrested in connection with the alleged killing of two BJP workers in post-election violence on May 2 in the state.A bench of Justice Vineet Saran and BR Gavai was informed that FIRs have been registered in these cases and that the investigation is going on.The Bench posted the matter for hearing after two weeks.Several violent incidents were reported after supporters of TMC and BJP allegedly clashed in various parts of the state since May 2, killing at least 16 people and triggering an alleged exodus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-to-hold-programmes-in-west-bengal-from-june-1-to-discuss-post-poll-violence-101622282103761.html
29-05-2021||India||'It is the truth': Congress' Kamal Nath hits back at Centre after criticism over his 'Bharat Mahan' comments||Senior Congress leader Kamal Nath on Saturday hit out at the Centre over accusations of politicising the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as he questioned the Narendra Modi-led government why it is not revealing death records from crematoriums, swamped during the second wave of the pandemic."If I ask for data, they file an FIR. When I say 'Bharat Mahan' and that we were proud to say it but now the situation has hit 'Bharat Mahan', they call me traitor; several bodies reached crematoria and their records are available. They should reveal it, what's the difficulty?" asked the former chief minister of Madhya Pradesh, according to news agency ANI. "When I ask for this, they say I'm doing politics," he also said, adding, "When I speak of vaccines and ask for information regarding who all were administered the doses, what is wrong in it?""They say I am doing politics over corpses. This isn't a criticism, it is the truth," he further said.President of Madhya Pradesh Congress Committee, Kamal Nath was booked on March 24 for allegedly creating panic and maligning the image of India internationally by referring to the B.1.617 variant of Covid-19 as the "Indian variant" and claiming that it was responsible for the second wave of the pandemic. The case was registered on the complaint of the medical education department minister, Vishwas Sarang, and other BJP leaders.On Friday as well, Kamal Nath stoked another controversy as he said that India is not a great but "infamous country" as he criticised the Centre over its handling of the Covid-19 pandemic. "Mera Bharat mahan nahi hai, badnam hai (My country is not great but infamous). The whole world is looking at the worst condition of Covid-19 in India," said the Congress veteran.He also alleged Indian living abroad are facing discrimination due to the mishandling of the crisis in the country. "A person told me that the people in New York are afraid of sitting in taxis driven by Indians," he also claimed.The comments evoked sharp reactions from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) as the Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan called for his resignation. “Kamal Nath has lost his mental balance and he has no right to call himself a citizen of India. AICC president Sonia Gandhi should sack him from the party,” the chief minister said.India has been battling the deadly second wave of Covid-19 since the last two weeks of April. The number of daily cases fatalities has now dipped below record levels; however, the concerns remain as the daily number of infections is hovering above 100,000.On Saturday, daily cases fell to the lowest in 45 days as 1,73,790 found to be positive of Covid-19 over the last 24 hours. The death toll surged to 322,512 after 3,617 fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-is-the-truth-congress-kamal-nath-hits-back-at-centre-after-criticism-over-his-bharat-mahan-comments-101622283117063.html
29-05-2021||India||Here's a list of states that are under Covid-19 lockdown till June 7||Amid a rising second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), several states have extended the lockdown till June 7 in order to curb the spread of the infection.India on Saturday recorded 1,73,790 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the cumulative tally past 27.7 million, according to the Union health ministry. At least 3,617 people have died due to the coronavirus disease, data updated at 8am showed. As many as 322,512 people have succumbed to the infection in the country, according to the health ministry.Here's a list of states that have extended the Covid-19 lockdown till June 7:1. Goa--The government of Goa has decided to extend the Covid-19 curfew till 7am of June 7. "Government of Goa has decided to extend the curfew till 7 am of 7th June 2021," tweeted Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant.2. Tamil Nadu--The state-wide lockdown without relaxations to help break the chain of Covid-19 transmission has been extended till June 7 by one more week, chief minister M K Stalin has announced.3. Karnataka--The Karnataka government has extended the statewide lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19 till 6am on June 7, informed chief minister B S Yediyurappa.4. Himachal Pradesh--The Himachal Pradesh government has extended the coronavirus curbs till June 7 but announced relaxations, including increase in the opening hours of shops, an official spokesperson said.5. Arunachal Pradesh--The Arunachal Pradesh government has decided to extend the lockdown in seven districts till June 7 following a surge in Covid-19 cases, senior officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heres-a-list-of-states-that-are-under-covid-19-lockdown-till-june-7-101622280159217.html
29-05-2021||India||Govt's lack of planning, incompetence responsible for oxygen crisis: Priyanka Gandhi||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra Saturday blamed the government's alleged incompetence and lack of planning for the medical oxygen crisis during the second wave of coronavirus in the country, and said it must answer the public for the lives lost to Covid-19.Taking forward her "Zimmedaar Kaun (who is responsible)" campaign, under which she has been asking questions of the government over its handling of the pandemic, she said it's time for the ruling dispensation to answer for its actions.She alleged that India increased its oxygen exports by "700 per cent during 2020 and did not make any efforts to import oxygen" when the demand in the country skyrocketed during the second Covid wave."It is clear that the Modi government's lack of planning and incompetence are responsible for the shortage of oxygen that devastated lives in the second wave. Now, it's time for them to answer to the public," she said in a Facebook post.She asked as to why there was "no contingency plan" for the supply of oxygen."Why was the advice of the Empowered Group-VI summarily ignored? Why was no provision made for increasing the number of cryogenic tankers, when by all accounts a second wave was imminent?" she asked.Vadra said as the second wave of Covid raged across the country, almost every state began reporting a shortage of oxygen and many people died gasping for air. "Who is responsible for the lack of oxygen in hospitals across India?""Why were the recommendations of the Parliamentary Committee on Health ignored, she asked. "And no control exercised on the price of oxygen cylinders and their refilling."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govts-lack-of-planning-incompetence-responsible-for-oxygen-crisis-priyanka-gandhi-101622281471894.html
29-05-2021||India||As petrol crosses ₹100/ltr in Mumbai, here are fuel prices in other cities||Petrol prices in India reached a new all-time high in India after fuel prices were increased for the 15th time this month. According to a notification from the state-owned fuel retailers, petrol price was hiked by 26 paise a litre and diesel price increased by 28 paise a litre. The price of petrol crossed ₹100 per litre in Mumbai on Saturday and already breached that mark in several districts across states like Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Rajasthan. Diesel price was also increased in Mumbai and is currently being sold at ₹92.17 per litre.Local taxes levied by state governments contribute to the varying fuel prices between states. Rajasthan charges the highest Value Added Tax (VAT) on petrol among other states in India, followed by Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan.As petrol prices reached ₹100 per litre in India’s financial capital, here is a look at fuel prices in other cities of the country:Petrol prices were at the highest in Rajasthan’s Sri Ganganagar district, where it was sold at ₹104.94 per litre and diesel at ₹97.79 a litre. In Jaipur, the prices were ₹100.44 per litre for petrol and ₹93.66 per litre for diesel. It reached new heights in Madhya Pradesh too, as it was sold at ₹102.04 per litre and diesel cost ₹93.37 per litre in Bhopal.Among other metro cities, in the national capital of Delhi, petrol reached ₹93.94 per litre and diesel reached ₹84.89 per litre. In neighbouring Uttar Pradesh’s Lucknow, petrol cost ₹91.41 per litre and diesel was priced at ₹85.28 per litre. In Tamil Nadu’s capital city of Chennai petrol cost ₹95.51 per litre and Diesel cost ₹89.65 per litre on Saturday.In Karnataka’s Bengaluru, petrol was being sold at ₹97.07 per litre and diesel was sold at ₹89.99 per litre. The prices in Telangana’s Hyderabad also soared as petrol was priced at ₹97.63 per litre and diesel at ₹92.54 per litre. In Kolkata, petrol and diesel were sold at ₹93.97 per litre and ₹87.74 per litre respectively. Meanwhile, in Chandigarh, petrol was sold at ₹90.36 per litre and diesel cost ₹84.55 per litre.(Prices based on Indian Oil website)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-petrol-crosses-rs-100-ltr-in-mumbai-here-are-fuel-prices-in-other-cities-101622277533654.html
29-05-2021||India||Over 4 lakh Covid vaccine doses to be given to states, UTs in next 3 days: Govt||As some states are engaged in floating global tenders for covid-19 vaccine supply, the Central government has so far provided, both through the free of cost category and through direct state procurement category, 22,77,62,450 vaccine doses to the states and union territories.Furthermore, more than 4 lakh (4,86,180) vaccine doses are in the pipeline and will be received by the states and union territories in the next three days, the Union health ministry said on Saturday.The ministry said that more than 1,82,21,403 COVID vaccine doses are still available with the states and union territories to be administered."Of this, the total consumption, including wastages is 20,80,09,397 doses (as per data available at 8 am today)," it said.The Union health ministry said that nearly 20,89,02,445 vaccine doses were administered so far under the nationwide vaccination drive.The implementation of the Liberalized and Accelerated Phase-3 Strategy of Covid-19 vaccination was started on May 1.Under the Strategy, every month 50 per cent of the total Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL) cleared vaccine doses of any manufacturer would be procured by Government of India. It would continue to make these doses available to the State Govts totally free of cost as was being done earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-4-lakh-covid-vaccine-doses-to-be-given-to-states-uts-in-next-3-days-govt-101622277247788.html
29-05-2021||India||Remdesivir supply surpasses demand; Centre to discontinue allocations to states||The Centre on Saturday said as the production of Remdesivir has surpassed the demand, the Centre will now discontinue the central allocation of the anti-viral drug to states. The overall Covid-19 situation of the country has stabilised in the past few days and on Saturday, the country recorded 1.73 lakh fresh Covid-19 infection, the lowest in the last 45 days.Union minister of state for chemicals and fertilisers Mansukh Mandaviya said Remdesivir production has been ramped up 10 times from 33,000 vials per day to 3.5 lakh vials per day between April 11 and May 29. Instead of 20 plants, now 60 plants are producing Remdesivir and all of this has contributed to the surplus production of the drug. While the availability of the drug across the country will continue to be monitored, the Centre will create a stock of 50 lakh vials of Remdesivir for an emergency.But I have also directed @nppa_india & @CDSCO_INDIA_INF to continuously monitor the availability of Remdesivir in the country. Government of India has also decided to procure 50 lakh vials of #Remdesivir to maintain it as a strategic stock for the emergency requirement. (3/3)During the peak of the second wave of the pandemic in April, there was an acute shortage of Remdesivir across the country. The drug, which is only to be used in severe cases were hoarded, black-marketed which too contributed to the shortage.To scale up the production and to meet the domestic requirement, the export of Remdesivir was also prohibited on April 11. From the third week of April, the Centre started allocating Remdesivir to states.What is Remdesivir?Remdesivir is a patented drug that was recommended as an investigational therapy drug given in acute and severe Covid-19. This drug is to be administered only to patients under oxygen support. Seven pharmaceutical companies, including Cipla, Dr Reddy’s Lab., Hetero, Jubilant Pharma, Mylan, Syngene and Zydus Cadila, manufacture Remdesivir in India under voluntary licences granted by Gilead Life Sciences USA, the company which holds the patent of Remdesivir.Is Remdesivir life-saving?As hoarding of Remdesivir led to its shortage to some extent, the Union health ministry reiterated that Remdesivir is not a magic bullet. Neither it has proved to be life-saving. "It is important to understand that Remdesivir is not a magic bullet and is not a drug that decreases mortality. We may use it due to lack of an antiviral drug and it is useless if given at an early state to asymptomatic individuals or to patients with mild symptoms. It is also ineffective if administered late,” AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria said earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/remdesivir-supply-surpasses-demand-centre-to-discontinue-allocations-to-states-101622275887059.html
29-05-2021||India||2 years after he died fighting terrorists in Pulwama, Major VS Dhoundiyal's wife Nitika Kaul joins army||Two years after her husband Major Vibhuti Shankar Dhoundiyal died in a gun battle with Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) terrorists in Kashmir's Pulwama, Nitika Kaul on Saturday joined the Indian Army. The chief of the army's Northern Command Lieutenant General YK Joshi piped stars on Kaul’s shoulders during a ceremony at the Officers Training Academy in Tamil Nadu’s Chennai.“#MajVibhutiShankarDhoundiyal, made the Supreme Sacrifice at #Pulwama in 2019, was awarded SC (P). Today his wife @Nitikakaul dons #IndianArmy uniform; paying him a befitting tribute. A proud moment for her as Lt Gen Y K Joshi, #ArmyCdrNC himself pips the Stars on her shoulders!” PRO Udhampur said in a tweeted and shared a video.Lt Nitika Kaul gives befitting tribute to her husband #MajVibhutiShankarDhoundiyal, SC(P) who made supreme sacrifice at #Pulwama 2019; As she dons the Olive Green #IndianArmy uniform. A proud moment as #LtGenYKJoshi, #ArmyCdrNC pips the stars on shoulders & welcomes her to #AOC pic.twitter.com/Hg9NQlJtjTKaul, who is from Kashmir, cleared the Short Service Commission (SSC) examination as well as the interview in 2020 and said it was her way of paying a “real tribute” to the officer and feeling close to him. Kaul's move to join the army has been praised by several, who called it a befitting tribute to her late husband and a “truly inspirational story”.Also read: Army officer died fighting terrorists last year. Now, 28-yr-old wife signs up“I took my own time to recover from the major loss and the decision to sit for the Short Service Commission examination happened gradually. Just filling the form in September last year was a big decision. But I had decided that I want to walk on a similar path like my husband,” Kaul said explaining her decision to join the army.The gunbattle which claimed Major Dhoundiyal's life took place about 15km away from the spot where 40 troopers of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) died in a suicide attack on a convoy by JeM’s Adil Ahmed Dar on February 14, 2019. Major Dhoundiyal was awarded Shaurya Chakra for his sacrifice for the nation.They were married in April 2019 and Major Dhoundiyal planned to celebrate their first wedding anniversary at home.Fifteen days after Major Dhoundiyal's death, Kaul resumed her job and said she wanted to stand up on her feet again. It was not easy to get back to normal life after her husband’s death, Kaul said, adding that she “drowned herself in work, hoping the pain will ease…”“I went back to work around 15 days after my husband’s death because I wanted to keep myself busy. It is natural to have a breakdown but we needed to accept the situation. I had to find positivity in my daily routine and stand up on my feet once again,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-years-after-he-died-fighting-terrorists-in-pulwama-major-vs-dhoundiyal-s-wife-nitika-kaul-joins-army-101622264389776.html
29-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: India's new Covid-19 cases lowest in over 3 months, says govt and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19 active cases down, lowest new infections in over 3 months: GovtIndia’s active caseload of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has come down to 22,28,724 and cases have decreased since the last peak on May 10, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Saturday. Read more'Nothing against Ramdev but': IMA chief on withdrawing complaint against yoga guruIMA national chief Dr JA Jayalal said on Friday that the association has nothing against Ramdev and it will take back police complaints once the yoga guru withdraws his remarks against modern medicine. Read moreAmul MD replies to PETA, asks who will give livelihood to dairy farmersThe People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA), an American animal rights organisation, urged Amul India to switch over to producing vegan milk instead of dairy milk, as a response to changes happening in the market. Read moreHeading abroad? Kerala, Mumbai have new rules for fast Covid-19 vaccinationPeople who have international travels scheduled for work or studies will be given priorities in vaccination against Covid-19 in Mumbai and Kerala, according to the latest decisions taken by the authorities. Read moreWe should be ready for that in future: Former Pakistan bowler names surprise pick as India skipper for tour of Sri LankaThe BCCI is yet to announce India's squad for the tour of Sri Lanka, but already the big question doing the rounds is who is the likely candidate to lead the team in the absence of major players. Read moreMika Singh slams 'gadha, chuha' Kamaal R Khan, claims he has videos of KRK begging for forgivenessSinger Mika Singh, who has worked with Salman Khan several times, has defended him amid the actor's legal tussle with self-proclaimed critic Kamaal R Khan, better known as KRK. Read moreMahindra Thar SUV gets over 55,000 bookings, but long waiting period continuesThe second generation Mahindra Thar SUV continues to get good response from customers even after eight months of its launch. The iconic Indian off-road SUV has now crossed 55,000 bookings. Read moreMasaba Gupta shares her quick natural makeup routine, fans say you don't need itFashion designer Masaba Gupta has been sharing a lot about her daily workout routines and glimpses from her healthy, clean meals. Read moreAmul shares FRIENDS Reunion special doodle, gets shout-out from fansThe much-anticipated Friends Reunion special aired on May 27, that took millions of fans of the popular show on a trip down memory lane. Now, Amul has dedicated an adorable doodle for the special show. Read moreCM Mamata versus PM Modi: Ego war and politics over Cyclone ReliefThe confrontation between West Bengal chief minister Mamata Bannerjee and the Narendra Modi led government at the centre appears even more ferocious than Cyclone Yaas which hit coastal Odisha and West Bengal a few days ago. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-india-s-new-covid-19-cases-lowest-in-over-3-months-101622272631087.html
29-05-2021||India||Heading abroad? Kerala, Mumbai have new rules for fast Covid-19 vaccination||People who have international travels scheduled for work or studies will be given priorities in vaccination against Covid-19 in Mumbai and Kerala, according to the latest decisions taken by the authorities. No foreign country has made vaccination against Covid-19 must for entry and a negative RT-PCR report is an acceptable document for international travel. But as restrictions are easing across the world with the pandemic situation coming under control, countries may make complete vaccination a must for entry. Several countries put an embargo on Indian flights in the wake of the second wave of the pandemic in the country in April.Student vaccination in MumbaiThe Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation will conduct free walk-in vaccination centres for students who have received the confirmation of admission in universities abroad and require vaccines. The sessions will be held from May 31 to June 2 at three centres — Rajawadi, Cooper and Kasturba.For students who have received confirmation of admission in universities abroad & require vaccines for the same, the @mybmc has arranged free, walk in vaccination this coming Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday (31st May, 1st, 2nd June) at 3 centres- Rajawadi, Cooper & Kasturba (1/n)We have received multiple queries with regard to the gap between the two doses and the scheduled/ possible departure of students for overseas universities. Since it is a medical advice, @mybmc will discuss with the concerned authorities for the same to assist the students.Maharashtra minister Aaditya Thackeray said he will speak to other municipal corporations across the state to implement the same for such students. Though the number may not be huge, their career should not be put at stake, the minister tweeted.Documents requiredThe students need to carry I- 20 or DS- 160 form/ verified confirmation letter of admission to universities concerned, along with personal ID documents.Fast vaccination in KeralaThe Kerala government will issue Covid-19 vaccine certificated to students and professionals who need to travel abroad. The state government said many countries want passport number mentioned on the vaccination certificate and hence the government will issue such certificates to those who require.This will be in addition to the certificate available on Co-WIN. The government said district medical officers will be authorised as the competent authority to issue such certificates.Those who have got the first dose of Covishield and can't wait for 12 to 16 weeks for the second dose, as stipulated according to the lastest directive, will also be administered the second dose after four to six weeks, the government said.Documents requiredLive visa, admission document for students, any document of job confirmation or work permit, as reported by ANI.What is a vaccine passport?This is a concept that is being deliberated by countries. Under this, countries may allow the entry of people from other countries, only if they are vaccinated. Countries may also specify the names of the vaccines.However, the Union health ministry said that there has been no consensus on vaccine passport at the World Health Organization level. So speculations that people vaccinated with Covaxin will not be able to travel abroad as Covaxin has not yet received the nod from WHO are unfounded, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heading-abroad-kerala-mumbai-have-new-rules-for-fast-covid-19-vaccination-101622268846737.html
29-05-2021||India||Covid-19 active cases down, lowest new infections in over 3 months: Govt||India’s active caseload of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has come down to 22,28,724 and cases have decreased since the last peak on May 10, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Saturday. There were 173,790 cases of the coronavirus disease and 3617 deaths in the last 24 hours, which have pushed India's tally to 27,729,247, according to the health ministry’s dashboard updated at 8am.Here’s what the health ministry said about India’s Covid-19 tally:1. India has recorded less than 300,000 daily Covid-19 cases for 13 consecutive days. Less than 200,000 new cases of the coronavirus disease are being reported since the last two days, the health ministry said.2. “A net decline of 1,14,428 is witnessed in the last 24 hours and active cases are now only 8.04% of the country's total Positive Cases,” the health ministry said in a release.Also read | To end pandemic, 70% need to be vaccinated3. The 3617 new fatalities include 973 from Maharashtra, 486 from Tamil Nadu, 401 from Karnataka, 194 from Kerala, 176 from Punjab, 154 from Uttar Pradesh, 145 from West Bengal, 139 from Delhi and 103 from Andhra Pradesh.4. According to the ministry’s dashboard, 93,198 deaths were reported from Maharashtra, 27,806 from Karnataka, 23,951 from Delhi, 22,775 from Tamil Nadu, 20,053 from Uttar Pradesh, 15,120 from West Bengal, 14,180 from Punjab and 12,915 from Chhattisgarh.5. India’s daily recoveries continued to outnumber the new cases for the 16th consecutive day. According to the ministry, 284,601 people recovered in the last 24 hours and that there were 110,811 more recoveries during the last 24 hours as compared to the daily cases.Also read | Centre allocates vaccines for June as many states complain about doses sanctioned6. Out of the people infected since beginning of the pandemic 25,178,011 have already recovered from Covid-19. This constitutes an overall recovery rate of 90.80%.7. The ministry said 20,80,048 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours in the country and cumulatively India has conducted 341.1 million tests so far.8. A continued decline in weekly case positivity has also been seem, the health ministry said. Weekly positivity rate is currently at 9.84% while the daily positivity rate has reduced and is at 8.36% on Saturday. It has remained less than 10% for 5 consecutive days now.Also read | ‘Will vaccinate all by end of year’: Javadekar hits back at Congress9. The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has exceeded 208.9 million on Saturday. India is the second country after the US to achieve the vaccination landmark of 200 million, according to the ministry.10. According to the health ministry, 20,89,02,445 vaccine doses have been administered through 29,72,971 sessions based on the provisional report till 7am on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-active-cases-down-lowest-new-infections-in-over-3-months-govt-101622267243154.html
29-05-2021||India||'So much fuss?': Mahua Moitra's dig as ministers slam Mamata for 'making PM Modi wait'||The meeting between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee over cyclone Yaas snowballed into a bigger political controversy as all BJP ministers, party chief ministers slammed Mamata for making PM Modi wait and then leaving the meeting just giving him a report. Shortly after this, the Centre invoked the All India Services Rule and directed the state government to relieve chief secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay, asking him to report at the North Block office of the department of training and personnel in Delhi on May 31.Mamata said she took PM Modi's permission before leaving the meeting which was attended by Union ministers Dharmendra Pradhan and Debasree Chaudhuri, governor Jagdeep Dhankhar and leader of the opposition in West Bengal Suvendu Adhikari.So much fuss over an alleged 30 min wait?Indians waiting 7 years for ₹15 lakhsWaiting hours at ATM queuesWaiting months for vaccines due Thoda aap bhi wait kar lijiye kabhi kabhi...The PM should also wait sometimes, Trinamool MP Mahua Moitra said comparing this to the wait of people for vaccines and for ₹15 lakhs in bank accounts. "So much fuss over an alleged 30 min wait? Indians waiting 7 years for ₹15 lakhs. Waiting hours at ATM queues. Waiting months for vaccines due. Thoda aap bhi wait kar lijiye kabhi kabhi...," she wrote.Mamata Didi’s conduct today is an unfortunate low. Cyclone Yaas has affected several common citizens and the need of the hour is to assist those affected. Sadly, Didi has put arrogance above public welfare and today’s petty behaviour reflects that.आपदा काल में बंगाल की जनता को सहायता देने के भाव से आए हुए प्रधानमंत्री के साथ इस प्रकार का व्यवहार पीड़ादायक है।जन सेवा के संकल्प व संवैधानिक कर्तव्य से ऊपर राजनैतिक मतभेदों को रखने का यह एक दुर्भाग्यपूर्ण उदहारण है, जो भारतीय संघीय व्यवस्था की मूल भावना को भी आहत करने वाला है।The episode on Friday drew a volley of attacks as Union home minister Amit Shah said Mamata's conduct was an "unfortunate low". Defence minister Rajnath Singh said Mamata's conduct was shocking and painful. BJP chief JP Nadda said Mamata's action was dangerous for "cooperative federalism".Union minister Prakash Javadekar said it was a black day in India's rich democratic heritage. "As the Prime Minister of India is kept waiting for a meeting held to expedite assistance to the people of WB, the petulance shown by the CM of Bengal is shocking indeed. For once she could’ve put petty politics aside, the spirit of cooperative federalism is the need of the hour," Union minister Smriti Irani said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/so-much-fuss-mahua-moitra-s-dig-as-ministers-slam-mamata-for-making-pm-modi-wait-101622264579388.html
29-05-2021||India||Amul MD replies to PETA, asks who will give livelihood to dairy farmers||The People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA), an American animal rights organisation, urged Amul India to switch over to producing vegan milk instead of dairy milk, as a response to changes happening in the market. PETA wrote a letter to Amul managing director RS Sodhi urging Amul “to benefit from the booming vegan food and milk market”. This set off a chain of reactions on TwitterHere is what happened||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amul-replies-to-peta-asks-who-will-give-livelihood-to-100-million-dairy-farmers-101622263509226.html
29-05-2021||India||Bharatpur doctor couple killed for revenge, accused identified: Police||The two men, who stopped and shot at a doctor couple travelling in their car in the heart of Rajasthan’s Bharatpur, have been identified, police said, according to news agency ANI on Saturday. Dr Sudeep Gupta and his wife Dr Seema Gupta were shot at five times and they died on the spot on Friday afternoon."We have identified the accused. Investigation revealed that one of the accused is the brother of the 2019 incident's victim, who was murdered. Search is underway," a police official was quoted as saying by ANI.The police official was referring to the murder of a 25-year-old woman Deepa Gurjar and her six-year-old son in November 2019. The couple was arrested in connection with the case and was out on bail. Police had then said the woman had an affair with Dr Sudeep Gupta. Police initially arrested his wife for the double murder and later arrested Dr Sudeep Gupta for conspiracy.Also watch | Watch: Doctor couple shot dead by bike-borne assailant in broad daylightAccording to news agency PTI, Bharatpur’s inspector general of police Prasanna Kumar Khamesra said one of the attackers is Anuj Gurjar, the brother of Deepa Gurjar, and that he was accompanied by Mahesh, a friend from Dholpur. Khamesra said they were killed to avenge Deepa Gurjar’s murder, according to reports.The two men, tailing the couple in their motorcycle, stopped them at Bharatpur’s Neemda Gate area, blocked their compact sports utility vehicle and shot at them. The crime was captured by a traffic camera and showed the pillion rider, who had his face covered in a pink handwoven towel, walking up to Dr Sudeep, pulling out his weapon and shooting at him through the window on the driver’s side of the vehicle.According to the police, the first shot appeared to have hit Dr Sudeep Gupta in the head. The gunman fired at least three rounds of shots in quick succession at Dr Seema Gupta, sitting on the passenger’s seat next to her husband.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharatpur-doctor-couple-killed-for-revenge-accused-identified-police-101622262984687.html
29-05-2021||India||'Nothing against Ramdev but': IMA chief on withdrawing complaint against yoga guru||Amid the ongoing tussle between yoga guru Ramdev and the Indian Medical Association, IMA national chief Dr JA Jayalal said on Friday that the association has nothing against Ramdev and it will take back police complaints once the yoga guru withdraws his remarks against modern medicine. "We have nothing against yoga guru Baba Ramdev. His statements are against vaccination for Covid-19. We think his statements could confuse people, may divert them. This is our big concern as he has many followers," Dr Jayalal said to news agency PTI.The exchange of barbs between the yoga guru and the medical association has been going on without any sign of de-escalation, though Ramdev withdraws the video from where it all started — where the yoga guru was seen commenting derogatorily on allopathy. It was claimed that he was reading WhatsApp messages and was not expressing his opinion.Also Read: Ramdev fired 25 questions at IMA on allopathy. He gets a responseBut the tussle did not end as in another video the yoga guru was seen saying that nobody's father can arrest him. He also lobbed 25 questions to IMA and asked why modern medicine has not found the permanent treatment of hypertension. If Ramdev comes forward to withdraw his remark in its entirety, then the IMA will consider taking back the complaint and the defamation notice, Dr Jayalal said.Meanwhile, the Uttarakhand chapter of the Indian Medical Association responded to Ramdev's 25 questions and challenged Patanjali Togpeeth for an open, televised debate on allopathy.The allopathy versus Ayurveda row took a new turn as Patanjali Ayurved Limited managing director and Ramdev aide Acharya Balkrishna accused the IMA of being part of a conspiracy to convert the entire country into Christianity. Responding to this, Dr Jayalal said, "How does the question of religion even come here? This is purely a diversionary tactic by vested interests and nothing more. All my life I have served people without differentiating them on any basis and I would continue to serve them."(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nothing-against-ramdev-but-ima-chief-on-withdrawing-complaint-against-yoga-guru-101622259282537.html
29-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Vaccine production cannot be ramped up overnight, explains govt and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Vaccine production can't be ramped up overnight, Centre explains whyThe Union health ministry on Friday said vaccine production takes time and even if the production is being ramped up, it will not be translated to an increase in the immediate supply as this is not an overnight process. Read MoreGovt may ease battery PLI rules as companies raise concernsIndia may relax some of the conditions set in the ₹18,100 crore production linked incentive (PLI) scheme to attract investments from a host of companies in the energy and power sector. Read MoreZerodha plans Rs.200-crore ESOP buybackOnline brokerage Zerodha aims to roll out a buyback plan for its employees worth Rs.200 crore at a self-assessed valuation of $2 billion, a senior executive of the company told Mint on Friday. Read MoreBS Yediyurappa stares at fighting a lone political battleKarnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa stares at fighting a lone battle against the growing tide of dissent with at least half of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislators now firmly picking their sides, people aware of the developments said. Read MoreThere will come a time when Kohli will say 'enough, let him lead the side': Ex-chief selector bats for split captaincyFormer India chairman of selectors Kiran More believes there will come a time when India captain Virat Kohli hands over the reins of at least one format to current white-ball vice-captain Rohit Sharma. Read MoreHuma Qureshi is the queen of quirky prints in ₹23k indigo mini kaftan dressHuma Qureshi has lately been nailing a lot of looks. The actor who is busy promoting her recently released web series, has been slaying in all styles. Read MoreAnupam Kher slams journalist's 'unbelievably insensitive' remarks about wife Kirron Kher: 'Shame on you'Actor Anupam Kher on Friday slammed a journalist for implying that he is 'changing his colours' because his wife Kirron Kher 'has been asked to vacate her plum seat in Chandigarh' due to her illness. Read More‘Mehul Choksi not abducted by force’: Antigua and Barbuda police chiefAntigua and Barbuda police chief Atlee Rodney said that Indian fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi was not abducted by force. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-vaccine-production-cannot-be-ramped-up-overnight-explains-govt-and-all-the-latest-news-101622256473286.html
29-05-2021||India||New saline gargle RT-PCR Covid test launched: Self-test, result in 3 hours | All you need to know||The Council of Scientific and Industrial Research has come up with a do-it-yourself version of the RT-PCR test in which the results can be obtained in three hours. There is no swab involved in the process and it has already been approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research. Union health minister Dr harsh Vardhan said this is a remarkable innovation, which will increase the ease and the speed of Covid-19 testing in the country. "This swab-free, non-invasive testing mechanism could prove to be a game-changer," he said.#IndiaFightsCorona 📍Saline Gargle RT-PCR Method➡️Innovative Patient-Friendly Saline Gargle RT-PCR Testing Method, developed by NEERI Nagpur☑️Saline Gargle, No Swab, Simple, Fast, Economical☑️Get Result within 3 Hours, Suitable for Rural and Tribal Areas1/3 pic.twitter.com/IxwpYTJtoIAlso Read: India approves home test for Covid-19, to cost ₹250 per kitHere is all you need to know about this new test:1. The test has been developed by the scientists of Nagpur's National Environment Engineering Research Institute.2. Since one can do the test without needing any lab staff, it will be helpful in rural and tribal areas. The Nagpur Municipal Corporation has given a go-ahead to this test.3. The test kit comes with a tube containing saline. One has to put that liquid in the mouth and gargle for 15 seconds. Then one has to spit the liquid in the tube and send it for testing.4. When the sample comes to the lab, it is mixed with a buffer, developed by NEERI scientists, and kept for 30 minutes at room temperature. Then the liquid is heated up at 98 degree for six minutes to extract RNA for the RT-PCR test, senior scientist Dr Krishna Khairnar said.5. The result can be given in three hours.6. This testing technique will be shared with other testing labs in the country, Dr Khairnar said, now that it has got ICMR approval.RT-PCR testing is considered to be the gold standard of Covid testing but during the peak of the second wave in April, people had to wait longer than usual for RT-PCR results as labs were overburdened. The Centre at that time asked states and Union territories to focus on rapid antigen tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-saline-gargle-rt-pcr-covid-test-launched-self-test-result-in-3-hours-101622258277811.html
29-05-2021||India||Jaishankar, Blinken discuss Covid-19 relief, Quad, Indo-Pacific cooperation||US Secretary of State Antony Blinken met External Affairs Minister (EAM) S Jaishankar in Washington and discussed a broad range of issues, including Covid-19 relief, efforts to strengthen Indo-Pacific cooperation through the Quad, said US State Department spokesperson Ned Price on Friday (local time).Quad is a security alliance between India, the US, Japan and Australia. Jaishankar met US Secretary of State, as part of his five-day US visit, the first official trip since President Joe Biden took office in January."Productive discussion today with @DrSJaishankar on regional security and economic priorities to include US Covid-19 relief efforts, India-China border situation, and our support for Afghanistan. As friends, we will work together to address these areas of shared concern," Blinken tweeted.Productive discussion today with @DrSJaishankar on regional security and economic priorities to include U.S. COVID-19 relief efforts, India-China border situation, and our support for Afghanistan. As friends, we will work together to address these areas of shared concern. pic.twitter.com/BtoGJTUGEr"Secretary of State Antony J Blinken welcomed Indian External Affairs Minister Dr S Jaishankar to the Department of State, where he reaffirmed the Administration's commitment to deepening the US-India Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership," Ned Price said in a statement."Secretary Blinken and Jaishankar discussed a broad range of issues, including Covid-19 relief, efforts to strengthen Indo-Pacific cooperation through the Quad, and a shared commitment to combating the climate crisis and enhancing multilateral cooperation, including at the UN Security Council," the statement said.Earlier, Blinken told reporters the United States and India are "united" in confronting Covid-19.Both the leaders also discussed regional developments, the coup in Burma, and continuing support for Afghanistan."Secretary Blinken and Minister Jaishankar also discussed regional developments, the coup in Burma, and continuing support for Afghanistan. Secretary Blinken and Minister Jaishankar pledged to continue their cooperation on shared economic and regional security priorities," the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-blinken-discuss-covid-19-relief-quad-indo-pacific-cooperation-101622254611356.html
29-05-2021||India||Will never forget India was there for US in Covid-19 crisis: Anthony Blinken||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Friday held wide-ranging talks with his US counterpart Antony Blinken and thanked the Biden administration for its "strong support and solidarity" with India at a moment of "great difficulty" for the country in combating the deadly Covid-19 pandemic.Jaishankar, who is on an official trip to the US, is the first Indian Cabinet minister to visit the country since Joe Biden became US President on January 20.Welcoming Jaishankar to the State Department, Blinken said in the early days of Covid-19, India was there for the US, something which the country "will never forget"."Now we want to make sure that we are there for and with India," he said.Addressing reporters at the State Department in a joint media interaction before the two leaders headed for the meeting, Jaishankar said, "We've a lot of issues to discuss. I think our relations have grown stronger over the years and I'm very confident that it'll continue to do so."“I also want to take the opportunity to express to the Secretary, through him to the administration, (and) to the United States for the strong support and solidarity and at the moment of great difficulty (for us),” he said.Blinken said the US and India are working together on many important challenges of "our time"."We are united in confronting Covid-19 together...We are united in dealing with the challenge posed by climate change and we are partnered together directly through the QUAD and other institutions in the United Nations in dealing with many of the challenges that we face in the region,” he said.The Quad is a grouping of the US, India, Japan and Australia that aims at strengthening a rules-based order in the strategically-important Indo-Pacific amidst China's aggressive actions in the region."The partnership between the US and India is vital, strong, and I think it is increasingly productive," Blinken added.Jaishankar is also the only third foreign minister to have visited the Foggy Bottom headquarters of the State Department to meet his US counterpart Blinken. The other two were Jordan's Ayman Safadi and Columbia's Foreign Minister-Designate Marta Lucia Ramirez, who met Blinken earlier in the day.The Indian delegation included Ambassador of India to the US, Taranjit Singh Sandhu; MEA Joint Secretary Shilpak Ambule; Deputy Chief of Mission Sudhakar Dalela; and First Secretary Chitrangna Singh.The American delegation included Special Presidential Envoy for Climate, John Kerry. The other members were Acting Assistant Secretary of State for the Bureau of South and Central Asian Affairs, Dean Thompson; Coordinator for Global Covid Response and Health Security, Gayle Smith; Senior Director for South Asia at the National Security Council, Sumona Guha; and Deputy Chief of Staff for Policy, Tom Sullivan.Earlier in the day, Jaishankar met US Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin during which they discussed further developing strategic and defence partnership between the two countries and exchanged views on "contemporary security challenges"."A warm meeting with US @SecDef Lloyd Austin. A comprehensive conversation about further developing our strategic and defence partnership," he tweeted after the meeting, sharing a photograph of them together.Jaishankar further said they exchanged views on "contemporary security challenges".The two leaders are expected to have discussed the situation in the strategic Indo-Pacific region where China has been increasingly flexing its military muscles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-never-forget-india-was-there-for-us-in-covid-19-crisis-anthony-blinken-101622254168862.html
29-05-2021||India||Vaccine production can't be ramped up overnight, Centre explains why||The Union health ministry on Friday said vaccine production takes time and even if the production is being ramped up, it will not be translated to an increase in the immediate supply as this is not an overnight process. A vaccine is a biological product of medical importance and it takes time for harvesting and quality testing, the Centre said. The increase in manufacturing too needs to be a guided process as the end product should be safe, the ministry said defending its vaccination strategy.The statement comes as Congress leader Rahul Gandhi questioned the pace of vaccination and said there is no strategy for vaccination. At the current rate, it will take another three years to vaccinate the entire population and India will witness several waves of the pandemic by that time. Union minister of information and broadcasting Prakash Javadekar countered this criticism and said the health ministry has its roadmap prepared to vaccinate the entire population of the country by December 2021 as the production capacity of the present vaccines will be ramped up and more vaccines will be given clearance in the coming days.Covid-19 vaccines are in high demand globally and manufacturers across countries have limited manufacturing capacity, the ministry said, adding that despite the constraints of availability, India has covered 200 million persons in only 130 days which is the third-largest coverage in the world.4 crore Covaxin shots unaccounted?Reacting to reports that claimed that about four crore Covaxin doses are unaccounted for, the health ministry said those reports are not correct. "The claims of Bharat Biotech having 6 Crore doses is an error of comprehension among some quarters reporting the said matter," it said.Giving details of Bharat Biotech's vaccine supply, the ministry said the Hyderabad-based pharma company has supplied 2,76,66,860 vaccine doses to the Centre till May 28. In April, its production was 1 crore doses per month, which will reach 7-7 crore vaccine doses per month in July-August. By September, the production will reach nearly 10 crore doses.Quoting from affidavits filed by the Centre and Bharat Biotech's earlier statements, several reports claimed that there is a gap between what Bharat Biotech claims to be producing and the supply of the vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccine-production-can-t-be-ramped-up-overnight-centre-explains-amid-congress-attack-101622251929271.html
29-05-2021||India||Woman attempts self immolation over ‘inaction’ in rape case||Upset with alleged police inaction over the complaint of her rape by a law professor and three others, a woman lawyer on Friday attempted self-immolation in front of a police station but was stopped before she lit the matchstick. “She doused herself with some inflammable liquid but her efforts were foiled by two policemen,” Mathura City Superintendent of Police Martand Prakash Singh said. Denying police inaction, Singh said a detailed probe is on into the matter and two more police teams have been formed to nab the accused. On the woman’s complaint, an FIR was lodged earlier at the Highway police station in Mathura on May 7 against a law professor of a local college and his three accomplices for allegedly sexually assaulting her a day earlier, police said. But, alleging that she was neither sent for any medical examination nor any action was taken against the alleged culprits, she submitted an application to the SSP on May 13, and threatened to burn herself to death in front of the police station, they said. Denying police inaction in the case, officials said her statement under section 161 of the CrPC was taken on May 7 and under section 164 of the CrPc while her medical examination too conducted on May 15 as her Covid-19 test report was received late, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-attempts-self-immolation-over-inaction-in-rape-case-101622251529400.html
29-05-2021||India||'Important first step': India backs WHO study on Covid-19 origins||Union External Affairs Ministry on Friday called the WHO-convened global study on the origins of Covid-19 'an important step' and said the follow up of the WHO report and further studies deserve understanding and cooperation of all."WHO convened global study on origin of Covid-19 is an important first step. It stressed the need for next phase studies and also for further data and studies to reach robust conclusions," the MEA said.The follow up of WHO report and further studies deserve understanding and cooperation of all," it added.On May 28, the International Council of Jurists (ICJ) urged the Director-General of the WHO to release all scientific and medical information regarding Covid-19 in the light of reports that coronavirus had originated from a laboratory in Wuhan and not from the 'wet market' in Wuhan, hitherto believed by all countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/important-first-step-india-backs-who-study-on-covid-19-origins-101622250915277.html
29-05-2021||India||Navy amps up relief efforts at cyclone affected areas in Odisha||Indian Navy relief teams deployed at Odisha's Balasore scaled up their efforts on Friday in coordination with the state authorities to provide assistance and render help to the affected population in the interior and adjacent fishing villages of the district.The community kitchen provided over 1,500 cooked meals in fishing villages of Gokulur, Taliboral, Sirsapoda, Haripur, Bathrismania, Bodhigadiya, Nadchowk, Baulabani, Badadio, Balramgadi, and Dassipur. Packed meals were distributed with the help of the local Sarpanch on two-wheelers in absence of proper access roads.Nearly 400 packets of food provision and 300 clothing packets were also distributed at Kassafal gram panchayat and Talasari village with assistance from local ex-servicemen.Helicopters from the four naval ships anchored off Bhadrak's Dhamra port were also mobilised to supply 1,500 food provision packets to the Indian Navy's relief team deployed at ITR Balasore for distribution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/navy-amps-up-relief-efforts-at-cyclone-affected-areas-in-odisha-101622250876392.html
29-05-2021||India||Air India flight returns after crew spots bat in cabin||A Delhi to Newark Air India flight was forced to return after a bat was spotted in the plane’s business class area 30 minutes after departure early on Thursday.The Air India flight left Delhi’s IGI Airport at 2.20 am as scheduled, people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity. Around 30 minutes later, the cabin crew spotted the bat and the captain reported the incident to Air Traffic Control (ATC), the people said.“AI-105 DEL-EWR returned back to base (Delhi) after departure due to this local standby emergency was declared. On arrival, it was learnt that a bat was seen inside the cabin by crew members. Wildlife staff were called to catch and remove the bat from cabin. The aircraft landed safely at around 3:55 am. Later flight was declared Aircraft on Grounded (AoG),” news agency ANI quoted Air India officials as saying.The passengers were shifted to another plane and Air India flight AI-105 landed in Newark at 11:35 am local time.Once everyone was out of the aircraft, the Boeing B777-300ER aircraft was fumigated and the bat died, following which its carcass was recovered from the eighth row of the business class, they said.“Air India B777-300ER aircraft VT-ALM operating Flight AI - 105 (Delhi- Newark) was involved in air-turn-back due to bat reported in the cabin by cabin crew after departure. Fuel was jettisoned and the aircraft landed safely at Delhi,” a senior DGCA official told ANI.The incident has been reported to the airline’s flight safety department for a detailed investigation, people familiar with the matter said, adding that the airline has asked its engineering team to submit a report. In its preliminary report, the airline’s engineering team has blamed third parties for the incident. “The probable reason/cause may be loading vehicles like those for catering because all the time rats/bats come from their vehicle only,” an Air India official told ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-flight-returns-after-crew-spots-bat-in-cabin-101622248211828.html
29-05-2021||India||Covid-19 tracker: Tally stands at more than 27.7 million after over 170k cases on Friday||||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-tracker-more-than-170-000-new-cases-take-tally-to-over-27-7-million-101622247202570.html
29-05-2021||India||HC gives Vadra 3 weeks to reply to I-T notices||The Delhi high court on Friday granted three more weeks to businessman Robert Vadra to respond to the notices issued to him by the Income Tax (I-T) Department under the black money law.The I-T Department, meanwhile, can continue with the assessment proceedings but no final order shall be passed by it, the court noted.A bench of Justices Rajiv Shakdher and Talwant Singh also issued notice to the I-T Department, seeking its reply within four weeks on Vadra’s petition challenging notices issued to him on December 4, 2018 and December 18, 2019 under Section 10 (1) of the Black Money Act, 2015. The court listed the next hearing for August 10. In his plea, Vadra alleged that the conduct of the authorities is reflective of their mala fide attempt to pursue a political vendetta against him, his wife Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and his in-laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-gives-vadra-3-weeks-to-reply-to-i-t-notices-101622241380754.html
29-05-2021||India||AG’s help sought on plea to cancel Class 12 exams||The Supreme Court on Friday sought the assistance of the Attorney General to decide a plea to scrap Class 12 board examinations, and told the petitioner Mamta Sharma to be optimistic as the Centre, which is expected to decide on this issue by Tuesday, could pass a resolution in her favour.The bench posted the matter for Monday and directed a copy of the petition to be given to the central government, Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE), and Council for Indian School Certificate Examination (CISCE). It also directed the petition to be supplied to office of the Attorney General for India.The bench asked the petitioner why an advance copy was not served to the Centre or CBSE. On Friday, as the bench took up the matter for the first time, it found only CISCE being represented in court by senior advocate JK Das.Initially, one of the justices was of the view that the matter could be heard on Tuesday, coinciding with the Centre’s decision on holding the Class 12 examinations in the wake of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. But the bench decided to keep the matter on Monday.The petitioner sought a notice to be issued on her petition as several high courts were also being approached on the same issue. The bench told Sharma, “Be optimistic. May be there is a resolution in your favour.”Sharma appealed to cancel the Class 12 board examinations, saying students should not be made to suffer amidst an unprecedented public health crisis arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic.On April 14, CBSE issued notification cancelling Class 10 examinations, and postponing public examination for Class 12. Similar notifications were issued by CISCE on April 16 and 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ags-help-sought-on-plea-to-cancel-class-12-exams-101622237609523.html
29-05-2021||India||‘India is infamous’: Nath stokes new row with remark||Madhya Pradesh Congress Committee president Kamal Nath stoked another controversy on Friday after he said that India is not a great but “infamous country” while criticising the central government over its handling of the Covid-19 pandemic.“Mera Bharat mahan nahi hai, badnam hai (My country is not great but infamous). The whole world is looking at the worst condition of Covid-19 in India. Indians, who are working in the US are facing discrimination. A person told me that the people in New York are afraid of sitting in taxis driven by Indians,” the former chief minister added.Nath’s remarks evoked a sharp reaction from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) with chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan urging All India Congress Committee chief Sonia Gandhi to sack the Congress leader from the party.“Kamal Nath has lost his mental balance and he has no right to call himself a citizen of India. AICC president Sonia Gandhi should sack him from the party,” the chief minister said.An FIR was recently registered against Nath for allegedly maligning the image of India internationally by referring to the B.1.617 variant of coronavirus as the “Indian variant” and claiming that it was responsible for the second wave of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-is-infamous-nath-stokes-new-row-with-remark-101622236031934.html
29-05-2021||India||Need God’s intervention, says Meghalaya health minister on surge in Covid cases||Meghalaya will hold an all faith special prayer on May 30 to plead with God for his divine protection against the ongoing Covid-19 scourge, health minister Alexander Laloo Hek said on Friday. Hek, a Bharatiya Janata Party legislator, added that he had come up with the idea and received approval from chief minister Conrad K Sangma who wanted the prayer to be organised at the earliest.“We need God’s intervention and His blessings. Without Him, we are absolutely nobody. That is why we as one big family should on this day especially take out time and hold this special prayer besides our daily ones,” the minister said.Meghalaya, which had 49 active Covid-19 cases and a cumulative of 14,000 confirmed cases on 1 April, has 8,025 active cases and a cumulative total of 33,835 confirmed cases. The state, which is estimated to have a population of 33 lakh, has registered 544 deaths including the 20 who, news agency Press Trust of India said, died on Friday.MDA Govt. has called all our fellow citizens to join hands in special Prayer on this Sunday the 30th May,2021 at 12 noon sharp of all faiths & Individuals.🙏 pic.twitter.com/WXox160tZJOnly divine protection can deliver people “who are suffering in various forms from this pestilence at this dark moment not only in the state but all around the world,” the minister said.Alexander Laloo Hek said the special prayer will be held at noon on Sunday and asked leaders of all faiths to urge people to pray and intercede with God in their respective homes.“We request everybody in their respective houses to assemble together maintaining protocols at 12 noon on May 30 and pray to the Almighty for His protection.” the minister, known to be a staunch Catholic, said.East Khasi hills, the district where state capital Shillong is located and has reported the maximum cases and deaths, has been under a total lockdown for nearly four weeks. The state initially imposed restrictions in April to curb the number of cases but later decided to go for a complete lockdown in the district when the situation didn’t improve.On Friday, PTI said deputy chief minister Prestone Tynsong announced that the lockdown in East Khasi Hills district will continue till June 7.According to covidtracking.in the state witnessed a growth of 177 per cent in coronavirus cases in just 14 days, the highest rate in the country so far. According to the website’s data, Meghalaya was one of the four states and union territory where covid cases increased by more than 50% over the past two weeks. Tripura (169%), Arunachal Pradesh (60%) and Lakshadweep (112%) were the other three.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-god-s-intervention-says-meghalaya-health-minister-on-surge-in-covid-cases-101622233567312.html
29-05-2021||India||Covid-19: Delhi’s gradual unlock to start from Monday||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday announced that construction sector and factories can resume operations from Monday, when a phased unlocking of the Capital will begin after a devastating surge in Covid-19 forced the city into shutting down all but essential services on April 19.The announcement came as the city recorded 1,141 new cases from 71,853 tests – which translated to a test positivity rate of under 2% for the third consecutive day. This number has been falling since first reducing to under 5% on May 21. The World Health Organization (WHO) considers a positivity rate of under 5% for two weeks to consider an outbreak as having been brought under control.Kejriwal said that in one month, Delhi has controlled the latest Covid-19 wave to a large extent and that there is no shortage of hospitals, Intensive Care Unit beds and medical oxygen at present. “So, we have to start the un-lockdown process. We should ensure that we do not land in a position in which people survive Covid-19 but die of poverty,” the chief minister said.He said the current lockdown protocol will apply till 5 am Monday. “And then the un-lockdown process will start. The decision was taken today [Friday] at the meeting of the [Lieutenant governor Anil Baijal-led] Delhi Disaster Management Authority.”Kejriwal, who is the DDMA vice-chairperson, said their priority will be the weakest economic sections in the un-lockdown process. “..we will start with labourers, especially migrant labourers. Most of them are engaged either in the construction sector or in factories. So, we will open these two sectors from this Monday.”Kejriwal said that to make sure cases do not surge again, the relaxations have to happen in a phased way.Experts stressed on the need to unlock the city carefully, with particular planning of how activities prone to crowding and close contact can be opened up. These include the opening up of marketplaces and malls, restaurants, gymnasiums, the Metro rail services and any activity that could drive up the number of people relying on public transport.“The government should be very meticulous about the phased relaxations. Hundred percent mask compliance should be mandatory not just on paper but enforced efficiently. Open spaces are less risky. In the coming weeks the government may take a call on opening market areas. In that case, they should go for staggered timings or alternate day formula to ensure that crowd is under control,” said Dr Jacob John, former head of the clinical virology department at Christian Medical College in Vellore.“The government should keenly observe the Covid-19 trends and take a call on relaxations concerning closed spaces such as pubs, gyms, cinema halls, etc, only when things are safe enough. But effective implementation of 100% mask compliance is a must. So, it is not just about planning things it is more about their efficient implementation,” he added.Kejriwal said that in subsequent weeks, more relaxations will be made after taking into account case numbers, expert inputs and public feedback. He said that if cases start increasing, all economic activities will have to be stopped again. “So, I urge people to adhere to all regulations and strictly follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. We are not in favour of a lockdown. We are aware of its implications.”At present, only people, institutes, and enterprises engaged in the delivery of essential goods and services are allowed to function – these include grocery stores, offices of core government agencies, pharmacies and banks, among some others.The construction sector and factory workers’ unions welcomed Friday’s announcement.“The un-lockdown initiative will bring big relief to tens of thousands of workers engaged in Delhi’s factories. But a large number of people have already left, and they are not likely to come back any time soon. The disease has affected them and their families back in villages. Most of them have run out of money too. They are unlikely to return to Delhi without a guaranteed job,” said Rajesh Kumar, general secretary, Delhi, Indian Federation of Trade Unions.Thaneshwar Adigaur, the convener of Nirmal Majdoor Adhikar Abhiyan, a joint forum of 40 construction sector labour unions in Delhi, said there is fear of another potential wave of Covid-19. “Children of migrant labourers no longer have to attend physical classes in schools any time soon. So, those who have left for villages are likely to be there for a few more months. However, for the construction workers who stayed back and those who plan to return, the announced relaxation will be a big relief.”HT reported on May 22 that at least 800,000 migrant labourers are estimated to have left Delhi for their home states in buses from the three interstate bus terminals in the first four weeks of the lockdown.Neeraj Sehgal, a factory owner and general secretary of an industrial area welfare body in Delhi’s Mayapuri, said factory owners too are facing problems and, hence, are unlikely to expand their workforce beyond a point. “In the next three months, production capacity is likely to remain under 50% because of the financial losses caused by the pandemic. It would be great if the government considers relaxations for the industry sector too in terms of rent relaxation, tax relief and waiver on at least fixed charges on power and water.”The coming weeks will be crucial as it buys the city some time to ramp up the vaccination drive, experts said.“We have to scale up vaccination at this stage. Supply shortage cannot be an excuse. Governments will together have to work towards resolving that,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the community medicines department in Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital.Kishore said as cases and positivity rate declines significantly, tests are likely to decline. “But the government should have its testing infrastructure in place. Any inconvenience in this regard naturally leads to hesitance and the test-trace-isolate model eventually collapses,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhis-gradual-unlock-to-start-from-monday-101622229206228.html
29-05-2021||India||GST Council forms GoM for tax slabs of Covid essentials||In a series of decisions on Friday, the Goods and Service Tax (GST) Council formed a group of ministers (GoM) to decide on waiving off taxes on Covid-19 essentials such as vaccines, expanded the list of relief items imported without duties to also include drugs for mucormycosis, eased compliance burdens for small businesses, and decided to borrow ₹1.58 lakh crore to compensate states for their revenue shortfall in the 2021-22 financial year.After a nine-hour long meeting of the federal body, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said that a “protracted discussion” on the issue of tax exemption on individual items for Covid-19 led to the decision that a GoM should be set up, which will submit its report “within 10 days ... on or before 8th June, so that if there are any further reductions which need to be done, will be done”.She said the GoM will be constituted on Saturday.Several states have been demanding GST waivers for Covid essentials. While vaccines and cotton masks attract 5% GST, most of the other items, such as testing kits, drugs, medical oxygen, oxygen concentrators and ventilators, attract 12% GST. Alcohol-based sanitiser, hand wash, disinfectants and thermometers are under the 18% tax slab.The GST Council is chaired by Sitharaman and finance ministers of states are its members.Sitharaman said the council on Friday decided to exempt integrated GST (IGST) on import of Amphotericin-B, a medicine to treat mucormycosis, a fungal infection that has emerged as a Covid-19 complication.She said the scope of the IGST waiver on Covid-19 relief materials such as medical oxygen, oxygen concentrators, oxygen storage equipment, diagnostic kits and vaccines have also been extended to imports “on payment basis” for donating to the government or recognised relief agencies. These exemptions will be valid up to August 31.So far, IGST exemption was applicable only if these items were imported “free of cost” for free distribution. All these goods are already exempted from basic customs duty.“I think, one of the biggest decisions of today is on the reduction of compliance burden of small taxpayers and also some medium-size taxpayers. Late fee amnesty related matters have also been decided upon... for reducing the late fee payable in these cases,” she said adding that about 89% taxpayers will benefit.While late fees have been rationalised for the future to provide long-term relief to small taxpayers, return filing has also been simplified, she said.She said the issue of compensation cess was also discussed in the meeting and the same mechanism of FY-21 was adopted for 2021-22. “So the rough estimate is that the Centre will have to borrow about ₹1.58 lakh crore and pass it on to states on a back-to-back arrangement like we did last year,” she said. HT wrote about it on May 27.The GST law assures states get a 14% increase in their annual revenue for five years from July 1, 2017, and also guarantee them that their revenue shortfall, if any, would be made good through the compensation cess levied on luxury goods and sin products such as liquor, cigarettes, aerated water, automobiles, coal and tobacco products.In the previous financial year, due to the first wave, the GST revenue fell short by about ₹2.35 lakh crore. The Centre last year gave two borrowing options facilitated by a special window of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to states. First was to borrow the GST shortfall of ₹1.10 lakh crore and repay both principal and interest from the compensation cess. In the second option, only the principal amount would be paid from the compensation cess. After some resistance by 10 Opposition-ruled states, the first option was eventually accepted.On extension of compensation cess beyond June 2022, Sitharaman said the matter will be discussed at a special section of the council.MS Mani, senior director at consultancy firm Deloitte India said: “While the amnesty scheme would significantly benefit small businesses, there is a need to extend the same to other businesses who may not have fulfilled their obligations due to the pandemic.”“Exemption of any product is a complex exercise involving the entire value chain and it is essential that the interests of all stakeholders are taken into consideration.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gst-council-forms-gom-for-tax-slabs-of-covid-essentials-101622229204402.html
29-05-2021||India||Hyderabad Police file charge sheet in ₹30,000-cr money lending racket||Hyderabad The Hyderabad Cybercrime police on Friday filed a charge sheet in connection with ₹30,000-crore online money lending racket, allegedly based out of China. Police also said that so far 28 persons have been arrested in the case, including the prime accused Zhu Wei, alias Lambo, and three other Chinese nationals. The kingpin of the racket, Zixia Zhang alias Jennifer, was still absconding, the charge sheet said. According to the Cybercrime police, the racket was busted in December 2020 and subsequently, the accused were arrested over a period of four months. In the charge sheet, the police said the modus operandi of the gang, operated from Shanghai in China, was to offer instant loans through mobile applications to individuals. Several instant loan applications including Loan Gram, Cash Train, Cash Bus, AAA Cash, Super Cash, Mint Cash, Happy Cash, Loan Card, Repay One, Money Box and Monkey Box were hosted on Google PlayStore, police said. Explaining the modus operandi, police said once customers installed the app, the company would get access to all contacts and other data from the mobile phone. They would then transfer loan amount to borrowers after deducting 25% to 30%, police said. The racket also set up four call centres in India and hired executives to collect exorbitant repayments from the borrowers after adding interest, processing charges, GST, and default charges, police said, adding that the racket would charge 1% penalty after expiry of the loan period. “These executives resorted to systematic abusing, harassing, and threatening defaulters through call centres run by them. They even blackmail the borrowers by sending fake legal notices to their relatives and family members,” the police said. The racket lured hundreds of borrowers in the Telugu states of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, apart from Bengaluru, Chennai and Mumbai, by offering lakhs in loans on hefty interests. “In Telangana, seven people died by suicide after they were unable to bear the harassment of these online lending agencies,” police said. The Cybercrime police told the court that the total transactions indulged in by the accused ran into around ₹30,000 crore. “They made a profit of around ₹11,000 crore, which they diverted to benami accounts,” the Cybercrime police said in the charge sheet. The accused have been booked under sections 420 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), Section 66 of the IT Act-2008, and sections 3, 10 and 13(1) of the Telangana Money Lenders Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hyderabad-police-file-charge-sheet-in-30-000-cr-money-lending-racket-101622229084293.html
29-05-2021||India||Kerala HC quashes 80:20 distribution of minority scholarships||Thiruvananthapuram: The Kerala high court on Friday quashed the state government orders providing merit-cum-means scholarships at 80% to the Muslim community and 20% to Latin Catholic and Converted Christian students. A division bench of Chief Justice Manikumar and Justice Shaji P Chaly directed the Kerala government to formulate a fresh plan that will benefit students of both communities equally. The court said the directorate of minority welfare board’s order was not legally sustainable. The court’s order came on a petition filed by one Justin P of Palakkad in which he said the fixation ratio was not based on actual population of these two communities and was highly biased and the state government was supporting one particular community. But the government argued that unemployment rate among Muslim community was 52%, Christians 31.9% and backward Hindus 40%. Besides, the government also pointed to the Sachar Committee report, which clearly emphasised the backwardness of Muslims in education field and need to improve their educational conditions. However, the court said the decision of the government was unconstitutional and unsupported by law. As part of the scheme, the Kerala government provides 5,000 scholarships to degree and post-graduate students, especially women students, every year. The scheme was later extended to students from Latin Catholic and converted Christians. In 2015, an order was formulated to give 80% scholarship to Muslims and 20% to Christians. The move was challenged in the court. Several church leaders have been complaining about the same for quite some time, prompting chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan to keep the minority welfare portfolio with him this time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-hc-quashes-80-20-distribution-of-minority-scholarships-101622229025500.html
29-05-2021||India||Kerala HC refuses to stay Lakshadweep regulations||Thiruvananthapuram: The Kerala High Court on Friday refused to stay the implementation of the draft Lakshadweep Development Authority Regulation (LDAR) 2021and sought the response of the Centre and Lakshadweep administration in two weeks on a public interest litigation (PIL) against it. The PIL, filed by Congress leader K P Noushad Ali, said the new draft regulation ensures sweeping, arbitrary and unchecked powers to the island administration and would destroy the unique culture and tradition of the island. The rules would also affect the possession and retention of property by the island residents, it added. While the counsel for the petitioner insisted for an interim stay on regulations, a division bench of Justices K Vinod Chandran and M R Anitha observed that it was a policy matter and let all persons involved share their views with the court. The court also sent notices to the Union government and island administration and posted the hearing after two weeks. Lakshadweep administrator Praful Khoda Patel’s controversial reforms have attracted widespread resentment among the local populace with many believing the changes are aimed at “destroying the unique culture and tradition” of the islands. About a dozen MPs, including Mohammed Faizal, who represents the island, sent letters to the President seeking Patel’s immediate recall.The Congress, CPI(M) and Muslim League joined hands to oppose the decisions, saying Patel was trying to “saffronise the island” where almost 95% population is Muslim.Collector of the Union territory Askar Ali, however, defended the rules and alleged that people with vested interests were spreading misinformation over it to project the administration in poor light. He added that the administration was trying to develop the island as a major tour hub like Maldives and that local people were in favour of the effort. Ali said Maldives and Lakshadweep have the same features and climate but the former was way ahead in tourism. Fresh initiatives would help open new avenues for the latter to ensure development and prosperity, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-hc-refuses-to-stay-lakshadweep-regulations-101622229024170.html
29-05-2021||India||Congress launches scathing attack on K’taka govt’s vaccine drive||Bengaluru The Karnataka Congress on Friday launched a scathing attack against the BS Yediyurappa government over the vaccination drive in the state.“@BJP4Karnataka govt has increased the service charge from ₹100 to ₹200 to get vaccinated. Whose interests are the @BJP4Karnataka leaders trying to protect? People of Karnataka? Or The private hospitals?,” Siddaramaiah, former chief minister and leader of the opposition said in a post on Twitter.The Congress has attacked the BJP-led government of giving rise to a situation in which private hospitals had enough stock for paid vaccinations but government and other public facilities were running dry.“It is unfortunate that health minister @mla_sudhakar is promoting a private hospital instead of ensuring the availability of vaccines at govt hospitals. Is he a minister? Or a brand ambassador for private hospital?,” Siddaramaiah added.The former chief minister also targeted Bengaluru South MP, Tejasvi Surya who continues to partner with private hospitals to administer paid-vaccinations.“Karnataka’s vaccination drive is so slow that we haven’t even been able to vaccinate all health and frontline workers yet. What an absolute shame. Karnataka deserves better.#LetCongressVaccinate,” DK Shivakumar, the president of the Congress in Karnataka tweeted.Karnataka has so far administered a total of 13,016,720 doses of vaccine, according to the daily health bulletin of the state health department. Of this, 2,691,291 are second doses, according to government data.The total vaccination coverage is under 5% of the estimated 60.5 million population in the state.The poor vaccination coverage has left a significant number of people vulnerable to Covid-19. The health department on Friday said that the state recorded 22,823 new Covid-19 cases and 52,253 recoveries that brings down the total number of active cases to 372,373. The positivity rate dropped to 16.42%.Bengaluru recorded 5,736 new infections that brought down its active caseload to 180697. However, the death toll continued to rise with at least 401 more losing their lives in a single day, including 192 in Bengaluru.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-launches-scathing-attack-on-k-taka-govt-s-vaccine-drive-101622228904251.html
29-05-2021||India||State govt’s financial package an ‘eyewash’: Congress||Bengaluru The Karnataka Congress on Friday termed the ₹1,250-crore relief package announced by the BS Yediyurappa-led government an “eyewash” while alleging the amount was not sufficient to address the growing distress in the state due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Attacking the state government, Congress leaders Krishna Byre Gowda and Priyank Kharge said the most effective way to revive the economy amid the pandemic was to give money directly to the poor. “If one rupee is spent, it rotates at least five times in our economy. For economic revival and to kickstart and stimulate it, giving money to the poor is 100% effective…,” Gowda said. “These (government) people do not have the heart to help the poor. They need to have common sense that to revive the economy, even if you cannot create new jobs but to protect existing ones, saving existing companies can be done by helping the poor,” he added. CM Yediyurappa on May 19 had announced a financial relief package for a section of the people who have been hit hard by the Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdowns that have affected their livelihood and income. “To provide relief to people who have lost income and livelihood due to the 2nd wave of Covid-19, ₹1,250 crore of economic support has been sanctioned to farmers, workers from the unorganised sector, auto and cab drivers, street vendors among others,” Yediyurappa said in a post on Twitter. Several sections of people including domestic help, auto and cab drivers among others were left out of the financial package and were unlikely to get any relief, HT reported. The state is under the lockdown till June 7. Last year, the state government had announced two packages, amounting to around ₹2,100 crore, but there were allegations that most of this did not reach the intended groups. Karnataka, like other states in the country, has seen thousands of livelihoods being affected due to the lockdown, with many people having to survive on help and relief supplied mostly by volunteer groups. “A package of ₹5,000 was announced for 775,000 auto and taxi drivers. But only 214,000 drivers got the benefit,” Gowda said, adding that several people were yet to receive the benefit of the financial package announced last year. He said only ₹58 crore was disbursed to horticulture farmers as against the allocation of ₹137 crore. “In last year’s package, from what they had announced, around ₹700 to ₹800 crore has still not been given,” Gowda added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/state-govt-s-financial-package-an-eyewash-congress-101622228784189.html
29-05-2021||India||Over 9% patients died outside hospital in Karnataka during 2nd Covid wave: Data||In the second wave of Covid-19, close to 9 out 100 (i.e.9.3%) patients died outside a hospital, shows the analysis of health bulletins released by the Karnataka state health department on so far. In comparison, during the Covid first wave, only 4 out of 100 (i.e. 3.8%) patients died outside a hospital, according to the data.As the second wave shows a declining trend in the state, Hindustan Times compiled a data on Covid-19 deaths from state health department bulletins and compared the deaths in the first and second wave of the pandemic. While the data of number of deaths during the first wave is between August 1 and September 30, 2020, a time when the state reported the highest number of cases, data on deaths during the second wave is between April 1 to May27.In the first wave of the virus, 6,551 people lost their lives to Covid-19 in the two months, while in the second wave 14,167 deaths were reported. While the number of deaths in the second wave is more than double compared to the first, experts say that the case fatality rate (number of deaths reported per 100 cases) is low. “If we look at the absolute number of deaths, they are definitely high in the second wave. But if you look at the number cases, the second wave had more,” said the senior bureaucrat, who didn’t want to be named.“The case fatality rate is the best way to understand this. Even though we reported more deaths, the case fatality rate in April 2021 was around 0.77% and in April 2020 the CFR was 4.09%. The average number of deaths has reduced in the second wave,” he added.Similarly, in the cases of hospitalisation, out of the 14,167 deaths, 1,322 were reported from outside a hospital, which is 9.3% of all deaths reported in the second wave. In comparison, in the first wave, out of the 6,551 deaths, only 251 (3.8%) died outside a hospital, as per analysis of data from the government bulletins.Giridhar Babu, head of epidemiology department at the Public Health Foundation of India and member of state Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) on Covid-19 said that change between the first and second wave shows that the medical facilities in the state were overwhelmed by surge in cases. “Several people were unable to find a bed in the second wave. The change in policy towards home isolation also meant that people started looking for hospitals late and they were unable to find them because of hospitals running out of space,” said Babu.Similarly, the second wave showed an increase in the number of deaths in the age group of 30-45. A comparison of the numbers shows that in the first wave around 11 out of 100 deaths belonged to the 30–45-year age group, in the second wave, 16 out of the 100 deaths were reported in this category.However, for the age category of under 30 years, there was no big change in the numbers. In the first wave, 2.2% of deaths belonged to those under 30, while in the second wave it marginally increased to 2.9%.The data also highlighted how many victims exhibited comorbidities. While 71.3% of Covid-19 cases in Karnataka showed some comorbidity such as diabetes or breathing problems, in the second wave, these number dropped to 61.7%. Does it mean more people without any comorbidities died? Babu says this may not be the case. “In India, people get commodities at least 10 years before other countries. This is one of the reasons why we have high number of deaths in the 30–45-year age category. The number of people without any reported comorbidities show that many people are unaware of the medical problems they have,” he said.He said that there are several lessons to be learnt from the first and second waves even as the state prepares to tackle the third wave which expected around November this year. “If we look at the Mumbai numbers, the number of deaths in 60 years + age category has come down because they have been vaccinated. So, we need to focus on vaccination before the third wave and an increase in the number of people dying outside the hospital shows that more investment is needed in creating beds,” he pointed out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-9-patients-died-outside-k-taka-hospitals-during-2nd-covid-wave-data-101622228604236.html
29-05-2021||India||‘Great disservice to your office’: India stings UNGA Prez for his Kashmir remark||India on Friday described as “unwarranted” and “regrettable” the remarks by UN General Assembly President Volkan Bozkir that Pakistan should raise the Kashmir issue more forcefully and that all parties should refrain from steps that affect the status of Jammu and Kashmir.Bozkir, a former Turkish diplomat who assumed office last September, made the comments at a Press interaction with Pakistan foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi in Islamabad on Thursday. Bozkir, the first Turkish national to preside over the General Assembly, was on an official visit to Pakistan during which he also met Prime Minister Imran Khan.“We express our strong opposition to the unwarranted references made with respect to the Indian union territory of Jammu and Kashmir by the President of the United Nations General Assembly (PGA) Volkan Bozkir during his recent visit to Pakistan,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said.Bozkir’s remarks that “Pakistan is ‘duty bound’ to raise the Kashmir issue at the UN more strongly are unacceptable”, and there is no basis for comparing the situation in Jammu and Kashmir to other global situations, Bagchi said.“When an incumbent President of the UN General Assembly makes misleading and prejudiced remarks, he does great disservice to the office he occupies. The PGA’s behaviour is truly regrettable and surely diminishes his standing on the global platform,” he added.At the press interaction in Islamabad, Bozkir said Qureshi had compared the Palestine and Kashmir issues. He also noted that Palestine has more “political wind” behind it, whereas the Kashmir issue doesn’t have the “same enlarged political wind behind it”.Noting that it is Pakistan’s duty to bring the Kashmir issue to the UN “more strongly”, he said a meeting could be held on the matter if a group of countries submit an application.Bozkir added, “As an impartial president of the General Assembly, I must also reiterate that the UN position on Jammu and Kashmir is governed by the UN Charter and applicable Security Council resolutions.“India and Pakistan’s Simla Agreement of 1972...states that the final status of Jammu and Kashmir is to be settled by peaceful means in accordance with the UN Charter and this is, I think, very important that we must all remember.”Bozkir further said, “I think both parties, all parties, must refrain from taking steps that could affect the status of Jammu and Kashmir. This is I think the very important part of how we look at the case.”In August 2019, India revoked the special status of Jammu and Kashmir and split the state into two union territories. Pakistan opposed the move, which Indian officials said was aimed at increasing development, curbing terrorism and bringing the region into the mainstream.India has rejected Pakistan’s criticism of these developments as interference in its internal matters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/great-disservice-to-your-office-india-stings-unga-prez-for-his-kashmir-remark-101622226879025.html
29-05-2021||India||SC asserts HCs’ power to protect from arrest||High courts are empowered to protect an accused from arrest for a certain period of time even if it rejects the anticipatory bail plea, the Supreme Court ruled on Friday, while underscoring that bail provisions must be liberally construed by the courts to take into account myriad situations.A three-judge bench, headed by chief justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana, cleared up the legal position, as it held in favour of a high court exercising such powers under the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) to “secure the ends of justice”.In the wake of two orders by the Allahabad high court, granting 90 days to two accused to surrender, the top court was called upon to remove the ambiguity in law as to whether a high court was authorised to protect an accused from arrest for some time even though it did not grant pre-arrest bail.The bench, which included justices Surya Kant and Aniruddha Bose, laid down that a high court could pass such protective orders under Section 482 of the CrPC, which recognised the HC’s inherent power to pass directions in the interest of justice.Inherent powers under section 482 of the CrPC include the power to quash first information reports (FIRs), investigation, or any criminal proceedings, and to pass any directive to prevent abuse of the process of any court and miscarriage of justice, depending upon the facts of a case. “This provision (section 482) reflects the reality that no law or rule can possibly account for the complexities of life, and the infinite range of circumstances that may arise in the future,” noted the bench.“Even when the court is not inclined to grant anticipatory bail to an accused, there may be circumstances where the high court is of the opinion that it is necessary to protect the person apprehending arrest for some time...,” it held.At the same time, the bench also flagged that the discretionary power could not be exercised by the high courts “in an untrammelled manner”.On the facts in the cases before it, the court noted that the accused in the first case was charged for causing the death of the petitioner’s daughter over dowry demands, whereas the accused in the second case was involved in brutally assaulting the brother and sons of the petitioner.The bench said the HC order restraining police from arresting them for 90 days did not withstand legal scrutiny since there were no special reasons cited why they were entitled to this relief even after their pre-arrest bail pleas were rejected. “During the said duration (of 90 days), they can roam freely without being apprehensive of coercive action. We are thus of the view that the high court committed a grave error in passing such protection to the accused. Such a direction by the HC exceeds its judicial discretion and amounts to judicial largesse, which the courts do not possess,” said the bench, cancelling the protective orders passed on February 8.The court gave liberty to the police to complete the investigations in accordance with the law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-asserts-hcs-power-to-protect-from-arrest-101622227464071.html
29-05-2021||India||Stand with India in Covid fight: Blinken at meet with Jaishankar||US secretary of state Antony Blinken on Friday assured his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar that Washington would stand with New Delhi in tackling Covid-19 just as India had stood by the US in the initial days of the pandemic last year.The assurance came as Jaishankar met Blinken in Washington to discuss cooperation in the global response to Covid-19, including access to vaccines and raw materials, and regional developments such as the situation in Afghanistan. Jaishankar is the first Indian cabinet minister to visit the US since the Biden administration assumed office in January.“We remember in the earlier days of Covid, India was there for the US, something we’ll never forget, and now we want to make sure that we’re there for and with India,” Blinken told reporters before beginning his meeting with Jaishankar at the state department.Jaishankar said India-US relations had grown stronger over the years and expressed his gratitude for the strong support and solidarity shown by the Biden administration “at a moment of great difficulty for us”.The US administration and private firms have delivered relief materials and equipment worth more than $500 million to India to help the country’s response to a devastating second wave of coronavirus pandemic in India.Access to the US surplus stockpiles of Covid-19 vaccines and opening up supply chains for raw materials and components needed to ramp up the production of vaccines have been a focus area of Jaishankar’s five-day visit to the US. The Biden administration has announced it will donate 80 million doses of vaccines to countries around the world by June and India is hoping to get a significant number of jabs both directly and through the WHO-backed COVAX facility.Blinken said the US and India are working together on many important challenges that are having a profound impact on the lives of the citizens of both countries. “We are united in confronting Covid-19 together, we are united in dealing with the challenge posed by climate change and we are partnered together directly and through the Quad and other institutions of the UN in dealing with many of the challenges we face in the region and around the world,” he said.Describing the partnership between the US and India as vital, he added, “It’s strong and I think it’s increasingly productive.”Jaishankar met Blinken after he returned from a hectic visit to the Middle East to help shore up the fragile ceasefire between Israel and Hamas following 11 days of hostilities. He also met defense secretary Lloyd Austin, US trade representative Katherine Tai, National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan and director of national intelligence Avril Haines in Washington.Jaishankar tweeted that he and Austin had a “comprehensive conversation about further developing our strategic and defence partnership” and exchanged views on contemporary security challenges. He also expressed appreciation for the US military’s role in responding to the Covid-19 situation.In a separate tweet after his meeting with Tai, Jaishankar said trade, technology and business cooperation are at the core of India’s strategic partnership with the US. “Enhancing them is vital to post-Covid economic recovery,” he added.Jaishankar welcomed Tai’s “positive stance” on intellectual property rights issues – a reference to the US support for India’s call for patent protections to be waived for Covid-19 vaccines – and her support for efficient and robust supply chains.The situation in the Indo-Pacific and Afghanistan figured in Thursday’s meeting between Jaishankar and Sullivan, who tweeted that people-to-people ties and values are the “foundation of the US-India partnership and will help us end the pandemic, lead on climate, and support a free and open Indo-Pacific”.At a meeting with House Foreign Affairs Committee chairman Gregory Meeks and ranking member Michael McCaul, Jaishankar discussed developments related to the Quad and cooperation on vaccines. He also held a meeting with House India Caucus co-chairs Brad Sherman and Steve Chabot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-holds-talks-with-us-nsa-defence-secretary-101622227081864.html
29-05-2021||India||Covid-19: Rahul slams PM Modi over inoculation drive, warns of more waves||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday cautioned the central government against more waves of the Covid pandemic if the country’s vaccine strategy is not fixed as he blamed Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the second wave and asked him to form a panel that should meet daily to take stock of the crisis.Gandhi concluded that Modi’s image is “dead” as a result of the mismanagement of the pandemic and that the ruling dispensation’s strategy to “spread lies” about Covid fatalities is not helping India’s war against the virus. “The second wave is because of the PM’s drama. The PM didn’t fulfil his responsibilities,” Gandhi said.In a virtual press meet, Gandhi asked the government to stop blaming the states and said, “If (Chhattisgarh CM) Bhupesh Baghel, (West Bengal CM) Mamata Banerjee and Modi are on the same page, the door will be shut for the coronavirus,” adding that the government “kept the door wide open” for the virus to circulate.“I told the PM if you don’t implement the vaccine strategy properly, you will give time and space for Covid to grow. In this way, Covid waves will continue to come. There will be a fourth, fifth or even sixth wave.”He labelled the modified vaccine strategy that opened jabs to all adults and allowed private hospitals to sell doses as “business” and said that the US has already vaccinated 50% of its population and Brazil is also ahead of India, the vaccine manufacturing hub of the world.“Masks, social distancing and lockdown are temporary solutions. Vaccination is the only permanent solution but its (the government’s) strategy so far has been completely wrong. The RSS-BJP doesn’t allow the PM to get any information. The PM should form a panel, hold daily meetings and talk regularly to experts to make (Covid management) strategy,” Gandhi said.The government has set up six group of bureaucrats, a national panel on vaccines and a core group to oversee various aspects of India’s fight against Covid. Information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar hit back at Gandhi, while announcing that the country will vaccinate the entire adult population by the end of the year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-slams-pm-modi-over-inoculation-drive-warns-of-more-waves-101622227404238.html
29-05-2021||India||‘Will vaccinate all by end of year’: Javadekar hits back at Congress||Union minister Prakash Javadekar said India will vaccinate most of its population by December, adding that the country’s vaccine drive will move up a gear from August.The minister was responding to Congress leader Rahul Gandhi who termed the country’s vaccine drive “nautanki” on Friday, and attributed the second wave of the Covid-19 to this.“The health ministry last week made it clear that within December the nation will produce 216 crore (2.16 billion) doses of Covid-19 vaccines which means that at least 108 crore (1.08 billion) people will be able to get their shots. So, Rahul Gandhi should understand that India will vaccinate all by December 2021” Javadekar said .Till Friday evening, India has vaccinated 44 million people fully and administered only one dose to 120 million people. It is currently vaccinating on average 2.2 million people a day.The health ministry’s projections of 2.16 billion doses being available is for the period between August and December and assumes significant capacity enhancements, and the approval of some vaccines that are still in clinical trials. The Ken reported that the actual number available would be around 1.09 billion doses and Reuters has said that the overall number could be an overstatement with Serum Institute of India, which makes Covishield, likely to miss the 750 million number mentioned by the health ministry by around 27% (or 200 million). Even assuming that India would vaccinate its entire 18-year plus population (940 million) by the end of the year, it will require the country to vaccinate a little in excess of 7.5 million people every day.The minister claimed that both supply and the pace of vaccinations would shortly increase“Covisheild, Covaxin, Zydus Cadila, Novavax, Genova and Sputnik, all these vaccines will soon be produced in India now… And with projected imports… India will have a total of 216 crore doses,” he said. To be sure, of these only Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik have been approved for emergency use.Attacking Gandhi, Javadekar said: “The whole nation is condemning the words of Rahul Gandhi today. He used the words, “PM’s Nautanki exactly the way they are prescribed in their tool kit.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-vaccinate-all-by-end-of-year-javadekar-hits-back-at-rahul-gandhi-101622227344131.html
29-05-2021||India||Google, Facebook and WhatsApp submit details of new compliance officers||Prominent social media companies such as Google, Facebook and WhatsApp have shared the details of their compliance officer, resident grievance officer and nodal contact person, as mandated under the new guidelines for intermediaries, a government official said on Friday.Twitter, however, is yet to share the details of their compliance officer. “Most of the major social media intermediaries have shared the details of their chief compliance officer, nodal contact person and grievance officer with Ministry of Electronics and IT (Meity), as required by the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021,” the official said.The development comes two days after all parts of the new rules, including the appointment of an officer who would be criminally liable in case of non-compliance, kicked in. The ministry had written to all social media intermediaries to share the contact details of the new officials.The official added that significant social media intermediaries which have 5 million users or more, such as Koo, Sharechat, Telegram, LinkedIn, Google, Facebook and WhatsApp have shared details with the government.A WhatsApp representative said details of its grievance officer can be found on its website in the FAQ section. A person linked to Facebook said the company has shared the required details with the ministry.Also read: Standoff on IT rules as Twitter flags concernsThe official mentioned above said that after a stern communication was sent to Twitter, the company shared details of “a lawyer working in a law firm in India as their Nodal Contact Person and Grievance Officer”.“The rules require that these designated officers of the significant social media companies must be the employees of the company and resident in India,” the official said. “Twitter has not yet sent the details of the Chief Compliance Officer.”Twitter on Thursday raised concerns regarding “intimidation tactics by the police” and with the “core elements” of the new social media and intermediary guidelines. The statement prompted a backlash from the Centre which called the remarks an “attempt to dictate its terms”.The exchange represents a snowballing controversy over new guidelines that direct companies such Twitter, WhatsAapp and Facebook to regulate content, appoint officers who will be liable for compliance, and adopt features such as traceability of messages and voluntary user verification.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/google-facebook-and-whatsapp-submitdetails-of-new-compliance-officers-101622227164551.html
29-05-2021||India||Doctor couple shot dead in Rajasthan||A doctor couple travelling in their car in Bharatpur’s’Neemda Gate area were shot dead by two motorcycle-borne assailants on Friday, said police The accused are on the run, they added.Bharatpur circle officer (city) Satish Verma said the police are trying to identify the accused based on the CCTV footage, captured by a traffic camera in the area. “They [the doctor couple] were going to some place from their hospital when the incident took place. We will arrest the accused very soon,” he said.In a 38-second video shared on social media, Dr Sudeep can be seen slowing down his vehicle near an intersection when the two men blocked their vehicle. As soon as the doctor rolled down his window, one of the accused pulled out his weapon and started firing.Police said the first shot appeared to hit Dr Sudeep in the head. Later they shot his wife as well. Both died on the spot.The accused, then, left on the motorcycle, the police added.The couple was arrested in 2019 and was out on bail in a case relating to the murder of a 25-year-old woman Deepa Devi and her six-year-old son. Police had said Deepa had an affair with Dr Sudeep. Initially, Dr Seema was arrested for the double murder but later Dr Sudeep was also arrested for conspiracy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doctor-couple-shot-dead-in-rajasthan-101622227164034.html
29-05-2021||India||Covaxin efficacy 78% in Phase 3 analysis||Covaxin, the coronavirus vaccine made by Bharat Biotech, has shown an efficacy of 78% in preventing symptomatic Covid-19 in the final phase 3 analysis, people familiar with the development said, adding that the vaccine maker is likely to announce the results in the beginning of June.The comments come at a time when the vaccine maker has applied for approval from the World Health Organization, although it is yet to release any data from the phase 3 trials. The data will also need to undergo a peer review.“The first interim efficacy analysis showed vaccine efficacy of nearly 81%, and the second interim analysis showed it to be about 78%. The final analysis was done at 130 confirmed case and it was found to be 78%,” said Dr Sanjay Rai, professor, community medicine department, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi.“The interim analysis may be over, the analysed data needs to be peer-reviewed and published in a medical journal now,” added Rai, who is also the principal investigator of the study site at AIIMS.The developments were also confirmed by an official concerned in the central government, aware of the matter.“We have been made to understand that the interim analysis results for Covaxin phase 3 trials are almost done, and they are in the process of publishing the data,” the official said on condition of anonymity.Scientists typically analyse vaccine efficacy at multiple, preset intervals -- known as endpoints. The first endpoint for Covaxin was when 43 cases were recorded, at which point the details of these individuals was unblinded. The result, announced in March, showed that 36 of these cases were in the placebo group while the rest, 7, were in the group given the vaccine, pointing to an efficacy estimate of 80.6%.The second interim analysis result was released in April based on 87 symptomatic cases of Covid-19, and it showed that the efficacy against severe Covid-19 disease was 100%, with an impact on reduction in hospitalizations.The full analysis is yet to be released, either a pre-print or as a peer-reviewed document.While Bharat Biotech did not comment on the final analysis results, it did announce last month that the safety and efficacy results from the final analysis will be available in June, and the final report will be submitted to a peer-reviewed publication.Experts, however, say the data should be put in public domain so that those experts in the field also get a chance to scrutinize it.“Trial data should ideally be published in peer-reviewed top medical journal so that those people who are not a part of the clinical trial can study it, question it and cross-check the legitimacy of the trial,” said CM Gulhati, editor, Monthly Index of Medical Specialities (MIMS), pharmaceutical reference guide.The phase 3 study enrolled 25,800 participants between 18-98 years of age, including 10% over the age of 60, with analysis conducted 14 days post second dose. Covaxin was developed with seed strains received from the National Institute of Virology under the Indian Council of Medical Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covaxin-efficacy-78-in-phase-3-analysis-101622227104005.html
29-05-2021||India||Takes four months to get Covid-19 vaccine out for use: Bharat Biotech||The mystery over Bharat Biotech’s capacity was resolved on Friday with the company releasing a statement that there was a four-month lag between manufacturing and use, which meant that doses made in March would get used only in June, and those manufactured in April, in July.Bharat Biotech has supplied 20 million doses of its Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin, to the Union government for roll-out in the national immunisation programme, the company added.“Production scale-up of vaccines is a step-by-step process, involving several regulatory standard operating procedures of good manufacturing practices. There is a four-month lag time for Covaxin to translate into actual vaccination,” the company said on Friday after an article in The Times of India pointed out that there seemed to be a huge gap between the company’s reported monthly capacity and the doses supplied.For instance, in March, according to information in the public domain, the company produced 15 million doses; and in April, 20 million. Yet, only 20 million doses in all have been supplied to the government, and many states say there is a shortage of Covaxin.The company did not divulge the number of doses supplied to the Centre in May, saying that it can’t share month on month data.“The manufacturing, testing, release and distribution of vaccines is a complex and multi-factorial process with hundreds of steps, requiring a diverse pool of human resources. For vaccines to result in actual vaccination of people, highly coordinated efforts are required from international supply chain, manufacturers, regulators and State and Central government agencies,” it said.Based on Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation guidelines, all vaccines have to be submitted for testing and release to the Central Drugs Laboratory. Once cleared, they are despatched to the depots of the state governments and the Centre. That process takes only two days, the company’s statement said.According to the Centre’s Co-WIN platform, of the total of nearly 204 million Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country since January 16, about 20 million (2,21,07,737) are Covaxin.“The chaos is a result of the government having under estimated the vaccine demand, and overestimated the production capacity of its manufacturers,” said Dr Chandrakant Lahariya, senior public health and vaccine expert.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/takes-four-months-to-get-vaccine-out-for-use-bharat-biotech-101622227044058.html
29-05-2021||India||SC seeks national tally of kids orphaned by Covid||The Supreme Court on Friday sought nationwide information on children orphaned or missing since the pandemic began in March last year and directed the states to provide all basic amenities to them at the earliest.The vacation bench of justices L Nageswara Rao and Aniruddha Bose directed authorities to immediately take charge of such children and ensure food, ration, clothing, and shelter is provided to them without awaiting further directions.“The district authorities are directed to upload information of children who became orphans after March 2020 on the portal,” the bench said.The direction came in suo motu proceedings whereby several orders have already been issued from time to time to protect children lodged in child care institutions during the pandemic.Amicus curiae and Supreme Court lawyer Gaurav Agrawal, assisting the court in the matter, highlighted the emerging problem of children orphaned during the pandemic and the need to provide them food, ration, shelter and clothing. Some of these children may have lost guardians (having already lost parents) or the sole earning member in the family, making them vulnerable, he said. Agrawal suggested that children in such families were likely to have gone missing, trafficked (especially girls) or engaged in child labour.Also read| Covid-19: Delhi’s gradual unlock to start from MondayAdditional solicitor general Aishwarya Bhati informed the court that under the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, there is a requirement to identify not just orphans but even those who are abandoned or seemingly abandoned. The law requires such children to be produced within 24 hours before the Child Welfare Committee. Considering the difficulty to physically present the children, the Centre has allowed virtual production of such children. ASG Bhati said that one child care institution in each district has to be earmarked for such children who are abandoned or in need of care and protection.The bench said, “We want you (the Centre) to tell us the facts and figures of the havoc caused by the Covid-19 pandemic creating a situation of so many orphans. We also wish to know the steps taken by authorities under the various provisions of law.”In addition to the information uploaded on the NCPCR website, the court directed the states to gather data from their respective child welfare departments on the number of children who are missing and steps taken to identify and rehabilitate them.Agrawal also requested the court to pass directions to safeguard the property, assets or houses left by deceased parents/guardians that otherwise belonged to the children orphaned during the pandemic but was open to misuse by relatives or other family members. This aspect would be dealt with by the court in the next hearing.Also read: India joins global push for Covid origin probeThe court said, “We are of the opinion that the Centre and states should get the latest information of children who have become orphans, whether it be due to the pandemic or otherwise, and steps taken for attending to their basic needs.” This information will be shared by Sunday evening with the amicus curiae, who was requested to prepare a chart showing nationwide data.NCPCR counsel Swarupama Chaturvedi informed the court that all district child protection units have been given the password to access the portal “Bal Swaraj”. The child rights body sought permission to file an affidavit to bring these facts on record. The court directed the states to take this matter up on priority as it said, “I hope you (states) understand the agony of children on streets. Days are passing with children going hungry without food.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-seeks-national-tally-of-kids-orphaned-by-covid-101622226984002.html
29-05-2021||India||‘We’ve been reduced to a mockery’: Judge in letter to acting CJ||Calcutta high court judge Arindam Sinha has purportedly written a letter to acting chief justice Rajesh Bindal and 29 other judges of the court, saying the law was not followed when the transfer plea filed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in the Narada case was listed before a division bench as a writ petition. He has also raised objection to several procedural matters, describing it as “mockery”.Dated May 24, a copy of the document surfaced in the public domain on Friday morning, hours before the division bench of five judges granted conditional bail to the four high-profile accused. Several senior lawyers of the court told HT that such a letter, purportedly written by a sitting judge, is unprecedented. HT saw a copy of the letter but could not independently verify its authenticity. The judge could not be reached.“The appellate side rules require a motion seeking transfer, either on the civil or criminal side, to be heard by a single judge. However, the first division bench took up the matter treating it to be a writ petition,” the letter says. “Even a writ petition under Article 228 of the Constitution should have gone to the learned single judge having determination. The communication could not have been treated as such a writ petition simply because no substantial question of law as to interpretation of the Constitution has been raised, as not recorded in order dated May 17, 2021, nor the subsequently filed application,” the letter says.“The mob factor may be a ground on merits, for adjudication of the motion, but could the first division bench have taken it up and continue to hear it as a writ question, is the first question,” the letter says. “By operation of interim order dated May 17, the accused persons continued to be in custody (jail) though they had obtained bail from designated court. When, on intervention of the high court, said persons were deprived liberty, there was no application on the record of this court, since the communication was not supported by affidavit,” the letter says, referring to the bail granted by the special CBI court hours after the arrest. The CBI moved the bench of the chief justice, challenging that order. The two-judge bench passed a stay order. “Whether the HC exercising power in the matter of transfer of a criminal case, at that stage on its own initiative, could have passed the order of stay, is the second question,” the letter says.“On May 19, members of the first division bench passed separate orders expressing their divergent views. It appears, the presiding learned judge’s view followed view expressed by the junior learned judge. While the first view was grant of interim bail, view of the presiding learned judge prevailed as an interim measure, to become order dated May 21, 2021,” the letter says. It adds, “The HC must get its act together. Our conduct is unbecoming of the majesty the HC commands. We have been reduced to a mockery. I am requesting all of us to salvage the situation by taking steps for the purpose of reaffirming sanctity of our Rules and unwritten code of conduct.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/weve-been-reduced-to-a-mockery-calcutta-hc-judge-to-acting-chief-justice-101622226504587.html
29-05-2021||India||Setback for India as Caribbean court stays Choksi deportation||A Caribbean court restrained Dominican authorities from removing fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi from the island nation until further orders, dealing a temporary setback to India’s efforts to repatriate him and make him stand trial in a ₹13,578 crore fraud case.Indian-born Choksi mysteriously disappeared from Antigua and Barbuda, whose citizenship he holds, on Sunday night, but was detained by Dominican police on Tuesday night on charges of illegally entering the island. The two islands are roughly 100 nautical miles apart.His lawyers alleged that Indian and Antiguan officials abducted the businessman but Antigua & Barbuda’s commissioner of police Atlee Patrick Rodney denied the charge on Friday.“We have no information or indication that Mehul Choksi was forcefully removed from Antigua. Only assertion we are hearing is from the attorney [of Mehul Choksi] and Dominica police is not confirming that story,” Rodney said in a local media interview. “We have no involvement in his movement from Antigua to Dominica, or wherever he left,” he added.Asked if he had information on how Choksi reached Dominica, Rodney said he received initial reports that the businessman travelled by boat.Indian officials are in touch with their counterparts in Dominica to make an attempt to bring him back through the deportation route, because India has no extradition arrangements with the Carribean country, people tracking developments said in Delhi. But those efforts suffered a temporary setback after the Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court agreed to hear a habeas corpus petition by Choksi’s lawyers, and ordered that he should not be removed from the country until further orders.Choksi’s legal team has asked the court that he should be released from police custody in Roseau immediately and allowed to stay in a hotel.Choksi’s lawyers – Wayne Marsh in Dominica and Vijay Aggarwal in New Delhi -- have argued that he is an Antiguan citizen and can be repatriated only there. The hearing was adjourned late on Friday to June 2. Choksi will be quarantined and administered a Covid-19 test, the court ordered.Antigua’s Prime Minister Gaston Browne told reporters on Thursday that he requested Dominica to declare Choksi persona non grata and send him to India instead of Antigua & Barbuda, where he has legal and constitution protection as a citizen. “We asked them (Dominica) not to repatriate him to Antigua. He needs to return to India where he can face the criminal charges leveled against him”, Browne told journalists. Browne added that Choksi had made a monumental error by fleeing to Dominica.Dominica has indicated that he will be sent back to Antigua after ascertaining all the facts. The acting police chief , Lincoln Corbette, said on Thursday that he will be sent to Antigua.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/setback-for-india-as-carribean-court-stays-choksi-deportation-101622226503936.html
29-05-2021||India||Delhi issues global tender for 10 million Covid vaccine doses; invites bids till June 7||The Delhi government has issued its first global tender for 10 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines and will accept bids till June 7, according to documents seen by HT.A vaccine maker interested in supplying to the Capital will need to commit to begin deliveries in tranches within 45 days of a contract being signed, among several conditions that the tender document lays down.Also read: Need God’s intervention, says Meghalaya health minister on surge in Covid casesSeveral states, such as Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh, have floated tenders to procure vaccines. Several prominent vaccine makers, including Pfizer and Moderna, have said that they have a policy to enter into agreements only with national governments and multilateral initiatives, putting a cloud over states’ attempts to procure doses directly from foreign manufacturers.“Health and family welfare department, government of NCT of Delhi intends to procure Covid-19 vaccine on urgent basis and accordingly issues this Global Expression of Interest (EOI) soliciting techno-commercial proposals from the International Manufacturers of Covid-19 vaccines or their Authorized Agents or from direct Importers with appropriate license, to import the Covid-19 vaccine in India.“A bidder may submit its techno-commercial proposal to the Central Procurement Agency, Director General Health Services, Government of NCT of Delhi… by 5 pm of June 7,” said the document, issued on May 27.The document added that companies from any country can supply to Delhi unless they share borders with India, a condition that effectively keeps out Chinese vaccines.Also read: Covaxin efficacy 78% in Phase 3 analysisAccording to Union government rules, which the EOI cites as necessary to follow, vaccines approved by western health regulators, Japan’s drugs agency and the World Health Organization will have an accelerated clinical approval process. China’s Sinopharm vaccine fit this criteria prior to the neighbouring nations bar being put in. The EOIs of other states, too, have this condition.Another set of documents, seen by HT, showed that the Delhi Cabinet, chaired by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, on May 21 gave approval to the cabinet note containing the proposal regarding “procurement (of) Covid-19 vaccines through global EOI for vaccination of the eligible beneficiaries in Delhi”.According to government data shared with the Centre, 5.2 million doses have been administered in Delhi since the inoculation exercise started on January 16, with the maximum 634,000 getting it in the northwest district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-issues-global-tender-for-10-million-covid-vaccine-doses-101622226204011.html
29-05-2021||India||Central Vista revamp to have space to park 16,000 cars||The new parliament complex and buildings that are being built as part of the Central Vista redevelopment project will have parking for at least 16,000 cars, and while that may mean a likely increase in traffic volume in the area, enough mitigation measures will be put in place to ensure there is no congestion or impact on traffic movement, the architectural consultant for the project said.According to details provided by the Central Public Works Department (CPWD), which is executing the project, to the Expert Appraisal Committee of the environment ministry, parking space for 14,095 vehicles will be provided in the common central secretariat buildings, central conference centre, SPG building and the residences of the prime minister and the vice president. Of the 14,095 parking slots, 13,719 will be in the common central secretariat buildings and the conference centre.In addition to this, designated parking space will be developed along Central Vista avenue for over 1000 cars and about 30 buses, according to the consultant (HCP Design, Planning and Management Private Limited). Currently, the area can accommodate up to 600 cars. As per the information provided by HCP, the new Parliament building and proposed MP chambers will have surface and basement parking for close to 900 vehicles.The exact number of existing parking spaces in the area, which houses multiple government buildings isn’t known.Once the project is complete, the employee population, which is currently around 57,000, in the area is expected to increase by 10-15%. In an email response to HT’s query, HCP said, “The increase in employee population is expected to be between 10-15%, as people essential for the functioning of the Government of India will be brought here as all ministries will be consolidated in the Central Secretariat.” But around 9000 people, currently operating from offices behind North Block and South Block will be moved to offices outside the Central Vista area.Also read | Labourers at Central Vista project follow Covid protocols: Centre tells Delhi HCThe project, civil society members say, will add to existing traffic congestion. According to Delhi traffic police, the traffic volume (pre-pandemic) at C-hexagon at India Gate is around 5,500 passenger car units per hour during rush hours. The C-hexagon sees a high volume of traffic as it is one of the crucial roads providing north-south connectivity. The average traffic speed is 40-45kmph (before the pandemic).Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher, Centre for Policy Research said: “The social and environmental footprint of the Central Vista redevelopment just got wider and more harmful. The traffic analysis of the redevelopment projects increased traffic which will result in congestion.”Civil society members argued that the government should put the traffic impact assessment in the public domain. Anuj Srivastava, spokesperson of LokPATH (people for Appropriate Transformation of Habitat), a collective of urban development experts and civic society members said: “The details about the entire project including traffic impact assessment should be put in the public domain….If the number as they say is 14,000 parking spaces, what are the building bye laws that they are following and who has scrutinised and sanctioned these numbers. CPWD has split the project into different components so that these assessments escape public and statutory scrutiny.”CPWD officials said that detailed studies have been done for traffic improvement and measures have been planned to ensure that the traffic on main roads is not affected.A senior CPWD official said: “We have carried out detailed studies and submitted our proposal for traffic improvement to Unified Traffic and Transportation Infrastructure (Planning & Engineering) Centre (UTTIPEC), which is the apex body that approves all transportation and traffic-related projects in Delhi. However, we will be providing service roads near the entrance/exits of the buildings to make traffic flow smooth without affecting traffic on main roads. We are also providing Automated People Mover/light metro which will encourage people to use public transport and reduce vehicular traffic.”Also read: Lack of labour slows office complex work in Central Vista projectAsking not to be identified, this person added: “Further, by constructing Common Central Secretariat building, we are not increasing the number of officials in the Central Vista area as a whole because the number of officials moving out of Central Vista hutments from A&B block, L&M block are more or less equal to the number of ministry people coming into the Central Vista. Moreover, more parking space inside buildings itself will reduce vehicles presently being parked on roads in absence of inadequate parking space inside buildings.”HCP, in an email response, added that mitigation strategies have been worked out after a detailed traffic impact assessment, to ensure that there is no impact on traffic movement in and around the area. Delhi Traffic police officials also said that the new constructions will not have much impact on the movement of existing traffic.“One of the main reasons for congestion at C-hexagon, especially in front of India Gate, was the haphazard movement of pedestrians. Now, subways are being constructed for pedestrian movement. The road infrastructure will also be augmented, so there is not going to be much impact on vehicular movement,” said a senior traffic police official who asked not to be named.The consultant in its response also said that the metro usage is expected to increase by 2-5%. The proposed people mover, a dedicated transit system connecting all the 10 common central secretariat buildings, will be connected to Delhi Metro Rail Corporation’s network at the Central Secretariat metro station.Also read: PM house in new Central Vista given green clearanceThe people mover will be able to ferry 20,000 people during peak hours, keeping much of the movement between the buildings underground, and also making it easy for commuters to transit to their offices from metro stations.The existing network of roads in the area will be widened to accommodate the increase in traffic, HCP said in its response. Dedicated subterranean routes for VIP movement, better pedestrian and non-motorised transport connectivity, shuttle services connecting all key buildings, efficient ingress and egress to Common Central Secretariat plots to ensure minimum impact on thorough traffic along the Rajpath are among the several proposed measures to minimise the impact in traffic movement, as per HCP.Kohli said, “The government proposes to offset this by carrying out additional road expansion and improvements over the next 10 years (as per the traffic assessment). One can expect major roads connecting to Central Vista being dug up or cordoned off during this time. These access roads are going to be securitised to facilitate VIP movement at the cost of public access.”Transport experts say the influence area for analysing traffic impact should be beyond the abutting roads. Amit Bhatt, director of transport, WRI India, said that the influence area for a project of this scale should include major closest arterial roads, which could mean a radius of one kilometre, including the C-hexagon that is used mainly by vehicular traffic moving from north to south of the city.“To ensure that there is not much impact on traffic in the area due to the new constructions, the mitigation strategies should be planned for an influence area. The emphasis should be to encourage most government employees and visitors to use public transport (metro or bus). Another important measure which can help in addressing the issue of congestion, especially during peak hours, is staggering of office timings.”Experts say that there is a need for a comprehensive traffic movement plan for the area. Sewa Ram, professor of transport planning at the School of Planning and Architecture, said, “There won’t be a problem in traffic due to the new buildings planned at Central Vista. There is a need to make a comprehensive circulation plan in such a way that the Central Vista-destined traffic is isolated completely from the rest of the traffic movement. This traffic should move externally so that there is no conflict with vista-bound traffic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-vista-redevelopment-to-create-parking-for-16-000-cars-101622226143947.html
29-05-2021||India||Dowry death cases: SC takes note of ‘casual’ approach by trial courts||The Supreme Court on Friday noted with grave concern the “casual” approach adopted by trial courts in recording statements of accused in cases related to dowry deaths, and passed a slew of directions necessary to give full meaning to rights of accused and prosecution during trial.Dowry death is punishable under Section 304B of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and carries a sentence that can range from seven years to life term. This provision presumes that the death of any woman within seven years of marriage caused by any burns or bodily injury or otherwise than normal circumstances shall be presumed to be a case of dowry death provided there is evidence that she was subjected to cruelty by husband and his family members “soon before” her death.“It is a matter of grave concern that often trial courts record the statement of an accused under Section 313 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) in a very casual and cursory manner,” a bench of Chief Justice of India (CJI) N V Ramana, Justices Surya Kant and Anirudhha Bose noted.The bench directed the trial judges that while deciding upon such cases, the prosecution produces incriminating material against the accused and seek their defence at the initial stage of trial. If the trial court is of the view that the charge is not made out, an order of acquittal can be passed at that stage.The bench also took note of the words “soon before” in Section 304B of IPC and told trial courts not to adopt a strict interpretation of the words as what is needed to establish is a “proximate and live link” between the cruelty and consequential death of the victim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-takes-note-of-casual-approach-by-trial-courts-in-dowry-death-cases-101622226024665.html
29-05-2021||India||Delhi broke a weather record every month since August 2020, shows data||Every month since August 2020, Delhi has broken at least one weather record, India Meteorological Department (IMD) data shows. Met officials and scientists said that while these extreme weather recordings are the immediate result of temporary atmospheric events over (and in and around) the national capital, the larger role of the climate crisis in the overall shifting of weather patterns is evident.In August 2020, the city recorded 236.5mm rainfall, the highest for the month since 2013. Met officials also observed that 50% of the total rainfall fell in just two days of precipitation, August 13 (68.2mm) and August 20 (54.8mm).In September, Delhi went on to record the warmest month in almost two decades. The Capital’s average maximum temperature that month was 36.2 degrees Celsius, breaking the previous record of 36.1 degrees Celsius in 2015. The last time Delhi recorded higher average maximum temperature in September was in 2001, when the mercury soared to 36.3 degrees Celsius.In October and November, the scenario was the opposite. They were colder.In October, Delhi broke a 58-year-old record, clocking a mean minimum temperature of just 17.2 degrees Celsius. November broke an even older record, with the month’s mean minimum temperature dropping to 10.2 degrees Celsius, a level last seen in 1949. The mean minimum temperature of November was lower only in 1938 before that, at 9.6 degrees Celsius.This trend of colder than usual record continued in the months of December and January as well, with December witnessing eight so-called cold wave days, the highest since 1965. January recorded the highest number of cold wave days since 2008 (at seven days) and also broke the record for the highest rainfall for the month in 21 years (56.6mm).IMD’s criteria for a cold wave in the plains is that the minimum temperature should be 10 degrees or lower, and the departure from normal minimum temperature 4.5 degrees or less for two consecutive days.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said that these extreme weather recordings between October and January were the immediate impact of fewer western disturbances passing over Delhi.Western disturbances are cyclonic storms originating over the Mediterranean that affect weather in north-west and north India.“Last winter, we recorded lower than usual temperatures because of fewer western disturbance activities in the region. Usually, in the months of October, November, December and January, we get around five to six active western disturbances each month; last year we only got two to three.” Srivastava said.He added: “A western disturbance results in cloud formation over a region, which traps heat during the day and helps increase night time temperatures. In the absence of these clouds, what we saw this winter was that heat was not getting trapped and Delhi was recording lower than normal temperatures.”Also read: Delhi issues global tender for 10 million Covid vaccine doses; invites bids till June 7Then, in February the weather conditions changed again. This February was the second warmest in 120 years, with the mean maximum temperature in the month touching 27.9 degrees Celsius, falling marginally short of the all-time record of 29.7 degrees Celsius in 2006.March recorded the hottest day in 76 years, with the mercury levels touching 40.1 degrees Celsius on March 29.After a sweltering February and March, in April the conditions changed again and the lowest minimum temperature in at least a decade was recorded on April 4, at 11.7 degrees Celsius.May broke several historic records, according to IMD. Under the impact of cyclonic storm Tauktae, Delhi on May 19-20 broke the record for the highest single-day rainfall for the month ever, with 119.3mm of precipitation. This also pushed the month’s rainfall in the city to 144.8—the second highest in the month since 2008.The gusty winds and the intense showers also successfully brought the temperatures down, breaking the record of the lowest maximum temperature ever.While acknowledging the role of temporary weather conditions that led to these extreme recordings, weathermen said the trend of extreme weather has been especially evident in the region over the past three years. The role of the climate crisis is clear, they added.Mahesh Palawat, vice-president of Skymet weather services, said that such extreme weather conditions are not just specific to Delhi but also being observed in several other parts of the country. As for Delhi, May is usually marked by extreme dry heat and high temperatures, he added -- and this year it hasn’t seen a single heat wave day, another record.Meteorologists declare a heatwave when the maximum temperature for a location in the plains crosses 40 degrees Celsius.In the hills, the threshold temperature is 30 degrees Celsius. Also, when the departure in the maximum day temperature is 4.5 degrees to 6.5 degrees above normal, a heatwave is declared.“Many all-time records are being broken in many parts of India in the last two to three years. We are seeing that extreme weather events are increasing. Over the last three years, we have also been noticing that the intensity of cyclones that are hitting the coasts of India is also increasing. All this is also an impact of the climate crisis, ” Palawat added.Also read | ‘India is infamous’: Nath stokes new row with remarkAP Dimri from the School of Environmental Sciences, Jawaharlal Nehru University, agreed that such extreme weather is a clear impact of the climate crisis at play.“Imagine your free atmosphere as a sponge that soaks up water. In an ideal situation, it will release water uniformly when its capacity is saturated. Under the impact of global warming, pressure is created at one point, which causes extreme weather conditions in one area; exactly like a sponge would squeeze out water under pressure. This month is a typical example of how weather patterns as we understand are changing. Delhi in May usually records at least a few days of temperatures reaching 40 degrees or above, but this time except for one or two days the temperature has not spiked. Increased warming of the land and of the seas is also altering weather patterns,” Dimri explained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-broke-a-weather-record-every-month-since-august-2020-shows-data-101622226024014.html
29-05-2021||India||HC: No stay on Amnesty’s proceedings||The Delhi high court on Friday refused to stay the proceedings against Amnesty International with regard to confirming the provisional attachment order (PAO) in connection with an alleged Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) violation. The human rights organisation approached the court on Thursday, against continuation of the freeze on its bank accounts and properties.Justice Rekha Palli, however, said any final order passed in the matter by the adjudicating authority under Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) will not be implemented without leave of the court.The Enforcement Directorate (ED) is investigating a money laundering case, registered on the basis of a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) FIR against Amnesty International India Private Limited (AIIPL), Indians for Amnesty International Trust (IAIT), Amnesty International India Foundation Trust (AIIFT) and Amnesty International South Asia Foundation (AISAF). The FIR was filed under various sections of the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) and section 120 B of the Indian Penal Code, which denotes criminal conspiracy.The court on Friday also issued notice to the ED and sought its stand on the NGO’s plea. Amnesty has argued that the provisional attachment order (PAO) issued on November 26 last year was valid for only 180 days and it expired on May 25. The human rights organisation said the order has lapsed since it was not confirmed by the adjudicating authority set up under the PMLA.Under the PMLA, a PAO has to be confirmed within 180 days by the adjudicating authority.Centre’s counsel Amit Mahajan, appearing for the ED, opposed the petition and said that the division bench has stayed a ruling of the single judge in connection with 180 days deadline for a PAO.In its petition, Amnesty International said that despite the matter being concluded on May 25 after detailed arguments by them, they received notice/ direction from the adjudicating authority fixing a fresh date of hearing on May 28.The matter will now be heard on September 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-refuses-to-stay-proceedings-against-amnesty-in-fcra-case-101622225784027.html
29-05-2021||India||India joins global push for Covid origin probe||India on Friday backed calls for further investigation into the origin of Covid-19, and sought the cooperation of China and other parties for such studies, days after US President Joe Biden gave intelligence agencies 90 days to submit a fresh report at a time when scientists are seeking deeper examination of a theory that the virus may have originated in a lab.Biden’s directive to the US intelligence community to redouble their efforts to collect information to facilitate a definitive conclusion on the origin of Sars-CoV-2 has angered China, which said on Thursday that the US is playing politics. The country, where the virus was first detected in late 2019, again dismissed the theory that it could have leaked from a laboratory in Wuhan, ground zero of the pandemic.External affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said that a World Health Organization (WHO)-led study into a virus’s origin was an “important first step”, and more studies were needed to reach “robust conclusions”.“WHO convened global study on the origin of Covid-19 is an important first step. It stressed the need for next phase studies as also for further data and studies to reach robust conclusions,” Bagchi said in a statement. Without naming China, he added, “The follow up of the WHO report and further studies deserve the understanding and cooperation of all.”This week, multiple news reports have spoken of several angles the American intelligence is looking at to establish where the virus came from. On Thursday, the New York Times reported that Biden’s directions to the intelligence agencies came on the basis of yet-to-be examined evidence that requires computer analysis. Citing people aware of the situation, the report said that this evidence could include databases of Chinese communications, movement of lab workers and the pattern of the outbreak of Covid-19 in and around Wuhan.On May 23, a report by the Wall Street Journal cited current and former officials to describe intelligence reports that determined that three researchers from the Wuhan Institute of Virology became sick with flu-like symptoms in November 2019.The report notes that while this in itself was not enough to link to a lab leak, the timing and the number of people who fell sick and their ties to the lab plugs into several circumstantial clues that strengthen the theory.A WHO-led team, which spent four weeks in and around Wuhan in January and February, said in a report issued in late March that the virus had probably been transmitted from bats to humans through another animal, and that “introduction through a laboratory incident was considered to be an extremely unlikely pathway”.But, at the same time, WHO director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said the team “expressed the difficulties they encountered in accessing raw data” relating to the outbreak at the Wuhan wet market and that the they had not been able to carry out adequate assessment of the lab leak possibility. “Further data and studies will be needed to reach more robust conclusions,” he said at the time.WHO is currently reviewing the recommendations in this report to prepare a proposal for the director-general on the next studies to be carried out.Keep lab theory on tableThe scientific community has been divided over what to make of the virus’s origin clues till now. In early May, science writer Nicholas Wade cited existing research to support the need to keep the lab leak theory on the table.Wade included several arguments: One, if the virus was naturally found in the famous horseshoe bats of Yunnan, how, or whether at all, did it travel to Wuhan, at least 1,500km away; two, how the Sars-CoV-2 virus appeared to have come fully evolved to optimally target humans, unlike the Sars-CoV virus, responsible for South Asia Respiratory Syndrome, that evolved over time; and three – a unique protein folding known as the furin cleavage site in this virus, which has not been found in other betacoronaviruses.Some scientists have disputed the biological inferences being drawn, particularly in the context of the furin cleavage site. “FCSs (furin cleavage sites) are abundant, including being highly prevalent in coronaviruses. While SARS-CoV-2 is the first example of a SARS virus with an FCS, other betacoronaviruses (the genus for SARS-CoV-2) have FCSs, including MERS and HKU1,” wrote immunologist and infectious disease genomics specialist at Scripps Research Institute, Kristian G Andersen, in a tweet on May 10.The questions about what clues China may hold are further strengthened by the lack of a resurgence in cases in the country. A country with the world’s highest population, China has recorded no new wave of infections since when the outbreak began.It recorded 7,280 new cases at its peak, on February 14, 2020, and the only time infections rose again in any significant manner was in mid January, 2021, when the 7-day average of new cases was a little under 2,000 for a few days.Need definitive conclusionIn March, Biden tasked the US intelligence community to prepare a report on the origin of Covid-19, including whether it emerged from human contact with an infected animal or from a “laboratory accident”.Biden said on Wednesday that he had received the report earlier this month, and asked for an additional follow-up as the intelligence community had “coalesced around two likely scenarios” but hadn’t reached a definitive conclusion.Biden asked the intelligence community to “redouble their efforts to collect and analyse information that could bring us closer to a definitive conclusion, and to report back to me in 90 days”.As part of this follow up, Biden outlined “areas of further inquiry that may be required, including specific questions for China”. He said the US will work with like-minded partners around the world to “press China to participate in a full, transparent, evidence-based international investigation and to provide access to all relevant data and evidence”.On Thursday, China’s foreign ministry responded to Biden’s move by saying the US was playing politics as the WHO study had concluded the “lab leak” theory was unlikely. Foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian also dismissed this theory as a conspiracy.“Some people in the US completely ignore facts and science,” Zhao said.China is known to deploy a strong infection suppression and tracking strategy, at times carrying out surge testing of cities full of millions of people within a period of days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-backs-calls-for-further-studies-into-origin-of-covid19-101622185632201.html
29-05-2021||India||At the United Nations, Delhi showcases its women power||Akanksha Arora is an Indo-Canadian auditor with the United Nations (UN) who has challenged the incumbent UN Secretary General for re-election later this year. Not even having the backing of her own country, the spunky Arora is unlikely to go far in her quest for the top job at the UN.But 2021 has been an extraordinarily good year for Indian women at the UN, with the appointment of Usha Rao Monari as the Associate Administrator of the UN Development Program in the rank of Under Secretary General. Several women from India have served at the UN Secretariat but none at the highest appointed position of Under-Secretary General. This is without doubt a singular achievement for Indian women in the UN system. Monari was earlier with the International Finance Corporation (IFC).Two other Indian women have moved to leadership positions at the UN in New York. Ligia Noronha heads the UN Environment Program’s New York office in the rank of Assistant Secretary General, and Preeti Sinha has taken over as the Head of the UN’s Capital Development Fund that deals with micro-finance.Also Read | How India’s water mission is overcoming the challenge in the NortheastThe role of Indian women was emblazoned on the UN stage when Hansa Mehta participated in the UN Conference on Human Rights in Paris in 1948 and ensured that these rights were gender neutral by amending the expression “all men are created equal” to “all human beings are created equal” in the Universal Declaration on Human Rights. She later served as the vice chairman of the Human Rights Commission of the UN in 1950.Thereafter, Vijay Lakshmi Pandit became the first woman President of the UN General Assembly (1953-54). This was, at that time, a truly remarkable achievement in a male dominated diplomatic world – for which India is justifiably proud. But not many know that she also led an “unofficial delegation” from India in San Francisco in 1945, when the UN conference took place, which laid the foundations of the organisation.Move on several decades. In 2009, after Hilary Clinton took over as Secretary of State, the United States dropped its opposition to creating a UN entity focussing on women. Resolution 64/289 creating UN-Women was adopted in the General Assembly on the afternoon of July 2, 2010. The session was presided over by India’s minister of state for external affairs, Preneet Kaur. India was one of the 27 Vice Presidents of the UNGA that year and had played a key role in negotiating the resolution. It is a matter of pride that Indian Foreign Service officer, Lakshmi Puri, became one of the first Deputy Executive Directors of UN Women to be followed by Anita Bhatia, from India, who had earlier been with IFC. Earlier, Geeta Rao Gupta had served as Deputy Executive Director of UNICEF.As one scans the horizon today, several other Indian women occupy prominent positions in other major multilateral organizations. Dr. Soumya Swaminathan is the Chief Scientist of the World Health Organization (WHO) leading the fight against COVID-19 while Dr. Neeru Chadha is a judge at the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea (ITLOS). Anshula Kant, formerly from State Bank of India, is one of the Managing Directors of the World Bank. And the IMF has two women from India in lead positions – Gita Gopinath, who, as its Chief Economist, is one of the Fund’s most prominent faces and Kalpana Kochar, who heads Human Resources.Incidentally, most Indian women at the top in the multilateral system today have strong Delhi connections. Soumya Swaminathan headed Indian Council of Medical Research, Ligia Noronha was for long with TERI, and Preeti Sinha ran the Yes Global Institute. But the real star is Delhi’s prestigious Lady Shriram College, the alma-mater of Usha Rao Monari, Anshula Kant and Gita Gopinath.Manjeev Singh Puri is a former Ambassador and Deputy Permanent Representative of India to the UNThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-the-united-nations-delhi-showcases-its-women-power-101622119920766.html
